Genesis1:1 IN THE beginning God (prepared, formed, fashioned, and) created the heavens and the earth. [Heb. 11:3.]" 
Genesis1:2 The earth was without form and an empty waste, and darkness was upon the face of the very great deep. The Spirit of God was moving (hovering, brooding) over the face of the waters." 
Genesis1:3 And God said, Let there be light; and there was light." 
Genesis1:4 And God saw that the light was good (suitable, pleasant) and He approved it; and God separated the light from the darkness. [II Cor. 4:6.]" 
Genesis1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, one day." 
Genesis1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament [the expanse of the sky] in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters [below] from the waters [above]." 
Genesis1:7 And God made the firmament [the expanse] and separated the waters which were under the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse. And it was so. 
Genesis1:8 And God called the firmament Heavens. And there was evening and there was morning, a second day." 
Genesis1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be collected into one place [of standing], and let the dry land appear. And it was so." 
Genesis1:10 God called the dry land Earth, and the accumulated waters He called Seas. And God saw that this was good (fitting, admirable) and He approved it." 
Genesis1:11 And God said, Let the earth put forth [tender] vegetation: plants yielding seed and fruit trees yielding fruit whose seed is in itself, each according to its kind, upon the earth. And it was so." 
Genesis1:12 The earth brought forth vegetation: plants yielding seed according to their own kinds and trees bearing fruit in which was their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good (suitable, admirable) and He approved it." 
Genesis1:13 And there was evening and there was morning, a third day." 
Genesis1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night, and let them be signs and tokens [of God's provident care], and [to mark] seasons, days, and years, [Gen. 8:22.]" 
Genesis1:15 And let them be lights in the expanse of the sky to give light upon the earth. And it was so. 
Genesis1:16 And God made the two great lights,the greater light (the sun) to rule the day and the lesser light (the moon) to rule the night. He also made the stars. 
Genesis1:17 And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth," 
Genesis1:18 To rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good (fitting, pleasant) and He approved it." 
Genesis1:19 And there was evening and there was morning, a fourth day." 
Genesis1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly and swarm with living creatures, and let birds fly over the earth in the open expanse of the heavens." 
Genesis1:21 God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves, which the waters brought forth abundantly, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good (suitable, admirable) and He approved it." 
Genesis1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the fowl multiply in the earth." 
Genesis1:23 And there was evening and there was morning, a fifth day." 
Genesis1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds: livestock, creeping things, and [wild] beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so." 
Genesis1:25 And God made the [wild] beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and domestic animals according to their kinds, and everything that creeps upon the earth according to its kind. And God saw that it was good (fitting, pleasant) and He approved it." 
Genesis1:26 God said, Let Us [Father, Son, and Holy Spirit] make mankind in Our image, after Our likeness, and let them have complete authority over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, the [tame] beasts, and over all of the earth, and over everything that creeps upon the earth. [Ps. 104:30; Heb. 1:2; 11:3.]" 
Genesis1:27 So God created man in His own image, in the image and likeness of God He created him; male and female He created them. [Col. 3:9, 10; James 3:8, 9.]" 
Genesis1:28 And God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it [using all its vast resources in the service of God and man]; and have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, and over every living creature that moves upon the earth." 
Genesis1:29 And God said, See, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the land and every tree with seed in its fruit; you shall have them for food." 
Genesis1:30 And to all the animals on the earth and to every bird of the air and to everything that creeps on the ground,to everything in which there is the breath of life,I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. 
Genesis1:31 And God saw everything that He had made, and behold, it was very good (suitable, pleasant) and He approved it completely. And there was evening and there was morning, a sixth day." 
Genesis2:1 THUS THE heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them." 
Genesis2:2 And on the seventh day God ended His work which He had done; and He rested on the seventh day from all His work which He had done. [Heb. 4:9, 10.]" 
Genesis2:3 And God blessed (spoke good of) the seventh day, set it apart as His own, and hallowed it, because on it God rested from all His work which He had created and done. [Exod. 20:11.]" 
Genesis2:4 This is the history of the heavens and of the earth when they were created. In the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, 
Genesis2:5 When no plant of the field was yet in the earth and no herb of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not [yet] caused it to rain upon the earth and there was no man to till the ground," 
Genesis2:6 But there went up a mist (fog, vapor) from the land and watered the whole surface of the ground," 
Genesis2:7 Then the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath or spirit of life, and man became a living being. [I Cor. 15:45-49.]" 
Genesis2:8 And the Lord God planted a garden toward the east, in Eden [delight]; and there He put the man whom He had formed (framed, constituted)." 
Genesis2:9 And out of the ground the Lord God made to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight or to be desired,good (suitable, pleasant) for food; the tree of life also in the center of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of [the difference between] good and evil and blessing and calamity. [Rev. 2:7; 22:14, 19.]" 
Genesis2:10 Now a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from there it divided and became four [river] heads. 
Genesis2:11 The first is named Pishon; it is the one flowing around the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold." 
Genesis2:12 The gold of that land is of high quality; bdellium (pearl?) and onyx stone are there. 
Genesis2:13 The second river is named Gihon; it is the one flowing around the whole land of Cush. 
Genesis2:14 The third river is named Hiddekel [the Tigris]; it is the one flowing east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. 
Genesis2:15 And the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend and guard and keep it. 
Genesis2:16 And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may freely eat of every tree of the garden;" 
Genesis2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and blessing and calamity you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die." 
Genesis2:18 Now the Lord God said, It is not good (sufficient, satisfactory) that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper meet (suitable, adapted, complementary) for him." 
Genesis2:19 And out of the ground the Lord God formed every [wild] beast and living creature of the field and every bird of the air and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them; and whatever Adam called every living creature, that was its name." 
Genesis2:20 And Adam gave names to all the livestock and to the birds of the air and to every [wild] beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found a helper meet (suitable, adapted, complementary) for him." 
Genesis2:21 And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam; and while he slept, He took one of his ribs or a part of his side and closed up the [place with] flesh." 
Genesis2:22 And the rib or part of his side which the Lord God had taken from the man He built up and made into a woman, and He brought her to the man." 
Genesis2:23 Then Adam said, This [creature] is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of a man." 
Genesis2:24 Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and shall become united and cleave to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. [Matt. 19:5; I Cor. 6:16; Eph. 5:31-33.]" 
Genesis2:25 And the man and his wife were both naked and were not embarrassed or ashamed in each other's presence. 
Genesis3:1 NOW THE serpent was more subtle and crafty than any living creature of the field which the Lord God had made. And he [Satan] said to the woman, Can it really be that God has said, You shall not eat from every tree of the garden? [Rev. 12:9-11.]" 
Genesis3:2 And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat the fruit from the trees of the garden," 
Genesis3:3 Except the fruit from the tree which is in the middle of the garden. God has said, You shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it, lest you die." 
Genesis3:4 But the serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die, [II Cor. 11:3.]" 
Genesis3:5 For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing the difference between good and evil and blessing and calamity." 
Genesis3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good (suitable, pleasant) for food and that it was delightful to look at, and a tree to be desired in order to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate; and she gave some also to her husband, and he ate." 
Genesis3:7 Then the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves apronlike girdles." 
Genesis3:8 And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden." 
Genesis3:9 But the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, Where are you?" 
Genesis3:10 He said, I heard the sound of You [walking] in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked; and I hid myself." 
Genesis3:11 And He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat?" 
Genesis3:12 And the man said, The woman whom You gave to be with me,she gave me [fruit] from the tree, and I ate." 
Genesis3:13 And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled (cheated, outwitted, and deceived) me, and I ate." 
Genesis3:14 And the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed above all [domestic] animals and above every [wild] living thing of the field; upon your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust [and what it contains] all the days of your life." 
Genesis3:15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her Offspring; He will bruise and tread your head underfoot, and you will lie in wait and bruise His heel. [Gal. 4:4.]" 
Genesis3:16 To the woman He said, I will greatly multiply your grief and your suffering in pregnancy and the pangs of childbearing; with spasms of distress you will bring forth children. Yet your desire and craving will be for your husband, and he will rule over you." 
Genesis3:17 And to Adam He said, Because you have listened and given heed to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat of it, the ground is under a curse because of you; in sorrow and toil shall you eat [of the fruits] of it all the days of your life." 
Genesis3:18 Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field." 
Genesis3:19 In the sweat of your face shall you eat bread until you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken; for dust you are and to dust you shall return." 
Genesis3:20 The man called his wife's name Eve [life spring], because she was the mother of all the living." 
Genesis3:21 For Adam also and for his wife the Lord God made long coats (tunics) of skins and clothed them. 
Genesis3:22 And the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of Us [the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit], to know [how to distinguish between] good and evil and blessing and calamity; and now, lest he put forth his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat, and live forever," 
Genesis3:23 Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden to till the ground from which he was taken. 
Genesis3:24 So [God] drove out the man; and He placed at the east of the Garden of Eden the cherubim and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep and guard the way to the tree of life. [Rev. 2:7; 22:2, 14, 19.]" 
Genesis4:1 AND ADAM knew Eve as his wife, and she became pregnant and bore Cain; and she said, I have gotten and gained a man with the help of the Lord." 
Genesis4:2 And [next] she gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground." 
Genesis4:3 And in the course of time Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground. 
Genesis4:4 And Abel brought of the firstborn of his flock and of the fat portions. And the Lord had respect and regard for Abel and for his offering, [Heb. 11:4.]" 
Genesis4:5 But for Cain and his offering He had no respect or regard. So Cain was exceedingly angry and indignant, and he looked sad and depressed." 
Genesis4:6 And the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why do you look sad and depressed and dejected?" 
Genesis4:7 If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin crouches at your door; its desire is for you, but you must master it." 
Genesis4:8 And Cain said to his brother, Let us go out to the field. And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. [I John 3:12.]" 
Genesis4:9 And the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper?" 
Genesis4:10 And [the Lord] said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to Me from the ground." 
Genesis4:11 And now you are cursed by reason of the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's [shed] blood from your hand." 
Genesis4:12 When you till the ground, it shall no longer yield to you its strength; you shall be a fugitive and a vagabond on the earth [in perpetual exile, a degraded outcast]." 
Genesis4:13 Then Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear." 
Genesis4:14 Behold, You have driven me out this day from the face of the land, and from Your face I will be hidden; and I will be a fugitive and a vagabond and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me." 
Genesis4:15 And the Lord said to him, Therefore, if anyone kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord set a mark or sign upon Cain, lest anyone finding him should kill him." 
Genesis4:16 So Cain went away from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod [wandering], east of Eden." 
Genesis4:17 And Cain's wife [one of Adam's offspring] became pregnant and bore Enoch; and Cain built a city and named it after his son Enoch. 
Genesis4:18 To Enoch was born Irad, and Irad was the father of Mehujael, and Mehujael the father of Methusael, and Methusael the father of Lamech." 
Genesis4:19 And Lamech took two wives; the name of the one was Adah and of the other was Zillah. 
Genesis4:20 Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and have cattle and purchase possessions. 
Genesis4:21 His brother's name was Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe. 
Genesis4:22 Zillah bore Tubal-cain; he was the forger of all [cutting] instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah. 
Genesis4:23 Lamech said to his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; you wives of Lamech, listen to what I say; for I have slain a man [merely] for wounding me, and a young man [only] for striking and bruising me." 
Genesis4:24 If Cain is avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech [will be avenged] seventy-sevenfold." 
Genesis4:25 And Adam's wife again became pregnant, and she bore a son and called his name Seth. For God, she said, has appointed for me another child instead of Abel, for Cain slew him." 
Genesis4:26 And to Seth also a son was born, whom he named Enosh. At that time men began to call [upon God] by the name of the Lord." 
Genesis5:1 THIS IS the book (the written record, the history) of the generations of the offspring of Adam. When God created man, He made him in the likeness of God." 
Genesis5:2 He created them male and female and blessed them and named them [both] Adam [Man] at the time they were created. 
Genesis5:3 When Adam had lived 130 years, he had a son in his own likeness, after his image; and he named him Seth." 
Genesis5:4 After he had Seth, Adam lived 800 years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis5:5 So altogether Adam lived 930 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:6 When Seth was 105 years old, Enosh was born." 
Genesis5:7 Seth lived after the birth of Enosh 807 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:8 So Seth lived 912 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:9 When Enosh was 90 years old, Kenan was born to him." 
Genesis5:10 Enosh lived after the birth of Kenan 815 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:11 So Enosh lived 905 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:12 When Kenan was 70 years old, Mahalalel was born." 
Genesis5:13 Kenan lived after the birth of Mahalalel 840 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:14 So Kenan lived 910 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:15 When Mahalalel was 65 years old, Jared was born." 
Genesis5:16 Mahalalel lived after the birth of Jared 830 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:17 So Mahalalel lived 895 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:18 When Jared was 162 years old, Enoch was born." 
Genesis5:19 Jared lived after the birth of Enoch 800 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:20 So Jared lived 962 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:21 When Enoch was 65 years old, Methuselah was born." 
Genesis5:22 Enoch walked [in habitual fellowship] with God after the birth of Methuselah 300 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:23 So all the days of Enoch were 365 years. 
Genesis5:24 And Enoch walked [in habitual fellowship] with God; and he was not, for God took him [home with Him]. [Heb. 11:5.]" 
Genesis5:25 When Methuselah was 187 years old, Lamech was born to him." 
Genesis5:26 Methuselah lived after the birth of Lamech 782 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:27 So Methuselah lived 969 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:28 When Lamech was 182 years old, a son was born." 
Genesis5:29 He named him Noah, saying, This one shall bring us relief and comfort from our work and the [grievous] toil of our hands due to the ground being cursed by the Lord." 
Genesis5:30 Lamech lived after the birth of Noah 595 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:31 So all the days of Lamech were 777 years, and he died." 
Genesis5:32 After Noah was 500 years old, he became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
Genesis6:1 WHEN MEN began to multiply on the face of the land and daughters were born to them," 
Genesis6:2 The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were fair, and they took wives of all they desired and chose." 
Genesis6:3 Then the Lord said, My Spirit shall not forever dwell and strive with man, for he also is flesh; but his days shall yet be 120 years." 
Genesis6:4 There were giants on the earth in those days,and also afterward,when the sons of God lived with the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown." 
Genesis6:5 The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination and intention of all human thinking was only evil continually." 
Genesis6:6 And the Lord regretted that He had made man on the earth, and He was grieved at heart." 
Genesis6:7 So the Lord said, I will destroy, blot out, and wipe away mankind, whom I have created from the face of the ground,not only man, [but] the beasts and the creeping things and the birds of the air,for it grieves Me and makes Me regretful that I have made them." 
Genesis6:8 But Noah found grace (favor) in the eyes of the Lord. 
Genesis6:9 This is the history of the generations of Noah. Noah was a just and righteous man, blameless in his [evil] generation; Noah walked [in habitual fellowship] with God." 
Genesis6:10 And Noah became the father of three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
Genesis6:11 The earth was depraved and putrid in God's sight, and the land was filled with violence (desecration, infringement, outrage, assault, and lust for power)." 
Genesis6:12 And God looked upon the world and saw how degenerate, debased, and vicious it was, for all humanity had corrupted their way upon the earth and lost their true direction." 
Genesis6:13 God said to Noah, I intend to make an end of all flesh, for through men the land is filled with violence; and behold, I will destroy them and the land." 
Genesis6:14 Make yourself an ark of gopher or cypress wood; make in it rooms (stalls, pens, coops, nests, cages, and compartments) and cover it inside and out with pitch (bitumen)." 
Genesis6:15 And this is the way you are to make it: the length of the ark shall be 300 cubits, its breadth 50 cubits, and its height 30 cubits [that is, 450 ft. x 75 ft. x 45 ft.]." 
Genesis6:16 You shall make a roof or window [a place for light] for the ark and finish it to a cubit [at least 18 inches] above,and the door of the ark you shall put in the side of it; and you shall make it with lower, second, and third stories." 
Genesis6:17 For behold, I, even I, will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy and make putrid all flesh under the heavens in which are the breath and spirit of life; everything that is on the land shall die." 
Genesis6:18 But I will establish My covenant (promise, pledge) with you, and you shall come into the ark,you and your sons and your wife and your sons' wives with you." 
Genesis6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh [found on land], you shall bring two of every sort into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female." 
Genesis6:20 Of fowls and birds according to their kinds, of beasts according to their kinds, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind,two of every sort shall come in with you, that they may be kept alive." 
Genesis6:21 Also take with you every sort of food that is eaten, and you shall collect and store it up, and it shall serve as food for you and for them." 
Genesis6:22 Noah did this; he did all that God commanded him. 
Genesis7:1 AND THE Lord said to Noah, Come with all your household into the ark, for I have seen you to be righteous (upright and in right standing) before Me in this generation. [Ps. 27:5; 33:18, 19; II Pet. 2:9.]" 
Genesis7:2 Of every clean beast you shall receive and take with you seven pairs, the male and his mate, and of beasts that are not clean a pair of each kind, the male and his mate, [Lev. 11.]" 
Genesis7:3 Also of the birds of the air seven pairs, the male and the female, to keep seed [their kind] alive over all the earth or land." 
Genesis7:4 For in seven days I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights, and every living substance and thing that I have made I will destroy, blot out, and wipe away from the face of the earth." 
Genesis7:5 And Noah did all that the Lord commanded him. [Heb. 11:7.] 
Genesis7:6 Noah was 600 years old when the flood of waters came upon the earth or land. 
Genesis7:7 And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him went into the ark because of the waters of the flood. [Matt. 24:38; Luke 17:27.] 
Genesis7:8 Of clean animals and of animals that are not clean, and of birds and fowls, and of everything that creeps on the ground," 
Genesis7:9 There went in two and two with Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah." 
Genesis7:10 And after the seven days the floodwaters came upon the earth or land. 
Genesis7:11 In the year 600 of Noah's life, in the seventeenth day of the second month, that same day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up and burst forth, and the windows and floodgates of the heavens were opened." 
Genesis7:12 And it rained upon the earth forty days and forty nights. 
Genesis7:13 On the very same day Noah and Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them, went into the ark," 
Genesis7:14 They and every [wild] beast according to its kind, all the livestock according to their kinds, every moving thing that creeps on the land according to its kind, and every fowl according to its kind, every winged thing of every sort." 
Genesis7:15 And they went into the ark with Noah, two and two of all flesh in which there were the breath and spirit of life." 
Genesis7:16 And they that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded [Noah]; and the Lord shut him in and closed [the door] round about him." 
Genesis7:17 The flood [that is, the downpour of rain] was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased and bore up the ark, and it was lifted [high] above the land." 
Genesis7:18 And the waters became mighty and increased greatly upon the land, and the ark went [gently floating] upon the surface of the waters." 
Genesis7:19 And the waters prevailed so exceedingly and were so mighty upon the earth that all the high hills under the whole sky were covered. 
Genesis7:20 [In fact] the waters became fifteen cubits higher, as the high hills were covered." 
Genesis7:21 And all flesh ceased to breathe that moved upon the earth,fowls and birds, [tame] animals, [wild] beasts, all swarming and creeping things that swarm and creep upon the land, and all mankind." 
Genesis7:22 Everything on the dry land in whose nostrils were the breath and spirit of life died. 
Genesis7:23 God destroyed (blotted out) every living thing that was upon the face of the earth; man and animals and the creeping things and the birds of the heavens were destroyed (blotted out) from the land. Only Noah remained alive, and those who were with him in the ark. [Matt. 24:37-44.]" 
Genesis7:24 And the waters prevailed [mightily] upon the earth or land 150 days (five months). 
Genesis8:1 AND GOD [earnestly] remembered Noah and every living thing and all the animals that were with him in the ark; and God made a wind blow over the land, and the waters sank down and abated." 
Genesis8:2 Also the fountains of the deep and the windows of the heavens were closed, the gushing rain from the sky was checked," 
Genesis8:3 And the waters receded from the land continually. At the end of 150 days the waters had diminished. 
Genesis8:4 On the seventeenth day of the seventh month the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat [in Armenia]. 
Genesis8:5 And the waters continued to diminish until the tenth month; on the first day of the tenth month the tops of the high hills were seen. 
Genesis8:6 At the end of [another] forty days Noah opened a window of the ark which he had made 
Genesis8:7 And sent forth a raven, which kept going to and fro until the waters were dried up from the land." 
Genesis8:8 Then he sent forth a dove to see if the waters had decreased from the surface of the ground. 
Genesis8:9 But the dove found no resting-place on which to roost, and she returned to him to the ark, for the waters were [yet] on the face of the whole land. So he put forth his hand and drew her to him into the ark." 
Genesis8:10 He waited another seven days and again sent forth the dove out of the ark. 
Genesis8:11 And the dove came back to him in the evening, and behold, in her mouth was a newly sprouted and freshly plucked olive leaf! So Noah knew that the waters had subsided from the land." 
Genesis8:12 Then he waited another seven days and sent forth the dove, but she did not return to him any more." 
Genesis8:13 In the year 601 [of Noah's life], on the first day of the first month, the waters were drying up from the land. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the surface of the ground was drying." 
Genesis8:14 And on the twenty-seventh day of the second month the land was entirely dry. 
Genesis8:15 And God spoke to Noah, saying," 
Genesis8:16 Go forth from the ark, you and your wife and your sons and their wives with you." 
Genesis8:17 Bring forth every living thing that is with you of all flesh,birds and beasts and every creeping thing that creeps on the ground,that they may breed abundantly on the land and be fruitful and multiply upon the earth. 
Genesis8:18 And Noah went forth, and his wife and his sons and their wives with him [after being in the ark one year and ten days]." 
Genesis8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, every bird,and whatever moves on the land,went forth by families out of the ark." 
Genesis8:20 And Noah built an altar to the Lord and took of every clean [four-footed] animal and of every clean fowl or bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. 
Genesis8:21 When the Lord smelled the pleasing odor [a scent of satisfaction to His heart], the Lord said to Himself, I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the imagination (the strong desire) of man's heart is evil and wicked from his youth; neither will I ever again smite and destroy every living thing, as I have done." 
Genesis8:22 While the earth remains, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease." 
Genesis9:1 AND GOD pronounced a blessing upon Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth." 
Genesis9:2 And the fear of you and the dread and terror of you shall be upon every beast of the land, every bird of the air, all that creeps upon the ground, and upon all the fish of the sea; they are delivered into your hand." 
Genesis9:3 Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you; and as I gave you the green vegetables and plants, I give you everything." 
Genesis9:4 But you shall not eat flesh with the life of it, which is its blood." 
Genesis9:5 And surely for your lifeblood I will require an accounting; from every beast I will require it; and from man, from every man [who spills another's lifeblood] I will require a reckoning." 
Genesis9:6 Whoever sheds man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed; for in the image of God He made man." 
Genesis9:7 And you, be fruitful and multiply; bring forth abundantly on the earth and multiply on it." 
Genesis9:8 Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying," 
Genesis9:9 Behold, I establish My covenant or pledge with you and with your descendants after you" 
Genesis9:10 And with every living creature that is with you,whether the birds, the livestock, or the wild beasts of the earth along with you, as many as came out of the ark,every animal of the earth." 
Genesis9:11 I will establish My covenant or pledge with you: Never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of a flood; neither shall there ever again be a flood to destroy the earth and make it corrupt. 
Genesis9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant (solemn pledge) which I am making between Me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all future generations:" 
Genesis9:13 I set My bow [rainbow] in the cloud, and it shall be a token or sign of a covenant or solemn pledge between Me and the earth." 
Genesis9:14 And it shall be that when I bring clouds over the earth and the bow [rainbow] is seen in the clouds," 
Genesis9:15 I will [earnestly] remember My covenant or solemn pledge which is between Me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters will no more become a flood to destroy and make all flesh corrupt. 
Genesis9:16 When the bow [rainbow] is in the clouds and I look upon it, I will [earnestly] remember the everlasting covenant or pledge between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth." 
Genesis9:17 And God said to Noah, This [rainbow] is the token or sign of the covenant or solemn pledge which I have established between Me and all flesh upon the earth." 
Genesis9:18 The sons of Noah who went forth from the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan [born later]." 
Genesis9:19 These are the three sons of Noah, and from them the whole earth was overspread and stocked with inhabitants." 
Genesis9:20 And Noah began to cultivate the ground, and he planted a vineyard." 
Genesis9:21 And he drank of the wine and became drunk, and he was uncovered and lay naked in his tent." 
Genesis9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, glanced at and saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside." 
Genesis9:23 So Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it upon the shoulders of both, and went backward and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they did not see their father's nakedness." 
Genesis9:24 When Noah awoke from his wine, and knew the thing which his youngest son had done to him," 
Genesis9:25 He exclaimed, Cursed be Canaan! He shall be the servant of servants to his brethren! [Deut. 27:16.]" 
Genesis9:26 He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem! And blessed by the Lord my God be Shem! And let Canaan be his servant." 
Genesis9:27 May God enlarge Japheth; and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant." 
Genesis9:28 And Noah lived after the flood 350 years. 
Genesis9:29 All the days of Noah were 950 years, and he died." 
Genesis10:1 THIS IS the history of the generations (descendants) of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The sons born to them after the flood were:" 
Genesis10:2 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras." 
Genesis10:3 The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah." 
Genesis10:4 The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim." 
Genesis10:5 From these the coastland peoples spread. [These are the sons of Japheth] in their lands, each with his own language, by their families within their nations." 
Genesis10:6 The sons of Ham: Cush, Egypt [Mizraim], Put, and Canaan." 
Genesis10:7 The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca; and the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan." 
Genesis10:8 Cush became the father of Nimrod; he was the first to be a mighty man on the earth. 
Genesis10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the Lord; therefore it is said, Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord." 
Genesis10:10 The beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erech, Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar [in Babylonia]." 
Genesis10:11 Out of the land he [Nimrod] went forth into Assyria and built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah," 
Genesis10:12 And Resen, which is between Nineveh and Calah; all these [suburbs combined to form] the great city." 
Genesis10:13 And Egypt [Mizraim] became the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim," 
Genesis10:14 Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom came the Philistines), and Caphtorim." 
Genesis10:15 Canaan became the father of Sidon his firstborn, Heth [the Hittites]," 
Genesis10:16 The Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites," 
Genesis10:17 The Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites," 
Genesis10:18 The Arvadites, the Zemarites and the Hamathites. Afterward the families of the Canaanites spread abroad" 
Genesis10:19 And the territory of the Canaanites extended from Sidon as one goes to Gerar as far as Gaza, and as one goes to Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha." 
Genesis10:20 These are the sons of Ham by their families, their languages, their lands, and their nations." 
Genesis10:21 To Shem also, the younger brother of Japheth and the ancestor of all the children of Eber [including the Hebrews], children were born." 
Genesis10:22 The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram." 
Genesis10:23 The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash." 
Genesis10:24 Arpachshad became the father of Shelah; and Shelah became the father of Eber. 
Genesis10:25 To Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg [division], because [the inhabitants of] the earth were divided up in his days; and his brother's name was Joktan." 
Genesis10:26 Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah," 
Genesis10:27 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
Genesis10:28 Obal, Abimael, Sheba," 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan." 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan." 
Genesis10:30 The territory in which they lived extended from Mesha as one goes toward Sephar to the hill country of the east. 
Genesis10:31 These are Shem's descendants by their families, their languages, their lands, and their nations." 
Genesis10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, within their nations; and from these the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood. [Acts 17:26.]" 
Genesis11:1 AND THE whole earth was of one language and of one accent and mode of expression. 
Genesis11:2 And as they journeyed eastward, they found a plain (valley) in the land of Shinar, and they settled and dwelt there." 
Genesis11:3 And they said one to another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. So they had brick for stone, and slime (bitumen) for mortar." 
Genesis11:4 And they said, Come, let us build us a city and a tower whose top reaches into the sky, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered over the whole earth." 
Genesis11:5 And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. 
Genesis11:6 And the Lord said, Behold, they are one people and they have all one language; and this is only the beginning of what they will do, and now nothing they have imagined they can do will be impossible for them." 
Genesis11:7 Come, let Us go down and there confound (mix up, confuse) their language, that they may not understand one another's speech." 
Genesis11:8 So the Lord scattered them abroad from that place upon the face of the whole earth, and they gave up building the city." 
Genesis11:9 Therefore the name of it was called Babel,because there the Lord confounded the language of all the earth; and from that place the Lord scattered them abroad upon the face of the whole earth. 
Genesis11:10 This is the history of the generations of Shem. Shem was 100 years old when he became the father of Arpachshad, two years after the flood." 
Genesis11:11 And Shem lived after Arpachshad was born 500 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:12 When Arpachshad had lived 35 years, he became the father of Shelah." 
Genesis11:13 Arpachshad lived after Shelah was born 403 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:14 When Shelah had lived 30 years, he became the father of Eber." 
Genesis11:15 Shelah lived after Eber was born 403 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:16 When Eber had lived 34 years, he became the father of Peleg." 
Genesis11:17 And Eber lived after Peleg was born 430 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:18 When Peleg had lived 30 years, he became the father of Reu." 
Genesis11:19 And Peleg lived after Reu was born 209 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:20 When Reu had lived 32 years, he became the father of Serug." 
Genesis11:21 And Reu lived after Serug was born 207 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:22 When Serug had lived 30 years, he became the father of Nahor." 
Genesis11:23 And Serug lived after Nahor was born 200 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:24 When Nahor had lived 29 years, he became the father of Terah." 
Genesis11:25 And Nahor lived after Terah was born 119 years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:26 After Terah had lived 70 years, he became the father of [at different times], Abram and Nahor and Haran, [his firstborn]." 
Genesis11:27 Now this is the history of the descendants of Terah. Terah was the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran was the father of Lot." 
Genesis11:28 Haran died before his father Terah [died] in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees." 
Genesis11:29 And Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran the father of Milcah and Iscah." 
Genesis11:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
Genesis11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, Lot the son of Haran, his grandson, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife, and they went forth together to go from Ur of the Chaldees into the land of Canaan; but when they came to Haran, they settled there." 
Genesis11:32 And Terah lived 205 years; and Terah died in Haran. 
Genesis12:1 NOW [in Haran] the Lord said to Abram, Go for yourself [for your own advantage] away from your country, from your relatives and your father's house, to the land that I will show you. [Heb. 11:8-10.]" 
Genesis12:2 And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you [with abundant increase of favors] and make your name famous and distinguished, and you will be a blessing [dispensing good to others]." 
Genesis12:3 And I will bless those who bless you [who confer prosperity or happiness upon you] and curse him who curses or uses insolent language toward you; in you will all the families and kindred of the earth be blessed [and by you they will bless themselves]. [Gal. 3:8.] 
Genesis12:4 So Abram departed, as the Lord had directed him; and Lot [his nephew] went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he left Haran." 
Genesis12:5 Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the persons [servants] that they had acquired in Haran, and they went forth to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan," 
Genesis12:6 Abram passed through the land to the locality of Shechem, to the oak or terebinth tree of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land." 
Genesis12:7 Then the Lord appeared to Abram and said, I will give this land to your posterity. So Abram built an altar there to the Lord, Who had appeared to him." 
Genesis12:8 From there he pulled up [his tent pegs] and departed to the mountain on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; and there he built an altar to the Lord and called upon the name of the Lord." 
Genesis12:9 Abram journeyed on, still going toward the South (the Negeb)." 
Genesis12:10 Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down into Egypt to live temporarily, for the famine in the land was oppressive (intense and grievous)." 
Genesis12:11 And when he was about to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, I know that you are beautiful to behold." 
Genesis12:12 So when the Egyptians see you, they will say, This is his wife; and they will kill me, but they will let you live." 
Genesis12:13 Say, I beg of you, that you are my sister, so that it may go well with me for your sake and my life will be spared because of you." 
Genesis12:14 And when Abram came into Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful." 
Genesis12:15 The princes of Pharaoh also saw her and commended her to Pharaoh, and she was taken into Pharaoh's house [harem]." 
Genesis12:16 And he treated Abram well for her sake; he acquired sheep, oxen, he-donkeys, menservants, maidservants, she-donkeys, and camels." 
Genesis12:17 But the Lord scourged Pharaoh and his household with serious plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife." 
Genesis12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?" 
Genesis12:19 Why did you say, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? Now then, here is your wife; take her and get away [from here]!" 
Genesis12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him, and they brought him on his way with his wife and all that he had." 
Genesis13:1 SO ABRAM went up out of Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the South [country of Judah, the Negeb]." 
Genesis13:2 Now Abram was extremely rich in livestock and in silver and in gold. 
Genesis13:3 And he journeyed on from the South [country of Judah, the Negeb] as far as Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai," 
Genesis13:4 Where he had built an altar at first; and there Abram called on the name of the Lord. [Gal. 3:6-9.] 
Genesis13:5 But Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents." 
Genesis13:6 Now the land was not able to nourish and support them so they could dwell together, for their possessions were too great for them to live together." 
Genesis13:7 And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle. And the Canaanite and the Perizzite were dwelling then in the land [making fodder more difficult to obtain]. 
Genesis13:8 So Abram said to Lot, Let there be no strife, I beg of you, between you and me, or between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are relatives." 
Genesis13:9 Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself, I beg of you, from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if you choose the right hand, then I will go to the left." 
Genesis13:10 And Lot looked and saw that everywhere the Jordan Valley was well watered. Before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, [it was all] like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as you go to Zoar." 
Genesis13:11 Then Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley and [he] traveled east. So they separated. 
Genesis13:12 Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the [Jordan] Valley and moved his tent as far as Sodom and dwelt there." 
Genesis13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and exceedingly great sinners against the Lord. 
Genesis13:14 The Lord said to Abram after Lot had left him, Lift up now your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward;" 
Genesis13:15 For all the land which you see I will give to you and to your posterity forever. [Acts 7:5.] 
Genesis13:16 And I will make your descendants like the dust of the earth, so that if a man could count the dust of the earth, then could your descendants also be counted. [Gen. 28:14.]" 
Genesis13:17 Arise, walk through the land, the length of it and the breadth of it, for I will give it to you." 
Genesis13:18 Then Abram moved his tent and came and dwelt among the oaks or terebinths of Mamre, which are at Hebron, and built there an altar to the Lord." 
Genesis14:1 IN THE days of the kings Amraphel of Shinar, Arioch of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer of Elam, and Tidal of Goiim," 
Genesis14:2 They made war on the kings Bera of Sodom, Birsha of Gomorrah, Shinab of Admah, Shemeber of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, that is, Zoar." 
Genesis14:3 The latter kings joined together [as allies] in the Valley of Siddim, which is [now] the [Dead] Sea of Salt." 
Genesis14:4 Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled." 
Genesis14:5 And in the fourteenth year, Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him attacked and subdued the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim," 
Genesis14:6 And the Horites in their Mount Seir as far as El-paran, which is on the border of the wilderness." 
Genesis14:7 Then they turned back and came to En-mishpat, which [now] is Kadesh, and subdued all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazazon-tamar." 
Genesis14:8 Then the kings of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, Zeboiim, and Bela, that is, Zoar, went out and [together] they joined battle [with those kings] in the Valley of Siddim," 
Genesis14:9 With the kings Chedorlaomer of Elam, Tidal of Goiim, Amraphel of Shinar, and Arioch of Ellasar,four kings against five." 
Genesis14:10 Now the Valley of Siddim was full of slime or bitumen pits, and as the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, they fell (were overthrown) there and the remainder [of the kings] fled to the mountain." 
Genesis14:11 [The victors] took all the wealth of Sodom and Gomorrah and all the supply of provisions and departed. 
Genesis14:12 And they also took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods away with them." 
Genesis14:13 Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew [one from the other side], who was living by the oaks or terebinths of Mamre the Amorite, a brother of Eshcol and of Aner,these were allies of Abram." 
Genesis14:14 When Abram heard that [his nephew] had been captured, he armed (led forth) the 318 trained servants born in his own house and pursued the enemy as far as Dan." 
Genesis14:15 He divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and attacked and routed them, and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is north of Damascus." 
Genesis14:16 And he brought back all the goods and also brought back his kinsman Lot and his possessions, the women also and the people." 
Genesis14:17 After his [Abram's] return from the defeat and slaying of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh, that is, the King's Valley." 
Genesis14:18 Melchizedek king of Salem [later called Jerusalem] brought out bread and wine [for their nourishment]; he was the priest of God Most High," 
Genesis14:19 And he blessed him and said, Blessed (favored with blessings, made blissful, joyful) be Abram by God Most High, Possessor and Maker of heaven and earth," 
Genesis14:20 And blessed, praised, and glorified be God Most High, Who has given your foes into your hand! And [Abram] gave him a tenth of all [he had taken]. [Heb. 7:1-10.]" 
Genesis14:21 And the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the persons and keep the goods for yourself." 
Genesis14:22 But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand and sworn to the Lord, God Most High, the Possessor and Maker of heaven and earth," 
Genesis14:23 That I would not take a thread or a shoelace or anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich." 
Genesis14:24 [Take all] except only what my young men have eaten and the share of the men [allies] who went with me,Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion." 
Genesis15:1 AFTER THESE things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am your Shield, your abundant compensation, and your reward shall be exceedingly great." 
Genesis15:2 And Abram said, Lord God, what can You give me, since I am going on [from this world] childless and he who shall be the owner and heir of my house is this [steward] Eliezer of Damascus?" 
Genesis15:3 And Abram continued, Look, You have given me no child; and [a servant] born in my house is my heir." 
Genesis15:4 And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, saying, This man shall not be your heir, but he who shall come from your own body shall be your heir." 
Genesis15:5 And He brought him outside [his tent into the starlight] and said, Look now toward the heavens and count the stars,if you are able to number them. Then He said to him, So shall your descendants be. [Heb. 11:12.]" 
Genesis15:6 And he [Abram] believed in (trusted in, relied on, remained steadfast to) the Lord, and He counted it to him as righteousness (right standing with God). [Rom. 4:3, 18-22; Gal. 3:6; James 2:23.]" 
Genesis15:7 And He said to him, I am the [same] Lord, Who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees to give you this land as an inheritance." 
Genesis15:8 But he [Abram] said, Lord God, by what shall I know that I shall inherit it?" 
Genesis15:9 And He said to him, Bring to Me a heifer three years old, a she-goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon." 
Genesis15:10 And he brought Him all these and cut them down the middle [into halves] and laid each half opposite the other; but the birds he did not divide. 
Genesis15:11 And when the birds of prey swooped down upon the carcasses, Abram drove them away." 
Genesis15:12 When the sun was setting, a deep sleep overcame Abram, and a horror (a terror, a shuddering fear) of great darkness assailed and oppressed him." 
Genesis15:13 And [God] said to Abram, Know positively that your descendants will be strangers dwelling as temporary residents in a land that is not theirs [Egypt], and they will be slaves there and will be afflicted and oppressed for 400 years. [Fulfilled in Exod. 12:40.]" 
Genesis15:14 But I will bring judgment on that nation whom they will serve, and afterward they will come out with great possessions. [Acts 7:6, 7.]" 
Genesis15:15 And you shall go to your fathers in peace; you shall be buried at a good old (hoary) age. 
Genesis15:16 And in the fourth generation they [your descendants] shall come back here [to Canaan] again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full and complete. [Josh. 24:15.]" 
Genesis15:17 When the sun had gone down and a [thick] darkness had come on, behold, a smoking oven and a flaming torch passed between those pieces." 
Genesis15:18 On the same day the Lord made a covenant (promise, pledge) with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river Euphrates,the land of" 
Genesis15:19 The Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites," 
Genesis15:20 The Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim," 
Genesis15:21 The Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites." 
Genesis16:1 NOW SARAI, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. She had an Egyptian maid whose name was Hagar." 
Genesis16:2 And Sarai said to Abram, See here, the Lord has restrained me from bearing [children]. I am asking you to have intercourse with my maid; it may be that I can obtain children by her. And Abram listened to and heeded what Sarai said." 
Genesis16:3 So Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar her Egyptian maid, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his [secondary] wife." 
Genesis16:4 And he had intercourse with Hagar, and she became pregnant; and when she saw that she was with child, she looked with contempt upon her mistress and despised her." 
Genesis16:5 Then Sarai said to Abram, May [the responsibility for] my wrong and deprivation of rights be upon you! I gave my maid into your bosom, and when she saw that she was with child, I was contemptible and despised in her eyes. May the Lord be the judge between you and me." 
Genesis16:6 But Abram said to Sarai, See here, your maid is in your hands and power; do as you please with her. And when Sarai dealt severely with her, humbling and afflicting her, she [Hagar] fled from her." 
Genesis16:7 But the Angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness on the road to Shur. 
Genesis16:8 And He said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, where did you come from, and where are you intending to go? And she said, I am running away from my mistress Sarai." 
Genesis16:9 The Angel of the Lord said to her, Go back to your mistress and [humbly] submit to her control." 
Genesis16:10 Also the Angel of the Lord said to her, I will multiply your descendants exceedingly, so that they shall not be numbered for multitude." 
Genesis16:11 And the Angel of the Lord continued, See now, you are with child and shall bear a son, and shall call his name Ishmael [God hears], because the Lord has heard and paid attention to your affliction." 
Genesis16:12 And he [Ishmael] will be as a wild ass among men; his hand will be against every man and every man's hand against him, and he will live to the east and on the borders of all his kinsmen." 
Genesis16:13 So she called the name of the Lord Who spoke to her, You are a God of seeing, for she said, Have I [not] even here [in the wilderness] looked upon Him Who sees me [and lived]? Or have I here also seen [the future purposes or designs of] Him Who sees me?" 
Genesis16:14 Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi [A well to the Living One Who sees me]; it is between Kadesh and Bered. 
Genesis16:15 And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son whom Hagar bore Ishmael." 
Genesis16:16 Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael. 
Genesis17:1 WHEN ABRAM was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to him and said, I am the Almighty God; walk and live habitually before Me and be perfect (blameless, wholehearted, complete)." 
Genesis17:2 And I will make My covenant (solemn pledge) between Me and you and will multiply you exceedingly. 
Genesis17:3 Then Abram fell on his face, and God said to him," 
Genesis17:4 As for Me, behold, My covenant (solemn pledge) is with you, and you shall be the father of many nations." 
Genesis17:5 Nor shall your name any longer be Abram [high, exalted father]; but your name shall be Abraham [father of a multitude], for I have made you the father of many nations." 
Genesis17:6 And I will make you exceedingly fruitful and I will make nations of you, and kings will come from you." 
Genesis17:7 And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your descendants after you throughout their generations for an everlasting, solemn pledge, to be a God to you and to your posterity after you. [Gal. 3:16.]" 
Genesis17:8 And I will give to you and to your posterity after you the land in which you are a stranger [going from place to place], all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God. [Acts 7:5.]" 
Genesis17:9 And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall therefore keep My covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout their generations." 
Genesis17:10 This is My covenant, which you shall keep, between Me and you and your posterity after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised." 
Genesis17:11 And you shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a token or sign of the covenant (the promise or pledge) between Me and you." 
Genesis17:12 He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male throughout your generations, whether born in [your] house or bought with [your] money from any foreigner not of your offspring." 
Genesis17:13 He that is born in your house and he that is bought with your money must be circumcised; and My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. 
Genesis17:14 And the male who is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he has broken My covenant." 
Genesis17:15 And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai; but Sarah [Princess] her name shall be." 
Genesis17:16 And I will bless her and give you a son also by her. Yes, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of peoples shall come from her." 
Genesis17:17 Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed and said in his heart, Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a son?" 
Genesis17:18 And [he] said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before You!" 
Genesis17:19 But God said, Sarah your wife shall bear you a son indeed, and you shall call his name Isaac [laughter]; and I will establish My covenant or solemn pledge with him for an everlasting covenant and with his posterity after him." 
Genesis17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard and heeded you: behold, I will bless him and will make him fruitful and will multiply him exceedingly; He will be the father of twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation. [Fulfilled in Gen. 25:12-18.]" 
Genesis17:21 But My covenant, My promise and pledge, I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this season next year." 
Genesis17:22 And God stopped talking with him and went up from Abraham. 
Genesis17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son and all who were born in his house and all who were bought with his money, every male among [those] of Abraham's house, and circumcised [them] the very same day, as God had said to him." 
Genesis17:24 And Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised. 
Genesis17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised. 
Genesis17:26 On the very same day Abraham was circumcised, and Ishmael his son as well." 
Genesis17:27 And all the men of his house, both those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised along with him." 
Genesis18:1 NOW THE Lord appeared to Abraham by the oaks or terebinths of Mamre; as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day," 
Genesis18:2 He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men stood at a little distance from him. He ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the ground" 
Genesis18:3 And said, My lord, if now I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant, I beg of you." 
Genesis18:4 Let a little water be brought, and you may wash your feet and recline and rest yourselves under the tree." 
Genesis18:5 And I will bring a morsel (mouthful) of bread to refresh and sustain your hearts before you go on further,for that is why you have come to your servant. And they replied, Do as you have said." 
Genesis18:6 So Abraham hastened into the tent to Sarah and said, Quickly get ready three measures of fine meal, knead it, and bake cakes." 
Genesis18:7 And Abraham ran to the herd and brought a calf tender and good and gave it to the young man [to butcher]; then he [Abraham] hastened to prepare it. 
Genesis18:8 And he took curds and milk and the calf which he had made ready, and set it before [the men]; and he stood by them under the tree while they ate." 
Genesis18:9 And they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, [She is here] in the tent." 
Genesis18:10 [The Lord] said, I will surely return to you when the season comes round, and behold, Sarah your wife will have a son. And Sarah was listening and heard it at the tent door which was behind Him. [Rom. 9:9-12.]" 
Genesis18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in years; it had ceased to be with Sarah as with [young] women. [She was past the age of childbearing]." 
Genesis18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I have become aged shall I have pleasure and delight, my lord (husband), being old also? [I Pet. 3:6.]" 
Genesis18:13 And the Lord asked Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I really bear a child when I am so old?" 
Genesis18:14 Is anything too hard or too wonderful for the Lord? At the appointed time, when the season [for her delivery] comes around, I will return to you and Sarah shall have borne a son. [Matt. 19:26.]" 
Genesis18:15 Then Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh; for she was afraid. And He said, No, but you did laugh." 
Genesis18:16 The men rose up from there and faced toward Sodom, and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way." 
Genesis18:17 And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham [My friend and servant] what I am going to do, [Gal. 3:8.]" 
Genesis18:18 Since Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed through him and shall bless themselves by him? [Gen. 12:2-3.]" 
Genesis18:19 For I have known (chosen, acknowledged) him [as My own], so that he may teach and command his children and the sons of his house after him to keep the way of the Lord and to do what is just and righteous, so that the Lord may bring Abraham what He has promised him." 
Genesis18:20 And the Lord said, Because the shriek [of the sins] of Sodom and Gomorrah is great and their sin is exceedingly grievous," 
Genesis18:21 I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether [as vilely and wickedly] as is the cry of it which has come to Me; and if not, I will know." 
Genesis18:22 Now the [two] men turned from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham still stood before the Lord." 
Genesis18:23 And Abraham came close and said, Will You destroy the righteous (those upright and in right standing with God) together with the wicked?" 
Genesis18:24 Suppose there are in the city fifty righteous; will You destroy the place and not spare it for [the sake of] the fifty righteous in it? 
Genesis18:25 Far be it from You to do such a thing,to slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as do the wicked! Far be it from You! Shall not the Judge of all the earth execute judgment and do righteously?" 
Genesis18:26 And the Lord said, If I find in the city of Sodom fifty righteous (upright and in right standing with God), I will spare the whole place for their sake." 
Genesis18:27 Abraham answered, Behold now, I who am but dust and ashes have taken upon myself to speak to the Lord." 
Genesis18:28 If five of the fifty righteous should be lacking,will You destroy the whole city for lack of five? He said, If I find forty-five, I will not destroy it." 
Genesis18:29 And [Abraham] spoke to Him yet again, and said, Suppose [only] forty shall be found there. And He said, I will not do it for forty's sake." 
Genesis18:30 Then [Abraham] said to Him, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak [again]. Suppose [only] thirty shall be found there. And He answered, I will not do it if I find thirty there." 
Genesis18:31 And [Abraham] said, Behold now, I have taken upon myself to speak [again] to the Lord. Suppose [only] twenty shall be found there. And [the Lord] replied, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake." 
Genesis18:32 And he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak again only this once. Suppose ten [righteous people] shall be found there. And [the Lord] said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake." 
Genesis18:33 And the Lord went His way when He had finished speaking with Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place." 
Genesis19:1 IT WAS evening when the two angels came to Sodom. Lot was sitting at Sodom's [city] gate. Seeing them, Lot rose up to meet them and bowed to the ground." 
Genesis19:2 And he said, My lords, turn aside, I beg of you, into your servant's house and spend the night and bathe your feet. Then you can arise early and go on your way. But they said, No, we will spend the night in the square." 
Genesis19:3 [Lot] entreated and urged them greatly until they yielded and [with him] entered his house. And he made them a dinner [with drinking] and had unleavened bread which he baked, and they ate." 
Genesis19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city of Sodom, both young and old, all the men from every quarter, surrounded the house." 
Genesis19:5 And they called to Lot and said, Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know (be intimate with) them." 
Genesis19:6 And Lot went out of the door to the men and shut the door after him 
Genesis19:7 And said, I beg of you, my brothers, do not behave so wickedly." 
Genesis19:8 Look now, I have two daughters who are virgins; let me, I beg of you, bring them out to you, and you can do as you please with them. But only do nothing to these men, for they have come under the protection of my roof." 
Genesis19:9 But they said, Stand back! And they said, This fellow came in to live here temporarily, and now he presumes to be [our] judge! Now we will deal worse with you than with them. So they rushed at and pressed violently against Lot and came close to breaking down the door." 
Genesis19:10 But the men [the angels] reached out and pulled Lot into the house to them and shut the door after him. 
Genesis19:11 And they struck the men who were at the door of the house with blindness [which dazzled them], from the youths to the old men, so that they wearied themselves [groping] to find the door." 
Genesis19:12 And the [two] men asked Lot, Have you any others here,sons-in-law or your sons or your daughters? Whomever you have in the city, bring them out of this place," 
Genesis19:13 For we will spoil and destroy [Sodom]; for the outcry and shriek against its people has grown great before the Lord, and He has sent us to destroy it." 
Genesis19:14 And Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who were to marry his daughters, and said, Up, get out of this place, for the Lord will spoil and destroy this city! But he seemed to his sons-in-law to be [only] joking." 
Genesis19:15 When morning came, the angels urged Lot to hurry, saying, Arise, take your wife and two daughters who are here [and be off], lest you [too] be consumed and swept away in the iniquity and punishment of the city." 
Genesis19:16 But while he lingered, the men seized him and his wife and his two daughters by the hand, for the Lord was merciful to him; and they brought him forth and set him outside the city and left him there." 
Genesis19:17 And when they had brought them forth, they said, Escape for your life! Do not look behind you or stop anywhere in the whole valley; escape to the mountains [of Moab], lest you be consumed." 
Genesis19:18 And Lot said to them, Oh, not that, my lords!" 
Genesis19:19 Behold now, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have magnified your kindness and mercy to me in saving my life; but I cannot escape to the mountains, lest the evil overtake me, and I die." 
Genesis19:20 See now yonder city; it is near enough to flee to, and it is a little one. Oh, let me escape to it! Is it not a little one? And my life will be saved!" 
Genesis19:21 And [the angel] said to him, See, I have yielded to your entreaty concerning this thing also; I will not destroy this city of which you have spoken." 
Genesis19:22 Make haste and take refuge there, for I cannot do anything until you arrive there. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar [little]." 
Genesis19:23 The sun had risen over the earth when Lot entered Zoar. 
Genesis19:24 Then the Lord rained on Sodom and on Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of the heavens. 
Genesis19:25 He overthrew, destroyed, and ended those cities, and all the valley and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground." 
Genesis19:26 But [Lot's] wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt." 
Genesis19:27 Abraham went up early the next morning to the place where he [only the day before] had stood before the Lord. 
Genesis19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the valley, and saw, and behold, the smoke of the country went up like the smoke of a furnace." 
Genesis19:29 When God ravaged and destroyed the cities of the plain [of Siddim], He [earnestly] remembered Abraham [imprinted and fixed him indelibly on His mind], and He sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when He overthrew the cities where Lot lived." 
Genesis19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar and dwelt in the mountain, and his two daughters with him, for he feared to dwell in Zoar; and he lived in a cave, he and his two daughters." 
Genesis19:31 The elder said to the younger, Our father is aging, and there is not a man on earth to live with us in the customary way." 
Genesis19:32 Come, let us make our father drunk with wine, and we will lie with him, so that we may preserve offspring (our race) through our father." 
Genesis19:33 And they made their father drunk with wine that night, and the older went in and lay with her father; and he was not aware of it when she lay down or when she arose." 
Genesis19:34 Then the next day the firstborn said to the younger, See here, I lay last night with my father; let us make him drunk with wine tonight also, and then you go in and lie with him, so that we may preserve offspring (our race) through our father." 
Genesis19:35 And they made their father drunk with wine again that night, and the younger arose and lay with him; and he was not aware of it when she lay down or when she arose." 
Genesis19:36 Thus both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father. 
Genesis19:37 The older bore a son, and named him Moab [of a father]; he is the father of the Moabites to this day." 
Genesis19:38 The younger also bore a son and named him Ben-ammi [son of my people]; he is the father of the Ammonites to this day. 
Genesis20:1 NOW ABRAHAM journeyed from there toward the South country (the Negeb) and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur; and he lived temporarily in Gerar. 
Genesis20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. And Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah [into his harem]." 
Genesis20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said, Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken [as your own], for she is a man's wife." 
Genesis20:4 But Abimelech had not come near her, so he said, Lord, will you slay a people who are just and innocent?" 
Genesis20:5 Did not the man tell me, She is my sister? And she herself said, He is my brother. In integrity of heart and innocency of hands I have done this." 
Genesis20:6 Then God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know you did this in the integrity of your heart, for it was I Who kept you back and spared you from sinning against Me; therefore I did not give you occasion to touch her." 
Genesis20:7 So now restore to the man his wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you and you will live. But if you do not restore her [to him], know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours." 
Genesis20:8 So Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things; and the men were exceedingly filled with reverence and fear. 
Genesis20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, What have you done to us? And how have I offended you that you have brought on me and my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me what ought not to be done [to anyone]." 
Genesis20:10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What did you see [in us] that [justified] you in doing such a thing as this?" 
Genesis20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely there is no reverence or fear of God at all in this place, and they will slay me because of my wife." 
Genesis20:12 But truly, she is my sister; she is the daughter of my father but not of my mother; and she became my wife." 
Genesis20:13 When God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, This kindness you can show me: at every place we stop, say of me, He is my brother." 
Genesis20:14 Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen and male and female slaves and gave them to Abraham and restored to him Sarah his wife. 
Genesis20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before you; dwell wherever it pleases you." 
Genesis20:16 And to Sarah he said, Behold, I have given this brother of yours a thousand pieces of silver; see, it is to compensate you [for all that has occurred] and to vindicate your honor before all who are with you; before all men you are cleared and compensated." 
Genesis20:17 So Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech and his wife and his female slaves, and they bore children," 
Genesis20:18 For the Lord had closed fast the wombs of all in Abimelech's household because of Sarah, Abraham's wife." 
Genesis21:1 THE LORD visited Sarah as He had said, and the Lord did for her as He had promised." 
Genesis21:2 For Sarah became pregnant and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time God had told him." 
Genesis21:3 Abraham named his son whom Sarah bore to him Isaac [laughter]. 
Genesis21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him." 
Genesis21:5 Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac was born. 
Genesis21:6 And Sarah said, God has made me to laugh; all who hear will laugh with me." 
Genesis21:7 And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children at the breast? For I have borne him a son in his old age! [Heb. 11:12.]" 
Genesis21:8 And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned." 
Genesis21:9 Now Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking [Isaac]." 
Genesis21:10 Therefore she said to Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son, for the son of this bondwoman shall not be an heir with my son Isaac. [Gal. 4:28-31.]" 
Genesis21:11 And the thing was very grievous (serious, evil) in Abraham's sight on account of his son [Ishmael]." 
Genesis21:12 God said to Abraham, Do not let it seem grievous and evil to you because of the youth and your bondwoman; in all that Sarah has said to you, do what she asks, for in Isaac shall your posterity be called. [Rom. 9:7.]" 
Genesis21:13 And I will make a nation of the son of the bondwoman also, because he is your offspring." 
Genesis21:14 So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a bottle of water and gave them to Hagar, putting them on her shoulders, and he sent her and the youth away. And she wandered on [aimlessly] and lost her way in the wilderness of Beersheba." 
Genesis21:15 When the water in the bottle was all gone, Hagar caused the youth to lie down under one of the shrubs." 
Genesis21:16 Then she went and sat down opposite him a good way off, about a bowshot, for she said, Let me not see the death of the lad. And as she sat down opposite him, he lifted up his voice and wept and she raised her voice and wept." 
Genesis21:17 And God heard the voice of the youth, and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven and said to her, What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the youth where he is." 
Genesis21:18 Arise, raise up the youth and support him with your hand, for I intend to make him a great nation." 
Genesis21:19 Then God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water; and she went and filled the [empty] bottle with water and caused the youth to drink. 
Genesis21:20 And God was with the youth, and he developed; and he dwelt in the wilderness and became an archer." 
Genesis21:21 He dwelt in the Wilderness of Paran; and his mother took a wife for him out of the land of Egypt. 
Genesis21:22 At that time Abimelech and Phicol the commander of his army said to Abraham, God is with you in everything you do." 
Genesis21:23 So now, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me or with my son or with my posterity; but as I have dealt with you kindly, you will do the same with me and with the land in which you have sojourned." 
Genesis21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear." 
Genesis21:25 When Abraham complained to and reasoned with Abimelech about a well of water [Abimelech's] servants had violently seized," 
Genesis21:26 Abimelech said, I know not who did this thing; you did not tell me, and I did not hear of it until today." 
Genesis21:27 So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and the two men made a league or covenant." 
Genesis21:28 Abraham set apart seven ewe lambs of the flock," 
Genesis21:29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What do these seven ewe lambs which you have set apart mean?" 
Genesis21:30 He said, You are to accept these seven ewe lambs from me as a witness for me that I dug this well." 
Genesis21:31 Therefore that place was called Beersheba [well of the oath], because there both parties swore an oath." 
Genesis21:32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba; then Abimelech and Phicol the commander of his army returned to the land of the Philistines. 
Genesis21:33 Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba and called there on the name of the Lord, the Eternal God." 
Genesis21:34 And Abraham sojourned in Philistia many days. 
Genesis22:1 AFTER THESE events, God tested and proved Abraham and said to him, Abraham! And he said, Here I am." 
Genesis22:2 [God] said, Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the region of Moriah; and offer him there as a burnt offering upon one of the mountains of which I will tell you." 
Genesis22:3 So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him and his son Isaac; and he split the wood for the burnt offering, and then began the trip to the place of which God had told him." 
Genesis22:4 On the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place in the distance. 
Genesis22:5 And Abraham said to his servants, Settle down and stay here with the donkey, and I and the young man will go yonder and worship and come again to you." 
Genesis22:6 Then Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and laid it on [the shoulders of] Isaac his son, and he took the fire (the firepot) in his own hand, and a knife; and the two of them went on together." 
Genesis22:7 And Isaac said to Abraham, My father! And he said, Here I am, my son. [Isaac] said, See, here are the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt sacrifice?" 
Genesis22:8 Abraham said, My son, God Himself will provide a lamb for the burnt offering. So the two went on together." 
Genesis22:9 When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built an altar there; then he laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar on the wood. [Matt. 10:37.]" 
Genesis22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took hold of the knife to slay his son. [Heb. 11:17-19.] 
Genesis22:11 But the Angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! He answered, Here I am." 
Genesis22:12 And He said, Do not lay your hand on the lad or do anything to him; for now I know that you fear and revere God, since you have not held back from Me or begrudged giving Me your son, your only son." 
Genesis22:13 Then Abraham looked up and glanced around, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up for a burnt offering and an ascending sacrifice instead of his son!" 
Genesis22:14 So Abraham called the name of that place The Lord Will Provide. And it is said to this day, On the mount of the Lord it will be provided." 
Genesis22:15 The Angel of the Lord called to Abraham from heaven a second time 
Genesis22:16 And said, I have sworn by Myself, says the Lord, that since you have done this and have not withheld [from Me] or begrudged [giving Me] your son, your only son," 
Genesis22:17 In blessing I will bless you and in multiplying I will multiply your descendants like the stars of the heavens and like the sand on the seashore. And your Seed (Heir) will possess the gate of His enemies, [Heb. 6:13, 14; 11:12.]" 
Genesis22:18 And in your Seed [Christ] shall all the nations of the earth be blessed and [by Him] bless themselves, because you have heard and obeyed My voice. [Gen. 12:2-3; 13:16; 22:18; 26:4; 28:14; Acts 3:25, 26; Gal. 3:16.]" 
Genesis22:19 So Abraham returned to his servants, and they rose up and went with him to Beersheba; there Abraham lived." 
Genesis22:20 Now after these things, it was told Abraham, Milcah has also borne children to your brother Nahor:" 
Genesis22:21 Uz the firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram," 
Genesis22:22 Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel." 
Genesis22:23 Bethuel became the father of Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother." 
Genesis22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah." 
Genesis23:1 SARAH LIVED 127 years; this was the length of the life of Sarah. 
Genesis23:2 And Sarah died in Kiriath-arba, that is, Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham went to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her." 
Genesis23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead and said to the sons of Heth," 
Genesis23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you; give me property for a burial place among you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight." 
Genesis23:5 And the Hittites replied to Abraham," 
Genesis23:6 Listen to us, my lord; you are a mighty prince among us. Bury your dead in any tomb or grave of ours that you choose; none of us will withhold from you his tomb or hinder you from burying your dead." 
Genesis23:7 And Abraham stood up and bowed himself to the people of the land, the Hittites." 
Genesis23:8 And he said to them, If you are willing to grant my dead a burial out of my sight, listen to me and ask Ephron son of Zohar for me," 
Genesis23:9 That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he owns,it is at the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me here in your presence as a burial place to which I may hold fast among you." 
Genesis23:10 Now Ephron was present there among the sons of Heth; so, in the hearing of all who went in at the gate of his city, Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham, saying," 
Genesis23:11 No, my lord, hear me; I give you the field, and the cave that is in it I give you. In the presence of the sons of my people I give it to you. Bury your dead." 
Genesis23:12 Then Abraham bowed himself down before the people of the land. 
Genesis23:13 And he said to Ephron in the presence of the people of the land, But if you will give it, I beg of you, hear me. I will give you the price of the field; accept it from me, and I will bury my dead there." 
Genesis23:14 Ephron replied to Abraham, saying," 
Genesis23:15 My lord, listen to me. The land is worth 400 shekels of silver; what is that between you and me? So bury your dead." 
Genesis23:16 So Abraham listened to what Ephron said and acted upon it. He weighed to Ephron the silver which he had named in the hearing of the Hittites: 400 shekels of silver, according to the weights current among the merchants." 
Genesis23:17 So the field of Ephron in Machpelah, which was to the east of Mamre [Hebron],the field and the cave which was in it, and all the trees that were in the field and in all its borders round about,was made over" 
Genesis23:18 As a possession to Abraham in the presence of the Hittites, before all who went in at his city gate." 
Genesis23:19 After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah to the east of Mamre, that is, Hebron, in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis23:20 The field and the cave in it were conveyed to Abraham for a permanent burial place by the sons of Heth. 
Genesis24:1 NOW ABRAHAM was old, well advanced in years, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things." 
Genesis24:2 And Abraham said to the eldest servant of his house [Eliezer of Damascus], who ruled over all that he had, I beg of you, put your hand under my thigh; [Gen. 15:2.]" 
Genesis24:3 And you shall swear by the Lord, the God of heaven and earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I have settled," 
Genesis24:4 But you shall go to my country and to my relatives and take a wife for my son Isaac. 
Genesis24:5 The servant said to him, But perhaps the woman will not be willing to come along after me to this country. Must I take your son to the country from which you came?" 
Genesis24:6 Abraham said to him, See to it that you do not take my son back there." 
Genesis24:7 The Lord, the God of heaven, Who took me from my father's house, from the land of my family and my birth, Who spoke to me and swore to me, saying, To your offspring I will give this land,He will send His Angel before you, and you will take a wife from there for my son." 
Genesis24:8 And if the woman should not be willing to go along after you, then you will be clear from this oath; only you must not take my son back there." 
Genesis24:9 So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swore to him concerning this matter. 
Genesis24:10 And the servant took ten of his master's camels and departed, taking some of all his master's treasures with him; thus he journeyed to Mesopotamia [between the Tigris and the Euphrates], to the city of Nahor [Abraham's brother]." 
Genesis24:11 And he made his camels to kneel down outside the city by a well of water at the time of the evening when women go out to draw water. 
Genesis24:12 And he said, O Lord, God of my master Abraham, I pray You, cause me to meet with good success today, and show kindness to my master Abraham." 
Genesis24:13 See, I stand here by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming to draw water." 
Genesis24:14 And let it so be that the girl to whom I say, I pray you, let down your jar that I may drink, and she replies, Drink, and I will give your camels drink also,let her be the one whom You have selected and appointed and indicated for Your servant Isaac [to be a wife to him]; and by it I shall know that You have shown kindness and faithfulness to my master." 
Genesis24:15 Before he had finished speaking, behold, out came Rebekah, who was the daughter of Bethuel son of Milcah, who was the wife of Nahor the brother of Abraham, with her water jar on her shoulder." 
Genesis24:16 And the girl was very beautiful and attractive, chaste and modest, and unmarried. And she went down to the well, filled her water jar, and came up." 
Genesis24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, I pray you, let me drink a little water from your water jar." 
Genesis24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord; and she quickly let down her jar onto her hand and gave him a drink." 
Genesis24:19 When she had given him a drink, she said, I will draw water for your camels also, until they finish drinking." 
Genesis24:20 So she quickly emptied her jar into the trough and ran again to the well and drew water for all his camels. 
Genesis24:21 The man stood gazing at her in silence, waiting to know if the Lord had made his trip prosperous." 
Genesis24:22 And when the camels had finished drinking, the man took a gold earring or nose ring of half a shekel in weight, and for her hands two bracelets of ten shekels in weight in gold," 
Genesis24:23 And said, Whose daughter are you? I pray you, tell me: Is there room in your father's house for us to lodge there?" 
Genesis24:24 And she said to him, I am the daughter of Bethuel son of Milcah and [her husband] Nahor." 
Genesis24:25 She said also to him, We have both straw and provender (fodder) enough, and also room in which to lodge." 
Genesis24:26 The man bowed down his head and worshiped the Lord 
Genesis24:27 And said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, Who has not left my master bereft and destitute of His loving-kindness and steadfastness. As for me, going on the way [of obedience and faith] the Lord led me to the house of my master's kinsmen." 
Genesis24:28 The girl related to her mother's household what had happened. 
Genesis24:29 Now Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban, and Laban ran out to the man at the well." 
Genesis24:30 For when he saw the earring or nose ring, and the bracelets on his sister's arms, and when he heard Rebekah his sister saying, The man said this to me, he went to the man and found him standing by the camels at the well." 
Genesis24:31 He cried, Come in, you blessed of the Lord! Why do you stand outside? For I have made the house ready and have prepared a place for the camels." 
Genesis24:32 So the man came into the house; and [Laban] ungirded his camels and gave straw and provender for the camels and water to bathe his feet and the feet of the men who were with him. 
Genesis24:33 A meal was set before him, but he said, I will not eat until I have told of my errand. And [Laban] said, Speak on." 
Genesis24:34 And he said, I am Abraham's servant." 
Genesis24:35 And the Lord has blessed my master mightily, and he has become great; and He has given him flocks, herds, silver, gold, menservants, maidservants, camels, and asses." 
Genesis24:36 And Sarah my master's wife bore a son to my master when she was old, and to him he has given all that he has." 
Genesis24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, You must not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell," 
Genesis24:38 But you shall go to my father's house and to my family and take a wife for my son. 
Genesis24:39 And I said to my master, But suppose the woman will not follow me." 
Genesis24:40 And he said to me, The Lord, in Whose presence I walk [habitually], will send His Angel with you and prosper your way, and you will take a wife for my son from my kindred and from my father's house." 
Genesis24:41 Then you shall be clear from my oath, when you come to my kindred; and if they do not give her to you, you shall be free and innocent of my oath." 
Genesis24:42 I came today to the well and said, O Lord, God of my master Abraham, if You are now causing me to go on my way prosperously," 
Genesis24:43 See, I am standing by the well of water; now let it be that when the maiden comes out to draw water and I say to her, I pray you, give me a little water from your [water] jar to drink," 
Genesis24:44 And if she says to me, You drink, and I will draw water for your camels also, let that same woman be the one whom the Lord has selected and indicated for my master's son." 
Genesis24:45 And before I had finished praying in my heart, behold, Rebekah came out with her [water] jar on her shoulder, and she went down to the well and drew water. And I said to her, I pray you, let me have a drink." 
Genesis24:46 And she quickly let down her [water] jar from her shoulder and said, Drink, and I will water your camels also. So I drank, and she gave the camels drink also." 
Genesis24:47 I asked her, Whose daughter are you? She said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bore to him. And I put the earring or nose ring on her face and the bracelets on her arms." 
Genesis24:48 And I bowed down my head and worshiped the Lord and blessed the Lord, the God of my master Abraham, Who had led me in the right way to take my master's brother's daughter to his son." 
Genesis24:49 And now if you will deal kindly and truly with my master [showing faithfulness to him], tell me; and if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right or to the left." 
Genesis24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered, The thing comes forth from the Lord; we cannot speak bad or good to you." 
Genesis24:51 Rebekah is before you; take her and go, and let her be the wife of your master's son, as the Lord has said." 
Genesis24:52 And when Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed himself to the ground before the Lord." 
Genesis24:53 And the servant brought out jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and garments and gave them to Rebekah; he also gave precious things to her brother and her mother." 
Genesis24:54 Then they ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and stayed there all night. And in the morning they arose, and he said. Send me away to my master." 
Genesis24:55 But [Rebekah's] brother and mother said, Let the girl stay with us a few days,at least ten; then she may go." 
Genesis24:56 But [the servant] said to them, Do not hinder and delay me, seeing that the Lord has caused me to go prosperously on my way. Send me away, that I may go to my master." 
Genesis24:57 And they said, We will call the girl and ask her [what is] her desire." 
Genesis24:58 So they called Rebekah and said to her, Will you go with this man? And she said, I will go." 
Genesis24:59 So they sent away Rebekah their sister and her nurse [Deborah] and Abraham's servant and his men. 
Genesis24:60 And they blessed Rebekah and said to her, You are our sister; may you become the mother of thousands of ten thousands, and let your posterity possess the gate of their enemies." 
Genesis24:61 And Rebekah and her maids arose and followed the man upon their camels. Thus the servant took Rebekah and went on his way. 
Genesis24:62 Now Isaac had returned from going to the well Beer-lahai-roi [A well to the Living One Who sees me], for he [now] dwelt in the South country (the Negeb)." 
Genesis24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate and bow down [in prayer] in the open country in the evening; and he looked up and saw that, behold, the camels were coming." 
Genesis24:64 And Rebekah looked up, and when she saw Isaac, she dismounted from the camel." 
Genesis24:65 For she [had] said to the servant, Who is that man walking across the field to meet us? And the servant [had] said, He is my master. So she took a veil and concealed herself with it." 
Genesis24:66 And the servant told Isaac everything that he had done. 
Genesis24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and he took Rebekah and she became his wife, and he loved her; thus Isaac was comforted after his mother's death." 
Genesis25:1 ABRAHAM TOOK another wife, and her name was Keturah." 
Genesis25:2 And she bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah." 
Genesis25:3 Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim." 
Genesis25:4 The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah." 
Genesis25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac. 
Genesis25:6 But to the sons of his concubines [Hagar and Keturah] Abraham gave gifts, and while he was still living he sent them to the east country, away from Isaac his son [of promise]." 
Genesis25:7 The days of Abraham's life were 175 years. 
Genesis25:8 Then Abraham's spirit was released, and he died at a good (ample, full) old age, an old man, satisfied and satiated, and was gathered to his people. [Gen. 15:15.]" 
Genesis25:9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is east of Mamre," 
Genesis25:10 The field which Abraham purchased from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried with Sarah his wife. 
Genesis25:11 After the death of Abraham, God blessed his son Isaac, and Isaac dwelt at Beer-lahai-roi [A well to the Living One Who sees me]." 
Genesis25:12 Now this is the history of the descendants of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bore to Abraham." 
Genesis25:13 These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, named in the order of their births: Nebaioth, the firstborn of Ishmael, and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
Genesis25:14 Mishma, Dumah, Massa," 
Genesis25:15 Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah." 
Genesis25:16 These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages and by their encampments (sheepfolds),twelve princes according to their tribes. [Foretold in Gen. 17:20.]" 
Genesis25:17 And Ishmael lived 137 years; then his spirit left him, and he died and was gathered to his kindred." 
Genesis25:18 And [Ishmael's sons] dwelt from Havilah to Shur, which is before Egypt in the direction of Assyria. [Ishmael] dwelt close [to the lands] of all his brethren." 
Genesis25:19 And this is the history of the descendants of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham was the father of Isaac." 
Genesis25:20 Isaac was forty years old when he married Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean of Padan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean." 
Genesis25:21 And Isaac prayed much to the Lord for his wife because she was unable to bear children; and the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife became pregnant." 
Genesis25:22 [Two] children struggled together within her; and she said, If it is so [that the Lord has heard our prayer], why am I like this? And she went to inquire of the Lord." 
Genesis25:23 The Lord said to her, [The founders of] two nations are in your womb, and the separation of two peoples has begun in your body; the one people shall be stronger than the other, and the elder shall serve the younger." 
Genesis25:24 When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb." 
Genesis25:25 The first came out red all over like a hairy garment, and they named him Esau [hairy]." 
Genesis25:26 Afterward his brother came forth, and his hand grasped Esau's heel; so he was named Jacob [supplanter]. Isaac was sixty years old when she gave birth to them." 
Genesis25:27 When the boys grew up, Esau was a cunning and skilled hunter, a man of the outdoors; but Jacob was a plain and quiet man, dwelling in tents." 
Genesis25:28 And Isaac loved [and was partial to] Esau, because he ate of Esau's game; but Rebekah loved Jacob." 
Genesis25:29 Jacob was boiling pottage (lentil stew) one day, when Esau came from the field and was faint [with hunger]." 
Genesis25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, I beg of you, let me have some of that red lentil stew to eat, for I am faint and famished! That is why his name was called Edom [red]." 
Genesis25:31 Jacob answered, Then sell me today your birthright (the rights of a firstborn)." 
Genesis25:32 Esau said, See here, I am at the point of death; what good can this birthright do me?" 
Genesis25:33 Jacob said, Swear to me today [that you are selling it to me]; and he swore to [Jacob] and sold him his birthright." 
Genesis25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and stew of lentils, and he ate and drank and rose up and went his way. Thus Esau scorned his birthright as beneath his notice." 
Genesis26:1 AND THERE was a famine in the land, other than the former famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Gerar, to Abimelech king of the Philistines." 
Genesis26:2 And the Lord appeared to him and said, Do not go down to Egypt; live in the land of which I will tell you." 
Genesis26:3 Dwell temporarily in this land, and I will be with you and will favor you with blessings; for to you and to your descendants I will give all these lands, and I will perform the oath which I swore to Abraham your father." 
Genesis26:4 And I will make your descendants to multiply as the stars of the heavens, and will give to your posterity all these lands (kingdoms); and by your Offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, or by Him bless themselves, [Gen. 22:18; Acts 3:25, 26; Gal. 3:16.]" 
Genesis26:5 For Abraham listened to and obeyed My voice and kept My charge, My commands, My statutes, and My laws." 
Genesis26:6 So Isaac stayed in Gerar. 
Genesis26:7 And the men of the place asked him about his wife, and he said, She is my sister; for he was afraid to say, She is my wife,[thinking], Lest the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah, because she is attractive and is beautiful to look upon." 
Genesis26:8 When he had been there a long time, Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out of a window and saw Isaac caressing Rebekah his wife." 
Genesis26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac and said, See here, she is certainly your wife! How did you [dare] say to me, She is my sister? And Isaac said to him, Because I thought, Lest I die on account of her." 
Genesis26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? One of the men might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt and sin upon us." 
Genesis26:11 Then Abimelech charged all his people, He who touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death." 
Genesis26:12 Then Isaac sowed seed in that land and received in the same year a hundred times as much as he had planted, and the Lord favored him with blessings." 
Genesis26:13 And the man became great and gained more and more until he became very wealthy and distinguished; 
Genesis26:14 He owned flocks, herds, and a great supply of servants, and the Philistines envied him." 
Genesis26:15 Now all the wells which his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had closed and filled with earth." 
Genesis26:16 And Abimelech said to Isaac, Go away from us, for you are much mightier than we are." 
Genesis26:17 So Isaac went away from there and pitched his tent in the Valley of Gerar, and dwelt there." 
Genesis26:18 And Isaac dug again the wells of water which had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham; and he gave them the names by which his father had called them." 
Genesis26:19 Now Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of living [spring] water. 
Genesis26:20 And the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, The water is ours. And he named the well Esek [contention] because they quarreled with him." 
Genesis26:21 Then [his servants] dug another well, and they quarreled over that also; so he named it Sitnah [enmity]." 
Genesis26:22 And he moved away from there and dug another well, and for that one they did not quarrel. He named it Rehoboth [room], saying, For now the Lord has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land." 
Genesis26:23 Now he went up from there to Beersheba. 
Genesis26:24 And the Lord appeared to him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham your father. Fear not, for I am with you and will favor you with blessings and multiply your descendants for the sake of My servant Abraham." 
Genesis26:25 And [Isaac] built an altar there and called on the name of the Lord and pitched his tent there; and there Isaac's servants were digging a well. 
Genesis26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar with Ahuzzah, one of his friends, and Phicol, his army's commander." 
Genesis26:27 And Isaac said to them, Why have you come to me, seeing that you hate me and have sent me away from you?" 
Genesis26:28 They said, We saw that the Lord was certainly with you; so we said, Let there be now an oath between us [carrying a curse with it to befall the one who breaks it], even between you and us, and let us make a covenant with you" 
Genesis26:29 That you will do us no harm, inasmuch as we have not touched you and have done to you nothing but good and have sent you away in peace. You are now the blessed or favored of the Lord!" 
Genesis26:30 And he made them a [formal] dinner, and they ate and drank." 
Genesis26:31 And they rose up early in the morning and took oaths [with a curse] with one another; and Isaac sent them on their way and they departed from him in peace. 
Genesis26:32 That same day Isaac's servants came and told him about the well they had dug, saying, We have found water!" 
Genesis26:33 And he named [the well] Shibah; therefore the name of the city is Beersheba [well of the oath] to this day. [Gen. 21:31.] 
Genesis26:34 Now Esau was 40 years old when he took as wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite." 
Genesis26:35 And they made life bitter and a grief of mind and spirit for Isaac and Rebekah [their parents-in-law]. 
Genesis27:1 WHEN ISAAC was old and his eyes were dim so that he could not see, he called Esau his elder son, and said to him, My son! And he answered him, Here I am." 
Genesis27:2 He said, See here now; I am old, I do not know when I may die." 
Genesis27:3 So now, I pray you, take your weapons, your [arrows in a] quiver and your bow, and go out into the open country and hunt game for me," 
Genesis27:4 And prepare me appetizing meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat of it, [preparatory] to giving you my blessing [as my firstborn] before I die." 
Genesis27:5 But Rebekah heard what Isaac said to Esau his son; and when Esau had gone to the open country to hunt for game that he might bring it," 
Genesis27:6 Rebekah said to Jacob her younger son, See here, I heard your father say to Esau your brother," 
Genesis27:7 Bring me game and make me appetizing meat, so that I may eat and declare my blessing upon you before the Lord before my death." 
Genesis27:8 So now, my son, do exactly as I command you." 
Genesis27:9 Go now to the flock, and from it bring me two good and suitable kids; and I will make them into appetizing meat for your father, such as he loves." 
Genesis27:10 And you shall bring it to your father, that he may eat and declare his blessing upon you before his death." 
Genesis27:11 But Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Listen, Esau my brother is a hairy man and I am a smooth man." 
Genesis27:12 Suppose my father feels me; I will seem to him to be a cheat and an imposter, and I will bring [his] curse on me and not [his] blessing." 
Genesis27:13 But his mother said to him, On me be your curse, my son; only obey my word and go, fetch them to me." 
Genesis27:14 So [Jacob] went, got [the kids], and brought them to his mother; and his mother prepared appetizing meat with a delightful odor, such as his father loved." 
Genesis27:15 Then Rebekah took her elder son Esau's best clothes which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob her younger son." 
Genesis27:16 And she put the skins of the kids on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck. 
Genesis27:17 And she gave the savory meat and the bread which she had prepared into the hand of her son Jacob. 
Genesis27:18 So he went to his father and said, My father. And he said, Here am I; who are you, my son?" 
Genesis27:19 And Jacob said to his father, I am Esau your firstborn; I have done what you told me to do. Now sit up and eat of my game, so that you may proceed to bless me." 
Genesis27:20 And Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have found the game so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the Lord your God caused it to come to me." 
Genesis27:21 But Isaac said to Jacob, Come close to me, I beg of you, that I may feel you, my son, and know whether you really are my son Esau or not." 
Genesis27:22 So Jacob went near to Isaac, and his father felt him and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau." 
Genesis27:23 He could not identify him, because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau's hands; so he blessed him." 
Genesis27:24 But he said, Are you really my son Esau? He answered, I am." 
Genesis27:25 Then [Isaac] said, Bring it to me and I will eat of my son's game, that I may bless you. He brought it to him and he ate; and he brought him wine and he drank." 
Genesis27:26 Then his father Isaac said, Come near and kiss me, my son." 
Genesis27:27 So he came near and kissed him; and [Isaac] smelled his clothing and blessed him and said, The scent of my son is as the odor of a field which the Lord has blessed." 
Genesis27:28 And may God give you of the dew of the heavens and of the fatness of the earth and abundance of grain and [new] wine; 
Genesis27:29 Let peoples serve you and nations bow down to you; be master over your brothers, and let your mother's sons bow down to you. Let everyone be cursed who curses you and favored with blessings who blesses you." 
Genesis27:30 As soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob and Jacob was scarcely gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, Esau his brother came in from his hunting." 
Genesis27:31 Esau had also prepared savory food and brought it to his father and said to him, Let my father arise and eat of his son's game, that you may bless me." 
Genesis27:32 And Isaac his father said to him, Who are you? And he replied, I am your son, your firstborn, Esau." 
Genesis27:33 Then Isaac trembled and shook violently, and he said, Who? Where is he who has hunted game and brought it to me, and I ate of it all before you came and I have blessed him? Yes, and he shall be blessed." 
Genesis27:34 When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried out with a great and bitter cry and said to his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father! [Heb. 12:16, 17.]" 
Genesis27:35 [Isaac] said, Your brother came with crafty cunning and treacherous deceit and has taken your blessing." 
Genesis27:36 [Esau] replied, Is he not rightly named Jacob [the supplanter]? For he has supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright, and now he has taken away my blessing! Have you not still a blessing reserved for me?" 
Genesis27:37 And Isaac answered Esau, Behold, I have made [Jacob] your lord and master; I have given all his brethren to him for servants, and with corn and [new] wine have I sustained him. What then can I do for you, my son?" 
Genesis27:38 Esau said to his father, Have you only one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father! And Esau lifted up [could not control] his voice and wept aloud." 
Genesis27:39 Then Isaac his father answered, Your [blessing and] dwelling shall all come from the fruitfulness of the earth and from the dew of the heavens above;" 
Genesis27:40 By your sword you shall live and serve your brother. But [the time shall come] when you will grow restive and break loose, and you shall tear his yoke from off your neck." 
Genesis27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father blessed him; and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are very near. When [he is gone] I will kill my brother Jacob." 
Genesis27:42 These words of Esau her elder son were repeated to Rebekah. She sent for Jacob her younger son and said to him, See here, your brother Esau comforts himself concerning you [by intending] to kill you." 
Genesis27:43 So now, my son, do what I tell you; arise, flee to my brother Laban in Haran;" 
Genesis27:44 Linger and dwell with him for a while until your brother's fury is spent. 
Genesis27:45 When your brother's anger is diverted from you, he will forget [the wrong] that you have done him. Then I will send and bring you back from there. Why should I be deprived of both of you in one day?" 
Genesis27:46 Then Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth [these wives of Esau]! If Jacob takes a wife of the daughters of Heth such as these Hittite girls around here, what good will my life be to me?" 
Genesis28:1 SO ISAAC called Jacob and blessed him and commanded him, You shall not marry one of the women of Canaan." 
Genesis28:2 Arise, go to Padan-aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother's father, and take from there as a wife one of the daughters of Laban your mother's brother." 
Genesis28:3 May God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you until you become a group of peoples. 
Genesis28:4 May He give the blessing [He gave to] Abraham to you and your descendants with you, that you may inherit the land He gave to Abraham, in which you are a sojourner." 
Genesis28:5 Thus Isaac sent Jacob away. He went to Padan-aram, to Laban son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob and Esau's mother." 
Genesis28:6 Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him to Padan-aram to take him a wife from there, and that as he blessed him, he gave him a charge, saying, You shall not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;" 
Genesis28:7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother and had gone to Padan-aram. 
Genesis28:8 Also Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan did not please Isaac his father. 
Genesis28:9 So Esau went to Ishmael and took to be his wife, [in addition] to the wives he [already] had, Mahalath daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nebaioth." 
Genesis28:10 And Jacob left Beersheba and went toward Haran. 
Genesis28:11 And he came to a certain place and stayed there overnight, because the sun was set. Taking one of the stones of the place, he put it under his head and lay down there to sleep." 
Genesis28:12 And he dreamed that there was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and the angels of God were ascending and descending on it!" 
Genesis28:13 And behold, the Lord stood over and beside him and said, I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father [forefather] and the God of Isaac; I will give to you and to your descendants the land on which you are lying." 
Genesis28:14 And your offspring shall be as [countless as] the dust or sand of the ground, and you shall spread abroad to the west and the east and the north and the south; and by you and your Offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed and bless themselves. [Gen. 12:2-3; 13:16; 22:18; 26:4; Acts 3:25-26; Gal. 3:8, 16.]" 
Genesis28:15 And behold, I am with you and will keep (watch over you with care, take notice of) you wherever you may go, and I will bring you back to this land; for I will not leave you until I have done all of which I have told you." 
Genesis28:16 And Jacob awoke from his sleep and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place and I did not know it." 
Genesis28:17 He was afraid and said, How to be feared and reverenced is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gateway to heaven!" 
Genesis28:18 And Jacob rose early in the morning and took the stone he had put under his head, and he set it up for a pillar (a monument to the vision in his dream), and he poured oil on its top [in dedication]." 
Genesis28:19 And he named that place Bethel [the house of God]; but the name of that city was Luz at first. 
Genesis28:20 Then Jacob made a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go and will give me food to eat and clothing to wear," 
Genesis28:21 So that I may come again to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God;" 
Genesis28:22 And this stone which I have set up as a pillar (monument) shall be God's house [a sacred place to me], and of all [the increase of possessions] that You give me I will give the tenth to You." 
Genesis29:1 THEN JACOB went [briskly and cheerfully] on his way and came to the land of the people of the East. 
Genesis29:2 As he looked, he saw a well in the field; and behold, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it, for out of that well the flocks were watered. The stone on the well's mouth was a big one," 
Genesis29:3 And when all the flocks were gathered there, [the shepherds] would roll the stone from the well's mouth, water the sheep, and replace the stone on the well's mouth." 
Genesis29:4 And Jacob said to them, My brothers, where are you from? And they said, We are from Haran." 
Genesis29:5 [Jacob] said to them, Do you know Laban the grandson of Nahor? And they said, We know him." 
Genesis29:6 He said to them, Is it well with him? And they said, He is doing well; and behold, here comes his daughter Rachel with [his] sheep!" 
Genesis29:7 He said, The sun is still high; it is a long time yet before the flocks need be gathered [in their folds]. [Why not] water the sheep and return them to their pasture?" 
Genesis29:8 But they said, We cannot until all the flocks are gathered together; then [the shepherds] roll the stone from the well's mouth and we water the sheep." 
Genesis29:9 While he was still talking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, for she shepherded them." 
Genesis29:10 When Jacob saw Rachel daughter of Laban, his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his uncle, Jacob went near and rolled the stone from the well's mouth and watered the flock of his uncle Laban." 
Genesis29:11 Then Jacob kissed Rachel and he wept aloud. 
Genesis29:12 Jacob told Rachel he was her father's relative, Rebekah's son; and she ran and told her father." 
Genesis29:13 When Laban heard of the arrival of Jacob his sister's son, he ran to meet him, and embraced and kissed him and brought him to his house. And [Jacob] told Laban all these things." 
Genesis29:14 Then Laban said to him, Surely you are my bone and my flesh. And [Jacob] stayed with him a month." 
Genesis29:15 Then Laban said to Jacob, Just because you are my relative, should you work for me for nothing? Tell me, what shall your wages be?" 
Genesis29:16 Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the elder was Leah and the name of the younger was Rachel. 
Genesis29:17 Leah's eyes were weak and dull looking, but Rachel was beautiful and attractive." 
Genesis29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel; so he said, I will work for you for seven years for Rachel your younger daughter." 
Genesis29:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to you than to another man. Stay and live with me." 
Genesis29:20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed to him but a few days because of the love he had for her. 
Genesis29:21 Finally, Jacob said to Laban, Give me my wife, for my time is completed, so that I may take her to me." 
Genesis29:22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place and made a feast [with drinking]. 
Genesis29:23 But when night came, he took Leah his daughter and brought her to [Jacob], who had intercourse with her." 
Genesis29:24 And Laban gave Zilpah his maid to his daughter Leah to be her maid. 
Genesis29:25 But in the morning [Jacob saw his wife, and] behold, it was Leah! And he said to Laban, What is this you have done to me? Did I not work for you [all those seven years] for Rachel? Why then have you deceived and cheated and thrown me down [like this]?" 
Genesis29:26 And Laban said, It is not permitted in our country to give the younger [in marriage] before the elder." 
Genesis29:27 Finish the [wedding feast] week [for Leah]; then we will give you [Rachel] also, and you shall work for me yet seven more years in return." 
Genesis29:28 So Jacob complied and fulfilled [Leah's] week; then [Laban] gave him Rachel his daughter as his wife. 
Genesis29:29 (And Laban gave Bilhah his maid to Rachel his daughter to be her maid.) 
Genesis29:30 And Jacob lived with Rachel also as his wife, and he loved Rachel more than Leah and served [Laban] another seven years [for her]." 
Genesis29:31 And when the Lord saw that Leah was despised, He made her able to bear children, but Rachel was barren." 
Genesis29:32 And Leah became pregnant and bore a son and named him Reuben [See, a son!]; for she said, Because the Lord has seen my humiliation and affliction; now my husband will love me." 
Genesis29:33 [Leah] became pregnant again and bore a son and said, Because the Lord heard that I am despised, He has given me this son also; and she named him Simeon [God hears]." 
Genesis29:34 And she became pregnant again and bore a son and said, Now this time will my husband be a companion to me, for I have borne him three sons. Therefore he was named Levi [companion]." 
Genesis29:35 Again she conceived and bore a son, and she said, Now will I praise the Lord! So she called his name Judah [praise]; then [for a time] she ceased bearing." 
Genesis30:1 WHEN RACHEL saw that she bore Jacob no children, she envied her sister, and said to Jacob, Give me children, or else I will die!" 
Genesis30:2 And Jacob became very angry with Rachel and he said, Am I in God's stead, Who has denied you children?" 
Genesis30:3 And she said, See here, take my maid Bilhah and have intercourse with her; and [when the baby comes] she shall deliver it upon my knees, that I by her may also have children." 
Genesis30:4 And she gave him Bilhah her maid as a [secondary] wife, and Jacob had intercourse with her." 
Genesis30:5 And Bilhah became pregnant and bore Jacob a son. 
Genesis30:6 And Rachel said, God has judged and vindicated me, and has heard my plea and has given me a son; so she named him Dan [judged]." 
Genesis30:7 And Bilhah, Rachel's maid, conceived again and bore Jacob a second son." 
Genesis30:8 And Rachel said, With mighty wrestlings [in prayer to God] I have struggled with my sister and have prevailed; so she named him [this second son Bilhah bore] Naphtali [struggled]." 
Genesis30:9 When Leah saw that she had ceased to bear, she gave Zilpah her maid to Jacob as a [secondary] wife." 
Genesis30:10 And Zilpah, Leah's maid, bore Jacob a son." 
Genesis30:11 Then Leah said, Victory and good fortune have come; and she named him Gad [fortune]." 
Genesis30:12 Zilpah, Leah's maid, bore Jacob [her] second son." 
Genesis30:13 And Leah said, I am happy, for women will call me blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied); and she named him Asher [happy]." 
Genesis30:14 Now Reuben went at the time of wheat harvest and found some mandrakes (love apples) in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray you, some of your son's mandrakes." 
Genesis30:15 But [Leah] answered, Is it not enough that you have taken my husband without your taking away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Jacob shall sleep with you tonight [in exchange] for your son's mandrakes." 
Genesis30:16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him and said, You must sleep with me [tonight], for I have certainly paid your hire with my son's mandrakes. So he slept with her that night." 
Genesis30:17 And God heeded Leah's [prayer], and she conceived and bore Jacob [her] fifth son." 
Genesis30:18 Leah said, God has given me my hire, because I have given my maid to my husband; and she called his name Issachar [hired]." 
Genesis30:19 And Leah became pregnant again and bore Jacob [her] sixth son. 
Genesis30:20 Then Leah said, God has endowed me with a good marriage gift [for my husband]; now will he dwell with me [and regard me as his wife in reality], because I have borne him six sons; and she named him Zebulun [dwelling]." 
Genesis30:21 Afterwards she bore a daughter and called her Dinah. 
Genesis30:22 Then God remembered Rachel and answered her pleading and made it possible for her to have children. 
Genesis30:23 And [now for the first time] she became pregnant and bore a son; and she said, God has taken away my reproach, disgrace, and humiliation." 
Genesis30:24 And she called his name Joseph [may he add] and said, May the Lord add to me another son." 
Genesis30:25 When Rachel had borne Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, Send me away, that I may go to my own place and country." 
Genesis30:26 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served you, and let me go; for you know the work which I have done for you." 
Genesis30:27 And Laban said to him, If I have found favor in your sight, I pray you [do not go]; for I have learned by experience and from the omens in divination that the Lord has favored me with blessings on your account." 
Genesis30:28 He said, State your salary and I will give it." 
Genesis30:29 Jacob answered him, You know how I have served you, and how your possessions, your cattle and sheep and goats, have fared with me." 
Genesis30:30 For you had little before I came, and it has increased and multiplied abundantly; and the Lord has favored you with blessings wherever I turned. But now, when shall I provide for my own house also?" 
Genesis30:31 [Laban] said, What shall I give you? And Jacob said, You shall not give me anything, if you will do this one thing for me [of which I am about to tell you], and I will again feed and take care of your flock." 
Genesis30:32 Let me pass through all your flock today, removing from it every speckled and spotted animal and every black one among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats; and such shall be my wages." 
Genesis30:33 So later when the matter of my wages is brought before you, my fair dealing will be evident and answer for me. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats and black among the sheep, if found with me, shall be counted as stolen." 
Genesis30:34 And Laban said, Good; let it be done as you say." 
Genesis30:35 But that same day [Laban] removed the he-goats that were streaked and spotted and all the she-goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had white on it, and every black lamb, and put them in charge of his sons." 
Genesis30:36 And he set [a distance of] three days' journey between himself and Jacob; and Jacob was then left in care of the rest of Laban's flock. 
Genesis30:37 But Jacob took fresh rods of poplar and almond and plane trees and peeled white streaks in them, exposing the white in the rods." 
Genesis30:38 Then he set the rods which he had peeled in front of the flocks in the watering troughs where the flocks came to drink. And since they bred and conceived when they came to drink," 
Genesis30:39 The flocks bred and conceived in sight of the rods and brought forth lambs and kids streaked, speckled, and spotted." 
Genesis30:40 Jacob separated the lambs, and [as he had done with the peeled rods] he also set the faces of the flocks toward the streaked and all the dark in the [new] flock of Laban; and he put his own droves by themselves and did not let them breed with Laban's flock." 
Genesis30:41 And whenever the stronger animals were breeding, Jacob laid the rods in the watering troughs before the eyes of the flock, that they might breed and conceive among the rods." 
Genesis30:42 But when the sheep and goats were feeble, he omitted putting the rods there; so the feebler animals were Laban's and the stronger Jacob's." 
Genesis30:43 Thus the man increased and became exceedingly rich, and had many sheep and goats, and maidservants, menservants, camels, and donkeys." 
Genesis31:1 JACOB HEARD Laban's sons complaining, Jacob has taken away all that was our father's; he has acquired all this wealth and honor from what belonged to our father." 
Genesis31:2 And Jacob noticed that Laban looked at him less favorably than before. 
Genesis31:3 Then the Lord said to Jacob, Return to the land of your fathers and to your people, and I will be with you." 
Genesis31:4 So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field to his flock," 
Genesis31:5 And he said to them, I see how your father looks at me, that he is not [friendly] toward me as before; but the God of my father has been with me." 
Genesis31:6 You know that I have served your father with all my might and power. 
Genesis31:7 But your father has deceived me and changed my wages ten times, but God did not allow him to hurt me." 
Genesis31:8 If he said, The speckled shall be your wages, then all the flock bore speckled; and if he said, The streaked shall be your hire, then all the flock bore streaked." 
Genesis31:9 Thus God has taken away the flocks of your father and given them to me. 
Genesis31:10 And I had a dream at the time the flock conceived. I looked up and saw that the rams which mated with the she-goats were streaked, speckled, and spotted." 
Genesis31:11 And the Angel of God said to me in the dream, Jacob. And I said, Here am I." 
Genesis31:12 And He said, Look up and see, all the rams which mate with the flock are streaked, speckled, and mottled; for I have seen all that Laban does to you." 
Genesis31:13 I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed the pillar and where you vowed a vow to Me. Now arise, get out from this land and return to your native land." 
Genesis31:14 And Rachel and Leah answered him, Is there any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house?" 
Genesis31:15 Are we not counted by him as strangers? For he sold us and has also quite devoured our money [the price you paid for us]. 
Genesis31:16 For all the riches which God has taken from our father are ours and our children's. Now then, whatever God has said to you, do it." 
Genesis31:17 Then Jacob rose up and set his sons and his wives upon the camels; 
Genesis31:18 And he drove away all his livestock and all his gain which he had gotten, the livestock he had obtained and accumulated in Padan-aram, to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis31:19 Now Laban had gone to shear his sheep [possibly to the feast of sheepshearing], and Rachel stole her father's household gods." 
Genesis31:20 And Jacob outwitted Laban the Syrian [Aramean] in that he did not tell him that he [intended] to flee and slip away secretly. 
Genesis31:21 So he fled with all that he had, and arose and crossed the river [Euphrates] and set his face toward the hill country of Gilead." 
Genesis31:22 But on the third day Laban was told that Jacob had fled. 
Genesis31:23 So he took his kinsmen with him and pursued after [Jacob] for seven days, and they overtook him in the hill country of Gilead." 
Genesis31:24 But God came to Laban the Syrian [Aramean] in a dream by night and said to him, Be careful that you do not speak from good to bad to Jacob [peaceably, then violently]." 
Genesis31:25 Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent on the hill, and Laban coming with his kinsmen pitched [his tents] on the same hill of Gilead." 
Genesis31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What do you mean stealing away and leaving like this without my knowing it, and carrying off my daughters as if captives of the sword?" 
Genesis31:27 Why did you flee secretly and cheat me and did not tell me, so that I might have sent you away with joy and gladness and with singing, with tambourine and lyre?" 
Genesis31:28 And why did you not permit me to kiss my sons [grandchildren] and my daughters good-bye? Now you have done foolishly [in behaving like this]. 
Genesis31:29 It is in my power to do you harm; but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, Be careful that you do not speak from good to bad to Jacob [peaceably, then violently]." 
Genesis31:30 And now you felt you must go because you were homesick for your father's house, but why did you steal my [household] gods?" 
Genesis31:31 Jacob answered Laban, Because I was afraid; for I thought, Suppose you would take your daughters from me by force." 
Genesis31:32 The one with whom you find those gods of yours, let him not live. Here before our kinsmen [search my possessions and] take whatever you find that belongs to you. For Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen [the images]." 
Genesis31:33 So Laban went into Jacob's tent and into Leah's tent and the tent of the two maids, but he did not find them. Then he went from Leah's tent into Rachel's tent." 
Genesis31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images (gods) and put them in the camel's saddle and sat on them. Laban searched and felt through all the tent, but did not find them." 
Genesis31:35 And [Rachel] said to her father, Do not be displeased, my lord, that I cannot rise up before you, for the period of women is upon me and I am unwell. And he searched, but did not find the gods." 
Genesis31:36 Then Jacob became angry and reproached and argued with Laban. And Jacob said to Laban, What is my fault? What is my sin, that you so hotly pursued me?" 
Genesis31:37 Although you have searched and felt through all my household possessions, what have you found of all your household goods? Put it here before my brethren and yours, that they may judge and decide between us." 
Genesis31:38 These twenty years I have been with you; your ewes and your she-goats have not lost their young, and the rams of your flock have not been eaten by me." 
Genesis31:39 I did not bring you [the carcasses of the animals] torn by wild beasts; I bore the loss of it; you required of me [to make good] all that was stolen, whether it occurred by day or by night." 
Genesis31:40 This was [my lot]; by day the heat consumed me and by night the cold, and I could not sleep." 
Genesis31:41 I have been twenty years in your house. I served you fourteen years for your two daughters and six years for your flocks; and you have changed my wages ten times. 
Genesis31:42 And if the God of my father, the God of Abraham and the Dread [lest he should fall] and Fear [lest he offend] of Isaac, had not been with me, surely you would have sent me away now empty-handed. God has seen my affliction and humiliation and the [wearying] labor of my hands and rebuked you last night." 
Genesis31:43 Laban answered Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, these children are my children, these flocks are my flocks, and all that you see is mine. But what can I do today to these my daughters or to their children whom they have borne?" 
Genesis31:44 So come now, let us make a covenant or league, you and I, and let it be for a witness between you and me." 
Genesis31:45 So Jacob set up a stone for a pillar or monument. 
Genesis31:46 And Jacob said to his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones and made a heap, and they ate [together] there upon the heap. [Prov. 16:7.]" 
Genesis31:47 Laban called it Jegar-sahadutha [witness heap, in Aramaic], but Jacob called it Galeed [witness heap, in Hebrew.]" 
Genesis31:48 Laban said, This heap is a witness today between you and me. Therefore it was named Galeed." 
Genesis31:49 And [the pillar or monument was called] Mizpah [watchpost], for he [Laban] said, May the Lord watch between you and me when we are absent and hidden one from another." 
Genesis31:50 If you should afflict, humiliate, or lower [divorce] my daughters, or if you should take other wives beside my daughters, although no man is with us [to witness], see (remember), God is witness between you and me." 
Genesis31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, See this heap and this pillar, which I have set up between you and me." 
Genesis31:52 This heap is a witness and this pillar is a witness, that I will not pass by this heap to you, and that you will not pass by this heap and this pillar to me, for harm." 
Genesis31:53 The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, and the god [the object of worship] of their father [Terah, an idolator], judge between us. But Jacob swore [only] by [the one true God] the Dread and Fear of his father Isaac. [Josh. 24:2.]" 
Genesis31:54 Then Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain and called his brethren to eat food; and they ate food and lingered all night on the mountain. 
Genesis31:55 And early in the morning Laban rose up and kissed his grandchildren and his daughters and pronounced a blessing [asking God's favor] on them. Then Laban departed and returned to his home. 
Genesis32:1 THEN JACOB went on his way, and God's angels met him." 
Genesis32:2 When Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's army! So he named that place Mahanaim [two armies]. [Gen. 32:7, 10.]" 
Genesis32:3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir, the country of Edom." 
Genesis32:4 And he commanded them, Say this to my lord Esau: Your servant Jacob says this: I have been living temporarily with Laban and have stayed there till now." 
Genesis32:5 And I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, menservants, and women servants; and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find mercy and kindness in your sight." 
Genesis32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau; and now he is [on the way] to meet you, and four hundred men are with him." 
Genesis32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed; and he divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels, into two groups," 
Genesis32:8 Thinking, If Esau comes to the one group and smites it, then the other group which is left will escape." 
Genesis32:9 Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, the Lord Who said to me, Return to your country and to your people and I will do you good," 
Genesis32:10 I am not worthy of the least of all the mercy and loving-kindness and all the faithfulness which You have shown to Your servant, for with [only] my staff I passed over this Jordan [long ago], and now I have become two companies." 
Genesis32:11 Deliver me, I pray You, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau; for I fear him, lest he come and smite [us all], the mothers with the children." 
Genesis32:12 And You said, I will surely do you good and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude." 
Genesis32:13 And Jacob lodged there that night and took from what he had with him as a present for his brother Esau: 
Genesis32:14 Two hundred she-goats, 20 he-goats, 200 ewes, 20 rams," 
Genesis32:15 Thirty milk camels with their colts, 40 cows, 10 bulls, 20 she-donkeys, and 10 [donkey] colts." 
Genesis32:16 And he put them into the charge of his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, Pass over before me and put a space between drove and drove." 
Genesis32:17 And he commanded the first, When Esau my brother meets you and asks to whom you belong, where you are going, and whose are the animals before you," 
Genesis32:18 Then you shall say, They are your servant Jacob's; it is a present sent to my lord Esau; and moreover, he is behind us." 
Genesis32:19 And so he commanded the second and the third and all that followed the droves, saying, This is what you are to say to Esau when you meet him." 
Genesis32:20 And say, Moreover, your servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will accept me." 
Genesis32:21 So the present went on before him, and he himself lodged that night in the camp." 
Genesis32:22 But he rose up that [same] night and took his two wives, his two women servants, and his eleven sons and passed over the ford [of the] Jabbok." 
Genesis32:23 And he took them and sent them across the brook; also he sent over all that he had. 
Genesis32:24 And Jacob was left alone, and a Man wrestled with him until daybreak." 
Genesis32:25 And when [the Man] saw that He did not prevail against [Jacob], He touched the hollow of his thigh; and Jacob's thigh was put out of joint as he wrestled with Him." 
Genesis32:26 Then He said, Let Me go, for day is breaking. But [Jacob] said, I will not let You go unless You declare a blessing upon me." 
Genesis32:27 [The Man] asked him, What is your name? And [in shock of realization, whispering] he said, Jacob [supplanter, schemer, trickster, swindler]!" 
Genesis32:28 And He said, Your name shall be called no more Jacob [supplanter], but Israel [contender with God]; for you have contended and have power with God and with men and have prevailed. [Hos. 12:3-4.]" 
Genesis32:29 Then Jacob asked Him, Tell me, I pray You, what [in contrast] is Your name? But He said, Why is it that you ask My name? And [the Angel of God declared] a blessing on [Jacob] there." 
Genesis32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel [the face of God], saying, For I have seen God face to face, and my life is spared and not snatched away." 
Genesis32:31 And as he passed Penuel [Peniel], the sun rose upon him, and he was limping because of his thigh." 
Genesis32:32 That is why to this day the Israelites do not eat the sinew of the hip which is on the hollow of the thigh, because [the Angel of the Lord] touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh on the sinew of the hip." 
Genesis33:1 AND JACOB raised his eyes and looked, and behold, Esau was coming and with him 400 men. So he divided the children to Leah and to Rachel and to the two maids." 
Genesis33:2 And he put the maids and their children in front, Leah and her children after them, and Rachel and Joseph last of all." 
Genesis33:3 Then Jacob went over [the stream] before them and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother." 
Genesis33:4 But Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept. [Luke 15:20.]" 
Genesis33:5 [Esau] looked up and saw the women and the children and said, Who are these with you? And [Jacob] replied, They are the children whom God has graciously given your servant." 
Genesis33:6 Then the maids came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves." 
Genesis33:7 And Leah also with her children came near, and they bowed themselves. After them Joseph and Rachel came near, and they bowed themselves." 
Genesis33:8 Esau said, What do you mean by all this company which I met? And he said, These are that I might find favor in the sight of my lord." 
Genesis33:9 And Esau said, I have plenty, my brother; keep what you have for yourself." 
Genesis33:10 But Jacob replied, No, I beg of you, if now I have found favor in your sight, receive my gift that I am presenting; for truly to see your face is to me as if I had seen the face of God, and you have received me favorably." 
Genesis33:11 Accept, I beg of you, my blessing and gift that I have brought to you; for God has dealt graciously with me and I have everything. And he kept urging him and he accepted it." 
Genesis33:12 Then [Esau] said, Let us get started on our journey, and I will go before you." 
Genesis33:13 But Jacob replied, You know, my lord, that the children are tender and delicate and need gentle care, and the flocks and herds with young are of concern to me; for if the men should overdrive them for a single day, the whole of the flocks would die." 
Genesis33:14 Let my lord, I pray you, pass over before his servant; and I will lead on slowly, governed by [consideration for] the livestock that set the pace before me and the endurance of the children, until I come to my lord in Seir." 
Genesis33:15 Then Esau said, Let me now leave with you some of the people who are with me. But [Jacob] said, What need is there for it? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord." 
Genesis33:16 So Esau turned back that day on his way to Seir. 
Genesis33:17 But Jacob journeyed to Succoth and built himself a house and made booths or places of shelter for his livestock; so the name of the place is called Succoth [booths]. 
Genesis33:18 When Jacob came from Padan-aram, he arrived safely and in peace at the town of Shechem, in the land of Canaan, and pitched his tents before the [enclosed] town." 
Genesis33:19 Then he bought the piece of land on which he had encamped from the sons of Hamor, Shechem's father, for a hundred pieces of money." 
Genesis33:20 There he erected an altar and called it El-Elohe-Israel [God, the God of Israel]." 
Genesis34:1 NOW DINAH daughter of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob, went out [unattended] to see the girls of the place." 
Genesis34:2 And when Shechem son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he seized her, lay with her, and humbled, defiled, and disgraced her." 
Genesis34:3 But his soul longed for and clung to Dinah daughter of Jacob, and he loved the girl and spoke comfortingly to her young heart's wishes." 
Genesis34:4 And Shechem said to his father Hamor, Get me this girl to be my wife." 
Genesis34:5 Jacob heard that [Shechem] had defiled Dinah his daughter. Now his sons were with his livestock in the field. So Jacob held his peace until they came. 
Genesis34:6 But Hamor father of Shechem went out to Jacob to have a talk with him. 
Genesis34:7 When Jacob's sons heard it, they came from the field; and they were distressed and grieved and very angry, for [Shechem] had done a vile thing to Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter, which ought not to be done." 
Genesis34:8 And Hamor conferred with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem craves your daughter [and sister]. I beg of you give her to him to be his wife." 
Genesis34:9 And make marriages with us and give your daughters to us and take our daughters to you. 
Genesis34:10 You shall dwell with us; the country will be open to you; live and trade and get your possessions in it. 
Genesis34:11 And Shechem said to [Dinah's] father and to her brothers, Let me find favor in your eyes, and I will give you whatever you ask of me." 
Genesis34:12 Ask me ever so much dowry and [marriage] gift, and I will give according to what you tell me; only give me the girl to be my wife." 
Genesis34:13 The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, [justifying their intended action by saying, in effect, we are going to do this] because Shechem had defiled and disgraced their sister Dinah." 
Genesis34:14 They said to them, We cannot do this thing and give our sister to one who is not circumcised, for that would be a reproach and disgrace to us." 
Genesis34:15 But we do consent to do this: if you will become as we are and every male among you be circumcised," 
Genesis34:16 Then we will give our daughters to you and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you and become one people." 
Genesis34:17 But if you will not listen to us and consent to be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and go." 
Genesis34:18 Their words pleased Hamor and his son Shechem. 
Genesis34:19 And the young man did not delay to do the thing, for he delighted in Jacob's daughter. He was honored above all his family [so, ranking first, he acted first]." 
Genesis34:20 Then Hamor and Shechem his son came to the gate of their [enclosed] town and discussed the matter with the citizens, saying," 
Genesis34:21 These men are peaceable with us; so let them dwell in the land and trade in it; for the land is large enough [for us and] for them; let us take their daughters for wives and let us give them our daughters. 
Genesis34:22 But the men will consent to our request that they live among us and be one people only on condition that every male among us be circumcised, as they are." 
Genesis34:23 Shall not their cattle and their possessions and all their beasts be ours? Only let us consent to them, and they will dwell here with us." 
Genesis34:24 And all the people who went out of the town gate listened and heeded what Hamor and Shechem said; and every male was circumcised who was a resident of that town. 
Genesis34:25 But on the third day [after the circumcision] when [all the men] were sore, two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's [full] brothers, took their swords, boldly entered the city [without danger], and slew all the males." 
Genesis34:26 And they killed Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword and took Dinah out of Shechem's house [where she had been all this time] and departed. 
Genesis34:27 [Then the rest of] Jacob's [eleven] sons came upon the slain and plundered the town, because there their sister had been defiled and disgraced." 
Genesis34:28 They took their flocks, their herds, their donkeys, and whatever was in the town and in the field;" 
Genesis34:29 All their wealth and all their little ones and their wives they took captive, making spoil even of all [they found] in the houses." 
Genesis34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have ruined me, making me infamous and embroiling me with the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites and the Perizzites! And we are few in number, and they will gather together against me and attack me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my household." 
Genesis34:31 And they said, Should he [be permitted to] deal with our sister as with a harlot?" 
Genesis35:1 AND GOD said to Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. And make there an altar to God Who appeared to you [in a distinct manifestation] when you fled from the presence of Esau your brother. [Gen. 28:11-22.]" 
Genesis35:2 Then Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, Put away the [images of] strange gods that are among you, and purify yourselves and change [into fresh] garments;" 
Genesis35:3 Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, and I will make there an altar to God Who answered me in the day of my distress and was with me wherever I went." 
Genesis35:4 So they [both young men and women] gave to Jacob all the strange gods they had and their earrings which were [worn as charms against evil] in their ears; and Jacob buried and hid them under the oak near Shechem. 
Genesis35:5 And they journeyed and a terror from God fell on the towns round about them, and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob." 
Genesis35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, that is, Bethel, which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people with him." 
Genesis35:7 There he built an altar, and called the place El-bethel [God of Bethel], for there God revealed Himself to him when he fled from the presence of his brother." 
Genesis35:8 But Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died and was buried below Bethel under an oak; and the name of it was called Allon-bacuth [oak of weeping]." 
Genesis35:9 And God [in a distinctly visible manifestation] appeared to Jacob again when he came out of Padan-aram, and declared a blessing on him. [Gen. 32:28.]" 
Genesis35:10 Again God said to him, Your name is Jacob [supplanter]; you shall not be called Jacob any longer, but Israel shall be your name. So He called him Israel [contender with God]." 
Genesis35:11 And God said to him, I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall come from you and kings shall be born of your stock;" 
Genesis35:12 The land which I gave Abraham and Isaac I will give to you, and to your descendants after you I will give the land." 
Genesis35:13 Then God ascended from him in the place where He talked with him. 
Genesis35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar (monument) in the place where he talked with [God], a pillar of stone; and he poured a drink offering on it and he poured oil on it." 
Genesis35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God had talked with him Bethel [house of God]. 
Genesis35:16 And they journeyed from Bethel and had but a little way to go to Ephrath [Bethlehem] when Rachel suffered the pangs of childbirth and had hard labor. 
Genesis35:17 When she was in hard labor, the midwife said to her, Do not be afraid; you shall have this son also." 
Genesis35:18 And as her soul was departing, for she died, she called his name Ben-oni [son of my sorrow]; but his father called him Benjamin [son of the right hand]." 
Genesis35:19 So Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath, that is, Bethlehem." 
Genesis35:20 And Jacob set a pillar (monument) on her grave; that is the pillar of Rachel's grave to this day. 
Genesis35:21 Then Israel journeyed on and spread his tent on the other side of the tower of Edar. 
Genesis35:22 When Israel dwelt there, Reuben [his eldest son] went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine; and Israel heard about it. Now Jacob's sons were twelve." 
Genesis35:23 The sons of Leah: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun." 
Genesis35:24 The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis35:25 The sons of Bilhah, Rachel's maid: Dan and Naphtali." 
Genesis35:26 And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's maid: Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob born to him in Padan-aram." 
Genesis35:27 And Jacob came to Isaac his father at Mamre or Kiriath-arba, that is, Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned." 
Genesis35:28 Now the days of Isaac were 180 years. 
Genesis35:29 And Isaac's spirit departed; he died and was gathered to his people, being an old man, satisfied and satiated with days; his sons Esau and Jacob buried him." 
Genesis36:1 NOW THIS is the history of the descendants of Esau, that is, Edom." 
Genesis36:2 Esau took his wives from the women of Canaan: Adah daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Oholibamah daughter of Anah, the son of Zibeon the Hivite," 
Genesis36:3 And Basemath, Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebaioth." 
Genesis36:4 Adah bore to Esau, Eliphaz; Basemath bore Reuel;" 
Genesis36:5 And Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau born to him in Canaan." 
Genesis36:6 Now Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, his cattle, all his beasts, and all his possessions which he had obtained in the land of Canaan, and he went into a land away from his brother Jacob." 
Genesis36:7 For their great flocks and herds and possessions [which they had collected] made it impossible for them to dwell together; the land in which they were strangers could not support them because of their livestock. 
Genesis36:8 So Esau dwelt in the hill country of Seir; Esau is Edom. 
Genesis36:9 And this is the history of the descendants of Esau the father of the Edomites in the hill country of Seir. 
Genesis36:10 These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz, the son of Adah, Esau's wife, and Reuel, the son of Basemath, Esau's wife." 
Genesis36:11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz." 
Genesis36:12 And Timna was a concubine of Eliphaz, Esau's son; and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Adah, Esau's wife." 
Genesis36:13 These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife." 
Genesis36:14 And these are the sons of Oholibamah daughter of Anah, the son of Zibeon, Esau's wife. She bore to Esau: Jeush, Jalam, and Korah." 
Genesis36:15 These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau: The sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: Chiefs Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz," 
Genesis36:16 Korah, Gatam, and Amalek. These are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; they are the sons of Adah." 
Genesis36:17 These are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: Chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah. These are the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom; they are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife." 
Genesis36:18 These are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: Chiefs Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the chiefs born of Oholibamah daughter of Anah, Esau's wife." 
Genesis36:19 These are the sons of Esau, that is, Edom, and these are their chiefs." 
Genesis36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah," 
Genesis36:21 Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. These are the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir in the land of Edom." 
Genesis36:22 The sons of Lotan are Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister is Timna. 
Genesis36:23 The sons of Shobal are these: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam." 
Genesis36:24 These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. This is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness as he pastured the donkeys of Zibeon his father. 
Genesis36:25 The children of Anah are these: Dishon and Oholibamah daughter of Anah [Esau's wife]. 
Genesis36:26 These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran." 
Genesis36:27 Ezer's sons are these: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan." 
Genesis36:28 The sons of Dishan are these: Uz and Aran. 
Genesis36:29 The Horite chiefs are these: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah," 
Genesis36:30 Dishon, Ezer, Dishan. These are the Horite chiefs, according to their clans, in the land of Seir." 
Genesis36:31 And these are the kings who reigned in Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites: 
Genesis36:32 Bela son of Beor reigned in Edom. And the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
Genesis36:33 Now Bela died, and Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead." 
Genesis36:33 Now Bela died, and Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead." 
Genesis36:34 Then Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead." 
Genesis36:34 Then Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead." 
Genesis36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his stead. The name of his [enclosed] city was Avith." 
Genesis36:36 Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah succeeded him." 
Genesis36:37 Then Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the river [Euphrates] reigned in his stead." 
Genesis36:38 And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan son of Achbor reigned in his stead." 
Genesis36:39 Baal-hanan son of Achbor died, and then Hadar reigned. His [enclosed] city was Pau; his wife's name was Mehetabel daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab." 
Genesis36:40 And these are the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families and places of residence, by their names: Chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth," 
Genesis36:41 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon," 
Genesis36:42 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
Genesis36:43 Magdiel, and Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom [that is, of Esau the father of the Edomites], according to their dwelling places in their land." 
Genesis37:1 SO JACOB dwelt in the land in which his father had been a stranger and sojourner, in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis37:2 This is the history of the descendants of Jacob and this is Jacob's line. Joseph, when he was seventeen years old, was shepherding the flock with his brothers; the lad was with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father's [secondary] wives; and Joseph brought to his father a bad report of them." 
Genesis37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a [distinctive] long tunic with sleeves." 
Genesis37:4 But when his brothers saw that their father loved [Joseph] more than all of his brothers, they hated him and could not say, Peace [in friendly greeting] to him or speak peaceably to him." 
Genesis37:5 Now Joseph had a dream and he told it to his brothers, and they hated him still more." 
Genesis37:6 And he said to them, Listen now and hear, I pray you, this dream that I have dreamed:" 
Genesis37:7 We [brothers] were binding sheaves in the field, and behold, my sheaf arose and stood upright, and behold, your sheaves stood round about my sheaf and bowed down!" 
Genesis37:8 His brothers said to him, Shall you indeed reign over us? Or are you going to have us as your subjects and dominate us? And they hated him all the more for his dreams and for what he said." 
Genesis37:9 But Joseph dreamed yet another dream and told it to his brothers [also]. He said, See here, I have dreamed again, and behold, [this time not only] eleven stars [but also] the sun and the moon bowed down and did reverence to me!" 
Genesis37:10 And he told it to his father [as well as] his brethren. But his father rebuked him and said to him, What is the meaning of this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I and your mother and your brothers actually come to bow down ourselves to the earth and do homage to you?" 
Genesis37:11 Joseph's brothers envied him and were jealous of him, but his father observed the saying and pondered over it." 
Genesis37:12 Joseph's brothers went to shepherd and feed their father's flock near Shechem. 
Genesis37:13 [One day] Israel said to Joseph, Do not your brothers shepherd my flock at Shechem? Come, and I will send you to them. And he said, Here I am." 
Genesis37:14 And [Jacob] said to him, Go, I pray you, see whether everything is all right with your brothers and with the flock; then come back and bring me word. So he sent him out of the Hebron Valley, and he came to Shechem." 
Genesis37:15 And a certain man found him, and behold, he had lost his way and was wandering in the open country. The man asked him, What are you trying to find?" 
Genesis37:16 And he said, I am looking for my brothers. Tell me, I pray you, where they are pasturing our flocks." 
Genesis37:17 But the man said, [They were here, but] they have gone. I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan." 
Genesis37:18 And when they saw him far off, even before he came near to them, they conspired to kill him." 
Genesis37:19 And they said one to another, See, here comes this dreamer and master of dreams." 
Genesis37:20 So come on now, let us kill him and throw his body into some pit; then we will say [to our father], Some wild and ferocious animal has devoured him; and we shall see what will become of his dreams!" 
Genesis37:21 Now Reuben heard it and he delivered him out of their hands by saying, Let us not kill him." 
Genesis37:22 And Reuben said to them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit or well that is out here in the wilderness and lay no hand on him. He was trying to get Joseph out of their hands in order to rescue him and deliver him again to his father." 
Genesis37:23 When Joseph had come to his brothers, they stripped him of his [distinctive] long garment which he was wearing;" 
Genesis37:24 Then they took him and cast him into the [well-like] pit which was empty; there was no water in it. 
Genesis37:25 Then they sat down to eat their lunch. When they looked up, behold, they saw a caravan of Ishmaelites [mixed Arabians] coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing gum [of the styrax tree], balm (balsam), and myrrh or ladanum, going on their way to carry them down to Egypt." 
Genesis37:26 And Judah said to his brothers, What do we gain if we slay our brother and conceal his blood?" 
Genesis37:27 Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites [and Midianites, these mixed Arabians who are approaching], and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brothers consented." 
Genesis37:28 Then as the Midianite [and Ishmaelite] merchants were passing by, the brothers pulled Joseph up and lifted him out of the well. And they sold him for twenty pieces of silver to the Ishmaelites, who took Joseph [captive] into Egypt." 
Genesis37:29 Then Reuben [who had not been there when the brothers plotted to sell the lad] returned to the pit; and behold, Joseph was not in the pit, and he rent his clothes." 
Genesis37:30 He rejoined his brothers and said, The boy is not there! And I, where shall I go [to hide from my father]?" 
Genesis37:31 Then they took Joseph's [distinctive] long garment, killed a young goat, and dipped the garment in the blood;" 
Genesis37:32 And they sent the garment to their father, saying, We have found this! Examine and decide whether it is your son's tunic or not." 
Genesis37:33 He said, My son's long garment! An evil [wild] beast has devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces." 
Genesis37:34 And Jacob tore his clothes, put on sackcloth, and mourned many days for his son." 
Genesis37:35 And all his sons and daughters attempted to console him, but he refused to be comforted and said, I will go down to Sheol (the place of the dead) to my son mourning. And his father wept for him." 
Genesis37:36 And the Midianites [and Ishmaelites] sold [Joseph] in Egypt to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh and the captain and chief executioner of the [royal] guard." 
Genesis38:1 AT THAT time Judah withdrew from his brothers and went to [lodge with] a certain Adullamite named Hirah. 
Genesis38:2 There Judah saw and met a daughter of Shuah, a Canaanite; he took her as wife and lived with her." 
Genesis38:3 And she became pregnant and bore a son, and he called him Er." 
Genesis38:4 And she conceived again and bore a son and named him Onan. 
Genesis38:5 Again she conceived and bore a son and named him Shelah. [They were living] at Chezib when she bore him. 
Genesis38:6 Now Judah took a wife for Er, his firstborn; her name was Tamar." 
Genesis38:7 And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord slew him." 
Genesis38:8 Then Judah told Onan, Marry your brother's widow; live with her and raise offspring for your brother." 
Genesis38:9 But Onan knew that the family would not be his, so when he cohabited with his brother's widow, he prevented conception, lest he should raise up a child for his brother." 
Genesis38:10 And the thing which he did displeased the Lord; therefore He slew him also. 
Genesis38:11 Then Judah said to Tamar, his daughter-in-law, Remain a widow at your father's house till Shelah my [youngest] son is grown; for he thought, Lest perhaps [if Shelah should marry her] he would die also, as his brothers did. So Tamar went and lived in her father's house." 
Genesis38:12 But later Judah's wife, the daughter of Shuah, died; and when Judah was comforted, he went up to his sheepshearers at Timnath with his friend Hirah the Adullamite." 
Genesis38:13 Then it was told Tamar, Listen, your father-in-law is going up to Timnath to shear his sheep." 
Genesis38:14 So she put off her widow's garments and covered herself with a veil, wrapped herself up [in disguise], and sat in the entrance of Enaim, which is by the road to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown and she was not given to him as his wife." 
Genesis38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought she was a harlot or devoted prostitute [under a vow to her goddess], for she had covered her face [as such women did]." 
Genesis38:16 He turned to her by the road and said, Come, let me have intercourse with you; for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. And she said, What will you give me that you may have intercourse with me?" 
Genesis38:17 He answered, I will send you a kid from the flock. And she said, Will you give me a pledge (deposit) until you send it?" 
Genesis38:18 And he said, What pledge shall I give you? She said, Your signet [seal], your [signet] cord, and your staff that is in your hand. And he gave them to her and came in to her, and she became pregnant by him." 
Genesis38:19 And she arose and went away and laid aside her veil and put on the garments of her widowhood. 
Genesis38:20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive his pledge from the woman's hand; but he was unable to find her." 
Genesis38:21 He asked the men of that place, Where is the harlot or cult prostitute who was openly by the roadside? They said, There was no harlot or temple prostitute here." 
Genesis38:22 So he returned to Judah and said, I cannot find her; and also the local men said, There was no harlot or temple prostitute around here." 
Genesis38:23 And Judah said, Let her keep [the pledge articles] for herself, lest we be made ashamed. I sent this kid, but you have not found her." 
Genesis38:24 But about three months later Judah was told, Tamar your daughter-in-law has played the harlot, and also she is with child by her lewdness. And Judah said, Bring her forth and let her be burned!" 
Genesis38:25 When she was brought forth, she [took the things he had given her in pledge and] sent [them] to her father-in-law, saying, I am with child by the man to whom these articles belong. Then she added, Make out clearly, I pray you, to whom these belong, the signet [seal], [signet] cord, and staff." 
Genesis38:26 And Judah acknowledged them and said, She has been more righteous and just than I, because I did not give her to Shelah my son. And he did not cohabit with her again." 
Genesis38:27 Now when the time came for her to be delivered, behold, there were twins in her womb." 
Genesis38:28 And when she was in labor, one baby put out his hand; and the midwife took his hand and bound upon it a scarlet thread, saying, This baby was born first." 
Genesis38:29 But he drew back his hand, and behold, his brother was born first. And she said, What a breaking forth you have made for yourself! Therefore his name was called Perez [breaking forth]. [Matt. 1:3.]" 
Genesis38:30 And afterward his brother who had the scarlet thread on his hand was born and was named Zerah [scarlet]. 
Genesis39:1 AND JOSEPH was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain and chief executioner of the [royal] guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had brought him down there." 
Genesis39:2 But the Lord was with Joseph, and he [though a slave] was a successful and prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian." 
Genesis39:3 And his master saw that the Lord was with him and that the Lord made all that he did to flourish and succeed in his hand. [Gen. 21:22; 26:27, 28; 41:38, 39.]" 
Genesis39:4 So Joseph pleased [Potiphar] and found favor in his sight, and he served him. And [his master] made him supervisor over his house and he put all that he had in his charge." 
Genesis39:5 From the time that he made him supervisor in his house and over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the Lord's blessing was on all that he had in the house and in the field." 
Genesis39:6 And [Potiphar] left all that he had in Joseph's charge and paid no attention to anything he had except the food he ate. Now Joseph was an attractive person and fine-looking. 
Genesis39:7 Then after a time his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph, and she said, Lie with me." 
Genesis39:8 But he refused and said to his master's wife, See here, with me in the house my master has concern about nothing; he has put all that he has in my care." 
Genesis39:9 He is not greater in this house than I am; nor has he kept anything from me except you, for you are his wife. How then can I do this great evil and sin against God?" 
Genesis39:10 She spoke to Joseph day after day, but he did not listen to her, to lie with her or to be with her." 
Genesis39:11 Then it happened about this time that Joseph went into the house to attend to his duties, and none of the men of the house were indoors." 
Genesis39:12 And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me! But he left his garment in her hand and fled and got out [of the house]." 
Genesis39:13 And when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled away," 
Genesis39:14 She called to the men of her household and said to them, Behold, he [your master] has brought in a Hebrew to us to mock and insult us; he came in where I was to lie with me, and I screamed at the top of my voice." 
Genesis39:15 And when he heard me screaming and crying, he left his garment with me and fled and got out of the house." 
Genesis39:16 And she laid up his garment by her until his master came home. 
Genesis39:17 Then she told him the same story, saying, The Hebrew servant whom you brought among us came to me to mock and insult me." 
Genesis39:18 And when I screamed and cried, he left his garment with me and fled out [of the house]." 
Genesis39:19 And when [Joseph's] master heard the words of his wife, saying to him, This is the way your servant treated me, his wrath was kindled." 
Genesis39:20 And Joseph's master took him and put him in the prison, a place where the state prisoners were confined; so he was there in the prison." 
Genesis39:21 But the Lord was with Joseph, and showed him mercy and loving-kindness and gave him favor in the sight of the warden of the prison." 
Genesis39:22 And the warden of the prison committed to Joseph's care all the prisoners who were in the prison; and whatsoever was done there, he was in charge of it." 
Genesis39:23 The prison warden paid no attention to anything that was in [Joseph's] charge, for the Lord was with him and made whatever he did to prosper." 
Genesis40:1 NOW SOME time later the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their lord, Egypt's king." 
Genesis40:2 And Pharaoh was angry with his officers, the chief of the butlers and the chief of the bakers." 
Genesis40:3 He put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison where Joseph was confined." 
Genesis40:4 And the captain of the guard put them in Joseph's charge, and he served them; and they continued in custody for some time." 
Genesis40:5 And they both dreamed a dream in the same night, each man according to [the personal significance of] the interpretation of his dream,the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison." 
Genesis40:6 When Joseph came to them in the morning and looked at them, he saw that they were sad and depressed." 
Genesis40:7 So he asked Pharaoh's officers who were in custody with him in his master's house, Why do you look so dejected and sad today?" 
Genesis40:8 And they said to him, We have dreamed dreams, and there is no one to interpret them. And Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me [your dreams], I pray you." 
Genesis40:9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream I saw a vine before me," 
Genesis40:10 And on the vine were three branches. Then it was as though it budded; its blossoms burst forth and the clusters of them brought forth ripe grapes [almost all at once]. 
Genesis40:11 And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup; then I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand." 
Genesis40:12 And Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days." 
Genesis40:13 Within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your position, and you will again put Pharaoh's cup into his hand, as when you were his butler." 
Genesis40:14 But think of me when it shall be well with you and show kindness, I beg of you, to me, and mention me to Pharaoh and get me out of this house." 
Genesis40:15 For truly I was carried away from the land of the Hebrews by unlawful force, and here too I have done nothing for which they should put me into the dungeon." 
Genesis40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, I also dreamed, and behold, I had three cake baskets on my head." 
Genesis40:17 And in the uppermost basket were some of all kinds of baked food for Pharaoh, but the birds [of prey] were eating out of the basket on my head." 
Genesis40:18 And Joseph answered, This is the interpretation of it: The three baskets are three days." 
Genesis40:19 Within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head but will have you beheaded and hung on a tree, and [you will not so much as be given burial, but] the birds will eat your flesh." 
Genesis40:20 And on the third day, Pharaoh's birthday, he made a feast for all his servants; and he lifted up the heads of the chief butler and the chief baker [by inviting them also] among his servants." 
Genesis40:21 And he restored the chief butler to his butlership, and the butler gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand;" 
Genesis40:22 But [Pharaoh] hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them." 
Genesis40:23 But [even after all that] the chief butler gave no thought to Joseph, but forgot [all about] him." 
Genesis41:1 AFTER TWO full years, Pharaoh dreamed that he stood by the river [Nile]." 
Genesis41:2 And behold, there came up out of the river [Nile] seven well-favored cows, sleek and handsome and fat; and they grazed in the reed grass [in a marshy pasture]." 
Genesis41:3 And behold, seven other cows came up after them out of the river [Nile], ill favored and gaunt and ugly, and stood by the fat cows on the bank of the river [Nile]." 
Genesis41:4 And the ill-favored, gaunt, and ugly cows ate up the seven well-favored and fat cows. Then Pharaoh awoke." 
Genesis41:5 But he slept and dreamed the second time; and behold, seven ears of grain came out on one stalk, plump and good." 
Genesis41:6 And behold, after them seven ears [of grain] sprouted, thin and blighted by the east wind." 
Genesis41:7 And the seven thin ears [of grain] devoured the seven plump and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream." 
Genesis41:8 So when morning came his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians and all the wise men of Egypt. And Pharaoh told them his dreams, but not one could interpret them to [him]." 
Genesis41:9 Then the chief butler said to Pharaoh, I remember my faults today." 
Genesis41:10 When Pharaoh was angry with his servants and put me in custody in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker," 
Genesis41:11 We dreamed a dream in the same night, he and I; we dreamed each of us according to [the significance of] the interpretation of his dream." 
Genesis41:12 And there was there with us a young man, a Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard and chief executioner; and we told him our dreams, and he interpreted them to us, to each man according to the significance of his dream." 
Genesis41:13 And as he interpreted to us, so it came to pass; I was restored to my office [as chief butler], and the baker was hanged." 
Genesis41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon. But Joseph [first] shaved himself, changed his clothes, and made himself presentable; then he came into Pharaoh's presence." 
Genesis41:15 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it; and I have heard it said of you that you can understand a dream and interpret it." 
Genesis41:16 Joseph answered Pharaoh, It is not in me; God [not I] will give Pharaoh a [favorable] answer of peace." 
Genesis41:17 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood on the bank of the river [Nile];" 
Genesis41:18 And behold, there came up out of the river [Nile] seven fat, sleek, and handsome cows, and they grazed in the reed grass [of a marshy pasture]." 
Genesis41:19 And behold, seven other cows came up after them, undernourished, gaunt, and ugly [just skin and bones; such emaciated animals] as I have never seen in all of Egypt." 
Genesis41:20 And the lean and ill favored cows ate up the seven fat cows that had come first. 
Genesis41:21 And when they had eaten them up, it could not be detected and known that they had eaten them, for they were still as thin and emaciated as at the beginning. Then I awoke. [But again I fell asleep and dreamed.]" 
Genesis41:22 And I saw in my dream, and behold, seven ears [of grain] growing on one stalk, plump and good." 
Genesis41:23 And behold, seven [other] ears, withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind, sprouted after them." 
Genesis41:24 And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears. Now I told this to the magicians, but there was no one who could tell me what it meant." 
Genesis41:25 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, The [two] dreams are one; God has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do." 
Genesis41:26 The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears [of grain] are seven years; the [two] dreams are one [in their meaning]." 
Genesis41:27 And the seven thin and ill favored cows that came up after them are seven years, and also the seven empty ears [of grain], blighted and shriveled by the east wind; they are seven years of hunger and famine." 
Genesis41:28 This is the message just as I have told Pharaoh: God has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do. 
Genesis41:29 Take note! Seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt are coming. 
Genesis41:30 Then there will come seven years of hunger and famine, and [there will be so much want that] all the great abundance of the previous years will be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and hunger (destitution, starvation) will exhaust (consume, finish) the land." 
Genesis41:31 And the plenty will become quite unknown in the land because of that following famine, for it will be very woefully severe." 
Genesis41:32 That the dream was sent twice to Pharaoh and in two forms indicates that this thing which God will very soon bring to pass is fully prepared and established by God. 
Genesis41:33 So now let Pharaoh seek out and provide a man discreet, understanding, proficient, and wise and set him over the land of Egypt [as governor]." 
Genesis41:34 Let Pharaoh do this; then let him select and appoint officers over the land, and take one-fifth [of the produce] of the [whole] land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years [year by year]." 
Genesis41:35 And let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming and lay up grain under the direction and authority of Pharaoh, and let them retain food [in fortified granaries] in the cities." 
Genesis41:36 And that food shall be put in store for the country against the seven years of hunger and famine that are to come upon the land of Egypt, so that the land may not be ruined and cut off by the famine." 
Genesis41:37 And the plan seemed good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants. 
Genesis41:38 And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find this man's equal, a man in whom is the spirit of God?" 
Genesis41:39 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Forasmuch as [your] God has shown you all this, there is nobody as intelligent and discreet and understanding and wise as you are." 
Genesis41:40 You shall have charge over my house, and all my people shall be governed according to your word [with reverence, submission, and obedience]. Only in matters of the throne will I be greater than you are." 
Genesis41:41 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:42 And Pharaoh took off his [signet] ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in [official] vestments of fine linen and put a gold chain about his neck;" 
Genesis41:43 He made him to ride in the second chariot which he had, and [officials] cried before him, Bow the knee! And he set him over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:44 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without you shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphenath-paneah and he gave him Asenath daughter of Potiphera, priest of On, to be his wife. And Joseph made an [inspection] tour of all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:46 Joseph [who had been in Egypt thirteen years] was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went [about his duties] through all the land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:47 In the seven abundant years the earth brought forth by handfuls [for each seed planted]. 
Genesis41:48 And he gathered up all the [surplus] food of the seven [good] years in the land of Egypt and stored up the food in the cities; he stored away in each city the food from the fields around it. 
Genesis41:49 And Joseph gathered grain as the sand of the sea, very much, until he stopped counting, for it could not be measured." 
Genesis41:50 Now to Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, whom Asenath daughter of Potiphera, the priest of On, bore to him." 
Genesis41:51 And Joseph called the firstborn Manasseh [making to forget], For God, said he, has made me forget all my toil and hardship and all my father's house." 
Genesis41:52 And the second he called Ephraim [to be fruitful], For [he said] God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction." 
Genesis41:53 When the seven years of plenty were ended in the land of Egypt," 
Genesis41:54 The seven years of scarcity and famine began to come, as Joseph had said they would; the famine was in all [the surrounding] lands, but in all of Egypt there was food." 
Genesis41:55 But when all the land of Egypt was weakened with hunger, the people [there] cried to Pharaoh for food; and Pharaoh said to [them] all, Go to Joseph; what he says to you, do." 
Genesis41:56 When the famine was over all the land, Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians; for the famine grew extremely distressing in the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:57 And all countries came to Egypt to Joseph to buy grain, because the famine was severe over all [the known] earth." 
Genesis42:1 NOW WHEN Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt, he said to his sons, Why do you look at one another?" 
Genesis42:2 For, he said, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; get down there and buy [grain] for us, that we may live and not die." 
Genesis42:3 So ten of Joseph's brethren went to buy grain in Egypt. 
Genesis42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph's [full] brother, Jacob did not send with his brothers; for he said, Lest perhaps some harm or injury should befall him." 
Genesis42:5 So the sons of Israel came to buy grain among those who came, for there was hunger and general lack of food in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis42:6 Now Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was who sold to all the people of the land; and Joseph's [half] brothers came and bowed themselves down before him with their faces to the ground." 
Genesis42:7 Joseph saw his brethren and he recognized them, but he treated them as if he were a stranger to them and spoke roughly to them. He said, Where do you come from? And they replied, From the land of Canaan to buy food." 
Genesis42:8 Joseph knew his brethren, but they did not know him." 
Genesis42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams he had dreamed about them and said to them, You are spies and with unfriendly purpose you have come to observe [secretly] the nakedness of the land." 
Genesis42:10 But they said to him, No, my lord, but your servants have come [only] to buy food." 
Genesis42:11 We are all one man's sons; we are true men; your servants are not spies. 
Genesis42:12 And he said to them, No, but you have come to see the nakedness of the land." 
Genesis42:13 But they said, Your servants are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; the youngest is today with our father, and one is not." 
Genesis42:14 And Joseph said to them, It is as I said to you, You are spies." 
Genesis42:15 You shall be proved by this test: by the life of Pharaoh, you shall not go away from here unless your youngest brother comes here." 
Genesis42:16 Send one of you and let him bring your brother, and you will be kept in prison, that your words may be proved whether there is any truth in you; or else by the life of Pharaoh you certainly are spies." 
Genesis42:17 Then he put them all in custody for three days. 
Genesis42:18 And Joseph said to them on the third day, Do this and live! I reverence and fear God." 
Genesis42:19 If you are true men, let one of your brothers be bound in your prison, but [the rest of] you go and carry grain for those weakened with hunger in your households." 
Genesis42:20 But bring your youngest brother to me, so your words will be verified and you shall live. And they did so." 
Genesis42:21 And they said one to another, We are truly guilty about our brother, for we saw the distress and anguish of his soul when he begged us [to let him go], and we would not hear. So this distress and difficulty has come upon us." 
Genesis42:22 Reuben answered them, Did I not tell you, Do not sin against the boy, and you would not hear? Therefore, behold, his blood is required [of us]." 
Genesis42:23 But they did not know that Joseph understood them, for he spoke to them through an interpreter." 
Genesis42:24 And he turned away from them and wept; then he returned to them and talked with them, and took from them Simeon and bound him before their eyes." 
Genesis42:25 Then [privately] Joseph commanded that their sacks be filled with grain, every man's money be restored to his sack, and provisions be given to them for the journey. And this was done for them." 
Genesis42:26 They loaded their donkeys with grain and left. 
Genesis42:27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the lodging place, he caught sight of his money; for behold, it was in his sack's mouth." 
Genesis42:28 And he said to his brothers, My money is restored! Here it is in my sack! And their hearts failed them and they were afraid and turned trembling one to another, saying, What is this that God has done to us?" 
Genesis42:29 When they came to Jacob their father in Canaan, they told him all that had befallen them, saying," 
Genesis42:30 The man who is the lord of the land spoke roughly to us and took us for spies of the country. 
Genesis42:31 And we said to him, We are true men, not spies." 
Genesis42:32 We are twelve brothers with the same father; one is no more, and the youngest is today with our father in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis42:33 And the man, the lord of the country, said to us, By this test I will know whether or not you are honest men: leave one of your brothers here with me and take grain for your famishing households and be gone." 
Genesis42:34 Bring your youngest brother to me; then I will know that you are not spies, but that you are honest men. And I will deliver to you your brother [whom I have kept bound in prison], and you may do business in the land." 
Genesis42:35 When they emptied their sacks, behold, every man's parcel of money was in his sack! When both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid." 
Genesis42:36 And Jacob their father said to them, You have bereaved me! Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and you would take Benjamin from me. All these things are against me!" 
Genesis42:37 And Reuben said to his father, Slay my two sons if I do not bring [Benjamin] back to you. Deliver him into my keeping, and I will bring him back to you." 
Genesis42:38 But [Jacob] said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead and he alone is left [of his mother's children]; if harm or accident should befall him on the journey you are to take, you would bring my hoary head down to Sheol (the place of the dead) with grief." 
Genesis43:1 BUT THE hunger and destitution and starvation were very severe and extremely distressing in the land [Canaan]. 
Genesis43:2 And when [the families of Jacob's sons] had eaten up the grain which the men had brought from Egypt, their father said to them, Go again; buy us a little food." 
Genesis43:3 But Judah said to him, The man solemnly and sternly warned us, saying, You shall not see my face again unless your brother is with you." 
Genesis43:4 If you will send our brother with us, we will go down [to Egypt] and buy you food;" 
Genesis43:5 But if you will not send him, we will not go down; for the man said to us, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you." 
Genesis43:6 And Israel said, Why did you do me such a wrong and suffer this evil to come upon me by telling the man that you had another brother?" 
Genesis43:7 And they said, The man asked us straightforward questions about ourselves and our relatives. He said, Is your father still alive? Have you another brother? And we answered him accordingly. How could we know that he would say, Bring your brother down here?" 
Genesis43:8 And Judah said to Israel his father, Send the lad with me and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and you and also our little ones." 
Genesis43:9 I will be security for him; you shall require him of me [personally]; if I do not bring him back to you and put him before you, then let me bear the blame forever." 
Genesis43:10 For if we had not lingered like this, surely by now we would have returned the second time." 
Genesis43:11 And their father Israel said to them, If it must be so, now do this; take of the choicest products in the land in your sacks and carry down a present to the man, a little balm (balsam) and a little honey, aromatic spices and gum (of rock rose) or ladanum, pistachio nuts, and almonds." 
Genesis43:12 And take double the [grain] money with you; and the money that was put back in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again with you; there is a possibility that [its being in your sacks] was an oversight." 
Genesis43:13 Take your brother and arise and return to the man; 
Genesis43:14 May God Almighty give you mercy and favor before the man, that he may release to you your other brother and Benjamin. If I am bereaved [of my sons], I am bereaved." 
Genesis43:15 Then the men took the present, and they took double the [grain] money with them, and Benjamin; and they arose and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph." 
Genesis43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, Bring the men into the house and kill an animal and make ready, for the men will dine with me at noon." 
Genesis43:17 And the man did as Joseph ordered and brought the men to Joseph's house. 
Genesis43:18 The men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house; and they said, We are brought in because of the money that was returned in our sacks the first time we came, so that he may find occasion to accuse and assail us, take us for slaves, and seize our donkeys." 
Genesis43:19 So they came near to the steward of Joseph's house and talked with him at the door of the house," 
Genesis43:20 And said, O sir, we came down truly the first time to buy food;" 
Genesis43:21 And when we came to the inn, we opened our sacks and there was each man's money, full weight, returned in the mouth of his sack. Now we have brought it back again." 
Genesis43:22 And we have brought down with us other money to buy food; we do not know who put our money in our sacks. 
Genesis43:23 But [the steward] said, Peace be to you, fear not; your God and the God of your father has given you treasure in your sacks. I received your money. And he brought Simeon out to them." 
Genesis43:24 And the man brought the men into Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their donkeys provender." 
Genesis43:25 And they made ready the present they had brought for Joseph before his coming at noon, for they heard that they were to dine there." 
Genesis43:26 And when Joseph came home, they brought into the house to him the present which they had with them, and bowed themselves to him to the ground." 
Genesis43:27 He asked them of their welfare and said, Is your old father well, of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?" 
Genesis43:28 And they answered, Your servant our father is in good health; he is still alive. And they bowed down their heads and made obeisance." 
Genesis43:29 And he looked up and saw his [full] brother Benjamin, his mother's [only other] son, and said, Is this your youngest brother, of whom you spoke to me? And he said, God be gracious to you, my son!" 
Genesis43:30 And Joseph hurried from the room, for his heart yearned for his brother, and he sought privacy to weep; so he entered his chamber and wept there." 
Genesis43:31 And he washed his face and went out, and, restraining himself, said, Let dinner be served." 
Genesis43:32 And [the servants] set out [the food] for [Joseph] by himself, and for [his brothers] by themselves, and for those Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, according to the Egyptian custom not to eat food with the Hebrews; for that is an abomination to the Egyptians." 
Genesis43:33 And [Joseph's brothers] were given seats before him,the eldest according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth; and the men looked at one another amazed [that so much was known about them]. 
Genesis43:34 [Joseph] took and sent helpings to them from before him, but Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of theirs. And they drank freely and were merry with him." 
Genesis44:1 AND HE commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth." 
Genesis44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, with his grain money. And [the steward] did according to what Joseph had said." 
Genesis44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys." 
Genesis44:4 When they had left the city and were not yet far away, Joseph said to his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when you overtake them, say to them, Why have you rewarded evil for good? [Why have you stolen the silver cup?]" 
Genesis44:5 Is it not my master's drinking cup with which he divines [the future]? You have done wrong in doing this. 
Genesis44:6 And the steward overtook them, and he said to them these same words." 
Genesis44:7 They said to him, Why does my lord say these things? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing!" 
Genesis44:8 Note that the money which we found in the mouths of our sacks we brought back to you from the land of Canaan. Is it likely then that we would steal from your master's house silver or gold? 
Genesis44:9 With whomever of your servants [your master's cup] is found, not only let that one die, but the rest of us will be my lord's slaves." 
Genesis44:10 And the steward said, Now let it be as you say: he with whom [the cup] is found shall be my slave, but [the rest of] you shall be blameless." 
Genesis44:11 Then quickly every man lowered his sack to the ground and every man opened his sack. 
Genesis44:12 And [the steward] searched, beginning with the eldest and stopping with the youngest; and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack." 
Genesis44:13 Then they rent their clothes; and after each man had loaded his donkey again, they returned to the city." 
Genesis44:14 Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house, for he was still there; and they fell prostrate before him." 
Genesis44:15 Joseph said to them, What is this thing that you have done? Do you not realize that such a man as I can certainly detect and know by divination [everything you do without other knowledge of it]?" 
Genesis44:16 And Judah said, What shall we say to my lord? What shall we reply? Or how shall we clear ourselves, since God has found out and exposed the iniquity of your servants? Behold, we are my lord's slaves, the rest of us as well as he with whom the cup is found." 
Genesis44:17 But [Joseph] said, God forbid that I should do that; but the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for [the rest of] you, arise and go in peace to your father." 
Genesis44:18 Then Judah came close to [Joseph] and said, O my lord, let your servant, I pray you, speak a word to you in private, and let not your anger blaze against your servant, for you are as Pharaoh [so I will speak as if directly to him]." 
Genesis44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have you a father or a brother?" 
Genesis44:20 And we said to my lord, We have a father,an old man,and a young [brother, the] child of his old age; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's [offspring], and his father loves him." 
Genesis44:21 And you said to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him." 
Genesis44:22 And we said to my lord, The lad cannot leave his father; for if he should do so, his father would die." 
Genesis44:23 And you told your servants, Unless your youngest brother comes with you, you shall not see my face again." 
Genesis44:24 And when we went back to your servant my father, we told him what my lord had said." 
Genesis44:25 And our father said, Go again and buy us a little food." 
Genesis44:26 But we said, We cannot go down. If our youngest brother is with us, then we will go down; for we may not see the man's face except our youngest brother is with us." 
Genesis44:27 And your servant my father said to us, You know that [Rachel] my wife bore me two sons:" 
Genesis44:28 And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn to pieces, and I have never seen him since." 
Genesis44:29 And if you take this son also from me, and harm or accident should befall him, you will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow and evil to Sheol (the place of the dead)." 
Genesis44:30 Now therefore, when I come to your servant my father and the lad is not with us, since his life is bound up in the lad's life and his soul knit with the lad's soul," 
Genesis44:31 When he sees that the lad is not with us, he will die; and your servants will be responsible for his death and will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol." 
Genesis44:32 For your servant became security for the lad to my father, saying, If I do not bring him to you, then I will bear the blame to my father forever." 
Genesis44:33 Now therefore, I pray you, let your servant remain instead of the youth [to be] a slave to my lord, and let the young man go home with his [half] brothers." 
Genesis44:34 For how can I go up to my father if the lad is not with me?,lest I witness the woe and the evil that will come upon my father. 
Genesis45:1 THEN JOSEPH could not restrain himself [any longer] before all those who stood by him, and he called out, Cause every man to go out from me! So no one stood there with Joseph while he made himself known to his brothers." 
Genesis45:2 And he wept and sobbed aloud, and the Egyptians [who had just left him] heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard about it." 
Genesis45:3 And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph! Is my father still alive? And his brothers could not reply, for they were distressingly disturbed and dismayed at [the startling realization that they were in] his presence." 
Genesis45:4 And Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, I pray you. And they did so. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into Egypt!" 
Genesis45:5 But now, do not be distressed and disheartened or vexed and angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me ahead of you to preserve life." 
Genesis45:6 For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are still five years more in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest." 
Genesis45:7 God sent me before you to preserve for you a posterity and to continue a remnant on the earth, to save your lives by a great escape and save for you many survivors." 
Genesis45:8 So now it was not you who sent me here, but God; and He has made me a father to Pharaoh and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis45:9 Hurry and go up to my father and tell him, Your son Joseph says this to you: God has put me in charge of all Egypt. Come down to me; do not delay." 
Genesis45:10 You will live in the land of Goshen, and you will be close to me,you and your children and your grandchildren, your flocks, your herds, and all you have." 
Genesis45:11 And there I will sustain and provide for you, so that you and your household and all that are yours may not come to poverty and want, for there are yet five [more] years of [the scarcity, hunger, and starvation of] famine." 
Genesis45:12 Now notice! Your own eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin can see that I am talking to you personally [in your language and not through an interpreter]. 
Genesis45:13 And you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt and of all that you have seen; and you shall hurry and bring my father down here. 
Genesis45:14 And he fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck." 
Genesis45:15 Moreover, he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them; and after that his brothers conversed with him." 
Genesis45:16 When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house that Joseph's brothers had come, it pleased Pharaoh and his servants well." 
Genesis45:17 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Tell your brothers this: Load your animals and return to the land of Canaan," 
Genesis45:18 And get your father and your households and come to me. And I will give you the best in the land of Egypt and you will live on the fat of the land. 
Genesis45:19 You therefore command them, saying, You do this: take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father and come." 
Genesis45:20 Also do not look with regret or concern upon your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours." 
Genesis45:21 And the sons of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them wagons, as the order of Pharaoh permitted, and gave them provisions for the journey." 
Genesis45:22 To each of them he gave changes of raiment, but to Benjamin he gave 300 pieces of silver and five changes of raiment." 
Genesis45:23 And to his father he sent as follows: ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten she-donkeys laden with grain, bread, and nourishing food and provision for his father [to supply all who were with him] on the way." 
Genesis45:24 So he sent his brothers away, and they departed, and he said to them, See that you do not disagree (get excited, quarrel) along the road." 
Genesis45:25 So they went up out of Egypt and came into the land of Canaan to Jacob their father," 
Genesis45:26 And they said to him, Joseph is still alive! And he is governor over all the land of Egypt! And Jacob's heart began to stop beating and [he almost] fainted, for he did not believe them." 
Genesis45:27 But when they told him all the words of Joseph which he had said to them, and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived [and warmth and life returned]." 
Genesis45:28 And Israel said, It is enough! Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die." 
Genesis46:1 SO ISRAEL made his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba [a place hallowed by sacred memories] and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. [Gen. 21:33; 26:23-25.] 
Genesis46:2 And God spoke to Israel in visions of the night, and said, Jacob! Jacob! And he said, Here am I." 
Genesis46:3 And He said, I am God, the God of your father; do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will there make of you a great nation." 
Genesis46:4 I will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also surely bring you [your people Israel] up again; and Joseph will put his hand upon your eyes [when they are about to close in death]." 
Genesis46:5 So Jacob arose and set out from Beersheba, and Israel's sons conveyed their father, their little ones, and their wives in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry him." 
Genesis46:6 And they took their cattle and the gains which they had acquired in the land of Canaan and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his offspring with him:" 
Genesis46:7 His sons and his sons' sons with him, his daughters and his sons' daughters,all his offspring he brought with him into Egypt." 
Genesis46:8 And these are the names of the descendants of Israel who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn." 
Genesis46:9 And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi." 
Genesis46:10 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman." 
Genesis46:11 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
Genesis46:12 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul." 
Genesis46:13 The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puvah, Iob, and Shimron." 
Genesis46:14 The sons of Zebulun: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel." 
Genesis46:15 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Padan-aram, together with his daughter Dinah. All of his sons and his daughters numbered thirty-three." 
Genesis46:16 The sons of Gad: Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli." 
Genesis46:17 The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel." 
Genesis46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, [the maid] whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter. And these she bore to Jacob,sixteen persons all told." 
Genesis46:19 The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin." 
Genesis46:20 And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath daughter of Potiphera, priest of On, bore to him." 
Genesis46:21 And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard." 
Genesis46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob,fourteen persons in all." 
Genesis46:23 The son of Dan: Hushim. 
Genesis46:24 The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem." 
Genesis46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, [the maid] whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter. And she bore these to Jacob,seven persons in all." 
Genesis46:26 All the persons who came with Jacob into Egypt,who were his own offspring, not counting the wives of Jacob's sons,were sixty-six persons all told." 
Genesis46:27 And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two persons. All the persons of the house of Jacob [including Joseph and Jacob himself], who came into Egypt, were seventy." 
Genesis46:28 And he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to direct him to Goshen and meet him there; and they came into the land of Goshen." 
Genesis46:29 Then Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to meet Israel his father in Goshen; and he presented himself and gave distinct evidence of himself to him [that he was Joseph], and [each] fell on the [other's] neck and wept on his neck a good while." 
Genesis46:30 And Israel said to Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen your face [and know] that you are still alive." 
Genesis46:31 Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, I will go up and tell Pharaoh and say to him, My brothers and my father's household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me." 
Genesis46:32 And the men are shepherds, for their occupation has been keeping livestock, and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have." 
Genesis46:33 When Pharaoh calls you and says, What is your occupation?" 
Genesis46:34 You shall say, Your servants' occupation has been as keepers of livestock from our youth until now, both we and our fathers before us,in order that you may live in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians." 
Genesis47:1 THEN JOSEPH came and told Pharaoh, My father and my brothers, with their flocks and their herds and all that they own, have come from the land of Canaan, and they are in the land of Goshen." 
Genesis47:2 And from among his brothers he took five men and presented them to Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:3 And Pharaoh said to his brothers, What is your occupation? And they said to Pharaoh, Your servants are shepherds, both we and our fathers before us." 
Genesis47:4 Moreover, they said to Pharaoh, We have come to sojourn in the land, for your servants have no pasture for our flocks, for the famine is very severe in Canaan. So now, we pray you, let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen." 
Genesis47:5 And Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, Your father and your brothers have come to you." 
Genesis47:6 The land of Egypt is before you; make your father and your brothers dwell in the best of the land. Let them live in the land of Goshen. And if you know of any men of ability among them, put them in charge of my cattle." 
Genesis47:7 Then Joseph brought in Jacob his father and presented him before Pharaoh; and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:8 And Pharaoh asked Jacob, How old are you?" 
Genesis47:9 Jacob said to Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are 130 years; few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and they have not attained to those of the life of my fathers in their pilgrimage." 
Genesis47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from his presence. 
Genesis47:11 Joseph settled his father and brethren and gave them a possession in Egypt in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses (Goshen), as Pharaoh commanded." 
Genesis47:12 And Joseph supplied his father and his brethren and all his father's household with food, according to [the needs of] their families." 
Genesis47:13 [In the course of time] there was no food in all the land, for the famine was distressingly severe, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan hung in doubt and wavered by reason of the hunger (destitution, starvation) of the famine." 
Genesis47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan [in payment] for the grain which they bought, and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house." 
Genesis47:15 And when the money was exhausted in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, Give us food! Why should we die before your very eyes? For we have no money left." 
Genesis47:16 Joseph said, Give up your livestock, and I will give you food in exchange for [them] if your money is gone." 
Genesis47:17 So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and [he] gave them food in exchange for the horses, flocks, cattle of the herds, and the donkeys; and he supplied them with food in exchange for all their livestock that year." 
Genesis47:18 When that year was ended, they came to [Joseph] the second year and said to him, We will not hide from my lord [the fact] that our money is spent; my lord also has our herds of livestock; there is nothing left in the sight of my lord but our bodies and our lands." 
Genesis47:19 Why should we perish before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land in exchange for food, and we and our land will be servants to Pharaoh. And give us seed [to plant], that we may live and not die, and that the land may not be desolate." 
Genesis47:20 And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field because of the overwhelming severity of the famine upon them. The land became Pharaoh's," 
Genesis47:21 And as for the people, he removed them to cities and practically made slaves of them [at their own request], from one end of the borders of Egypt to the other." 
Genesis47:22 Only the priests' land he did not buy, for the priests had a fixed pension from Pharaoh and lived on the amount Pharaoh gave them. So they did not sell their land." 
Genesis47:23 Then Joseph said to the people, Behold, I have today bought you and your land for Pharaoh. Now here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land." 
Genesis47:24 At [harvest time when you reap] the increase, you shall give one-fifth of it to Pharaoh, and four-fifths shall be your own to use for seed for the field and as food for you and those of your households and for your little ones." 
Genesis47:25 And they said, You have saved our lives! Let us find favor in the sight of my lord; and we will be Pharaoh's servants." 
Genesis47:26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt,to this day,that Pharaoh should have the fifth part [of the crops]; it was the priests' land only which did not become Pharaoh's. 
Genesis47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they gained possessions there and grew and multiplied exceedingly." 
Genesis47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years; so Jacob reached the age of 147 years. 
Genesis47:29 When the time drew near that Israel must die, he called his son Joseph and said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, put your hand under my thigh and [promise to] deal loyally and faithfully with me. Do not bury me, I beg of you, in Egypt," 
Genesis47:30 But let me lie with my fathers; you shall carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burying place. And [Joseph] said, I will do as you have directed." 
Genesis47:31 Then Jacob said, Swear to me [that you will do it]. And he swore to him. And Israel bowed himself upon the head of the bed." 
Genesis48:1 SOME TIME after these things occurred, someone told Joseph, Behold, your father is sick. And he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim [and went to Goshen]." 
Genesis48:2 When Jacob was told, Your son Joseph has come to you, Israel collected his strength and sat up on the bed." 
Genesis48:3 And Jacob said to Joseph, God Almighty appeared to me at Luz [Bethel] in the land of Canaan and blessed me" 
Genesis48:4 And said to me, Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make you a multitude of people and will give this land to your descendants after you as an everlasting possession. [Gen. 28:13-22; 35:6-15.]" 
Genesis48:5 And now your two sons, [Ephraim and Manasseh], who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine. [I am adopting them, and now] as Reuben and Simeon, [they] shall be mine." 
Genesis48:6 But other sons who may be born after them shall be your own; and they shall be called after the names of these [two] brothers and reckoned as belonging to them [when they come] into their inheritance. 
Genesis48:7 And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died at my side in the land of Canaan on the way, when yet there was but a little way to come to Ephrath; and I buried her there on the way to Ephrath, that is, Bethlehem." 
Genesis48:8 When Israel [almost blind] saw Joseph's sons, he said, Who are these?" 
Genesis48:9 And Joseph said to his father, They are my sons, whom God has given me in this place. And he said, Bring them to me, I pray you, that I may bless them." 
Genesis48:10 Now Israel's eyes were dim from age, so that he could not see. And Joseph brought them near to him, and he kissed and embraced them." 
Genesis48:11 Israel said to Joseph, I had not thought that I would see your face, but see, God has shown me your offspring also." 
Genesis48:12 Then Joseph took [the boys] from [his father's embrace] and he bowed [before him] with his face to the earth. 
Genesis48:13 Then Joseph took both [boys], Ephraim with his right hand toward Israel's left, and Manasseh with his left hand toward Israel's right, and brought them close to him." 
Genesis48:14 And Israel reached out his right hand and laid it on the head of Ephraim, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh's head, crossing his hands intentionally, for Manasseh was the firstborn." 
Genesis48:15 Then [Jacob] blessed Joseph and said, God [Himself], before Whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac lived and walked habitually, God [Himself], Who has [been my Shepherd and has led and] fed me from the time I came into being until this day," 
Genesis48:16 The redeeming Angel [that is, the Angel the Redeemer,not a created being but the Lord Himself] Who has redeemed me continually from every evil, bless the lads! And let my name be perpetuated in them [may they be worthy of having their names coupled with mine], and the names of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them become a multitude in the midst of the earth." 
Genesis48:17 When Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on Ephraim's head, it displeased him; and he held up his father's hand to move it to Manasseh's head." 
Genesis48:18 And Joseph said, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn; put your right hand upon his head." 
Genesis48:19 But his father refused and said, I know, my son, I know. He also shall become a people and shall be great; but his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his offspring shall become a multitude of nations." 
Genesis48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, By you shall Israel bless [one another], saying, May God make you like Ephraim and like Manasseh. And he set Ephraim before Manasseh." 
Genesis48:21 And Israel said to Joseph, Behold, I [am about to] die, but God will be with you and bring you again to the land of your fathers." 
Genesis48:22 Moreover, I have given to you [Joseph] one portion [Shechem, one mountain slope] more than any of your brethren, which I took [reclaiming it] out of the hand of the Amorites with my sword and with my bow. [Gen. 33:18, 19; Josh. 24:32, 33; John 4:5.]" 
Genesis49:1 AND JACOB called for his sons and said, Gather yourselves together [around me], that I may tell you what shall befall you in the latter or last days." 
Genesis49:2 Gather yourselves together and hear, you sons of Jacob; and hearken to Israel your father." 
Genesis49:3 Reuben, you are my firstborn, my might, the beginning (the firstfruits) of my manly strength and vigor; [your birthright gave you] the preeminence in dignity and the preeminence in power." 
Genesis49:4 But unstable and boiling over like water, you shall not excel and have the preeminence [of the firstborn], because you went to your father's bed; you defiled it,he went to my couch! [Gen. 35:22.]" 
Genesis49:5 Simeon and Levi are brothers [equally headstrong, deceitful, vindictive, and cruel]; their swords are weapons of violence. [Gen. 34:25-29.]" 
Genesis49:6 O my soul, come not into their secret council; unto their assembly let not my honor be united [for I knew nothing of their plot], because in their anger they slew men [an honored man, Shechem, and the Shechemites], and in their self-will they disabled oxen." 
Genesis49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel." 
Genesis49:8 Judah, you are the one whom your brothers shall praise; your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies; your father's sons shall bow down to you." 
Genesis49:9 Judah, a lion's cub! With the prey, my son, you have gone high up [the mountain]. He stooped down, he crouched like a lion, and like a lioness,who dares provoke and rouse him? [Rev. 5:5.]" 
Genesis49:10 The scepter or leadership shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until Shiloh [the Messiah, the Peaceful One] comes to Whom it belongs, and to Him shall be the obedience of the people. [Num. 24:17; Ps. 60:7.]" 
Genesis49:11 Binding His foal to the vine and His donkey's colt to the choice vine, He washes His garments in wine and His clothes in the blood of grapes. [Isa. 63:1-3; Zech. 9:9; Rev. 19:11-16.]" 
Genesis49:12 His eyes are darker and more sparkling than wine, and His teeth whiter than milk." 
Genesis49:13 Zebulun shall live toward the seashore, and he shall be a haven and a landing place for ships; and his border shall be toward Sidon." 
Genesis49:14 Issachar is a strong-boned donkey crouching down between the sheepfolds. 
Genesis49:15 And he saw that rest was good and that the land was pleasant; and he bowed his shoulder to bear [his burdens] and became a servant to tribute [subjected to forced labor]. 
Genesis49:16 Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. 
Genesis49:17 Dan shall be a serpent by the way, a horned snake in the path, that bites at the horse's heels, so that his rider falls backward." 
Genesis49:18 I wait for Your salvation, O Lord." 
Genesis49:19 Gad,a raiding troop shall raid him, but he shall raid at their heels and assault them [victoriously]." 
Genesis49:20 Asher's food [supply] shall be rich and fat, and he shall yield and deliver royal delights." 
Genesis49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose which yields lovely fawns. 
Genesis49:22 Joseph is a fruitful bough, a fruitful bough by a well (spring or fountain), whose branches run over the wall." 
Genesis49:23 Skilled archers have bitterly attacked and sorely worried him; they have shot at him and persecuted him. 
Genesis49:24 But his bow remained strong and steady and rested in the Strength that does not fail him, for the arms of his hands were made strong and active by the hands of the Mighty God of Jacob, by the name of the Shepherd, the Rock of Israel, [Gen. 48:15; Deut. 32:4; Isa. 9:6; 49:26.]" 
Genesis49:25 By the God of your father, Who will help you, and by the Almighty, Who will bless you with blessings of the heavens above, blessings lying in the deep beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb." 
Genesis49:26 The blessings of your father [on you] are greater than the blessings of my forefathers [Abraham and Isaac on me] and are as lasting as the bounties of the eternal hills; they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him who was the consecrated one and the one separated from his brethren and [the one who] is prince among them." 
Genesis49:27 Benjamin is a ravenous wolf, in the morning devouring the prey and at night dividing the spoil." 
Genesis49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father said to them as he blessed them, blessing each one according to the blessing suited to him." 
Genesis49:29 He charged them and said to them, I am to be gathered to my [departed] people; bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite," 
Genesis49:30 In the cave in the field at Machpelah, east of Mamre in the land of Canaan, that Abraham bought, along with the field of Ephron the Hittite, to possess as a cemetery. [Gen. 23:17-20.]" 
Genesis49:31 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife, there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife, and there I buried Leah." 
Genesis49:32 The purchase of the field and the cave that is in it was from the sons of Heth. 
Genesis49:33 When Jacob had finished commanding his sons, he drew his feet up into the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his [departed] people." 
Genesis50:1 THEN JOSEPH fell upon his father's face and wept over him and kissed him. 
Genesis50:2 And Joseph ordered his servants the physicians to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel. 
Genesis50:3 Then forty days were devoted [to this purpose] for him, for that is the customary number of days required for those who are embalmed. And the Egyptians wept and bemoaned him [as they would for royalty] for seventy days." 
Genesis50:4 And when the days of his weeping and deep grief were past, Joseph said to [the nobles of] the house of Pharaoh, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, to Pharaoh [for Joseph was dressed in mourning and could not do so himself], saying," 
Genesis50:5 My father made me swear, saying, I am about to die; in my tomb which I hewed out for myself in the land of Canaan, there you shall bury me. So now let me go up, I pray you, and bury my father, and I will come again." 
Genesis50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up and bury your father, as he made you swear." 
Genesis50:7 And Joseph went up [to Canaan] to bury his father; and with him went all the officials of Pharaoh,the nobles of his court, and the elders of his house and all the nobles and elders of the land of Egypt," 
Genesis50:8 And all the household of Joseph and his brethren and his father's household. Only their little ones and their flocks and herds they left in the land of Goshen. 
Genesis50:9 And there went with [Joseph] both chariots and horsemen; and it was a very great company. 
Genesis50:10 And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond [west of] the Jordan, and there they mourned with a great lamentation and extreme demonstrations of sorrow [according to Egyptian custom]; and [Joseph] made a mourning for his father seven days." 
Genesis50:11 When the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning at the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning for the Egyptians. Therefore the place was called Abel-mizraim [mourning of Egypt]; it is west of the Jordan." 
Genesis50:12 Thus [Jacob's] sons did for him as he had commanded them. 
Genesis50:13 For his sons carried him to the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, east of Mamre, which Abraham bought, along with the field, for a possession as a burying place from Ephron the Hittite." 
Genesis50:14 After he had buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt, he and his brethren and all who had gone up with him." 
Genesis50:15 When Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Perhaps now Joseph will hate us and will pay us back for all the evil we did to him." 
Genesis50:16 And they sent a messenger to Joseph, saying, Your father commanded before he died, saying," 
Genesis50:17 So shall you say to Joseph: Forgive (take up and away all resentment and all claim to requital concerning), I pray you now, the trespass of your brothers and their sin, for they did evil to you. Now, we pray you, forgive the trespass of the servants of your father's God. And Joseph wept when they spoke thus to him." 
Genesis50:18 Then his brothers went and fell down before him, saying, See, we are your servants (your slaves)!" 
Genesis50:19 And Joseph said to them, Fear not; for am I in the place of God? [Vengeance is His, not mine.]" 
Genesis50:20 As for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring about that many people should be kept alive, as they are this day." 
Genesis50:21 Now therefore, do not be afraid. I will provide for and support you and your little ones. And he comforted them [imparting cheer, hope, strength] and spoke to their hearts [kindly]." 
Genesis50:22 Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's household. And Joseph lived 110 years." 
Genesis50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation; the children also of Machir son of Manasseh were brought up on Joseph's knees. 
Genesis50:24 And Joseph said to his brethren, I am going to die. But God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land to the land He swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob [to give you]." 
Genesis50:25 And Joseph took an oath from the sons of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and you will carry up my bones from here." 
Genesis50:26 So Joseph died, being 110 years old; and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt." 
Exodus1:1 THESE ARE the names of the sons of Israel who came into Egypt with Jacob, each with his household:" 
Exodus1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah," 
Exodus1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin," 
Exodus1:4 Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher." 
Exodus1:5 All the offspring of Jacob were seventy persons; Joseph was already in Egypt. 
Exodus1:6 Then Joseph died, and all his brothers and all that generation." 
Exodus1:7 But the descendants of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly; they multiplied and grew exceedingly strong, and the land was full of them." 
Exodus1:8 Now a new king arose over Egypt who did not know Joseph. 
Exodus1:9 He said to his people, Behold, the Israelites are too many and too mighty for us [and they outnumber us both in people and in strength]." 
Exodus1:10 Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply more and, should war befall us, they join our enemies, fight against us, and escape out of the land." 
Exodus1:11 So they set over [the Israelites] taskmasters to afflict and oppress them with [increased] burdens. And [the Israelites] built Pithom and Rameses as store cities for Pharaoh. 
Exodus1:12 But the more [the Egyptians] oppressed them, the more they multiplied and expanded, so that [the Egyptians] were vexed and alarmed because of the Israelites." 
Exodus1:13 And the Egyptians reduced the Israelites to severe slavery. 
Exodus1:14 They made their lives bitter with hard service in mortar, brick, and all kinds of work in the field. All their service was with harshness and severity." 
Exodus1:15 Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, of whom one was named Shiprah and the other Puah," 
Exodus1:16 When you act as midwives to the Hebrew women and see them on the birthstool, if it is a son, you shall kill him; but if it is a daughter, she shall live." 
Exodus1:17 But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded, but let the male babies live." 
Exodus1:18 So the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said to them, Why have you done this thing and allowed the male children to live?" 
Exodus1:19 The midwives answered Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women; they are vigorous and quickly delivered; their babies are born before the midwife comes to them." 
Exodus1:20 So God dealt well with the midwives and the people multiplied and became very strong. 
Exodus1:21 And because the midwives revered and feared God, He made them households [of their own]." 
Exodus1:22 Then Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son born [to the Hebrews] you shall cast into the river [Nile], but every daughter you shall allow to live." 
Exodus2:1 NOW [Amram] a man of the house of Levi [the priestly tribe] went and took as his wife [Jochebed] a daughter of Levi. [Exod. 6:18, 20; Num. 26:59.]" 
Exodus2:2 And the woman became pregnant and bore a son; and when she saw that he was [exceedingly] beautiful, she hid him three months. [Acts 7:20; Heb. 11:23.]" 
Exodus2:3 And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark or basket made of bulrushes or papyrus [making it watertight by] daubing it with bitumen and pitch. Then she put the child in it and laid it among the rushes by the brink of the river [Nile]." 
Exodus2:4 And his sister [Miriam] stood some distance away to learn what would be done to him. 
Exodus2:5 Now the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river, and her maidens walked along the bank; she saw the ark among the rushes and sent her maid to fetch it." 
Exodus2:6 When she opened it, she saw the child; and behold, the baby cried. And she took pity on him and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children!" 
Exodus2:7 Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call a nurse of the Hebrew women to nurse the child for you?" 
Exodus2:8 Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the girl went and called the child's mother." 
Exodus2:9 Then Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give you your wages. So the woman took the child and nursed it." 
Exodus2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter and he became her son. And she called him Moses, for she said, Because I drew him out of the water." 
Exodus2:11 One day, after Moses was grown, it happened that he went out to his brethren and looked at their burdens; and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of [Moses'] brethren." 
Exodus2:12 He looked this way and that way, and when he saw no one, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand." 
Exodus2:13 He went out the second day and saw two Hebrew men quarreling and fighting; and he said to the unjust aggressor, Why are you striking your comrade?" 
Exodus2:14 And the man said, Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you intend to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? Then Moses was afraid and thought, Surely this thing is known." 
Exodus2:15 When Pharaoh heard of it, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from Pharaoh's presence and took refuge in the land of Midian, where he sat down by a well." 
Exodus2:16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock." 
Exodus2:17 The shepherds came and drove them away; but Moses stood up and helped them and watered their flock. 
Exodus2:18 And when they came to Reuel [Jethro] their father, he said, How is it that you have come so soon today?" 
Exodus2:19 They said, An Egyptian delivered us from the shepherds; also he drew water for us and watered the flock." 
Exodus2:20 He said to his daughters, Where is he? Why have you left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread." 
Exodus2:21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man; and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter. 
Exodus2:22 And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom [expulsion, or a stranger there]; for he said, I have been a stranger and a sojourner in a foreign land." 
Exodus2:23 However, after a long time [nearly forty years] the king of Egypt died; and the Israelites were sighing and groaning because of the bondage. They kept crying, and their cry because of slavery ascended to God." 
Exodus2:24 And God heard their sighing and groaning and [earnestly] remembered His covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob." 
Exodus2:25 God saw the Israelites and took knowledge of them and concerned Himself about them [knowing all, understanding, remembering all]. [Ps. 56:8, 9; 139:2.]" 
Exodus3:1 NOW MOSES kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian; and he led the flock to the back or west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb or Sinai, the mountain of God." 
Exodus3:2 The Angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush; and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, yet was not consumed." 
Exodus3:3 And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burned." 
Exodus3:4 And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses! And he said, Here am I." 
Exodus3:5 God said, Do not come near; put your shoes off your feet, for the place on which you stand is holy ground." 
Exodus3:6 Also He said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God." 
Exodus3:7 And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of My people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters and oppressors; for I know their sorrows and sufferings and trials." 
Exodus3:8 And I have come down to deliver them out of the hand and power of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land to a land good and large, a land flowing with milk and honey [a land of plenty],to the place of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite." 
Exodus3:9 Now behold, the cry of the Israelites has come to Me, and I have also seen how the Egyptians oppress them." 
Exodus3:10 Come now therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring forth My people, the Israelites, out of Egypt." 
Exodus3:11 And Moses said to God, Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt?" 
Exodus3:12 God said, I will surely be with you; and this shall be the sign to you that I have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain [Horeb, or Sinai]." 
Exodus3:13 And Moses said to God, Behold, when I come to the Israelites and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they say to me, What is His name? What shall I say to them?" 
Exodus3:14 And God said to Moses, I AM WHO I AM and WHAT I AM, and I WILL BE WHAT I WILL BE; and He said, You shall say this to the Israelites: I AM has sent me to you!" 
Exodus3:15 God said also to Moses, This shall you say to the Israelites: The Lord, the God of your fathers, of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has sent me to you! This is My name forever, and by this name I am to be remembered to all generations." 
Exodus3:16 Go, gather the elders of Israel together [the mature teachers and tribal leaders], and say to them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared to me, saying, I have surely visited you and seen that which is done to you in Egypt;" 
Exodus3:17 And I have declared that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Exodus3:18 And [the elders] shall believe and obey your voice; and you shall go, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt and you shall say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us; and now let us go, we beseech you, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God." 
Exodus3:19 And I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go [unless forced to do so], no, not by a mighty hand." 
Exodus3:20 So I will stretch out My hand and smite Egypt with all My wonders which I will do in it; and after that he will let you go. 
Exodus3:21 And I will give this people favor and respect in the sight of the Egyptians; and it shall be that when you go, you shall not go empty-handed." 
Exodus3:22 But every woman shall [insistently] solicit of her neighbor and of her that may be residing at her house jewels and articles of silver and gold, and garments, which you shall put on your sons and daughters; and you shall strip the Egyptians [of belongings due to you]." 
Exodus4:1 AND MOSES answered, But behold, they will not believe me or listen to and obey my voice; for they will say, The Lord has not appeared to you." 
Exodus4:2 And the Lord said to him, What is that in your hand? And he said, A rod." 
Exodus4:3 And He said, Cast it on the ground. And he did so and it became a serpent [the symbol of royal and divine power worn on the crown of the Pharaohs]; and Moses fled from before it." 
Exodus4:4 And the Lord said to Moses, Put forth your hand and take it by the tail. And he stretched out his hand and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand," 
Exodus4:5 [This you shall do, said the Lord] that the elders may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has indeed appeared to you." 
Exodus4:6 The Lord said also to him, Put your hand into your bosom. He put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous, as white as snow." 
Exodus4:7 [God] said, Put your hand into your bosom again. So he put his hand back into his bosom, and when he took it out, behold, it was restored as the rest of his flesh." 
Exodus4:8 [Then God said] If they will not believe you or heed the voice or the testimony of the first sign, they may believe the voice or the witness of the second sign." 
Exodus4:9 But if they will also not believe these two signs or heed your voice, you shall take some water of the river [Nile] and pour it upon the dry land; and the water which you take out of the river [Nile] shall become blood on the dry land." 
Exodus4:10 And Moses said to the Lord, O Lord, I am not eloquent or a man of words, neither before nor since You have spoken to Your servant; for I am slow of speech and have a heavy and awkward tongue." 
Exodus4:11 And the Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth? Or who makes the dumb, or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Is it not I, the Lord?" 
Exodus4:12 Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth and will teach you what you shall say." 
Exodus4:13 And he said, Oh, my Lord, I pray You, send by the hand of [some other] whom You will [send]." 
Exodus4:14 Then the anger of the Lord blazed against Moses; He said, Is there not Aaron your brother, the Levite? I know he can speak well. Also, he is coming out to meet you, and when he sees you, he will be overjoyed." 
Exodus4:15 You must speak to him and put the words in his mouth; and I will be with your mouth and with his mouth and will teach you what you shall do. 
Exodus4:16 He shall speak for you to the people, acting as a mouthpiece for you, and you shall be as God to him." 
Exodus4:17 And you shall take this rod in your hand with which you shall work the signs [that prove I sent you]. 
Exodus4:18 And Moses went away and, returning to Jethro his father-in-law, said to him, Let me go back, I pray you, to my relatives in Egypt to see whether they are still alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace." 
Exodus4:19 The Lord said to Moses in Midian, Go back to Egypt; for all the men who were seeking your life [for killing the Egyptian] are dead. [Exod. 2:11, 12.]" 
Exodus4:20 And Moses took his wife and his sons and set them on donkeys, and he returned to the land of Egypt; and Moses took the rod of God in his hand." 
Exodus4:21 And the Lord said to Moses, When you return into Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all those miracles and wonders which I have put in your hand; but I will make him stubborn and harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go." 
Exodus4:22 And you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is My son, even My firstborn." 
Exodus4:23 And I say to you, Let My son go, that he may serve Me; and if you refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay your son, your firstborn." 
Exodus4:24 Along the way at a [resting-] place, the Lord met [Moses] and sought to kill him [made him acutely and almost fatally ill]." 
Exodus4:25 [Now apparently he had failed to circumcise one of his sons, his wife being opposed to it; but seeing his life in such danger] Zipporah took a flint knife and cut off the foreskin of her son and cast it to touch [Moses'] feet, and said, Surely a husband of blood you are to me!" 
Exodus4:26 When He let [Moses] alone [to recover], Zipporah said, A husband of blood are you because of the circumcision." 
Exodus4:27 The Lord said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went, and met him in the mountain of God [Horeb, or Sinai] and kissed him." 
Exodus4:28 Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord with which He had sent him, and all the signs with which He had charged him." 
Exodus4:29 Moses and Aaron went and gathered together [in Egypt] all the elders of the Israelites. 
Exodus4:30 Aaron spoke all the words which the Lord had spoken to Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people." 
Exodus4:31 And the people believed; and when they heard that the Lord had visited the Israelites, and that He had looked [in compassion] upon their affliction, they bowed their heads and worshiped." 
Exodus5:1 AFTERWARD MOSES and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, Let My people go, that they may hold a feast to Me in the wilderness." 
Exodus5:2 But Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord, that I should obey His voice to let Israel go? I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go." 
Exodus5:3 And they said, The God of the Hebrews has met with us; let us go, we pray you, three days' journey into the desert and sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest He fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword." 
Exodus5:4 The king of Egypt said to Moses and Aaron, Why do you take the people from their jobs? Get to your burdens!" 
Exodus5:5 Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and you make them rest from their burdens!" 
Exodus5:6 The very same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their officers," 
Exodus5:7 You shall no more give the people straw to make brick; let them go and gather straw for themselves. 
Exodus5:8 But the number of the bricks which they made before you shall still require of them; you shall not diminish it in the least. For they are idle; that is why they cry, Let us go and sacrifice to our God." 
Exodus5:9 Let heavier work be laid upon the men that they may labor at it and pay no attention to lying words. 
Exodus5:10 The taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they said to the people, Thus says Pharaoh, I will not give you straw." 
Exodus5:11 Go, get straw where you can find it; but your work shall not be diminished in the least." 
Exodus5:12 So the people were scattered through all the land of Egypt to gather the short stubble instead of straw. 
Exodus5:13 And the taskmasters were urgent, saying, Finish your work, your daily quotas, as when there was straw." 
Exodus5:14 And the Hebrew foremen, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten and were asked, Why have you not fulfilled all your quota of making bricks yesterday and today, as before?" 
Exodus5:15 Then the Hebrew foremen came to Pharaoh and cried, Why do you deal like this with your servants?" 
Exodus5:16 No straw is given to your servants, yet they say to us, Make bricks! And behold, your servants are beaten, but the fault is in your own people." 
Exodus5:17 But [Pharaoh] said, You are idle, lazy and idle! That is why you say, Let us go and sacrifice to the Lord." 
Exodus5:18 Get out now and get to work; for no straw shall be given you, yet you shall deliver the full quota of bricks." 
Exodus5:19 And the Hebrew foremen saw that they were in an evil situation when it was said, You shall not diminish in the least your full daily quota of bricks." 
Exodus5:20 And the foremen met Moses and Aaron, who were standing in the way as they came forth from Pharaoh." 
Exodus5:21 And the foremen said to them, The Lord look upon you and judge, because you have made us a rotten stench to be detested by Pharaoh and his servants and have put a sword in their hand to slay us." 
Exodus5:22 Then Moses turned again to the Lord and said, O Lord, why have You dealt evil to this people? Why did You ever send me?" 
Exodus5:23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in Your name, he has done evil to this people, neither have You delivered Your people at all." 
Exodus6:1 THEN THE Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh; for [compelled] by a strong hand he will [not only] let them go, but he will drive them out of his land with a strong hand." 
Exodus6:2 And God said to Moses, I am the Lord." 
Exodus6:3 I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty [El-Shaddai], but by My name the Lord [Yahweh,the redemptive name of God] I did not make Myself known to them [in acts and great miracles]. [Gen. 17:1.]" 
Exodus6:4 I have also established My covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their temporary residence in which they were strangers." 
Exodus6:5 I have also heard the groaning of the Israelites whom the Egyptians have enslaved; and I have [earnestly] remembered My covenant [with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob]." 
Exodus6:6 Accordingly, say to the Israelites, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will free you from their bondage, and I will rescue you with an outstretched arm [with special and vigorous action] and by mighty acts of judgment." 
Exodus6:7 And I will take you to Me for a people, and I will be to you a God; and you shall know that it is I, the Lord your God, Who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians." 
Exodus6:8 And I will bring you into the land concerning which I lifted up My hand and swore that I would give it to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and I will give it to you for a heritage. I am the Lord [you have the pledge of My changeless omnipotence and faithfulness]." 
Exodus6:9 Moses told this to the Israelites, but they refused to listen to Moses because of their impatience and anguish of spirit and because of their cruel bondage." 
Exodus6:10 The Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus6:11 Go in, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt to let the Israelites go out of his land." 
Exodus6:12 But Moses said to the Lord, Behold, [my own people] the Israelites have not listened to me; how then shall Pharaoh give heed to me, who am of deficient and impeded speech?" 
Exodus6:13 But the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and gave them a command for the Israelites and for Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt." 
Exodus6:14 These are the heads of their clans. The sons of Reuben, Israel's firstborn: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben." 
Exodus6:15 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon." 
Exodus6:16 These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their births: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari; and Levi lived 137 years." 
Exodus6:17 The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimi, by their families." 
Exodus6:18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel; and Kohath lived 133 years." 
Exodus6:19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of Levi according to their generations. 
Exodus6:20 Amram took Jochebed his father's sister as wife, and she bore him Aaron and Moses; and Amram lived 137 years." 
Exodus6:21 The sons of Izhar: Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri." 
Exodus6:22 The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri." 
Exodus6:23 Aaron took Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon, as wife; she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
Exodus6:24 The sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the families of the Korahites." 
Exodus6:25 Eleazar, Aaron's son, took one of the daughters of Putiel as wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites by their families." 
Exodus6:26 These are the [same] Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, Bring out the Israelites from the land of Egypt by their hosts," 
Exodus6:27 And who spoke to [the] Pharaoh king of Egypt about bringing the Israelites out of Egypt; these are that Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus6:28 On the day when the Lord spoke to Moses in Egypt," 
Exodus6:29 The Lord said to Moses, I am the Lord; tell Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say to you." 
Exodus6:30 But Moses said to the Lord, Behold, I am of deficient and impeded speech; how then shall Pharaoh listen to me?" 
Exodus7:1 THE LORD said to Moses, Behold, I make you as God to Pharaoh [to declare My will and purpose to him]; and Aaron your brother shall be your prophet." 
Exodus7:2 You shall speak all that I command you, and Aaron your brother shall tell Pharaoh to let the Israelites go out of his land." 
Exodus7:3 And I will make Pharaoh's heart stubborn and hard, and multiply My signs, My wonders, and miracles in the land of Egypt." 
Exodus7:4 But Pharaoh will not listen to you, and I will lay My hand upon Egypt and bring forth My hosts, My people the Israelites, out of the land of Egypt by great acts of judgment." 
Exodus7:5 The Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord when I stretch forth My hand upon Egypt and bring out the Israelites from among them. 
Exodus7:6 And Moses and Aaron did so, as the Lord commanded them." 
Exodus7:7 Now Moses was 80 years old and Aaron 83 years old when they spoke to Pharaoh. 
Exodus7:8 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Exodus7:9 When Pharaoh says to you, Prove [your authority] by a miracle, then tell Aaron, Throw your rod down before Pharaoh, that it may become a serpent." 
Exodus7:10 So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and did as the Lord had commanded; Aaron threw down his rod before Pharaoh and his servants, and it became a serpent." 
Exodus7:11 Then Pharaoh called for the wise men [skilled in magic and divination] and the sorcerers (wizards and jugglers). And they also, these magicians of Egypt, did similar things with their enchantments and secret arts." 
Exodus7:12 For they cast down every man his rod and they became serpents; but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods. 
Exodus7:13 But Pharaoh's heart was hardened and stubborn and he would not listen to them, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus7:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hard and stubborn; he refuses to let the people go." 
Exodus7:15 Go to Pharaoh in the morning; he will be going out to the water; wait for him by the river's brink; and the rod which was turned to a serpent you shall take in your hand. 
Exodus7:16 And say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews has sent me to you, saying, Let My people go, that they may serve Me in the wilderness; and behold, heretofore you have not listened." 
Exodus7:17 Thus says the Lord, In this you shall know, recognize, and understand that I am the Lord: behold, I will smite with the rod in my hand the waters in the [Nile] River, and they shall be turned to blood." 
Exodus7:18 The fish in the river shall die, the river shall become foul smelling, and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink from it." 
Exodus7:19 And the Lord said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Take your rod and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their streams, rivers, pools, and ponds of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, in containers both of wood and of stone." 
Exodus7:20 Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded; [Aaron] lifted up the rod and smote the waters in the river in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants, and all the waters in the river were turned to blood." 
Exodus7:21 And the fish in the river died; and the river became foul smelling, and the Egyptians could not drink its water, and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus7:22 But the magicians of Egypt did the same by their enchantments and secret arts; and Pharaoh's heart was made hard and obstinate, and he did not listen to Moses and Aaron, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus7:23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house; neither did he take even this to heart. 
Exodus7:24 And all the Egyptians dug round about the river for water to drink, for they could not drink the water of the [Nile]." 
Exodus7:25 Seven days passed after the Lord had smitten the river. 
Exodus8:1 THEN THE Lord said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh and say to him, Thus says the Lord, Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus8:2 And if you refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite your entire land with frogs;" 
Exodus8:3 And the river shall swarm with frogs which shall go up and come into your house, into your bedchamber and on your bed, and into the houses of your servants and upon your people, and into your ovens, your kneading bowls, and your dough." 
Exodus8:4 And the frogs shall come up on you and on your people and all your servants. 
Exodus8:5 And the Lord said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your hand with your rod over the rivers, the streams and canals, and over the pools, and cause frogs to come up on the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:6 So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land." 
Exodus8:7 But the magicians did the same thing with their enchantments and secret arts, and brought up [more] frogs upon the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Entreat the Lord, that He may take away the frogs from me and my people; and I will let the people go that they may sacrifice to the Lord." 
Exodus8:9 Moses said to Pharaoh, Glory over me in this: dictate when I shall pray [to the Lord] for you, your servants, and your people, that the frogs may be destroyed from you and your houses and remain only in the river." 
Exodus8:10 And [Pharaoh] said, Tomorrow. [Moses] said, Let it be as you say, that you may know that there is no one like the Lord our God." 
Exodus8:11 And the frogs shall depart from you and your houses and from your servants and your people; they shall remain in the river only. 
Exodus8:12 So Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried to the Lord [as he had agreed with Pharaoh] concerning the frogs which He had brought against him." 
Exodus8:13 And the Lord did according to the word of Moses, and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the courtyards and villages, and out of the fields." 
Exodus8:14 [The people] gathered them together in heaps, and the land was loathsome and stank." 
Exodus8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was temporary relief, he made his heart stubborn and hard and would not listen or heed them, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus8:16 Then the Lord said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your rod and strike the dust of the ground, that it may become biting gnats or mosquitoes throughout all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:17 And they did so; Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod and struck the dust of the earth, and there came biting gnats or mosquitoes on man and beast; all the dust of the land became biting gnats or mosquitoes throughout all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus8:18 The magicians tried by their enchantments and secret arts to bring forth gnats or mosquitoes, but they could not; and there were gnats or mosquitoes on man and beast." 
Exodus8:19 Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God! But Pharaoh's heart was hardened and strong and he would not listen to them, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus8:20 Then the Lord said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh as he comes forth to the water; and say to him, Thus says the Lord, Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus8:21 Else, if you will not let My people go, behold, I will send swarms [of bloodsucking gadflies] upon you, your servants, and your people, and into your houses; and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms [of bloodsucking gadflies], and also the ground on which they stand." 
Exodus8:22 But on that day I will sever and set apart the land of Goshen in which My people dwell, that no swarms [of gadflies] shall be there, so that you may know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth." 
Exodus8:23 And I will put a division and a sign of deliverance between My people and your people. By tomorrow shall this sign be in evidence. 
Exodus8:24 And the Lord did so; and there came heavy and oppressive swarms [of bloodsucking gadflies] into the house of Pharaoh and his servants' houses; and in all of Egypt the land was corrupted and ruined by reason of the great invasion [of gadflies]. 
Exodus8:25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Go, sacrifice to your God [here] in the land [of Egypt]." 
Exodus8:26 And Moses said, It is not suitable or right to do that; for the animals the Egyptians hold sacred and will not permit to be slain are those which we are accustomed to sacrifice to the Lord our God; if we did this before the eyes of the Egyptians, would they not stone us?" 
Exodus8:27 We will go a three days' journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the Lord our God, as He will command us." 
Exodus8:28 So Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that you may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness; only you shall not go very far away. Entreat [your God] for me." 
Exodus8:29 Moses said, I go out from you, and I will entreat the Lord that the swarms [of bloodsucking gadflies] may depart from Pharaoh, his servants, and his people tomorrow; only let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the Lord." 
Exodus8:30 So Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated the Lord. 
Exodus8:31 And the Lord did as Moses had spoken: He removed the swarms [of attacking gadflies] from Pharaoh, from his servants, and his people; there remained not one." 
Exodus8:32 But Pharaoh hardened his heart and made it stubborn this time also, nor would he let the people go." 
Exodus9:1 THEN THE Lord said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh and tell him, Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus9:2 If you refuse to let them go and still hold them," 
Exodus9:3 Behold, the hand of the Lord [will fall] upon your livestock which are out in the field, upon the horses, the donkeys, the camels, the herds and the flocks; there shall be a very severe plague." 
Exodus9:4 But the Lord shall make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, and nothing shall die of all that belongs to the Israelites." 
Exodus9:5 And the Lord set a time, saying, Tomorrow the Lord will do this thing in the land." 
Exodus9:6 And the Lord did that the next day, and all [kinds of] the livestock of Egypt died; but of the livestock of the Israelites not one died." 
Exodus9:7 Pharaoh sent to find out, and behold, there was not one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was hardened [his mind was set] and he did not let the people go." 
Exodus9:8 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Take handfuls of ashes or soot from the brickkiln and let Moses sprinkle them toward the heavens in the sight of Pharaoh." 
Exodus9:9 And it shall become small dust over all the land of Egypt, and become boils breaking out in sores on man and beast in all the land [occupied by the Egyptians]." 
Exodus9:10 So they took ashes or soot of the kiln and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses threw them toward the sky, and it became boils erupting in sores on man and beast." 
Exodus9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of their boils; for the boils were on the magicians and all the Egyptians. 
Exodus9:12 But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, making it strong and obstinate, and he did not listen to them or heed them, just as the Lord had told Moses." 
Exodus9:13 Then the Lord said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh and say to him, Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus9:14 For this time I will send all My plagues upon your heart and upon your servants and your people, that you may recognize and know that there is none like Me in all the earth." 
Exodus9:15 For by now I could have put forth My hand and have struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth." 
Exodus9:16 But for this very purpose have I let you live, that I might show you My power, and that My name may be declared throughout all the earth. [Rom. 9:17-24.]" 
Exodus9:17 Since you are still exalting yourself [in haughty defiance] against My people by not letting them go," 
Exodus9:18 Behold, tomorrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very heavy and dreadful fall of hail, such as has not been in Egypt from its founding until now." 
Exodus9:19 Send therefore now and gather your cattle in hastily, and all that you have in the field; for every man and beast that is in the field and is not brought home shall be struck by the hail and shall die." 
Exodus9:20 Then he who feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his livestock flee into the houses and shelters. 
Exodus9:21 And he who ignored the word of the Lord left his servants and his livestock in the field. 
Exodus9:22 The Lord said to Moses, Stretch forth your hand toward the heavens, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man and beast, and upon all the vegetation of the field, throughout the land of Egypt." 
Exodus9:23 Then Moses stretched forth his rod toward the heavens, and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and fire (lightning) ran down to and along the ground, and the Lord rained hail upon the land of Egypt." 
Exodus9:24 So there was hail and fire flashing continually in the midst of the weighty hail, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation." 
Exodus9:25 The hail struck down throughout all the land of Egypt everything that was in the field, both man and beast; and the hail beat down all the vegetation of the field and shattered every tree of the field." 
Exodus9:26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the Israelites were, was there no hail." 
Exodus9:27 And Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron, and said to them, I have sinned this time; the Lord is in the right and I and my people are in the wrong." 
Exodus9:28 Entreat the Lord, for there has been enough of these mighty thunderings and hail [these voices of God]; I will let you go; you shall stay here no longer." 
Exodus9:29 Moses said to him, As soon as I leave the city, I will stretch out my hands to the Lord; the thunder shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail, that you may know that the earth is the Lord's." 
Exodus9:30 But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet [reverently] fear the Lord God." 
Exodus9:31 The flax and the barley were smitten and ruined, for the barley was in the ear and the flax in bloom." 
Exodus9:32 But the wheat and spelt [another wheat] were not smitten, for they ripen late and were not grown up yet." 
Exodus9:33 So Moses left the city and Pharaoh, and stretched forth his hands to the Lord; and the thunder and hail ceased, and rain was no longer poured upon the earth." 
Exodus9:34 But when Pharaoh saw that the rain, the hail, and the thunder had ceased, he sinned yet more, and toughened and stiffened his hard heart, he and his servants." 
Exodus9:35 So Pharaoh's heart was strong and obstinate; he would not let the Israelites go, just as the Lord had said by Moses. [Exod. 4:21.]" 
Exodus10:1 THE LORD said to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, for I have made his heart hard, and his servants' hearts, that I might show these My signs [of divine power] before him," 
Exodus10:2 And that you may recount in the ears of your son and of your grandson what I have done in derision of the Egyptians and what things I have [repeatedly] done there,My signs [of divine power] done among them,that you may recognize and know that I am the Lord. 
Exodus10:3 So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh, and said to him, Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, How long will you refuse to humble yourself before Me? Let My people go, that they may serve Me." 
Exodus10:4 For if you refuse to let My people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your country." 
Exodus10:5 And they shall cover the land so that one cannot see the ground; and they shall eat the remainder of what escaped and is left to you from the hail, and they shall eat every tree of yours that grows in the field;" 
Exodus10:6 The locusts shall fill your houses and those of all your servants and of all the Egyptians, as neither your fathers nor your fathers' fathers have seen from their birth until this day. Then Moses departed from Pharaoh." 
Exodus10:7 And Pharaoh's servants said to him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God; do you not yet understand and know that Egypt is destroyed?" 
Exodus10:8 So Moses and Aaron were brought again to Pharaoh; and he said to them, Go, serve the Lord your God; but just who are to go?" 
Exodus10:9 And Moses said, We will go with our young and our old, with our sons and our daughters, with our flocks and our herds [all of us and all we have], for we must hold a feast to the Lord." 
Exodus10:10 Pharaoh said to them, Let the Lord be with you, if I ever let you go with your little ones! See, you have some evil purpose in mind." 
Exodus10:11 Not so! You that are men, [without your families] go and serve the Lord, for that is what you want. And [Moses and Aaron] were driven from Pharaoh's presence." 
Exodus10:12 Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up on the land of Egypt and eat all the vegetation of the land, all that the hail has left." 
Exodus10:13 And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night; when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts." 
Exodus10:14 And the locusts came up over all the land of Egypt and settled down on the whole country of Egypt, a very dreadful mass of them; never before were there such locusts as these, nor will there ever be again." 
Exodus10:15 For they covered the whole land, so that the ground was darkened, and they ate every bit of vegetation of the land and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left; there remained not a green thing of the trees or the plants of the field in all the land of Egypt." 
Exodus10:16 Then Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron in haste. He said, I have sinned against the Lord your God and you." 
Exodus10:17 Now therefore forgive my sin, I pray you, only this once, and entreat the Lord your God only that He may remove from me this [plague of] death." 
Exodus10:18 Then Moses left Pharaoh and entreated the Lord. 
Exodus10:19 And the Lord turned a violent west wind, which lifted the locusts and drove them into the Red Sea; not one locust remained in all the country of Egypt." 
Exodus10:20 But the Lord made Pharaoh's heart more strong and obstinate, and he would not let the Israelites go." 
Exodus10:21 And the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward the heavens, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness which may be felt." 
Exodus10:22 So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and for three days a thick darkness was all over the land of Egypt." 
Exodus10:23 The Egyptians could not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days; but all the Israelites had natural light in their dwellings." 
Exodus10:24 And Pharaoh called to Moses, and said, Go, serve the Lord; let your little ones also go with you; it is only your flocks and your herds that must not go." 
Exodus10:25 But Moses said, You must give into our hand also sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God." 
Exodus10:26 Our livestock also shall go with us; there shall not a hoof be left behind; for of them must we take to serve the Lord our God, and we know not with what we must serve the Lord until we arrive there." 
Exodus10:27 But the Lord made Pharaoh's heart stronger and more stubborn, and he would not let them go." 
Exodus10:28 And Pharaoh said to Moses, Get away from me! See that you never enter my presence again, for the day you see my face again you shall die!" 
Exodus10:29 And Moses said, You have spoken truly; I will never see your face again." 
Exodus11:1 THEN THE Lord said to Moses, Yet will I bring one plague more on Pharaoh and on Egypt; afterwards he will let you go. When he lets you go from here, he will thrust you out altogether." 
Exodus11:2 Speak now in the hearing of the people, and let every man solicit and ask of his neighbor, and every woman of her neighbor, jewels of silver and jewels of gold." 
Exodus11:3 And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was exceedingly great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants and of the people." 
Exodus11:4 And Moses said, Thus says the Lord, About midnight I will go out into the midst of Egypt;" 
Exodus11:5 And all the firstborn in the land [the pride, hope, and joy] of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the maidservant who is behind the hand mill, and all the firstborn of beasts." 
Exodus11:6 There shall be a great cry in all the land of Egypt, such as has never been nor ever shall be again." 
Exodus11:7 But against any of the Israelites shall not so much as a dog move his tongue against man or beast, that you may know that the Lord makes a distinction between the Egyptians and Israel." 
Exodus11:8 And all these your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying, Get out, and all the people who follow you! And after that I will go out. And he went out from Pharaoh in great anger." 
Exodus11:9 Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh will not listen to you, that My wonders and miracles may be multiplied in the land of Egypt." 
Exodus11:10 Moses and Aaron did all these wonders and miracles before Pharaoh; and the Lord hardened Pharaoh's stubborn heart, and he did not let the Israelites go out of his land." 
Exodus12:1 THE LORD said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt," 
Exodus12:2 This month shall be to you the beginning of months, the first month of the year to you." 
Exodus12:3 Tell all the congregation of Israel, On the tenth day of this month they shall take every man a lamb or kid, according to [the size of] the family of which he is the father, a lamb or kid for each house." 
Exodus12:4 And if the household is too small to consume the lamb, let him and his next door neighbor take it according to the number of persons, every man according to what each can eat shall make your count for the lamb." 
Exodus12:5 Your lamb or kid shall be without blemish, a male of the first year; you shall take it from the sheep or the goats. [I Pet. 1:19, 20.]" 
Exodus12:6 And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month; and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall [each] kill [his] lamb in the evening. 
Exodus12:7 They shall take of the blood and put it on the two side posts and on the lintel [above the door space] of the houses in which they shall eat [the Passover lamb]. [Matt. 26:28; John 1:29; Heb. 9:14.] 
Exodus12:8 They shall eat the flesh that night roasted; with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it. 
Exodus12:9 Eat not of it raw nor boiled at all with water, but roasted,its head, its legs, and its inner parts." 
Exodus12:10 You shall let nothing of the meat remain until the morning; and the bones and unedible bits which remain of it until morning you shall burn with fire. 
Exodus12:11 And you shall eat it thus: [as fully prepared for a journey] your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover." 
Exodus12:12 For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment [proving their helplessness]. I am the Lord." 
Exodus12:13 The blood shall be for a token or sign to you upon [the doorposts of] the houses where you are, [that] when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague shall be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. [I Cor. 5:7; Heb. 11:28.]" 
Exodus12:14 And this day shall be to you for a memorial. You shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations, keep it as an ordinance forever." 
Exodus12:15 [In celebration of the Passover in future years] seven days shall you eat unleavened bread; even the first day you shall put away leaven [symbolic of corruption] out of your houses; for whoever eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel." 
Exodus12:16 On the first day you shall hold a solemn and holy assembly, and on the seventh day there shall be a solemn and holy assembly; no kind of work shall be done in them, save [preparation of] that which every person must eat,that only may be done by you." 
Exodus12:17 And you shall observe the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for on this very day have I brought your hosts out of the land of Egypt; therefore shall you observe this day throughout your generations as an ordinance forever." 
Exodus12:18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread [and continue] until the twenty-first day of the month at evening." 
Exodus12:19 Seven days no leaven [symbolic of corruption] shall be found in your houses; whoever eats what is leavened shall be excluded from the congregation of Israel, whether a stranger or native-born. [I Cor. 5:6-8.]" 
Exodus12:20 You shall eat nothing leavened; in all your dwellings you shall eat unleavened bread [during that week]. 
Exodus12:21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, Go forth, select and take a lamb according to your families and kill the Passover [lamb]." 
Exodus12:22 And you shall take a bunch of hyssop, dip it in the blood in the basin, and touch the lintel above the door and the two side posts with the blood; and none of you shall go out of his house until morning." 
Exodus12:23 For the Lord will pass through to slay the Egyptians; and when He sees the blood upon the lintel and the two side posts, the Lord will pass over the door and will not allow the destroyer to come into your houses to slay you." 
Exodus12:24 You shall observe this rite for an ordinance to you and to your sons forever. 
Exodus12:25 When you come to the land which the Lord will give you, as He has promised, you shall keep this service." 
Exodus12:26 When your children shall say to you, What do you mean by this service?" 
Exodus12:27 You shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, for He passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt when He slew the Egyptians but spared our houses. And the people bowed their heads and worshiped." 
Exodus12:28 The Israelites went and, as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did." 
Exodus12:29 At midnight the Lord slew every firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the prisoner in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of the livestock." 
Exodus12:30 Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead." 
Exodus12:31 He called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up, get out from among my people, both you and the Israelites; and go, serve the Lord, as you said." 
Exodus12:32 Also take your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone! And [ask your God to] bless me also." 
Exodus12:33 The Egyptians were urgent with the people to depart, that they might send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We are all dead men." 
Exodus12:34 The people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their clothes on their shoulders." 
Exodus12:35 The Israelites did according to the word of Moses; and they [urgently] asked of the Egyptians jewels of silver and of gold, and clothing." 
Exodus12:36 The Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they gave them what they asked. And they stripped the Egyptians [of those things]." 
Exodus12:37 The Israelites journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about 600,000 men on foot, besides women and children." 
Exodus12:38 And a mixed multitude went also with them, and very much livestock, both flocks and herds." 
Exodus12:39 They baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought from Egypt; it was not leavened because they were driven from Egypt and could not delay, nor had they prepared for themselves any food." 
Exodus12:40 Now the time the Israelites dwelt in Egypt was 430 years. [Gen. 15:13, 14.]" 
Exodus12:41 At the end of the 430 years, even that very day, all the hosts of the Lord went out of Egypt." 
Exodus12:42 It was a night of watching unto the Lord and to be much observed for bringing them out of Egypt; this same night of watching unto the Lord is to be observed by all the Israelites throughout their generations. 
Exodus12:43 The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of the Passover: No foreigner shall eat of it;" 
Exodus12:44 But every man's servant who is bought for money, when you have circumcised him, then may he eat of it." 
Exodus12:45 A foreigner or hired servant shall not eat of it. 
Exodus12:46 In one house shall it be eaten [by one company]; you shall not carry any of the flesh outside the house; neither shall you break a bone of it. [John 19:33, 36.]" 
Exodus12:47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it. 
Exodus12:48 When a stranger sojourning with you wishes to keep the Passover to the Lord, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the land. But no uncircumcised person shall eat of it." 
Exodus12:49 There shall be one law for the native-born and for the stranger or foreigner who sojourns among you. 
Exodus12:50 Thus did all the Israelites; as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they." 
Exodus12:51 And on that very day the Lord brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt by their hosts. 
Exodus13:1 THE LORD said to Moses," 
Exodus13:2 Sanctify (consecrate, set apart) to Me all the firstborn [males]; whatever is first to open the womb among the Israelites, both of man and of beast, is Mine." 
Exodus13:3 And Moses said to the people, [Earnestly] remember this day in which you came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage and bondmen, for by strength of hand the Lord brought you out from this place; no leavened bread shall be eaten." 
Exodus13:4 This day you go forth in the month Abib. 
Exodus13:5 And when the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Hivites, and Jebusites, which He promised and swore to your fathers to give you, a land flowing with milk and honey [a land of plenty], you shall keep this service in this month." 
Exodus13:6 Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread and the seventh day shall be a feast to the Lord. 
Exodus13:7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days; no leavened bread shall be seen with you, neither shall there be leaven in all your territory." 
Exodus13:8 You shall explain to your son on that day, This is done because of what the Lord did for me when I came out of Egypt." 
Exodus13:9 It shall be as a sign to you upon your hand and as a memorial between your eyes, that the law of the Lord may be in your mouth; for with a strong hand the Lord has brought you out of Egypt." 
Exodus13:10 You shall therefore keep this ordinance at this time from year to year. 
Exodus13:11 And when the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as He promised and swore to you and your fathers, and shall give it to you," 
Exodus13:12 You shall set apart to the Lord all that first opens the womb. All the firstlings of your livestock that are males shall be the Lord's. 
Exodus13:13 Every firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem by [substituting for it] a lamb, or if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck; and every firstborn among your sons shall you redeem." 
Exodus13:14 And when, in time to come, your son asks you, What does this mean? You shall say to him, By strength of hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage and bondmen." 
Exodus13:15 For when Pharaoh stubbornly refused to let us go, the Lord slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and of livestock. Therefore I sacrifice to the Lord all the males that first open the womb; but all the firstborn of my sons I redeem." 
Exodus13:16 And it shall be as a reminder upon your hand or as frontlets between your eyes, for by a strong hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt." 
Exodus13:17 When Pharaoh let the people go, God led them not by way of the land of the Philistines, although that was nearer; for God said, Lest the people change their purpose when they see war and return to Egypt." 
Exodus13:18 But God led the people around by way of the wilderness toward the Red Sea. And the Israelites went up marshaled [in ranks] out of the land of Egypt. 
Exodus13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for [Joseph] had strictly sworn the Israelites, saying, Surely God will be with you, and you must carry my bones away from here with you. [Gen. 50:25.]" 
Exodus13:20 They journeyed from Succoth and encamped at Etham on the edge of the wilderness. 
Exodus13:21 The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night." 
Exodus13:22 The pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people. 
Exodus14:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus14:2 Tell the Israelites to turn back and encamp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the [Red] Sea, before Baal-zephon. You shall encamp opposite it by the sea." 
Exodus14:3 For Pharaoh will say of the Israelites, They are entangled in the land; the wilderness has shut them in." 
Exodus14:4 I will harden (make stubborn, strong) Pharaoh's heart, that he will pursue them, and I will gain honor and glory over Pharaoh and all his host, and the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. And they did so." 
Exodus14:5 It was told the king of Egypt that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was changed toward the people, and they said, What is this we have done? We have let Israel go from serving us!" 
Exodus14:6 And he made ready his chariots and took his army," 
Exodus14:7 And took 600 chosen chariots and all the other chariots of Egypt, with officers over all of them." 
Exodus14:8 The Lord made hard and strong the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued the Israelites, for [they] left proudly and defiantly. [Acts 13:17.]" 
Exodus14:9 The Egyptians pursued them, all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his army, and overtook them encamped at the [Red] Sea by Pi-hahiroth, in front of Baal-zephon." 
Exodus14:10 When Pharaoh drew near, the Israelites looked up, and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them; and the Israelites were exceedingly frightened and cried out to the Lord." 
Exodus14:11 And they said to Moses, Is it because there are no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you treated us this way and brought us out of Egypt?" 
Exodus14:12 Did we not tell you in Egypt, Let us alone; let us serve the Egyptians? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness." 
Exodus14:13 Moses told the people, Fear not; stand still (firm, confident, undismayed) and see the salvation of the Lord which He will work for you today. For the Egyptians you have seen today you shall never see again." 
Exodus14:14 The Lord will fight for you, and you shall hold your peace and remain at rest." 
Exodus14:15 The Lord said to Moses, Why do you cry to Me? Tell the people of Israel to go forward!" 
Exodus14:16 Lift up your rod and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it, and the Israelites shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea." 
Exodus14:17 And I, behold, I will harden (make stubborn and strong) the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall go [into the sea] after them; and I will gain honor over Pharaoh and all his host, his chariots, and horsemen." 
Exodus14:18 The Egyptians shall know and realize that I am the Lord when I have gained honor and glory over Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen." 
Exodus14:19 And the Angel of God Who went before the host of Israel moved and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from before them and stood behind them," 
Exodus14:20 Coming between the host of Egypt and the host of Israel. It was a cloud and darkness to the Egyptians, but it gave light by night to the Israelites; and the one host did not come near the other all night." 
Exodus14:21 Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night and made the sea dry land; and the waters were divided." 
Exodus14:22 And the Israelites went into the midst of the sea on dry ground, the waters being a wall to them on their right hand and on their left." 
Exodus14:23 The Egyptians pursued and went in after them into the midst of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen." 
Exodus14:24 And in the morning watch the Lord through the pillar of fire and cloud looked down on the host of the Egyptians and discomfited [them]," 
Exodus14:25 And bound (clogged, took off) their chariot wheels, making them drive heavily; and the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord fights for them against the Egyptians!" 
Exodus14:26 Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots and horsemen." 
Exodus14:27 So Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength and normal flow when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled into it [being met by it]; and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians and shook them off into the midst of the sea." 
Exodus14:28 The waters returned and covered the chariots, the horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that pursued them; not even one of them remained." 
Exodus14:29 But the Israelites walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea, the waters being a wall to them on their right hand and on their left." 
Exodus14:30 Thus the Lord saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore." 
Exodus14:31 And Israel saw that great work which the Lord did against the Egyptians, and the people [reverently] feared the Lord and trusted in (relied on, remained steadfast to) the Lord and to His servant Moses." 
Exodus15:1 THEN MOSES and the Israelites sang this song to the Lord, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for He has triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider or its chariot has He thrown into the sea." 
Exodus15:2 The Lord is my Strength and my Song, and He has become my Salvation; this is my God, and I will praise Him, my father's God, and I will exalt Him." 
Exodus15:3 The Lord is a Man of War; the Lord is His name. 
Exodus15:4 Pharaoh's chariots and his host has He cast into the sea; his chosen captains also are sunk in the Red Sea. 
Exodus15:5 The floods cover them; they sank in the depths [clad in mail] like a stone. 
Exodus15:6 Your right hand, O Lord, is glorious in power; Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy." 
Exodus15:7 In the greatness of Your majesty You overthrow those rising against You. You send forth Your fury; it consumes them like stubble. 
Exodus15:8 With the blast of Your nostrils the waters piled up, the floods stood fixed in a heap, the deeps congealed in the heart of the sea." 
Exodus15:9 The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my desire shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them." 
Exodus15:10 You [Lord] blew with Your wind, the sea covered them; [clad in mail] they sank as lead in the mighty waters." 
Exodus15:11 Who is like You, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like You, glorious in holiness, awesome in splendor, doing wonders?" 
Exodus15:12 You stretched out Your right hand, the earth's [sea] swallowed them." 
Exodus15:13 You in Your mercy and loving-kindness have led forth the people whom You have redeemed; You have guided them in Your strength to Your holy habitation. 
Exodus15:14 The peoples have heard of it; they tremble; pangs have taken hold on the inhabitants of Philistia. 
Exodus15:15 Now the chiefs of Edom are dismayed; the mighty men of Moab [renowned for strength], trembling takes hold of them; all the inhabitants of Canaan have melted away,little by little." 
Exodus15:16 Terror and dread fall upon them; because of the greatness of Your arm they are as still as a stone,till Your people pass by and over [into Canaan], O Lord, till the people pass by whom You have purchased." 
Exodus15:17 You will bring them in [to the land] and plant them on Your own mountain, the place, O Lord, You have made for Your dwelling, the sanctuary, O Lord, which Your hands have established." 
Exodus15:18 The Lord will reign forever and ever. 
Exodus15:19 For the horses of Pharaoh went with his chariots and horsemen into the sea, and the Lord brought back the waters of the sea upon them, but the Israelites walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea." 
Exodus15:20 Then Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and dancing." 
Exodus15:21 And Miriam responded to them, Sing to the Lord, for He has triumphed gloriously and is highly exalted; the horse and his rider He has thrown into the sea." 
Exodus15:22 Then Moses led Israel onward from the Red Sea and they went into the Wilderness of Shur; they went three days [thirty-three miles] in the wilderness and found no water. 
Exodus15:23 When they came to Marah, they could not drink its waters for they were bitter; therefore it was named Marah [bitterness]." 
Exodus15:24 The people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?" 
Exodus15:25 And he cried to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree which he cast into the waters, and the waters were made sweet. There [the Lord] made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there He proved them," 
Exodus15:26 Saying, If you will diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord your God and will do what is right in His sight, and will listen to and obey His commandments and keep all His statutes, I will put none of the diseases upon you which I brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the Lord Who heals you." 
Exodus15:27 And they came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees; and they encamped there by the waters." 
Exodus16:1 THEY SET out from Elim, and all the congregation of Israel came to the Wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after they left the land of Egypt." 
Exodus16:2 And the whole congregation of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness," 
Exodus16:3 And said to them, Would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the fleshpots and ate bread to the full; for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger." 
Exodus16:4 Then the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from the heavens for you; and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in My law or not." 
Exodus16:5 On the sixth day they shall prepare to bring in twice as much as they gather daily. 
Exodus16:6 So Moses and Aaron said to all Israel, At evening you shall know that the Lord has brought you out from the land of Egypt," 
Exodus16:7 And in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord, for He hears your murmurings against the Lord. For what are we, that you murmur against us?" 
Exodus16:8 And Moses said, [This will happen] when the Lord gives you in the evening flesh to eat and in the morning bread to the full, because the Lord has heard your grumblings which you murmur against Him; what are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against the Lord." 
Exodus16:9 And Moses said to Aaron, Say to all the congregation of Israel, Come near before the Lord, for He has heard your murmurings." 
Exodus16:10 And as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of Israel, they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud!" 
Exodus16:11 The Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus16:12 I have heard the murmurings of the Israelites; speak to them, saying, At twilight you shall eat meat, and between the two evenings you shall be filled with bread; and you shall know that I am the Lord your God." 
Exodus16:13 In the evening quails came up and covered the camp; and in the morning the dew lay round about the camp. 
Exodus16:14 And when the dew had gone, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a fine, round and flakelike thing, as fine as hoarfrost on the ground." 
Exodus16:15 When the Israelites saw it, they said one to another, Manna [What is it?]. For they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, This is the bread which the Lord has given you to eat. [John 6:31, 33.]" 
Exodus16:16 This is what the Lord has commanded: Let every man gather of it as much as he will need, an omer for each person, according to the number of your persons; take it, every man for those in his tent." 
Exodus16:17 The [people] did so, and gathered, some more, some less." 
Exodus16:18 When they measured it with an omer, he who gathered much had nothing over, and he who gathered little had no lack; each gathered according to his need." 
Exodus16:19 Moses said, Let none of it be left until morning." 
Exodus16:20 But they did not listen to Moses; some of them left of it until morning, and it bred worms, became foul, and stank; and Moses was angry with them." 
Exodus16:21 They gathered it every morning, each as much as he needed, for when the sun became hot it melted." 
Exodus16:22 And on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each person; and all the leaders of the congregation came and told Moses." 
Exodus16:23 He said to them, The Lord has said, Tomorrow is a solemn rest, a holy Sabbath to the Lord; bake and boil what you will bake and boil today; and all that remains over put aside for you to keep until morning." 
Exodus16:24 They laid it aside till morning, as Moses told them; and it did not become foul, neither was it wormy." 
Exodus16:25 Moses said, Eat that today, for today is a Sabbath to the Lord. Today you shall find none in the field." 
Exodus16:26 Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there shall be none." 
Exodus16:27 On the seventh day some of the people went out to gather, but they found none." 
Exodus16:28 The Lord said to Moses, How long do you [people] refuse to keep My commandments and My laws?" 
Exodus16:29 See, the Lord has given you the Sabbath; therefore He gives you on the sixth day the bread for two days; let every man remain in his place; let no man leave his place on the seventh day." 
Exodus16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day. 
Exodus16:31 The house of Israel called the bread manna; it was like coriander seed, white, and it tasted like wafers made with honey." 
Exodus16:32 Moses said, This is what the Lord commands, Take an omer of it to be kept throughout your generations, that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt." 
Exodus16:33 And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pot and put an omer of manna in it, and lay it up before the Lord, to be kept throughout your generations." 
Exodus16:34 As the Lord commanded Moses, Aaron laid it up before the Testimony to be kept [in the ark]. [Heb. 9:4.]" 
Exodus16:35 And the Israelites ate manna forty years, until they came to a habitable land; they ate the manna until they came to the border of the land of Canaan." 
Exodus16:36 (Now an omer is the tenth of an ephah.) 
Exodus17:1 ALL THE congregation of the Israelites moved on from the Wilderness of Sin by stages, according to the commandment of the Lord, and encamped at Rephidim; but there was no water for the people to drink." 
Exodus17:2 Therefore, the people contended with Moses, and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you find fault with me? Why do you tempt the Lord and try His patience?" 
Exodus17:3 But the people thirsted there for water, and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and livestock with thirst?" 
Exodus17:4 So Moses cried to the Lord, What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me." 
Exodus17:5 And the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people, and take with you some of the elders of Israel; and take in your hand the rod with which you smote the river [Nile], and go." 
Exodus17:6 Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at [Mount] Horeb; and you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. [I Cor. 10:4.]" 
Exodus17:7 He called the place Massah [proof] and Meribah [contention] because of the faultfinding of the Israelites and because they tempted and tried the patience of the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not?" 
Exodus17:8 Then came Amalek [descendants of Esau] and fought with Israel at Rephidim. 
Exodus17:9 And Moses said to Joshua, Choose us out men and go out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand." 
Exodus17:9 And Moses said to Joshua, Choose us out men and go out, fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand." 
Exodus17:10 So Joshua did as Moses said and fought with Amalek; and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the hilltop." 
Exodus17:10 So Joshua did as Moses said and fought with Amalek; and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the hilltop." 
Exodus17:11 When Moses held up his hand, Israel prevailed; and when he lowered his hand, Amalek prevailed." 
Exodus17:12 But Moses' hands were heavy and grew weary. So [the other men] took a stone and put it under him and he sat on it. Then Aaron and Hur held up his hands, one on one side and one on the other side; so his hands were steady until the going down of the sun." 
Exodus17:13 And Joshua mowed down and disabled Amalek and his people with the sword. 
Exodus17:13 And Joshua mowed down and disabled Amalek and his people with the sword. 
Exodus17:14 And the Lord said to Moses, Write this for a memorial in the book and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens. [I Sam. 15:2-8.]" 
Exodus17:14 And the Lord said to Moses, Write this for a memorial in the book and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens. [I Sam. 15:2-8.]" 
Exodus17:15 And Moses built an altar and called the name of it, The Lord is my Banner;" 
Exodus17:16 And he said, Because [theirs] is a hand against the throne of the Lord, the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation." 
Exodus18:1 NOW JETHRO [Reuel], the priest of Midian, Moses' father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel His people, and that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt." 
Exodus18:2 Then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after Moses had sent her back [to her father]," 
Exodus18:3 And her two sons, of whom the name of the one was Gershom [ expulsion, or a stranger there], for Moses said, I have been an alien in a strange land;" 
Exodus18:4 And the name of the other was Eliezer [God is help], for the God of my father, said Moses, was my help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh." 
Exodus18:5 And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came with Moses' sons and his wife to the wilderness where he was encamped at the mount of God [Horeb, or Sinai]." 
Exodus18:6 And he said [in a message] to Moses, I, your father-in-law Jethro, am come to you and your wife and her two sons with her." 
Exodus18:7 And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and bowed in homage and kissed him; and each asked the other of his welfare and they came into the tent. 
Exodus18:8 Moses told his father-in-law all the Lord had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians for Israel's sake and all the hardships that had come upon them by the way and how the Lord delivered them. 
Exodus18:9 Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness the Lord had done to Israel in that He had delivered them out of the hand of the Egyptians. 
Exodus18:10 Jethro said, Blessed be the Lord, Who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh, Who has delivered the people [Israel] from under the hand of the Egyptians." 
Exodus18:11 Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods. Yes, in the [very] thing in which they dealt proudly [He showed Himself infinitely superior to all their gods]." 
Exodus18:12 And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices [to offer] to God, and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses' father-in-law before God." 
Exodus18:13 Next day Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from morning till evening." 
Exodus18:14 When Moses' father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, What is this that you do for the people? Why do you sit alone, and all the people stand around you from morning till evening?" 
Exodus18:15 Moses said to his father-in-law, Because the people come to me to inquire of God." 
Exodus18:16 When they have a dispute they come to me, and I judge between a man and his neighbor, and I make them know the statutes of God and His laws." 
Exodus18:17 Moses' father-in-law said to him, The thing that you are doing is not good." 
Exodus18:18 You will surely wear out both yourself and this people with you, for the thing is too heavy for you; you are not able to perform it all by yourself." 
Exodus18:19 Listen now to [me]; I will counsel you, and God will be with you. You shall represent the people before God, bringing their cases and causes to Him," 
Exodus18:20 Teaching them the decrees and laws, showing them the way they must walk and the work they must do." 
Exodus18:21 Moreover, you shall choose able men from all the people,God-fearing men of truth who hate unjust gain,and place them over thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens, to be their rulers." 
Exodus18:22 And let them judge the people at all times; every great matter they shall bring to you, but every small matter they shall judge. So it will be easier for you, and they will bear the burden with you." 
Exodus18:23 If you will do this, and God so commands you, you will be able to endure [the strain], and all these people also will go to their [tents] in peace." 
Exodus18:24 So Moses listened to and heeded the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said. 
Exodus18:25 Moses chose able men out of all Israel and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens." 
Exodus18:26 And they judged the people at all times; the hard cases they brought to Moses, but every small matter they decided themselves." 
Exodus18:27 Then Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way into his own land." 
Exodus19:1 IN THE third month after the Israelites left the land of Egypt, the same day, they came into the Wilderness of Sinai." 
Exodus19:2 When they had departed from Rephidim and had come to the Wilderness of Sinai, they encamped there before the mountain." 
Exodus19:3 And Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him out of the mountain, Say this to the house of Jacob and tell the Israelites:" 
Exodus19:4 You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to Myself." 
Exodus19:5 Now therefore, if you will obey My voice in truth and keep My covenant, then you shall be My own peculiar possession and treasure from among and above all peoples; for all the earth is Mine." 
Exodus19:6 And you shall be to Me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation [consecrated, set apart to the worship of God]. These are the words you shall speak to the Israelites." 
Exodus19:7 So Moses called for the elders of the people and told them all these words which the Lord commanded him. 
Exodus19:8 And all the people answered together, and said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do. And Moses reported the words of the people to the Lord." 
Exodus19:9 And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you and believe you and remain steadfast forever. Then Moses told the words of the people to the Lord." 
Exodus19:10 And the Lord said to Moses, Go and sanctify the people [set them apart for God] today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes" 
Exodus19:11 And be ready by the third day, for the third day the Lord will come down upon Mount Sinai [in the cloud] in the sight of all the people." 
Exodus19:12 And you shall set bounds for the people round about, saying, Take heed that you go not up into the mountain or touch the border of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death." 
Exodus19:13 No hand shall touch it [or the offender], but he shall surely be stoned or shot [with arrows]; whether beast or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain. [Num. 24:8.]" 
Exodus19:14 So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified them [set them apart for God], and they washed their clothes." 
Exodus19:15 And he said to the people, Be ready by the day after tomorrow; do not go near a woman." 
Exodus19:16 The third morning there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast, so that all the people in the camp trembled." 
Exodus19:17 Then Moses brought the people from the camp to meet God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain." 
Exodus19:18 Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke, for the Lord descended upon it in fire; its smoke ascended like that of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly." 
Exodus19:19 As the trumpet blast grew louder and louder, Moses spoke and God answered him with a voice. [Deut. 4:12.]" 
Exodus19:20 The Lord came down upon Mount Sinai to the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up." 
Exodus19:21 The Lord said to Moses, Go down and warn the people, lest they break through to the Lord to gaze and many of them perish." 
Exodus19:22 And also let the priests, who come near to the Lord, sanctify (set apart) themselves [for God], lest the Lord break forth against them." 
Exodus19:23 And Moses said to the Lord, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for You Yourself charged us, saying, Set bounds about the mountain and sanctify it [set it apart for God]." 
Exodus19:24 Then the Lord said to him, Go, get down and you shall come up, you and Aaron with you; but let not the priests and the people break through to come up to the Lord, lest He break forth against them." 
Exodus19:25 So Moses went down to the people and told them. 
Exodus20:1 THEN GOD spoke all these words: 
Exodus20:2 I am the Lord your God, Who has brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage." 
Exodus20:3 You shall have no other gods before or besides Me. 
Exodus20:4 You shall not make yourself any graven image [to worship it] or any likeness of anything that is in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth;" 
Exodus20:5 You shall not bow down yourself to them or serve them; for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate Me, [Isa. 42:8; 48:11.]" 
Exodus20:6 But showing mercy and steadfast love to a thousand generations of those who love Me and keep My commandments. 
Exodus20:7 You shall not use or repeat the name of the Lord your God in vain [that is, lightly or frivolously, in false affirmations or profanely]; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes His name in vain." 
Exodus20:8 [Earnestly] remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy (withdrawn from common employment and dedicated to God)." 
Exodus20:9 Six days you shall labor and do all your work," 
Exodus20:10 But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God; in it you shall not do any work, you, or your son, your daughter, your manservant, your maidservant, your domestic animals, or the sojourner within your gates." 
Exodus20:11 For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. That is why the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it [set it apart for His purposes]." 
Exodus20:12 Regard (treat with honor, due obedience, and courtesy) your father and mother, that your days may be long in the land the Lord your God gives you." 
Exodus20:13 You shall not commit murder. 
Exodus20:14 You shall not commit adultery. [Prov. 6:25, 26; Matt. 5:28; Rom. 1:24; Eph. 5:3.]" 
Exodus20:15 You shall not steal. [Prov. 11:1; 16:8; 21:6; 22:16; Jer. 17:11; Mal. 3:8.] 
Exodus20:16 You shall not witness falsely against your neighbor. [Exod. 23:1; Prov. 19:9; 24:28.] 
Exodus20:17 You shall not covet your neighbor's house, your neighbor's wife, or his manservant, or his maidservant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's. [Luke 12:15; Col. 3:5.]" 
Exodus20:18 Now all the people perceived the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet and the smoking mountain, and as [they] looked they trembled with fear and fell back and stood afar off." 
Exodus20:19 And they said to Moses, You speak to us and we will listen, but let not God speak to us, lest we die." 
Exodus20:20 And Moses said to the people, Fear not; for God has come to prove you, so that the [reverential] fear of Him may be before you, that you may not sin." 
Exodus20:21 And the people stood afar off, but Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was." 
Exodus20:22 And the Lord said to Moses, Thus shall you say to the Israelites, You have seen for yourselves that I have talked with you from heaven." 
Exodus20:23 You shall not make [gods to share] with Me [My glory and your worship]; gods of silver or gods of gold you shall not make for yourselves. 
Exodus20:24 An altar of earth you shall make to Me and sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. In every place where I record My name and cause it to be remembered I will come to you and bless you." 
Exodus20:25 And if you will make Me an altar of stone, you shall not build it of hewn stone, for if you lift up a tool upon it you have polluted it." 
Exodus20:26 Neither shall you go up by steps to My altar, that your nakedness be not exposed upon it." 
Exodus21:1 NOW THESE are the ordinances you [Moses] shall set before [the Israelites]. 
Exodus21:2 If you buy a Hebrew servant [as the result of debt or theft], he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, paying nothing. [Lev. 25:39.]" 
Exodus21:3 If he came [to you] by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he came married, then his wife shall go out with him." 
Exodus21:4 If his master has given him a wife and she has borne him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out [of your service] alone." 
Exodus21:5 But if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go free," 
Exodus21:6 Then his master shall bring him to God [the judges as His agents]; he shall bring him to the door or doorpost and shall pierce his ear with an awl; and he shall serve him for life. 
Exodus21:7 If a man sells his daughter to be a maidservant or bondwoman, she shall not go out [in six years] as menservants do." 
Exodus21:8 If she does not please her master who has not espoused her to himself, he shall let her be redeemed. To sell her to a foreign people he shall have no power, for he has dealt faithlessly with her." 
Exodus21:9 And if he espouses her to his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter." 
Exodus21:10 If he marries again, her food, clothing, and privilege as a wife shall he not diminish." 
Exodus21:11 And if he does not do these three things for her, then shall she go out free, without payment of money." 
Exodus21:12 Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus21:13 But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God allowed him to fall into his hand, then I will appoint you a place to which he may flee [for protection until duly tried]. [Num. 35:22-28.]" 
Exodus21:14 But if a man comes willfully upon another to slay him craftily, you shall take him from My altar [to which he may have fled for protection], that he may die." 
Exodus21:15 Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus21:16 Whoever kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or is found with him in his possession, shall surely be put to death." 
Exodus21:17 Whoever curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus21:18 If men quarrel and one strikes another with a stone or with his fist and he does not die but keeps his bed," 
Exodus21:19 If he rises again and walks about leaning upon his staff, then he that struck him shall be clear, except he must pay for the loss of his time and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed." 
Exodus21:20 And if a man strikes his servant or his maid with a rod and he [or she] dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished." 
Exodus21:21 But if the servant lives on for a day or two, the offender shall not be punished, for he [has injured] his own property." 
Exodus21:22 If men contend with each other, and a pregnant woman [interfering] is hurt so that she has a miscarriage, yet no further damage follows, [the one who hurt her] shall surely be punished with a fine [paid] to the woman's husband, as much as the judges determine." 
Exodus21:23 But if any damage follows, then you shall give life for life," 
Exodus21:24 Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot," 
Exodus21:25 Burn for burn, wound for wound, and lash for lash." 
Exodus21:26 And if a man hits the eye of his servant or the eye of his maid so that it is destroyed, he shall let him go free for his eye's sake." 
Exodus21:27 And if he knocks out his manservant's tooth or his maidservant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake." 
Exodus21:28 If an ox gores a man or a woman to death, then the ox shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be clear." 
Exodus21:29 But if the ox has tried to gore before, and its owner has been warned but has not kept it closed in and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned and its owner also put to death." 
Exodus21:30 If a ransom is put on [the man's] life, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is laid upon him." 
Exodus21:31 If the [man's ox] has gored another's son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to this same rule." 
Exodus21:32 If the ox gores a manservant or a maidservant, the owner shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned." 
Exodus21:33 If a man leaves a pit open or digs a pit and does not cover it and an ox or a donkey falls into it," 
Exodus21:34 The owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money to the animal's owner, but the dead beast shall be his." 
Exodus21:35 If one man's ox hurts another's so that it dies, they shall sell the live ox and divide the price of it; the dead ox also they shall divide between them." 
Exodus21:36 Or if it is known that the ox has gored in the past, and its owner has not kept it closed in, he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his." 
Exodus22:1 IF A man steals an ox or sheep and kills or sells it, he shall pay five oxen for an ox, or four sheep for a sheep." 
Exodus22:2 If a thief is found breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no blood shed for him." 
Exodus22:3 But if the sun has risen [so he can be seen], blood must be shed for slaying him. The thief [if he lives] must make full restitution; if he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft." 
Exodus22:4 If the beast which he stole is found in his possession alive, whether it is ox or ass or sheep, he shall restore double." 
Exodus22:5 If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over or lets his beast loose and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution of the best of his own field or his own vineyard." 
Exodus22:6 If fire breaks out and catches so that the stacked grain or standing grain or the field be consumed, he who kindled the fire shall make full restitution." 
Exodus22:7 If a man delivers to his neighbor money or goods to keep and it is stolen out of the neighbor's house, then, if the thief is found, he shall pay double." 
Exodus22:8 But if the thief is not found, the house owner shall appear before God [the judges as His agents] to find whether he stole his neighbor's goods." 
Exodus22:9 For every unlawful deed, whether it concerns ox, donkey, sheep, clothing, or any lost thing at all, which another identifies as his, the cause of both parties shall come before God [the judges]. Whomever [they] shall condemn shall pay his neighbor double." 
Exodus22:10 If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any beast to keep and it dies or is hurt or driven away, no man seeing it," 
Exodus22:11 Then an oath before the Lord shall be required between the two that the man has not taken his neighbor's property; and the owner of it shall accept his word and not require him to make good the loss. 
Exodus22:12 But if it is stolen when in his care, he shall make restitution to its owner." 
Exodus22:13 If it be torn in pieces [by some wild beast or by accident], let him bring [the mangled carcass] for witness; he shall not make good what was torn." 
Exodus22:14 And if a man borrows anything of his neighbor and it gets hurt or dies without its owner being with it, the borrower shall make full restitution." 
Exodus22:15 But if the owner is with it [when the damage is done], the borrower shall not make it good. If it is a hired thing, the damage is included in its hire." 
Exodus22:16 If a man seduces a virgin not betrothed and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to become his wife." 
Exodus22:17 If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money equivalent to the dowry of virgins." 
Exodus22:18 You shall not allow a woman to live who practices sorcery. 
Exodus22:19 Whoever lies carnally with a beast shall surely be put to death. 
Exodus22:20 He who sacrifices to any god but the Lord only shall be utterly destroyed. 
Exodus22:21 You shall not wrong a stranger or oppress him; for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 
Exodus22:22 You shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child. 
Exodus22:23 If you afflict them in any way and they cry at all to Me, I will surely hear their cry;" 
Exodus22:24 And My wrath shall burn; I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall be widows and your children fatherless." 
Exodus22:25 If you lend money to any of My people with you who is poor, you shall not be to him as a creditor, neither shall you require interest from him." 
Exodus22:26 If you ever take your neighbor's garment in pledge, you shall give it back to him before the sun goes down;" 
Exodus22:27 For that is his only covering, his clothing for his body. In what shall he sleep? When he cries to Me, I will hear, for I am gracious and merciful." 
Exodus22:28 You shall not revile God [the judges as His agents] or esteem lightly or curse a ruler of your people. 
Exodus22:29 You shall not delay to bring to Me from the fullness [of your harvested grain] and the outflow [of your grape juice and olive oil]; give Me the firstborn of your sons [or redeem them]. [Exod. 34:19, 20.]" 
Exodus22:30 Likewise shall you do with your oxen and your sheep. Seven days the firstborn [beast] shall be with its mother; on the eighth day you shall give it to Me. 
Exodus22:31 And you shall be holy men [consecrated] to Me; therefore you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by beasts in the field; you shall throw it to the dogs. 
Exodus23:1 YOU SHALL not repeat or raise a false report; you shall not join with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness. 
Exodus23:2 You shall not follow a crowd to do evil; nor shall you bear witness at a trial so as to side with a multitude to pervert justice. 
Exodus23:3 Neither shall you be partial to a poor man in his trial [just because he is poor]. 
Exodus23:4 If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again." 
Exodus23:5 If you see the donkey of one who hates you lying [helpless] under his load, you shall refrain from leaving the man to cope with it alone; you shall help him to release the animal." 
Exodus23:6 You shall not pervert the justice due to your poor in his cause. 
Exodus23:7 Keep far from a false matter and [be very careful] not to condemn to death the innocent and the righteous, for I will not justify and acquit the wicked." 
Exodus23:8 You shall take no bribe, for the bribe blinds those who have sight and perverts the testimony and the cause of the righteous." 
Exodus23:9 Also you shall not oppress a temporary resident, for you know the heart of a stranger and sojourner, seeing you were strangers and sojourners in Egypt." 
Exodus23:10 Six years you shall sow your land and reap its yield. 
Exodus23:11 But the seventh year you shall release it and let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat [what the land voluntarily yields], and what they leave the wild beasts shall eat. In like manner you shall deal with your vineyard and olive grove." 
Exodus23:12 Six days you shall do your work, but the seventh day you shall rest and keep Sabbath, that your ox and your donkey may rest, and the son of your bondwoman, and the alien, may be refreshed." 
Exodus23:13 In all I have said to you take heed; do not mention the name of other gods [either in blessing or cursing]; do not let such speech be heard from your mouth. 
Exodus23:14 Three times in the year you shall keep a feast to Me. 
Exodus23:15 You shall keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month of Abib, for in it you came out of Egypt. None shall appear before Me empty-handed." 
Exodus23:16 Also you shall keep the Feast of Harvest [Pentecost], [acknowledging] the firstfruits of your toil, of what you sow in the field. And [third] you shall keep the Feast of Ingathering [Booths or Tabernacles] at the end of the year, when you gather in the fruit of your labors from the field." 
Exodus23:17 Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the Lord God. 
Exodus23:18 You shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leavened bread [but keep it unmixed], neither shall the fat of My feast remain all night until morning." 
Exodus23:19 The first of the firstfruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk. 
Exodus23:20 Behold, I send an Angel before you to keep and guard you on the way and to bring you to the place I have prepared." 
Exodus23:21 Give heed to Him, listen to and obey His voice; be not rebellious before Him or provoke Him, for He will not pardon your transgression; for My Name is in Him. [Exod. 32:34; 33:14; Isa. 63:9.]" 
Exodus23:22 But if you will indeed listen to and obey His voice and all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries." 
Exodus23:23 When My Angel goes before you and brings you to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, and I reject them and blot them out," 
Exodus23:24 You shall not bow down to their gods or serve them or do after their works; but you shall utterly overthrow them and break down their pillars and images. 
Exodus23:25 You shall serve the Lord your God; He shall bless your bread and water, and I will take sickness from your midst." 
Exodus23:26 None shall lose her young by miscarriage or be barren in your land; I will fulfill the number of your days. 
Exodus23:27 I will send My terror before you and will throw into confusion all the people to whom you shall come, and I will make all your foes turn from you [in flight]." 
Exodus23:28 And I will send hornets before you which shall drive out the Hivite, Canaanite, and Hittite from before you." 
Exodus23:29 I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate [for lack of attention] and the wild beasts multiply against you." 
Exodus23:30 Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have increased and are numerous enough to take possession of the land." 
Exodus23:31 I will set your borders from the Red Sea to the Sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the river [Euphrates]; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand and you shall drive them out before you." 
Exodus23:32 You shall make no covenant with them or with their gods. 
Exodus23:33 They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against Me; for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you." 
Exodus24:1 GOD SAID to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu [Aaron's sons], and seventy of Israel's elders, and worship at a distance." 
Exodus24:2 Moses alone shall come near the Lord; the others shall not come near, and neither shall the people come up with him." 
Exodus24:3 Moses came and told the people all that the Lord had said and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice, All that the Lord has spoken we will do." 
Exodus24:4 Moses wrote all the words of the Lord. He rose up early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain and set up twelve pillars representing Israel's twelve tribes. 
Exodus24:5 And he sent young Israelite men, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord." 
Exodus24:6 And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he dashed against the altar." 
Exodus24:7 Then he took the Book of the Covenant and read in the hearing of the people; and they said, All that the Lord has said we will do, and we will be obedient." 
Exodus24:8 And Moses took the [remaining half of the] blood and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. [I Cor. 11:25; Heb. 8:6; 10:28, 29.]" 
Exodus24:9 Then Moses, Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up [the mountainside]." 
Exodus24:10 And they saw the God of Israel [that is, a convincing manifestation of His presence], and under His feet it was like pavement of bright sapphire stone, like the very heavens in clearness. [Exod. 33:20-23; Deut. 4:12; Ezek. 28:14]" 
Exodus24:11 And upon the nobles of the Israelites He laid not His hand [to conceal Himself from them, to rebuke their daring, or to harm them]; but they saw [the manifestation of the presence of] God, and ate and drank. [Exod. 19:21.]" 
Exodus24:12 And the Lord said to Moses, Come up to Me into the mountain and be there, and I will give you tables of stone, with the law and the commandments which I have written that you may teach them. [II Cor. 3:2, 3.]" 
Exodus24:13 So Moses rose up with Joshua his attendant; and Moses went up into the mountain of God. 
Exodus24:13 So Moses rose up with Joshua his attendant; and Moses went up into the mountain of God. 
Exodus24:14 And he said to the elders, Tarry here for us until we come back to you; remember, Aaron and Hur are with you; whoever has a cause, let him go to them." 
Exodus24:15 Then Moses went up into the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain." 
Exodus24:16 The glory of the Lord rested on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it for six days. On the seventh day [God] called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud." 
Exodus24:17 And the glory of the Lord appeared to the Israelites like devouring fire on the top of the mountain. 
Exodus24:18 Moses entered into the midst of the cloud and went up the mountain, and Moses was on the mountain forty days and nights." 
Exodus25:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus25:2 Speak to the Israelites, that they take for Me an offering. From every man who gives it willingly and ungrudgingly with his heart you shall take My offering." 
Exodus25:3 This is the offering you shall receive from them: gold, silver, and bronze," 
Exodus25:4 Blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and fine twined linen and goats' hair," 
Exodus25:5 Rams' skins tanned red, goatskins, dolphin or porpoise skins, acacia wood," 
Exodus25:6 Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil and for sweet incense," 
Exodus25:7 Onyx stones, and stones for setting in the ephod and in the breastplate." 
Exodus25:8 Let them make Me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. [Heb. 8:1, 2; 10:1.]" 
Exodus25:9 And you shall make it according to all that I show you, the pattern of the tabernacle or dwelling and the pattern of all the furniture of it." 
Exodus25:10 They shall make an ark of acacia wood: two and a half cubits long, a cubit and a half wide, and a cubit and a half high." 
Exodus25:11 You shall overlay the ark with pure gold, inside and out, and make a gold crown, a rim or border, around its top." 
Exodus25:12 You shall cast four gold rings and attach them to the four lower corners of it, two rings on either side." 
Exodus25:13 You shall make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold," 
Exodus25:14 And put the poles through the rings on the ark's sides, by which to carry it." 
Exodus25:15 The poles shall remain in the rings of the ark; they shall not be removed from it [that the ark be not touched]. 
Exodus25:16 And you shall put inside the ark the Testimony [the Ten Commandments] which I will give you. 
Exodus25:17 And you shall make a mercy seat (a covering) of pure gold, two cubits and a half long and a cubit and a half wide." 
Exodus25:18 And you shall make two cherubim (winged angelic figures) of [solid] hammered gold on the two ends of the mercy seat. 
Exodus25:19 Make one cherub on each end, making the cherubim of one piece with the mercy seat, on the two ends of it." 
Exodus25:20 And the cherubim shall spread out their wings above, covering the mercy seat with their wings, facing each other and looking down toward the mercy seat." 
Exodus25:21 You shall put the mercy seat on the top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the Testimony [the Ten Commandments] that I will give you." 
Exodus25:22 There I will meet with you and, from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim that are upon the ark of the Testimony, I will speak intimately with you of all which I will give you in commandment to the Israelites." 
Exodus25:23 Also, make a table of acacia wood, two cubits long, one cubit wide, and a cubit and a half high [for the showbread]." 
Exodus25:24 You shall overlay it with pure gold and make a crown, a rim or molding, of gold around the top of it;" 
Exodus25:25 And make a frame of a handbreadth around and below the top of it and put around it a gold molding as a border. 
Exodus25:26 You shall make for it four rings of gold and fasten them at the four corners that are on the table's four legs. 
Exodus25:27 Close against the frame shall the rings be as places for the poles to pass to carry the table [of showbread]. 
Exodus25:28 You shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, that the table may be carried with them." 
Exodus25:29 And you shall make its plates [for showbread] and cups [for incense], and its flagons and bowls [for liquids in sacrifice]; make them of pure gold." 
Exodus25:30 And you shall set the showbread (the bread of the Presence) on the table before Me always. [John 6:58.] 
Exodus25:31 You shall make a lampstand of pure gold. Of beaten and turned work shall the lampstand be made, both its base and its shaft; its cups, its knobs, and its flowers shall be of one piece with it." 
Exodus25:32 Six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three branches of the lampstand out of the one side and three branches out of its other side; 
Exodus25:33 Three cups made like almond blossoms, each with a knob and a flower on one branch, and three cups made like almond blossoms on the other branch with a knob and a flower; so for the six branches coming out of the lampstand;" 
Exodus25:34 And on the [center shaft] itself you shall [make] four cups like almond blossoms with their knobs and their flowers. 
Exodus25:35 Also make a knob [on the shaft] under each pair of the six branches going out from the lampstand and one piece with it; 
Exodus25:36 Their knobs and their branches shall be of one piece with it; the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold. 
Exodus25:37 And you shall make the lamps of the [lampstand] to include a seventh one [at the top of the shaft]. [The priests] shall set up the [seven] lamps of it so they may give light in front of it. 
Exodus25:38 Its snuffers and its ashtrays shall be of pure gold. 
Exodus25:39 Use a talent of pure gold for it, including all these utensils." 
Exodus25:40 And see to it that you copy [exactly] their pattern which was shown you on the mountain. [Heb. 8:5, 6.]" 
Exodus26:1 MOREOVER, YOU shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, and blue and purple and scarlet [stuff], with cherubim skillfully embroidered shall you make them." 
Exodus26:2 The length of one curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits and the breadth of one curtain four cubits; each of the curtains shall measure the same. 
Exodus26:3 The five curtains shall be coupled to one another, and the other five curtains shall be coupled to one another." 
Exodus26:4 And you shall make loops of blue on the edge of the last curtain in the first set, and likewise in the second set." 
Exodus26:5 Fifty loops you shall make on the one curtain and fifty loops on the edge of the last curtain that is in the second coupling or set, so that the loops on one correspond to the loops on the other." 
Exodus26:6 And you shall make fifty clasps of gold and fasten the curtains together with the clasps; then the tabernacle shall be one whole. 
Exodus26:7 And make curtains of goats' hair to be a [second] covering over the tabernacle; eleven curtains shall you make. 
Exodus26:8 One curtain shall be thirty cubits long and four cubits wide; and the eleven curtains shall all measure the same. 
Exodus26:9 You shall join together five curtains by themselves and six curtains by themselves, and shall double over the sixth curtain in the front of the tabernacle [to make a closed door]." 
Exodus26:10 And make fifty loops on the edge of the outmost curtain in the one set and fifty loops on the edge of the outmost curtain in the second set. 
Exodus26:11 You shall make fifty clasps of bronze and put the clasps into the loops and couple the tent together, that it may be one whole." 
Exodus26:12 The surplus that remains of the tent curtains, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle." 
Exodus26:13 And the cubit on the one side and the cubit on the other side of what remains in the length of the curtains of the tent shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and that side, to cover it." 
Exodus26:14 You shall make a [third] covering for the tent of rams' skins tanned red, and a [fourth] covering above that of dolphin or porpoise skins." 
Exodus26:15 And you shall make the upright frame for the tabernacle of boards of acacia wood. 
Exodus26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of one board. 
Exodus26:17 Make two tenons in each board for dovetailing and fitting together; so shall you do for all the tabernacle boards. 
Exodus26:18 And make the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side; 
Exodus26:19 And you shall make forty silver sockets under the twenty boards, two sockets under each board for its two tenons." 
Exodus26:20 And for the north side of the tabernacle there shall be twenty boards 
Exodus26:21 And their forty silver sockets, two sockets under each board." 
Exodus26:22 For the back or west side of the tabernacle you shall make six boards. 
Exodus26:23 Make two boards for the corners of the tabernacle in the rear on both sides. 
Exodus26:24 They shall be coupled down below and coupled together on top with one ring. Thus shall it be for both of them; they shall form the two corners. 
Exodus26:25 And that will be eight boards and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two sockets under each board." 
Exodus26:26 And you shall make bars of acacia wood: five for the boards of one side," 
Exodus26:27 And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the rear end of the tabernacle, for the back wall to the west." 
Exodus26:28 And the middle bar halfway up the boards shall pass through from end to end. 
Exodus26:29 You shall overlay the boards with gold and make their rings of gold to hold the bars and overlay the bars with gold. 
Exodus26:30 You shall erect the tabernacle after the plan of it shown you on the mountain. 
Exodus26:31 And make a veil of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and fine twined linen, skillfully worked with cherubim on it." 
Exodus26:32 You shall hang it on four pillars of acacia wood overlaid with gold, with gold hooks, on four sockets of silver." 
Exodus26:33 And you shall hang the veil from the clasps and bring the ark of the Testimony into place within the veil; and the veil shall separate for you the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. 
Exodus26:34 And you shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the Testimony in the Most Holy Place. 
Exodus26:35 And you shall set the table [for the showbread] outside the veil [in the Holy Place] on the north side and the lampstand opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle. 
Exodus26:36 You shall make a hanging [to form a screen] for the door of the tent of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and fine twined linen, embroidered. [John 10:9.]" 
Exodus26:37 You shall make five pillars of acacia wood to support the hanging curtain and overlay them with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, and you shall cast five [base] sockets of bronze for them." 
Exodus27:1 AND MAKE the altar of acacia wood, five cubits square and three cubits high [within reach of all]." 
Exodus27:2 Make horns for it on its four corners; they shall be of one piece with it, and you shall overlay it with bronze." 
Exodus27:3 You shall make pots to take away its ashes, and shovels, basins, forks, and firepans; make all its utensils of bronze." 
Exodus27:4 Also make for it a grate, a network of bronze; and on the net you shall make four bronze rings at its four corners." 
Exodus27:5 And you shall put it under the ledge of the altar, so that the net will extend halfway down the altar." 
Exodus27:6 And make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood overlaid with bronze." 
Exodus27:7 The poles shall be put through the rings on the two sides of the altar, with which to carry it. [Num. 4:14, 15.]" 
Exodus27:8 You shall make [the altar] hollow with slabs or planks; as shown you on the mountain, so shall it be made." 
Exodus27:9 And you shall make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side the court shall have hangings of fine twined linen, a hundred cubits long for one side;" 
Exodus27:10 Their pillars shall be twenty and their sockets twenty, of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their joinings shall be of silver;" 
Exodus27:11 Likewise for the north side hangings, a hundred cubits long, and their twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their joinings shall be of silver." 
Exodus27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side there shall be hangings of fifty cubits, with ten pillars and ten sockets." 
Exodus27:13 The breadth of the court to the front, the east side, shall be fifty cubits." 
Exodus27:14 The hangings for one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits, with three pillars and three sockets." 
Exodus27:15 On the other side the hangings shall be fifteen cubits, with three pillars and three sockets." 
Exodus27:16 And for the gate of the court there shall be a hanging [for a screen] twenty cubits long, of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and fine twined linen, embroidered. It shall have four pillars and four sockets for them." 
Exodus27:17 All the pillars round about the court shall be joined together with silver rods; their hooks shall be of silver and their sockets of bronze. 
Exodus27:18 The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits and the breadth fifty and the height five cubits, [with hangings of] fine twined linen and sockets of bronze." 
Exodus27:19 All the tabernacle's utensils and instruments used in all its service, and all its pegs and all the pegs for the court, shall be of bronze." 
Exodus27:20 You shall command the Israelites to provide you with pure oil of crushed olives for the light, to cause it to burn continually [every night]." 
Exodus27:21 In the Tent of Meeting [of God with His people], outside the veil which sets apart the Testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it burning from evening to morning before the Lord. It shall be a statute to be observed on behalf of the Israelites throughout their generations." 
Exodus28:1 FROM AMONG the Israelites take your brother Aaron and his sons with him, that he may minister to Me in the priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons." 
Exodus28:2 And you shall make for Aaron your brother sacred garments [appointed official dress set apart for special holy services] for honor and for beauty. 
Exodus28:3 Tell all who are expert, whom I have endowed with skill and good judgment, that they shall make Aaron's garments to sanctify him for My priesthood." 
Exodus28:4 They shall make these garments: a breastplate, an ephod [a distinctive vestment to which the breastplate was to be attached], a robe, long and sleeved tunic of checkerwork, a turban, and a sash or band. They shall make sacred garments for Aaron your brother and his sons to minister to Me in the priest's office." 
Exodus28:5 They shall receive [from the people] and use gold, and blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine linen." 
Exodus28:6 And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine twined linen, skillfully woven and worked." 
Exodus28:7 It shall have two shoulder straps to join the two [back and front] edges, that it may be held together." 
Exodus28:8 The skillfully woven girding band which is on the ephod shall be made of the same, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine twined linen." 
Exodus28:9 And you shall take two onyx or beryl stones and engrave on them the names of the twelve sons of Israel; 
Exodus28:10 Six of their names on one stone and the six names of the rest on the other stone, arranged in order of their birth." 
Exodus28:11 With the work of a stone engraver, like the engravings of a signet, you shall engrave the two stones according to the names of the sons of Israel. You shall have them set in sockets or rosettes of gold." 
Exodus28:12 And you shall put the two stones upon the [two] shoulder straps of the ephod [of the high priest] as memorial stones for Israel; and Aaron shall bear their names upon his two shoulders as a memorial before the Lord. 
Exodus28:13 And you shall make sockets or rosettes of gold for settings," 
Exodus28:14 And two chains of pure gold, like cords shall you twist them, and fasten the corded chains to the settings." 
Exodus28:15 You shall make a breastplate of judgment, in skilled work; like the workmanship of the ephod shall you make it, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and of fine twined linen." 
Exodus28:16 The breastplate shall be square and doubled; a span [nine inches] shall be its length and a span shall be its breadth. 
Exodus28:17 You shall set in it four rows of stones: a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle shall be the first row;" 
Exodus28:18 The second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond [so called at that time];" 
Exodus28:19 The third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;" 
Exodus28:20 And the fourth row a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper; they shall be set in gold filigree." 
Exodus28:21 And the stones shall be twelve, according to the names of the sons of Israel, like the engravings of a signet, each with its name for the twelve tribes." 
Exodus28:22 You shall make for the breastplate chains of pure gold twisted like cords. 
Exodus28:23 You shall make on the breastplate two rings of gold and put [them] on the two edges of the breastplate. 
Exodus28:24 And you shall put the two twisted, cordlike chains of gold in the two rings which are on the edges of the breastplate." 
Exodus28:25 The other two ends of the two twisted, cordlike chains you shall fasten in the two sockets or rosettes in front, putting them on the shoulder straps of the ephod;" 
Exodus28:26 And make two rings of gold and put them at the two ends of the breastplate on its inside edge next to the ephod. 
Exodus28:27 Two gold rings you shall make and attach them to the lower part of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod in front, close by where they join, above the skillfully woven girdle or band of the ephod." 
Exodus28:28 And they shall bind the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above the skillfully woven girding band of the ephod, and that the breastplate may not become loose from the ephod." 
Exodus28:29 So Aaron shall bear the names of the sons of Israel in the breastplate of judgment upon his heart when he goes into the Holy Place, to bring them in continual remembrance before the Lord." 
Exodus28:30 In the breastplate of judgment you shall put the Urim and the Thummim [unspecified articles used when the high priest asked God's counsel for all Israel]; they shall be upon Aaron's heart when he goes in before the Lord, and Aaron shall bear the judgment (rights, judicial decisions) of the Israelites upon his heart before the Lord continually." 
Exodus28:31 Make the robe [to be worn beneath] the ephod all of blue. 
Exodus28:32 There shall be a hole in the center of it [to slip over the head], with a binding of woven work around the hole, like the opening in a coat of mail or a garment, that it may not fray or tear." 
Exodus28:33 And you shall make pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] around about its skirts, with gold bells between them;" 
Exodus28:34 A gold bell and a pomegranate, a gold bell and a pomegranate, round about on the skirts of the robe." 
Exodus28:35 Aaron shall wear the robe when he ministers, and its sound shall be heard when he goes [alone] into the Holy of Holies before the Lord and when he comes out, lest he die there." 
Exodus28:36 And you shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it, like the engravings of a signet, HOLY TO THE LORD. [Exod. 39:30.]" 
Exodus28:37 You shall fasten it on the front of the turban with a blue cord. 
Exodus28:38 It shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may take upon himself and bear [any] iniquity [connected with] the holy things which the Israelites shall give and dedicate; and it shall always be upon his forehead, that they may be accepted before the Lord [in the priest's person]. [Luke 24:44; Heb. 8:1, 2.]" 
Exodus28:39 And you shall weave the long and sleeved tunic of checkerwork of fine linen or silk and make a turban of fine linen or silk; and you shall make a girdle, the work of the embroiderer." 
Exodus28:40 For Aaron's sons you shall make long and sleeved tunics and belts or sashes and caps, for glory and honor and beauty." 
Exodus28:41 And you shall put them on Aaron your brother and his sons with him, and shall anoint them and ordain and sanctify them [set them apart for God], that they may serve Me as priests." 
Exodus28:42 You shall make for them [white] linen trunks to cover their naked flesh, reaching from the waist to the thighs." 
Exodus28:43 And they shall be on Aaron and his sons when they go into the Tent of Meeting or when they come near to the altar to minister in the Holy Place, lest they bring iniquity upon themselves and die; it shall be a statute forever to Aaron and to his descendants after him." 
Exodus29:1 THIS IS what you shall do to consecrate (set them apart) that they may serve Me as priests. Take one young bull and two rams, all without blemish," 
Exodus29:2 And unleavened bread and unleavened cakes mixed with oil and unleavened wafers spread with oil; of fine flour shall you make them. 
Exodus29:3 You shall put them in one basket and bring them in [it], and bring also the bull and the two rams;" 
Exodus29:4 And bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tent of Meeting [out where the laver is] and wash them with water. 
Exodus29:5 Then take the garments and put on Aaron the long and sleeved tunic and the robe of the ephod and the ephod and the breastplate, and gird him with the skillfully woven girding band of the ephod." 
Exodus29:6 And you shall put the turban or miter upon his head and put the holy crown upon the turban. 
Exodus29:7 Then take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him. 
Exodus29:8 And bring his sons and put long and sleeved tunics on them. 
Exodus29:9 And you shall gird them with sashes or belts, Aaron and his sons, and bind caps on them; and the priest's office shall be theirs by a perpetual statute. Thus you shall ordain and consecrate Aaron and his sons." 
Exodus29:10 Then bring the bull before the Tent of Meeting, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon its head." 
Exodus29:11 And you shall kill the bull before the Lord by the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus29:12 And you shall take of the blood of the bull and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger, and pour out all the blood at the base of the altar." 
Exodus29:13 And take all the fat that covers the entrails, and the appendage that is on the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, and burn them on the altar." 
Exodus29:14 But the flesh of the bull, its hide, and the contents of its entrails you shall burn with fire outside the camp; it is a sin offering. [Heb. 13:11-13.]" 
Exodus29:15 You shall also take one of the rams, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram." 
Exodus29:16 And you shall kill the ram and you shall take its blood and throw it against the altar round about. 
Exodus29:17 And you shall cut the ram in pieces and wash its entrails and legs and put them with its pieces and its head," 
Exodus29:18 And you shall burn the whole ram upon the altar. It is a burnt offering to the Lord; it is a sweet and satisfying fragrance, an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Exodus29:19 And you shall take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram;" 
Exodus29:20 Then you shall kill the ram and take part of its blood and put it on the tip of the right ears of Aaron and his sons and on the thumb of their right hands and on the great toe of their right feet, and dash the rest of the blood against the altar round about." 
Exodus29:21 Then you shall take part of the blood that is on the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron and his garments and on his sons and their garments; and he and his garments and his sons and their garments shall be sanctified and made holy." 
Exodus29:22 Also you shall take the fat of the ram, the fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails, the appendage on the liver, the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, and the right thigh; for it is a ram of consecration and ordination." 
Exodus29:23 Take also one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the Lord." 
Exodus29:24 And put all these in the hands of Aaron and his sons and they shall wave them for a wave offering before the Lord. 
Exodus29:25 Then you shall take them from their hands, add them to the burnt offering, and burn them on the altar for a sweet and satisfying fragrance before the Lord; it is an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Exodus29:26 And take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration and ordination and wave it for a wave offering before the Lord; and it shall be your portion [Moses]. 
Exodus29:27 And you shall sanctify (set apart for God) the waved breast of the ram used in the ordination and the waved thigh of the priests' portion, since it is for Aaron and his sons." 
Exodus29:28 It shall be for Aaron and his sons as their due portion from the Israelites perpetually, an offering from the Israelites of their peace and thanksgiving sacrifices, their offering to the Lord." 
Exodus29:29 The holy garments of Aaron shall pass to his descendants who succeed him, to be anointed in them and to be consecrated and ordained in them." 
Exodus29:30 And that son who is [high] priest in his stead shall put them on [each day for] seven days when he comes into the Tent of Meeting to minister in the Holy Place. 
Exodus29:31 You shall take the ram of the consecration and ordination and boil its flesh in a holy and set-apart place. 
Exodus29:32 Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread in the basket, at the door of the Tent of Meeting." 
Exodus29:33 They shall eat those things with which atonement was made, to ordain and consecrate them; but a stranger (layman) shall not eat of them because they are holy (set apart to the worship of God)." 
Exodus29:34 And if any of the flesh or bread for the ordination remains until morning, you shall burn it with fire; it shall not be eaten, because it is holy (set apart to the worship of God)." 
Exodus29:35 Thus shall you do to Aaron and to his sons according to all I have commanded you; during seven days shall you ordain them. 
Exodus29:36 You shall offer every day a bull as a sin offering for atonement. And you shall cleanse the altar by making atonement for it, and anoint it to consecrate it." 
Exodus29:37 Seven days you shall make atonement for the altar and sanctify it [set it apart for God]; and the altar shall be most holy; whoever or whatever touches the altar must be holy (set apart for God's service). 
Exodus29:38 Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: two lambs a year old shall be offered day by day continually. 
Exodus29:39 One lamb you shall offer in the morning and the other lamb in the evening; 
Exodus29:40 And with the one lamb a tenth measure of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil, and a fourth of a hin of wine for a drink offering [to be poured out]." 
Exodus29:41 And the other lamb you shall offer at evening, and do with it as with the cereal offering of the morning and with the drink offering, for a sweet and satisfying fragrance, an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Exodus29:42 This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the Tent of Meeting before the Lord, where I will meet with you to speak there to you." 
Exodus29:43 There I will meet with the Israelites, and the Tent of Meeting shall be sanctified by My glory [the Shekinah, God's visible presence]." 
Exodus29:44 And I will sanctify the Tent of Meeting and the altar; I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons to minister to Me in the priest's office. 
Exodus29:45 And I will dwell among the Israelites and be their God. 
Exodus29:46 And they shall know [from personal experience] that I am the Lord their God, Who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt that I might dwell among them; I am the Lord their God." 
Exodus30:1 AND YOU shall make an altar to burn incense upon; of acacia wood you shall make it. 
Exodus30:2 A cubit shall be its length and a cubit its breadth; its top shall be square and it shall be two cubits high. Its horns shall be of one piece with it. 
Exodus30:3 And you shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and its sides round about and its horns, and you shall make a crown (a rim or molding) of gold around it." 
Exodus30:4 You shall make two golden rings under the rim of it, on the two ribs on the two opposite sides of it; and they shall be holders for the poles with which to carry it." 
Exodus30:5 And you shall make the poles of acacia wood, overlaid with gold." 
Exodus30:6 You shall put the altar [of incense] in front and outside of the veil that screens the ark of the Testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the Testimony (the Law, the tables of stone), where I will meet with you." 
Exodus30:7 And Aaron shall burn on it incense of sweet spices; every morning when he trims and fills the lamps he shall burn it. [Ps. 141:2; Rev. 5:8; 8:3, 4.]" 
Exodus30:8 And when Aaron lights the lamps in the evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before the Lord throughout your generations." 
Exodus30:9 You shall offer no unholy incense on the altar nor burnt sacrifice nor cereal offering; and you shall pour no libation (drink offering) on it. 
Exodus30:10 Aaron shall make atonement upon the horns of it once a year; with the blood of the sin offering of atonement once in the year shall he make atonement upon and for it throughout your generations. It is most holy to the Lord. 
Exodus30:11 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus30:12 When you take the census of the Israelites, every man shall give a ransom for himself to the Lord when you number them, that no plague may fall upon them when you number them. [Rom. 8:1-4.]" 
Exodus30:13 This is what everyone shall give as he joins those already numbered: a half shekel, in terms of the sanctuary shekel, a shekel being twenty gerahs; a half shekel as an offering to the Lord." 
Exodus30:14 Everyone from twenty years old and upward, as he joins those already numbered, shall give this offering to the Lord. [Matt. 10:24; I Pet. 1:18, 19.]" 
Exodus30:15 The rich shall not give more and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel when [you] give this offering to the Lord to make atonement for yourselves. 
Exodus30:16 And you shall take the atonement money of the Israelites and use it [exclusively] for the service of the Tent of Meeting, that it may bring the Israelites to remembrance before the Lord, to make atonement for yourselves." 
Exodus30:17 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus30:18 You shall also make a laver or large basin of bronze, and its base of bronze, for washing; and you shall put it [outside in the court] between the Tent of Meeting and the altar [of burnt offering], and you shall put water in it;" 
Exodus30:19 There Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet. [Tit. 3:5.] 
Exodus30:20 When they go into the Tent of Meeting, they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to the Lord, [John 13:6-8.]" 
Exodus30:21 So they shall wash their hands and their feet, lest they die; it shall be a perpetual statute for [Aaron] and his descendants throughout their generations." 
Exodus30:22 Moreover, the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus30:23 Take the best spices: of liquid myrrh 500 shekels, of sweet-scented cinnamon half as much, 250 shekels, of fragrant calamus 250 shekels," 
Exodus30:24 And of cassia 500 shekels, in terms of the sanctuary shekel, and of olive oil a hin." 
Exodus30:25 And you shall make of these a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer; it shall be a sacred anointing oil." 
Exodus30:26 And you shall anoint the Tent of Meeting with it, and the ark of the Testimony," 
Exodus30:27 And the [showbread] table and all its utensils, and the lampstand and its utensils, and the altar of incense," 
Exodus30:28 And the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the laver [for cleansing] and its base." 
Exodus30:29 You shall sanctify (separate) them, that they may be most holy; whoever and whatever touches them must be holy (set apart to God)." 
Exodus30:30 And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons and sanctify (separate) them, that they may minister to Me as priests." 
Exodus30:31 And say to the Israelites, This is a holy anointing oil [symbol of the Holy Spirit], sacred to Me alone throughout your generations. [Rom. 8:9; I Cor. 12:3.]" 
Exodus30:32 It shall not be poured upon a layman's body, nor shall you make any other like it in composition; it is holy, and you shall hold it sacred." 
Exodus30:33 Whoever compounds any like it or puts any of it upon an outsider shall be cut off from his people. 
Exodus30:34 Then the Lord said to Moses, Take sweet spices,stacte, onycha, and galbanum, sweet spices with pure frankincense, an equal amount of each," 
Exodus30:35 And make of them incense, a perfume after the perfumer's art, seasoned with salt and mixed, pure and sacred." 
Exodus30:36 You shall beat some of it very small and put some of it before the Testimony in the Tent of Meeting, where I will meet with you; it shall be to you most holy." 
Exodus30:37 And the incense which you shall make according to its composition you shall not make for yourselves; it shall be to you holy to the Lord. 
Exodus30:38 Whoever makes any like it for perfume shall be cut off from his people. 
Exodus31:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus31:2 See, I have called by name Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus31:3 And I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom and ability, in understanding and intelligence, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of craftsmanship," 
Exodus31:4 To devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in bronze," 
Exodus31:5 And in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of craftsmanship." 
Exodus31:6 And behold, I have appointed with him Aholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and to all who are wisehearted I have given wisdom and ability to make all that I have commanded you:" 
Exodus31:7 The Tent of Meeting, the ark of the Testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furnishings of the tent," 
Exodus31:8 The table [of the showbread] and its utensils, the pure lampstand with all its utensils, the altar of incense," 
Exodus31:9 The altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, the laver and its base," 
Exodus31:10 The finely worked garments, the holy garments for Aaron the [high] priest and for his sons to minister as priests," 
Exodus31:11 And the anointing oil and incense of sweet spices for the Holy Place. According to all that I have commanded you shall they do. 
Exodus31:12 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus31:13 Say to the Israelites, Truly you shall keep My Sabbaths, for it is a sign between Me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I, the Lord, sanctify you [set you apart for Myself]." 
Exodus31:14 You shall keep the Sabbath therefore, for it is holy to you; everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does work on the Sabbath shall be cut off from among his people." 
Exodus31:15 Six days may work be done, but the seventh is the Sabbath of rest, sacred to the Lord; whoever does work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death." 
Exodus31:16 Wherefore the Israelites shall keep the Sabbath to observe it throughout their generations, a perpetual covenant." 
Exodus31:17 It is a sign between Me and the Israelites forever; for in six days the Lord made the heavens and earth, and on the seventh day He ceased and was refreshed." 
Exodus31:18 And He gave to Moses, when He had ceased communing with him on Mount Sinai, the two tables of the Testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God." 
Exodus32:1 WHEN THE people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, [they] gathered together to Aaron, and said to him, Up, make us gods to go before us; as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him." 
Exodus32:2 So Aaron replied, Take the gold rings from the ears of your wives, your sons, and daughters, and bring them to me." 
Exodus32:3 So all the people took the gold rings from their ears and brought them to Aaron. 
Exodus32:4 And he received the gold at their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made it a molten calf; and they said, These are your gods, O Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Egypt!" 
Exodus32:5 And when Aaron saw the molten calf, he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation, and said, Tomorrow shall be a feast to the Lord." 
Exodus32:6 And they rose up early the next day and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. 
Exodus32:7 The Lord said to Moses, Go down, for your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves;" 
Exodus32:8 They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten calf and have worshiped it and sacrificed to it, and said, These are your gods, O Israel, that brought you up out of the land of Egypt!" 
Exodus32:9 And the Lord said to Moses, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people;" 
Exodus32:10 Now therefore let Me alone, that My wrath may burn hot against them and that I may destroy them; but I will make of you a great nation." 
Exodus32:11 But Moses besought the Lord his God, and said, Lord, why does Your wrath blaze hot against Your people, whom You have brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power and a mighty hand?" 
Exodus32:12 Why should the Egyptians say, For evil He brought them forth, to slay them in the mountains and consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from Your fierce wrath, and change Your mind concerning this evil against Your people." 
Exodus32:13 [Earnestly] remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, Your servants, to whom You swore by Your own self and said to them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens, and all this land that I have spoken of will I give to your seed, and they shall inherit it forever." 
Exodus32:14 Then the Lord turned from the evil which He had thought to do to His people. 
Exodus32:15 And Moses turned and went down from the mountain with the two tables of the Testimony in his hand, tables or tablets that were written on both sides." 
Exodus32:16 The tables were the work of God; the writing was the writing of God, graven upon the tables." 
Exodus32:17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp." 
Exodus32:17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp." 
Exodus32:18 But Moses said, It is not the sound of shouting for victory, neither is it the sound of the cry of the defeated, but the sound of singing that I hear." 
Exodus32:19 And as soon as he came near to the camp he saw the calf and the dancing. And Moses' anger blazed hot and he cast the tables out of his hands and broke them at the foot of the mountain. 
Exodus32:20 And he took the calf they had made and burned it in the fire, and ground it to powder and scattered it on the water and made the Israelites drink it." 
Exodus32:21 And Moses said to Aaron, What did this people do to you, that you have brought so great a sin upon them?" 
Exodus32:22 And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord blaze hot; you know the people, that they are set on evil." 
Exodus32:23 For they said to me, Make us gods which shall go before us; as for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him." 
Exodus32:24 I said to them, Those who have any gold, let them take it off. So they gave it to me; then I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf." 
Exodus32:25 And when Moses saw that the people were unruly and unrestrained (for Aaron had let them get out of control, so that they were a derision and object of shame among their enemies)," 
Exodus32:26 Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Whoever is on the Lord's side, let him come to me. And all the Levites [the priestly tribe] gathered together to him." 
Exodus32:27 And he said to them, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, Every man put his sword on his side and go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp and slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor." 
Exodus32:28 And the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses; and there fell of the people that day about 3000 men. 
Exodus32:29 And Moses said [to the Levites, By your obedience to God's command] you have consecrated yourselves today [as priests] to the Lord, each man [at the cost of being] against his own son and his own brother, that the Lord may restore and bestow His blessing upon you this day." 
Exodus32:30 The next day Moses said to the people, You have sinned a great sin. And now I will go up to the Lord; perhaps I can make atonement for your sin." 
Exodus32:31 So Moses returned to the Lord, and said, Oh, these people have sinned a great sin and have made themselves gods of gold!" 
Exodus32:32 Yet now, if You will forgive their sin,and if not, blot me, I pray You, out of Your book which You have written!" 
Exodus32:33 But the Lord said to Moses, Whoever has sinned against Me, I will blot him [not you] out of My book. [Dan. 12:1; Phil. 4:3; Rev. 3:5.]" 
Exodus32:34 But now go, lead the people to the place of which I have told you. Behold, My Angel shall go before you. Nevertheless, in the day when I punish I will visit their sin upon them! [Exod. 23:20; 33:2, 3.]" 
Exodus32:35 And the Lord sent a plague upon the people because they made the calf which Aaron fashioned for them. 
Exodus33:1 THE LORD said to Moses, Depart, go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought from the land of Egypt, to the land which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, To your descendants I will give it." 
Exodus33:2 I will send an Angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanite, Amorite, Hittite, Perizzite, Hivite, and Jebusite. [Exod. 23:23; 34:11.]" 
Exodus33:3 Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey; but I will not go up among you, for you are a stiff-necked people, lest I destroy you on the way." 
Exodus33:4 When the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned and no man put on his ornaments." 
Exodus33:5 For the Lord had said to Moses, Say to the Israelites, You are a stiff-necked people! If I should come among you for one moment, I would consume and destroy you. Now therefore [penitently] leave off your ornaments, that I may know what to do with you." 
Exodus33:6 And the Israelites left off all their ornaments, from Mount Horeb onward." 
Exodus33:7 Now Moses used to take [his own] tent and pitch it outside the camp, far off from the camp, and he called it the tent of meeting [of God with His own people]. And everyone who sought the Lord went out to [that temporary] tent of meeting which was outside the camp." 
Exodus33:8 When Moses went out to the tent of meeting, all the people rose and stood, every man at his tent door, and looked after Moses until he had gone into the tent." 
Exodus33:9 When Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the door of the tent, and the Lord would talk with Moses." 
Exodus33:10 And all the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the tent door, and all the people rose up and worshiped, every man at his tent door." 
Exodus33:11 And the Lord spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Moses returned to the camp, but his minister Joshua son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the [temporary prayer] tent." 
Exodus33:11 And the Lord spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Moses returned to the camp, but his minister Joshua son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the [temporary prayer] tent." 
Exodus33:12 Moses said to the Lord, See, You say to me, Bring up this people, but You have not let me know whom You will send with me. Yet You said, I know you by name and you have also found favor in My sight." 
Exodus33:13 Now therefore, I pray You, if I have found favor in Your sight, show me now Your way, that I may know You [progressively become more deeply and intimately acquainted with You, perceiving and recognizing and understanding more strongly and clearly] and that I may find favor in Your sight. And [Lord, do] consider that this nation is Your people." 
Exodus33:14 And the Lord said, My Presence shall go with you, and I will give you rest." 
Exodus33:15 And Moses said to the Lord, If Your Presence does not go with me, do not carry us up from here!" 
Exodus33:16 For by what shall it be known that I and Your people have found favor in Your sight? Is it not in Your going with us so that we are distinguished, I and Your people, from all the other people upon the face of the earth?" 
Exodus33:17 And the Lord said to Moses, I will do this thing also that you have asked, for you have found favor, loving-kindness, and mercy in My sight and I know you personally and by name. [Rev. 2:17.]" 
Exodus33:18 And Moses said, I beseech You, show me Your glory." 
Exodus33:19 And God said, I will make all My goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim My name, THE LORD, before you; for I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy and loving-kindness on whom I will show mercy and loving-kindness. [Rom. 9:15, 16.]" 
Exodus33:20 But, He said, You can not see My face, for no man shall see Me and live." 
Exodus33:21 And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place beside Me, and you shall stand upon the rock," 
Exodus33:22 And while My glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock and cover you with My hand until I have passed by." 
Exodus33:23 Then I will take away My hand and you shall see My back; but My face shall not be seen. 
Exodus34:1 THE LORD said to Moses, Cut two tables of stone like the first, and I will write upon these tables the words that were on the first tables, which you broke." 
Exodus34:2 Be ready and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to Me on the top of the mountain." 
Exodus34:3 And no man shall come up with you, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mountain; neither let flocks or herds feed before that mountain." 
Exodus34:4 So Moses cut two tables of stone like the first, and he rose up early in the morning and went up on Mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, and took in his hand two tables of stone." 
Exodus34:5 And the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. 
Exodus34:6 And the Lord passed by before him, and proclaimed, The Lord! the Lord! a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving-kindness and truth," 
Exodus34:7 Keeping mercy and loving-kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but Who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children, to the third and fourth generation." 
Exodus34:8 And Moses made haste to bow his head toward the earth and worshiped. 
Exodus34:9 And he said, If now I have found favor and loving-kindness in Your sight, O Lord, let the Lord, I pray You, go in the midst of us, although it is a stiff-necked people, and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for Your inheritance." 
Exodus34:10 And the Lord said, Behold, I lay down [afresh the terms of the mutual agreement between Israel and Me] a covenant. Before all your people I will do marvels (wonders, miracles) such as have not been wrought or created in all the earth or in any nation; and all the people among whom you are shall see the work of the Lord; for it is a terrible thing [fearful and full of awe] that I will do with you." 
Exodus34:11 Observe what I command you this day. Behold, I drive out before you the Amorite, Canaanite, Hittite, Perizzite, Hivite, and Jebusite." 
Exodus34:12 Take heed to yourself, lest you make a covenant or mutual agreement with the inhabitants of the land to which you go, lest it become a snare in the midst of you." 
Exodus34:13 But you shall destroy their altars, dash in pieces their pillars (obelisks, images), and cut down their Asherim [symbols of the goddess Asherah];" 
Exodus34:14 For you shall worship no other god; for the Lord, Whose name is Jealous, is a jealous (impassioned) God," 
Exodus34:15 Lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and when they play the harlot after their gods and sacrifice to their gods and one invites you, you eat of his food sacrificed to idols," 
Exodus34:16 And you take of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters play the harlot after their gods and make your sons play the harlot after their gods." 
Exodus34:17 You shall make for yourselves no molten gods. 
Exodus34:18 The Feast of Unleavened Bread you shall keep. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, in the time of the month of Abib; for in the month of Abib you came out of Egypt." 
Exodus34:19 All the males that first open the womb among your livestock are Mine, whether ox or sheep." 
Exodus34:20 But the firstling of a donkey [an unclean beast] you shall redeem with a lamb or kid, and if you do not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. All the firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. And none of you shall appear before Me empty-handed." 
Exodus34:21 Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; even in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest [on the Sabbath]." 
Exodus34:22 You shall observe the Feast of Weeks, the firstfruits of the wheat harvest, and the Feast of Ingathering at the year's end." 
Exodus34:23 Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord God, the God of Israel." 
Exodus34:24 For I will cast out the nations before you and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire [and molest] your land when you go up to appear before the Lord your God three times in the year. 
Exodus34:25 You shall not offer the blood of My sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the Feast of the Passover be left until morning. 
Exodus34:26 The first of the firstfruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a kid in his mother's milk. 
Exodus34:27 And the Lord said to Moses, Write these words, for after the purpose and character of these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel." 
Exodus34:28 Moses was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights; he ate no bread and drank no water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments." 
Exodus34:29 When Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tables of the Testimony in his hand, he did not know that the skin of his face shone and sent forth beams by reason of his speaking with the Lord." 
Exodus34:30 When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they feared to come near him." 
Exodus34:31 But Moses called to them; and Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation returned to him, and [he] talked with them." 
Exodus34:32 Afterward all the Israelites came near, and he gave them in commandment all the Lord had said to him in Mount Sinai." 
Exodus34:33 And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face." 
Exodus34:34 But when Moses went in before the Lord to speak with Him, he took the veil off until he came out. And he came out and told the Israelites what he was commanded." 
Exodus34:35 The Israelites saw the face of Moses, how the skin of it shone; and Moses put the veil on his face again until he went in to speak with God." 
Exodus35:1 MOSES GATHERED all the congregation of the Israelites together and said to them, These are the things which the Lord has commanded that you do:" 
Exodus35:2 Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day shall be to you a holy day, a Sabbath of rest to the Lord; whoever works [on that day] shall be put to death." 
Exodus35:3 You shall kindle no fire in all your dwellings on the Sabbath day. 
Exodus35:4 And Moses said to all the congregation of the Israelites, This is what the Lord commanded:" 
Exodus35:5 Take from among you an offering to the Lord. Whoever is of a willing and generous heart, let him bring the Lord's offering: gold, silver, and bronze;" 
Exodus35:6 Blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], fine linen; goats' hair;" 
Exodus35:7 And rams' skins tanned red, and skins of dolphins or porpoises; and acacia wood;" 
Exodus35:8 And oil for the light; and spices for anointing oil and for fragrant incense; 
Exodus35:9 And onyx stones and other stones to be set for the ephod and the breastplate. 
Exodus35:10 And let every able and wisehearted man among you come and make all that the Lord has commanded: 
Exodus35:11 The tabernacle, its tent and its covering, its hooks, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets or bases;" 
Exodus35:12 The ark and its poles, with the mercy seat, and the veil of the screen;" 
Exodus35:13 The table and its poles and all its utensils, and the showbread (the bread of the Presence);" 
Exodus35:14 The lampstand also for the light, and its utensils and its lamps, and the oil for the light;" 
Exodus35:15 And the incense altar and its poles, the anointing oil and the fragrant incense, the hanging or screen for the door at the entrance of the tabernacle;" 
Exodus35:16 The altar of burnt offering, with its bronze grating, its poles and all its utensils, the laver and its base;" 
Exodus35:17 The court's hangings, its pillars and their sockets or bases, and the hanging or screen for the gate of the court;" 
Exodus35:18 The pegs of the tabernacle and of the court, and their cords," 
Exodus35:19 The finely wrought garments for ministering in the Holy Place, the holy garments for Aaron the [high] priest and for his sons to minister as priests." 
Exodus35:20 Then all the congregation of the Israelites left Moses' presence. 
Exodus35:21 And they came, each one whose heart stirred him up and whose spirit made him willing, and brought the Lord's offering to be used for the [new] Tent of Meeting, for all its service, and the holy garments." 
Exodus35:22 They came, both men and women, all who were willinghearted, and brought brooches, earrings or nose rings, signet rings, and armlets or necklaces, all jewels of gold, everyone bringing an offering of gold to the Lord." 
Exodus35:23 And everyone with whom was found blue or purple or scarlet [stuff], or fine linen, or goats' hair, or rams' skins made red [in tanning], or dolphin or porpoise skins brought them." 
Exodus35:24 Everyone who could make an offering of silver or bronze brought it as the Lord's offering, and every man with whom was found any acacia wood for any work of the service brought it." 
Exodus35:25 All the women who had ability and were wisehearted spun with their hands and brought what they had spun of blue and purple and scarlet [stuff] and fine linen; 
Exodus35:26 And all the women who had ability and whose hearts stirred them up in wisdom spun the goats' hair. 
Exodus35:27 The leaders brought onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate," 
Exodus35:28 And spice, and oil for the light and for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense." 
Exodus35:29 The Israelites brought a freewill offering to the Lord, all men and women whose hearts made them willing and moved them to bring anything for any of the work which the Lord had commanded by Moses to be done." 
Exodus35:30 And Moses said to the Israelites, See, the Lord called by name Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;" 
Exodus35:31 And He has filled him with the Spirit of God, with ability and wisdom, with intelligence and understanding, and with knowledge and all craftsmanship," 
Exodus35:32 To devise artistic designs, to work in gold, silver, and bronze," 
Exodus35:33 In cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, for work in every skilled craft." 
Exodus35:34 And God has put in Bezalel's heart that he may teach, both he and Aholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan." 
Exodus35:35 He has filled them with wisdom of heart and ability to do all manner of craftsmanship, of the engraver, of the skillful workman, of the embroiderer in blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of those who do or design any skilled work." 
Exodus36:1 BEZALEL AND Aholiab and every wisehearted man in whom the Lord has put wisdom and understanding to know how to do all the work for the service of the sanctuary shall work according to all that the Lord has commanded. 
Exodus36:2 And Moses called Bezalel and Aholiab and every able and wisehearted man in whose mind the Lord had put wisdom and ability, everyone whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work;" 
Exodus36:3 And they received from Moses all the freewill offerings which the Israelites had brought for doing the work of the sanctuary, to prepare it for service. And they continued to bring him freewill offerings every morning." 
Exodus36:4 And all the wise and able men who were doing the work on the sanctuary came, every man from the work he was doing," 
Exodus36:5 And they said to Moses, The people bring much more than enough for doing the work which the Lord commanded to do." 
Exodus36:6 So Moses commanded and it was proclaimed in all the camp, Let no man or woman do anything more for the sanctuary offering. So the people were restrained from bringing," 
Exodus36:7 For the stuff they had was sufficient to do all the work and more. 
Exodus36:8 And all the able and wisehearted men among them who did the work on the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen and blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], with cherubim skillfully worked on them." 
Exodus36:9 The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits and its breadth four cubits; all the curtains were one size. 
Exodus36:10 [Bezalel] coupled five curtains one to another and the other five curtains he coupled one to another. 
Exodus36:11 And he made loops of blue on the outer edge of the last curtain in the first set; this he did also on the inner edge of the first curtain in the second set. 
Exodus36:12 Fifty loops he made in the one curtain and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which was the second set; the loops were opposite one another. 
Exodus36:13 And he made fifty clasps of gold and coupled the curtains together with the clasps so that the tabernacle became one unit. 
Exodus36:14 And he made eleven curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:15 The length of one curtain was thirty cubits and four cubits was the breadth; the eleven curtains were of equal size. 
Exodus36:16 And he coupled five curtains by themselves and the other six curtains by themselves. 
Exodus36:17 And he made fifty loops on the outmost edge of the curtain to be coupled and fifty loops he made on the inner edge of the second curtain to be coupled. 
Exodus36:18 He made fifty clasps of bronze to couple the tent together into one whole. 
Exodus36:19 He made a covering for the tent of rams' skins tanned red, and above it a covering of dolphin or porpoise skins." 
Exodus36:20 He made boards of acacia wood for the upright framework of the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:21 The length of a board was ten cubits and the breadth one cubit and a half. 
Exodus36:22 Each board had two tenons (projections) to fit into a mortise to form a clutch; he did this for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
Exodus36:23 And he made thus the boards [for frames] for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side," 
Exodus36:24 And he made under the twenty boards forty sockets or bases of silver, two sockets under one board for its two tenons or hands, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons." 
Exodus36:25 For the other side of the tabernacle, the north side, he made twenty boards" 
Exodus36:26 And their forty sockets or bases of silver, two sockets under [the end of] each board." 
Exodus36:27 And for the rear or west side of the tabernacle he made six [frame] boards. 
Exodus36:28 And two boards he made for each corner of the tabernacle in the rear. 
Exodus36:29 They were separate below but linked together at the top with one ring; thus he made both of them in both corners. 
Exodus36:30 There were eight boards with sixteen sockets or bases of silver, and under [the end of] each board two sockets." 
Exodus36:31 He made bars of acacia wood, five for the [frame] boards of the one side of the tabernacle," 
Exodus36:32 And five bars for the boards of its other side, and five bars for the boards at the rear or west side." 
Exodus36:33 And he made the middle bar pass through halfway up the boards from one end to the other. 
Exodus36:34 He overlaid the boards and the bars with gold and made their rings of gold as places for the bars. 
Exodus36:35 And he made the veil of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and fine twined linen, with cherubim skillfully worked. [Matt. 27:50, 51; Heb. 10:19-22.]" 
Exodus36:36 For [the veil] he made four pillars of acacia [wood] and overlaid them with gold; their hooks were of gold, and he cast for them four sockets or bases of silver." 
Exodus36:37 And he made a screen for the tent door of blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and fine twined linen, embroidered," 
Exodus36:38 And he made the five pillars of it with their hooks, and overlaid their ornamental tops and joinings with gold, but their five sockets were of bronze." 
Exodus37:1 BEZALEL MADE the ark of acacia wood,two cubits and a half was the length of it, a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it." 
Exodus37:2 He overlaid it with pure gold within and without and made a molding or crown of gold to go around the top of it. 
Exodus37:3 He cast four rings of gold for its four corners, two rings on either side." 
Exodus37:4 He made poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold. 
Exodus37:5 He put the poles through the rings at the sides of the ark to carry it. 
Exodus37:6 [Bezalel] made the mercy seat of pure gold, two cubits and a half its length and one cubit and a half its breadth." 
Exodus37:7 And he made two cherubim of beaten gold; on the two ends of the mercy seat he made them," 
Exodus37:8 One cherub at one end and one at the other end; of one piece with the mercy seat he made the cherubim at its two ends. 
Exodus37:9 And the cherubim spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces to each other, looking down to the mercy seat. [Heb. 9:23-26.]" 
Exodus37:10 Bezalel made the [showbread] table of acacia wood; it was two cubits long, a cubit wide, and a cubit and a half high." 
Exodus37:11 He overlaid it with pure gold and made a molding of gold around its top. 
Exodus37:12 And he made a border around it [just under the top] a handbreadth wide, and a molding of gold around the border." 
Exodus37:13 And he cast for it four rings of gold and fastened the rings on the four corners that were at its four legs. 
Exodus37:14 Close to the border were the rings, the places for the poles to pass through to carry the [showbread] table." 
Exodus37:15 [Bezalel] made the poles of acacia wood to carry the [showbread] table and overlaid them with gold. 
Exodus37:16 He made of pure gold the vessels which were to be on the table, its plates and dishes [for bread], its bowls and flagons for pouring [liquid sacrifices]." 
Exodus37:17 And he made the lampstand of pure gold; its base and shaft were made of hammered work; its cups, its knobs, and its flowers were of one piece with it." 
Exodus37:18 There were six branches going out of the sides of the lampstand, three branches out of one side of it and three branches out of the other side of it;" 
Exodus37:19 Three cups made like almond blossoms in one branch, each with a [calyx] knob and a flower, and three cups made like almond blossoms in the [opposite] branch, each with a [calyx] knob and a flower; and so for the six branches going out of the lampstand." 
Exodus37:20 On [the shaft of] the lampstand were four cups made like almond blossoms, with knobs and flowers [one at the top]." 
Exodus37:21 And a knob under each pair of branches, of one piece with the lampstand, for the six branches going out of it." 
Exodus37:22 Their knobs and their branches were of one piece with it, all of it hammered work of pure gold." 
Exodus37:23 And he made of pure gold its seven lamps, its snuffers, and its ashtrays." 
Exodus37:24 Of a talent of pure gold he made the lampstand and all its utensils. [John 1:4, 5, 9; II Cor. 4:6.]" 
Exodus37:25 And [Bezalel] made the incense altar of acacia wood; its top was a cubit square and it was two cubits high; the horns were one piece with it. 
Exodus37:26 He overlaid it with pure gold, its top, its sides round about, and its horns; also he made a rim around it of gold." 
Exodus37:27 And he made two rings of gold for it under its rim, on its two opposite sides, as places for the poles [to pass through] to carry it." 
Exodus37:28 And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold. 
Exodus37:29 He also made the holy anointing oil [symbol of the Holy Spirit] and the pure, fragrant incense, after the perfumer's art." 
Exodus38:1 BEZALEL MADE the burnt offering altar of acacia wood; its top was five cubits square and it was three cubits high. 
Exodus38:2 He made its horns on the four corners of it; the horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze." 
Exodus38:3 He made all the utensils and vessels of the altar, the pots, shovels, basins, forks or fleshhooks, and firepans; all its utensils and vessels he made of bronze." 
Exodus38:4 And he made for the altar a bronze grate of network under its ledge, extending halfway down it." 
Exodus38:5 He cast four rings for the four corners of the bronze grating to be places for the poles [with which to carry it]. 
Exodus38:6 And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze. 
Exodus38:7 And he put the poles through the rings on the altar's sides with which to carry it; he made it hollow with planks. 
Exodus38:8 He made the laver and its base of bronze from the mirrors of the women who ministered at the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus38:9 And he made the court: for the south side the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, a hundred cubits;" 
Exodus38:10 Their pillars and their bronze sockets or bases were twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their joinings were silver. 
Exodus38:11 And for the north side the hangings were [also] a hundred cubits; their pillars and their sockets or bases of bronze were twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their joinings were of silver. 
Exodus38:12 But for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars and their sockets or bases were ten; the hooks of the pillars and their joinings were of silver. 
Exodus38:13 And for the front, the east side, fifty cubits." 
Exodus38:14 The hangings for one side of the gate were fifteen cubits; their pillars three and their sockets or bases three. 
Exodus38:15 Also for the other side of the court gate, left and right, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three and their sockets or bases three." 
Exodus38:16 All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen. 
Exodus38:17 The sockets for the pillars were of bronze, the hooks of the pillars and their joinings of silver, the overlaying of their tops of silver, and all the pillars of the court were joined with silver." 
Exodus38:18 The hanging or screen for the gate of the court was embroidered in blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine twined linen; the length was twenty cubits and the height in the breadth was five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court." 
Exodus38:19 Their pillars were four and their sockets of bronze four; their hooks were of silver, and the overlaying of their tops and their joinings were of silver." 
Exodus38:20 All the pegs for the tabernacle and around the court were of bronze. 
Exodus38:21 This is the sum of the things for the tabernacle of the Testimony, as counted at the command of Moses, for the work of the Levites under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron, the [high] priest." 
Exodus38:22 Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the Lord commanded Moses." 
Exodus38:23 With him was Aholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, a skillful craftsman, and embroiderer in blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and in fine linen." 
Exodus38:24 All the gold that was used for the work in all the building and furnishing of the sanctuary, the gold from the offering, was 29 talents and 730 shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary." 
Exodus38:25 And the silver from those numbered of the congregation was 100 talents and 1,775 shekels, by sanctuary standards:" 
Exodus38:26 A beka for each man, that is, half a shekel, by the sanctuary shekel, for everyone who was counted, from twenty years old and upward, for 603,550 men." 
Exodus38:27 The 100 talents of silver were for casting the sockets or bases of the sanctuary and of the veil; 100 sockets for the 100 talents, a talent for a socket." 
Exodus38:28 Of the 1,775 shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their tops, and made joinings for them." 
Exodus38:29 The bronze of the offering was 70 talents and 2,400 shekels." 
Exodus38:30 With it Bezalel made the sockets for the door of the Tent of Meeting, and the bronze altar and the bronze grate for it, and all the utensils of the altar," 
Exodus38:31 The sockets of the court round about and of the court gate, and all the pegs of the tabernacle and around the court." 
Exodus39:1 AND OF the blue and purple and scarlet [stuff] they made finely wrought garments for serving in the Holy Place; they made the holy garments for Aaron, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:2 And Bezalel made the ephod of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine twined linen." 
Exodus39:3 And they beat the gold into thin sheets and cut it into wires to work into the blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff] and the fine linen, in skilled design." 
Exodus39:4 They made shoulder pieces for the ephod, joined to it at its two edges." 
Exodus39:5 And the skillfully woven band on it, to gird it on, was of the same piece and workmanship with it, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine twined linen, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:6 And they prepared the onyx stones enclosed in settings of gold filigree and engraved as signets are engraved with the names of the sons of Israel. 
Exodus39:7 And he put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod to be stones of memorial or remembrance for the Israelites, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:8 And [Bezalel] made the breastplate skillfully, like the work of the ephod, of gold, blue, purple, and scarlet [stuff], and fine twined linen." 
Exodus39:9 The breastplate was a [hand's] span square when doubled over. 
Exodus39:10 And they set in it four rows of stones; a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle made the first row;" 
Exodus39:11 The second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond;" 
Exodus39:12 The third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;" 
Exodus39:13 And the fourth row a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper; they were enclosed in settings of gold filigree." 
Exodus39:14 There were twelve stones with their names according to those of the sons of Israel, engraved like a signet, each with its name, according to the twelve tribes." 
Exodus39:15 And they made [at the ends] of the breastplate twisted chains like cords, of pure gold." 
Exodus39:16 And they made two settings of gold filigree and two gold rings which they put on the two ends of the breastplate. 
Exodus39:17 And they put the two twisted cords or woven chains of gold in the two rings on the end edges of the breastplate. 
Exodus39:18 And the other two ends of the twisted cords or chains of gold they put on the two settings and put them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, in front." 
Exodus39:19 They made two rings of gold and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, on the inside edge of it next to the ephod." 
Exodus39:20 And they made two [other] gold rings and attached them to the two shoulder pieces of the ephod underneath, in front, at its joining above the skillfully woven band of the ephod." 
Exodus39:21 They bound the breastplate by its rings to those of the ephod with a blue lace, that it might lie upon the skillfully woven band of the ephod and that the breastplate might not be loosed from the ephod, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:22 And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work all of blue. 
Exodus39:23 And there was an opening [for the head] in the middle of the robe like the hole in a coat of mail, with a binding around it, that it should not be torn." 
Exodus39:24 On the skirts of the robe they made pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet [stuff] and twined linen. 
Exodus39:25 And they made bells of pure gold and put [them] between the pomegranates around the skirts of the robe; 
Exodus39:26 A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, round about on the skirts of the robe for ministering, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:27 And they made the long and sleeved tunics woven of fine linen for Aaron and his sons," 
Exodus39:28 And the turban, and the ornamental caps of fine linen, and the breeches of fine twined linen," 
Exodus39:29 The girdle or sash of fine twined linen, and blue, purple, and scarlet embroidery, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:30 And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold and wrote upon it an inscription, like the engravings of a signet, HOLY TO THE LORD. [Exod. 28:36.]" 
Exodus39:31 They tied to it a lace of blue to fasten it on the turban above, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:32 Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting was finished; according to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so the Israelites had done." 
Exodus39:33 And they brought the tabernacle to Moses: the tent and all its furnishings, its clasps, its [frame] boards, its bars, its pillars, its sockets or bases;" 
Exodus39:34 And the covering of rams' skins made red, and the covering of dolphin or porpoise skins, and the veil of the screen;" 
Exodus39:35 The ark of the Testimony, its poles, and the mercy seat;" 
Exodus39:36 The table and all its utensils, and the showbread (bread of the Presence);" 
Exodus39:37 The pure [gold] lampstand and its lamps, with the lamps set in order, all its utensils, and the oil for the light;" 
Exodus39:38 The golden altar, the anointing oil, the fragrant incense, and the hanging for the door of the tent;" 
Exodus39:39 The bronze altar and its grate of bronze, its poles and all its utensils; the laver and its base;" 
Exodus39:40 The hangings of the court, its pillars and sockets or bases, and the screen for the court gate, its cords, and pegs, and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle, for the Tent of Meeting [of God with His people]; [Exod. 29:42, 43.]" 
Exodus39:41 The finely worked vestments for ministering in the Holy Place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons to minister as priests." 
Exodus39:42 According to all that the Lord had commanded Moses, so the Israelites had done all the work." 
Exodus39:43 And Moses inspected all the work, and behold, they had done it; as the Lord had commanded, so had they done it. And Moses blessed them." 
Exodus40:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus40:2 On the first day of the first month you shall set up the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting [of God with you]. 
Exodus40:3 And you shall put in it the ark of the Testimony and screen the ark [of God's Presence] with the veil. [Heb. 10:19-23.] 
Exodus40:4 You shall bring in the [showbread] table and set in order the things that are to be upon it; and you shall bring in the lampstand and set up and light its lamps. [Rev. 21:23-25.] 
Exodus40:5 You shall set the golden altar for the incense before the ark of the Testimony [outside the veil] and put the hanging or screen at the tabernacle door. 
Exodus40:6 You shall set the altar of the burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus40:7 And you shall set the laver between the Tent of Meeting and the altar and put water in it. 
Exodus40:8 And you shall set up the court [curtains] round about and hang up the hanging or screen at the court gate. 
Exodus40:9 You shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and shall consecrate it and all its furniture, and it shall be holy." 
Exodus40:10 You shall anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils; and consecrate (set apart for God) the altar, and the altar shall be most holy." 
Exodus40:11 And you shall anoint the laver and its base and consecrate it. 
Exodus40:12 You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the Tent of Meeting and wash them with water. [John 17:17-19.] 
Exodus40:13 You shall put on Aaron the holy garments, and anoint and consecrate him, so he may serve Me as priest." 
Exodus40:14 And you shall bring his sons and put long and sleeved tunics on them," 
Exodus40:15 And you shall anoint them as you anointed their father, that they may minister to Me as priests; for their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations." 
Exodus40:16 Thus did Moses; according to all that the Lord commanded him, so he did." 
Exodus40:17 And on the first day of the first month in the second year the tabernacle was erected. 
Exodus40:18 Moses set up the tabernacle, laid its sockets, set up its boards, put in its bars, and erected its pillars." 
Exodus40:19 [Moses] spread the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent over it, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:20 He took the Testimony [the Ten Commandments] and put it into the ark, and set the poles [in the rings] on the ark, and put the mercy seat on top of the ark." 
Exodus40:21 [Moses] brought the ark into the tabernacle and set up the veil of the screen and screened the ark of the Testimony, as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:22 Moses put the table [of showbread] in the Tent of Meeting on the north side of the tabernacle outside the veil; 
Exodus40:23 He set the bread [of the Presence] in order on it before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded him. [John 6:32-35.]" 
Exodus40:24 And he put the lampstand in the Tent of Meeting opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle. 
Exodus40:25 Moses set up and lighted the lamps before the Lord, as the Lord commanded him." 
Exodus40:26 He put the golden altar [of incense] in the Tent of Meeting before the veil; 
Exodus40:27 He burned sweet incense [symbol of prayer] upon it, as the Lord commanded him. [Ps. 141:2; Rev. 8:3.]" 
Exodus40:28 And he set up the hanging or screen at the door of the tabernacle. 
Exodus40:29 [Moses] put the altar of burnt offering at the door of the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting and offered on it the burnt offering and the cereal offering, as the Lord commanded him." 
Exodus40:30 And Moses set the laver between the Tent of Meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing. 
Exodus40:31 And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet there. 
Exodus40:32 When they went into the Tent of Meeting or came near the altar, they washed, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Exodus40:33 And he erected the court round about the tabernacle and the altar and set up the hanging or screen at the court gate. So Moses finished the work. 
Exodus40:34 Then the cloud [the Shekinah, God's visible presence] covered the Tent of Meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle! [Rev. 15:8.]" 
Exodus40:35 And Moses was not able to enter the Tent of Meeting because the cloud remained upon it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle." 
Exodus40:36 In all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the Israelites went onward;" 
Exodus40:37 But if the cloud was not taken up, they did not journey on till the day that it was taken up." 
Exodus40:38 For throughout all their journeys the cloud of the Lord was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel." 
Leviticus1:1 THE LORD called to Moses out of the Tent of Meeting, and said to him," 
Leviticus1:2 Say to the Israelites, When any man of you brings an offering to the Lord, you shall bring your offering of [domestic] animals from the herd or from the flock." 
Leviticus1:3 If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish; he shall offer it at the door of the Tent of Meeting, that he may be accepted before the Lord. [Rom. 12:1; Phil. 1:20.]" 
Leviticus1:4 And he shall lay [both] his hands upon the head of the burnt offering [transferring symbolically his guilt to the victim], and it shall be an acceptable atonement for him. [Heb. 13:15, 16; I Pet. 1:2.]" 
Leviticus1:5 The man shall kill the young bull before the Lord, and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall present the blood and dash [it] round about upon the altar that is at the door of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus1:6 And he shall skin the burnt offering and cut it into pieces. 
Leviticus1:7 And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and lay wood in order on the fire; 
Leviticus1:8 And Aaron's sons the priests shall lay the pieces, the head and the fat, in order on the wood on the fire on the altar." 
Leviticus1:9 But its entrails and its legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall burn all of it on the altar for a burnt offering, an offering by fire, a sweet and satisfying odor to the Lord. [Eph. 5:2; Phil. 4:18; I Pet. 2:5.]" 
Leviticus1:10 And if the man's offering is of the flock, from the sheep or the goats, for a burnt offering, he shall offer a male without blemish." 
Leviticus1:11 And he shall kill it on the north side of the altar before the Lord, and Aaron's sons the priests shall dash its blood round about against the altar." 
Leviticus1:12 And [the man] shall cut it into pieces, with its head and its fat, and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire on the altar." 
Leviticus1:13 But he shall wash the entrails and legs with water. The priest shall offer all of it and burn it on the altar; it is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord." 
Leviticus1:14 And if the offering to the Lord is a burnt offering of birds, then [the man] shall bring turtledoves or young pigeons." 
Leviticus1:15 And the priest shall bring it to the altar, and wring off its head, and burn it on the altar; and its blood shall be drained out on the side of the altar." 
Leviticus1:16 And he shall take away its crop with its feathers and cast it beside the altar on the east side, in the place for ashes." 
Leviticus1:17 And he shall split it open [holding it] by its wings, but shall not cut it in two. And the priest shall burn it on the altar, on the wood that is on the fire; it is a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, a sweet and satisfying odor to the Lord." 
Leviticus2:1 WHEN ANYONE offers a cereal offering to the Lord, it shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil over it and lay frankincense on it." 
Leviticus2:2 And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests. Out of it he shall take a handful of the fine flour and oil, with all its frankincense, and the priest shall burn this on the altar as the memorial portion of it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord." 
Leviticus2:3 What is left of the cereal offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'; it is a most holy part of the offerings made to the Lord by fire. 
Leviticus2:4 When you bring as an offering cereal baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers spread with oil." 
Leviticus2:5 If your offering is cereal baked on a griddle, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil." 
Leviticus2:6 You shall break it in pieces and pour oil on it; it is a cereal offering. 
Leviticus2:7 And if your offering is cereal cooked in the frying pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil." 
Leviticus2:8 And you shall bring the cereal offering that is made of these things to the Lord; it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the [bronze] altar." 
Leviticus2:9 The priest shall take from the cereal offering its memorial portion and burn it on the altar, an offering made by fire, a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord." 
Leviticus2:10 What is left of the cereal offering shall be Aaron's and his sons'; it is a most holy part of the offerings made to the Lord by fire. 
Leviticus2:11 No cereal offering that you bring to the Lord shall be made with leaven, for you shall burn no leaven or honey in any offering made by fire to the Lord. [I Cor. 5:8.]" 
Leviticus2:12 As an offering of firstfruits you may offer leaven and honey to the Lord, but they shall not be burned on the altar for a sweet odor [to the Lord, for their aid to fermentation is symbolic of corruption in the human heart]." 
Leviticus2:13 Every cereal offering you shall season with salt [symbol of preservation]; neither shall you allow the salt of the covenant of your God to be lacking from your cereal offering; with all your offerings you shall offer salt. [Mark 9:49, 50.]" 
Leviticus2:14 If you offer a cereal offering of your firstfruits to the Lord, you shall offer for it of your firstfruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised and crushed grain out of the fresh and fruitful ear." 
Leviticus2:15 And you shall put oil on it and lay frankincense on it; it is a cereal offering. 
Leviticus2:16 The priest shall burn as its memorial portion part of the bruised and crushed grain of it and part of the oil of it, with all its frankincense; it is an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus3:1 IF A man's offering is a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offers an animal from the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the Lord." 
Leviticus3:2 He shall lay [both] his hands upon the head of his offering and kill it at the door of the Tent of Meeting; and Aaron's sons the priests shall throw the blood against the altar round about. 
Leviticus3:3 And from the sacrifice of the peace offering, an offering made by fire to the Lord, he shall offer the fat that covers and is upon the entrails," 
Leviticus3:4 And the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys." 
Leviticus3:5 Aaron's sons shall burn it all on the altar upon the burnt offering which is on the wood on the fire, an offering made by fire, of a sweet and satisfying odor to the Lord." 
Leviticus3:6 If his peace offering to the Lord is an animal from the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish." 
Leviticus3:7 If he offers a lamb, then he shall offer it before the Lord." 
Leviticus3:8 He shall lay [both] his hands on the head of his offering and kill it before the Tent of Meeting; and Aaron's sons shall throw its blood around against the altar. 
Leviticus3:9 And he shall offer from the peace offering as an offering made by fire to the Lord: the fat of it, the fat tail as a whole, taking it off close to the backbone, and the fat that covers and is upon the entrails," 
Leviticus3:10 And the two kidneys, and the fat on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver, which he shall take away with the kidneys." 
Leviticus3:11 The priest shall burn it upon the altar, a food offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus3:12 If [a man's] offering is a goat, he shall offer it before the Lord," 
Leviticus3:13 And lay his hands upon its head, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall throw its blood against the altar round about." 
Leviticus3:14 Then he shall offer from it as his offering made by fire to the Lord: the fat that covers and is on the entrails," 
Leviticus3:15 And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys." 
Leviticus3:16 The priest shall burn them on the altar as food, offered by fire, for a sweet and satisfying fragrance. All the fat is the Lord's." 
Leviticus3:17 It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations in all your dwelling places, that you eat neither fat nor blood." 
Leviticus4:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus4:2 Say to the Israelites, If anyone shall sin through error or unwittingly in any of the things which the Lord has commanded not to be done, and shall do any one of them," 
Leviticus4:3 If it is the anointed priest who sins, thus bringing guilt on the people, then let him offer for his sin which he has committed a young bull without blemish to the Lord as a sin offering. [Heb. 7:27, 28.]" 
Leviticus4:4 He shall bring the bull to the door of the Tent of Meeting before the Lord, and shall lay [both] his hands on the bull's head and kill [it] before the Lord." 
Leviticus4:5 And the anointed priest shall take some of the bull's blood and bring it into the Tent of Meeting; 
Leviticus4:6 And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle some of [it] seven times before the Lord before the veil of the sanctuary. 
Leviticus4:7 And the priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the Lord which is in the Tent of Meeting; and all the rest of the blood of the bull shall he pour out at the base of the altar of the burnt offering at the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus4:8 And all the fat of the bull for the sin offering he shall take off of it,the fat that covers and is on the entrails," 
Leviticus4:9 And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver, which he shall take away with the kidneys," 
Leviticus4:10 Just as these are taken off of the bull of the sacrifice of the peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:11 But the hide of the bull and all its flesh, its head, its legs, its entrails, and its dung," 
Leviticus4:12 Even the whole bull shall he carry forth without the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on a fire of wood, there where the ashes are poured out. [Heb. 13:11-13.]" 
Leviticus4:13 If the whole congregation of Israel sins unintentionally, and it be hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done what the Lord has commanded not to be done and are guilty," 
Leviticus4:14 When the sin which they have committed becomes known, then the congregation shall offer a young bull for a sin offering and bring it before the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus4:15 The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bull before the Lord, and the bull shall be killed before the Lord." 
Leviticus4:16 The anointed priest shall bring some of the bull's blood to the Tent of Meeting," 
Leviticus4:17 And shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before the Lord, before the veil [which screens the ark of the covenant]." 
Leviticus4:18 He shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar [of incense] which is before the Lord in the Tent of Meeting, and he shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering near the door of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus4:19 And he shall take all its fat from the bull and burn it on the altar. 
Leviticus4:20 Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull for a sin offering, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall make atonement for [the people], and they shall be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:21 And he shall carry forth the bull outside the camp and burn it as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the congregation. 
Leviticus4:22 When a ruler or leader sins and unwittingly does any one of the things the Lord his God has forbidden, and is guilty," 
Leviticus4:23 If his sin which he has committed be known to him, he shall bring as his offering a goat, a male without blemish." 
Leviticus4:24 He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the Lord; it is a sin offering. 
Leviticus4:25 The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour the rest of its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:26 And he shall burn all its fat upon the altar like the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings; so the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin, and it shall be forgiven him." 
Leviticus4:27 If any one of the common people sins unwittingly in doing anything the Lord has commanded not to be done, and is guilty," 
Leviticus4:28 When the sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has committed." 
Leviticus4:29 The offender shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill [it] at the place of the burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:30 And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and shall pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar. 
Leviticus4:31 And all the fat of it he shall take away, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord; and the priest shall make atonement for [the man], and he shall be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:32 If he brings a lamb as his sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish." 
Leviticus4:33 He shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering. 
Leviticus4:34 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and all the rest of the blood of the lamb he shall pour out at the base of the altar. 
Leviticus4:35 And he shall take away all the fat of it, just as the fat of the lamb is removed from the sacrifice of the peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar upon the offerings made by fire to the Lord; and the priest shall make atonement for the sin which the man has committed, and he shall be forgiven. [Heb. 9:13, 14.]" 
Leviticus5:1 IF ANYONE sins in that he is sworn to testify and has knowledge of the matter, either by seeing or hearing of it, but fails to report it, then he shall bear his iniquity and willfulness." 
Leviticus5:2 Or if anyone touches an unclean thing, whether the carcass of an unclean wild beast or of an unclean domestic animal or of unclean creeping things that multiply prolifically, even if he is unaware of it, and he has become unclean, he is guilty." 
Leviticus5:3 Or if he touches human uncleanness, of whatever kind the uncleanness may be with which he becomes defiled, and he is unaware of it, when he does know it, then he shall be guilty." 
Leviticus5:4 Or if anyone unthinkingly swears he will do something, whether to do evil or good, whatever it may be that a man shall pronounce rashly taking an oath, then, when he becomes aware of it, he shall be guilty in either of these. [Mark 6:23.]" 
Leviticus5:5 When a man is guilty in one of these, he shall confess the sin he has committed." 
Leviticus5:6 He shall bring his guilt or trespass offering to the Lord for the sin which he has committed, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a sin offering; and the priest shall make atonement for his sin." 
Leviticus5:7 But if he cannot afford a lamb, then he shall bring for his guilt offering to the Lord two turtledoves or two young pigeons, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering." 
Leviticus5:8 He shall bring them to the priest, who shall offer the one for the sin offering first, and wring its head from its neck, but shall not sever it;" 
Leviticus5:9 And he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar; it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:10 And he shall prepare the second bird for a burnt offering, according to the ordinance; and the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin which he has committed, and he shall be forgiven." 
Leviticus5:11 But if the offender cannot afford to bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then he shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil or frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:12 He shall bring it to the priest, who shall take a handful of it as a memorial portion and burn it on the altar, on the offerings made by fire to the Lord; it is a sin offering." 
Leviticus5:13 Thus the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin that he has committed in any of these things, and he shall be forgiven; and the remainder shall be for the priest, as in the cereal offering." 
Leviticus5:14 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus5:15 If anyone commits a breach of faith and sins unwittingly in the holy things of the Lord, he shall bring his trespass or guilt offering to the Lord, a ram without blemish out of the flock, valued by you in shekels of silver, that is, the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass or guilt offering." 
Leviticus5:16 And he shall make restitution for what he has done amiss in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to the priest; and the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass or guilt offering, and he shall be forgiven." 
Leviticus5:17 If anyone sins and does any of the things the Lord has forbidden, though he was not aware of it, yet he is guilty and shall bear his iniquity. [Luke 12:48.]" 
Leviticus5:18 He shall bring [to the priest] a ram without blemish out of the flock, estimated by you to the amount [of the trespass], for a guilt or trespass offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him for the error which he committed unknowingly, and he shall be forgiven." 
Leviticus5:19 It is a trespass or guilt offering; he is certainly guilty before the Lord. 
Leviticus6:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:2 If anyone sins and commits a trespass against the Lord and deals falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit given him to keep, or of bargain or pledge, or of robbery, or has oppressed his neighbor," 
Leviticus6:3 Or has found what was lost and lied about it, or swears falsely, in any of all the things which men do and sin in so doing," 
Leviticus6:4 Then if he has sinned and is guilty, he shall restore what he took by robbery, or what he secured by oppression or extortion, or what was delivered him to keep in trust, or the lost thing which he found," 
Leviticus6:5 Or anything about which he has sworn falsely; he shall not only restore it in full, but shall add to it one fifth more and give it to him to whom it belongs on the day of his trespass or guilt offering." 
Leviticus6:6 And he shall bring to the priest his trespass or guilt offering to the Lord, a ram without blemish out of the flock, valued by you to the amount of his trespass;" 
Leviticus6:7 And the priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, and he shall be forgiven for anything of all that he may have done by which he has become guilty." 
Leviticus6:8 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:9 Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: The burnt offering shall remain on the altar all night until morning; the fire shall be kept burning on the altar." 
Leviticus6:10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment and put his linen breeches on his body, and take up the ashes of what the fire has consumed with the burnt offering on the altar and put them beside the altar." 
Leviticus6:11 And he shall put off his garments and put on other garments, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place." 
Leviticus6:12 And the fire upon the altar shall be kept burning on it; it shall not be allowed to go out. The priest shall burn wood on it every morning and lay the burnt offering in order upon it and he shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings. 
Leviticus6:13 The fire shall be burning continually upon the altar; it shall not go out. 
Leviticus6:14 And this is the law of the cereal offering: The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the Lord, in front of the altar." 
Leviticus6:15 One of them shall take his handful of the fine flour of the cereal offering, the oil of it, and all the frankincense which is upon the cereal offering, and burn it on the altar as the memorial of it, a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord." 
Leviticus6:16 And the remainder of it shall Aaron and his sons eat, without leaven in a holy place; in the court of the Tent of Meeting shall they eat it. [I Cor. 9:13, 14.]" 
Leviticus6:17 It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of My offerings made by fire; it is most holy, like the sin offering and the guilt offering." 
Leviticus6:18 Every male among the children of Aaron may eat of it, as his portion forever throughout your generations, from the Lord's offerings made by fire; whoever touches them shall [first] be holy (consecrated and ceremonially clean)." 
Leviticus6:19 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:20 This is the offering which Aaron and his sons shall offer to the Lord on the day when one is anointed (and consecrated): the tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a regular cereal offering, half of it in the morning and half of it at night." 
Leviticus6:21 On a griddle or baking pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is fried you shall bring it in; in broken and fried pieces shall you offer the cereal offering as a sweet and satisfying odor to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:22 And the priest among Aaron's sons who is consecrated and anointed in his stead shall offer it; by a statute forever it shall be entirely burned to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:23 For every cereal offering of the priest shall be wholly burned, and not be eaten." 
Leviticus6:24 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus6:25 Say to Aaron and his sons: This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed before the Lord; it is most holy. 
Leviticus6:26 The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it; in a sacred place shall it be eaten, in the court of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus6:27 Whoever or whatever touches its flesh shall [first] be dedicated and made clean, and when any of its blood is sprinkled on a garment, you shall wash that garment in a place set apart to God's worship." 
Leviticus6:28 But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken, and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, that vessel shall be scoured and rinsed in water." 
Leviticus6:29 Every male among the priests may eat of this offering; it is most holy. 
Leviticus6:30 But no sin offering shall be eaten of which any of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place; it shall be [wholly] burned with fire. [Heb. 13:11-13.] 
Leviticus7:1 THIS IS the law of the guilt or trespass offering; it is most holy or sacred: 
Leviticus7:2 In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill the guilt or trespass offering; the blood of it shall the priest dash against the altar round about. 
Leviticus7:3 And he shall offer all its fat, the fat tail and the fat that covers the entrails," 
Leviticus7:4 And the two kidneys and the fat that is on them at the loins, and the lobe or appendage of the liver, which he shall take away with the kidneys." 
Leviticus7:5 And the priest shall burn them on the altar for an offering made by fire to the Lord; it is a guilt or trespass offering. 
Leviticus7:6 Every male among the priests may eat of it; it shall be eaten in a sacred place; it is most holy. 
Leviticus7:7 As is the sin offering, so is the guilt or trespass offering; there is one law for them: the priest who makes atonement with it shall have it." 
Leviticus7:8 And the priest who offers any man's burnt offering, that priest shall have for himself the hide of the burnt offering which he has offered." 
Leviticus7:9 And every cereal offering that is baked in the oven and all that is prepared in a pan or on a griddle shall belong to the priest who offered it. 
Leviticus7:10 And every cereal offering, mixed with oil or dry, all the sons of Aaron may have, one as well as another." 
Leviticus7:11 And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings which shall be offered to the Lord: 
Leviticus7:12 If one offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the thank offering unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil, and cakes of fine flour mixed with oil." 
Leviticus7:13 With cakes of leavened bread he shall offer his sacrifice of thanksgiving with the sacrifice of his peace offerings. 
Leviticus7:14 And of it he shall offer one cake from each offering as an offering to the Lord; it shall belong to the priest who dashes the blood of the peace offerings. 
Leviticus7:15 The flesh of the sacrifice of thanksgiving presented as a peace offering shall be eaten on the day that it is offered; none of it shall be left until morning. 
Leviticus7:16 But if the sacrifice of the worshiper's offering is a vow or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten the same day that he offers his sacrifice, and on the morrow that which remains of it shall be eaten;" 
Leviticus7:17 But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be [wholly] burned with fire. 
Leviticus7:18 If any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings be eaten at all on the third day, then the one who brought it shall not be credited with it; it shall not be accepted. It shall be an abomination and an abhorred thing; the one who eats of it shall bear his iniquity and answer for it." 
Leviticus7:19 The flesh that comes in contact with anything that is not clean shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire. As for the meat, everyone who is clean [ceremonially] may eat of it." 
Leviticus7:20 But the one who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings that belong to the Lord when he is [ceremonially] unclean, that person shall be cut off from his people [deprived of the privileges of association with them]." 
Leviticus7:21 And if anyone touches any unclean thing,the uncleanness of man or an unclean beast or any unclean abomination,and then eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of the Lord's peace offerings, that person shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus7:22 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus7:23 Say to the Israelites, You shall eat no kind of fat, of ox, or sheep, or goat." 
Leviticus7:24 The fat of the beast that dies of itself and the fat of one that is torn with beasts may be put to any other use, but under no circumstances are you to eat of it." 
Leviticus7:25 For whoever eats the fat of the beast from which men offer an offering made by fire to the Lord, that person shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus7:26 Moreover, you shall eat no blood of any kind, whether of bird or of beast, in any of your dwellings." 
Leviticus7:27 Whoever eats any kind of blood, that person shall be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus7:28 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus7:29 Tell the Israelites, He who offers the sacrifice of his peace offerings to the Lord shall bring his offering to the Lord; from the sacrifice of his peace offerings" 
Leviticus7:30 He shall bring with his own hands the offerings made by fire to the Lord; he shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be waved as a wave offering before the Lord." 
Leviticus7:31 The priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast shall be for Aaron and his sons." 
Leviticus7:32 And the right thigh you shall give to the priest for an offering from the sacrifices of your peace offerings. 
Leviticus7:33 The son of Aaron who offers the blood of the peace offerings and the fat shall have the right thigh for his portion. 
Leviticus7:34 For I have taken the breast that was waved and the thigh that was offered from the Israelites, out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as their perpetual due from the Israelites." 
Leviticus7:35 This is the anointing portion of Aaron and his sons out of the offerings to the Lord made by fire on the day when they were presented to minister to the Lord in the priest's office. 
Leviticus7:36 The Lord commanded this to be given them of the Israelites on the day when they were anointed. It is their portion perpetually throughout their generations. 
Leviticus7:37 This is the law of the burnt offering, the cereal offering, the sin offering, the guilt or trespass offering, the consecration offering, and the sacrifice of peace offerings," 
Leviticus7:38 Which the Lord ordered Moses on Mount Sinai on the day He commanded the Israelites to offer their sacrifices to the Lord, in the Wilderness of Sinai." 
Leviticus8:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus8:2 Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments [symbols of their office], and the anointing oil, and the bull of the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened bread;" 
Leviticus8:3 And assemble all the congregation at the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus8:4 Moses did as the Lord commanded him, and the congregation was assembled at the door of the Tent of Meeting." 
Leviticus8:5 Moses told the congregation, This is what the Lord has commanded to be done." 
Leviticus8:6 Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water. 
Leviticus8:7 He put on Aaron the long undertunic, girded him with the long sash, clothed him with the robe, put the ephod (an upper vestment) upon him, and girded him with the skillfully woven cords attached to the ephod, binding it to him." 
Leviticus8:8 And Moses put upon Aaron the breastplate; also he put in the breastplate the Urim and the Thummim [articles upon which the high priest put his hand when seeking the divine will concerning the nation]. 
Leviticus8:9 And he put the turban or miter on his head; on it, in front, Moses put the shining gold plate, the holy diadem, as the Lord commanded him." 
Leviticus8:10 And Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and consecrated them." 
Leviticus8:11 And he sprinkled some of the oil on the altar seven times and anointed the altar and all its utensils, and the laver and its base, to consecrate them." 
Leviticus8:12 And he poured some of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head and anointed him to consecrate him. 
Leviticus8:13 And Moses brought Aaron's sons and put undertunics on them and girded them with sashes and wound turbans on them, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:14 Then he brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering." 
Leviticus8:15 Moses killed it and took the blood and put it on the horns of the altar round about with his finger and poured the blood at the base of the altar and purified and consecrated the altar to make atonement for it. 
Leviticus8:16 He took all the fat that was on the entrails, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys with their fat, and Moses burned them on the altar." 
Leviticus8:17 But the bull [the sin offering] and its hide, its flesh, and its dung he burned with fire outside the camp, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:18 He brought the ram for the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram." 
Leviticus8:19 And Moses killed it and dashed the blood upon the altar round about. 
Leviticus8:20 He cut the ram into pieces and Moses burned the head, the pieces, and the fat." 
Leviticus8:21 And he washed the entrails and the legs in water; then Moses burned the whole ram on the altar; it was a burnt sacrifice, for a sweet and satisfying fragrance, an offering made by fire to the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:22 And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration and ordination, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram." 
Leviticus8:23 And Moses killed it and took some of its blood and put it on the tip of Aaron's right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot." 
Leviticus8:24 And he brought Aaron's sons and Moses put some of the blood on the tips of their right ears, and the thumbs of their right hands, and the great toes of their right feet; and Moses dashed the blood upon the altar round about." 
Leviticus8:25 And he took the fat, the fat tail, all the fat that was on the entrails, the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat, and the right thigh;" 
Leviticus8:26 And out of the basket of unleavened bread, that was before the Lord, he took one unleavened cake, a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer and put them on the fat and on the right thigh;" 
Leviticus8:27 And he put all these in Aaron's hands and his sons' hands and waved them for a wave offering before the Lord. 
Leviticus8:28 Then Moses took these things from their hands and burned them on the altar with the burnt offering as an ordination offering, for a sweet and satisfying fragrance, an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus8:29 And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave offering before the Lord; for of the ram of consecration and ordination it was Moses' portion, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Leviticus8:30 And Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood which was on the altar and sprinkled it on Aaron and his garments, and upon his sons and their garments also; so Moses consecrated Aaron and his garments, and his sons and his sons' garments." 
Leviticus8:31 And Moses said to Aaron and his sons, Boil the flesh at the door of the Tent of Meeting and there eat it with the bread that is in the basket of consecration and ordination, as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it." 
Leviticus8:32 And what remains of the flesh and of the bread you shall burn with fire. 
Leviticus8:33 And you shall not go out of the door of the Tent of Meeting for seven days, until the days of your consecration and ordination are ended; for it will take seven days to consecrate and ordain you." 
Leviticus8:34 As has been done this day, so the Lord has commanded to do for your atonement." 
Leviticus8:35 At the door of the Tent of Meeting you shall remain day and night for seven days, doing what the Lord has charged you to do, that you die not; for so I am commanded." 
Leviticus8:36 So Aaron and his sons did all the things which the Lord commanded through Moses. 
Leviticus9:1 ON THE eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel; 
Leviticus9:2 And he said to Aaron, Take a young calf for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering, [each] without blemish, and offer them before the Lord. [Heb. 10:10-12.]" 
Leviticus9:3 And say to the Israelites, Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt offering," 
Leviticus9:4 Also a bull and a ram for peace offerings to sacrifice before the Lord, and a cereal offering mixed with oil, for today the Lord will appear to you." 
Leviticus9:5 They brought before the Tent of Meeting what Moses [had] commanded; all the congregation drew near and stood before the Lord. 
Leviticus9:6 And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commanded you to do, and the glory of the Lord will appear to you." 
Leviticus9:7 And Moses said to Aaron, Draw near to the altar and offer your sin offering and your burnt offering and make atonement for yourself and for the people; and offer the offering of the people and make atonement for them, as the Lord commanded. [Heb. 5:1-5; 7:27.]" 
Leviticus9:8 So Aaron drew near to the altar and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was designated for himself." 
Leviticus9:9 The sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar and poured out the blood at the altar's base; 
Leviticus9:10 But the fat, the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver from the sin offering he burned on the altar, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Leviticus9:11 And the flesh and the hide Aaron burned with fire outside the camp. 
Leviticus9:12 He killed the burnt offering, and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, which he dashed round about upon the altar." 
Leviticus9:13 And they brought the burnt offering to him piece by piece, and the head, and Aaron burned them upon the altar." 
Leviticus9:14 And he washed the entrails and the legs and burned them with the burnt offering on the altar. 
Leviticus9:15 Then Aaron presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people and killed it and offered it for sin as he did the first sin offering. [Heb. 2:16, 17.]" 
Leviticus9:16 And he presented the burnt offering and offered it according to the ordinance. 
Leviticus9:17 And Aaron presented the cereal offering and took a handful of it and burned it on the altar in addition to the burnt offering of the morning. 
Leviticus9:18 He also killed the bull and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings, for the people; and Aaron's sons presented to him the blood, which he dashed upon the altar round about," 
Leviticus9:19 And the fat of the bull and of the ram, the fat tail and that which covers the entrails, and the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver." 
Leviticus9:20 And they put the fat upon the breasts, and Aaron burned the fat upon the altar;" 
Leviticus9:21 But the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before the Lord, as Moses commanded." 
Leviticus9:22 Then Aaron lifted his hands toward the people and blessed them, and came down [from the altar] after offering the sin offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings." 
Leviticus9:23 Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting, and when they came out they blessed the people, and the glory of the Lord [the Shekinah cloud] appeared to all the people [as promised]. [Lev. 9:6.]" 
Leviticus9:24 Then there came a fire out from before the Lord and consumed the burnt offering and the fat on the altar; and when all the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces." 
Leviticus10:1 AND NADAB and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it, and put incense on it, and offered strange and unholy fire before the Lord, as He had not commanded them." 
Leviticus10:2 And there came forth fire from before the Lord and killed them, and they died before the Lord." 
Leviticus10:3 Then Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord meant when He said, I [and My will, not their own] will be acknowledged as hallowed by those who come near Me, and before all the people I will be honored. And Aaron said nothing." 
Leviticus10:4 Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, sons of Uzziel uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp." 
Leviticus10:5 So they drew near and carried them in their undertunics [stripped of their priestly vestments] out of the camp, as Moses had said." 
Leviticus10:6 And Moses said to Aaron and Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons [the father and brothers of the two priests whom God had slain for offering false fire], Do not uncover your heads or let your hair go loose or tear your clothes, lest you die [also] and lest God's wrath should come upon all the congregation; but let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the Lord has kindled." 
Leviticus10:7 And you shall not go out from the door of the Tent of Meeting, lest you die, for the Lord's anointing oil is upon you. And they did according to Moses' word." 
Leviticus10:8 And the Lord said to Aaron," 
Leviticus10:9 Do not drink wine or strong drink, you or your sons, when you go into the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; it shall be a statute forever in all your generations." 
Leviticus10:10 You shall make a distinction and recognize a difference between the holy and the common or unholy, and between the unclean and the clean;" 
Leviticus10:11 And you are to teach the Israelites all the statutes which the Lord has spoken to them by Moses. 
Leviticus10:12 And Moses said to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons who were left, Take the cereal offering that remains of the offerings of the Lord made by fire and eat it without leaven beside the altar, for it is most holy." 
Leviticus10:13 You shall eat it in a sacred place, because it is your due and your sons' due, from the offerings made by fire to the Lord; for so I am commanded." 
Leviticus10:14 But the breast that is waved and the thigh that is offered you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons and daughters with you; for they are your due and your sons' due, given out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the Israelites." 
Leviticus10:15 The thigh that is offered and the breast that is waved they shall bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave for a wave offering before the Lord; and it shall be yours and your sons' with you as a portion or due perpetually, as the Lord has commanded." 
Leviticus10:16 And Moses diligently tried to find [what had become of] the goat [that had been offered] for the sin offering, and behold, it was burned up [as waste]! And he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who were left alive, and said," 
Leviticus10:17 Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the Holy Place? It is most holy; and God has given it to you to bear and take away the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the Lord." 
Leviticus10:18 Behold, the blood of it was not brought within the Holy Place; you should indeed have eaten [the flesh of it] in the Holy Place, as I commanded." 
Leviticus10:19 But Aaron said to Moses, Behold, this very day in which they have [obediently] offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the Lord, such [terrible calamities] have befallen me [and them]! If I [and they] had eaten the most holy sin offering today [humbled as we have been by the sin of our kinsmen and God's judgment upon them], would it have been acceptable in the sight of the Lord? [Hos. 9:4.]" 
Leviticus10:20 And when Moses heard that, he was pacified." 
Leviticus11:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus11:2 Say to the Israelites: These are the animals which you may eat among all the beasts that are on the earth. [Mark 7:15-19.] 
Leviticus11:3 Whatever parts the hoof and is cloven-footed and chews the cud, any of these animals you may eat." 
Leviticus11:4 Nevertheless these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud or divide the hoof: the camel, because it chews the cud but does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:5 And the coney or rock badger, because it chews the cud but does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:6 And the hare, because it chews the cud but does not divide the hoof; it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:7 And the swine, because it divides the hoof and is cloven-footed but does not chew the cud; it is unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:8 Of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch; they are unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:9 These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, these you may eat;" 
Leviticus11:10 But all that have not fins and scales in the seas and in the rivers, of all the creeping things in the waters, and of all the living creatures which are in the waters, they are [to be considered] an abomination and abhorrence to you. [I Cor. 8:8-13.]" 
Leviticus11:11 They shall continue to be an abomination to you; you shall not eat of their flesh, but you shall detest their carcasses." 
Leviticus11:12 Everything in the waters that has not fins or scales shall be abhorrent and detestable to you. 
Leviticus11:13 These you shall have in abomination among the birds; they shall not be eaten, for they are detestable: the eagle, the ossifrage, the ospray," 
Leviticus11:14 The kite, the whole species of falcon," 
Leviticus11:15 Every kind of raven," 
Leviticus11:16 The ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, every species of hawk," 
Leviticus11:17 The owl, the cormorant, the ibis," 
Leviticus11:18 The swan, the pelican, the vulture," 
Leviticus11:19 The stork, all kinds of heron, the hoopoe, and the bat." 
Leviticus11:20 All winged insects that go upon all fours are to be an abomination to you; 
Leviticus11:21 Yet of all winged insects that go upon all fours you may eat those which have legs above their feet with which to leap on the ground. 
Leviticus11:22 Of these you may eat: the whole species of locust, of bald locust, of cricket, and of grasshopper. [Matt. 3:4.]" 
Leviticus11:23 But all other winged insects which have four feet shall be detestable to you. 
Leviticus11:24 And by [contact with] these you shall become unclean; whoever touches the carcass of them shall be unclean until the evening," 
Leviticus11:25 And whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. 
Leviticus11:26 Every beast which parts the hoof but is not cloven-footed or does not chew the cud is unclean to you; everyone who touches them shall be unclean. 
Leviticus11:27 And all that go on their paws, among all kinds of four-footed beasts, are unclean to you; whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening," 
Leviticus11:28 And he who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; they are unclean to you. 
Leviticus11:29 These also are unclean to you among the creeping things [that multiply greatly] and creep upon the ground: the weasel, the mouse, any kind of great lizard," 
Leviticus11:30 The gecko, the land crocodile, the lizard, the sand lizard, and the chameleon." 
Leviticus11:31 These are unclean to you among all that creep; whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening. 
Leviticus11:32 And upon whatever they may fall when they are dead, it shall be unclean, whether it is an article of wood or clothing or skin (bottle) or sack, any vessel in which work is done; it must be put in water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; so it shall be cleansed." 
Leviticus11:33 And every earthen vessel into which any of these [creeping things] falls, whatever may be in it shall be unclean, and you shall break the vessel." 
Leviticus11:34 Of all the food [in one of these unclean vessels] which may be eaten, that on which such water comes shall be unclean, and all drink that may be drunk from every such vessel shall be unclean." 
Leviticus11:35 And everything upon which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether an oven, or pan with a lid, or hearth for pots, it shall be broken in pieces; they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:36 Yet a spring or a cistern or reservoir of water shall be clean; but whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean. 
Leviticus11:37 If a part of their carcass falls on seed which is to be sown, it shall be clean;" 
Leviticus11:38 But if any water be put on the seed and any part of their carcass falls on it, it shall be unclean to you." 
Leviticus11:39 If any animal of which you may eat dies [unslaughtered], he who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:40 And he who eats of its carcass [ignorantly] shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening; he also who carries its carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus11:41 And everything that creeps on the ground and [multiplies in] swarms shall be an abomination; it shall not be eaten. 
Leviticus11:42 Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has more [than four] feet among all things that creep on the ground and swarm you shall not eat; for they are detestable." 
Leviticus11:43 You shall not make yourselves loathsome and abominable [by eating] any swarming thing that [multiplies by] swarms, neither shall you make yourselves unclean with them, that you should be defiled by them." 
Leviticus11:44 For I am the Lord your God; so consecrate yourselves and be holy, for I am holy; neither defile yourselves with any manner of thing that multiplies in large numbers or swarms. [I Thess. 4:7, 8.]" 
Leviticus11:45 For I am the Lord Who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God; therefore you shall be holy, for I am holy. [I Pet. 1:14-16.]" 
Leviticus11:46 This is the law of the beast, and of the bird, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and creeps on the earth and multiplies in large numbers," 
Leviticus11:47 To make a difference (a distinction) between the unclean and the clean, and between the animal that may be eaten and the animal that may not be eaten." 
Leviticus12:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus12:2 Say to the Israelites, If a woman conceives and bears a male child, she shall be unclean seven days, unclean as during her monthly discomfort." 
Leviticus12:3 And on the eighth day the child shall be circumcised. 
Leviticus12:4 Then she shall remain [separated] thirty-three days to be purified [from her loss] of blood; she shall touch no hallowed thing nor come into the [court of the] sanctuary until the days of her purifying are over. 
Leviticus12:5 But if the child she bears is a girl, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her periodic impurity, and she shall remain separated sixty-six days to be purified [from her loss] of blood." 
Leviticus12:6 When the days of her purifying are completed, whether for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring a lamb a year old for a burnt offering and a young pigeon or a turtledove for a sin offering to the door of the Tent of Meeting to the priest;" 
Leviticus12:7 And he shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her, and she shall be cleansed from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who has borne a male or a female child." 
Leviticus12:8 If she is unable to bring a lamb [for lack of means] then she shall bring two turtledoves or young pigeons, one for a burnt offering, the other for a sin offering; the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean. [Luke 2:22, 24.]" 
Leviticus13:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus13:2 When a man has a swelling on his skin, a scab, or a bright spot, and it becomes the disease of leprosy in his skin, then he shall be brought to the priest, to Aaron or one of his sons." 
Leviticus13:3 The priest shall look at the diseased spot on his skin, and if the hair in it has turned white and the disease appears depressed and deeper than his skin, it is a leprous disease; and the priest shall examine him, and pronounce him unclean." 
Leviticus13:4 If the bright spot is white on his skin, not depressed, and the hair on it not turned white, the priest shall quarantine the person or bind up the spot for seven days." 
Leviticus13:5 And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day, and if the disease in his estimation is at a standstill and has not spread in the skin, then the priest shall quarantine the person or bind up the spot seven more days." 
Leviticus13:6 And the priest shall examine him again the seventh day, and if the diseased part has a more normal color and the disease has not spread in the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean; it is only an eruption or a scab; and he shall wash his clothes and be clean." 
Leviticus13:7 But if the eruption or scab spreads farther in the skin after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall be seen by the priest again." 
Leviticus13:8 If the priest sees that the eruption or scab is spreading in the skin, then he shall pronounce him unclean; it is leprosy." 
Leviticus13:9 When the disease of leprosy is in a man, he shall be brought to the priest;" 
Leviticus13:10 And the priest shall examine him, and if there is a white swelling in the skin and the hair on it has turned white and there is quick raw flesh in the swelling," 
Leviticus13:11 It is a chronic leprosy in the skin of his body, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean; he shall not bind the spot up, for he is unclean." 
Leviticus13:12 But if [supposed] leprosy breaks out in the skin, and it covers all the skin of him who has the disease from head to foot, wherever the priest looks," 
Leviticus13:13 The priest shall examine him; if the [supposed] leprosy covers all his body, he shall pronounce him clean of the disease; it is all turned white, and he is clean." 
Leviticus13:14 But when the raw flesh appears on him, he shall be unclean." 
Leviticus13:15 And the priest shall examine the raw flesh and pronounce him unclean; for the raw flesh is unclean; it is leprosy. 
Leviticus13:16 But if the raw flesh turns again and becomes white, he shall come to the priest," 
Leviticus13:17 And the priest shall examine him, and if the diseased part is turned to white again, then the priest shall pronounce him clean who had the disease; he is clean." 
Leviticus13:18 And when there is in the skin of the body [the scar of] a boil that is healed," 
Leviticus13:19 And in the place of the boil there is a white swelling or a bright spot, reddish white, and it is shown to the priest," 
Leviticus13:20 And if when the priest examines it it looks lower than the skin and the hair on it is turned white, the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is the disease of leprosy; it has broken out in the boil." 
Leviticus13:21 But if the priest examines it and finds no white hair in it and it is not lower than the skin but appears darker, then the priest shall bind it up for seven days." 
Leviticus13:22 If it spreads in the skin, [he] shall pronounce him unclean; it is diseased." 
Leviticus13:23 But if the bright spot does not spread, it is the scar of the boil, and the priest shall pronounce him clean." 
Leviticus13:24 Or if there is any flesh in the skin of which there is a burn by fire and the quick flesh of the burn becomes a bright spot, reddish white or white," 
Leviticus13:25 Then the priest shall examine it, and if the hair in the bright spot is turned white, and it appears deeper than the skin, it is leprosy broken out in the burn. Therefore the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is the disease of leprosy." 
Leviticus13:26 But if the priest examines it and there is no white hair in the bright spot and it is not lower than the rest of the skin but is darker, then the priest shall bind it up for seven days." 
Leviticus13:27 And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day; if it is spreading in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is leprosy." 
Leviticus13:28 But if the bright spot has not spread but is darker, it is a swelling from the burn, and the priest shall pronounce him clean; for it is the scar of the burn." 
Leviticus13:29 When a man or woman has a disease upon the head or in the beard," 
Leviticus13:30 The priest shall examine the diseased place; if it appears to be deeper than the skin, with yellow, thin hair in it, the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a mangelike leprosy of the head or beard." 
Leviticus13:31 If the priest examines the spot infected by the mangelike disease, and it does not appear deeper than the skin and there is no black hair in it, the priest shall bind up the spot for seven days." 
Leviticus13:32 On the seventh day the priest shall examine the diseased spot; if the mange has not spread and has no yellow hair in it and does not look deeper than the skin," 
Leviticus13:33 Then the patient shall be shaved, except the mangelike spot; and the priest shall bind up the spot seven days more." 
Leviticus13:34 On the seventh day the priest shall look at the mangelike spot; if the mange has not spread and looks no deeper than the skin, he shall pronounce the patient clean; he shall wash his clothes and be clean." 
Leviticus13:35 But if the mangelike spot spreads in the skin after his cleansing," 
Leviticus13:36 Then the priest shall examine him, and if the mangelike spot is spread in the skin, the priest need not look for the yellow hair; the patient is unclean." 
Leviticus13:37 But if in his estimation the mange is at a standstill and has black hair in it, the mangelike disease is healed; he is clean; the priest shall pronounce him clean." 
Leviticus13:38 When a man or a woman has on the skin bright spots, even white bright spots," 
Leviticus13:39 Then the priest shall look, and if the bright spots in the skin are a dull white, it is a harmless eruption; he is clean." 
Leviticus13:40 If a man's hair has fallen from his head, he is bald, but he is clean." 
Leviticus13:41 And if his hair has fallen out from the front of his head, he has baldness of the forehead, but he is clean." 
Leviticus13:42 But if there is on the bald head or forehead a reddish white diseased spot, it is leprosy breaking out on his baldness." 
Leviticus13:43 Then the priest shall examine him, and if the diseased swelling is reddish white on his bald head or forehead like the appearance of leprosy in the skin of the body," 
Leviticus13:44 He is a leprous man; he is unclean; the priest shall surely pronounce him unclean; his disease is on his head. 
Leviticus13:45 And the leper's clothes shall be rent, and the hair of his head shall hang loose, and he shall cover his upper lip and cry, Unclean, unclean!" 
Leviticus13:46 He shall remain unclean as long as the disease is in him; he is unclean; he shall live alone [and] his dwelling shall be outside the camp. 
Leviticus13:47 The garment also that the disease of leprosy [symbolic of sin] is in, whether a wool or a linen garment, [Jude 23; Rev. 3:4.]" 
Leviticus13:48 Whether it be in woven or knitted stuff or in the warp or woof of linen or of wool, or in a skin or anything made of skin," 
Leviticus13:49 If the disease is greenish or reddish in the garment, or in a skin or in the warp or woof or in anything made of skin, it is the plague of leprosy; show it to the priest." 
Leviticus13:50 The priest shall examine the diseased article and shut it up for seven days. 
Leviticus13:51 He shall examine the disease on the seventh day; if [it] is spread in the garment, or in the article, whatever service it may be used for, the disease is a rotting or corroding leprosy; it is unclean." 
Leviticus13:52 He shall burn the garment, whether diseased in warp or woof, in wool or linen, or anything made of skin; for it is a rotting or corroding leprosy, to be burned in the fire." 
Leviticus13:53 But if the priest finds the disease has not spread in the garment, in the warp or the woof, or in anything made of skin," 
Leviticus13:54 Then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which the plague is, and he shall shut it up seven days more." 
Leviticus13:55 And the priest shall examine the diseased article after it has been washed, and if the diseased portion has not changed color, though the disease has not spread, it is unclean; you shall burn it in the fire; it is a rotting or corroding [disease], whether the leprous spot be inside or outside." 
Leviticus13:56 If the priest looks and the diseased portion is less noticeable after it is washed, he shall tear it out of the garment, or the skin (leather), or out of the warp or woof." 
Leviticus13:57 If it appears still in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in anything made of skin, it is spreading; you shall burn the diseased part with fire." 
Leviticus13:58 But the garment, or the woven or knitted stuff or warp or woof, or anything made of skin from which the disease departs when you have washed it, shall then be washed a second time, and be clean." 
Leviticus13:59 This is the law for a leprous disease in a garment of wool or linen, either in the warp or woof, or in anything made of skin, to pronounce it clean or unclean." 
Leviticus14:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus14:2 This shall be the law of the leper on the day when he is to be pronounced clean: he shall be brought to the priest [at a meeting place outside the camp]; 
Leviticus14:3 The priest shall go out of the camp [to meet him]; and [he] shall examine him, and if the disease is healed in the leper," 
Leviticus14:4 Then the priest shall command to take for him who is to be cleansed two living clean birds and cedar wood and scarlet [material] and hyssop. [Heb. 9:19-22.] 
Leviticus14:5 And the priest shall command to kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over fresh, running water." 
Leviticus14:6 As for the living bird, he shall take it, the cedar wood, and the scarlet [material], and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird killed over the running water;" 
Leviticus14:7 And he shall sprinkle [the blood] on him who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let go the living bird into the open field. [Heb. 9:13-15.]" 
Leviticus14:8 He who is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, shave off all his hair, and bathe himself in water; and he shall be clean. After that he shall come into the camp, but stay outside his tent seven days." 
Leviticus14:9 But on the seventh day he shall shave all his hair off his head, his beard, his eyebrows, and his [body]; and he shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and be clean." 
Leviticus14:10 On the eighth day he shall take two he-lambs without blemish and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish, and three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, and one log of oil." 
Leviticus14:11 And the priest who cleanses him shall set the man who is to be cleansed and these things before the Lord at the door of the Tent of Meeting; 
Leviticus14:12 The priest shall take one of the male lambs and offer it for a guilt or trespass offering, and the log of oil, and wave them for a wave offering before the Lord." 
Leviticus14:13 He shall kill the lamb in the place where they kill the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the sacred place [the court of the tabernacle]; for as the sin offering is the priest's, so is the guilt or trespass offering; it is most holy;" 
Leviticus14:14 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the guilt or trespass offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot." 
Leviticus14:15 And the priest shall take some of the log of oil and pour it into the palm of his own left hand; 
Leviticus14:16 And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand and shall sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before the Lord; 
Leviticus14:17 And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put some on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, on the blood of the guilt or trespass offering [which he has previously placed in each of these places]." 
Leviticus14:18 And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall pour upon the head of him who is to be cleansed and make atonement for him before the Lord. 
Leviticus14:19 And the priest shall offer the sin offering and make atonement for him who is to be cleansed from his uncleanness, and afterward kill the burnt offering [victim]." 
Leviticus14:20 And the priest shall offer the burnt offering and the cereal offering on the altar; and he shall make atonement for him, and he shall be clean." 
Leviticus14:21 If the cleansed leper is poor and cannot afford so much, he shall take one lamb for a guilt or trespass offering to be waved to make atonement for him, and one tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering, and a log of oil," 
Leviticus14:22 And two turtledoves or two young pigeons, such as he can afford, one for a sin offering, the other for a burnt offering." 
Leviticus14:23 He shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing to the priest at the door of the Tent of Meeting, before the Lord." 
Leviticus14:24 And the priest shall take the lamb of the guilt or trespass offering, and the log of oil, and shall wave them for a wave offering before the Lord." 
Leviticus14:25 And he shall kill the lamb of the guilt or trespass offering, and the priest shall take some of the blood of the offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot." 
Leviticus14:26 And the priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand," 
Leviticus14:27 And shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before the Lord. 
Leviticus14:28 The priest shall put some of the oil in his hand on the tip of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, on the places where he has put the blood of the guilt offering." 
Leviticus14:29 The rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put on the head of the one to be cleansed, to make atonement for him before the Lord." 
Leviticus14:30 And he shall offer one of the turtledoves or of the young pigeons, such as he is able to get," 
Leviticus14:31 As he can afford, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, together with the cereal offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him who is to be cleansed before the Lord." 
Leviticus14:32 This is the law of him in whom is the plague of leprosy, who is not able to get what is required for his cleansing." 
Leviticus14:33 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus14:34 When you have come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I put the disease of leprosy in a house of the land of your possession," 
Leviticus14:35 Then he who owns the house shall come and tell the priest, It seems to me there is some sort of disease in my house." 
Leviticus14:36 Then the priest shall command that they empty the house before [he] goes in to examine the disease, so that all that is in the house may not be declared unclean; afterward [he] shall go in to see the house." 
Leviticus14:37 He shall examine the disease, and if it is in the walls of the house with depressed spots of dark green or dark red appearing beneath [the surface of] the wall," 
Leviticus14:38 Then the priest shall go out of the door and shut up the house seven days. 
Leviticus14:39 The priest shall come again on the seventh day and shall look; and if the disease has spread in the walls of the house," 
Leviticus14:40 He shall command that they take out the diseased stones and cast them into an unclean place outside the city. 
Leviticus14:41 He shall cause the house to be scraped within round about and the plaster or mortar that is scraped off to be emptied out in an unclean place outside the city. 
Leviticus14:42 And they shall put other stones in the place of those stones, and he shall plaster the house with fresh mortar." 
Leviticus14:43 If the disease returns, breaking out in the house after he has removed the stones and has scraped and plastered the house," 
Leviticus14:44 Then the priest shall come and look, and if the disease is spreading in the house, it is a rotting or corroding leprosy in the house; it is unclean." 
Leviticus14:45 He shall tear down the house,its stones and its timber and all the plaster or mortar of the house,and shall carry them forth out of the city to an unclean place. 
Leviticus14:46 Moreover, he who enters the house during the whole time that it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus14:47 And he who lies down or eats in the house shall wash his clothes. 
Leviticus14:48 But if the priest inspects it and the disease has not spread after the house was plastered, he shall pronounce the house clean, because the disease is healed." 
Leviticus14:49 He shall take to cleanse the house two birds, cedar wood, scarlet [material], and hyssop;" 
Leviticus14:50 And he shall kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water," 
Leviticus14:51 And he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet [material], and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times." 
Leviticus14:52 And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, the running water, the living bird, the cedar wood, the hyssop, and the scarlet [material]." 
Leviticus14:53 But he shall let the living bird go out of the city into the open field; so he shall make atonement for the house, and it shall be clean." 
Leviticus14:54 This is the law for all kinds of leprous diseases, and mangelike conditions," 
Leviticus14:55 For the leprosy of a garment or of a house," 
Leviticus14:56 And for a swelling or an eruption or a scab or a bright spot," 
Leviticus14:57 To teach when it is unclean and when it is clean. This is the law of leprosy. 
Leviticus15:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Leviticus15:2 Say to the Israelites, When any man has a running discharge from his body, because of his discharge he is unclean." 
Leviticus15:3 This shall be [the law concerning] his uncleanness in his discharge: whether his body runs with his discharge or has stopped [running], it is uncleanness in him." 
Leviticus15:4 Every bed on which the one who has the discharge lies is unclean, and everything on which he sits shall be unclean." 
Leviticus15:5 Whoever touches that person's bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus15:6 And whoever sits on anything on which he who has the discharge has sat shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus15:7 And he who touches the flesh of him who has the discharge shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus15:8 And if he who has the discharge spits on him who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening." 
Leviticus15:9 And any saddle on which he who has the discharge rides shall be unclean. 
Leviticus15:10 Whoever touches anything that has been under him shall be unclean until evening; and he who carries those things shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:11 Whomever he who has the discharge touches without rinsing his hands in water shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:12 The earthen vessel that he with the discharge touches shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water." 
Leviticus15:13 When he who has a discharge is cleansed of it, he shall count seven days for his purification, then wash his clothes, bathe in running water, and be clean." 
Leviticus15:14 On the eighth day he shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons and come before the Lord to the door of the Tent of Meeting and give them to the priest; 
Leviticus15:15 And the priest shall offer them, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering; and [he] shall make atonement for the man before the Lord for his discharge." 
Leviticus15:16 And if any man has a discharge of semen, he shall wash all his body in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:17 And every garment and every skin on which the sperm comes shall be washed with water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:18 The woman also with whom a man with emission of semen shall lie, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:19 And if a woman has a discharge, her [regular] discharge of blood of her body, she shall be in her impurity or separation for seven days, and whoever touches her shall be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:20 And everything that she lies on in her separation shall be unclean; everything also that she sits on shall be unclean. 
Leviticus15:21 And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:22 Whoever touches anything she sat on shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:23 And if her flow has stained her bed or anything on which she sat, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:24 And if any man lie with her and her impurity be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days; and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean." 
Leviticus15:25 And if a woman has an issue of blood for many days, not during the time of her separation, or if she has a discharge beyond the time of her [regular] impurity, all the days of the issue of her uncleanness she shall be as in the days of her impurity; she shall be unclean. [Matt. 9:20.]" 
Leviticus15:26 Every bed on which she lies all the days of her discharge shall be as the bed of her impurity, and whatever she sits on shall be unclean, as in her impurity." 
Leviticus15:27 And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening." 
Leviticus15:28 But if she is cleansed of her discharge, then she shall wait seven days, and after that she shall be clean." 
Leviticus15:29 And on the eighth day she shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons and bring them to the priest at the door of the Tent of Meeting; 
Leviticus15:30 He shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering; and he shall make atonement for her before the Lord for her unclean discharge. 
Leviticus15:31 Thus you shall separate the Israelites from their uncleanness, lest they die in their uncleanness by defiling My tabernacle that is in the midst of them." 
Leviticus15:32 This is the law for him who has a discharge and for him who has emissions of sperm, being made unclean by it;" 
Leviticus15:33 And for her who is sick with her impurity, and for any person who has a discharge, whether man or woman, and for him who lies with her who is unclean." 
Leviticus16:1 AFTER THE death of Aaron's two sons, when they drew near before the Lord [offered false fire] and died, [Lev. 10:1, 2.]" 
Leviticus16:2 The Lord said to Moses, Tell Aaron your brother he must not come at all times into the Holy of Holies within the veil before the mercy seat upon the ark, lest he die; for I will appear in the cloud on the mercy seat. [Heb. 9:7-15, 25-28.]" 
Leviticus16:3 But Aaron shall come into the holy enclosure in this way: with a young bull for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:4 He shall put on the holy linen undergarment, and he shall have the linen breeches upon his body, and be girded with the linen girdle or sash, and with the linen turban or miter shall he be attired; these are the holy garments; he shall bathe his body in water and then put them on." 
Leviticus16:5 He shall take [at the expense] of the congregation of the Israelites two male goats for a sin offering and one ram for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:6 And Aaron shall present the bull as the sin offering for himself and make atonement for himself and for his house [the other priests]. 
Leviticus16:7 He shall take the two goats and present them before the Lord at the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus16:8 Aaron shall cast lots on the two goats,one lot for the Lord, the other lot for Azazel or removal." 
Leviticus16:9 And Aaron shall bring the goat on which the Lord's lot fell and offer him as a sin offering. 
Leviticus16:10 But the goat on which the lot fell for Azazel or removal shall be presented alive before the Lord to make atonement over him, that he may be let go into the wilderness for Azazel (for dismissal)." 
Leviticus16:11 Aaron shall present the bull as the sin offering for his own sins and shall make atonement for himself and for his house [the other priests], and shall kill the bull as the sin offering for himself." 
Leviticus16:12 He shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the [bronze] altar before the Lord, and his two hands full of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the veil [into the Holy of Holies]," 
Leviticus16:13 And put the incense on the fire [in the censer] before the Lord, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is upon [the ark of] the Testimony, lest he die." 
Leviticus16:14 He shall take of the bull's blood and sprinkle it with his finger on the front [the east side] of the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat he shall sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven times." 
Leviticus16:15 Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering that is for [the sins of] the people and bring its blood within the veil [into the Holy of Holies] and do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat and before the mercy seat. [Heb. 2:17.]" 
Leviticus16:16 Thus he shall make atonement for the Holy Place because of the uncleanness of the Israelites and because of their transgressions, even all their sins; and so shall he do for the Tent of Meeting, that remains among them in the midst of their uncleanness. [Heb. 9:22-24.]" 
Leviticus16:17 There shall be no man in the Tent of Meeting when the high priest goes in to make atonement in the Holy of Holies [within the veil] until he comes out and has made atonement for his own sins and those of his house [the other priests] and of all the congregation of Israel. 
Leviticus16:18 And he shall go out to the altar [of burnt offering in the court] which is before the Lord and make atonement for it, and shall take some of the blood of the bull and of the goat and put it on the horns of the altar round about." 
Leviticus16:19 And he shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his fingers seven times and cleanse it and hallow it from the uncleanness of the Israelites. 
Leviticus16:20 And when he has finished atoning for the Holy of Holies and the Tent of Meeting and the altar [of burnt offering], he shall present the live goat;" 
Leviticus16:21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat and confess over him all the iniquities of the Israelites and all their transgressions, all their sins; and he shall put them upon the head of the goat [the sin-bearer], and send him away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who is timely (ready, fit)." 
Leviticus16:22 The goat shall bear upon himself all their iniquities, carrying them to a land cut off (a land of forgetfulness and separation, not inhabited)! And the man leading it shall let the goat go in the wilderness. [Ps. 103:12; Isa. 53:11, 12; John 1:29.]" 
Leviticus16:23 Aaron shall come into the Tent of Meeting and put off the linen garments which he put on when he went into the Holy of Holies, and leave them there;" 
Leviticus16:24 And he shall bathe his body with water in a sacred place and put on his garments, and come forth and offer his burnt offering and that of the people, and make atonement for himself and for them." 
Leviticus16:25 And the fat of the sin offering he shall burn upon the altar. 
Leviticus16:26 The man who led the sin-bearing goat out and let him go for Azazel or removal shall wash his clothes and bathe his body, and afterward he may come into the camp." 
Leviticus16:27 The bull and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the Holy of Holies, shall be carried forth without the camp; their skins, their flesh, and their dung shall be burned with fire. [Heb. 13:11-13.]" 
Leviticus16:28 And he who burns them shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp." 
Leviticus16:29 It shall be a statute to you forever that in the seventh month [nearly October] on the tenth day of the month you shall afflict yourselves [by fasting with penitence and humiliation] and do no work at all, either the native-born or the stranger who dwells temporarily among you." 
Leviticus16:30 For on this day atonement shall be made for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before the Lord. [Heb. 10:1, 2; I John 1:7, 9.]" 
Leviticus16:31 It is a sabbath of [solemn] rest to you, and you shall afflict yourselves [by fasting with penitence and humiliation]; it is a statute forever." 
Leviticus16:32 And the priest who shall be anointed and consecrated to minister in the priest's office in his father's stead shall make atonement, wearing the holy linen garments;" 
Leviticus16:33 He shall make atonement for the Holy Sanctuary, for the Tent of Meeting, and for the altar [of burnt offering in the court], and shall make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly." 
Leviticus16:34 This shall be an everlasting statute for you, that atonement may be made for the Israelites for all their sins once a year. And Moses did as the Lord commanded him." 
Leviticus17:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus17:2 Tell Aaron, his sons, and all the Israelites, This is what the Lord has commanded:" 
Leviticus17:3 If any man of the house of Israel kills an ox or lamb or goat in the camp or kills it outside the camp 
Leviticus17:4 And does not bring it to the door of the Tent of Meeting to offer it as an offering to the Lord before the Lord's tabernacle, [guilt for shedding] blood shall be imputed to that man; he has shed blood and shall be cut off from among his people." 
Leviticus17:5 This is so that the Israelites, rather than offer their sacrifices [to idols] in the open field [where they slew them], may bring them to the Lord at the door of the Tent of Meeting, to the priest, to offer them as peace offerings to the Lord." 
Leviticus17:6 And the priest shall dash the blood on the altar of the Lord at the door of the Tent of Meeting and burn the fat for a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord. 
Leviticus17:7 So they shall no more offer their sacrifices to goatlike gods or demons or field spirits after which they have played the harlot. This shall be a statute forever to them throughout their generations. 
Leviticus17:8 And you shall say to them, Whoever of the house of Israel or of the strangers who dwell temporarily among you offers a burnt offering or sacrifice" 
Leviticus17:9 And does not bring it to the door of the Tent of Meeting to offer it to the Lord shall be cut off from among his people. 
Leviticus17:10 Any one of the house of Israel or of the strangers who dwell temporarily among them who eats any kind of blood, against that person I will set My face and I will cut him off from among his people [that he may not be included in the atonement made for them]. [Ezek. 33:25.]" 
Leviticus17:11 For the life (the animal soul) is in the blood, and I have given it for you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it is the blood that makes atonement, by reason of the life [which it represents]. [Rom. 3:24-26.]" 
Leviticus17:12 Therefore I have said to the Israelites, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who dwells temporarily among you eat blood." 
Leviticus17:13 And any of the Israelites or of the strangers who sojourn among them who takes in hunting any clean beast or bird shall pour out its blood and cover it with dust. 
Leviticus17:14 As for the life of all flesh, the blood of it represents the life of it; therefore I said to the Israelites, You shall partake of the blood of no kind of flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood. Whoever eats of it shall be cut off." 
Leviticus17:15 And every person who eats what dies of itself or was torn by beasts, whether he is native-born or a temporary resident, shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening; then shall he be clean. [Acts 15:20.]" 
Leviticus17:16 But if he does not wash his clothes or bathe his body, he shall bear his own iniquity [for it shall not be borne by the sacrifice of atonement]." 
Leviticus18:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus18:2 Say to the Israelites, I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus18:3 You shall not do as was done in the land of Egypt in which you dwelt, nor shall you do as is done in the land of Canaan to which I am bringing you; neither shall you walk in their statutes." 
Leviticus18:4 You shall do My ordinances and keep My statutes and walk in them. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus18:5 You shall therefore keep My statutes and My ordinances which, if a man does, he shall live by them. I am the Lord. [Luke 10:25-28; Rom. 10:4, 5; Gal. 3:12.]" 
Leviticus18:6 None of you shall approach anyone close of kin to him to have sexual relations. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus18:7 The nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother, you shall not uncover; she is your mother; you shall not have intercourse with her." 
Leviticus18:8 The nakedness of your father's wife you shall not uncover; it is your father's nakedness. 
Leviticus18:9 You shall not have intercourse with or uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father or of your mother, whether born at home or born abroad." 
Leviticus18:10 You must not have sexual relations with your son's daughter or your daughter's daughter; their nakedness you shall not uncover, for they are your own flesh." 
Leviticus18:11 You must not have intercourse with your father's wife's daughter; begotten by your father, she is your sister; you shall not uncover her nakedness." 
Leviticus18:12 You shall not have intercourse with your father's sister; she is your father's near kinswoman. 
Leviticus18:13 You shall not have sexual relations with your mother's sister, for she is your mother's near kinswoman." 
Leviticus18:14 You shall not have intercourse with your father's brother's wife; you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt. 
Leviticus18:15 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife; you shall not have intercourse with her. 
Leviticus18:16 You shall not have intercourse with your brother's wife; she belongs to your brother. 
Leviticus18:17 You shall not marry a woman and her daughter, nor shall you take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to have intercourse; they are [her] near kinswomen; it is wickedness and an outrageous offense." 
Leviticus18:18 You must not marry a woman in addition to her sister, to be a rival to her, having sexual relations with the second sister when the first one is alive." 
Leviticus18:19 Also you shall not have intercourse with a woman during her [menstrual period or similar] uncleanness. 
Leviticus18:20 Moreover, you shall not lie carnally with your neighbor's wife, to defile yourself with her." 
Leviticus18:21 You shall not give any of your children to pass through the fire and sacrifice them to Molech [the fire god], nor shall you profane the name of your God [by giving it to false gods]. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus18:22 You shall not lie with a man as with a woman; it is an abomination. [I Cor. 6:9, 10.]" 
Leviticus18:23 Neither shall you lie with any beast and defile yourself with it; neither shall any woman yield herself to a beast to lie with it; it is confusion, perversion, and degradedly carnal." 
Leviticus18:24 Do not defile yourselves in any of these ways, for in all these things the nations are defiled which I am casting out before you." 
Leviticus18:25 And the land is defiled; therefore I visit the iniquity of it upon it, and the land itself vomits out her inhabitants." 
Leviticus18:26 So you shall keep My statutes and My ordinances and shall not commit any of these abominations, neither the native-born nor any stranger who sojourns among you," 
Leviticus18:27 For all these abominations have the men of the land done who were before you, and the land is defiled," 
Leviticus18:28 [Do none of these things] lest the land spew you out when you defile it as it spewed out the nation that was before you. 
Leviticus18:29 Whoever commits any of these abominations shall be cut off from among [his] people. 
Leviticus18:30 So keep My charge: do not practice any of these abominable customs which were practiced before you and defile yourselves by them. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus19:2 Say to all the assembly of the Israelites, You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. [I Pet. 1:15.]" 
Leviticus19:3 Each of you shall give due respect to his mother and his father, and keep My Sabbaths holy. I the Lord am your God." 
Leviticus19:4 Do not turn to idols and things of nought or make for yourselves molten gods. I the Lord am your God. 
Leviticus19:5 And when you offer a sacrifice of peace offering to the Lord, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted." 
Leviticus19:6 It shall be eaten the same day you offer it and on the day following; and if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned in the fire." 
Leviticus19:7 If it is eaten at all the third day, it is loathsome; it will not be accepted." 
Leviticus19:8 But everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, for he has profaned a holy thing of the Lord; and that soul shall be cut off from his people [and not be included in the atonement made for them]." 
Leviticus19:9 And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field to its very corners, neither shall you gather the fallen ears or gleanings of your harvest." 
Leviticus19:10 And you shall not glean your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather its fallen grapes; you shall leave them for the poor and the stranger. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:11 You shall not steal, or deal falsely, or lie one to another. [Col. 3:9, 10.]" 
Leviticus19:12 And you shall not swear by My name falsely, neither shall you profane the name of your God. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:13 You shall not defraud or oppress your neighbor or rob him; the wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until morning. 
Leviticus19:14 You shall not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall [reverently] fear your God. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:15 You shall do no injustice in judging a case; you shall not be partial to the poor or show a preference for the mighty, but in righteousness and according to the merits of the case judge your neighbor." 
Leviticus19:16 You shall not go up and down as a dispenser of gossip and scandal among your people, nor shall you [secure yourself by false testimony or by silence and] endanger the life of your neighbor. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:17 You shall not hate your brother in your heart; but you shall surely rebuke your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. [Gal. 6:1; I John 2:9, 11; 3:15.]" 
Leviticus19:18 You shall not take revenge or bear any grudge against the sons of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. [Matt. 5:43-46; Rom. 12:17, 19.]" 
Leviticus19:19 You shall keep My statutes. You shall not let your domestic animals breed with a different kind [of animal]; you shall not sow your field with mixed seed, neither wear a garment of linen mixed with wool." 
Leviticus19:20 And if a man lies carnally with a woman who is a slave betrothed to a husband and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, they shall be punished [after investigation]; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free;" 
Leviticus19:21 But he shall bring his guilt or trespass offering to the Lord to the door of the Tent of Meeting, a ram for a guilt or trespass offering." 
Leviticus19:22 The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt or trespass offering before the Lord for his sin, and he shall be forgiven for committing the sin." 
Leviticus19:23 And when you come into the land and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count the fruit of them as inedible and forbidden to you for three years; it shall not be eaten." 
Leviticus19:24 In the fourth year all their fruit shall be holy for giving praise to the Lord. 
Leviticus19:25 But in the fifth year you may eat of the fruit [of the trees], that their produce may enrich you; I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:26 You shall not eat anything with the blood; neither shall you use magic, omens, or witchcraft [or predict events by horoscope or signs and lucky days]." 
Leviticus19:27 You shall not round the corners of the hair of your heads nor trim the corners of your beard [as some idolaters do]. 
Leviticus19:28 You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead nor print or tattoo any marks upon you; I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:29 Do not profane your daughter by causing her to be a harlot, lest the land fall into harlotry and become full of wickedness." 
Leviticus19:30 You shall keep My Sabbaths and reverence My sanctuary. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:31 Turn not to those [mediums] who have familiar spirits or to wizards; do not seek them out to be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:32 You shall rise up before the hoary head and honor the face of the old man and [reverently] fear your God. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:33 And if a stranger dwells temporarily with you in your land, you shall not suppress and mistreat him." 
Leviticus19:34 But the stranger who dwells with you shall be to you as one born among you; and you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:35 You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length or weight or quantity." 
Leviticus19:36 You shall have accurate and just balances, just weights, just ephah and hin measures. I am the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt." 
Leviticus19:37 You shall observe all My statutes and ordinances and do them. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus20:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus20:2 Moreover, you shall say to the Israelites, Any one of the Israelites or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel who gives any of his children to Molech [the fire god worshiped with human sacrifices] shall surely be put to death; the people of the land shall stone him with stones." 
Leviticus20:3 I also will set My face against that man [opposing him, withdrawing My protection from him, and excluding him from My covenant] and will cut him off from among his people, because he has given of his children to Molech, defiling My sanctuary and profaning My holy name." 
Leviticus20:4 And if the people of the land do at all hide their eyes from the man when he gives one of his children [as a burnt offering] to Molech [the fire god] and they overlook it or neglect to take legal action to punish him, winking at his sin, and do not kill him [as My law requires]," 
Leviticus20:5 Then I will set My face against that man and against his family and will cut him off from among their people, him and all who follow him to [unfaithfulness to Me, and thus] play the harlot after Molech." 
Leviticus20:6 The person who turns to those who have familiar spirits and to wizards, [being unfaithful to Israel's Maker Who is her Husband, and thus] playing the harlot after them, I will set My face against that person and will cut him off from among his people [that he may not be included in the atonement made for them]. [Isa. 54:5.]" 
Leviticus20:7 Consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus20:8 And you shall keep My statutes and do them. I am the Lord Who sanctifies you. 
Leviticus20:9 Everyone who curses his father or mother shall surely be put to death; he has cursed his father or mother; his bloodguilt is upon him. 
Leviticus20:10 The man who commits adultery with another's wife, even his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. [John 8:4-11.]" 
Leviticus20:11 And the man who lies carnally with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness; both of the guilty ones shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon their own heads. 
Leviticus20:12 And if a man lies carnally with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death; they have wrought confusion, perversion, and defilement; their blood shall be upon their own heads." 
Leviticus20:13 If a man lies with a male as if he were a woman, both men have committed an offense (something perverse, unnatural, abhorrent, and detestable); they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them." 
Leviticus20:14 And if a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness and an outrageous offense; all three shall be burned with fire, both he and they [after being stoned to death], that there be no wickedness among you. [Josh. 7:15, 25.]" 
Leviticus20:15 And if a man lies carnally with a beast, he shall surely be [stoned] to death, and you shall slay the beast." 
Leviticus20:16 If a woman approaches any beast and lies carnally with it, you shall [stone] the woman and the beast; they shall surely be put to death; their blood is upon them." 
Leviticus20:17 If a man takes his sister, his father's or his mother's daughter, and sees her nakedness and she sees his nakedness, it is a wicked and shameful thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of their people; he has had sexual relations with his sister; he shall bear his iniquity." 
Leviticus20:18 And if a man shall lie with a woman having her menstrual pains and shall uncover her nakedness, he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood; and both of them shall be cut off from among their people." 
Leviticus20:19 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister or of your father's sister, for that is to make naked his close kin; they shall bear their iniquity." 
Leviticus20:20 And if a man shall lie carnally with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness; they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless [not literally, but in a legal sense]." 
Leviticus20:21 And if a man shall take his brother's wife, it is impurity; he has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless [not literally, but in a legal sense]." 
Leviticus20:22 You shall therefore keep all My statutes and all My ordinances and do them, that the land where I am bringing you to dwell may not vomit you out [as it did those before you]. [Lev. 18:28.]" 
Leviticus20:23 You shall not walk in the customs of the nation which I am casting out before you; for they did all these things, and therefore I was wearied and grieved by them." 
Leviticus20:24 But I have said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God, Who has separated you from the peoples." 
Leviticus20:25 You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean beast and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean; and you shall not make yourselves detestable with beast or with bird or with anything with which the ground teems or that creeps, which I have set apart from you as unclean." 
Leviticus20:26 And you shall be holy to Me; for I the Lord am holy, and have separated you from the peoples, that you should be Mine." 
Leviticus20:27 A man or woman who is a medium and has a familiar spirit or is a wizard shall surely be put to death, be stoned with stones; their blood shall be upon them." 
Leviticus21:1 THE LORD said to Moses, Speak to the priests [exclusive of the high priest], the sons of Aaron, and say to them that none of them shall defile himself for the dead among his people [by touching a corpse or assisting in preparing it for burial]," 
Leviticus21:2 Except for his near [blood] kin, for his mother, father, son, daughter, brother," 
Leviticus21:3 And for his sister, a virgin, who is near to him because she has had no husband; for her he may be defiled." 
Leviticus21:4 He shall not even defile himself, being a [bereaved] husband [his wife not being his blood kin] or being a chief man among his people, and so profane himself." 
Leviticus21:5 The priests [like the other Israelite men] shall not shave the crown of their heads or clip off the corners of their beard or make any cuttings in their flesh. 
Leviticus21:6 They shall be holy to their God and not profane the name of their God; for they offer the offerings made by fire to the Lord, the bread of their God; therefore they shall be holy." 
Leviticus21:7 They shall not take a wife who is a harlot or polluted or profane or divorced, for [the priest] is holy to his God." 
Leviticus21:8 You shall consecrate him therefore, for he offers the bread of your God; he shall be holy to you, for I the Lord Who sanctifies you am holy." 
Leviticus21:9 The daughter of any priest who profanes herself by playing the harlot profanes her father; she shall be burned with fire [after being stoned]. [Josh. 7:15, 25.]" 
Leviticus21:10 But he who is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose head the anointing oil was poured and who is consecrated to put on the [sacred] garments, shall not let the hair of his head hang loose or rend his clothes [in mourning]," 
Leviticus21:11 Neither shall he go in where any dead body lies nor defile himself [by doing so, even] for his father or for his mother;" 
Leviticus21:12 Neither shall he go out of the sanctuary nor desecrate or make ceremonially unclean the sanctuary of his God, for the crown or consecration of the anointing oil of his God is upon him. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus21:13 He shall take a wife in her virginity. 
Leviticus21:14 A widow or a divorced woman or a woman who is polluted or profane or a harlot, these he shall not marry, but he shall take as his wife a virgin of his own people, [I Tim. 3:2-7; Tit. 1:7-9.]" 
Leviticus21:15 That he may not profane or dishonor his children among his people; for I the Lord do sanctify the high priest. 
Leviticus21:16 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus21:17 Say to Aaron, Any one of your sons in their successive generations who has any blemish, let him not come near to offer the bread of his God." 
Leviticus21:18 For no man who has a blemish shall approach [God's altar to serve as priest], a man blind or lame, or he who has a disfigured face or a limb too long," 
Leviticus21:19 Or who has a fractured foot or hand," 
Leviticus21:20 Or is a hunchback, or a dwarf, or has a defect in his eye, or has scurvy or itch, or scabs or skin trouble, or has damaged testicles." 
Leviticus21:21 No man of the offspring of Aaron the priest who has a blemish and is disfigured or deformed shall come near [the altar] to offer the offerings of the Lord made by fire. He has a blemish; he shall not come near to offer the bread of his God. 
Leviticus21:22 He may eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy and of the holy things," 
Leviticus21:23 But he shall not come within the veil or come near the altar [of incense], because he has a blemish, that he may not desecrate and make unclean My sanctuaries and hallowed things; for I the Lord do sanctify them. [Heb. 7:28.]" 
Leviticus21:24 And Moses told it to Aaron and to his sons and to all the Israelites. 
Leviticus22:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus22:2 Say to Aaron and his sons that they shall stay away from the holy things which the Israelites dedicate to Me, that they may not profane My holy name; I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:3 Tell them, Any one of your offspring throughout your generations who goes to the holy things which the Israelites dedicate to the Lord when he is unclean, that [priest] shall be cut off from My presence and excluded from the sanctuary; I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:4 No man of the offspring of Aaron who is a leper or has a discharge shall eat of the holy things [the offerings and the showbread] until he is clean. And whoever touches any person or thing made unclean by contact with a corpse or a man who has had a discharge of semen," 
Leviticus22:5 Or whoever touches any dead creeping thing by which he may be made unclean, or a man from whom he may acquire uncleanness, whatever it may be, [Lev. 11:24-28.]" 
Leviticus22:6 The priest who has touched any such thing shall be unclean until evening and shall not eat of the holy things unless he has bathed with water. [Heb. 10:22.] 
Leviticus22:7 When the sun is down, he shall be clean, and afterward may eat of the holy things, for they are his food." 
Leviticus22:8 That which dies of itself or is torn by beasts he shall not eat, defiling himself with it. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:9 The priests therefore shall observe My ordinance, lest they bear sin for it and die thereby if they profane it. I am the Lord, Who sanctifies them." 
Leviticus22:10 No outsider [not of the family of Aaron] shall eat of the holy thing [which has been offered to God]; a sojourner with the priest or a hired servant shall not eat of the holy thing. 
Leviticus22:11 But if a priest buys a slave with his money, the slave may eat of the holy thing, and he also who is born in the priest's house; they may eat of his food." 
Leviticus22:12 If a priest's daughter is married to an outsider [not of the priestly tribe], she shall not eat of the offering of the holy things." 
Leviticus22:13 But if a priest's daughter is a widow or divorced, and has no child, and returns to her father's house as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's food; but no stranger shall eat of it." 
Leviticus22:14 And if a man eats unknowingly of the holy thing [which has been offered to God], then he shall add one-fifth of its value to it and repay that amount to the priest for the holy thing." 
Leviticus22:15 The priests shall not profane the holy things the Israelites offer to the Lord," 
Leviticus22:16 And so cause them [by neglect of any essential observance] to bear the iniquity when they eat their holy things; for I the Lord sanctify them. 
Leviticus22:17 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus22:18 Say to Aaron and his sons and to all the Israelites, Whoever of the house of Israel and of the foreigners in Israel brings his offering, whether to pay a vow or as a freewill offering which is offered to the Lord for a burnt offering" 
Leviticus22:19 That you may be accepted, you shall offer a male without blemish of the young bulls, the sheep, or the goats." 
Leviticus22:20 But you shall not offer anything which has a blemish, for it will not be acceptable for you. [I Pet. 1:19.]" 
Leviticus22:21 And whoever offers a sacrifice of peace offering to the Lord to make a special vow to the Lord or for a freewill offering from the herd or from the flock must bring what is perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish in it. 
Leviticus22:22 Animals blind or made infirm and weak or maimed, or having sores or a wen or an itch or scabs, you shall not offer to the Lord or make an offering of them by fire upon the altar to the Lord." 
Leviticus22:23 For a freewill offering you may offer either a bull or a lamb which has some part too long or too short, but for [the payment of] a vow it shall not be accepted." 
Leviticus22:24 You shall not offer to the Lord any animal which has its testicles bruised or crushed or broken or cut, neither sacrifice it in your land." 
Leviticus22:25 Neither shall you offer as the bread of your God any such animals obtained from a foreigner [who may wish to pay respect to the true God], because their defects render them unfit; there is a blemish in them; they will not be accepted for you." 
Leviticus22:26 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus22:27 When a bull or a sheep or a goat is born, it shall remain for seven days with its mother; and from the eighth day on it shall be accepted for an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus22:28 And whether [the mother] is a cow or a ewe, you shall not kill her and her young both in one day." 
Leviticus22:29 And when you sacrifice an offering of thanksgiving to the Lord, sacrifice it so that you may be accepted." 
Leviticus22:30 It shall be eaten on the same day; you shall leave none of it until the next day. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:31 So shall you heartily accept My commandments and conform your life and conduct to them. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:32 Neither shall you profane My holy name [applying it to an idol, or treating it with irreverence or contempt or as a byword]; but I will be hallowed among the Israelites. I am the Lord, Who consecrates and makes you holy," 
Leviticus22:33 Who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus23:1 THE LORD said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:2 Say to the Israelites, The set feasts or appointed seasons of the Lord which you shall proclaim as holy convocations, even My set feasts, are these:" 
Leviticus23:3 Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of rest, a holy convocation or assembly by summons. You shall do no work on that day; it is the Sabbath of the Lord in all your dwellings." 
Leviticus23:4 These are the set feasts or appointed seasons of the Lord, holy convocations you shall proclaim at their stated times:" 
Leviticus23:5 On the fourteenth day of the first month at twilight is the Lord's Passover. 
Leviticus23:6 On the fifteenth day of the same month is the Feast of Unleavened Bread to the Lord; for seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. [I Cor. 5:7, 8.]" 
Leviticus23:7 On the first day you shall have a holy``calling together; you shall do no servile or laborious work on that day. 
Leviticus23:8 But you shall offer an offering made by fire to the Lord for seven days; on the seventh day is a holy convocation; you shall do no servile or laborious work on that day. 
Leviticus23:9 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:10 Tell the Israelites, When you have come into the land I give you and reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest." 
Leviticus23:11 And he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord, that you may be accepted; on the next day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it [before the Lord]." 
Leviticus23:12 You shall offer on the day when you wave the sheaf a male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to the Lord. 
Leviticus23:13 Its cereal offering shall be two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, an offering made by fire to the Lord for a sweet, pleasing, and satisfying fragrance; and the drink offering of it [to be poured out] shall be of wine, a fourth of a hin." 
Leviticus23:14 And you shall eat neither bread nor parched grain nor green ears, until this same day when you have brought the offering of your God; it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your houses." 
Leviticus23:15 And you shall count from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering, seven Sabbaths; [seven full weeks] shall they be." 
Leviticus23:16 Count fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath; then you shall present a cereal offering of new grain to the Lord. 
Leviticus23:17 You shall bring from your dwellings two loaves of bread to be waved, made from two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour; they shall be baked with leaven, for firstfruits to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:18 And you shall offer with the bread seven lambs, a year old and without blemish, and one young bull and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to the Lord, with their cereal offering and their drink offerings, an offering made by fire, of a sweet and satisfying fragrance to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:19 Then you shall sacrifice one he-goat for a sin offering and two he-lambs, a year old, for a sacrifice of peace offering." 
Leviticus23:20 The priest shall wave the two lambs, together with the bread of the firstfruits, for a wave offering before the Lord. They shall be holy to the Lord for the priest." 
Leviticus23:21 You shall make proclamation the same day, summoning a holy assembly; you shall do no servile work that day. It shall be a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations." 
Leviticus23:22 And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest; you shall leave them for the poor and the stranger. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus23:23 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:24 Say to the Israelites, On the first day of the seventh month [almost October], you shall observe a day of solemn [sabbatical] rest, a memorial day announced by blowing of trumpets, a holy [called] assembly." 
Leviticus23:25 You shall do no servile work on it, but you shall present an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:26 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:27 Also the tenth day of this seventh month is the Day of Atonement; it shall be a holy [called] assembly, and you shall afflict yourselves [by fasting in penitence and humility] and present an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:28 And you shall do no work on this day, for it is the Day of Atonement, to make atonement for you before the Lord your God." 
Leviticus23:29 For whoever is not afflicted [by fasting in penitence and humility] on this day shall be cut off from among his people [that he may not be included in the atonement made for them]. 
Leviticus23:30 And whoever does any work on that same day I will destroy from among his people. 
Leviticus23:31 You shall do no kind of work [on that day]. It is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
Leviticus23:32 It shall be to you a sabbath of rest, and you shall afflict yourselves [by fasting in penitence and humility]. On the ninth day of the month from evening to evening you shall keep your sabbath." 
Leviticus23:33 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus23:34 Say to the Israelites, The fifteenth day of this seventh month, and for seven days, is the Feast of Tabernacles or Booths to the Lord." 
Leviticus23:35 On the first day shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work on that day. 
Leviticus23:36 For seven days you shall offer an offering made by fire to the Lord; on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation and you shall present an offering made by fire to the Lord. It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no laborious work on that day. 
Leviticus23:37 These are the set feasts or appointed seasons of the Lord, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to present an offering made by fire to the Lord, a burnt offering and a cereal offering, sacrifices and drink offerings, each on its own day." 
Leviticus23:38 This is in addition to the Sabbaths of the Lord and besides your gifts and all your vowed offerings and all your freewill offerings which you give to the Lord. 
Leviticus23:39 Also on the fifteenth day of the seventh month [nearly October], when you have gathered in the fruit of the land, you shall keep the feast of the Lord for seven days, the first day and the eighth day each a Sabbath." 
Leviticus23:40 And on the first day you shall take the fruit of pleasing trees [and make booths of them], branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick (leafy) trees, and willows of the brook; and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days." 
Leviticus23:41 You shall keep it as a feast to the Lord for seven days in the year, a statute forever throughout your generations; you shall keep it in the seventh month." 
Leviticus23:42 You shall dwell in booths (shelters) for seven days: All native Israelites shall dwell in booths," 
Leviticus23:43 That your generations may know that I made the Israelites dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus23:44 Thus Moses declared to the Israelites the set or appointed feasts of the Lord. 
Leviticus24:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus24:2 Command the Israelites that they bring to you pure oil from beaten olives for the light [of the golden lampstand] to cause a lamp to burn continually. 
Leviticus24:3 Outside the veil of the Testimony [between the Holy and the Most Holy Places] in the Tent of Meeting, Aaron shall keep it in order from evening to morning before the Lord continually; it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations." 
Leviticus24:4 He shall keep the lamps in order upon the lampstand of pure gold before the Lord continually. [Rev. 1:12-18.] 
Leviticus24:5 And you shall take fine flour and bake twelve cakes with it; two-tenths of an ephah shall be in each cake [of the showbread or bread of the Presence]. 
Leviticus24:6 And you shall set them in two rows, six in a row, upon the table of pure gold before the Lord." 
Leviticus24:7 You shall put pure frankincense [in a bowl or spoon] beside each row, that it may be with the bread as a memorial portion, an offering to be made by fire to the Lord." 
Leviticus24:8 Every Sabbath day Aaron shall set the showbread in order before the Lord continually; it is on behalf of the Israelites, an everlasting covenant." 
Leviticus24:9 And the bread shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in a sacred place, for it is for [Aaron] a most holy portion of the offerings to the Lord made by fire, a perpetual due [to the high priest]." 
Leviticus24:10 Now the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the Israelites, and he and a man of Israel quarreled and strove together in the camp." 
Leviticus24:11 The Israelite woman's son blasphemed the Name [of the Lord] and cursed. They brought him to Moses,his mother was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan." 
Leviticus24:12 And they put him in custody until the will of the Lord might be declared to them. 
Leviticus24:13 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus24:14 Bring him who has cursed out of the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands upon his head; then let all the congregation stone him." 
Leviticus24:15 And you shall say to the Israelites, Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin." 
Leviticus24:16 And he who blasphemes the Name of the Lord, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him; the stranger as well as he who was born in the land shall be put to death when he blasphemes the Name [of the Lord]." 
Leviticus24:17 And he who kills any man shall surely be put to death. 
Leviticus24:18 And he who kills a beast shall make it good, beast for beast." 
Leviticus24:19 And if a man causes a blemish or disfigurement on his neighbor, it shall be done to him as he has done:" 
Leviticus24:20 Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has caused a blemish or disfigurement on a man, so shall it be done to him. [Matt. 5:38-42; 7:2.]" 
Leviticus24:21 He who kills a beast shall replace it; he who kills a man shall be put to death. 
Leviticus24:22 You shall have the same law for the sojourner among you as for one of your own nationality, for I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus24:23 Moses spoke to the Israelites, and they brought him who had cursed out of the camp and stoned him with stones. Thus the Israelites did as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Leviticus25:1 THE LORD said to Moses on Mount Sinai," 
Leviticus25:2 Say to the Israelites, When you come into the land which I give you, then shall the land keep a sabbath to the Lord." 
Leviticus25:3 For six years you shall sow your field, and for six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in its fruits." 
Leviticus25:4 But in the seventh year there shall be a sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a sabbath to the Lord; you shall neither sow your field nor prune your vineyard." 
Leviticus25:5 What grows of itself in your harvest you shall not reap and the grapes on your uncultivated vine you shall not gather, for it is a year of rest to the land." 
Leviticus25:6 And the sabbath rest of the [untilled] land shall [in its increase] furnish food for you, for your male and female slaves, your hired servant, and the temporary resident who lives with you," 
Leviticus25:7 For your domestic animals also and for the [wild] beasts in your land; all its yield shall be for food. 
Leviticus25:8 And you shall number seven sabbaths or weeks of years for you, seven times seven years, so the total time of the seven weeks of years shall be forty-nine years." 
Leviticus25:9 Then you shall sound abroad the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month [almost October]; on the Day of Atonement blow the trumpet in all your land. 
Leviticus25:10 And you shall hallow the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you; and each of you shall return to his ancestral possession [which through poverty he was compelled to sell], and each of you shall return to his family [from whom he was separated in bond service]." 
Leviticus25:11 That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you; in it you shall not sow, or reap and store what grows of itself, or gather the grapes of the uncultivated vines." 
Leviticus25:12 For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy to you; you shall eat the [sufficient] increase of it out of the field. 
Leviticus25:13 In this Year of Jubilee each of you shall return to his ancestral property. 
Leviticus25:14 And if you sell anything to your neighbor or buy from your neighbor, you shall not wrong one another." 
Leviticus25:15 According to the number of years after the Jubilee, you shall buy from your neighbor. And he shall sell to you according to the number of years [remaining in which you may gather] the crops [before you must restore the property to him]." 
Leviticus25:16 If the years [to the next Jubilee] are many, you may increase the price, and if the years remaining are few, you shall diminish the price, for the number of the crops is what he is selling to you." 
Leviticus25:17 You shall not oppress and wrong one another, but you shall [reverently] fear your God. For I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus25:18 Therefore you shall do and give effect to My statutes and keep My ordinances and perform them, and you will dwell in the land in safety." 
Leviticus25:19 The land shall yield its fruit; you shall eat your fill and dwell there in safety. 
Leviticus25:20 And if you say, What shall we eat in the seventh year if we are not to sow or gather in our increase?" 
Leviticus25:21 Then [this is My answer:] I will command My [special] blessings on you in the sixth year, so that it shall bring forth [sufficient] fruit for three years." 
Leviticus25:22 And you shall sow in the eighth year, but eat of the old store of produce; until the crops of the ninth year come in you shall eat of the old supply." 
Leviticus25:23 The land shall not be sold into perpetual ownership, for the land is Mine; you are [only] strangers and temporary residents with Me. [Heb. 11:13; I Pet. 2:11-17.]" 
Leviticus25:24 And in all the country you possess you shall grant a redemption for the land [in the Year of Jubilee]. 
Leviticus25:25 If your brother has become poor and has sold some of his property, if any of his kin comes to redeem it, he shall [be allowed to] redeem what his brother has sold." 
Leviticus25:26 And if the man has no one to redeem his property, and he himself has become more prosperous and has enough to redeem it," 
Leviticus25:27 Then let him count the years since he sold it and restore the overpayment to the man to whom he sold it, and return to his ancestral possession. [I Kings 21:2, 3.]" 
Leviticus25:28 But if he is unable to redeem it, it shall remain in the buyer's possession until the Year of Jubilee, when it shall be set free and he may return to it." 
Leviticus25:29 If a man sells a dwelling house in a fortified city, he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; for a full year he may have the right of redemption." 
Leviticus25:30 And if it is not redeemed within a full year, then the house that is in the fortified city shall be made sure, permanently and without limitations, for him who bought it, throughout his generations. It shall not go free in the Year of Jubilee." 
Leviticus25:31 But the houses of the unwalled villages shall be counted with the fields of the country. They may be redeemed, and they shall go free in the Year of Jubilee." 
Leviticus25:32 Nevertheless, the cities of the Levites, the houses in the cities of their possession, the Levites may redeem at any time." 
Leviticus25:33 But if a house is not redeemed by a Levite, the sold house in the city they possess shall go free in the Year of Jubilee, for the houses in the Levite cities are their ancestral possession among the Israelites." 
Leviticus25:34 But the field of unenclosed or pasture lands of their cities may not be sold; it is their perpetual possession. 
Leviticus25:35 And if your [Israelite] brother has become poor and his hand wavers [from poverty, sickness, or age and he is unable to support himself], then you shall uphold (strengthen, relieve) him, [treating him with the courtesy and consideration that you would] a stranger or a temporary resident with you [without property], so that he may live [along] with you. [I John 3:17.]" 
Leviticus25:36 Charge him no interest or [portion of] increase, but fear your God, so your brother may [continue to] live along with you." 
Leviticus25:37 You shall not give him your money at interest nor lend him food at a profit. 
Leviticus25:38 I am the Lord your God, Who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God." 
Leviticus25:39 And if your brother becomes poor beside you and sells himself to you, you shall not compel him to serve as a bondman (a slave not eligible for redemption)," 
Leviticus25:40 But as a hired servant and as a temporary resident he shall be with you; he shall serve you till the Year of Jubilee," 
Leviticus25:41 And then he shall depart from you, he and his children with him, and shall go back to his own family and return to the possession of his fathers." 
Leviticus25:42 For the Israelites are My servants; I brought them out of the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold as bondmen. [I Cor. 7:23.] 
Leviticus25:43 You shall not rule over him with harshness (severity, oppression), but you shall [reverently] fear your God. [Eph. 6:9; Col. 4:1.]" 
Leviticus25:44 As for your bondmen and your bondmaids whom you may have, they shall be from the nations round about you, of whom you may buy bondmen and bondmaids." 
Leviticus25:45 Moreover, of the children of the strangers who sojourn among you, of them you may buy and of their families that are with you which they have begotten in your land, and they shall be your possession." 
Leviticus25:46 And you shall make them an inheritance for your children after you, to hold for a possession; of them shall you take your bondmen always, but over your brethren the Israelites you shall not rule one over another with harshness (severity, oppression)." 
Leviticus25:47 And if a sojourner or stranger with you becomes rich and your [Israelite] brother becomes poor beside him and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner with you or to a member of the stranger's family," 
Leviticus25:48 After he is sold he may be redeemed. One of his brethren may redeem him: 
Leviticus25:49 Either his uncle or his uncle's son may redeem him, or a near kinsman may redeem him; or if he has enough and is able, he may redeem himself." 
Leviticus25:50 And [the redeemer] shall reckon with the purchaser of the servant from the year when he sold himself to the purchaser to the Year of Jubilee, and the price of his release shall be adjusted according to the number of years. The time he was with his owner shall be counted as that of a hired servant." 
Leviticus25:51 If there remain many years [before the Year of Jubilee], in proportion to them he must refund [to the purchaser] for his release [the overpayment] for his acquisition." 
Leviticus25:52 And if little time remains until the Year of Jubilee, he shall count it over with him and he shall refund the proportionate amount for his release." 
Leviticus25:53 And as a servant hired year by year shall he deal with him; he shall not rule over him with harshness (severity, oppression) in your sight [make sure of that]." 
Leviticus25:54 And if he is not redeemed during these years and by these means, then he shall go free in the Year of Jubilee, he and his children with him." 
Leviticus25:55 For to Me the Israelites are servants, My servants, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus26:1 YOU SHALL make for yourselves no idols nor shall you erect a graven image, pillar, or obelisk, nor shall you place any figured stone in your land to which or on which to bow down; for I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus26:2 You shall keep My Sabbaths and reverence My sanctuary. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus26:3 If you walk in My statutes and keep My commandments and do them," 
Leviticus26:4 I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase and the trees of the field yield their fruit." 
Leviticus26:5 And your threshing [time] shall reach to the vintage and the vintage [time] shall reach to the sowing time, and you shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land securely." 
Leviticus26:6 I will give peace in the land; you shall lie down and none shall fill you with dread or make you afraid; and I will clear ferocious (wild) beasts out of the land, and no sword shall go through your land." 
Leviticus26:7 And you shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword." 
Leviticus26:8 Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall put ten thousand to flight; your enemies shall fall before you by the sword." 
Leviticus26:9 For I will be leaning toward you with favor and regard for you, rendering you fruitful, multiplying you, and establishing and ratifying My covenant with you. [II Kings 13:23.]" 
Leviticus26:10 And you shall eat the [abundant] old store of produce long kept, and clear out the old [to make room] for the new." 
Leviticus26:11 I will set My dwelling in and among you, and My soul shall not despise or reject or separate itself from you." 
Leviticus26:12 And I will walk in and with and among you and will be your God, and you shall be My people." 
Leviticus26:13 I am the Lord your God, Who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that you should no more be slaves; and I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you walk erect [as free men]." 
Leviticus26:14 But if you will not hearken to Me and will not do all these commandments," 
Leviticus26:15 And if you spurn and despise My statutes, and if your soul despises and rejects My ordinances, so that you will not do all My commandments, but break My covenant," 
Leviticus26:16 I will do this: I will appoint over you [sudden] terror (trembling, trouble), even consumption and fever that consume and waste the eyes and make the [physical] life pine away. You shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it." 
Leviticus26:17 I [the Lord] will set My face against you and you shall be defeated and slain before your enemies; they who hate you shall rule over you; you shall flee when no one pursues you. [I Sam. 4:10; 31:1.] 
Leviticus26:18 And if in spite of all this you still will not listen and be obedient to Me, then I will chastise and discipline you seven times more for your sins." 
Leviticus26:19 And I will break and humble your pride in your power, and I will make your heavens as iron [yielding no answer, no blessing, no rain] and your earth [as sterile] as brass. [I Kings 17:1.]" 
Leviticus26:20 And your strength shall be spent in vain, for your land shall not yield its increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruit." 
Leviticus26:21 If you walk contrary to Me and will not heed Me, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you, according to your sins." 
Leviticus26:22 I will loose the wild beasts of the field among you, which shall rob you of your children, destroy your livestock, and make you few so that your roads shall be deserted and desolate. [II Kings 17:25, 26.]" 
Leviticus26:23 If by these means you are not turned to Me but determine to walk contrary to Me," 
Leviticus26:24 I also will walk contrary to you, and I will smite you seven times for your sins." 
Leviticus26:25 And I will bring a sword upon you that shall execute the vengeance [for the breaking] of My covenant; and you shall be gathered together within your cities, and I will send the pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the hands of the enemy. [Num. 16:49; II Sam. 24:15.]" 
Leviticus26:26 When I break your staff of bread and cut off your supply of food, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall ration your bread and deliver it again by weight; and you shall eat, and not be satisfied. [Hag. 1:6.]" 
Leviticus26:27 And if in spite of all this you will not listen and give heed to Me but walk contrary to Me," 
Leviticus26:28 Then I will walk contrary to you in wrath, and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins." 
Leviticus26:29 You shall eat the flesh of your sons and of your daughters. [II Kings 6:28, 29.]" 
Leviticus26:30 And I will destroy your high places [devoted to idolatrous worship], and cut down your sun-images, and throw your dead bodies upon the [wrecked] bodies of your idols, and My soul shall abhor you [with deep and unutterable loathing]. [II Kings 23:8, 20.]" 
Leviticus26:31 I will lay your cities waste, bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I will not smell the fragrance of your sweet and soothing odors [of offerings made by fire]. [II Kings 25:4-10; II Chron. 36:19.]" 
Leviticus26:32 And I will bring the land into desolation, and your enemies who dwell in it shall be astonished at it." 
Leviticus26:33 I will scatter you among the nations and draw out [your enemies'] sword after you; and your land shall be desolate and your cities a waste. [Ps. 44:11-14.] 
Leviticus26:34 Then shall the land [of Israel have the opportunity to] enjoy its sabbaths as long as it lies desolate and you are in your enemies' land; then shall the land rest, to enjoy and receive payments for its sabbaths [divinely ordained for it]." 
Leviticus26:35 As long as it lies desolate and waste, it shall have rest, the rest it did not have in your sabbaths when you dwelt upon it. [II Chron. 36:21.]" 
Leviticus26:36 As for those who are left of you, I will send dejection (lack of courage, a faintness) into their hearts in the lands of their enemies; the sound of a driven leaf shall put them to hasty and tumultuous flight, and they shall flee as if from the sword, and fall when no one pursues them." 
Leviticus26:37 They shall stumble over one another as if to escape a sword when no one pursues them; and you shall have no power to stand before your enemies. 
Leviticus26:38 You shall perish among the nations; the land of your enemies shall eat you up. 
Leviticus26:39 And those of you who are left shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies' lands; also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away like them. 
Leviticus26:40 But if they confess their own and their fathers' iniquity in their treachery which they committed against Me,and also that because they walked contrary to Me 
Leviticus26:41 I also walked contrary to them and brought them into the land of their enemies,if then their uncircumcised hearts are humbled and they then accept the punishment for their iniquity, [II Kings 24:10-14; Dan. 9:11-14.]" 
Leviticus26:42 Then will I [earnestly] remember My covenant with Jacob, My covenant with Isaac, and My covenant with Abraham, and [earnestly] remember the land. [Ps. 106:44-46.]" 
Leviticus26:43 But the land shall be left behind them and shall enjoy its sabbaths while it lies desolate without them; and they shall accept the punishment for their sins and make amends because they despised and rejected My ordinances and their soul scorned and rejected My statutes. 
Leviticus26:44 And yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not spurn and cast them away, neither will I despise and abhor them to destroy them utterly and to break My covenant with them, for I am the Lord their God. [Deut. 4:31-35; Jer. 33:4, 5, 23-26; Rom. 11:2-5.]" 
Leviticus26:45 But I will for their sake [earnestly] remember the covenant with their forefathers whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus26:46 These are the statutes, ordinances, and laws which the Lord made between Him and the Israelites on Mount Sinai through Moses." 
Leviticus27:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Leviticus27:2 Say to the Israelites, When a man shall make a special vow of persons to the Lord at your valuation," 
Leviticus27:3 Then your valuation of a male from twenty years old to sixty years old shall be fifty shekels of silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary." 
Leviticus27:4 And if the person is a female, your valuation shall be thirty shekels." 
Leviticus27:5 And if the person is from five years old up to twenty years old, then your valuation shall be for the male twenty shekels and for the female ten shekels." 
Leviticus27:6 And if a child is from a month up to five years old, then your valuation shall be for the male five shekels of silver and for the female three shekels." 
Leviticus27:7 And if the person is from sixty years old and above, if it be a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels and for the female ten shekels." 
Leviticus27:8 But if the man is too poor to pay your valuation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the ability of him who vowed shall the priest value him." 
Leviticus27:9 If it is a beast of which men offer an offering to the Lord, all that any man gives of such to the Lord shall be holy." 
Leviticus27:10 He shall not replace it or exchange it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good; and if he makes any exchange of a beast for a beast, then both the original offering and that exchanged for it shall be holy." 
Leviticus27:11 If it is an unclean animal, such as is not offered as an offering to the Lord, he shall bring the animal before the priest," 
Leviticus27:12 And the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad; as you, the priest, value it, so shall it be." 
Leviticus27:13 But if he wishes to redeem it, he shall add a fifth to your valuation." 
Leviticus27:14 If a man dedicates his house to be sacred to the Lord, the priest shall appraise it, whether it be good or bad; as the priest appraises it, so shall it stand." 
Leviticus27:15 If he who dedicates his house wants to redeem it, he shall add a fifth of your valuation to it, and it shall be his." 
Leviticus27:16 And if a man shall dedicate to the Lord some part of a field of his possession, then your valuation shall be according to the seed [required] for it; [a sowing of] a homer of barley shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver." 
Leviticus27:17 If he dedicates his field during the Year of Jubilee, it shall stand according to your full valuation." 
Leviticus27:18 But if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, then the priest shall count the money value in proportion to the years that remain until the Year of Jubilee, and it shall be deducted from your valuation." 
Leviticus27:19 If he who dedicates the field wishes to redeem it, then he shall add a fifth of the money of your appraisal to it, and it shall remain his." 
Leviticus27:20 But if he does not want to redeem the field, or if he has sold it to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more." 
Leviticus27:21 But the field, when it is released in the Jubilee, shall be holy to the Lord, as a field devoted [to God or destruction]; the priest shall have possession of it." 
Leviticus27:22 And if a man dedicates to the Lord a field he has bought, which is not of the fields of his [ancestral] possession," 
Leviticus27:23 The priest shall compute the amount of your valuation for it up to the Year of Jubilee; the man shall give that amount on that day as a holy thing to the Lord. 
Leviticus27:24 In the Year of Jubilee the field shall return to him of whom it was bought, to him to whom the land belonged [as his ancestral inheritance]." 
Leviticus27:25 And all your valuations shall be according to the sanctuary shekel; twenty gerahs shall make a shekel. 
Leviticus27:26 But the firstling of the animals, since a firstling belongs to the Lord, no man may dedicate, whether it be ox or sheep. It is the Lord's [already]." 
Leviticus27:27 If it be of an unclean animal, the owner may redeem it according to your valuation, and shall add a fifth to it; or if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation." 
Leviticus27:28 But nothing that a man shall devote to the Lord of all that he has, whether of man or beast or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed; every devoted thing is most holy to the Lord." 
Leviticus27:29 No one doomed to death [under the claim of divine justice], who is to be completely destroyed from among men, shall be ransomed [from suffering the death penalty]; he shall surely be put to death." 
Leviticus27:30 And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord's; it is holy to the Lord. [I Cor. 9:11; Gal. 6:6.]" 
Leviticus27:31 And if a man wants to redeem any of his tithe, he shall add a fifth to it." 
Leviticus27:32 And all the tithe of the herd or of the flock, whatever passes under the herdsman's staff [by means of which each tenth animal as it passes through a small door is selected and marked], the tenth shall be holy to the Lord. [II Cor. 9:7-9.]" 
Leviticus27:33 The man shall not examine whether the animal is good or bad nor shall he exchange it. If he does exchange it, then both it and the animal substituted for it shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed." 
Leviticus27:34 These are the commandments which the Lord commanded Moses on Mount Sinai for the Israelites. [Rom. 10:4; Heb. 4:2; 12:18-29.] 
Numbers1:1 THE LORD spoke to Moses in the Wilderness of Sinai in the Tent of Meeting on the first day of the second month in the second year after they came out of the land of Egypt, saying," 
Numbers1:2 Take a census of all the males of the congregation of the Israelites by families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, head by head." 
Numbers1:3 From twenty years old and upward, all in Israel who are able to go forth to war you and Aaron shall number, company by company." 
Numbers1:4 And with you there shall be a man [to assist you] from each tribe, each being the head of his father's house." 
Numbers1:5 And these are the names of the men who shall attend you: Of Reuben, Elizur son of Shedeur;" 
Numbers1:6 Of Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai;" 
Numbers1:7 Of Judah, Nahshon son of Amminadab;" 
Numbers1:8 Of Issachar, Nethanel son of Zuar;" 
Numbers1:9 Of Zebulun, Eliab son of Helon;" 
Numbers1:10 Of the sons of Joseph: of Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud; of Manasseh, Gamaliel son of Pedahzur;" 
Numbers1:11 Of Benjamin, Abidan son of Gideoni;" 
Numbers1:12 Of Dan, Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai;" 
Numbers1:13 Of Asher, Pagiel son of Ochran;" 
Numbers1:14 Of Gad, Eliasaph son of Deuel;" 
Numbers1:15 Of Naphtali, Ahira son of Enan." 
Numbers1:16 These were those chosen from the congregation, the leaders of their ancestral tribes, heads of thousands [the highest class of officers] in Israel." 
Numbers1:17 And Moses and Aaron took these men who have been named," 
Numbers1:18 And assembled all the congregation on the first day of the second month, and they declared their ancestry after their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names from twenty years old and upward, head by head," 
Numbers1:19 As the Lord commanded Moses. So he numbered them in the Wilderness of Sinai. 
Numbers1:20 The sons of Reuben, Israel's firstborn, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:21 Those of the tribe of Reuben numbered 46,500." 
Numbers1:22 Of the sons of Simeon, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, those numbered of them according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:23 Those of the tribe of Simeon numbered 59,300." 
Numbers1:24 Of the sons of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:25 Those of the tribe of Gad numbered 45,650." 
Numbers1:26 Of the sons of Judah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:27 Those of the tribe of Judah numbered 74,600." 
Numbers1:28 Of the sons of Issachar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:29 Those of the tribe of Issachar numbered 54,400." 
Numbers1:30 Of the sons of Zebulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:31 Those of the tribe of Zebulun numbered 57,400." 
Numbers1:32 Of the sons of Joseph: the sons of Ephraim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:33 Those of the tribe of Ephraim numbered 40,500." 
Numbers1:34 Of the sons of Manasseh, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:35 Those of the tribe of Manasseh numbered 32,200." 
Numbers1:36 Of the sons of Benjamin, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:37 Those of the tribe of Benjamin numbered 35,400." 
Numbers1:38 Of the sons of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:39 Those of the tribe of Dan numbered 62,700." 
Numbers1:40 Of the sons of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:41 Those of the tribe of Asher numbered 41,500." 
Numbers1:42 Of the sons of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, all able to go to war:" 
Numbers1:43 Those of the tribe of Naphtali numbered 53,400." 
Numbers1:44 These were numbered by Moses and Aaron, and the leaders of Israel, twelve men, each representing his father's house." 
Numbers1:45 So all those numbered of the Israelites, by their fathers' houses, from twenty years old and upward, able to go to war in Israel," 
Numbers1:46 All who were numbered were 603,550." 
Numbers1:47 But the Levites by their fathers' tribe were not numbered with them. 
Numbers1:48 For the Lord had said to Moses," 
Numbers1:49 Only the tribe of Levi you shall not number in the census of the Israelites. 
Numbers1:50 But appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the Testimony, and over all its vessels and furnishings and all things that belong to it. They shall carry the tabernacle [when journeying] and all its furnishings, and they shall minister to it and encamp around it." 
Numbers1:51 When the tabernacle is to go forward, the Levites shall take it down, and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up. And the excluded [any not of the tribe of Levi] who approach the tabernacle shall be put to death." 
Numbers1:52 The Israelites shall pitch their tents by their companies, every man by his own camp and every man by his own [tribal] standard." 
Numbers1:53 But the Levites shall encamp around the tabernacle of the Testimony, that there may be no wrath upon the congregation of the Israelites; and the Levites shall keep charge of the tabernacle of the Testimony." 
Numbers1:54 Thus did the Israelites; according to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so they did." 
Numbers2:1 THE LORD said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers2:2 The Israelites shall encamp, each by his own [tribal] standard or banner with the ensign of his father's house, opposite the Tent of Meeting and facing it on every side." 
Numbers2:3 On the east side toward the sunrise shall they of the standard of the camp of Judah encamp by their companies; Nahshon son of Amminadab being the leader of the sons of Judah. 
Numbers2:4 Judah's host as numbered totaled 74,600." 
Numbers2:5 Next to Judah the tribe of Issachar shall encamp, Nethanel son of Zuar being the leader of the sons of Issachar." 
Numbers2:6 Issachar's host as numbered totaled 54,400." 
Numbers2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun, Eliab son of Helon being the leader of the sons of Zebulun." 
Numbers2:8 Zebulun's host as numbered totaled 57,400." 
Numbers2:9 All these [three tribes] numbered in the camp of Judah totaled 186,400. They shall set forth first [on the march]." 
Numbers2:10 On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben by their companies, the leader of the sons of Reuben being Elizur son of Shedeur." 
Numbers2:11 Reuben's host as numbered totaled 46,500." 
Numbers2:12 Those who encamp next to Reuben shall be the tribe of Simeon, the leader of the sons of Simeon being Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers2:13 Simeon's host as numbered totaled 59,300." 
Numbers2:14 Then the tribe of Gad, the leader of the sons of Gad being Eliasaph son of Reuel (Deuel)." 
Numbers2:15 Gad's host as numbered totaled 45,650." 
Numbers2:16 The whole number in [the three tribes of] the camp of Reuben was 151,450. They shall take second place [on the march]." 
Numbers2:17 Then the Tent of Meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps; as they encamp so shall they set forward, every man in his place, standard after standard." 
Numbers2:18 On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim by their companies, the leader of the sons of Ephraim being Elishama son of Ammihud." 
Numbers2:19 Ephraim's host as numbered totaled 40,500." 
Numbers2:20 Beside Ephraim shall be the tribe of Manasseh, the leader of the sons of Manasseh being Gamaliel son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers2:21 Manasseh's host as numbered totaled 32,200." 
Numbers2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin, the leader of the sons of Benjamin being Abidan son of Gideoni." 
Numbers2:23 Benjamin's host as numbered totaled 35,400." 
Numbers2:24 The whole number [of the three tribes] in the camp of Ephraim totaled 108,100. They shall go forward in third place." 
Numbers2:25 The standard of the camp of Dan shall be on the north side [of the tabernacle] by their companies, the leader of the sons of Dan being Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers2:26 Dan's host as numbered totaled 62,700." 
Numbers2:27 Encamped next to Dan shall be the tribe of Asher, the leader of the sons of Asher being Pagiel son of Ochran." 
Numbers2:28 Asher's host as numbered totaled 41,500." 
Numbers2:29 Then the tribe of Naphtali, the leader of the sons of Naphtali being Ahira son of Enan." 
Numbers2:30 Naphtali's host as numbered totaled 53,400." 
Numbers2:31 The whole number [of the three tribes] in the camp of Dan totaled 157,600. They shall set out last, standard after standard." 
Numbers2:32 These are the Israelites as numbered by their fathers' houses. All in the camps who were numbered by their companies were 603,550." 
Numbers2:33 But the Levites were not numbered with the Israelites, for so the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers2:34 Thus the Israelites did according to all the Lord commanded Moses; so they encamped by their standards, and so they set forward, everyone with his [tribal] families, according to his father's house." 
Numbers3:1 NOW THESE are the generations of Aaron and Moses when the Lord spoke with Moses on Mount Sinai. 
Numbers3:2 These are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the firstborn, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
Numbers3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests who were anointed, whom Aaron consecrated and ordained to minister in the priest's office." 
Numbers3:4 But Nadab and Abihu died before the Lord when they offered strange fire before the Lord in the Wilderness of Sinai; and they had no children. So Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's office in the presence and under the supervision of Aaron their father. [Lev. 10:1-4.] 
Numbers3:5 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers3:6 Bring the tribe of Levi near and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister to him." 
Numbers3:7 And they shall carry out his instructions and the duties connected with the whole assembly before the Tent of Meeting, doing the service of the tabernacle." 
Numbers3:8 And they shall keep all the instruments and furnishings of the Tent of Meeting and take charge of [attending] the Israelites, to serve in the tabernacle." 
Numbers3:9 And you shall give the Levites [as servants and helpers] to Aaron and his sons; they are wholly given to him from among the Israelites. 
Numbers3:10 And you shall appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall observe and attend to their priest's office; but the excluded [anyone daring to assume priestly duties or privileges who is not of the house of Aaron and called of God] who comes near [the holy things] shall be put to death." 
Numbers3:11 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers3:12 Behold, I have taken the Levites from among the Israelites instead of every firstborn who opens the womb among the Israelites; and the Levites shall be Mine," 
Numbers3:13 For all the firstborn are Mine. On the day that I slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I consecrated for Myself all the firstborn in Israel, both man and beast; Mine they shall be. I am the Lord." 
Numbers3:14 And the Lord said to Moses in the Wilderness of Sinai," 
Numbers3:15 Number the sons of Levi by their fathers' houses and by families. Every male from a month old and upward you shall number. 
Numbers3:16 So Moses numbered them as he was commanded by the word of the Lord. 
Numbers3:17 These were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
Numbers3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei. 
Numbers3:19 The sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel." 
Numbers3:20 The sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites by their fathers' houses. 
Numbers3:21 Of Gershon were the families of the Libnites and of the Shimeites. These are the families of the Gershonites. 
Numbers3:22 The males who were numbered of them from a month old and upward totaled 7,500." 
Numbers3:23 The families of the Gershonites were to encamp behind the tabernacle on the west," 
Numbers3:24 The leader of the fathers' houses of the Gershonites being Eliasaph son of Lael. 
Numbers3:25 And the responsibility of the sons of Gershon in the Tent of Meeting was to be the tabernacle, the tent, its covering, and the hangings for the door of the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers3:26 And the hangings of the court, the curtain for the door of the court which is around the tabernacle and the altar, its cords, and all the service pertaining to them." 
Numbers3:27 Of Kohath were the families of the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites; these are the families of the Kohathites." 
Numbers3:28 The number of all the males from a month old and upward totaled 8,600, attending to the duties of the sanctuary." 
Numbers3:29 The families of the sons of Kohath were to encamp on the south side of the tabernacle," 
Numbers3:30 The chief of the fathers' houses of the families of the Kohathites being Elizaphan son of Uzziel. 
Numbers3:31 Their charge was to be the ark, the table, the lampstand, the altars, and the utensils of the sanctuary with which the priests minister, and the screen, and all the service having to do with these." 
Numbers3:32 Eleazar son of Aaron the priest was to be chief over the leaders of the Levites, and have the oversight of those who had charge of the sanctuary." 
Numbers3:33 Of Merari were the families of the Mahlites and the Mushites; these are the families of Merari. 
Numbers3:34 Their number of all the males from a month old and upward totaled 6,200." 
Numbers3:35 And the head of the fathers' houses of the families of Merari was Zuriel son of Abihail; the Merarites were to encamp on the north side of the tabernacle. 
Numbers3:36 And the appointed charge of the sons of Merari was the boards or frames of the tabernacle, and its bars, pillars, sockets or bases, and all the accessories or instruments of it, and all the work connected with them," 
Numbers3:37 And the pillars of the surrounding court and their sockets or bases, with their pegs and their cords." 
Numbers3:38 But those to encamp before the tabernacle toward the east, before the Tent of Meeting, toward the sunrise, were to be Moses and Aaron and his sons, keeping the full charge of the rites of the sanctuary in whatever was required for the Israelites; and the excluded [one not a descendant of Aaron and called of God] who came near [the sanctuary] was to be put to death." 
Numbers3:39 All the Levites whom Moses and Aaron numbered at the command of the Lord, by their families, all the males from a month old and upward, were 22,000." 
Numbers3:40 And the Lord said to Moses, Number all the firstborn of the males of the Israelites from a month old and upward, and take the number of their names." 
Numbers3:41 You shall take the Levites for Me instead of all the firstborn among the Israelites. I am the Lord; and you shall take the cattle of the Levites for Me instead of all the firstlings among the cattle of the Israelites. 
Numbers3:42 So Moses numbered, as the Lord commanded him, all the firstborn Israelites." 
Numbers3:43 But all the firstborn males from a month old and upward as numbered were 22,273." 
Numbers3:44 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers3:45 Take the Levites [for Me] instead of all the firstborn Israelites, and the Levites' cattle instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall be Mine. I am the Lord." 
Numbers3:46 And for those 273 who are to be redeemed of the firstborn of the Israelites who outnumber the Levites," 
Numbers3:47 You shall take five shekels apiece, reckoning by the sanctuary shekel of twenty gerahs; you shall collect them," 
Numbers3:48 And you shall give the ransom silver from the excess number [over the Levites] to be redeemed to Aaron and his sons. 
Numbers3:49 So Moses took the redemption money from those who were left over from the number who were redeemed by the Levites. 
Numbers3:50 From the firstborn of the Israelites he took the money, 1,365 shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary." 
Numbers3:51 And Moses gave the money from those who were ransomed to Aaron and his sons, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers4:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers4:2 Take a census of the Kohathite division among the sons of Levi, by their families, by their fathers' houses," 
Numbers4:3 From thirty years old and up to fifty years old, all who can enter the service to do the work in the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers4:4 This shall be the responsibility of the sons of Kohath in the Tent of Meeting: the most holy things. 
Numbers4:5 When the camp prepares to set forward, Aaron and his sons shall take down the veil [screening the Holy of Holies] and cover the ark of the Testimony with it," 
Numbers4:6 And shall put on it the covering of dolphin or porpoise skin, and shall spread over that a cloth wholly of blue, and shall put in place the poles of the ark." 
Numbers4:7 And upon the table of showbread they shall spread a cloth of blue and put on it the plates, the dishes for incense, the bowls, the flagons for the drink offering, and also the continual showbread." 
Numbers4:8 And they shall spread over them a cloth of scarlet, and put over that a covering of dolphin or porpoise skin, and put in place the poles [for carrying]." 
Numbers4:9 And they shall take a cloth of blue and cover the lampstand for the light and its lamps, its snuffers, its ashtrays, and all the oil vessels from which it is supplied." 
Numbers4:10 And they shall put the lampstand and all its utensils within a covering of dolphin or porpoise skin and shall put it upon the frame [for carrying]. 
Numbers4:11 And upon the golden [incense] altar they shall spread a cloth of blue, and cover it with a covering of dolphin or porpoise skin, and shall put in place its poles [for carrying]." 
Numbers4:12 And they shall take all the utensils of the service with which they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a cloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of dolphin or porpoise skin, and shall put them on the frame [for carrying]." 
Numbers4:13 And they shall take away the ashes from the altar [of burnt offering] and spread a purple cloth over it. 
Numbers4:14 And they shall put upon it all its vessels and utensils with which they minister there, the firepans, the fleshhooks or forks, the shovels, the basins, and all the vessels and utensils of the altar, and they shall spread over it all a covering of dolphin or porpoise skin, and shall put in its poles [for carrying]." 
Numbers4:15 When Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all its furniture, as the camp sets out, after all that [is done but not before], the sons of Kohath shall come to carry them. But they shall not touch the holy things, lest they die. These are the things of the Tent of Meeting which the sons of Kohath are to carry." 
Numbers4:16 And Eleazar son of Aaron the priest shall have charge of the oil for the light, the fragrant incense, the continual cereal offering, and the anointing oil, with the oversight of all the tabernacle and of all that is in it, of the sanctuary and its utensils." 
Numbers4:17 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers4:18 [Since] the tribe of the families of the Kohathites [are only Levites and not priests], do not [by exposing them to the sin of touching the most holy things] cut them off from among the Levites." 
Numbers4:19 But deal thus with them, that they may live and not die when they approach the most holy things: Aaron and his sons shall go in and appoint them each to his work and to his burden [to be carried on the march]." 
Numbers4:20 But [the Kohathites] shall not go in to see the sanctuary [the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies] or its holy things, even for an instant, lest they die." 
Numbers4:21 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers4:22 Take a census of the sons of Gershon, by their fathers' houses, by their families." 
Numbers4:23 From thirty years old and up to fifty years old you shall number them, all who enter for service to do the work in the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers4:24 This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, in serving and in bearing burdens [when on the march]:" 
Numbers4:25 And they shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle, and the Tent of Meeting, its covering, and the covering of dolphin or porpoise skin that is on top of it, and the hanging or screen for the door of the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers4:26 And the hangings of the court, and the hanging or screen for the entrance of the gate of the court which is around the tabernacle and the altar [of burnt offering], and their cords, and all the equipment for their service; whatever needs to be done with them, that they shall do." 
Numbers4:27 Under the direction of Aaron and his sons shall be all the service of the sons of the Gershonites, in all they have to carry and in all they have to do; and you shall assign to their charge all that they are to carry [on the march]." 
Numbers4:28 This is the service of the families of the sons of Gershon in the Tent of Meeting; and their work shall be under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron, the [high] priest." 
Numbers4:29 As for the sons of Merari, you shall number them by their families and their fathers' houses;" 
Numbers4:30 From thirty years old up to fifty years old you shall number them, everyone who enters the service to do the work of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers4:31 And this is what they are assigned to carry and to guard [on the march], according to all their service in the Tent of Meeting: the boards or frames of the tabernacle, and its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets or bases," 
Numbers4:32 And the pillars of the court round about with their sockets or bases, and pegs, and cords, with all their equipment and all their accessories for service; and you shall assign to them by name the articles which they are to carry [on the march]." 
Numbers4:33 This is the work of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their tasks in the Tent of Meeting, under the direction of Ithamar son of Aaron, the [high] priest." 
Numbers4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the leaders of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites by their families and their fathers' houses," 
Numbers4:35 From thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who enters the service to do the work of the Tent of Meeting;" 
Numbers4:36 And those who were numbered of them by their families were 2,750." 
Numbers4:37 These were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all who did service in the Tent of Meeting, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the command of the Lord through Moses." 
Numbers4:38 And those that were numbered of the sons of Gershon, by their families, and by their fathers' houses," 
Numbers4:39 From thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who entered the service to do the work of the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers4:40 Those who were enrolled of them, by their families, by their fathers' houses, were 2,630." 
Numbers4:41 These were numbered of the families of the sons of Gershon, all who served in the Tent of Meeting, whom Moses and Aaron numbered as the Lord commanded." 
Numbers4:42 And those numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, by their families, by their fathers' houses," 
Numbers4:43 From thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who entered into the service for work in the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers4:44 Even those who were numbered of them by their families, were 3,200." 
Numbers4:45 These are those who were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the command of the Lord by Moses." 
Numbers4:46 All those who were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the leaders of Israel counted by their families and by their fathers' houses," 
Numbers4:47 From thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could enter to do the work of service and of burden bearing in the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers4:48 Those that were numbered of them were 8,580." 
Numbers4:49 According to the command of the Lord through Moses, they were assigned each to his work of serving and carrying. Thus they were numbered by him, as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Numbers5:1 THE LORD said to Moses," 
Numbers5:2 Command the Israelites that they put outside the camp every leper and everyone who has a discharge, and whoever is defiled by [coming in contact with] the dead." 
Numbers5:3 Both male and female you shall put out; without the camp you shall put them, that they may not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell." 
Numbers5:4 The Israelites did so, and put them outside the camp; as the Lord said to Moses, so the Israelites did." 
Numbers5:5 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers5:6 Say to the Israelites, When a man or woman commits any sin that men commit by breaking faith with the Lord, and that person is guilty," 
Numbers5:7 Then he shall confess the sin which he has committed, and he shall make restitution for his wrong in full, and add a fifth to it, and give it to him whom he has wronged." 
Numbers5:8 But if the man [wronged] has no kinsman to whom the restitution may be made, let it be given to the Lord for the priest, besides the ram of atonement with which atonement shall be made for the offender." 
Numbers5:9 And every offering of all the holy things of the Israelites which they bring to the priest shall be his. 
Numbers5:10 And every man's hallowed things shall be the priest's; whatever any man gives the priest shall be his. 
Numbers5:11 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers5:12 Say to the Israelites, If any man's wife goes astray and commits an offense of guilt against him," 
Numbers5:13 And a man lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband and it is kept secret though she is defiled, and there is no witness against her nor was she taken in the act," 
Numbers5:14 And if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him and he is jealous and suspicious of his wife who has defiled herself,or if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him and he is jealous and suspicious of his wife though she has not defiled herself, 
Numbers5:15 Then shall the man bring his wife to the priest, and he shall bring the offering required of her, a tenth of an ephah of barley meal; but he shall pour no oil upon it nor put frankincense on it [symbols of favor and joy], for it is a cereal offering of jealousy and suspicion, a memorial offering bringing iniquity to remembrance." 
Numbers5:16 And the priest shall bring her near and set her before the Lord. 
Numbers5:17 And the priest shall take holy water [probably from the sacred laver] in an earthen vessel and take some of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle and put it in the water. 
Numbers5:18 And the priest shall set the woman before the Lord, and let the hair of the woman's head hang loose, and put the meal offering of remembrance in her hands, which is the jealousy and suspicion offering. And the priest shall have in his hand the water of bitterness that brings the curse." 
Numbers5:19 Then the priest shall make her take an oath, and say to the woman, If no man has lain with you and if you have not gone astray to uncleanness with another instead of your husband, then be free from any effect of this water of bitterness which brings the curse." 
Numbers5:20 But if you have gone astray and you are defiled, some man having lain with you beside your husband," 
Numbers5:21 Then the priest shall make the woman take the oath of the curse, and say to the woman, The Lord make you a curse and an oath among your people when the Lord makes your thigh fall away and your body swell." 
Numbers5:22 May this water that brings the curse go into your bowels and make your body swell and your thigh fall away. And the woman shall say, So let it be, so let it be." 
Numbers5:23 The priest shall then write these curses in a book and shall wash them off into the water of bitterness; 
Numbers5:24 And he shall cause the woman to drink the water of bitterness that brings the curse, and the water that brings the curse shall enter into her [to try her] bitterly." 
Numbers5:25 Then the priest shall take the cereal offering of jealousy and suspicion out of the woman's hand and shall wave the offering before the Lord and offer it upon the altar. 
Numbers5:26 And the priest shall take a handful of the cereal offering as the memorial portion of it and burn it on the altar, and afterward shall cause the woman to drink the water." 
Numbers5:27 And when he has made her drink the water, then if she is defiled and has committed a trespass against her husband, the curse water which she drank shall be bitterness and cause her body to swell and her thigh to fall away, and the woman shall be a curse among her people." 
Numbers5:28 But if the woman is not defiled and is clean, then she shall be free [from the curse] and be able to have children." 
Numbers5:29 This is the law of jealousy and suspicion when a wife goes aside to another instead of her husband and is defiled," 
Numbers5:30 Or when the spirit of jealousy and suspicion comes upon a man and he is jealous and suspicious of his wife; then shall he set the woman before the Lord, and the priest shall execute on her all this law." 
Numbers5:31 The [husband] shall be free from iniquity and guilt, and that woman [if guilty] shall bear her iniquity." 
Numbers6:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers6:2 Say to the Israelites, When either a man or a woman shall make a special vow, the vow of a Nazirite, that is, one separated and consecrated to the Lord," 
Numbers6:3 He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink; he shall drink no vinegar of wine or of strong drink, and shall drink no grape juice, or eat grapes, fresh or dried. [Luke 1:15.]" 
Numbers6:4 All the days of his separation he shall eat nothing produced from the grapevine, not even the seeds or the skins." 
Numbers6:5 All the days of the vow of his separation and abstinence there shall no razor come upon his head. Until the time is completed for which he separates himself to the Lord, he shall be holy, and shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow long." 
Numbers6:6 All the days that he separates himself to the Lord he shall not go near a dead body. 
Numbers6:7 He shall not make himself unclean for his father, mother, brother, or sister, when they die, because his separation and abstinence to his God is upon his head." 
Numbers6:8 All the days of his separation and abstinence he is holy to the Lord. 
Numbers6:9 And if any man dies very suddenly beside him, and he has defiled his consecrated head, then he shall shave his head on the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day shall he shave it." 
Numbers6:10 On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest to the door of the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers6:11 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering and make atonement for him because he sinned by reason of the dead body. He shall consecrate his head the same day," 
Numbers6:12 And he shall consecrate and separate himself to the Lord for the days of his separation and shall bring a male lamb a year old for a trespass or guilt offering; but the previous days shall be void and lost, because his separation was defiled." 
Numbers6:13 And this is the law of the Nazirite when the days of his separation and abstinence are fulfilled. He shall be brought to the door of the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers6:14 And he shall offer his gift to the Lord, one he-lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish for a sin offering, and one ram without blemish for a peace offering," 
Numbers6:15 And a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, and wafers of unleavened bread spread with oil, and their cereal offering, and their drink offering." 
Numbers6:16 And the priest shall present them before the Lord and shall offer the person's sin offering and his burnt offering. 
Numbers6:17 And he shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace offering to the Lord, with the basket of unleavened bread; the priest shall offer also its cereal offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers6:18 And the Nazirite shall shave his consecrated head at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and shall take the hair and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace offerings." 
Numbers6:19 And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer and shall put them upon the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaven the hair of his separation and abstinence." 
Numbers6:20 And the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the Lord; they are a holy portion for the priest, with the breast that is waved and the thigh or shoulder that is offered; and after that the Nazirite may drink wine." 
Numbers6:21 This is the law for the Nazirite who has made a vow. His offering to the Lord, besides what else he is able to afford, shall be according to the vow which he has vowed; so shall he do according to the law for his separation and abstinence [as a Nazirite]. [Acts 21:24, 26.]" 
Numbers6:22 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers6:23 Say to Aaron and his sons, This is the way you shall bless the Israelites. Say to them," 
Numbers6:24 The Lord bless you and watch, guard, and keep you;" 
Numbers6:25 The Lord make His face to shine upon and enlighten you and be gracious (kind, merciful, and giving favor) to you;" 
Numbers6:26 The Lord lift up His [approving] countenance upon you and give you peace (tranquility of heart and life continually). 
Numbers6:27 And they shall put My name upon the Israelites, and I will bless them." 
Numbers7:1 ON THE day that Moses had fully completed setting up the tabernacle and had anointed and consecrated it and all its furniture, and the altar and all its utensils, and had anointed and set them apart for holy use," 
Numbers7:2 The princes or leaders of Israel, heads of their fathers' houses, made offerings. These were the leaders of the tribes and were over those who were numbered." 
Numbers7:3 And they brought their offering before the Lord, six covered wagons and twelve oxen; a wagon for each two of the princes or leaders and an ox for each one; and they brought them before the tabernacle." 
Numbers7:4 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers7:5 Accept the things from them, that they may be used in doing the service of the Tent of Meeting, and give them to the Levites, to each man according to his service." 
Numbers7:6 So Moses took the wagons and the oxen and gave them to the Levites. 
Numbers7:7 Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service;" 
Numbers7:8 And four wagons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the supervision of Ithamar son of Aaron, the [high] priest." 
Numbers7:9 But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because they were assigned the care of the sanctuary and the holy things which had to be carried on their shoulders." 
Numbers7:10 And the princes or leaders offered sacrifices for the dedication of the altar [of burnt offering] on the day that it was anointed; and they offered their sacrifice before the altar. 
Numbers7:11 And the Lord said to Moses, They shall offer their offerings, each prince or leader on his day, for the dedication of the altar." 
Numbers7:12 He who offered his offering on the first day was Nahshon son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah." 
Numbers7:13 And his offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:14 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:15 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:16 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:17 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab." 
Numbers7:18 The second day Nethanel son of Zuar, leader [of the tribe] of Issachar, offered." 
Numbers7:19 He gave for his offering one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:20 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:21 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:22 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:23 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar." 
Numbers7:24 The third day Eliab son of Helon, leader of the sons of Zebulun, offered." 
Numbers7:25 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:26 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:27 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:28 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:29 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliab son of Helon." 
Numbers7:30 The fourth day Elizur son of Shedeur, leader of the sons of Reuben, offered." 
Numbers7:31 His offering was one silver platter of the weight of 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:32 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:33 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:34 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:35 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur." 
Numbers7:36 The fifth day Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, leader of the sons of Simeon, offered." 
Numbers7:37 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:38 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:39 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:40 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:41 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers7:42 The sixth day Eliasaph son of Deuel, leader of the sons of Gad, offered." 
Numbers7:43 His offering was one silver platter of the weight of 130 shekels, a silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:44 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:45 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:46 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:47 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, [and] five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph son of Deuel." 
Numbers7:48 The seventh day Elishama son of Ammihud, leader of the sons of Ephraim, offered." 
Numbers7:49 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:50 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:51 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:52 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:53 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, [and] five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud." 
Numbers7:54 The eighth day Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, leader of the sons of Manasseh, offered." 
Numbers7:55 His offering was one silver platter of the weight of 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:56 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:57 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:58 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:59 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers7:60 The ninth day Abidan son of Gideoni, prince or leader of the sons of Benjamin, offered." 
Numbers7:61 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:62 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:63 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:64 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:65 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni." 
Numbers7:66 The tenth day Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai, leader of the sons of Dan, offered." 
Numbers7:67 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:68 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:69 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:70 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:71 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers7:72 The eleventh day Pagiel son of Ochran, leader of the sons of Asher, offered." 
Numbers7:73 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:74 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:75 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:76 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:77 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Pagiel son of Ochran." 
Numbers7:78 The twelfth day Ahira son of Enan, leader of the sons of Naphtali, offered." 
Numbers7:79 His offering was one silver platter, the weight of which was 130 shekels, one silver basin of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a cereal offering;" 
Numbers7:80 One golden bowl of ten shekels, full of incense;" 
Numbers7:81 One young bull, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;" 
Numbers7:82 One male goat for a sin offering; 
Numbers7:83 And for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahira son of Enan." 
Numbers7:84 This was the dedication offering for the altar [of burnt offering] from the leaders of Israel on the day when it was anointed: twelve platters of silver, twelve silver basins, twelve golden bowls;" 
Numbers7:85 Each platter of silver weighing 130 shekels, each basin seventy; all the silver vessels weighed 2,400 shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary." 
Numbers7:86 The twelve golden bowls full of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary, all the gold of the bowls being 120 shekels." 
Numbers7:87 All the oxen for the burnt offering were twelve bulls, the rams twelve, the male lambs a year old twelve, together with their cereal offering; and the male goats for a sin offering twelve." 
Numbers7:88 And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the peace offerings were twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication of the altar [of burnt offering] after it was anointed." 
Numbers7:89 And when Moses went into the Tent of Meeting to speak with the Lord, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was upon the ark of the Testimony from between the two cherubim; and He spoke to [Moses]." 
Numbers8:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers8:2 Say to Aaron, When you set up and light the lamps, the seven lamps shall be made to give light in front of the lampstand." 
Numbers8:3 And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps of the lampstand to give light in front of it, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers8:4 And this was the workmanship of the candlestick: beaten or turned gold, beaten work [of gold] from its base to its flowers; according to the pattern which the Lord had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand." 
Numbers8:5 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers8:6 Take the Levites from among the Israelites and cleanse them. 
Numbers8:7 And thus you shall do to them to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of purification [water to be used in case of sin] upon them, and let them pass a razor over all their flesh and wash their clothes and cleanse themselves. [Num. 19:17, 18.]" 
Numbers8:8 Then let them take a young bull and its cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil, and another young bull you shall take for a sin offering." 
Numbers8:9 You shall present the Levites before the Tent of Meeting, and you shall assemble the whole Israelite congregation." 
Numbers8:10 And you shall present the Levites before the Lord, and the Israelites shall put their hands upon the Levites," 
Numbers8:11 And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the Lord as a wave offering from the Israelites and on their behalf, that they may do the service of the Lord." 
Numbers8:12 Then the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bulls, and you shall offer the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering to the Lord, to make atonement for the Levites." 
Numbers8:13 And you shall present the Levites before Aaron and his sons and offer them as a wave offering to the Lord. 
Numbers8:14 Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the Israelites, and the Levites shall be Mine [in a very special sense]." 
Numbers8:15 And after that the Levites shall go in to do service at the Tent of Meeting, when you have cleansed them and offered them as a wave offering." 
Numbers8:16 For they are wholly given to Me from among the Israelites; instead of all who open the womb, the firstborn of all the Israelites, I have taken the Levites for Myself." 
Numbers8:17 For all the firstborn of the Israelites are Mine, both of man and beast; on the day that I smote every firstborn in the land of Egypt [not of Israel], I consecrated them and set them apart for Myself." 
Numbers8:18 And I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn of the Israelites. 
Numbers8:19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the Israelites to do the service of the Israelites at the Tent of Meeting and to make atonement for them, that there may be no plague among the Israelites if they should come near the sanctuary." 
Numbers8:20 So Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the Israelites did thus to the Levites; according to all that the Lord commanded Moses concerning [them], so did the Israelites to them." 
Numbers8:21 The Levites cleansed and purified themselves and they washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them as a wave offering before the Lord and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them. 
Numbers8:22 And after that the Levites went in to do their service in the Tent of Meeting with the attendance of Aaron and his sons; as the Lord had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they to them." 
Numbers8:23 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers8:24 This is what applies to the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward they shall go in to perform the work of the service of the Tent of Meeting," 
Numbers8:25 And at the age of fifty years, they shall retire from the warfare of the service and serve no more," 
Numbers8:26 But shall help their brethren in the Tent of Meeting [attend to protecting the sacred things from being profaned], but shall do no regular or heavy service. Thus shall you direct the Levites in regard to their duties." 
Numbers9:1 THE LORD said to Moses in the Wilderness of Sinai in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt," 
Numbers9:2 Let the Israelites keep the Passover at its appointed time. 
Numbers9:3 On the fourteenth day of this month in the evening, you shall keep it at its appointed time; according to all its statutes and ordinances you shall keep it." 
Numbers9:4 So Moses told the Israelites they should keep the Passover. 
Numbers9:5 And they kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month in the evening in the Wilderness of Sinai; according to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so the Israelites did." 
Numbers9:6 And there were certain men who were defiled by touching the dead body of a man, so they could not keep the Passover on that day; and they came before Moses and Aaron on that day." 
Numbers9:7 Those men said to [Moses], We are defiled by touching the dead body. Why are we prevented from offering the Lord's offering at its appointed time among the Israelites?" 
Numbers9:8 And Moses said to them, Stand still, and I will hear what the Lord will command concerning you." 
Numbers9:9 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers9:10 Say to the Israelites, If any man of you or of your posterity shall be unclean by reason of touching a dead body or is far off on a journey, still he shall keep the Passover to the Lord." 
Numbers9:11 On the fourteenth day of the second month in the evening they shall keep it, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs." 
Numbers9:12 They shall leave none of it until the morning nor break any bone of it; according to all the statutes for the Passover they shall keep it. [John 19:36.] 
Numbers9:13 But the man who is clean and is not on a journey, yet does not keep the Passover, that person shall be cut off from among his people because he did not bring the Lord's offering at its appointed time; that man shall bear [the penalty of] his sin." 
Numbers9:14 And if a stranger sojourns among you and will keep the Passover to the Lord, according to [its] statutes and its ordinances, so shall he do; you shall have one statute both for the temporary resident and for him who was born in the land." 
Numbers9:15 And on the day that the tabernacle was erected, the cloud [of God's presence] covered the tabernacle, that is, the Tent of the Testimony; and at evening it was over the tabernacle, having the appearance of [a pillar of] fire until the morning. [Exod. 13:21.]" 
Numbers9:16 So it was constantly; the cloud covered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night." 
Numbers9:17 Whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, after that the Israelites journeyed; and in the place where the cloud rested, there the Israelites encamped." 
Numbers9:18 At the Lord's command the Israelites journeyed, and at [His] command they encamped. As long as the cloud rested upon the tabernacle they remained encamped." 
Numbers9:19 Even when the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle many days, the Israelites kept the Lord's charge and did not set out." 
Numbers9:20 And sometimes the cloud was only a few days upon the tabernacle, but according to the command of the Lord they remained encamped, and at His command they journeyed." 
Numbers9:21 And sometimes the cloud remained [over the tabernacle] from evening only until morning, but when the cloud was taken up, they journeyed; whether it was taken up by day or by night, they journeyed." 
Numbers9:22 Whether it was two days or a month or a longer time that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, dwelling on it, the Israelites remained encamped; but when it was taken up, they journeyed." 
Numbers9:23 At the command of the Lord they remained encamped, and at [His] command they journeyed; they kept the charge of the Lord, at the command of the Lord through Moses." 
Numbers10:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers10:2 Make two trumpets of silver; of hammered or turned work you shall make them, that you may use them to call the congregation and for breaking camp." 
Numbers10:3 When they both are blown, all the congregation shall assemble before you at the door of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers10:4 And if one blast on a single trumpet is blown, then the princes or leaders, heads of the tribes of Israel, shall gather themselves to you." 
Numbers10:5 When you blow an alarm, the camps on the east side [of the tabernacle] shall set out." 
Numbers10:6 When you blow an alarm the second time, then the camps on the south side shall set out. An alarm shall be blown whenever they are to set out on their journeys." 
Numbers10:7 When the congregation is to be assembled, you shall blow [the trumpets in short, sharp tones], but not the blast of an alarm." 
Numbers10:8 And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets, and the trumpets shall be to you for a perpetual statute throughout your generations." 
Numbers10:9 When you go to war in your land against the enemy that oppresses you, then blow an alarm with the trumpets, that you may be remembered before the Lord your God, and you shall be saved from your enemies." 
Numbers10:10 Also in the day of rejoicing, and in your set feasts, and at the beginnings of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and your peace offerings; thus they may be a remembrance before your God. I am the Lord your God." 
Numbers10:11 On the twentieth day of the second month in the second year [since leaving Egypt], the cloud [of the Lord's presence] was taken up from over the tabernacle of the Testimony," 
Numbers10:12 And the Israelites took their journey by stages out of the Wilderness of Sinai, and the [guiding] cloud rested in the Wilderness of Paran." 
Numbers10:13 When the journey was to begin, at the command of the Lord through Moses," 
Numbers10:14 In the first place went the standard of the camp of the sons of Judah by their companies; and over their host was Nahshon son of Amminadab. 
Numbers10:15 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Issachar was Nethanel son of Zuar. 
Numbers10:16 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun was Eliab son of Helon. 
Numbers10:17 When the tabernacle was taken down, the sons of Gershon and Merari, bearing [it] on their shoulders, set out." 
Numbers10:18 The standard of the camp of Reuben set forward by their companies; and over Reuben's host was Elizur son of Shedeur. 
Numbers10:19 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Simeon was Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai. 
Numbers10:20 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Gad was Eliasaph son of Deuel. 
Numbers10:21 Then the Kohathites set forward, bearing the holy things, and the tabernacle was set up before they arrived." 
Numbers10:22 And the standard of the camp of the sons of Ephraim set forward according to their companies; and over Ephraim's host was Elishama son of Ammihud. 
Numbers10:23 Over the host of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh was Gamaliel son of Pedahzur. 
Numbers10:24 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin was Abidan son of Gideoni. 
Numbers10:25 Then the standard of the camp of the sons of Dan, which was the rear guard of all the camps, set forward according to their companies; and over Dan's host was Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers10:26 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Asher was Pagiel son of Ochran. 
Numbers10:27 And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali was Ahira son of Enan. 
Numbers10:28 This was the Israelites' order of march by their hosts when they set out. 
Numbers10:29 And Moses said to Hobab son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law, We are journeying to the place of which the Lord said, I will give it to you. Come with us, and we will do you good, for the Lord has promised good concerning Israel." 
Numbers10:30 And Hobab said to him, I will not go; I will depart to my own land and to my family." 
Numbers10:31 And Moses said, Do not leave us, I pray you; for you know how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and you will serve as eyes for us." 
Numbers10:32 And if you will go with us, it shall be that whatever good the Lord does to us, the same we will do to you." 
Numbers10:33 They departed from the mountain of the Lord [Mount Sinai] three days' journey; and the ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them during the three days' journey to seek out a resting-place for them. 
Numbers10:34 The cloud of the Lord was over them by day when they went forward from the camp. 
Numbers10:35 Whenever the ark set out, Moses said, Rise up, Lord; let Your enemies be scattered; and let those who hate You flee before You. [Ps. 68:1, 2.]" 
Numbers10:36 And when it rested, he said, Return, O Lord, to the ten thousand thousands in Israel." 
Numbers11:1 AND THE people grumbled and deplored their hardships, which was evil in the ears of the Lord, and when the Lord heard it, His anger was kindled; and the fire of the Lord burned among them and devoured those in the outlying parts of the camp." 
Numbers11:2 The people cried to Moses, and when Moses prayed to the Lord, the fire subsided." 
Numbers11:3 He called the name of the place Taberah [burning], because the fire of the Lord burned among them." 
Numbers11:4 And the mixed multitude among them [the rabble who followed Israel from Egypt] began to lust greatly [for familiar and dainty food], and the Israelites wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat?" 
Numbers11:5 We remember the fish we ate freely in Egypt and without cost, the cucumbers, melons, leeks, onions, and garlic." 
Numbers11:6 But now our soul (our strength) is dried up; there is nothing at all [in the way of food] to be seen but this manna. 
Numbers11:7 The manna was like coriander seed and its appearance was like that of bdellium [perhaps a precious stone]. 
Numbers11:8 The people went about and gathered it, and ground it in mills or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it; and it tasted like cakes baked with fresh oil." 
Numbers11:9 And when the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna fell with it." 
Numbers11:10 And Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent; and the anger of the Lord blazed hotly, and in the eyes of Moses it was evil." 
Numbers11:11 And Moses said to the Lord, Why have You dealt ill with Your servants? And why have I not found favor in Your sight, that You lay the burden of all this people on me?" 
Numbers11:12 Have I conceived all this people? Have I brought them forth, that You should say to me, Carry them in your bosom, as a nursing father carries the sucking child, to the land which You swore to their fathers [to give them]?" 
Numbers11:13 Where should I get meat to give to all these people? For they weep before me and say, Give us meat, that we may eat." 
Numbers11:14 I am not able to carry all these people alone, because the burden is too heavy for me." 
Numbers11:15 And if this is the way You deal with me, kill me, I pray You, at once, and be granting me a favor and let me not see my wretchedness [in the failure of all my efforts]." 
Numbers11:16 And the Lord said to Moses, Gather for Me seventy men of the elders of Israel whom you know to be the elders of the people and officers over them; and bring them to the Tent of Meeting and let them stand there with you." 
Numbers11:17 And I will come down and talk with you there; and I will take of the Spirit which is upon you and will put It upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, so that you may not have to bear it yourself alone." 
Numbers11:18 And say to the people, Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, and you shall eat meat; for you have wept in the hearing of the Lord, saying, Who will give us meat to eat? For it was well with us in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat, and you shall eat." 
Numbers11:19 You shall not eat one day, or two, or five, or ten, or twenty days," 
Numbers11:20 But a whole month,until [you are satiated and vomit it up violently and] it comes out at your nostrils and is disgusting to you,because you have rejected and despised the Lord Who is among you, and have wept before Him, saying, Why did we come out of Egypt? [Ps. 106:13-15.]" 
Numbers11:21 But Moses said, The people among whom I am are 600,000 footmen [besides all the women and children], and You have said, I will give them meat, that they may eat a whole month!" 
Numbers11:22 Shall flocks and herds be killed to suffice them? Or shall all the fish of the sea be collected to satisfy them? 
Numbers11:23 The Lord said to Moses, Has the Lord's hand (His ability and power) become short (thwarted and inadequate)? You shall see now whether My word shall come to pass for you or not. [Isa. 50:2.]" 
Numbers11:24 So Moses went out and told the people the words of the Lord, and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people and set them round about the Tent." 
Numbers11:25 And the Lord came down in the cloud and spoke to him, and took of the Spirit that was upon him and put It upon the seventy elders; and when the Spirit rested upon them, they prophesied [sounding forth the praises of God and declaring His will]. Then they did so no more. [Num. 11:29.]" 
Numbers11:26 But there remained two men in the camp named Eldad and Medad. The Spirit rested upon them, and they were of those who were selected and listed, yet they did not go out to the Tent [as told to do], but they prophesied in the camp." 
Numbers11:27 And a young man ran to Moses and said, Eldad and Medad are prophesying [sounding forth the praises of God and declaring His will] in the camp." 
Numbers11:28 Joshua son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, said, My lord Moses, forbid them!" 
Numbers11:28 Joshua son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, said, My lord Moses, forbid them!" 
Numbers11:29 But Moses said to him, Are you envious or jealous for my sake? Would that all the Lord's people were prophets and that the Lord would put His Spirit upon them! [Luke 9:49, 50.]" 
Numbers11:30 And Moses went back into the camp, he and the elders of Israel." 
Numbers11:31 And there went forth a wind from the Lord and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall [so they flew low] beside the camp, about a day's journey on this side and on the other side, all around the camp, about two cubits above the ground." 
Numbers11:32 And the people rose all that day and all night and all the next day and caught and gathered the quails. He who gathered least gathered ten homers; and they spread them out for themselves round about the camp [to cure them by drying]. 
Numbers11:33 While the meat was yet between their teeth, before it was consumed, the anger of the Lord was kindled against the people, and the Lord smote them with a very great plague." 
Numbers11:34 That place was called Kibroth-hattaavah [the graves of sensuous desire], because there they buried the people who lusted, whose physical appetite caused them to sin. [I Cor. 10:1-13.]" 
Numbers11:35 The Israelites journeyed from Kibroth-hattaavah to Hazeroth, where they remained." 
Numbers12:1 NOW MIRIAM and Aaron talked against Moses [their brother] because of his Cushite wife, for he had married a Cushite woman." 
Numbers12:2 And they said, Has the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? Has He not spoken also by us? And the Lord heard it." 
Numbers12:3 Now the man Moses was very meek (gentle, kind, and humble) or above all the men on the face of the earth." 
Numbers12:4 Suddenly the Lord said to Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, Come out, you three, to the Tent of Meeting. And the three of them came out." 
Numbers12:5 The Lord came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the Tent door and called Aaron and Miriam, and they came forward." 
Numbers12:6 And He said, Hear now My words: If there is a prophet among you, I the Lord make Myself known to him in a vision and speak to him in a dream." 
Numbers12:7 But not so with My servant Moses; he is entrusted and faithful in all My house. [Heb. 3:2, 5, 6.]" 
Numbers12:8 With him I speak mouth to mouth [directly], clearly and not in dark speeches; and he beholds the form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against My servant Moses?" 
Numbers12:9 And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and He departed." 
Numbers12:10 And when the cloud departed from over the Tent, behold, Miriam was leprous, as white as snow. And Aaron looked at Miriam, and, behold, she was leprous!" 
Numbers12:11 And Aaron said to Moses, Oh, my lord, I plead with you, lay not the sin upon us in which we have done foolishly and in which we have sinned." 
Numbers12:12 Let her not be as one dead, already half decomposed when he comes out of his mother's womb." 
Numbers12:13 And Moses cried to the Lord, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech You!" 
Numbers12:14 And the Lord said to Moses, If her father had but spit in her face, should she not be ashamed for seven days? Let her be shut up outside the camp for seven days, and after that let her be brought in again." 
Numbers12:15 So Miriam was shut up without the camp for seven days, and the people did not journey on until Miriam was brought in again." 
Numbers12:16 Afterward [they] removed from Hazeroth and encamped in the Wilderness of Paran. 
Numbers13:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers13:2 Send men to explore and scout out [for yourselves] the land of Canaan, which I give to the Israelites. From each tribe of their fathers you shall send a man, every one a leader or head among them." 
Numbers13:3 So Moses by the command of the Lord sent scouts from the Wilderness of Paran, all of them men who were heads of the Israelites." 
Numbers13:4 These were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua son of Zaccur;" 
Numbers13:5 Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat son of Hori;" 
Numbers13:6 Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh;" 
Numbers13:7 Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal son of Joseph;" 
Numbers13:8 Of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea [that is, Joshua] son of Nun;" 
Numbers13:8 Of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea [that is, Joshua] son of Nun;" 
Numbers13:9 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti son of Raphu;" 
Numbers13:10 Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel son of Sodi;" 
Numbers13:11 Of the tribe of Joseph, that is, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi son of Susi;" 
Numbers13:12 Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel son of Gemalli;" 
Numbers13:13 Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur son of Michael;" 
Numbers13:14 Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi son of Vophsi;" 
Numbers13:15 Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel son of Machi." 
Numbers13:16 These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to explore and scout out the land. And Moses called Hoshea son of Nun, Joshua." 
Numbers13:16 These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to explore and scout out the land. And Moses called Hoshea son of Nun, Joshua." 
Numbers13:17 Moses sent them to scout out the land of Canaan, and said to them, Get up this way by the South (the Negeb) and go up into the hill country," 
Numbers13:18 And see what the land is and whether the people who dwell there are strong or weak, few or many," 
Numbers13:19 And whether the land they live in is good or bad, and whether the cities they dwell in are camps or strongholds," 
Numbers13:20 And what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there is timber on it or not. And be of good courage and bring some of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first ripe grapes." 
Numbers13:21 So they went up and scouted through the land from the Wilderness of Zin to Rehob, to the entrance of Hamath." 
Numbers13:22 And then went up into the South (the Negeb) and came to Hebron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai [probably three tribes of] the sons of Anak were there. (Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)" 
Numbers13:23 And they came to the Valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they carried it on a pole between two [of them]; they brought also some pomegranates and figs." 
Numbers13:24 That place was called the Valley of Eshcol [cluster] because of the cluster which the Israelites cut down there. 
Numbers13:25 And they returned from scouting out the land after forty days. 
Numbers13:26 They came to Moses and Aaron and to all the Israelite congregation in the Wilderness of Paran at Kadesh, and brought them word, and showed them the land's fruit." 
Numbers13:27 They told Moses, We came to the land to which you sent us; surely it flows with milk and honey. This is its fruit." 
Numbers13:28 But the people who dwell there are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large; moreover, there we saw the sons of Anak [of great stature and courage]." 
Numbers13:29 Amalek dwells in the land of the South (the Negeb); the Hittite, the Jebusite, and the Amorite dwell in the hill country; and the Canaanite dwells by the sea and along by the side of the Jordan [River]." 
Numbers13:30 Caleb quieted the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once and possess it; we are well able to conquer it." 
Numbers13:31 But his fellow scouts said, We are not able to go up against the people [of Canaan], for they are stronger than we are." 
Numbers13:32 So they brought the Israelites an evil report of the land which they had scouted out, saying, The land through which we went to spy it out is a land that devours its inhabitants. And all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature." 
Numbers13:33 There we saw the Nephilim [or giants], the sons of Anak, who come from the giants; and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight." 
Numbers14:1 AND ALL the congregation cried out with a loud voice, and [they] wept that night." 
Numbers14:2 All the Israelites grumbled and deplored their situation, accusing Moses and Aaron, to whom the whole congregation said, Would that we had died in Egypt! Or that we had died in this wilderness!" 
Numbers14:3 Why does the Lord bring us to this land to fall by the sword? Our wives and little ones will be a prey. Is it not better for us to return to Egypt? [Acts 7:37-39.] 
Numbers14:4 And they said one to another, Let us choose a captain and return to Egypt." 
Numbers14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of Israelites. 
Numbers14:6 And Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, who were among the scouts who had searched the land, rent their clothes," 
Numbers14:6 And Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, who were among the scouts who had searched the land, rent their clothes," 
Numbers14:7 And they said to all the company of Israelites, The land through which we passed as scouts is an exceedingly good land." 
Numbers14:8 If the Lord delights in us, then He will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Numbers14:9 Only do not rebel against the Lord, neither fear the people of the land, for they are bread for us. Their defense and the shadow [of protection] is removed from over them, but the Lord is with us. Fear them not." 
Numbers14:10 But all the congregation said to stone [Joshua and Caleb] with stones. But the glory of the Lord appeared at the Tent of Meeting before all the Israelites. 
Numbers14:10 But all the congregation said to stone [Joshua and Caleb] with stones. But the glory of the Lord appeared at the Tent of Meeting before all the Israelites. 
Numbers14:11 And the Lord said to Moses, How long will this people provoke (spurn, despise) Me? And how long will it be before they believe Me [trusting in, relying on, clinging to Me], for all the signs which I have performed among them?" 
Numbers14:12 I will smite them with the pestilence and disinherit them, and will make of you [Moses] a nation greater and mightier than they." 
Numbers14:13 But Moses said to the Lord, Then the Egyptians will hear of it, for You brought up this people in Your might from among them." 
Numbers14:14 And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land. They have heard that You, Lord, are in the midst of this people [of Israel], that You, Lord, are seen face to face, and that Your cloud stands over them, and that You go before them in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night." 
Numbers14:15 Now if You kill all this people as one man, then the nations that have heard Your fame will say," 
Numbers14:16 Because the Lord was not able to bring this people into the land which He swore to give to them, therefore He has slain them in the wilderness." 
Numbers14:17 And now, I pray You, let the power of my Lord be great, as You have promised, saying," 
Numbers14:18 The Lord is long-suffering and slow to anger, and abundant in mercy and loving-kindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression; but He will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the third and fourth generation. [Exod. 34:6, 7.]" 
Numbers14:19 Pardon, I pray You, the iniquity of this people according to the greatness of Your mercy and loving-kindness, just as You have forgiven [them] from Egypt until now." 
Numbers14:20 And the Lord said, I have pardoned according to your word." 
Numbers14:21 But truly as I live and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord, [Isa. 6:3; 11:9.]" 
Numbers14:22 Because all those men who have seen My glory and My [miraculous] signs which I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have tested and proved Me these ten times and have not heeded My voice," 
Numbers14:23 Surely they shall not see the land which I swore to give to their fathers; nor shall any who provoked (spurned, despised) Me see it. [Heb. 6:4-11.]" 
Numbers14:24 But My servant Caleb, because he has a different spirit and has followed Me fully, I will bring into the land into which he went, and his descendants shall possess it." 
Numbers14:25 Now because the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwell in the valley, tomorrow turn and go into the wilderness by way of the Red Sea." 
Numbers14:26 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers14:27 How long will this evil congregation murmur against Me? I have heard the complaints the Israelites murmur against Me. 
Numbers14:28 Tell them, As I live, says the Lord, what you have said in My hearing I will do to you:" 
Numbers14:29 Your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness,of all who were numbered of you, from twenty years old and upward, who have murmured against Me, [Heb. 3:17-19.]" 
Numbers14:30 Surely none shall come into the land in which I swore to make you dwell, except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun." 
Numbers14:30 Surely none shall come into the land in which I swore to make you dwell, except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun." 
Numbers14:31 But your little ones whom you said would be a prey, them will I bring in and they shall know the land which you have despised and rejected." 
Numbers14:32 But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness." 
Numbers14:33 And your children shall be wanderers and shepherds in the wilderness for forty years and shall suffer for your whoredoms (your infidelity to your espoused God), until your corpses are consumed in the wilderness." 
Numbers14:34 After the number of the days in which you spied out the land [of Canaan], even forty days, for each day a year shall you bear and suffer for your iniquities, even for forty years, and you shall know My displeasure [the revoking of My promise and My estrangement]." 
Numbers14:35 I the Lord have spoken; surely this will I do to all this evil congregation who is gathered together against Me. In this wilderness they shall be consumed [by war, disease, plagues], and here they shall die. [I Cor. 10:10, 11.]" 
Numbers14:36 And the men whom Moses sent to search the land, who returned and made all the congregation grumble and complain against him by bringing back a slanderous report of the land," 
Numbers14:37 Even those men who brought the evil report of the land died by a plague before the Lord. [Heb. 3:17-19; Jude 5-7.] 
Numbers14:38 But Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, who were among the men who went to search the land, lived still." 
Numbers14:38 But Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, who were among the men who went to search the land, lived still." 
Numbers14:39 Moses told [the Lord's] words to all the Israelites, and [they] mourned greatly." 
Numbers14:40 And they rose early in the morning and went up to the top of the mountain, saying, Behold, we are here, and we intend to go up to the place which the Lord has promised, for we have sinned." 
Numbers14:41 But Moses said, Why now do you transgress the command of the Lord [to turn back by way of the Red Sea], since it will not succeed?" 
Numbers14:42 Go not up, for the Lord is not among you, that you be not struck down before your enemies." 
Numbers14:43 For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and you shall fall by the sword. Because you have turned away from following after the Lord, therefore the Lord will not be with you." 
Numbers14:44 But they presumed to go up to the heights of the hill country; however, neither the ark of the covenant of the Lord nor Moses departed out of the camp." 
Numbers14:45 Then the Amalekites came down and the Canaanites who dwelt in that hill country and smote the Israelites and beat them back, even as far as Hormah." 
Numbers15:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:2 Say to the Israelites, When you come into the land where you are to live, which I am giving you," 
Numbers15:3 And will make an offering by fire to the Lord from the herd or from the flock, a burnt offering or a sacrifice to fulfill a special vow or as a freewill offering or in your set feasts, to make a pleasant and soothing fragrance to the Lord," 
Numbers15:4 Then shall he who brings his offering to the Lord bring a cereal offering of a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a fourth of a hin of oil. 
Numbers15:5 And a fourth of a hin of wine for the drink offering you shall prepare with the burnt offering or for the sacrifice, for each lamb." 
Numbers15:6 Or for a ram you shall prepare for a cereal offering two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a third of a hin of oil. 
Numbers15:7 And for the drink offering you shall offer a third of a hin of wine, for a sweet and pleasing odor to the Lord." 
Numbers15:8 And when you prepare a bull for a burnt offering or for a sacrifice, in fulfilling a special vow or peace offering to the Lord," 
Numbers15:9 Then shall one offer with the bull a cereal offering of three tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil. 
Numbers15:10 And you shall bring for the drink offering half a hin of wine for an offering made by fire, of a pleasant and soothing fragrance to the Lord." 
Numbers15:11 Thus shall it be done for each bull or for each ram, or for each of the male lambs or of the kids." 
Numbers15:12 According to the number that you shall prepare, so shall you do to everyone according to their number." 
Numbers15:13 All who are native-born shall do these things in this way in bringing an offering made by fire of a sweet and pleasant odor to the Lord. 
Numbers15:14 And if a stranger sojourns with you or whoever may be among you throughout your generations, and he wishes to offer an offering made by fire, of a pleasing and soothing fragrance to the Lord, as you do, so shall he do." 
Numbers15:15 There shall be one [and the same] statute [both] for you [of the congregation] and for the stranger who is a temporary resident with you, a statute forever throughout your generations: as you are, so shall the stranger be before the Lord." 
Numbers15:16 One law and one ordinance shall be for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you. 
Numbers15:17 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:18 Say to the Israelites, When you come into the land to which I am bringing you," 
Numbers15:19 Then, when you eat of the food of the land, you shall set apart a portion for a gift to the Lord [called a heave or taken-out offering]." 
Numbers15:20 You shall set apart a cake made of the first of your coarse meal as a gift [to the Lord]; as an offering set apart from the threshing floor, so shall you lift it out or heave it." 
Numbers15:21 Of the first of your coarse meal you shall give to the Lord a portion for a gift throughout your generations [your heave or lifted-out offering]. 
Numbers15:22 When you have erred and have not observed all these commandments which the Lord has spoken to Moses," 
Numbers15:23 Even all that the Lord has commanded you through Moses, from the day that the Lord gave commandment and onward throughout your generations," 
Numbers15:24 Then it shall be, if it was done unwittingly or in error without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt offering, for a pleasant and soothing fragrance to the Lord, with its cereal offering and its drink offering, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a sin offering." 
Numbers15:25 And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the Israelites, and they shall be forgiven, for it was an error and they have brought their offering, an offering made by fire to the Lord, and their sin offering before the Lord for their error." 
Numbers15:26 And all the congregation of the Israelites shall be forgiven and the stranger who lives temporarily among them, because all the people were involved in the error." 
Numbers15:27 And if any person sins unknowingly or unintentionally, he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering." 
Numbers15:28 And the priest shall make atonement before the Lord for the person who commits an error when he sins unknowingly or unintentionally, to make atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven." 
Numbers15:29 You shall have one law for him who sins unknowingly or unintentionally, whether he is native born among the Israelites or a stranger who is sojourning among them." 
Numbers15:30 But the person who does anything [wrong] willfully and openly, whether he is native-born or a stranger, that one reproaches, reviles, and blasphemes the Lord, and that person shall be cut off from among his people [that the atonement made for them may not include him]." 
Numbers15:31 Because he has despised and rejected the word of the Lord, and has broken His commandment, that person shall be utterly cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him." 
Numbers15:32 While the Israelites were in the wilderness, they found a man who was gathering sticks on the Sabbath day." 
Numbers15:33 Those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation. 
Numbers15:34 They put him in custody, because it was not certain or clear what should be done to him." 
Numbers15:35 And the Lord said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp." 
Numbers15:36 And all the congregation brought him without the camp and stoned him to death with stones, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers15:37 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:38 Speak to the Israelites and bid them make fringes or tassels on the corners in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and put upon the fringe of the borders or upon the tassel of each corner a cord of blue." 
Numbers15:39 And it shall be to you a fringe or tassel that you may look upon and remember all the commandments of the Lord and do them, that you may not spy out and follow after [the desires of] your own heart and your own eyes, after which you used to follow and play the harlot [spiritually, if not physically]," 
Numbers15:40 That you may remember and do all My commandments and be holy to your God. 
Numbers15:41 I am the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord your God." 
Numbers16:1 NOW KORAH son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, with Dathan and Abiram sons of Eliab, and On son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men," 
Numbers16:2 And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the Israelites, 250 princes or leaders of the congregation called to the assembly, men well known and of distinction." 
Numbers16:3 And they gathered together against Moses and Aaron, and said to them, [Enough of you!] You take too much upon yourselves, seeing that all the congregation is holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them. Why then do you lift yourselves up above the assembly of the Lord?" 
Numbers16:4 And when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face." 
Numbers16:5 And he said to Korah and all his company, In the morning the Lord will show who are His and who is holy, and will cause him to come near to Him; him whom He has chosen will He cause to come near to Him. [II Tim. 2:19.]" 
Numbers16:6 Do this: Take censers, Korah and all your company," 
Numbers16:7 And put fire in them and put incense upon them before the Lord tomorrow; and the man whom the Lord chooses shall be holy. You take too much upon yourselves, you sons of Levi." 
Numbers16:8 And Moses said to Korah, Hear, I pray you, you sons of Levi:" 
Numbers16:9 Does it seem but a small thing to you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to Himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord and to stand before the congregation to minister to them," 
Numbers16:10 And that He has brought you near to Him, and all your brethren the sons of Levi with you? Would you seek the priesthood also?" 
Numbers16:11 Therefore you and all your company are gathered together against the Lord. And Aaron, what is he that you murmur against him?" 
Numbers16:12 And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and they said, We will not come up." 
Numbers16:13 Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey to kill us in the wilderness, but you must also make yourself a prince over us?" 
Numbers16:14 Moreover, you have not brought us into a land that flows with milk and honey or given us an inheritance of fields and vineyards. Will you bore out the eyes of these men? We will not come up!" 
Numbers16:15 And Moses was very angry and said to the Lord, Do not respect their offering! I have not taken one donkey from them, nor have I hurt one of them." 
Numbers16:16 And Moses said to Korah, You and all your company be before the Lord tomorrow, you and they and Aaron." 
Numbers16:17 And let every man take his censer and put incense upon it and bring before the Lord every man his censer, 250 censers; you also and Aaron, each his censer." 
Numbers16:18 So they took every man his censer, and they put fire in them and laid incense upon it, and they stood at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting with Moses and Aaron." 
Numbers16:19 Then Korah assembled all the congregation against Moses and Aaron before the entrance of the Tent of Meeting, and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the congregation." 
Numbers16:20 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers16:21 Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment." 
Numbers16:22 And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin and will You be angry with all the congregation?" 
Numbers16:23 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers16:24 Say to the congregation, Get away from around the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram." 
Numbers16:25 Then Moses rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel followed him." 
Numbers16:26 And he said to the congregation, Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be consumed in all their sins." 
Numbers16:27 So they got away from around the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. And Dathan and Abiram came out and stood in the door of their tents with their wives, and their sons, and their little ones." 
Numbers16:28 And Moses said, By this you shall know that the Lord has sent me to do all these works, for I do not act of my own accord:" 
Numbers16:29 If these men die the common death of all men or if [only] what happens to everyone happens to them, then the Lord has not sent me." 
Numbers16:30 But if the Lord causes a new thing [to happen], and the earth opens its mouth and swallows them up, with all that belongs to them, and they go down alive into Sheol (the place of the dead), then you shall understand that these men have provoked (spurned, despised) the Lord!" 
Numbers16:31 As soon as he stopped speaking, the ground under the offenders split apart" 
Numbers16:32 And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them and their households and [Korah and] all [his] men and all their possessions. [Num. 26:10, 11.]" 
Numbers16:33 They and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol (the place of the dead); and the earth closed upon them, and they perished from among the assembly." 
Numbers16:34 And all Israel who were round about them fled at their cry, for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up also." 
Numbers16:35 And fire came forth from the Lord and devoured the 250 men who offered the incense. 
Numbers16:36 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers16:37 Speak to Eleazar son of Aaron, the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning and scatter the fire at a distance. For the censers are hallowed," 
Numbers16:38 The censers of these men who have sinned against themselves and at the cost of their own lives. Let the censers be made into hammered plates for a covering of the altar [of burnt offering], for they were used in offering before the Lord and therefore they are sacred. They shall be a sign [of warning] to the Israelites." 
Numbers16:39 Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers with which the Levites who were burned had offered incense, and they were hammered into broad sheets for a covering of the [brazen] altar [of burnt offering]," 
Numbers16:40 To be a memorial [a warning forever] to the Israelites, so that no outsider, that is, no one not of the descendants of Aaron, should come near to offer incense before the Lord, lest he become as Korah and as his company, as the Lord said to Eleazar through Moses." 
Numbers16:41 But on the morrow all the congregation of the Israelites murmured against Moses and Aaron, saying, You have killed the people of the Lord." 
Numbers16:42 When the congregation was gathered against Moses and Aaron, they looked at the Tent of Meeting, and behold, the cloud covered it and they saw the Lord's glory." 
Numbers16:43 And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers16:44 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers16:45 Get away from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment. And Moses and Aaron fell on their faces." 
Numbers16:46 And Moses said to Aaron, Take a censer and put fire in it from off the altar and lay incense on it, and carry it quickly to the congregation and make atonement for them. For there is wrath gone out from the Lord; the plague has begun!" 
Numbers16:47 So Aaron took the burning censer as Moses commanded, and ran into the midst of the congregation; and behold, the plague was begun among the people; and he put on the incense and made atonement for the people." 
Numbers16:48 And he stood between the dead and the living, and the plague was stayed." 
Numbers16:49 Now those who died in the plague were 14,700, besides those who died in the matter of Korah." 
Numbers16:50 And Aaron returned to Moses to the door of the Tent of Meeting, since the plague was stayed." 
Numbers17:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers17:2 Speak to the Israelites and get from them rods or staves, one for each father's house, from all their leaders according to their father's houses, twelve rods. Write every man's name on his rod." 
Numbers17:3 And you shall write Aaron's name on the rod of Levi [his great-grandfather]. For there shall be one rod for the head of each father's house. 
Numbers17:4 You shall lay them up in the Tent of Meeting before [the ark of] the Testimony, where I meet with you." 
Numbers17:5 And the rod of the man whom I choose shall bud, and I will make to cease from Me the murmurings of the Israelites, which they murmur against you." 
Numbers17:6 And Moses spoke to the Israelites, and every one of their leaders gave him a rod or staff, one for each leader according to their fathers' houses, twelve rods, and the rod of Aaron was among their rods." 
Numbers17:7 And Moses deposited the rods before the Lord in the Tent of the Testimony. 
Numbers17:8 And the next day Moses went into the Tent of the Testimony, and behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi had sprouted and brought forth buds and produced blossoms and yielded [ripe] almonds." 
Numbers17:9 Moses brought out all the rods from before the Lord to all the Israelites; and they looked, and each man took his rod." 
Numbers17:10 And the Lord told Moses, Put Aaron's rod back before the Testimony [in the ark], to be kept as a [warning] sign for the rebels; and you shall make an end of their murmurings against Me, lest they die." 
Numbers17:11 And Moses did so; as the Lord commanded him, so he did." 
Numbers17:12 The Israelites said to Moses, Behold, we perish, we are undone, all undone!" 
Numbers17:13 Everyone who comes near, who comes near the tabernacle of the Lord, dies or shall die! Are we all to perish?" 
Numbers18:1 AND THE Lord said to Aaron, You and your sons and your father's house with you shall bear and remove the iniquity of the sanctuary [that is, the guilt for the offenses which the people unknowingly commit when brought into contact with the manifestations of God's presence]. And you and your sons with you shall bear and remove the iniquity of your priesthood [your own unintentional offenses]." 
Numbers18:2 And your brethren also of the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your [fore]father, bring with you, that they may be joined to you and minister to you; but only you and your sons with you shall come before the Tent of the Testimony [into the Holy Place where only priests may go and into the Most Holy Place which only the high priest dares enter]." 
Numbers18:3 And the Levites shall attend you [as servants] and attend to all the duties of the Tent; only they shall not come near the sacred vessels of the sanctuary or to the brazen altar, that they and also you [Aaron] die not." 
Numbers18:4 And they shall be joined to you and attend to the duties of the Tent of Meeting,all the [menial] service of the Tent,and no stranger [no layman, anyone who is not a Levite] shall come near you [Aaron and your sons]." 
Numbers18:5 And you shall attend to the duties of the sanctuary and attend to the altar [of burnt offering and the altar of incense], that there be no wrath any more upon the Israelites [as in the incident of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram]. [Num. 16:42-50.]" 
Numbers18:6 And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among the Israelites; to you they are a gift, given to the Lord, to do the [menial] service of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers18:7 Therefore you and your sons with you shall attend to your priesthood for everything of the altar [of burnt offering and the altar of incense] and [of the Holy of Holies] within the veil, and you shall serve. I give you your priesthood as a service of gift. And the stranger [anyone other than Moses or your sons, Aaron] who comes near shall be put to death. [Exod. 40:18, 20, 26.]" 
Numbers18:8 And the Lord said to Aaron, And I, behold, I have given you the charge of My heave offerings [whatever is taken out and kept of the offerings made to Me], all the dedicated and consecrated things of the Israelites; to you have I given them [as your portion] and to your sons as a continual allowance forever by reason of your anointing as priests. [Lev. 7:35.]" 
Numbers18:9 This shall be yours of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every offering of the people, every cereal offering and sin offering and trespass offering of theirs, which they shall render to Me, shall be most holy for you [Aaron] and for your sons." 
Numbers18:10 As the most holy thing and in a sacred place shall you eat of it; every male [of your house] shall eat of it. It shall be holy to you. [Lev. 22:10-16.] 
Numbers18:11 And this also is yours: the heave offering of their gift, with all the wave offerings of the Israelites. I have given them to you and to your sons and to your daughters with you as a continual allowance forever; everyone in your house who is [ceremonially] clean may eat of it." 
Numbers18:12 All the best of the oil, and all the best of the [fresh] wine and of the grain, the firstfruits of what they give to the Lord, to you have I given them." 
Numbers18:13 Whatever is first ripe in the land, which they bring to the Lord, shall be yours. Everyone who is [ceremonially] clean in your house may eat of it." 
Numbers18:14 Every devoted thing in Israel [everything that has been vowed to the Lord] shall be yours. 
Numbers18:15 Everything that first opens the womb in all flesh, which they bring to the Lord, whether it be of men or beasts, shall be yours. Nevertheless the firstborn of man you shall surely redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts you shall redeem." 
Numbers18:16 And those that are to be redeemed of them, from a month old shall you redeem, according to your estimate [of their age], for the fixed price of five shekels in silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs." 
Numbers18:17 But the firstling of a cow or of a sheep or of a goat you shall not redeem. They [as the firstborn of clean beasts belong to God and] are holy. You shall sprinkle their blood upon the altar and shall burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet and soothing odor to the Lord." 
Numbers18:18 And the flesh of them shall be yours, as the wave breast and as the right shoulder are yours." 
Numbers18:19 All the heave offerings [the lifted-out and kept portions] of the holy things which the Israelites give to the Lord I give to you and to your sons and your daughters with you, as a continual debt forever. It is a covenant of salt [that cannot be dissolved or violated] forever before the Lord for you [Aaron] and for your posterity with you." 
Numbers18:20 And the Lord said to Aaron, You shall have no inheritance in the land [of the Israelites], neither shall you have any part among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the Israelites." 
Numbers18:21 And, behold, I have given the Levites all the tithes in Israel for an inheritance in return for their service which they serve, the [menial] service of the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers18:22 Henceforth the Israelites shall not come near the Tent of Meeting [the covered sanctuary, the Holy Place, and the Holy of Holies], lest they incur guilt and die." 
Numbers18:23 But the Levites shall do the [menial] service of the Tent of Meeting, and they shall bear and remove the iniquity of the people [that is, be answerable for the legal pollutions of the holy things and offer the necessary atonements for unintentional offenses in these matters]. It shall be a statute forever in all your generations, that among the Israelites the Levites have no inheritance [of land]." 
Numbers18:24 But the tithes of the Israelites, which they present as an offering to the Lord, I have given to the Levites to inherit; therefore I have said to them, Among the Israelites they shall have no inheritance. [They have homes and cities and pasturage to use but not to possess as their personal inheritance.]" 
Numbers18:25 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers18:26 Moreover, you shall say to the Levites, When you take from the Israelites the tithe which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall present an offering from it to the Lord, even a tenth of the tithe [paid by the people]." 
Numbers18:27 And what you lift out and keep [your heave offering] shall be credited to you as though it were the grain of the threshing floor or as the fully ripe produce of the vine. 
Numbers18:28 Likewise you shall also present an offering to the Lord of all your tithes which you receive from the Israelites; and therefore you shall give this heave offering [lifted out and kept] for the Lord to Aaron the priest. 
Numbers18:29 Out of all the gifts to you, you shall present every offering due to the Lord, of all the best of it, even the hallowed part lifted out and held back out of it [for the Levites]." 
Numbers18:30 Therefore you shall say to them, When you have lifted out and held back the best from it [and presented it to the Lord by giving it to yourselves, the Levites], then it shall be counted to [you] the Levites just as if it were the increase of the threshing floor or of the winepress." 
Numbers18:31 And you may eat it in every place, you and your households, for it is your reward for your service in the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers18:32 And you shall be guilty of no sin by reason of it when you have lifted out and held back the best of it; neither shall you have polluted the holy things of the Israelites, neither shall you die [because of it]." 
Numbers19:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses and Aaron," 
Numbers19:2 This is the ritual of the law which the Lord has commanded: Tell the Israelites to bring you a red heifer without spot, in which is no blemish, upon which a yoke has never come." 
Numbers19:3 And you shall give her to Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her outside the camp, and she shall be slaughtered before him." 
Numbers19:4 Eleazar the priest shall take some of her blood with his finger and sprinkle it toward the front of the Tent of Meeting seven times. 
Numbers19:5 The heifer shall be burned in his sight, her skin, flesh, blood, and dung." 
Numbers19:6 And the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet [stuff] and cast them into the midst of the burning heifer." 
Numbers19:7 Then the priest shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water; afterward he shall come into the camp, but he shall be unclean until evening." 
Numbers19:8 He who burns the heifer shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and shall be unclean until evening." 
Numbers19:9 And a man who is clean shall collect the ashes of the heifer and put them outside the camp in a clean place, and they shall be kept for the congregation of the Israelites for the water for impurity; it is a sin offering." 
Numbers19:10 And he who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until evening. This shall be to the Israelites and to the stranger who sojourns among them a perpetual statute." 
Numbers19:11 He who touches the dead body of any person shall be unclean for seven days. 
Numbers19:12 He shall purify himself with the water for impurity [made with the ashes of the burned heifer] on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean. But if he does not purify himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean." 
Numbers19:13 Whoever touches the corpse of any who has died and does not purify himself defiles the tabernacle of the Lord, and that person shall be cut off from Israel. Because the water for impurity was not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is still upon him." 
Numbers19:14 This is the law when a man dies in a tent: all who come into the tent and all who are in the tent shall be unclean for seven days. 
Numbers19:15 And every open vessel, which has no covering fastened upon it, is unclean." 
Numbers19:16 And whoever in the open field touches one who is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a dead man, or a grave, shall be unclean for seven days." 
Numbers19:17 And for the unclean, they shall take of the ashes of the burning of the sin offering, and the running water shall be put with it in a vessel." 
Numbers19:18 And a clean person shall take hyssop and dip it in the water and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the persons who were there, and upon him who touched the bone, or the slain, or the naturally dead, or the grave." 
Numbers19:19 And the clean person shall sprinkle [the water for purification] upon the unclean person on the third day and on the seventh day, and on the seventh day the unclean man shall purify himself, and wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at evening." 
Numbers19:20 But the man who is unclean and does not purify himself, that person shall be cut off from among the congregation, because he has defiled the sanctuary of the Lord. The water for purification has not been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean." 
Numbers19:21 And it shall be a perpetual statute to them. He who sprinkles the water for impurity [upon another] shall wash his clothes, and he who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening." 
Numbers19:22 And whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean, and anyone who touches it shall be unclean until evening." 
Numbers20:1 AND THE Israelites, the whole congregation, came into the Wilderness of Zin in the first month. And the people dwelt in Kadesh. Miriam died and was buried there." 
Numbers20:2 Now there was no water for the congregation, and they assembled together against Moses and Aaron." 
Numbers20:3 And the people contended with Moses, and said, Would that we had died when our brethren died [in the plague] before the Lord! [Num. 16:49.]" 
Numbers20:4 And why have you brought up the congregation of the Lord into this wilderness, that we should die here, we and our livestock?" 
Numbers20:5 And why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us into this evil place? It is no place of grain or of figs or of vines or of pomegranates. And there is no water to drink. 
Numbers20:6 Then Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the Tent of Meeting and fell on their faces. Then the glory of the Lord appeared to them. 
Numbers20:7 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers20:8 Take the rod, and assemble the congregation, you and Aaron your brother, and tell the rock before their eyes to give forth its water, and you shall bring forth to them water out of the rock; so you shall give the congregation and their livestock drink." 
Numbers20:9 So Moses took the rod from before the Lord, as He commanded him." 
Numbers20:10 And Moses and Aaron assembled the congregation before the rock and Moses said to them, Hear now, you rebels; must we bring you water out of this rock?" 
Numbers20:11 And Moses lifted up his hand and with his rod he smote the rock twice. And the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock." 
Numbers20:12 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Because you did not believe in (rely on, cling to) Me to sanctify Me in the eyes of the Israelites, you therefore shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them. [Ps. 106:32, 33.]" 
Numbers20:13 These are the waters of Meribah [strife], where the Israelites contended with the Lord and He showed Himself holy among them." 
Numbers20:14 And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, saying, Thus says your kinsman Israel: You know all the adversity and birth pangs that have come upon us [as a nation]:" 
Numbers20:15 How our fathers went down to Egypt; we dwelt there a long time, and the Egyptians dealt evilly with us and our fathers." 
Numbers20:16 But when we cried to the Lord, He heard us and sent an angel and brought us forth out of Egypt. Now behold, we are in Kadesh, a city on your country's edge." 
Numbers20:17 Let us pass, I pray you, through your country. We will not pass through field or vineyard, or drink of the water of the wells. We will go along the king's highway; we will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left until we have passed your borders." 
Numbers20:18 But Edom said to him, You shall not go through, lest I come out against you with the sword." 
Numbers20:19 And the Israelites said to him, We will go by the highway, and if I and my livestock drink of your water, I will pay for it. Only let me pass through on foot, nothing else." 
Numbers20:20 But Edom said, You shall not go through. And Edom came out against Israel with many people and a strong hand." 
Numbers20:21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his territory, so Israel turned away from him." 
Numbers20:22 They journeyed from Kadesh, and the Israelites, even the whole congregation, came to Mount Hor." 
Numbers20:23 And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor, on the border of the land of Edom," 
Numbers20:24 Aaron shall be gathered to his people. For he shall not enter the land which I have given to the Israelites, because you both rebelled against My instructions at the waters of Meribah." 
Numbers20:25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son and bring them up to Mount Hor. 
Numbers20:26 Strip Aaron of his vestments and put them on Eleazar his son, and Aaron shall be gathered to his people, and shall die there." 
Numbers20:27 And Moses did as the Lord commanded; and they went up Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation. 
Numbers20:28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his [priestly] garments and put them on Eleazar his son. And Aaron died there on the mountain top; and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain. 
Numbers20:29 When all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they wept and mourned for him thirty days, all the house of Israel." 
Numbers21:1 WHEN THE Canaanite king of Arad, who dwelt in the South (the Negeb), heard that Israel was coming by the way of Atharim [the route traveled by the spies sent out by Moses], he fought against Israel and took some of them captive." 
Numbers21:2 And Israel vowed a vow to the Lord, and said, If You will indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities." 
Numbers21:3 And the Lord hearkened to Israel and gave over the Canaanites. And they utterly destroyed them and their cities; and the name of the place was called Hormah [a banned or devoted thing]. 
Numbers21:4 And they journeyed from Mount Hor by the way to the Red Sea, to go around the land of Edom, and the people became impatient (depressed, much discouraged), because [of the trials] of the way." 
Numbers21:5 And the people spoke against God and against Moses, Why have you brought us out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no bread, neither is there any water, and we loathe this light (contemptible, unsubstantial) manna." 
Numbers21:6 Then the Lord sent fiery (burning) serpents among the people; and they bit the people, and many Israelites died." 
Numbers21:7 And the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against you; pray to the Lord, that He may take away the serpents from us. So Moses prayed for the people." 
Numbers21:8 And the Lord said to Moses, Make a fiery serpent [of bronze] and set it on a pole; and everyone who is bitten, when he looks at it, shall live." 
Numbers21:9 And Moses made a serpent of bronze and put it on a pole, and if a serpent had bitten any man, when he looked to the serpent of bronze [attentively, expectantly, with a steady and absorbing gaze], he lived." 
Numbers21:10 And the Israelites journeyed on and encamped at Oboth. 
Numbers21:11 They journeyed from Oboth and encamped at Iye-abarim, in the wilderness opposite Moab, toward the sunrise." 
Numbers21:12 From there they journeyed and encamped in the Valley of Zared. 
Numbers21:13 From there they journeyed and encamped on the other side of [the river] Arnon, which is in the desert or wilderness that extends from the frontier of the Amorites; for [the river] Arnon is the boundary of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites." 
Numbers21:14 That is why it is said in the Book of the Wars of the Lord: Waheb in Suphah, and the valleys of [the branches of] the Arnon [River]," 
Numbers21:15 And the slope of the valleys that stretch toward the site of Ar and find support on the border of Moab. 
Numbers21:16 From there the Israelites went on to Beer [a well], the well of which the Lord had said to Moses, Assemble the people together and I will give them water. [John 7:37-39.]" 
Numbers21:17 Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well! Let all sing to it, [Rom. 14:17.]" 
Numbers21:18 The fountain that the princes opened, that the nobles of the people hollowed out from their staves. And from the wilderness or desert [Israel journeyed] to Mattanah," 
Numbers21:19 And from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth," 
Numbers21:20 And from Bamoth to the valley that is in the field of Moab, to the top of Pisgah which looks down upon Jeshimon and the desert." 
Numbers21:21 And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying," 
Numbers21:22 Let me pass through your land. We will not turn aside into field or vineyard; we will not drink the water of the wells. We will go by the king's highway until we have passed your border. 
Numbers21:23 But Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his border. Instead Sihon gathered all his people together and went out against Israel into the wilderness, and came to Jahaz, and he fought against Israel." 
Numbers21:24 And Israel smote the king of the Amorites with the edge of the sword and possessed his land from the river Arnon to the river Jabbok, as far as the Ammonites, for the boundary of the Ammonites was strong." 
Numbers21:25 And Israel took all these cities and dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon and in all its towns." 
Numbers21:26 For Heshbon was the city of Sihon king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab and taken all his land out of his hand, as far as [the river] Arnon." 
Numbers21:27 That is why those who sing ballads say, Come to Heshbon, let the city of Sihon be built and established." 
Numbers21:28 For fire has gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon; it has devoured Ar of Moab and the lords of the heights of the Arnon." 
Numbers21:29 Woe to you, Moab! You are undone, O people of [the god] Chemosh! Moab has given his sons as fugitives and his daughters into captivity to Sihon king of the Amorites." 
Numbers21:30 We have shot them down; Heshbon has perished as far as Dibon, and we have laid them waste as far as Nophah, which reaches to Medeba." 
Numbers21:31 Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites. 
Numbers21:32 And Moses sent to spy out Jazer, and they took its villages and dispossessed the Amorites who were there." 
Numbers21:33 Then they turned and went up by the way of Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei." 
Numbers21:34 But the Lord said to Moses, Do not fear him, for I have delivered him and all his people and his land into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon." 
Numbers21:35 So the Israelites slew Og and his sons and all his people until there was not one left alive, And they possessed his land." 
Numbers22:1 THE ISRAELITES journeyed and encamped in the plains of Moab, on the east side of the Jordan [River] at Jericho." 
Numbers22:2 And Balak [the king of Moab] son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites. 
Numbers22:3 And Moab was terrified at the people and full of dread, because they were many. Moab was distressed and overcome with fear because of the Israelites." 
Numbers22:4 And Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now will this multitude lick up all that is round about us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field. So Balak son of Zippor, the king of the Moabites at that time," 
Numbers22:5 Sent messengers to Balaam [a foreteller of events] son of Beor at Pethor, which is by the [Euphrates] River, even to the land of the children of his people, to say to him, There is a people come out from Egypt; behold, they cover the face of the earth and they have settled down and dwell opposite me." 
Numbers22:6 Now come, I beg of you, curse this people for me, for they are too powerful for me. Perhaps I may be able to defeat them and drive them out of the land, for I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed." 
Numbers22:7 And the elders of Moab and of Midian departed with the rewards of foretelling in their hands; and they came to Balaam and told him the words of Balak. 
Numbers22:8 And he said to them, Lodge here tonight and I will bring you word as the Lord may speak to me. And the princes of Moab abode with Balaam [that night]." 
Numbers22:9 And God came to Balaam, and said, What men are these with you?" 
Numbers22:10 And Balaam said to God, Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, saying," 
Numbers22:11 Behold, the people who came out of Egypt cover the face of the earth; come now, curse them for me. Perhaps I shall be able to fight against them and drive them out." 
Numbers22:12 And God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them; you shall not curse the people, for they are blessed." 
Numbers22:13 And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said to the princes of Balak, Go back to your own land, for the Lord refuses to permit me to go with you." 
Numbers22:14 So the princes of Moab rose up and went to Balak, and said, Balaam refuses to come with us." 
Numbers22:15 Then Balak again sent princes, more of them and more honorable than the first ones." 
Numbers22:16 And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus says Balak son of Zippor, I beg of you, let nothing hinder you from coming to me." 
Numbers22:17 For I will promote you to very great honor and I will do whatever you tell me; so come, I beg of you, curse this people for me." 
Numbers22:18 And Balaam answered the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord my God, to do less or more." 
Numbers22:19 Now therefore, I pray you, tarry here again tonight that I may know what more the Lord will say to me." 
Numbers22:20 And God came to Balaam at night, and said to him, If the men come to call you, rise up and go with them, but still only what I tell you may you do." 
Numbers22:21 And Balaam rose up in the morning and saddled his donkey and went with the princes of Moab. 
Numbers22:22 And God's anger was kindled because he went, and the Angel of the Lord stood in the way as an adversary against him. Now he was riding upon his donkey, and his two servants were with him." 
Numbers22:23 And the donkey saw the Angel of the Lord standing in the way and His sword drawn in His hand, and the donkey turned aside out of the way and went into the field. And Balaam struck the donkey to turn her into the way." 
Numbers22:24 But the Angel of the Lord stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall on this side and a wall on that side." 
Numbers22:25 And when the donkey saw the Angel of the Lord, she thrust herself against the wall and crushed Balaam's foot against it, and he struck her again." 
Numbers22:26 And the Angel of the Lord went further and stood in a narrow place where there was no room to turn, either to the right hand or to the left." 
Numbers22:27 And when the donkey saw the Angel of the Lord, she fell down under Balaam, and Balaam's anger was kindled and he struck the donkey with his staff." 
Numbers22:28 And the Lord opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, What have I done to you that you should strike me these three times?" 
Numbers22:29 And Balaam said to the donkey, Because you have ridiculed and provoked me! I wish there were a sword in my hand, for now I would kill you!" 
Numbers22:30 And the donkey said to Balaam, Am not I your donkey, upon which you have ridden all your life long until this day? Was I ever accustomed to do so to you? And he said, No." 
Numbers22:31 Then the Lord opened Balaam's eyes, and he saw the Angel of the Lord standing in the way with His sword drawn in His hand; and he bowed his head and fell on his face." 
Numbers22:32 And the Angel of the Lord said to him, Why have you struck your donkey these three times? See, I came out to stand against and resist you, for your behavior is willfully obstinate and contrary before Me." 
Numbers22:33 And the ass saw Me and turned from Me these three times. If she had not turned from Me, surely I would have slain you and saved her alive." 
Numbers22:34 Balaam said to the Angel of the Lord, I have sinned, for I did not know You stood in the way against me. But now, if my going displeases You, I will return." 
Numbers22:35 The Angel of the Lord said to Balaam, Go with the men, but you shall speak only what I tell you. So Balaam went with the princes of Balak." 
Numbers22:36 When Balak heard that Balaam had come, he went out to meet him at the city of Moab on the border formed by the Arnon [River], at the farthest end of the boundary." 
Numbers22:37 Balak said to Balaam, Did I not [earnestly] send to you to ask you [to come] to me? Why did you not come? Am not I able to promote you to honor?" 
Numbers22:38 And Balaam said to Balak, Indeed I have come to you, but do I now have any power at all to say anything? The word that God puts in my mouth, that shall I speak." 
Numbers22:39 And Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath-huzoth." 
Numbers22:40 And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent [portions] to Balaam and to the princes who were with him." 
Numbers22:41 And on the following day Balak took Balaam and brought him up into the high places of Bamoth-baal; from there he saw the nearest of the Israelites. 
Numbers23:1 AND BALAAM said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven oxen and seven rams." 
Numbers23:2 And Balak did as Balaam had spoken, and Balak and Balaam offered on each altar a bull and a ram." 
Numbers23:3 And Balaam said to Balak, Stand by your burnt offering and I will go. Perhaps the Lord will come to meet me; and whatever He shows me I will tell you. And he went to a bare height." 
Numbers23:4 God met Balaam, who said to Him, I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered on each altar a bull and a ram." 
Numbers23:5 And the Lord put a speech in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return to Balak and thus shall you speak." 
Numbers23:6 Balaam returned to Balak, who was standing by his burnt sacrifice, he and all the princes of Moab." 
Numbers23:7 Balaam took up his [figurative] speech and said: Balak, the king of Moab, has brought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, saying, Come, curse Jacob for me; and come, violently denounce Israel." 
Numbers23:8 How can I curse those God has not cursed? Or how can I [violently] denounce those the Lord has not denounced? 
Numbers23:9 For from the top of the rocks I see Israel, and from the hills I behold him. Behold, the people [of Israel] shall dwell alone and shall not be reckoned and esteemed among the nations." 
Numbers23:10 Who can count the dust (the descendants) of Jacob and the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous [those who are upright and in right standing with God], and let my last end be like theirs! [Ps. 37:37; Rev. 14:13.]" 
Numbers23:11 And Balak said to Balaam, What have you done to me? I brought you to curse my enemies, and here you have [thoroughly] blessed them instead!" 
Numbers23:12 And Balaam answered, Must I not be obedient and speak what the Lord has put in my mouth?" 
Numbers23:13 Balak said to him, Come with me, I implore you, to another place from which you can see them, though you will see only the nearest and not all of them; and curse them for me from there." 
Numbers23:14 So he took Balaam into the field of Zophim to the top of [Mount] Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar." 
Numbers23:15 Balaam said to Balak, Stand here by your burnt offering while I go to meet the Lord yonder." 
Numbers23:16 And the Lord met Balaam and put a speech in his mouth, and said, Go again to Balak and speak thus." 
Numbers23:17 And when he returned to Balak, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said to him, What has the Lord said?" 
Numbers23:18 Balaam took up his [figurative] discourse and said: Rise up, Balak, and hear; listen [closely] to me, son of Zippor." 
Numbers23:19 God is not a man, that He should tell or act a lie, neither the son of man, that He should feel repentance or compunction [for what He has promised]. Has He said and shall He not do it? Or has He spoken and shall He not make it good?" 
Numbers23:20 You see, I have received His command to bless Israel. He has blessed, and I cannot reverse or qualify it." 
Numbers23:21 [God] has not beheld iniquity in Jacob [for he is forgiven], neither has He seen mischief or perverseness in Israel [for the same reason]. The Lord their God is with Israel, and the shout of praise to their King is among the people. [Rom. 4:7, 8; I John 3:1, 2.]" 
Numbers23:22 God brought them forth out of Egypt; they have as it were the strength of a wild ox. 
Numbers23:23 Surely there is no enchantment with or against Jacob, neither is there any divination with or against Israel. [In due season and even] now it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What has God wrought!" 
Numbers23:24 Behold, a people! They rise up as a lioness and lift themselves up as a lion; he shall not lie down until he devours the prey and drinks the blood of the slain." 
Numbers23:25 And Balak said to Balaam, Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all." 
Numbers23:26 But Balaam answered Balak, Did I not say to you, All the Lord speaks, that I must do?" 
Numbers23:27 And Balak said to Balaam, Come, I implore you; I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God to let you curse them for me from there." 
Numbers23:28 So Balak brought Balaam to the top of [Mount] Peor, that overlooks [the wilderness or desert] Jeshimon." 
Numbers23:29 And Balaam said to Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bulls and seven rams." 
Numbers23:30 And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar." 
Numbers24:1 WHEN BALAAM saw that it pleased the Lord to bless Israel, he did not go as he had done each time before [superstitiously] to meet with omens and signs in the natural world, but he set his face toward the wilderness or desert." 
Numbers24:2 And Balaam lifted up his eyes and he saw Israel abiding in their tents according to their tribes. And the Spirit of God came upon him 
Numbers24:3 And he took up his [figurative] discourse and said: Balaam son of Beor, the man whose eye is opened [at last, to see clearly the purposes and will of God]," 
Numbers24:4 He [Balaam] who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down, but having his eyes open and uncovered, he says:" 
Numbers24:5 How attractive and considerable are your tents, O Jacob, and your tabernacles, O Israel!" 
Numbers24:6 As valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the riverside, as [rare spice] of lignaloes which the Lord has planted, and as cedar trees beside the waters. [Ps. 1:3.]" 
Numbers24:7 [Israel] shall pour water out of his own buckets [have his own sources of rich blessing and plenty], and his offspring shall dwell by many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted." 
Numbers24:8 God brought [Israel] forth out of Egypt; [Israel] has strength like the wild ox; he shall eat up the nations, his enemies, crushing their bones and piercing them through with his arrows." 
Numbers24:9 He couched, he lay down as a lion; and as a lioness, who shall rouse him? Blessed [of God] is he who blesses you [who prays for and contributes to your welfare] and cursed [of God] is he who curses you [who in word, thought, or deed would bring harm upon you]. [Matt. 25:40.]" 
Numbers24:10 Then Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, I called you to curse my enemies, and, behold, you have done nothing but bless them these three times." 
Numbers24:11 Therefore now go back where you belong and do it in a hurry! I had intended to promote you to great honor, but behold, the Lord has held you back from honor." 
Numbers24:12 Balaam said to Balak, Did I not say to your messengers whom you sent to me," 
Numbers24:13 If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the command of the Lord, to do either good or bad of my own will, but what the Lord says, that will I speak?" 
Numbers24:14 And now, behold, I am going to my people; come, I will tell you what this people [Israel] will do to your people [Moab] in the latter days." 
Numbers24:15 And he took up his [figurative] discourse, and said: Balaam son of Beor speaks, the man whose eye is opened speaks," 
Numbers24:16 He speaks, who heard the words of God and knew the knowledge of the Most High, who saw the vision of the Almighty, falling down, but having his eyes open and uncovered:" 
Numbers24:17 I see Him, but not now; I behold Him, but He is not near. A star (Star) shall come forth out of Jacob, and a scepter (Scepter) shall rise out of Israel and shall crush all the corners of Moab and break down all the sons of Sheth [Moab's sons of tumult]. [Matt. 2:2; Rom. 15:12.]" 
Numbers24:18 And Edom shall be [taken as] a possession, [Mount] Seir also shall be dispossessed, who were Israel's enemies, while Israel does valiantly." 
Numbers24:19 Out of Jacob shall one (One) come having dominion and shall destroy the remnant from the city. 
Numbers24:20 [Balaam] looked at Amalek and took up his [prophetic] utterance, and said: Amalek is the foremost of the [neighboring] nations, but in his latter end he shall come to destruction." 
Numbers24:21 And he looked at the Kenites and took up his [prophetic] utterance, and said: Strong is your dwelling place, and you set your nest in the rock." 
Numbers24:22 Nevertheless the Kenites shall be wasted. How long shall Asshur (Assyria) take you away captive? 
Numbers24:23 And he took up his [prophetic] speech, and said: Alas, who shall live when God does this and establishes [Assyria]?" 
Numbers24:24 But ships shall come from Kittim [Cyprus and the greater part of the Mediterranean's east coast] and shall afflict Assyria and Eber [the Hebrews, certain Arabs, and descendants of Nahor], and he [the victor] also shall come to destruction." 
Numbers24:25 And Balaam rose up, returned to his place, and Balak also went his way." 
Numbers25:1 ISRAEL SETTLED down and remained in Shittim, and the people began to play the harlot with the daughters of Moab," 
Numbers25:2 Who invited the [Israelites] to the sacrifices of their gods, and [they] ate and bowed down to Moab's gods." 
Numbers25:3 So Israel joined himself to [the god] Baal of Peor. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. 
Numbers25:4 And the Lord said to Moses, Take all the leaders or chiefs of the people, and hang them before the Lord in the sun [after killing them], that the fierce anger of the Lord may turn away from Israel." 
Numbers25:5 And Moses said to the judges of Israel, Each one of you slay his men who joined themselves to Baal of Peor." 
Numbers25:6 And behold, one of the Israelites came and brought to his brethren a Midianite woman in the sight of Moses and of all the congregation of Israel while they were weeping at the door of the Tent of Meeting [over the divine judgment and the punishment]." 
Numbers25:7 And when Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose up from the midst of the congregation and took a spear in his hand" 
Numbers25:8 And went after the man of Israel into the inner room and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel and the woman through her body. Then the [smiting] plague was stayed from the Israelites." 
Numbers25:9 Nevertheless those who died in the [smiting] plague were 24,000." 
Numbers25:10 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers25:11 Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, has turned my wrath away from the Israelites, in that he was jealous with My jealousy among them, so that I did not consume the Israelites in My jealousy." 
Numbers25:12 Therefore say, Behold, I give to Phinehas the priest My covenant of peace." 
Numbers25:13 And he shall have it, and his descendants after him, the covenant of an everlasting priesthood, because he was jealous for his God and made atonement for the Israelites. [Ps. 106:28-31.]" 
Numbers25:14 Now the man of Israel who was slain with the Midianite woman was Zimri son of Salu, a head of a father's house among the Simeonites." 
Numbers25:15 And the Midianite woman who was slain was Cozbi daughter of Zur; he was head of a father's house in Midian. 
Numbers25:16 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers25:17 Provoke hostilities with the Midianites and attack them," 
Numbers25:18 For they harass you with their wiles with which they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and of Cozbi, the daughter of the prince of Midian, their sister, who was slain on the day of the plague in the matter of Peor." 
Numbers26:1 AFTER THE plague the Lord said to Moses and Eleazar son of Aaron, the priest," 
Numbers26:2 Take a census of all the [male] congregation of the Israelites from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers' houses, all in Israel able to go to war." 
Numbers26:3 And Moses and Eleazar the priest told [the people] in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho," 
Numbers26:4 A census of the people shall be taken from twenty years old and upward, as the Lord commanded Moses. And the Israelites who came forth out of the land of Egypt were:" 
Numbers26:5 Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites;" 
Numbers26:6 Of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites." 
Numbers26:7 These are the families of the Reubenites; and their number was 43,730." 
Numbers26:8 And the son of Pallu: Eliab. 
Numbers26:9 The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. These are the Dathan and Abiram chosen from the congregation who contended against Moses and Aaron in the company of Korah when they contended against the Lord." 
Numbers26:10 And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died and the fire devoured 250 men; and they became a [warning] sign." 
Numbers26:11 But Korah's sons did not die. 
Numbers26:12 The sons of Simeon according to their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites;" 
Numbers26:13 Of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites." 
Numbers26:14 These are the families of the Simeonites, 22,200." 
Numbers26:15 The sons of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites;" 
Numbers26:16 Of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites;" 
Numbers26:17 Of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites." 
Numbers26:18 These, the families of the sons of Gad according to their numbering, totaled 40,500." 
Numbers26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan." 
Numbers26:20 And the sons of Judah according to their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites." 
Numbers26:21 And the sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites." 
Numbers26:22 These, the families of Judah according to their numbering, totaled 76,500." 
Numbers26:23 The sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites;" 
Numbers26:24 Of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites." 
Numbers26:25 These, the families of Issachar according to their numbering, totaled 64,300." 
Numbers26:26 The sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites." 
Numbers26:27 These, the families of the Zebulunites according to their numbering, totaled 60,500." 
Numbers26:28 The sons of Joseph after their families were Manasseh and Ephraim. 
Numbers26:29 The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites (and Machir was the father of Gilead); of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites." 
Numbers26:30 These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites;" 
Numbers26:31 Of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites;" 
Numbers26:32 Of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites." 
Numbers26:33 Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons, but only daughters, and their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah." 
Numbers26:34 These are the families of Manasseh, and their number was 52,700." 
Numbers26:35 These are the sons of Ephraim according to their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites." 
Numbers26:36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites." 
Numbers26:37 These, the families of the sons of Ephraim according to their number, totaled 32,500. These are the sons of Joseph after their families." 
Numbers26:38 The sons of Benjamin according to their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites;" 
Numbers26:39 Of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites." 
Numbers26:40 And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman; of Ard, the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites." 
Numbers26:41 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their families; and their number was 45,600." 
Numbers26:42 These are the sons of Dan according to their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan according to their families." 
Numbers26:43 All the families of the Shuhamites according to their number were 64,400." 
Numbers26:44 Of the sons of Asher according to their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Beriites." 
Numbers26:45 Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites." 
Numbers26:46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. 
Numbers26:47 These, the families of the sons of Asher according to their number, totaled 53,400." 
Numbers26:48 Of the sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites;" 
Numbers26:49 Of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites." 
Numbers26:50 These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and their number totaled 45,400." 
Numbers26:51 This was the number of the Israelites, 601,730." 
Numbers26:52 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers26:53 To these the land shall be divided for inheritance according to the number of names. 
Numbers26:54 To a larger tribe you shall give the greater inheritance, and to a small tribe the less inheritance; to each tribe shall its inheritance be given according to its numbers." 
Numbers26:55 But the land shall be divided by lot; according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit. 
Numbers26:56 According to the lot shall their inheritance be divided between the larger and the smaller. 
Numbers26:57 And these were numbered of the Levites according to their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites." 
Numbers26:58 These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. And Kohath was the father of Amram." 
Numbers26:59 Amram's wife was Jochebed daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt; and she bore to Amram Aaron, Moses, and Miriam their sister." 
Numbers26:60 And to Aaron were born Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
Numbers26:61 But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange and unholy fire before the Lord. 
Numbers26:62 And those numbered of them were 23,000, every male from a month old and upward; for they were not numbered among the Israelites, because there was no inheritance given them among the Israelites." 
Numbers26:63 These were those numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the Israelites in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho." 
Numbers26:64 But among these there was not a man of those numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest when they numbered the Israelites in the Wilderness of Sinai. 
Numbers26:65 For the Lord had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. There was not left a man of them except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun." 
Numbers26:65 For the Lord had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. There was not left a man of them except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun." 
Numbers27:1 THEN CAME the daughters of Zelophehad son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, from the families of Manasseh son of Joseph. The names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah." 
Numbers27:2 They stood before Moses, Eleazar the priest, and the leaders, and all the congregation at the door of the Tent of Meeting, saying," 
Numbers27:3 Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among those who assembled together against the Lord in the company of Korah, but died for his own sin [as did all those who rebelled at Kadesh], and he had no sons. [Num. 14:26-35.]" 
Numbers27:4 Why should the name of our father be removed from his family because he had no son? Give to us a possession among our father's brethren. 
Numbers27:5 Moses brought their case before the Lord. 
Numbers27:6 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers27:7 The daughters of Zelophehad are justified and speak correctly. You shall surely give them an inheritance among their father's brethren, and you shall cause their father's inheritance to pass to them." 
Numbers27:8 And say to the Israelites, If a man dies and has no son, you shall cause his inheritance to pass to his daughter." 
Numbers27:9 If he has no daughter, you shall give his inheritance to his brethren." 
Numbers27:10 If he has no brethren, give his inheritance to his father's brethren." 
Numbers27:11 And if his father has no brethren, then give his inheritance to his next of kin, and he shall possess it. It shall be to the Israelites a statute and ordinance, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers27:12 And the Lord said to Moses, Go up into this mountain of Abarim and behold the land I have given to the Israelites." 
Numbers27:13 And when you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your [departed] people as Aaron your brother was gathered," 
Numbers27:14 For you disobeyed My order in the Wilderness of Zin during the strife of the congregation to uphold My sanctity [by strict obedience to My authority] at the waters before their eyes. [These are the waters of Meribah in Kadesh in the Wilderness of Zin]. [Num. 20:10-12.] 
Numbers27:15 And Moses said to the Lord," 
Numbers27:16 Let the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation" 
Numbers27:17 Who shall go out and come in before them, leading them out and bringing them in, that the congregation of the Lord may not be as sheep which have no shepherd." 
Numbers27:18 The Lord said to Moses, Take Joshua son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand upon him;" 
Numbers27:18 The Lord said to Moses, Take Joshua son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand upon him;" 
Numbers27:19 And set him before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation and give him a charge in their sight. 
Numbers27:20 And put some of your honor and authority upon him, that all the congregation of the Israelites may obey him." 
Numbers27:21 He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him before the Lord by the judgment of the Urim [one of two articles in the priest's breastplate worn when asking counsel of the Lord for the people]. At Joshua's word the people shall go out and come in, both he and all the Israelite congregation with him." 
Numbers27:21 He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him before the Lord by the judgment of the Urim [one of two articles in the priest's breastplate worn when asking counsel of the Lord for the people]. At Joshua's word the people shall go out and come in, both he and all the Israelite congregation with him." 
Numbers27:22 And Moses did as the Lord commanded him. He took Joshua and set him before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation," 
Numbers27:22 And Moses did as the Lord commanded him. He took Joshua and set him before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation," 
Numbers27:23 And he laid his hands upon him and commissioned him, as the Lord commanded through Moses." 
Numbers28:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers28:2 Command the Israelites, saying, My offering, My food for My offerings made by fire, My sweet and soothing odor you shall be careful to offer to Me at its proper time." 
Numbers28:3 And you shall say to the people, This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to the Lord: two male lambs a year old without spot or blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt offering." 
Numbers28:4 One lamb you shall offer in the morning and the other in the evening," 
Numbers28:5 Also a tenth of an ephah of flour for a cereal offering, mixed with a fourth of a hin of beaten oil." 
Numbers28:6 It is a continual burnt offering which was ordained in Mount Sinai for a sweet and soothing odor, an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Numbers28:7 Its drink offering shall be a fourth of a hin for each lamb; in the Holy Place you shall pour out a fermented drink offering to the Lord. 
Numbers28:8 And the other lamb you shall offer in the evening; like the cereal offering of the morning and like its drink offering, you shall offer it, an offering made by fire, a sweet and soothing odor to the Lord." 
Numbers28:9 And on the Sabbath day two male lambs a year old without spot or blemish, and two-tenths of an ephah of flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering." 
Numbers28:10 This is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers28:11 And at the beginning of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to the Lord: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without spot or blemish;" 
Numbers28:12 And three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a cereal offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram." 
Numbers28:13 And a tenth part of fine flour mixed with oil as a cereal offering, for each lamb, for a burnt offering of a sweet and pleasant fragrance, an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Numbers28:14 And their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, and a third of a hin for a ram, and a fourth of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year." 
Numbers28:15 And one male goat for a sin offering to the Lord,it shall be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering. 
Numbers28:16 On the fourteenth day of the first month is the Lord's Passover. 
Numbers28:17 On the fifteenth day of this month is a feast; for seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. 
Numbers28:18 On the first day there shall be a holy [summoned] assembly; you shall do no servile work that day. 
Numbers28:19 But you shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to the Lord: two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish to the best of your knowledge." 
Numbers28:20 And their cereal offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil; three-tenths of an ephah shall you offer for a bull, and two-tenths for a ram;" 
Numbers28:21 A tenth shall you offer for each of the seven male lambs," 
Numbers28:22 Also one male goat for a sin offering to make atonement for you. 
Numbers28:23 You shall offer these in addition to the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering." 
Numbers28:24 In this way you shall offer daily for seven days the food of an offering made by fire, a sweet and soothing odor to the Lord; it shall be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering." 
Numbers28:25 And on the seventh day you shall have a holy [summoned] assembly; you shall do no work befitting a slave or a servant. 
Numbers28:26 Also in the day of the firstfruits, when you offer a cereal offering of new grain to the Lord at your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy [summoned] assembly; you shall do no servile work." 
Numbers28:27 But you shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet, pleasing, and soothing fragrance to the Lord: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old," 
Numbers28:28 And their cereal offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for one ram," 
Numbers28:29 A tenth for each of the seven male lambs," 
Numbers28:30 And one male goat to make atonement for you. 
Numbers28:31 You shall offer them in addition to the continual burnt offering and its cereal offering and their drink offerings. See that they are without blemish. 
Numbers29:1 ON THE first day of the seventh month [on New Year's Day of the civil year], you shall have a holy [summoned] assembly; you shall do no servile work. It is a day of blowing of trumpets for you [everyone blowing who wishes, proclaiming that the glad New Year has come and that the great Day of Atonement and the Feast of Tabernacles are now approaching]." 
Numbers29:2 And you shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet and pleasing odor to the Lord: one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old without blemish." 
Numbers29:3 Their cereal offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil, three-tenths of an ephah for a bull, two-tenths for a ram," 
Numbers29:4 And one-tenth of an ephah for each of the seven lambs," 
Numbers29:5 And one male goat for a sin offering to make atonement for you. 
Numbers29:6 These are in addition to the burnt offering of the new moon and its cereal offering, and the daily burnt offering and its cereal offering, and their drink offerings, according to the ordinance for them, for a pleasant and soothing fragrance, an offering made by fire to the Lord." 
Numbers29:7 And you shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month a holy [summoned] assembly; [it is the great Day of Atonement, a day of humiliation] and you shall humble and abase yourselves; you shall not do any work in it." 
Numbers29:8 But you shall offer a burnt offering to the Lord for a sweet and soothing fragrance: one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old. See that they are without blemish." 
Numbers29:9 And their cereal offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil, three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths for the one ram," 
Numbers29:10 A tenth for each of the seven male lambs," 
Numbers29:11 One male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering and its cereal offering, and their drink offerings." 
Numbers29:12 And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy [summoned] assembly; you shall do no servile work, and you shall keep a feast to the Lord for seven days." 
Numbers29:13 And you shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet and pleasing fragrance to the Lord: thirteen young bulls, two rams, and fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish." 
Numbers29:14 And their cereal offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil, three-tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two-tenths for each of the two rams," 
Numbers29:15 And a tenth part for each of the fourteen male lambs," 
Numbers29:16 Also one male goat for a sin offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering, its cereal offering, and its drink offering." 
Numbers29:17 And on the second day you shall offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without spot or blemish," 
Numbers29:18 With their cereal offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs, by number according to the ordinance," 
Numbers29:19 Also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its cereal offering, and their drink offerings." 
Numbers29:20 And on the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish," 
Numbers29:21 With their cereal offering and drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs, by number according to the ordinance," 
Numbers29:22 And one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its cereal offering, and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:23 On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, and fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish," 
Numbers29:24 Their cereal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall be by number according to the ordinance," 
Numbers29:25 And one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its cereal offering, and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:26 And on the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, and fourteen male lambs a year old without spot or blemish," 
Numbers29:27 And their cereal offering and drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs, by number according to the ordinance," 
Numbers29:28 And one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its cereal offering, and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:29 And on the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, and fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish," 
Numbers29:30 And their cereal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs, by number according to the ordinance," 
Numbers29:31 And one goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its cereal offering, and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:32 And on the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, and fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish," 
Numbers29:33 And their cereal and drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs, by number according to the ordinance." 
Numbers29:34 And one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its cereal offering, and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:35 On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly; you shall do no servile work. 
Numbers29:36 You shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a sweet and pleasing fragrance to the Lord: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish," 
Numbers29:37 Their cereal offering and drink offerings for the bull, the ram, and the lambs shall be by number according to the ordinance," 
Numbers29:38 And one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its cereal offering, and its drink offerings." 
Numbers29:39 These you shall offer to the Lord at your appointed feasts, besides the offerings you have vowed and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, cereal offerings, drink offerings, and peace offerings." 
Numbers29:40 And Moses told the Israelites all that the Lord commanded him. 
Numbers30:1 AND MOSES said to the heads or leaders of the tribes of Israel, This is the thing which the Lord has commanded:" 
Numbers30:2 If a man vows a vow to the Lord or swears an oath to bind himself by a pledge, he shall not break and profane his word; he shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth." 
Numbers30:3 Also when a woman vows a vow to the Lord and binds herself by a pledge, being in her father's house in her youth," 
Numbers30:4 And her father hears her vow and her pledge with which she has bound herself and he offers no objection, then all her vows shall stand and every pledge with which she has bound herself shall stand." 
Numbers30:5 But if her father refuses to allow her [to carry out her vow] on the day that he hears about it, not any of her vows or of her pledges with which she has bound herself shall stand. And the Lord will forgive her because her father refused to let her [carry out her purpose]." 
Numbers30:6 And if she is married to a husband while her vows are upon her or she has bound herself by a rash utterance 
Numbers30:7 And her husband hears of it and holds his peace concerning it on the day that he hears it, then her vows shall stand and her pledge with which she bound herself shall stand." 
Numbers30:8 But if her husband refuses to allow her [to keep her vow or pledge] on the day that he hears of it, then he shall make void and annul her vow which is upon her and the rash utterance of her lips by which she bound herself, and the Lord will forgive her." 
Numbers30:9 But the vow of a widow or of a divorced woman, with which she has bound herself, shall stand against her." 
Numbers30:10 And if she vowed in her husband's house or bound herself by a pledge with an oath 
Numbers30:11 And her husband heard it and did not oppose or prohibit her, then all her vows and every pledge with which she bound herself shall stand." 
Numbers30:12 But if her husband positively made them void on the day he heard them, then whatever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows or concerning her pledge of herself shall not stand. Her husband has annulled them, and the Lord will forgive her." 
Numbers30:13 Every vow and every binding oath to humble or afflict herself, her husband may establish it or her husband may annul it." 
Numbers30:14 But if her husband altogether holds his peace [concerning the matter] with her from day to day, then he establishes and confirms all her vows or all her pledges which are upon her. He establishes them because he said nothing to [restrain] her on the day he heard of them." 
Numbers30:15 But if he shall nullify them after he hears of them, then he shall be responsible for and bear her iniquity." 
Numbers30:16 These are the statutes which the Lord commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, and between a father and his daughter while in her youth in her father's house." 
Numbers31:1 THE LORD said to Moses," 
Numbers31:2 Avenge the Israelites on the Midianites; afterward you shall be gathered to your [departed] people. 
Numbers31:3 And Moses said to the people, Arm men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian and execute the Lord's vengeance on Midian [for seducing Israel]. [Num. 25:16-18.]" 
Numbers31:4 From each of the tribes of Israel you shall send 1,000 to the war." 
Numbers31:5 So there were provided out of the thousands of Israel 1,000 from each tribe, 12,000 armed for war." 
Numbers31:6 And Moses sent them to the war, 1,000 from each tribe, together with Phinehas son of Eleazar, the priest, with the [sacred] vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets to blow the alarm in his hand." 
Numbers31:7 They fought with Midian, as the Lord commanded Moses, and slew every male," 
Numbers31:8 Including the five kings of Midian: Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba; also Balaam son of Beor they slew with the sword. [Num. 22:31-35; Neh. 13:1, 2.]" 
Numbers31:9 And the Israelites took captive the women of Midian and their little ones, and all their cattle, their flocks, and their goods as booty." 
Numbers31:10 They burned all the cities in which they dwelt, and all their encampments." 
Numbers31:11 And they took all the spoil and all the prey, both of man and of beast." 
Numbers31:12 Then they brought the captives, the prey, and the spoil to Moses and Eleazar the priest and to the congregation of the Israelites at the camp on the plains of Moab by Jordan at Jericho." 
Numbers31:13 Moses and Eleazar the priest and all the princes or leaders of the congregation went to meet them outside the camp. 
Numbers31:14 But Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, who served in the war." 
Numbers31:15 And Moses said to them, Have you let all the women live?" 
Numbers31:16 Behold, these caused the Israelites by the counsel of Balaam to trespass and act treacherously against the Lord in the matter of Peor, and so a [smiting] plague came among the congregation of the Lord. [Num. 25:1-9; 31:8.]" 
Numbers31:17 Now therefore, kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman who is not a virgin." 
Numbers31:18 But all the young girls who have not known man by lying with him keep alive for yourselves. 
Numbers31:19 Encamp outside the camp seven days; whoever has killed any person and whoever has touched any slain, purify yourselves and your captives on the third day and on the seventh day." 
Numbers31:20 You shall purify every garment, all that is made of skins, all work of goats' hair, and every article of wood." 
Numbers31:21 And Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who had gone to battle, This is the statute of the law which the Lord has commanded Moses:" 
Numbers31:22 Only the gold, the silver, the bronze, the iron, the tin, and the lead," 
Numbers31:23 Everything that can stand fire, you shall make go through fire, and it shall be clean. Nevertheless it shall also be purified with the water of impurity; and all that cannot stand fire [such as fabrics] you shall pass through water." 
Numbers31:24 And you shall wash your clothes on the seventh day and you shall be clean; then you shall come into the camp. 
Numbers31:25 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers31:26 Take the count of the prey that was taken, both of man and of beast, you and Eleazar the priest and the heads of the fathers' houses of the congregation." 
Numbers31:27 Divide the booty into two [equal] parts between the warriors who went out to battle and all the congregation. 
Numbers31:28 And levy a tribute to the Lord from the warriors who went to battle, one out of every 500 of the persons, the oxen, the donkeys, and the flocks." 
Numbers31:29 Take [this tribute] from the warriors' half and give it to Eleazar the priest as an offering to the Lord. 
Numbers31:30 And from the Israelites' half [of the booty] you shall take one out of every fifty of the persons, the oxen, the donkeys, the flocks, and of all livestock, and give them to the Levites who have charge of the tabernacle of the Lord." 
Numbers31:31 And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the Lord commanded Moses. 
Numbers31:32 The prey, besides the booty which the men of war took, was 675,000 sheep," 
Numbers31:33 And 72,000 cattle," 
Numbers31:34 And 61,000 donkeys," 
Numbers31:35 And 32,000 persons in all, of the women who were virgins." 
Numbers31:36 And the half share, the portion of those who went to war, was: 337,500 sheep," 
Numbers31:37 And the Lord's tribute of the sheep was 675; 
Numbers31:38 The cattle were 36,000, of which the Lord's tribute was 72;" 
Numbers31:39 The donkeys were 30,500, of which the Lord's tribute was 61;" 
Numbers31:40 The persons were 16,000, of whom the Lord's tribute was 32 persons." 
Numbers31:41 And Moses gave the tribute which was the Lord's offering to Eleazar the priest, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers31:42 And the Israelites' half Moses separated from that of the warriors', 
Numbers31:43 Now the congregation's half was 337,500 sheep," 
Numbers31:44 And 36,000 cattle," 
Numbers31:45 And 30,500 donkeys," 
Numbers31:46 And 16,000 persons," 
Numbers31:47 Even of the Israelites' half, Moses took one of every 50, both of persons and of beasts, and gave them to the Levites, who had charge of the tabernacle of the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Numbers31:48 And the officers who were over the thousands of the army, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, came to Moses." 
Numbers31:49 They told [him], Your servants have counted the warriors under our command, and not one man of us is missing." 
Numbers31:50 We have brought as the Lord's offering what each man obtained,articles of gold, armlets, bracelets, signet rings, earrings, neck ornaments,to make atonement for ourselves before the Lord." 
Numbers31:51 Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from them, all the wrought articles." 
Numbers31:52 And all the gold of the offering that they offered to the Lord from the commanders of thousands and of hundreds was 16,750 shekels." 
Numbers31:53 For the men of war had taken booty, every man for himself." 
Numbers31:54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest received the gold from the commanders of thousands and of hundreds and brought it into the Tent of Meeting as a memorial for the Israelites before the Lord. 
Numbers32:1 NOW THE sons of Reuben and of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle, and they saw the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead [on the east side of the Jordan], and behold, the place was suitable for cattle." 
Numbers32:2 So the sons of Gad and of Reuben came and said to Moses, Eleazar the priest, and the leaders of the congregation," 
Numbers32:3 [The country around] Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Sebam, Nebo, and Beon," 
Numbers32:4 The land the Lord smote before the congregation of Israel, is a land for cattle, and your servants have cattle." 
Numbers32:5 And they said, If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants for a possession. Do not take us over the Jordan." 
Numbers32:6 And Moses said to the sons of Gad and of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war while you sit here?" 
Numbers32:7 Why do you discourage the hearts of the Israelites from going over into the land which the Lord has given them? 
Numbers32:8 Thus your fathers did when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to see the land! 
Numbers32:9 For when they went up to the Valley of Eshcol and saw the land, they discouraged the hearts of the Israelites from going into the land the Lord had given them." 
Numbers32:10 And the Lord's anger was kindled on that day and He swore, saying," 
Numbers32:11 Surely none of the men who came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, because they have not wholly followed Me," 
Numbers32:12 Except Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua son of Nun, for they have wholly followed the Lord." 
Numbers32:12 Except Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite and Joshua son of Nun, for they have wholly followed the Lord." 
Numbers32:13 And the Lord's anger was kindled against Israel and He made them wander in the wilderness for forty years, until all the generation that had done evil in the sight of the Lord was consumed." 
Numbers32:14 And behold, you are risen up in your fathers' stead, a brood of sinful men, to increase still more the fierce anger of the Lord against Israel." 
Numbers32:15 For if you turn from following Him, He will again abandon them in the wilderness, and you will destroy all this people." 
Numbers32:16 But they came near to him and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our flocks and walled settlements for our little ones." 
Numbers32:17 But we will be armed and ready to go before the Israelites until we have brought them to their place. Our little ones shall dwell in the fortified settlements because of the people of the land. 
Numbers32:18 We will not return to our homes until the Israelites have inherited every man his inheritance. 
Numbers32:19 For we will not inherit with them on the [west] side of the Jordan and beyond, because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side of the Jordan eastward." 
Numbers32:20 Moses replied, If you will do as you say, going armed before the Lord to war," 
Numbers32:21 And every armed man of you will pass over the Jordan before the Lord until He has driven out His enemies before Him 
Numbers32:22 And the land is subdued before the Lord, then afterward you shall return and be guiltless [in this matter] before the Lord and before Israel, and this land shall be your possession before the Lord." 
Numbers32:23 But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against the Lord; and be sure your sin will find you out." 
Numbers32:24 Build settlements for your little ones, and folds for your sheep, and do that of which you have spoken." 
Numbers32:25 And the sons of Gad and of Reuben said to Moses, Your servants will do as my lord commands." 
Numbers32:26 Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle shall be there in the cities of Gilead." 
Numbers32:27 But your servants will pass over, every man armed for war, before the Lord to battle, as my lord says." 
Numbers32:28 So Moses gave command concerning them to Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of Israel. 
Numbers32:28 So Moses gave command concerning them to Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of Israel. 
Numbers32:29 And Moses said to them, If the sons of Gad and Reuben will pass with you over the Jordan, every man armed to battle before the Lord, and the land shall be subdued before you, then you shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession." 
Numbers32:30 But if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan." 
Numbers32:31 The sons of Gad and Reuben answered, As the Lord has said to your servants, so will we do." 
Numbers32:32 We will pass over armed before the Lord into the land of Canaan, that the possession of our inheritance on this side of the Jordan may be ours." 
Numbers32:33 Moses gave to them, to the sons of Gad and of Reuben and to half the tribe of Manasseh son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan,the land with its cities and their territories, even the cities round about the country." 
Numbers32:34 And the sons of Gad built Dibon, Ataroth, Aroer," 
Numbers32:35 Atroth-shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah," 
Numbers32:36 Beth-nimrah, and Beth-haran, fortified cities, and folds for sheep." 
Numbers32:37 And the sons of Reuben built Heshbon, Elealeh, Kiriathaim," 
Numbers32:38 Nebo, and Baal-meon,their names were to be changed,and Shibmah; and they gave other names to the cities they built." 
Numbers32:39 And the sons of Machir son of Manasseh went to Gilead and took it and dispossessed the Amorites who were in it. 
Numbers32:40 And Moses gave Gilead to Machir son of Manasseh, and he settled in it." 
Numbers32:41 Jair son of Manasseh took their villages and called them Havvoth-jair. 
Numbers32:42 And Nobah took Kenath and its villages and called it Nobah after his own name. 
Numbers33:1 THESE ARE the stages of the journeys of the Israelites by which they went out of the land of Egypt by their hosts under the leadership of Moses and Aaron. 
Numbers33:2 Moses recorded their starting places, as the Lord commanded, stage by stage; and these are their journeying stages from their starting places:" 
Numbers33:3 They set out from Rameses on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the day after the Passover the Israelites went out [of Egypt] with a high hand and triumphantly in the sight of all the Egyptians," 
Numbers33:4 While the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn whom the Lord had struck down among them; upon their gods also the Lord executed judgments. 
Numbers33:5 The Israelites set out from Rameses and encamped in Succoth. 
Numbers33:6 And they departed from Succoth and encamped in Etham, which is at the edge of the wilderness." 
Numbers33:7 They set out from Etham and turned back to Pi-hahiroth, east of Baal-zephon, and they encamped before Migdol." 
Numbers33:8 And they journeyed from before Pi-hahiroth and passed through the midst of the [Red] Sea into the wilderness; and they went a three days' journey in the Wilderness of Etham and encamped at Marah. 
Numbers33:9 They journeyed from Marah and came to Elim; at Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there." 
Numbers33:10 They set out from Elim and encamped by the Red Sea. 
Numbers33:11 They journeyed from the Red Sea and encamped in the Wilderness of Sin. 
Numbers33:12 And they traveled on from the Wilderness of Sin and encamped at Dophkah. 
Numbers33:13 And they departed from Dophkah and encamped at Alush. 
Numbers33:14 And they set out from Alush and encamped at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink." 
Numbers33:15 And they departed from Rephidim and encamped in the Wilderness of Sinai. 
Numbers33:16 And they journeyed from the Wilderness of Sinai and encamped at Kibroth-hattaavah. 
Numbers33:17 And they traveled on from Kibroth-hattaavah and encamped at Hazeroth. 
Numbers33:18 And they journeyed from Hazeroth and encamped at Rithmah. 
Numbers33:19 And they departed from Rithmah and encamped at Rimmon-perez. 
Numbers33:20 And they departed from Rimmon-perez and encamped at Libnah. 
Numbers33:21 And they removed from Libnah and encamped at Rissah. 
Numbers33:22 And they journeyed from Rissah and encamped at Kehelathah. 
Numbers33:23 And they went from Kehelathah and encamped at Mount Shepher. 
Numbers33:24 And they removed from Mount Shepher and encamped at Haradah. 
Numbers33:25 And they set out from Haradah and encamped at Makheloth. 
Numbers33:26 And they removed from Makheloth and encamped at Tahath. 
Numbers33:27 And they departed from Tahath and encamped at Terah. 
Numbers33:28 And they removed from Terah and encamped at Mithkah. 
Numbers33:29 And they set out from Mithkah and encamped at Hashmonah. 
Numbers33:30 And they traveled on from Hashmonah and encamped at Moseroth. 
Numbers33:31 And they journeyed from Moseroth and pitched in Bene-jaakan. 
Numbers33:32 And they set out from Bene-jaakan and encamped at Hor-haggidgad. 
Numbers33:33 And they set out from Hor-haggidgad and encamped at Jotbathah. 
Numbers33:34 And they journeyed from Jotbathah and encamped at Abronah. 
Numbers33:35 And they traveled on from Abronah and encamped at Ezion-geber. 
Numbers33:36 And they removed from Ezion-geber and encamped in the Wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh." 
Numbers33:37 And they removed from Kadesh and encamped at Mount Hor, on the edge of Edom." 
Numbers33:38 Aaron the priest went up on Mount Hor at the command of the Lord, and died there in the fortieth year after the Israelites came out of Egypt, the first day of the fifth month. [Num. 20:23-29.]" 
Numbers33:39 Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor. 
Numbers33:40 The Canaanite king of Arad, who lived in the South (the Negeb) in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the Israelites." 
Numbers33:41 They set out from Mount Hor and encamped at Zalmonah. 
Numbers33:42 And they set out from Zalmonah and encamped at Punon. 
Numbers33:43 And they set out from Punon and encamped at Oboth. 
Numbers33:44 And they traveled on from Oboth and encamped at Iye-abarim, on the border of Moab." 
Numbers33:45 And they departed from Iyim and encamped at Dibon-gad. 
Numbers33:46 And they set out from Dibon-gad and encamped in Almon-diblathaim. 
Numbers33:47 And they traveled on from Almon-diblathaim and encamped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo." 
Numbers33:48 And they departed from the mountains of Abarim and encamped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho. 
Numbers33:49 And they encamped by the Jordan from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab. 
Numbers33:50 And the Lord said to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho," 
Numbers33:51 Tell the Israelites, When you have passed over the Jordan into the land of Canaan," 
Numbers33:52 Then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land before you and destroy all their figured stones and all their molten images and completely demolish all their [idolatrous] high places," 
Numbers33:53 And you shall take possession of the land and dwell in it, for to you I have given the land to possess it." 
Numbers33:54 You shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the large tribe you shall give a larger inheritance, and to the small tribe you shall give a smaller inheritance. Wherever the lot falls to any man, that shall be his. According to the tribes of your fathers you shall inherit." 
Numbers33:55 But if you will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those you let remain of them shall be as pricks in your eyes and as thorns in your sides, and they shall vex you in the land in which you dwell." 
Numbers33:56 And as I thought to do to them, so will I do to you." 
Numbers34:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers34:2 Command the Israelites, When you come into the land of Canaan (which is the land that shall be yours for an inheritance, the land of Canaan according to its boundaries)," 
Numbers34:3 Your south side shall be from the Wilderness of Zin along the side of Edom, and your southern boundary from the end of the Salt [Dead] Sea eastward." 
Numbers34:4 Your boundary shall turn south of the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass on to Zin, and its end shall be south of Kadesh-barnea. Then it shall go on to Hazar-addar and pass on to Azmon." 
Numbers34:5 Then the boundary shall turn from Azmon to the Brook of Egypt, and it shall terminate at the [Mediterranean] Sea." 
Numbers34:6 For the western boundary you shall have the Great Sea and its coast. 
Numbers34:7 And this shall be your north border: from the Great Sea mark out your boundary line to Mount Hor; 
Numbers34:8 From Mount Hor you shall mark out your boundary to the entrance of Hamath, and its end shall be at Zedad;" 
Numbers34:9 Then the northern boundary shall go on to Ziphron, and the end of it shall be at Hazar-enan." 
Numbers34:10 You shall mark out your eastern boundary from Hazar-enan to Shepham; 
Numbers34:11 The boundary shall go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of Ain and shall descend and reach to the shoulder of the Sea of Chinnereth [the Sea of Galilee] on the east; 
Numbers34:12 And the boundary shall go down to the Jordan, and the end shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land with its boundaries all around." 
Numbers34:13 Moses commanded the Israelites, This is the land you shall inherit by lot, which the Lord has commanded to give to the nine tribes and the half-tribe [of Manasseh]," 
Numbers34:14 For the tribes of the sons of Reuben and of Gad by their fathers' houses have received their inheritance, and also the half-tribe of Manasseh." 
Numbers34:15 The two and a half tribes have received their inheritance east of the Jordan at Jericho, toward the sunrise." 
Numbers34:16 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers34:17 These are the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun. 
Numbers34:17 These are the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun. 
Numbers34:18 And [with them] you shall take one head or prince of each tribe to divide the land for inheritance. 
Numbers34:19 The names of the men are: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh;" 
Numbers34:20 Of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemuel son of Ammihud;" 
Numbers34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad son of Chislon;" 
Numbers34:22 Of the tribe of the sons of Dan a leader, Bukki son of Jogli;" 
Numbers34:23 Of the sons of Joseph: of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh a leader, Hanniel son of Ephod;" 
Numbers34:24 And of the tribe of the sons of Ephraim a leader, Kemuel son of Shiphtan;" 
Numbers34:25 And of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun a leader, Elizaphan son of Parnach;" 
Numbers34:26 And of the tribe of the sons of Issachar a leader, Paltiel son of Azzan;" 
Numbers34:27 And of the tribe of the sons of Asher a leader, Ahihud son of Shelomi;" 
Numbers34:28 And of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali a leader, Pedahel son of Ammihud." 
Numbers34:29 These are the men whom the Lord commanded to divide the inheritance to the Israelites in the land of Canaan. 
Numbers35:1 AND THE Lord said to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho," 
Numbers35:2 Command the Israelites that they give to the Levites from the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and [suburb] pasturelands round about the cities' walls you shall give to the Levites also. 
Numbers35:3 They shall have the cities to dwell in and their [suburb] pasturelands shall be for their cattle, for their wealth [in flocks], and for all their beasts." 
Numbers35:4 And the pasturelands of the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall reach from the wall of the city and outward 1,000 cubits round about." 
Numbers35:5 You shall measure from the wall of the city outward on the east, south, west, and north sides 2,000 cubits, the city being in the center. This shall belong to [the Levites] as [suburb] pasturelands for their cities." 
Numbers35:6 Of the cities which you shall give to the Levites there shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall give for the manslayer to flee into; and in addition to them you shall give forty-two cities." 
Numbers35:7 So all the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall be forty-eight; you shall give them with their adjacent [suburb] pasturelands. 
Numbers35:8 As for the cities, you shall give from the possession of the Israelites, from the larger tribes you shall take many and from the smaller tribes few; each tribe shall give of its cities to the Levites in proportion to its inheritance." 
Numbers35:9 And the Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers35:10 Say to the Israelites, When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan," 
Numbers35:11 Then you shall select cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the slayer who kills any person unintentionally and unawares may flee there." 
Numbers35:12 And the cities shall be to you for refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer may not die until he has had a fair trial before the congregation." 
Numbers35:13 And of the cities which you give there shall be your six cities for refuge. 
Numbers35:14 You shall give three cities on this [east] side of the Jordan and three cities in the land of Canaan, to be cities of refuge." 
Numbers35:15 These six cities shall be a refuge for the Israelites and for the stranger and the temporary resident among them; that anyone who kills any person unintentionally and unawares may flee there. 
Numbers35:16 But if he struck him down with an instrument of iron so that he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:17 And if he struck him down by throwing a stone, by which a person may die, and he died, he is a murderer; the murderer shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:18 Or if he struck him down with a weapon of wood in his hand, by which one may die, and he died, the offender is a murderer; he shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:19 The avenger of blood shall himself slay the murderer; when he meets him, he shall slay him." 
Numbers35:20 But if he stabbed him through hatred or hurled at him by lying in wait so that he died 
Numbers35:21 Or in enmity struck him down with his hand so that he died, he that smote him shall surely be put to death; he is a murderer. The avenger of blood shall slay the murderer when he meets him." 
Numbers35:22 But if he stabbed him suddenly without enmity or threw anything at or upon him without lying in wait 
Numbers35:23 Or with any stone with which a man may be killed, not seeing him, and threw it at him so that he died, and was not his enemy nor sought to harm him," 
Numbers35:24 Then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the avenger of blood according to these ordinances. 
Numbers35:25 And the congregation shall rescue the manslayer from the hand of the avenger of blood and restore him to his city of refuge to which he had fled; and he shall live in it until the high priest dies, who was anointed with the sacred oil." 
Numbers35:26 But if the slayer shall at any time come outside the limits of his city of refuge to which he had fled 
Numbers35:27 And the avenger of blood finds him outside the limits of his city of refuge and kills the manslayer, he shall not be guilty of blood" 
Numbers35:28 Because the manslayer should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest. But after the high priest's death the manslayer shall return to the land of his possession. 
Numbers35:29 And these things shall be for a statute and ordinance to you throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
Numbers35:30 Whoever kills any person [intentionally], the murderer shall be put to death on the testimony of witnesses; but no one shall be put to death on the testimony of one witness." 
Numbers35:31 Moreover, you shall take no ransom for the life of a murderer guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to death." 
Numbers35:32 And you shall accept no ransom for him who has fled to his city of refuge, so that he may return to dwell in the land before the death of the high priest." 
Numbers35:33 So you shall not pollute the land in which you live; for blood pollutes the land, and no atonement can be made for the land for the blood shed in it, but by the blood of him who shed it." 
Numbers35:34 And you shall not defile the land in which you live, in the midst of which I dwell, for I, the Lord, dwell in the midst of the people of Israel." 
Numbers36:1 THE HEADS of the fathers' houses of the families of the sons of Gilead son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the fathers' houses of the sons of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and the leaders, the heads of the fathers' houses of the Israelites." 
Numbers36:2 They said, The Lord commanded [you] my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the Israelites; and my lord was commanded by the Lord to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters." 
Numbers36:3 But if they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the Israelites, then their inheritance will be taken from that of our fathers and added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they are received and belong; so it will be taken out of the lot of our inheritance." 
Numbers36:4 And when the Jubilee of the Israelites comes, then their inheritance will be added to that of the tribe to which they are received and belong; so will their inheritance be taken away from that of the tribe of our fathers." 
Numbers36:5 And Moses commanded the Israelites according to the word of the Lord, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph is right." 
Numbers36:6 This is what the Lord commands concerning the daughters of Zelophehad: Let them marry whom they think best; only they shall marry within the family of the tribe of their father. 
Numbers36:7 So shall no inheritance of the Israelites be transferred from tribe to tribe, for every one of the Israelites shall cling to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers." 
Numbers36:8 And every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the Israelites shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, so that the Israelites may each one possess the inheritance of his fathers." 
Numbers36:9 So shall no inheritance be transferred from one tribe to another, but each of the tribes of the Israelites shall cling to its own inheritance." 
Numbers36:10 The daughters of Zelophehad did as the Lord commanded Moses. 
Numbers36:11 For Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to sons of their father's brothers." 
Numbers36:12 They married into the families of the sons of Manasseh son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father." 
Numbers36:13 These are the commandments and ordinances which the Lord commanded the Israelites through Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan [River] at Jericho. 
Deuteronomy1:1 THESE ARE the words which Moses spoke to all Israel [still] on the [east] side of the Jordan [River] in the wilderness, in the Arabah [the deep valley running north and south from the eastern arm of the Red Sea to beyond the Dead Sea], over near Suph, between Paran and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab." 
Deuteronomy1:2 It is [only] eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh-barnea [on Canaan's border; yet Israel took forty years to get beyond it]. 
Deuteronomy1:3 And in the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the Israelites according to all that the Lord had given him in commandment to them," 
Deuteronomy1:4 After He had defeated Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth [and] Edrei." 
Deuteronomy1:5 Beyond (east of) the Jordan in the land of Moab, Moses began to explain this law, saying," 
Deuteronomy1:6 The Lord our God said to us in Horeb, You have dwelt long enough on this mountain." 
Deuteronomy1:7 Turn and take up your journey and go to the hill country of the Amorites, and to all their neighbors in the Arabah, in the hill country, in the lowland, in the South (the Negeb), and on the coast, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates." 
Deuteronomy1:8 Behold, I have set the land before you; go in and take possession of the land which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to them and to their descendants after them." 
Deuteronomy1:9 I said to you at that time, I am not able to bear you alone." 
Deuteronomy1:10 The Lord your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day as the stars of the heavens for multitude." 
Deuteronomy1:11 May the Lord, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are and bless you as He has promised you!" 
Deuteronomy1:12 How can I bear alone the weariness and pressure and burden of you and your strife? 
Deuteronomy1:13 Choose wise, understanding, experienced, and respected men according to your tribes, and I will make them heads over you." 
Deuteronomy1:14 And you answered me, The thing which you have spoken is good for us to do." 
Deuteronomy1:15 So I took the heads of your tribes, wise, experienced, and respected men, and made them heads over you, commanders of thousands, and hundreds, and fifties, and tens, and officers according to your tribes." 
Deuteronomy1:16 And I charged your judges at that time: Hear the cases between your brethren and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the stranger or sojourner who is with him. 
Deuteronomy1:17 You shall not be partial in judgment; but you shall hear the small as well as the great. You shall not be afraid of the face of man, for the judgment is God's. And the case that is too hard for you, you shall bring to me, and I will hear it." 
Deuteronomy1:18 And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do. 
Deuteronomy1:19 And when we departed from Horeb, we went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw on the way to the hill country of the Amorites, as the Lord our God commanded us, and we came to Kadesh-barnea." 
Deuteronomy1:20 And I said to you, You have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which the Lord our God gives us." 
Deuteronomy1:21 Behold, the Lord your God has set the land before you; go up and possess it, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has said to you. Fear not, neither be dismayed." 
Deuteronomy1:22 Then you all came near to me and said, Let us send men before us, that they may search out the land for us and bring us word again by what way we should go up and the cities into which we shall come." 
Deuteronomy1:23 The thing pleased me well, and I took twelve men of you, one for each tribe." 
Deuteronomy1:24 And they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the Valley of Eshcol and spied it out." 
Deuteronomy1:25 And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us and brought us word again, and said, It is a good land which the Lord our God gives us." 
Deuteronomy1:26 Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the commandment of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy1:27 You were peevish and discontented in your tents, and said, Because the Lord hated us, He brought us forth out of the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us." 
Deuteronomy1:28 To what are we going up? Our brethren have made our hearts melt, saying, The people are bigger and taller than we are; the cities are great and fortified to the heavens. And moreover we have seen the [giantlike] sons of the Anakim there." 
Deuteronomy1:29 Then I said to you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them." 
Deuteronomy1:30 The Lord your God Who goes before you, He will fight for you just as He did for you in Egypt before your eyes," 
Deuteronomy1:31 And in the wilderness, where you have seen how the Lord your God bore you, as a man carries his son, in all the way that you went until you came to this place." 
Deuteronomy1:32 Yet in spite of this word you did not believe (trust, rely on, and remain steadfast to) the Lord your God," 
Deuteronomy1:33 Who went in the way before you to search out a place to pitch your tents, in fire by night, to show you by what way you should go, and in the cloud by day." 
Deuteronomy1:34 And the Lord heard your words, and was angered and He swore," 
Deuteronomy1:35 Not one of these men of this evil generation shall see that good land which I swore to give to your fathers," 
Deuteronomy1:36 Except [Joshua, of course, and] Caleb son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land upon which he has walked, because he has wholly followed the Lord." 
Deuteronomy1:36 Except [Joshua, of course, and] Caleb son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land upon which he has walked, because he has wholly followed the Lord." 
Deuteronomy1:37 The Lord was angry with me also for your sakes, and said, You also shall not enter Canaan." 
Deuteronomy1:38 But Joshua son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall enter there. Encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it." 
Deuteronomy1:38 But Joshua son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall enter there. Encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it." 
Deuteronomy1:39 Moreover, your little ones whom you said would become a prey, and your children who at this time cannot discern between good and evil, they shall enter Canaan, and to them I will give it and they shall possess it." 
Deuteronomy1:40 But as for you, turn and journey into the wilderness by way of the Red Sea." 
Deuteronomy1:41 Then you said to me, We have sinned against the Lord. We will go up and fight, as the Lord our God commanded us. And you girded on every man his battle weapons, and thought it a simple matter to go up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:42 And the Lord said to me, Say to them, Do not go up or fight, for I am not among you,lest you be dangerously hurt by your enemies." 
Deuteronomy1:43 So I spoke to you, and you would not hear, but rebelled against the commandment of the Lord, and were presumptuous and went up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:44 Then the Amorites who lived in that hill country came out against you and chased you as bees do and struck you down in Seir as far as Hormah. 
Deuteronomy1:45 And you returned and wept before the Lord, but the Lord would not heed your voice or listen to you." 
Deuteronomy1:46 So you remained in Kadesh; many days you remained there. 
Deuteronomy2:1 THEN WE turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea, as the Lord directed me; and for many days we journeyed around Mount Seir." 
Deuteronomy2:2 And the Lord spoke to me [Moses], saying," 
Deuteronomy2:3 You have roamed around this mountain country long enough; turn northward. 
Deuteronomy2:4 And command the Israelites, You are to pass through the territory of your kinsmen the sons of Esau, who live in Seir; and they will be afraid of you. So watch yourselves carefully." 
Deuteronomy2:5 Do not provoke or stir them up, for I will not give you of their land, no, not enough for the sole of your foot to tread on, for I have given Mount Seir to Esau for a possession." 
Deuteronomy2:6 You shall buy food from them for money, that you may eat, and you shall also buy water from them for money, that you may drink." 
Deuteronomy2:7 For the Lord your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand. He knows your walking through this great wilderness. These forty years the Lord your God has been with you; you have lacked nothing. 
Deuteronomy2:8 So we passed on from our brethren the sons of Esau, who dwelt in Seir, away from the Arabah (wilderness), and from Elath and from Ezion-geber. We turned and went by the way of the wilderness of Moab." 
Deuteronomy2:9 And the Lord said to me, Do not trouble or assault Moab or contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land for a possession, because I have given Ar to the sons of Lot for a possession." 
Deuteronomy2:10 (The Emim dwelt there in times past, a people great and many, and tall as the Anakim." 
Deuteronomy2:11 These also are known as Rephaim [of giant stature], as are the Anakim, but the Moabites call them Emim." 
Deuteronomy2:12 The Horites also formerly lived in Seir, but the sons of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them and dwelt in their stead, as Israel did to the land of their possession which the Lord gave to them.)" 
Deuteronomy2:13 Now rise up and go over the brook Zered. So we went over the brook Zered. 
Deuteronomy2:14 And the time from our leaving Kadesh-barnea until we had come over the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until the whole generation of the men of war had perished from the camp, as the Lord had sworn to them." 
Deuteronomy2:15 Moreover the hand of the Lord was against them to exterminate them from the midst of the camp, until they were all gone." 
Deuteronomy2:16 So when all the men of war had died from among the people," 
Deuteronomy2:17 The Lord spoke to me [Moses], saying," 
Deuteronomy2:18 You are this day to pass through Ar, the border of Moab." 
Deuteronomy2:19 But when you come near the territory of the sons of Ammon, do not trouble or assault them or provoke or stir them up, for I will not give you any of the land of the Ammonites for a possession, because I have given it to the sons of Lot for a possession." 
Deuteronomy2:20 (That also is known as a land of Rephaim [of giant stature]; Rephaim dwelt there formerly, but the Ammonites call them Zamzummim," 
Deuteronomy2:21 A people great and many, and tall as the Anakim. But the Lord destroyed them before [Ammon], and they dispossessed them and settled in their stead," 
Deuteronomy2:22 As He did for the sons of Esau, who dwell in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites from before them, and they dispossessed them and settled in their stead even to this day." 
Deuteronomy2:23 As for the Avvim who dwelt in villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim who came from Caphtor destroyed them and dwelt in their stead.)" 
Deuteronomy2:24 Rise up, take your journey, and pass over the Valley of the Arnon. Behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land; begin to possess it and contend with him in battle." 
Deuteronomy2:25 This day will I begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the peoples who are under the whole heavens, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you." 
Deuteronomy2:26 So I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying," 
Deuteronomy2:27 Let me pass through your land. I will go only by the road, turning aside neither to the right nor to the left." 
Deuteronomy2:28 You shall sell me food to eat and sell me water to drink; only let me walk through," 
Deuteronomy2:29 As the sons of Esau, who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites, who dwell in Ar, did for me, until I go over the Jordan into the land which the Lord our God gives us." 
Deuteronomy2:30 But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him; for the Lord your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that He might give him into your hand, as at this day." 
Deuteronomy2:31 And the Lord said to me [Moses], Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to take possession, that you may succeed him and occupy his land." 
Deuteronomy2:32 Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to fight at Jahaz." 
Deuteronomy2:33 And the Lord our God gave him over to us, and we defeated him and his sons and all his people." 
Deuteronomy2:34 At the same time we took all his cities and utterly destroyed every city,men, women, and children. We left none to remain." 
Deuteronomy2:35 Only the cattle we took as booty for ourselves and the spoil of the cities which we had captured. 
Deuteronomy2:36 From Aroer, which is on the edge of the Arnon Valley, and from the city that is in the valley, as far as Gilead, there was no city too high and strong for us; the Lord our God delivered all to us." 
Deuteronomy2:37 Only you did not go near the land of the Ammonites, that is, to any bank of the river Jabbok and the cities of the hill country, and wherever the Lord our God had forbidden us." 
Deuteronomy3:1 THEN WE turned and went up the road to Bashan, and Og king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei." 
Deuteronomy3:2 And the Lord said to me, Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon." 
Deuteronomy3:3 So the Lord our God also gave into our hands Og king of Bashan and all his people, and we smote him until not one was left to him." 
Deuteronomy3:4 And we took all his cities at that time; there was not a city which we did not take from them, sixty cities, the whole region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan." 
Deuteronomy3:5 All these cities were fortified with high and haughty walls, gates, and bars, besides a great many unwalled villages." 
Deuteronomy3:6 And we utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every city,men, women, and children." 
Deuteronomy3:7 But all the cattle and the spoil of the cities we took for booty for ourselves. 
Deuteronomy3:8 So we took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the Valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon" 
Deuteronomy3:9 (The Sidonians call Hermon, Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir)," 
Deuteronomy3:10 All the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan." 
Deuteronomy3:11 For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the [gigantic] Rephaim. Behold, his bedstead was of iron; is it not in Rabbah of the Ammonites? Nine cubits was its length and four cubits its breadth, using the cubit of a man [the forearm to the end of the middle finger]." 
Deuteronomy3:12 When we took possession of this land, I gave to the Reubenites and the Gadites the territory from Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, and half the hill country of Gilead and its cities." 
Deuteronomy3:13 The rest of Gilead and all of Bashan, the kingdom of Og, that is, all the region of Argob in Bashan, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh. It is called the land of Rephaim [of giant stature]." 
Deuteronomy3:14 Jair son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, that is, Bashan, as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and called it after his own name, Havvoth-jair, so called to this day." 
Deuteronomy3:15 And I gave Gilead to Machir [son of Manasseh]. 
Deuteronomy3:16 And to the Reubenites and Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the Valley of the Arnon, with the middle of the valley as the boundary of it, as far over as the river Jabbok, the boundary of the Ammonites," 
Deuteronomy3:17 The Arabah also, with the Jordan as its boundary, from Chinnereth as far as the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt [Dead] Sea, under the cliffs [of the headlands] of Pisgah on the east." 
Deuteronomy3:18 And I commanded you at that time, saying, The Lord your God has given you this land to possess it; you [Reuben, Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh] shall go over [the Jordan] armed before your brethren the other Israelites, all that are able for war." 
Deuteronomy3:19 But your wives and your little ones and your cattle,I know that you have many cattle,shall remain in your cities which I have given you," 
Deuteronomy3:20 Until the Lord has given rest to your brethren as to you, and until they also possess the land which the Lord your God has given them beyond the Jordan. Then shall you return every man to the possession which I have given you." 
Deuteronomy3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Your own eyes have seen all that the Lord your God has done to these two kings [Sihon and Og]; so shall the Lord do to all the kingdoms into which you are going over [the Jordan]." 
Deuteronomy3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Your own eyes have seen all that the Lord your God has done to these two kings [Sihon and Og]; so shall the Lord do to all the kingdoms into which you are going over [the Jordan]." 
Deuteronomy3:22 You shall not fear them, for the Lord your God shall fight for you." 
Deuteronomy3:23 And I besought the Lord at that time, saying," 
Deuteronomy3:24 O Lord God, You have only begun to show Your servant Your greatness and Your mighty hand; for what god is there in heaven or on earth that can do according to Your works and according to Your might?" 
Deuteronomy3:25 I pray You, [will You not just] let me go over and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, that goodly mountain country [with Hermon] and Lebanon?" 
Deuteronomy3:26 But the Lord was angry with me on your account and would not listen to me; and the Lord said to me, That is enough! Say no more to Me about it." 
Deuteronomy3:27 Get up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes westward and northward and southward and eastward, and behold it with your eyes, for you shall not go over this Jordan." 
Deuteronomy3:28 But charge Joshua, and encourage and strengthen him, for he shall go over before this people and he shall cause them to possess the land which you shall see." 
Deuteronomy3:28 But charge Joshua, and encourage and strengthen him, for he shall go over before this people and he shall cause them to possess the land which you shall see." 
Deuteronomy3:29 So we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor. 
Deuteronomy4:1 NOW LISTEN and give heed, O Israel, to the statutes and ordinances which I teach you, and do them, that you may live and go in and possess the land which the Lord, the God of your fathers, gives you." 
Deuteronomy4:2 You shall not add to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you." 
Deuteronomy4:3 Your eyes still see what the Lord did because of Baal-peor; for all the men who followed the Baal of Peor the Lord your God has destroyed from among you, [Num. 25:1-9.]" 
Deuteronomy4:4 But you who clung fast to the Lord your God are alive, every one of you, this day." 
Deuteronomy4:5 Behold, I have taught you statutes and ordinances as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land which you are entering to possess." 
Deuteronomy4:6 So keep them and do them, for that is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people." 
Deuteronomy4:7 For what great nation is there who has a god so near to them as the Lord our God is to us in all things for which we call upon Him? 
Deuteronomy4:8 And what large and important nation has statutes and ordinances so upright and just as all this law which I set before you today? 
Deuteronomy4:9 Only take heed, and guard your life diligently, lest you forget the things which your eyes have seen and lest they depart from your [mind and] heart all the days of your life. Teach them to your children and your children's children," 
Deuteronomy4:10 Especially how on the day that you stood before the Lord your God in Horeb, the Lord said to me, Gather the people together to Me and I will make them hear My words, that they may learn [reverently] to fear Me all the days they live upon the earth and that they may teach their children." 
Deuteronomy4:11 And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven, with darkness, cloud, and thick gloom." 
Deuteronomy4:12 And the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the voice of the words, but saw no form; there was only a voice." 
Deuteronomy4:13 And He declared to you His covenant, which He commanded you to perform, the Ten Commandments, and He wrote them on two tables of stone." 
Deuteronomy4:14 And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach you the statutes and precepts, that you might do them in the land which you are going over to possess." 
Deuteronomy4:15 Therefore take good heed to yourselves, since you saw no form of Him on the day the Lord spoke to you on Horeb out of the midst of the fire," 
Deuteronomy4:16 Beware lest you become corrupt by making for yourselves [to worship] a graven image in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female," 
Deuteronomy4:17 The likeness of any beast that is on the earth, or of any winged fowl that flies in the air," 
Deuteronomy4:18 The likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, or of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth." 
Deuteronomy4:19 And beware lest you lift up your eyes to the heavens, and when you see the sun, moon, and stars, even all the host of the heavens, you be drawn away and worship them and serve them, things which the Lord your God has allotted to all nations under the whole heaven." 
Deuteronomy4:20 But the Lord has taken you and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be to Him a people of His own possession, as you are this day." 
Deuteronomy4:21 Furthermore the Lord was angry with me because of you, and He swore that I should not go over the Jordan and that I should not enter the good land which the Lord your God gives you for an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy4:22 But I must die in this land; I must not cross the Jordan; but you shall go over and possess that good land. 
Deuteronomy4:23 Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God which He made with you, and make for yourselves a graven image in the form of anything which the Lord your God has forbidden you." 
Deuteronomy4:24 For the Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God." 
Deuteronomy4:25 When children shall be born to you, and children's children, and you have grown old in the land, if you corrupt yourselves by making a graven image in the form of anything, and do evil in the sight of the Lord your God, provoking Him to anger," 
Deuteronomy4:26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day that you shall soon utterly perish from the land which you are going over the Jordan to possess. You will not live long upon it but will be utterly destroyed. 
Deuteronomy4:27 And the Lord will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few in number among the nations to which the Lord will drive you." 
Deuteronomy4:28 There you will serve gods, the work of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see nor hear nor eat nor smell." 
Deuteronomy4:29 But if from there you will seek (inquire for and require as necessity) the Lord your God, you will find Him if you [truly] seek Him with all your heart [and mind] and soul and life." 
Deuteronomy4:30 When you are in tribulation and all these things come upon you, in the latter days you will turn to the Lord your God and be obedient to His voice." 
Deuteronomy4:31 For the Lord your God is a merciful God; He will not fail you or destroy you or forget the covenant of your fathers, which He swore to them." 
Deuteronomy4:32 For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from one end of the heavens to the other, whether such a great thing as this has ever occurred or been heard of anywhere." 
Deuteronomy4:33 Did ever people hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you heard, and live?" 
Deuteronomy4:34 Or has God ever tried to go and take for Himself a nation from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, by wonders, by war, by a mighty hand, by an outstretched arm, and by great terrors, as the Lord your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?" 
Deuteronomy4:35 To you it was shown, that you might realize and have personal knowledge that the Lord is God; there is no other besides Him." 
Deuteronomy4:36 Out of heaven He made you hear His voice, that He might correct, discipline, and admonish you; and on earth He made you see His great fire, and you heard His words out of the midst of the fire." 
Deuteronomy4:37 And because He loved your fathers, He chose their descendants after them, and brought you out from Egypt with His own Presence, by His mighty power," 
Deuteronomy4:38 Driving out nations from before you, greater and mightier than yourselves, to bring you in, to give you their land for an inheritance, as it is this day;" 
Deuteronomy4:39 Know, recognize, and understand therefore this day and turn your [mind and] heart to it that the Lord is God in the heavens above and upon the earth beneath; there is no other." 
Deuteronomy4:40 Therefore you shall keep His statutes and His commandments, which I command you this day, that it may go well with you and your children after you and that you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord your God gives you forever." 
Deuteronomy4:41 Then Moses set apart three cities [of refuge] beyond the Jordan to the east," 
Deuteronomy4:42 That the manslayer might flee there, who slew his neighbor unintentionally and had not previously been at enmity with him, that fleeing to one of these cities he might save his life:" 
Deuteronomy4:43 Bezer in the wilderness on the tableland, for the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, for the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, for the Manassites." 
Deuteronomy4:44 This is the law which Moses set before the Israelites. 
Deuteronomy4:45 These are the testimonies and the laws and the precepts which Moses spoke to the Israelites when they came out of Egypt," 
Deuteronomy4:46 Beyond the Jordan in the valley opposite Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the Israelites smote when they came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy4:47 And they took possession of his land and the land of Og king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who lived beyond the Jordan to the east," 
Deuteronomy4:48 From Aroer, which is on the edge of the Valley of the Arnon, as far as Mount Sirion (that is, Hermon)," 
Deuteronomy4:49 And all the Arabah (lowlands) beyond the Jordan eastward, as far as the Sea of the Arabah [the Dead Sea], under the slopes and springs of Pisgah." 
Deuteronomy5:1 AND MOSES called all Israel, and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and ordinances which I speak in your hearing this day, that you may learn them and take heed and do them." 
Deuteronomy5:2 The Lord our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. 
Deuteronomy5:3 The Lord made this covenant not with our fathers, but with us, who are all of us here alive this day." 
Deuteronomy5:4 The Lord spoke with you face to face at the mount out of the midst of the fire. 
Deuteronomy5:5 I stood between the Lord and you at that time to show you the word of the Lord, for you were afraid because of the fire and went not up into the mount. He said," 
Deuteronomy5:6 I am the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage." 
Deuteronomy5:7 You shall have no other gods before Me or besides Me. 
Deuteronomy5:8 You shall not make for yourself [to worship] a graven image or any likeness of anything that is in the heavens above or that is in the earth beneath or that is in the water under the earth. 
Deuteronomy5:9 You shall not bow down to them or serve them; for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me," 
Deuteronomy5:10 And showing mercy and steadfast love to thousands and to a thousand generations of those who love Me and keep My commandments. 
Deuteronomy5:11 You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes His name in falsehood or without purpose." 
Deuteronomy5:12 Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you." 
Deuteronomy5:13 Six days you shall labor and do all your work," 
Deuteronomy5:14 But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God; in it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter, or your manservant or your maidservant, or your ox or your donkey or any of your livestock, or the stranger or sojourner who is within your gates, that your manservant and your maidservant may rest as well as you." 
Deuteronomy5:15 And [earnestly] remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt and that the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm; therefore the Lord your God commanded you to observe and take heed to the Sabbath day. 
Deuteronomy5:16 Honor your father and your mother, as the Lord your God commanded you, that your days may be prolonged and that it may go well with you in the land which the Lord your God gives you." 
Deuteronomy5:17 You shall not murder. 
Deuteronomy5:18 Neither shall you commit adultery. 
Deuteronomy5:19 Neither shall you act slyly or steal. 
Deuteronomy5:20 Neither shall you witness falsely against your neighbor. 
Deuteronomy5:21 Neither shall you covet your neighbor's wife, nor desire your neighbor's house, his field, his manservant or his maidservant, his ox or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's." 
Deuteronomy5:22 These words the Lord spoke to all your assembly at the mountain out of the midst of the fire, the cloud, and the thick darkness, with a loud voice; and He spoke not again [added no more]. He wrote them on two tables of stone and gave them to me [Moses]." 
Deuteronomy5:23 And when you heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, you came near me, all the heads of your tribes and your elders;" 
Deuteronomy5:24 And you said, Behold, the Lord our God has shown us His glory and His greatness, and we have heard His voice out of the midst of the fire; we have this day seen that God speaks with man and man still lives." 
Deuteronomy5:25 Now therefore, why should we die? For this great fire will consume us; if we hear the voice of the Lord our God any longer, we shall die." 
Deuteronomy5:26 For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of fire, as we have, and lived?" 
Deuteronomy5:27 Go near [Moses] and hear all that the Lord our God will say. And speak to us all that the Lord our God will speak to you; and we will hear and do it. 
Deuteronomy5:28 And the Lord heard your words when you spoke to me and the Lord said to me, I have heard the words of this people which they have spoken to you. They have said well all that they have spoken." 
Deuteronomy5:29 Oh, that they had such a [mind and] heart in them always [reverently] to fear Me and keep all My commandments, that it might go well with them and with their children forever!" 
Deuteronomy5:30 Go and say to them, Return to your tents." 
Deuteronomy5:31 But you [Moses], stand here by Me, and I will tell you all the commandments and the statutes and the precepts which you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess." 
Deuteronomy5:32 Therefore you people shall be watchful to do as the Lord your God has commanded you; you shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
Deuteronomy5:33 You shall walk in all the ways which the Lord your God has commanded you, that you may live and that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land which you shall possess." 
Deuteronomy6:1 NOW THIS is the instruction, the laws, and the precepts which the Lord your God commanded me to teach you, that you might do them in the land to which you go to possess it," 
Deuteronomy6:2 That you may [reverently] fear the Lord your God, you and your son and your son's son, and keep all His statutes and His commandments which I command you all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged." 
Deuteronomy6:3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and be watchful to do them, that it may be well with you and that you may increase exceedingly, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you, in a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy6:4 Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord [the only Lord]." 
Deuteronomy6:5 And you shall love the Lord your God with all your [mind and] heart and with your entire being and with all your might. 
Deuteronomy6:6 And these words which I am commanding you this day shall be [first] in your [own] minds and hearts; [then] 
Deuteronomy6:7 You shall whet and sharpen them so as to make them penetrate, and teach and impress them diligently upon the [minds and] hearts of your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down and when you rise up." 
Deuteronomy6:8 And you shall bind them as a sign upon your hand, and they shall be as frontlets (forehead bands) between your eyes." 
Deuteronomy6:9 And you shall write them upon the doorposts of your house and on your gates. 
Deuteronomy6:10 And when the Lord your God brings you into the land which He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you, with great and goodly cities which you did not build," 
Deuteronomy6:11 And houses full of all good things which you did not fill, and cisterns hewn out which you did not hew, and vineyards and olive trees which you did not plant, and when you eat and are full," 
Deuteronomy6:12 Then beware lest you forget the Lord, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage." 
Deuteronomy6:13 You shall [reverently] fear the Lord your God and serve Him and swear by His name [and presence]. 
Deuteronomy6:14 You shall not go after other gods, any of the gods of the peoples who are round about you;" 
Deuteronomy6:15 For the Lord your God in the midst of you is a jealous God; lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you, and He destroy you from the face of the earth." 
Deuteronomy6:16 You shall not tempt and try the Lord your God as you tempted and tried Him in Massah. [Exod. 17:7.] 
Deuteronomy6:17 You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God and His exhortations and His statutes which He commanded you. 
Deuteronomy6:18 And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord, that it may go well with you and that you may go in and possess the good land which the Lord swore to give to your fathers," 
Deuteronomy6:19 To cast out all your enemies from before you, as the Lord has promised." 
Deuteronomy6:20 When your son asks you in time to come, What is the meaning of the testimonies and statutes and precepts which the Lord our God has commanded you?" 
Deuteronomy6:21 Then you shall say to your son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand." 
Deuteronomy6:22 And the Lord showed signs and wonders, great and evil, against Egypt, against Pharaoh, and all his household, before our eyes;" 
Deuteronomy6:23 And He brought us out from there, that He might bring us in to give us the land which He swore to give our fathers." 
Deuteronomy6:24 And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes, to [reverently] fear the Lord our God for our good always, that He might preserve us alive, as it is this day." 
Deuteronomy6:25 And it will be accounted as righteousness (conformity to God's will in word, thought, and action) for us if we are watchful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God, as He has commanded us." 
Deuteronomy7:1 WHEN THE Lord your God brings you into the land which you are entering to possess and has plucked away many nations before you, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than you," 
Deuteronomy7:2 And when the Lord your God gives them over to you and you smite them, then you must utterly destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them, or show mercy to them." 
Deuteronomy7:3 You shall not make marriages with them; your daughter you shall not give to his son nor shall you take his daughter for your son," 
Deuteronomy7:4 For they will turn away your sons from following Me, that they may serve other gods; so will the anger of the Lord be kindled against you and He will destroy you quickly." 
Deuteronomy7:5 But thus shall you deal with them: you shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and hew down their Asherim [symbols of the goddess Asherah] and burn their graven images with fire. 
Deuteronomy7:6 For you are a holy and set-apart people to the Lord your God; the Lord your God has chosen you to be a special people to Himself out of all the peoples on the face of the earth. 
Deuteronomy7:7 The Lord did not set His love upon you and choose you because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the fewest of all people." 
Deuteronomy7:8 But because the Lord loves you and because He would keep the oath which He had sworn to your fathers, the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy7:9 Know, recognize, and understand therefore that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God, Who keeps covenant and steadfast love and mercy with those who love Him and keep His commandments, to a thousand generations," 
Deuteronomy7:10 And repays those who hate Him to their face, by destroying them; He will not be slack to him who hates Him, but will requite him to his face." 
Deuteronomy7:11 You shall therefore keep and do the instruction, laws, and precepts which I command you this day." 
Deuteronomy7:12 And if you hearken to these precepts and keep and do them, the Lord your God will keep with you the covenant and the steadfast love which He swore to your fathers." 
Deuteronomy7:13 And He will love you, bless you, and multiply you; He will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your land, your grain, your new wine, and your oil, the increase of your cattle and the young of your flock in the land which He swore to your fathers to give you." 
Deuteronomy7:14 You shall be blessed above all peoples; there shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your cattle." 
Deuteronomy7:15 And the Lord will take away from you all sickness, and none of the evil diseases of Egypt which you knew will He put upon you, but will lay them upon all who hate you." 
Deuteronomy7:16 And you shall consume all the peoples whom the Lord your God will give over to you; your eye shall not pity them, neither shall you serve their gods, for that would be a snare to you." 
Deuteronomy7:17 If you say in your [minds and] hearts, These nations are greater than we are; how can we dispossess them?" 
Deuteronomy7:18 You shall not be afraid of them, but remember [earnestly] what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt," 
Deuteronomy7:19 The great trials which your eyes saw, the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand and the outstretched arm by which the Lord your God brought you out. So shall the Lord your God do to all the people of whom you are afraid." 
Deuteronomy7:20 Moreover, the Lord your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left and hide themselves from you are destroyed." 
Deuteronomy7:21 You shall not dread them, for the Lord your God is among you, a mighty and terrible God." 
Deuteronomy7:22 And the Lord your God will clear out those nations before you, little by little; you may not consume them quickly, lest the beasts of the field increase among you." 
Deuteronomy7:23 But the Lord your God will give them over to you and will confuse them with a mighty panic until they are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy7:24 And He will give their kings into your hand, and you shall make their name perish from under the heavens; there shall no man be able to stand before you, until you have destroyed them." 
Deuteronomy7:25 The graven images of their gods you shall burn with fire. You shall not desire the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest you be ensnared by it, for it is an abomination to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy7:26 Neither shall you bring an abomination (an idol) into your house, lest you become an accursed thing like it; but you shall utterly detest and abhor it, for it is an accursed thing." 
Deuteronomy8:1 ALL THE commandments which I command you this day you shall be watchful to do, that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to give to your fathers." 
Deuteronomy8:2 And you shall [earnestly] remember all the way which the Lord your God led you these forty years in the wilderness, to humble you and to prove you, to know what was in your [mind and] heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not." 
Deuteronomy8:3 And He humbled you and allowed you to hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know nor did your fathers know, that He might make you recognize and personally know that man does not live by bread only, but man lives by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of the Lord." 
Deuteronomy8:4 Your clothing did not become old upon you nor did your feet swell these forty years. 
Deuteronomy8:5 Know also in your [minds and] hearts that, as a man disciplines and instructs his son, so the Lord your God disciplines and instructs you." 
Deuteronomy8:6 So you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God, to walk in His ways and [reverently] fear Him. [Prov. 8:13.]" 
Deuteronomy8:7 For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing forth in valleys and hills;" 
Deuteronomy8:8 A land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and honey;" 
Deuteronomy8:9 A land in which you shall eat food without shortage and lack nothing in it; a land whose stones are iron and out of whose hills you can dig copper. 
Deuteronomy8:10 When you have eaten and are full, then you shall bless the Lord your God for all the good land which He has given you." 
Deuteronomy8:11 Beware that you do not forget the Lord your God by not keeping His commandments, His precepts, and His statutes which I command you today," 
Deuteronomy8:12 Lest when you have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses and live in them," 
Deuteronomy8:13 And when your herds and flocks multiply and your silver and gold is multiplied and all you have is multiplied," 
Deuteronomy8:14 Then your [minds and] hearts be lifted up and you forget the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage," 
Deuteronomy8:15 Who led you through the great and terrible wilderness, with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water, but Who brought you forth water out of the flinty rock," 
Deuteronomy8:16 Who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers did not know, that He might humble you and test you, to do you good in the end." 
Deuteronomy8:17 And beware lest you say in your [mind and] heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth." 
Deuteronomy8:18 But you shall [earnestly] remember the Lord your God, for it is He Who gives you power to get wealth, that He may establish His covenant which He swore to your fathers, as it is this day." 
Deuteronomy8:19 And if you forget the Lord your God and walk after other gods and serve them and worship them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish." 
Deuteronomy8:20 Like the nations which the Lord makes to perish before you, so shall you perish, because you would not obey the voice of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy9:1 HEAR, O Israel. You are to cross the Jordan today to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than you are, cities great and fortified up to the heavens," 
Deuteronomy9:2 A people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you know and of whom you have heard it said, Who can stand before the sons of Anak?" 
Deuteronomy9:3 Know therefore this day that the Lord your God is He Who goes over before you as a devouring fire. He will destroy them and bring them down before you; so you shall dispossess them and make them perish quickly, as the Lord has promised you." 
Deuteronomy9:4 Do not say in your [mind and] heart, after the Lord your God has thrust them out from before you, It is because of my righteousness that the Lord has brought me in to possess this land,whereas it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is dispossessing them before you." 
Deuteronomy9:5 Not for your righteousness or for the uprightness of your [minds and] hearts do you go to possess their land; but because of the wickedness of these nations the Lord your God is driving them out before you, and that He may fulfill the promise which the Lord swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy9:6 Know therefore that the Lord your God does not give you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a hard and stubborn people." 
Deuteronomy9:7 [Earnestly] remember and forget not how you provoked the Lord your God to wrath in the wilderness; from the day you left the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the Lord." 
Deuteronomy9:8 Even in Horeb you provoked the Lord to wrath, and the Lord was so angry with you that He would have destroyed you." 
Deuteronomy9:9 When I went up the mountain to receive the tables of stone, the tables of the covenant which the Lord made with you, I remained on the mountain forty days and forty nights; I neither ate food nor drank water." 
Deuteronomy9:10 And the Lord delivered to me the two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and on them were all the words which the Lord spoke with you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly. 
Deuteronomy9:11 And at the end of forty days and forty nights the Lord gave me the two tables of stone, the tables of the covenant." 
Deuteronomy9:12 And the Lord said to me, Arise, go down from here quickly, for your people whom you brought out of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have quickly turned aside from the way which I commanded them; they have made for themselves a molten image." 
Deuteronomy9:13 Furthermore the Lord said to me, I have seen this people, and behold, they are stubborn and hard." 
Deuteronomy9:14 Let me alone, that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under the heavens; and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they." 
Deuteronomy9:15 So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire. And the two tables of the covenant were in my two hands." 
Deuteronomy9:16 And I looked, and behold, you had sinned against the Lord your God; you had made for yourselves a molten calf. You had turned aside quickly from the way which the Lord had commanded you." 
Deuteronomy9:17 I took the two tables, cast them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes." 
Deuteronomy9:18 Then I fell down before the Lord as before, for forty days and forty nights; I neither ate food nor drank water, because of all the sin you had committed in doing wickedly in the sight of the Lord, to provoke Him to anger." 
Deuteronomy9:19 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure which the Lord held against you, enough to destroy you. But the Lord listened to me that time also." 
Deuteronomy9:20 And the Lord was very angry with Aaron, angry enough to have destroyed him, and I prayed for Aaron also at the same time." 
Deuteronomy9:21 And I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust; and I cast the dust of it into the brook that came down out of the mountain." 
Deuteronomy9:22 At Taberah also and at Massah and at Kibroth-hattaavah you provoked the Lord to wrath. 
Deuteronomy9:23 Likewise when the Lord sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you, then you rebelled against the commandment of the Lord your God, and you did not believe Him or trust and rely on Him or obey His voice." 
Deuteronomy9:24 You have been rebellious against the Lord from the day that I knew you. 
Deuteronomy9:25 So I fell down and lay prostrate before the Lord forty days and nights because the Lord had said He would destroy you. 
Deuteronomy9:26 And I prayed to the Lord, O Lord God, do not destroy Your people and Your heritage, whom You have redeemed through Your greatness, whom You have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand." 
Deuteronomy9:27 Remember [earnestly] Your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; look not at the stubbornness of this people or at their wickedness or at their sin," 
Deuteronomy9:28 Lest the land from which You brought us out say, Because the Lord was not able to bring them into the land which He promised them, and because He hated them, He has brought them out to slay them in the wilderness." 
Deuteronomy9:29 Yet they are Your people and Your inheritance, whom You brought out by Your mighty power and by Your outstretched arm." 
Deuteronomy10:1 AT THAT time the Lord said to me, Hew two tables of stone like the first and come up to Me on the mountain and make an ark of wood." 
Deuteronomy10:2 And I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which you broke, and you shall put them in the ark." 
Deuteronomy10:3 So I [Moses] made an ark of acacia wood and hewed two tables of stone like the first, and went up the mountain with the two tables of stone in my [one] hand." 
Deuteronomy10:4 And the Lord wrote on the tables as at the first writing, the Ten Commandments which the Lord had spoken to you on the mountain out of the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly; and the Lord gave them to me." 
Deuteronomy10:5 And I turned and came down from the mountain and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are, as the Lord commanded me." 
Deuteronomy10:6 (The Israelites journeyed from the wells of the sons of Jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried, and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his stead." 
Deuteronomy10:7 From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and then to Jotbathah, a land of brooks [dividing the valley]." 
Deuteronomy10:8 At that time the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi to bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord to minister to Him and to bless in His name unto this day." 
Deuteronomy10:9 Therefore Levi has no part or inheritance with his brethren; the Lord is his inheritance, as the Lord your God promised him.)" 
Deuteronomy10:10 And I [Moses] stayed on the mountain, as the first time, forty days and nights, and the Lord listened to me at that time also; the Lord would not destroy you." 
Deuteronomy10:11 And the Lord said to me, Arise, journey on before the people, that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers to give to them." 
Deuteronomy10:12 And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you but [reverently] to fear the Lord your God, [that is] to walk in all His ways, and to love Him, and to serve the Lord your God with all your [mind and] heart and with your entire being," 
Deuteronomy10:13 To keep the commandments of the Lord and His statutes which I command you today for your good? 
Deuteronomy10:14 Behold, the heavens and the heaven of heavens belong to the Lord your God, the earth also, with all that is in it and on it." 
Deuteronomy10:15 Yet the Lord had a delight in loving your fathers, and He chose their descendants after them, you above all peoples, as it is this day." 
Deuteronomy10:16 So circumcise the foreskin of your [minds and] hearts; be no longer stubborn and hardened. 
Deuteronomy10:17 For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, the terrible God, Who is not partial and takes no bribe." 
Deuteronomy10:18 He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the stranger or temporary resident and gives him food and clothing." 
Deuteronomy10:19 Therefore love the stranger and sojourner, for you were strangers and sojourners in the land of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy10:20 You shall [reverently] fear the Lord your God; you shall serve Him and cling to Him, and by His name and presence you shall swear." 
Deuteronomy10:21 He is your praise; He is your God, Who has done for you these great and terrible things which your eyes have seen." 
Deuteronomy10:22 Your fathers went down to Egypt seventy persons in all, and now the Lord your God has made you as the stars of the heavens for multitude." 
Deuteronomy11:1 THEREFORE YOU shall love the Lord your God and keep His charge, His statutes, His precepts, and His commandments always." 
Deuteronomy11:2 And know this day,for I am not speaking to your children who have not [personally] known and seen it,the instruction and discipline of the Lord your God: His greatness, His mighty hand, and His outstretched arm;" 
Deuteronomy11:3 His signs and His deeds which He did in Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt and to all his land; 
Deuteronomy11:4 And what He did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and chariots, how He made the waters of the Red Sea flow over them as they pursued you, and how the Lord has destroyed them to this day;" 
Deuteronomy11:5 And what He did to you in the wilderness until you came to this place; 
Deuteronomy11:6 And what He did to Dathan and Abiram, sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben, how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed up them, their households, their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all Israel. [Num. 26:9, 10.]" 
Deuteronomy11:7 For your eyes have seen all the great work of the Lord which He did. 
Deuteronomy11:8 Therefore you shall keep all the commandments which I command you today, that you may be strong and go in and possess the land which you go across [the Jordan] to possess," 
Deuteronomy11:9 And that you may live long in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers to give to them and to their descendants, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy11:10 For the land which you go in to possess is not like the land of Egypt, from which you came out, where you sowed your seed and watered it with your foot laboriously as in a garden of vegetables." 
Deuteronomy11:11 But the land which you enter to possess is a land of hills and valleys which drinks water of the rain of the heavens," 
Deuteronomy11:12 A land for which the Lord your God cares; the eyes of the Lord your God are always upon it from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. 
Deuteronomy11:13 And if you will diligently heed My commandments which I command you this day,to love the Lord your God and to serve Him with all your [mind and] heart and with your entire being, 
Deuteronomy11:14 I will give the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil." 
Deuteronomy11:15 And I will give grass in your fields for your cattle, that you may eat and be full." 
Deuteronomy11:16 Take heed to yourselves, lest your [minds and] hearts be deceived and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them," 
Deuteronomy11:17 And the Lord's anger be kindled against you, and He shut up the heavens so that there will be no rain and the land will not yield its fruit, and you perish quickly off the good land which the Lord gives you." 
Deuteronomy11:18 Therefore you shall lay up these My words in your [minds and] hearts and in your [entire] being, and bind them for a sign upon your hands and as forehead bands between your eyes." 
Deuteronomy11:19 And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house and when you walk along the road, when you lie down and when you rise up." 
Deuteronomy11:20 And you shall write them upon the doorposts of your house and on your gates," 
Deuteronomy11:21 That your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the heavens are above the earth." 
Deuteronomy11:22 For if you diligently keep all this commandment which I command you to do, to love the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, and to cleave to Him," 
Deuteronomy11:23 Then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than you." 
Deuteronomy11:24 Every place upon which the sole of your foot shall tread shall be yours: from the wilderness to Lebanon, and from the River, the river Euphrates, to the western sea [the Mediterranean] your territory shall be." 
Deuteronomy11:25 There shall no man be able to stand before you; the Lord your God shall lay the fear and the dread of you upon all the land that you shall tread, as He has said to you." 
Deuteronomy11:26 Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse," 
Deuteronomy11:27 The blessing if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you this day; 
Deuteronomy11:28 And the curse if you will not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside from the way which I command you this day to go after other gods, which you have not known." 
Deuteronomy11:29 And when the Lord your God has brought you into the land which you go to possess, you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal. [Josh. 8:33.]" 
Deuteronomy11:30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, west of the road, where the sun goes down, in the land of the Canaanites living in the Arabah opposite Gilgal, beside the oaks or terebinths of Moreh?" 
Deuteronomy11:31 For you are to cross over the Jordan to go in to possess the land which the Lord your God gives you, and you shall possess it and live in it." 
Deuteronomy11:32 And you shall be watchful to do all the statutes and ordinances which I set before you this day. 
Deuteronomy12:1 THESE ARE the statutes and ordinances which you shall be watchful to do in the land which the Lord, the God of your fathers, gives you to possess all the days you live on the earth." 
Deuteronomy12:2 You shall surely destroy all the places where the nations you dispossess served their gods, upon the high mountains and the hills and under every green tree." 
Deuteronomy12:3 You shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and burn their Asherim with fire; you shall hew down the graven images of their gods and destroy their name out of that place. 
Deuteronomy12:4 You shall not behave so toward the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy12:5 But you shall seek the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all your tribes to put His Name and make His dwelling place, and there shall you come;" 
Deuteronomy12:6 And there you shall bring your burnt offerings and your sacrifices, your tithes and the offering of your hands, and your vows and your freewill offerings, and the firstlings of your herd and of your flock." 
Deuteronomy12:7 And there you shall eat before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice in all to which you put your hand, you and your households, in which the Lord your God has blessed you." 
Deuteronomy12:8 You shall not do according to all we do here [in the camp] this day, every man doing whatever looks right in his own eyes." 
Deuteronomy12:9 For you have not yet come to the rest and to the inheritance which the Lord your God gives you. 
Deuteronomy12:10 But when you go over the Jordan and dwell in the land which the Lord your God causes you to inherit, and He gives you rest from all your enemies round about so that you dwell in safety," 
Deuteronomy12:11 Then there shall be a place which the Lord your God shall choose to cause His Name [and His Presence] to dwell there; to it you shall bring all that I command you: your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes and what the hand presents [as a first gift from the fruits of the ground], and all your choicest offerings which you vow to the Lord." 
Deuteronomy12:12 And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your sons and your daughters, and your menservants and your maidservants, and the Levite that is within your towns, since he has no part or inheritance with you." 
Deuteronomy12:13 Be watchful not to offer your burnt offerings in every place you see. 
Deuteronomy12:14 But in the place which the Lord shall choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all I command you." 
Deuteronomy12:15 However, you may kill and eat flesh in any of your towns whenever you desire, according to the provision for the support of life with which the Lord your God has blessed you; those [ceremonially] unclean and the clean may eat of it, as of the gazelle and the hart." 
Deuteronomy12:16 Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it upon the ground as water. 
Deuteronomy12:17 You may not eat within your towns the tithe of your grain or of your new wine or of your oil, or the firstlings of your herd or flock, or anything you have vowed, or your freewill offerings, or the offerings from your hand [of garden products]." 
Deuteronomy12:18 But you shall eat them before the Lord your God in the place which the Lord your God shall choose, you and your son and your daughter, your manservant and your maidservant, and the Levite that is within your towns; and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God in all that you undertake." 
Deuteronomy12:19 Take heed not to forsake or neglect the Levite [God's minister] as long as you live in your land. 
Deuteronomy12:20 When the Lord your God enlarges your territory, as He promised you, and you say, I will eat flesh, because you crave flesh, you may eat flesh whenever you desire." 
Deuteronomy12:21 If the place where the Lord your God has chosen to put His Name [and Presence] is too far from you, then you shall kill from your herd or flock which the Lord has given you, as I [Moses] have commanded you; eat in your towns as much as you desire." 
Deuteronomy12:22 Just as the roebuck and the hart is eaten, so you may eat of it [but not offer it]; the unclean and the clean alike may eat of it." 
Deuteronomy12:23 Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life, and you may not eat the life with the flesh." 
Deuteronomy12:24 You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the earth like water. 
Deuteronomy12:25 You shall not eat it, that all may go well with you and with your children after you, when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord." 
Deuteronomy12:26 Only your holy things which you have [to offer] and what you have vowed you shall take, and go to the place [before the sanctuary] which the Lord shall choose." 
Deuteronomy12:27 And offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, upon the altar of the Lord your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of the Lord your God, and you may eat the flesh." 
Deuteronomy12:28 Be watchful and obey all these words which I command you, that it may go well with you and with your children after you forever, when you do what is good and right in the sight of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy12:29 When the Lord your God cuts off before you the nations whom you go to dispossess, and you dispossess them and live in their land," 
Deuteronomy12:30 Be watchful that you are not ensnared into following them after they have been destroyed before you and that you do not inquire after their gods, saying, How did these nations serve their gods? We will do likewise." 
Deuteronomy12:31 You shall not do so to the Lord your God, for every abominable thing which the Lord hates they have done for their gods. For even their sons and their daughters they have burned in the fire to their gods." 
Deuteronomy12:32 Whatever I command you, be watchful to do it; you shall not add to it or diminish it." 
Deuteronomy13:1 IF A prophet arises among you, or a dreamer of dreams, and gives you a sign or a wonder," 
Deuteronomy13:2 And the sign or the wonder he foretells to you comes to pass, and if he says, Let us go after other gods,gods you have not known,and let us serve them," 
Deuteronomy13:3 You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or to that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God is testing you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your [mind and] heart and with your entire being. 
Deuteronomy13:4 You shall walk after the Lord your God and [reverently] fear Him, and keep His commandments and obey His voice, and you shall serve Him and cling to Him." 
Deuteronomy13:5 But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has talked rebellion and turning away from the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you out of the house of bondage; that man has tried to draw you aside from the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. So shall you put the evil away from your midst." 
Deuteronomy13:6 If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son or daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend who is as your own life entices you secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other gods,gods you have not known, you nor your fathers," 
Deuteronomy13:7 Of the gods of the peoples who are round about you, near you or far away from you, from one end of the earth to the other," 
Deuteronomy13:8 You shall not give consent to him or listen to him; nor shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him or conceal him." 
Deuteronomy13:9 But you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hands of all the people." 
Deuteronomy13:10 And you shall stone him to death with stones, because he has tried to draw you away from the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage." 
Deuteronomy13:11 And all Israel shall hear and [reverently] fear, and shall never again do any such wickedness as this among you." 
Deuteronomy13:12 If you hear it said in one of your cities which the Lord your God has given you in which to dwell 
Deuteronomy13:13 That certain base fellows have gone out from your midst and have enticed away the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods,gods you have not known," 
Deuteronomy13:14 Then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it is true and certain that such an abominable thing has been done among you," 
Deuteronomy13:15 You shall surely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly and all who are in it and its beasts with the edge of the sword." 
Deuteronomy13:16 And you shall collect all its spoil into the midst of its open square and shall burn the city with fire with every bit of its spoil [as a whole burnt offering] to the Lord your God. It shall be a heap [of ruins] forever; it shall not be built again. 
Deuteronomy13:17 And nothing of the accursed thing shall cling to your hand, so that the Lord may turn from the fierceness of His anger, and show you mercy and have compassion on you and multiply you, as He swore to your fathers," 
Deuteronomy13:18 If you obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep all His commandments which I command you this day, to do what is right in the eyes of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy14:1 YOU ARE the sons of the Lord your God; you shall not cut yourselves or make any baldness on your foreheads for the dead," 
Deuteronomy14:2 For you are a holy people [set apart] to the Lord your God; and the Lord has chosen you to be a peculiar people to Himself, above all the nations on the earth." 
Deuteronomy14:3 You shall not eat anything that is abominable [to the Lord and so forbidden by Him]. 
Deuteronomy14:4 These are the beasts which you may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat," 
Deuteronomy14:5 The hart, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex, the antelope, and the mountain sheep." 
Deuteronomy14:6 And every beast that parts the hoof and has it divided into two and brings up and chews the cud among the beasts you may eat. 
Deuteronomy14:7 Yet these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud or have the hoof split in two: the camel, the hare, and the coney, because they chew the cud but divide not the hoof; they are unclean for you." 
Deuteronomy14:8 And the swine, because it parts the hoof but does not chew the cud; it is unclean to you. You shall not eat of their flesh or touch their dead bodies." 
Deuteronomy14:9 These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales you may eat," 
Deuteronomy14:10 And whatever has not fins and scales you may not eat; it is unclean for you. 
Deuteronomy14:11 Of all clean birds you may eat. 
Deuteronomy14:12 But these are the ones which you shall not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the ospray," 
Deuteronomy14:13 The buzzard, the kite in its several species," 
Deuteronomy14:14 The raven in all its species," 
Deuteronomy14:15 The ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, the hawk of any variety," 
Deuteronomy14:16 The little owl, the great owl, the horned owl," 
Deuteronomy14:17 The pelican, the carrion vulture, the cormorant," 
Deuteronomy14:18 The stork, the heron of any variety, the hoopoe, and the bat." 
Deuteronomy14:19 And all flying insects are unclean for you; they shall not be eaten. 
Deuteronomy14:20 But of all clean winged things you may eat. 
Deuteronomy14:21 You shall not eat of anything that dies of itself. You may give it to the stranger or the foreigner who is within your towns, that he may eat it, or you may sell it to an alien. [They are not under God's law in this matter] but you are a people holy to the Lord your God. You shall not [even] boil a kid in its mother's milk." 
Deuteronomy14:22 You shall surely tithe all the yield of your seed produced by your field each year. 
Deuteronomy14:23 And you shall eat before the Lord your God in the place in which He will cause His Name [and Presence] to dwell the tithe (tenth) of your grain, your new wine, your oil, and the firstlings of your herd and your flock, that you may learn [reverently] to fear the Lord your God always." 
Deuteronomy14:24 And if the distance is too long for you to carry your tithe, or the place where the Lord your God chooses to set His Name [and Presence] is too far away for you, when the Lord your God has blessed you," 
Deuteronomy14:25 Then you shall turn it into money, and bind up the money in your hand, and shall go to the place [of worship] which the Lord your God has chosen." 
Deuteronomy14:26 And you may spend that money for whatever your appetite craves, for oxen, or sheep, or new wine or strong[er] drink, or whatever you desire; and you shall eat there before the Lord your God and you shall rejoice, you and your household." 
Deuteronomy14:27 And you shall not forsake or neglect the Levite [God's minister] in your towns, for he has been given no share or inheritance with you." 
Deuteronomy14:28 At the end of every three years you shall bring forth all the tithe of your increase the same year and lay it up within your towns. 
Deuteronomy14:29 And the Levite [because he has no part or inheritance with you] and the stranger or temporary resident, and the fatherless and the widow who are in your towns shall come and eat and be satisfied, so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do." 
Deuteronomy15:1 AT THE end of every seven years you shall grant a release. 
Deuteronomy15:2 And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, for the Lord's release is proclaimed." 
Deuteronomy15:3 Of a foreigner you may exact it, but whatever of yours is with your brother [Israelite] your hand shall release." 
Deuteronomy15:4 But there will be no poor among you, for the Lord will surely bless you in the land which the Lord your God gives you for an inheritance to possess," 
Deuteronomy15:5 If only you carefully listen to the voice of the Lord your God, to do watchfully all these commandments which I command you this day." 
Deuteronomy15:6 When the Lord your God blesses you as He promised you, then you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow; and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you." 
Deuteronomy15:7 If there is among you a poor man, one of your kinsmen in any of the towns of your land which the Lord your God gives you, you shall not harden your [minds and] hearts or close your hands to your poor brother;" 
Deuteronomy15:8 But you shall open your hands wide to him and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need in whatever he lacks. 
Deuteronomy15:9 Beware lest there be a base thought in your [minds and] hearts, and you say, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand, and your eye be evil against your poor brother and you give him nothing, and he cry to the Lord against you, and it be sin in you." 
Deuteronomy15:10 You shall give to him freely without begrudging it; because of this the Lord will bless you in all your work and in all you undertake. 
Deuteronomy15:11 For the poor will never cease out of the land; therefore I command you, You shall open wide your hands to your brother, to your needy, and to your poor in your land." 
Deuteronomy15:12 And if your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you and serves you six years, then in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you." 
Deuteronomy15:13 And when you send him out free from you, you shall not let him go away empty-handed." 
Deuteronomy15:14 You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, your threshing floor, and your winepress; of what the Lord your God has blessed you, you shall give to him." 
Deuteronomy15:15 And you shall [earnestly] remember that you were a bondman in the land of Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you; therefore I give you this command today. 
Deuteronomy15:16 But if the servant says to you, I will not go away from you, because he loves you and your household, since he does well with you," 
Deuteronomy15:17 Then take an awl and pierce his ear through to the door, and he shall be your servant always. And also to your bondwoman you shall do likewise." 
Deuteronomy15:18 It shall not seem hard to you when you let him go free from you, for at half the cost of a hired servant he has served you six years; and the Lord your God will bless you in all you do." 
Deuteronomy15:19 All the firstling males that are born of your herd and flock you shall set apart for the Lord your God; you shall do no work with the firstling of your herd, nor shear the firstling of your flock." 
Deuteronomy15:20 You shall eat it before the Lord your God annually in the place [for worship] which the Lord shall choose, you and your household." 
Deuteronomy15:21 But if it has any blemish, if it is lame, blind, or has any bad blemish whatsoever, you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy15:22 You shall eat it within your towns; the [ceremonially] unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as if it were a gazelle or a hart." 
Deuteronomy15:23 Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy16:1 OBSERVE THE month of Abib and keep the Passover to the Lord your God, for in the month of Abib the Lord your God brought you out of Egypt by night." 
Deuteronomy16:2 You shall offer the Passover sacrifice to the Lord your God from the flock or the herd in the place where the Lord will choose to make His Name [and His Presence] dwell. 
Deuteronomy16:3 You shall eat no leavened bread with it; for seven days you shall eat it with unleavened bread, the bread of affliction,for you fled from the land of Egypt in haste,that all the days of your life you may [earnestly] remember the day when you came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy16:4 No leaven shall be seen with you in all your territory for seven days; nor shall any of the flesh which you sacrificed the first day at evening be left all night until the morning. 
Deuteronomy16:5 You may not offer the Passover sacrifice within any of your towns which the Lord your God gives you," 
Deuteronomy16:6 But at the place which the Lord your God will choose in which to make His Name [and His Presence] dwell, there you shall offer the Passover sacrifice in the evening at sunset, at the season that you came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy16:7 And you shall roast or boil and eat it in the place which the Lord your God will choose. And in the morning you shall turn and go to your tents. 
Deuteronomy16:8 For six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a solemn assembly to the Lord your God; you shall do no work on it." 
Deuteronomy16:9 You shall count seven weeks; begin to number the seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain. 
Deuteronomy16:10 Then you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the Lord your God with a tribute of a freewill offering from your hand, which you shall give to the Lord your God, as the Lord your God blesses you." 
Deuteronomy16:11 And you shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and daughter, your manservant and maidservant, and the Levite who is within your towns, the stranger or temporary resident, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you, at the place in which the Lord your God chooses to make His Name [and His Presence] dwell." 
Deuteronomy16:12 And you shall [earnestly] remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be watchful and obey these statutes." 
Deuteronomy16:13 You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles or Booths for seven days after you have gathered in from your threshing floor and wine vat. 
Deuteronomy16:14 You shall rejoice in your Feast, you, your son and daughter, your manservant and maidservant, the Levite, the transient and the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns." 
Deuteronomy16:15 For seven days you shall keep a solemn Feast to the Lord your God in the place which the Lord chooses; because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the works of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful." 
Deuteronomy16:16 Three times a year shall all your males appear before the Lord your God in the place which He chooses: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of Weeks, and at the Feast of Tabernacles or Booths. They shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed:" 
Deuteronomy16:17 Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God which He has given you." 
Deuteronomy16:18 You shall appoint judges and officers in all your towns which the Lord your God gives you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment." 
Deuteronomy16:19 You shall not misinterpret or misapply judgment; you shall not be partial, or take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and perverts the words of the righteous." 
Deuteronomy16:20 Follow what is altogether just (uncompromisingly righteous), that you may live and inherit the land which your God gives you." 
Deuteronomy16:21 You shall not plant for yourselves any kind of tree dedicated to [the goddess] Asherah beside the altar of the Lord your God which you shall make. 
Deuteronomy16:22 Neither shall you set up an idolatrous stone or image, which the Lord your God hates." 
Deuteronomy17:1 YOU SHALL not sacrifice to the Lord your God an ox or sheep with a blemish or any defect whatsoever, for that is an abomination to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy17:2 If there is found among you within any of your towns which the Lord your God gives you a man or woman who does what is wicked in the sight of the Lord your God by transgressing His covenant," 
Deuteronomy17:3 Who has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, or the sun or moon or any of the host of the heavens, which I have forbidden," 
Deuteronomy17:4 And it is told and you hear of it, then inquire diligently. And if it is certainly true that such an abomination has been committed in Israel," 
Deuteronomy17:5 Then you shall bring forth to your town's gates that man or woman who has done that wicked thing and you shall stone that man or woman to death. 
Deuteronomy17:6 On the evidence of two or three witnesses he who is worthy of death shall be put to death; he shall not be put to death on the evidence of one witness. 
Deuteronomy17:7 The hands of the witnesses shall be the first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hands of all the people. So you shall purge the evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy17:8 If there arises a matter too hard for you in judgment,between one kind of bloodshed and another, between one legality and another, between one kind of assault and another, matters of controversy within your towns,then arise and go to the place which the Lord your God chooses." 
Deuteronomy17:9 And you shall come to the Levitical priests and to the judge who is in office in those days, and you shall consult them and they shall make clear to you the decision." 
Deuteronomy17:10 And you shall do according to the decision which they declare to you from that place which the Lord chooses; and you shall be watchful to do according to all that they tell you; 
Deuteronomy17:11 According to the decision of the law which they shall teach you and the judgment which they shall announce to you, you shall do; you shall not turn aside from the verdict they give you, either to the right hand or the left." 
Deuteronomy17:12 The man who does presumptuously and will not listen to the priest who stands to minister there before the Lord your God or to the judge, that man shall die; so you shall purge the evil from Israel." 
Deuteronomy17:13 And all the people shall hear and [reverently] fear, and not act presumptuously again." 
Deuteronomy17:14 When you come to the land which the Lord your God gives you and you possess it and live there, and then say, We will set a king over us like all the nations that are about us," 
Deuteronomy17:15 You shall surely set as king over you him whom the Lord your God will choose. One from among your brethren you shall set as king over you; you may not set a foreigner, who is not your brother, over you." 
Deuteronomy17:16 But he shall not multiply horses to himself or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to multiply horses, since the Lord said to you, You shall never return that way." 
Deuteronomy17:17 And he shall not multiply wives to himself, that his [mind and] heart turn not away; neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold." 
Deuteronomy17:18 And when he sits on his royal throne, he shall write for himself a copy of this law in a book, out of what is before the Levitical priests." 
Deuteronomy17:19 And he shall keep it with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn [reverently] to fear the Lord his God, by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them," 
Deuteronomy17:20 That his [mind and] heart may not be lifted up above his brethren and that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right hand or to the left; so that he may continue long, he and his sons, in his kingdom in Israel." 
Deuteronomy18:1 THE LEVITICAL priests and all the tribe of Levi shall have no part or inheritance with Israel; they shall eat the offerings made by fire to the Lord, and His rightful dues." 
Deuteronomy18:2 They shall have no inheritance among their brethren; the Lord is their inheritance, as He promised them." 
Deuteronomy18:3 And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep: they shall give to the priest the shoulder and the two cheeks and the stomach." 
Deuteronomy18:4 The firstfruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first or best of the fleece of your sheep you shall give the priest." 
Deuteronomy18:5 For the Lord your God has chosen him out of all your tribes to stand to minister in the name [and presence] of the Lord, him and his sons forever." 
Deuteronomy18:6 And if a Levite comes from any of your towns out of all Israel where he is a temporary resident, he may come whenever he desires to [the sanctuary] the place the Lord will choose;" 
Deuteronomy18:7 Then he may minister in the name [and presence of] the Lord his God like all his brethren the Levites who stand to minister there before the Lord. 
Deuteronomy18:8 They shall have equal portions to eat, besides what may come of the sale of his patrimony. [Jer. 32:6-15.]" 
Deuteronomy18:9 When you come into the land which the Lord your God gives you, you shall not learn to follow the abominable practices of these nations." 
Deuteronomy18:10 There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or daughter pass through the fire, or who uses divination, or is a soothsayer, or an augur, or a sorcerer," 
Deuteronomy18:11 Or a charmer, or a medium, or a wizard, or a necromancer." 
Deuteronomy18:12 For all who do these things are an abomination to the Lord, and it is because of these abominable practices that the Lord your God is driving them out before you." 
Deuteronomy18:13 You shall be blameless [and absolutely true] to the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy18:14 For these nations whom you shall dispossess listen to soothsayers and diviners. But as for you, the Lord your God has not allowed you to do so." 
Deuteronomy18:15 The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet (Prophet) from the midst of your brethren like me [Moses]; to him you shall listen. [Matt. 21:11; John 1:21.] 
Deuteronomy18:16 This is what you desired [and asked] of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God or see this great fire any more, lest I die." 
Deuteronomy18:17 And the Lord said to me, They have well said all that they have spoken." 
Deuteronomy18:18 I will raise up for them a prophet (Prophet) from among their brethren like you, and will put My words in his mouth; and he shall speak to them all that I command him." 
Deuteronomy18:19 And whoever will not hearken to My words which he shall speak in My name, I Myself will require it of him." 
Deuteronomy18:20 But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in My name which I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die." 
Deuteronomy18:21 And if you say in your [minds and] hearts, How shall we know which words the Lord has not spoken?" 
Deuteronomy18:22 When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or prove true, that is a word which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously; you shall not be afraid of him." 
Deuteronomy19:1 WHEN THE Lord your God has cut off the nations whose land the Lord your God gives you, and you dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses," 
Deuteronomy19:2 You shall set apart three cities for yourselves in the land which the Lord your God gives you to possess. 
Deuteronomy19:3 You shall prepare the road and divide into three parts the territory of your land which the Lord your God gives you to possess, so that any manslayer can flee to them." 
Deuteronomy19:4 And this is the case of the slayer who shall flee there in order that he may live. Whoever kills his neighbor unintentionally, for whom he had no enmity in time past," 
Deuteronomy19:5 As when a man goes into the wood with his neighbor to hew wood, and his hand strikes with the ax to cut down the tree, and the head slips off the handle and lights on his neighbor and kills him,he may flee to one of those cities and live;" 
Deuteronomy19:6 Lest the avenger of the blood pursue the slayer while his [mind and] heart are hot with anger and overtake him, because the way is long, and slay him even though the slayer was not worthy of death, since he had not been at enmity with him previously." 
Deuteronomy19:7 Therefore I command you, You shall set apart three [refuge] cities." 
Deuteronomy19:8 And if the Lord your God enlarges your territory, as He has sworn to your fathers to do, and gives you all the land which He promised to your fathers to give," 
Deuteronomy19:9 If you keep all these commandments to do them, which I command you this day, to love the Lord your God and to walk always in His ways, then you shall add three other cities to these three," 
Deuteronomy19:10 Lest innocent blood be shed in your land, which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance, and so blood guilt be upon you." 
Deuteronomy19:11 But if any man hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him, and attacks him and wounds him mortally so that he dies, and the assailant flees into one of these cities," 
Deuteronomy19:12 Then the elders of his own city shall send for him and fetch him from there and give him over to the avenger of blood, so that he may die." 
Deuteronomy19:13 Your eyes shall not pity him, but you shall clear Israel of the guilt of innocent blood, that it may go well with you." 
Deuteronomy19:14 You shall not remove your neighbor's landmark in the land which the Lord your God gives you to possess, which the men of old [the first dividers of the land] set." 
Deuteronomy19:15 One witness shall not prevail against a man for any crime or any wrong in connection with any sin he commits; only on the testimony of two or three witnesses shall a charge be established. 
Deuteronomy19:16 If a false witness rises up against any man to accuse him of wrongdoing," 
Deuteronomy19:17 Then both parties to the controversy shall stand before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who are in office in those days." 
Deuteronomy19:18 The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely," 
Deuteronomy19:19 Then you shall do to him as he had intended to do to his brother. So you shall put away the evil from among you. 
Deuteronomy19:20 And those who remain shall hear and [reverently] fear, and shall henceforth commit no such evil among you." 
Deuteronomy19:21 Your eyes shall not pity: it shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot." 
Deuteronomy20:1 WHEN YOU go forth to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots and an army greater than your own, do not be afraid of them, for the Lord your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, is with you." 
Deuteronomy20:2 And when you come near to the battle, the priest shall approach and speak to the men," 
Deuteronomy20:3 And shall say to them, Hear, O Israel, you draw near this day to battle against your enemies. Let not your [minds and] hearts faint; fear not, and do not tremble or be terrified [and in dread] because of them." 
Deuteronomy20:4 For the Lord your God is He Who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to save you. [I Sam. 17:45.] 
Deuteronomy20:5 And the officers shall speak to the people, saying, What man is there who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it." 
Deuteronomy20:6 And what man has planted a vineyard and has not used the fruit of it? Let him also return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man use the fruit of it." 
Deuteronomy20:7 And what man has betrothed a wife and has not taken her? Let him return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man take her." 
Deuteronomy20:8 And the officers shall speak further to the people, and say, What man is fearful and fainthearted? Let him return to his house, lest [because of him] his brethren's [minds and] hearts faint as does his own." 
Deuteronomy20:9 And when the officers finish speaking to the people, they shall appoint commanders at the head of the people." 
Deuteronomy20:10 When you draw near to a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace to it." 
Deuteronomy20:11 And if that city makes an answer of peace to you and opens to you, then all the people found in it shall be tributary to you and they shall serve you." 
Deuteronomy20:12 But if it refuses to make peace with you and fights against you, then you shall besiege it." 
Deuteronomy20:13 And when the Lord your God has given it into your hands, you shall smite every male there with the edge of the sword." 
Deuteronomy20:14 But the women, the little ones, the beasts, and all that is in the city, all the spoil in it, you shall take for yourselves; and you shall use the spoil of your enemies which the Lord your God has given you." 
Deuteronomy20:15 So shall you treat all the cities that are very far off from you, that do not belong to the cities of these nations." 
Deuteronomy20:16 But in the cities of these people which the Lord your God gives you for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing that breathes." 
Deuteronomy20:17 But you shall utterly exterminate them, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, as the Lord your God has commanded you," 
Deuteronomy20:18 So that they may not teach you all the abominable practices they have carried on for their gods, and so cause you to sin against the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy20:19 When you besiege a city for a long time, making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy its trees by using an ax on them, for you can eat their fruit; you must not cut them down, for is the tree of the field a man, that it should be besieged by you?" 
Deuteronomy20:20 Only the trees which you know are not trees for food you may destroy and cut down, that you may build siege works against the city that makes war with you until it falls." 
Deuteronomy21:1 IF ONE is found slain in the land which the Lord your God gives you to possess, lying in the field, and it is not known who has killed him," 
Deuteronomy21:2 Then your elders and judges shall come forth and measure the distance to the cities around him who is slain. 
Deuteronomy21:3 And the city which is nearest to the slain man, the elders of that city shall take a heifer which has never been worked, never pulled in the yoke," 
Deuteronomy21:4 And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with running water which is neither plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley." 
Deuteronomy21:5 And the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come near, for the Lord your God has chosen them to minister to Him and to bless in the name [and presence] of the Lord, and by their word shall every controversy and every assault be settled." 
Deuteronomy21:6 And all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley," 
Deuteronomy21:7 And they shall testify, Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it." 
Deuteronomy21:8 Forgive, O Lord, Your people Israel, whom You have redeemed, and do not allow the shedding of innocent blood to be charged to Your people Israel. And the guilt of blood shall be forgiven them." 
Deuteronomy21:9 So shall you purge the guilt of innocent blood from among you, when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord." 
Deuteronomy21:10 When you go forth to battle against your enemies and the Lord your God has given them into your hands and you carry them away captive," 
Deuteronomy21:11 And you see among the captives a beautiful woman and desire her, that you may have her as your wife," 
Deuteronomy21:12 Then you shall bring her home to your house, and she shall shave her head and pare her nails [in purification from heathenism]" 
Deuteronomy21:13 And put off her prisoner's garb, and shall remain in your house and bewail her father and her mother a full month. After that you may go in to her and be her husband and she shall be your wife." 
Deuteronomy21:14 And if you have no delight in her, then you shall let her go absolutely free. You shall not sell her at all for money; you shall not deal with her as a slave or a servant, because you have humbled her." 
Deuteronomy21:15 If a man has two wives, one loved and the other disliked, and they both have borne him children, and if the firstborn son is the son of the one who is disliked," 
Deuteronomy21:16 Then on the day when he wills his possessions to his sons, he shall not put the firstborn of his loved wife in place of the [actual] firstborn of the disliked wife,her firstborn being older." 
Deuteronomy21:17 But he shall acknowledge the son of the disliked as the firstborn by giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he was the first issue of his strength; the right of the firstborn is his." 
Deuteronomy21:18 If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or his mother and though they chasten him will not listen to them," 
Deuteronomy21:19 Then his father and mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city at the gate of the place where he lives," 
Deuteronomy21:20 And they shall say to the elders of his city, This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard. [Prov. 23:20-22.]" 
Deuteronomy21:21 Then all the men of his city shall stone him to death; so you shall cleanse out the evil from your midst, and all Israel shall hear and [reverently] fear." 
Deuteronomy21:22 And if a man has committed a sin worthy of death and he is put to death and [afterward] you hang him on a tree, [Josh. 10:26, 27.]" 
Deuteronomy21:23 His body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but you shall surely bury him on the same day, for a hanged man is accursed by God. Thus you shall not defile your land which the Lord your God gives you for an inheritance. [Gal. 3:13.]" 
Deuteronomy22:1 YOU SHALL not see your brother's ox or his sheep being driven away or stolen, and hide yourself from [your duty to help] them; you shall surely take them back to your brother. [Prov. 24:12.]" 
Deuteronomy22:2 And if your brother [the owner] is not near you or if you do not know who he is, you shall bring the animal to your house and it shall be with you until your brother comes looking for it; then you shall restore it to him." 
Deuteronomy22:3 And so shall you do with his donkey or his garment or with anything which your brother has lost and you have found. You shall not hide from [your duty concerning] them. 
Deuteronomy22:4 You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fall down by the way, and hide from [your duty concerning] them; you shall surely help him to lift them up again." 
Deuteronomy22:5 The woman shall not wear that which pertains to a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment, for all that do so are an abomination to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy22:6 If a bird's nest should chance to be before you in the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the mother bird is sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother bird with the young." 
Deuteronomy22:7 You shall surely let the mother bird go, and take only the young, that it may be well with you and that you may prolong your days." 
Deuteronomy22:8 When you build a new house, then you shall put a railing around your [flat] roof, so that no one may fall from there and bring guilt of blood upon your house." 
Deuteronomy22:9 You shall not plant your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole crop be forfeited [under this ban], the seed which you have sown and the yield of the vineyard forfeited to the sanctuary." 
Deuteronomy22:10 You shall not plow with an ox [a clean animal] and a donkey [unclean] together. [II Cor. 6:14-16.] 
Deuteronomy22:11 You shall not wear a garment of mingled stuff, wool and linen together. [Ezek. 44:18; Rev. 19:8.]" 
Deuteronomy22:12 You shall make yourself tassels on the four corners of your cloak with which you cover yourself. [Num. 15:37-40.] 
Deuteronomy22:13 If any man takes a wife and goes in to her, and then scorns her" 
Deuteronomy22:14 And charges her with shameful things and gives her an evil reputation, and says, I took this woman, but when I came to her, I did not find in her the tokens of a virgin," 
Deuteronomy22:15 Then the father of the young woman, and her mother, shall get and bring out the tokens of her virginity to the elders of the city at the gate." 
Deuteronomy22:16 And her father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man as wife, but he hates and spurns her;" 
Deuteronomy22:17 And behold, he has made shameful charges against her, saying, I found not in your daughter the evidences of her virginity. And yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the garment before the elders of the city," 
Deuteronomy22:18 And the elders of that city shall take the man and rebuke and whip him. 
Deuteronomy22:19 And they shall fine him 100 shekels of silver and give them to the father of the young woman, because he has brought an evil name upon a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife; he may not divorce her all his days." 
Deuteronomy22:20 But if it is true that the evidences of virginity were not found in the young woman," 
Deuteronomy22:21 Then they shall bring her to the door of her father's house and the men of her city shall stone her to death, because she has wrought [criminal] folly in Israel by playing the harlot in her father's house. So you shall put away the evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy22:22 If a man is found lying with another man's wife, they shall both die, the man who lay with the woman and the woman. So you shall purge the evil from Israel." 
Deuteronomy22:23 If a maiden who is a virgin is engaged to be married, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her," 
Deuteronomy22:24 Then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city and shall stone them to death,the young woman because she did not cry for help though she was in the city, and the man because he has violated his neighbor's [promised] wife. So shall you put away evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy22:25 But if a man finds the betrothed maiden in the open country and the man seizes her and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die." 
Deuteronomy22:26 But you shall do nothing to the young woman; she has committed no sin punishable by death, for this is as when a man attacks and slays his neighbor," 
Deuteronomy22:27 For he came upon her in the open country, and the betrothed girl cried out, but there was no one to save her." 
Deuteronomy22:28 If a man finds a girl who is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and he seizes her and lies with her and they are found," 
Deuteronomy22:29 Then the man who lay with her shall give to the girl's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has violated her; he may not divorce her all his days." 
Deuteronomy22:30 A man shall not take his father's former wife, nor shall he uncover her who belongs to his father." 
Deuteronomy23:1 HE WHO is wounded in the testicles, or has been made a eunuch, shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord." 
Deuteronomy23:2 A person begotten out of wedlock shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord; even to his tenth generation shall his descendants not enter into the congregation of the Lord. 
Deuteronomy23:3 An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord; even to their tenth generation their descendants shall not enter into the assembly of the Lord forever," 
Deuteronomy23:4 Because they did not meet you with food and water on the way when you came forth out of Egypt, and because they hired Balaam son of Beor of Pethor of Mesopotamia against you to curse you." 
Deuteronomy23:5 Nevertheless, the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam, but the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing to you, because the Lord your God loves you." 
Deuteronomy23:6 You shall not seek their peace or their prosperity all your days forever. 
Deuteronomy23:7 You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother [Esau's descendant]. You shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you were a stranger and temporary resident in his land." 
Deuteronomy23:8 Their children may enter into the congregation of the Lord in their third generation. 
Deuteronomy23:9 When you go forth against your enemies and are in camp, you shall keep yourselves from every evil thing." 
Deuteronomy23:10 If there is among you any man who is not clean by reason of what happens to him at night, then he shall go outside the camp; he shall not come within the camp;" 
Deuteronomy23:11 But when evening comes he shall bathe himself in water, and when the sun is down he may return to the camp." 
Deuteronomy23:12 You shall have a place also outside the camp to which you shall go [as a comfort station]; 
Deuteronomy23:13 And you shall have a paddle or shovel among your weapons, and when you sit down outside [to relieve yourself], you shall dig a hole with it and turn back and cover up what has come from you." 
Deuteronomy23:14 For the Lord your God walks in the midst of your camp to deliver you and to give up your enemies before you. Therefore shall your camp be holy, that He may see nothing indecent among you and turn away from you." 
Deuteronomy23:15 You shall not give up to his master a servant who has escaped from his master to you. 
Deuteronomy23:16 He shall dwell with you in your midst wherever he chooses in one of your towns where it pleases him best. You shall not defraud or oppress him. 
Deuteronomy23:17 There shall be no cult prostitute among the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a cult prostitute (a sodomite) among the sons of Israel." 
Deuteronomy23:18 You shall not bring the hire of a harlot or the price of a dog (a sodomite) into the house of the Lord your God as payment of a vow, for both of these [the gift and the giver] are an abomination to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy23:19 You shall not lend on interest to your brother,interest on money, on victuals, on anything that is lent for interest." 
Deuteronomy23:20 You may lend on interest to a foreigner, but to your brother you shall not lend on interest, that the Lord your God may bless you in all that you undertake in the land to which you go to possess it." 
Deuteronomy23:21 When you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not be slack in paying it, for the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and slackness would be sin in you." 
Deuteronomy23:22 But if you refrain from vowing, it will not be sin in you." 
Deuteronomy23:23 The vow which has passed your lips you shall be watchful to perform, a voluntary offering which you have made to the Lord your God, which you have promised with your mouth." 
Deuteronomy23:24 When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes, as many as you please, but you shall not put any in your vessel." 
Deuteronomy23:25 When you come into the standing grain of your neighbor, you may pluck the ears with your hand, but you shall not put a sickle to your neighbor's standing grain." 
Deuteronomy24:1 WHEN A man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her, and he writes her a bill of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house," 
Deuteronomy24:2 And when she departs out of his house she goes and marries another man," 
Deuteronomy24:3 And if the latter husband dislikes her and writes her a bill of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her as his wife," 
Deuteronomy24:4 Then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife after she is defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord; and you shall not bring guilt upon the land which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance." 
Deuteronomy24:5 When a man is newly married, he shall not go out with the army or be charged with any business; he shall be free at home one year and shall cheer his wife whom he has taken." 
Deuteronomy24:6 No man shall take a mill or an upper millstone in pledge, for he would be taking a life in pledge." 
Deuteronomy24:7 If a man is found kidnapping any of his brethren of the Israelites and treats him as a slave or a servant or sells him, then that thief shall die. So you shall put evil from among you." 
Deuteronomy24:8 Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that you watch diligently and do according to all that the Levitical priests shall teach you. As I commanded them, so you shall be watchful and do. [Lev. 13:14, 15.]" 
Deuteronomy24:9 Remember [earnestly] what the Lord your God did to Miriam on the way after you had come out of Egypt. [Num. 12:10.] 
Deuteronomy24:10 When you lend your brother anything, you shall not go into his house to get his pledge." 
Deuteronomy24:11 You shall stand outside and the man to whom you lend shall bring the pledge out to you. 
Deuteronomy24:12 And if the man is poor, you shall not keep his pledge overnight." 
Deuteronomy24:13 You shall surely restore to him the pledge at sunset, that he may sleep in his garment and bless you; and it shall be credited to you as righteousness (rightness and justice) before the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy24:14 You shall not oppress or extort from a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether he is of your brethren or of your strangers and sojourners who are in your land inside your towns." 
Deuteronomy24:15 You shall give him his hire on the day he earns it before the sun goes down, for he is poor, and sets his heart upon it; lest he cry against you to the Lord, and it be sin to you." 
Deuteronomy24:16 The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers; only for his own sin shall anyone be put to death." 
Deuteronomy24:17 You shall not pervert the justice due the stranger or the sojourner or the fatherless, or take a widow's garment in pledge." 
Deuteronomy24:18 But you shall [earnestly] remember that you were a slave in Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you from there; therefore I command you to do this. 
Deuteronomy24:19 When you reap your harvest in your field and have forgotten a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it; it shall be for the stranger and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands." 
Deuteronomy24:20 When you beat your olive tree, do not go over the boughs again; the leavings shall be for the stranger and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow." 
Deuteronomy24:21 When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it afterward; it shall be for the stranger and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow." 
Deuteronomy24:22 You shall [earnestly] remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this. 
Deuteronomy25:1 IF THERE is a controversy between men, and they come into court and the judges decide between them, justifying the innocent and condemning the guilty," 
Deuteronomy25:2 Then if the guilty man deserves to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence with a certain number of stripes according to his offense." 
Deuteronomy25:3 Forty stripes may be given him but not more, lest, if he should be beaten with many stripes, your brother should [be treated like a beast and] seem low and worthless to you." 
Deuteronomy25:4 You shall not muzzle the ox when he treads out the grain. [I Cor. 9:9, 10; I Tim. 5:17, 18.]" 
Deuteronomy25:5 If brothers live together and one of them dies and has no son, his wife shall not be married outside the family to a stranger [an excluded man]. Her husband's brother shall go in to her and take her as his wife and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her." 
Deuteronomy25:6 And the firstborn son shall succeed to the name of the dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel." 
Deuteronomy25:7 And if the man does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders, and say, My husband's brother refuses to continue his brother's name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of my husband's brother." 
Deuteronomy25:8 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. And if he stands firm and says, I do not want to take her," 
Deuteronomy25:9 Then shall his brother's wife come to him in the presence of the elders and pull his shoe off his foot and spit in his face and shall answer, So shall it be done to that man who does not build up his brother's house." 
Deuteronomy25:10 And his family shall be called in Israel, The House of Him Whose Shoe Was Loosed." 
Deuteronomy25:11 When men strive together one with another and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband out of the hand of him who is beating him, and puts out her hand and seizes the other man by the private parts," 
Deuteronomy25:12 Then you shall cut off her hand; your eyes shall not pity her. 
Deuteronomy25:13 You shall not have in your bag true and false weights, a large and a small." 
Deuteronomy25:14 You shall not have in your house true and false measures, a large and a small." 
Deuteronomy25:15 But you shall have a perfect and just weight and a perfect and just measure, that your days may be prolonged in the land which the Lord your God gives you." 
Deuteronomy25:16 For all who do such things, all who do unrighteously, are an abomination to the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy25:17 Remember what Amalek did to you on the way when you had come forth from Egypt," 
Deuteronomy25:18 How he did not fear God, but when you were faint and weary he attacked you along the way and cut off all the stragglers at your rear. [Exod. 17:14.]" 
Deuteronomy25:19 Therefore when the Lord your God has given you rest from all your enemies round about in the land which the Lord your God gives you to possess as an inheritance, you shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens; you must not forget." 
Deuteronomy26:1 WHEN YOU have come into the land which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance and possess it and live in it," 
Deuteronomy26:2 You shall take some of the first of all the produce of the soil which you harvest from the land the Lord your God gives you and put it in a basket, and go to the place [the sanctuary] which the Lord your God has chosen as the abiding place for His Name [and His Presence]." 
Deuteronomy26:3 And you shall go to the priest who is in office in those days, and say to him, I give thanks this day to the Lord your God that I have come to the land which the Lord swore to our fathers to give us." 
Deuteronomy26:4 And the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy26:5 And you shall say before the Lord your God, A wandering and lost Aramean ready to perish was my father [Jacob], and he went down into Egypt and sojourned there, few in number, and he became there a nation, great, mighty, and numerous." 
Deuteronomy26:6 And the Egyptians treated us very badly and afflicted us and laid upon us hard bondage. 
Deuteronomy26:7 And when we cried to the Lord, the God of our fathers, the Lord heard our voice and looked on our affliction and our labor and our [cruel] oppression;" 
Deuteronomy26:8 And the Lord brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm, and with great (awesome) power and with signs and with wonders;" 
Deuteronomy26:9 And He brought us into this place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy26:10 And now, behold, I bring the firstfruits of the ground which You, O Lord, have given me. And you shall set it down before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God;" 
Deuteronomy26:11 And you and the Levite and the stranger and the sojourner among you shall rejoice in all the good which the Lord your God has given you and your household. 
Deuteronomy26:12 When you have finished paying all the tithe of your produce the third year, which is the year of tithing, and have given it to the Levite, the stranger and the sojourner, the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within your towns and be filled," 
Deuteronomy26:13 Then you shall say before the Lord your God, I have brought the hallowed things (the tithe) out of my house and moreover have given them to the Levite, to the stranger and the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all Your commandments which You have commanded me; I have not transgressed any of Your commandments, neither have I forgotten them." 
Deuteronomy26:14 I have not eaten of the tithe in my mourning [making the tithe unclean], nor have I handled any of it when I was unclean, nor given any of it to the dead. I have hearkened to the voice of the Lord my God; I have done according to all that You have commanded me." 
Deuteronomy26:15 Look down from Your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless Your people Israel and the land which You have given us as You swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy26:16 This day the Lord your God has commanded you to do these statutes and ordinances. Therefore you shall keep and do them with all your [mind and] heart and with all your being. 
Deuteronomy26:17 You have [openly] declared the Lord this day to be your God, [pledging] to walk in His ways, to keep His statutes and His commandments and His precepts, and to hearken to His voice." 
Deuteronomy26:18 And the Lord has declared this day that you are His peculiar people as He promised you, and you are to keep all His commandments;" 
Deuteronomy26:19 And He will make you high above all nations which He has made, in praise and in fame and in honor, and that you shall be a holy people to the Lord your God, as He has spoken." 
Deuteronomy27:1 AND MOSES with the elders of Israel commanded the people, Keep all the commandments with which I charge you today." 
Deuteronomy27:2 And on the day when you pass over the Jordan to the land which the Lord your God gives you, you shall set up great stones and cover them with plaster." 
Deuteronomy27:3 And you shall write on them all the words of this law when you have passed over, that you may go into the land which the Lord your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you." 
Deuteronomy27:4 And when you have gone over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, as I command you this day, on Mount Ebal, and coat them with plaster." 
Deuteronomy27:5 And there you shall build an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones; you shall not lift up any iron tool upon them." 
Deuteronomy27:6 You shall build the altar of the Lord your God of whole stones and offer burnt offerings on it to Him; 
Deuteronomy27:7 And you shall offer peace offerings, and eat there and rejoice before the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy27:8 And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly. 
Deuteronomy27:9 And Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, Keep silence and hear, O Israel! This day you have become the people of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy27:10 So you shall obey the voice of the Lord your God and do His commandments and statutes which I command you today. 
Deuteronomy27:11 And Moses charged the people the same day, saying," 
Deuteronomy27:12 These [tribes] shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people, when you have passed over the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph's [sons], and Benjamin." 
Deuteronomy27:13 And these [tribes] shall stand on Mount Ebal to pronounce the curse [for disobedience]: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali." 
Deuteronomy27:14 And the Levites shall declare with a loud voice to all the men of Israel: 
Deuteronomy27:15 Cursed is the man who makes a graven or molten image, an abomination to the Lord, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret. All the people shall answer, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:16 Cursed is he who dishonors his father or his mother. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:17 Cursed is he who moves [back] his neighbor's landmark. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:18 Cursed is he who misleads a blind man on his way. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:19 Cursed is he who perverts the justice due to the sojourner or the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:20 Cursed is he who lies with his father's wife, because he uncovers what belongs to his father. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:21 Cursed is he who lies with any beast. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:22 Cursed is he who lies with his half sister, whether his father's or his mother's daughter. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:23 Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:24 Cursed is he who slays his neighbor secretly. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:25 Cursed is he who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy27:26 Cursed is he who does not support and give assent to the words of this law to do them [as the rule of his life]. All the people shall say, Amen." 
Deuteronomy28:1 IF YOU will listen diligently to the voice of the Lord your God, being watchful to do all His commandments which I command you this day, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth." 
Deuteronomy28:2 And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you if you heed the voice of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy28:3 Blessed shall you be in the city and blessed shall you be in the field. 
Deuteronomy28:4 Blessed shall be the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground and the fruit of your beasts, the increase of your cattle and the young of your flock." 
Deuteronomy28:5 Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading trough. 
Deuteronomy28:6 Blessed shall you be when you come in and blessed shall you be when you go out. 
Deuteronomy28:7 The Lord shall cause your enemies who rise up against you to be defeated before your face; they shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways. 
Deuteronomy28:8 The Lord shall command the blessing upon you in your storehouse and in all that you undertake. And He will bless you in the land which the Lord your God gives you. 
Deuteronomy28:9 The Lord will establish you as a people holy to Himself, as He has sworn to you, if you keep the commandments of the Lord your God and walk in His ways." 
Deuteronomy28:10 And all people of the earth shall see that you are called by the name [and in the presence of] the Lord, and they shall be afraid of you." 
Deuteronomy28:11 And the Lord shall make you have a surplus of prosperity, through the fruit of your body, of your livestock, and of your ground, in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers to give you." 
Deuteronomy28:12 The Lord shall open to you His good treasury, the heavens, to give the rain of your land in its season and to bless all the work of your hands; and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow." 
Deuteronomy28:13 And the Lord shall make you the head, and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath, if you heed the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you this day and are watchful to do them." 
Deuteronomy28:14 And you shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them." 
Deuteronomy28:15 But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God, being watchful to do all His commandments and His statutes which I command you this day, then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you:" 
Deuteronomy28:16 Cursed shall you be in the city and cursed shall you be in the field. 
Deuteronomy28:17 Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading trough. 
Deuteronomy28:18 Cursed shall be the fruit of your body, of your land, of the increase of your cattle and the young of your sheep." 
Deuteronomy28:19 Cursed shall you be when you come in and cursed shall you be when you go out. 
Deuteronomy28:20 The Lord shall send you curses, confusion, and rebuke in every enterprise to which you set your hand, until you are destroyed, perishing quickly because of the evil of your doings by which you have forsaken me [Moses and God as one]." 
Deuteronomy28:21 The Lord will make the pestilence cling to you until He has consumed you from the land into which you go to possess. 
Deuteronomy28:22 The Lord will smite you with consumption, with fever and inflammation, fiery heat, sword and drought, blasting and mildew; they shall pursue you until you perish." 
Deuteronomy28:23 The heavens over your head shall be brass and the earth under you shall be iron. 
Deuteronomy28:24 The Lord shall make the rain of your land powdered soil and dust; from the heavens it shall come down upon you until you are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy28:25 The Lord shall cause you to be struck down before your enemies; you shall go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them, and you shall be tossed to and fro and be a terror among all the kingdoms of the earth. [Fulfilled in II Chron. 29:8.]" 
Deuteronomy28:26 And your dead body shall be food for all the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and there shall be no one to frighten them away." 
Deuteronomy28:27 The Lord will smite you with the boils of Egypt and the tumors, the scurvy and the itch, from which you cannot be healed." 
Deuteronomy28:28 The Lord will smite you with madness and blindness and dismay of [mind and] heart. 
Deuteronomy28:29 And you shall grope at noonday as the blind grope in darkness. And you shall not prosper in your ways; and you shall be only oppressed and robbed continually, and there shall be no one to save you." 
Deuteronomy28:30 You shall betroth a wife, but another man shall lie with her; you shall build a house, but not live in it; you shall plant a vineyard, but not gather its grapes." 
Deuteronomy28:31 Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, but you shall not eat of it; your donkey shall be violently taken away before your face and not be restored to you; your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have no one to help you." 
Deuteronomy28:32 Your sons and daughters shall be given to another people, and your eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all the day; and there shall be no power in your hands to prevent it. [Fulfilled in II Chron. 29:9.]" 
Deuteronomy28:33 A nation which you have not known shall eat up the fruit of your land and of all your labors, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually, [Fulfilled in Judg. 6:1-6; 13:1.]" 
Deuteronomy28:34 So that you shall be driven mad by the sights which your eyes shall see. 
Deuteronomy28:35 The Lord will smite you on the knees and on the legs with a sore boil that cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the top of your head." 
Deuteronomy28:36 The Lord shall bring you and your king whom you have set over you to a nation which neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall [be forced to] serve other gods, of wood and stone. [Fulfilled in II Kings 17:4, 6; 24:12, 14; 25:7, 11; Dan. 6:11, 12.]" 
Deuteronomy28:37 And you shall become an amazement, a proverb, and a byword among all the peoples to which the Lord will lead you." 
Deuteronomy28:38 You shall carry much seed out into the field and shall gather little in, for the locust shall consume it. [Fulfilled in Hag. 1:6.]" 
Deuteronomy28:39 You shall plant vineyards and dress them but shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes, for the worm shall eat them." 
Deuteronomy28:40 You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory but you shall not anoint yourselves with the oil, for your olive trees shall drop their fruit." 
Deuteronomy28:41 You shall beget sons and daughters but shall not enjoy them, for they shall go into captivity. [Fulfilled in Lam. 1:5.]" 
Deuteronomy28:42 All your trees and the fruit of your ground shall the locust possess. [Fulfilled in Joel 1:4.] 
Deuteronomy28:42 All your trees and the fruit of your ground shall the locust possess. [Fulfilled in Joel 1:4.] 
Deuteronomy28:43 The transient (stranger) among you shall mount up higher and higher above you, and you shall come down lower and lower." 
Deuteronomy28:44 He shall lend to you, but you shall not lend to him; he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail." 
Deuteronomy28:45 All these curses shall come upon you and shall pursue you and overtake you till you are destroyed, because you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which He commanded you." 
Deuteronomy28:46 They shall be upon you for a sign [of warning to other nations] and for a wonder, and upon your descendants forever." 
Deuteronomy28:47 Because you did not serve the Lord your God with joyfulness of [mind and] heart [in gratitude] for the abundance of all [with which He had blessed you]," 
Deuteronomy28:48 Therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the Lord shall send against you, in hunger and thirst, in nakedness and in want of all things; and He will put a yoke of iron upon your neck until He has destroyed you." 
Deuteronomy28:49 The Lord will bring a nation against you from afar, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies, a nation whose language you shall not understand," 
Deuteronomy28:50 A nation of unyielding countenance who will not regard the person of the old or show favor to the young," 
Deuteronomy28:51 And shall eat the fruit of your cattle and the fruit of your ground until you are destroyed, who also shall not leave you grain, new wine, oil, the increase of your cattle or the young of your sheep until they have caused you to perish." 
Deuteronomy28:52 They shall besiege you in all your towns until your high and fortified walls in which you trusted come down throughout all your land; and they shall besiege you in all your towns throughout all your land which the Lord your God has given you. 
Deuteronomy28:53 And you shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and daughters whom the Lord your God has given you, in the siege and in the [pressing] misery with which your enemies shall distress you. [Fulfilled in II Kings 6:24-29.]" 
Deuteronomy28:54 The man who is most tender among you and extremely particular and well-bred, his eye shall be cruel and grudging of food toward his brother and toward the wife of his bosom and toward those of his children still remaining," 
Deuteronomy28:55 So that he will not give to any of them any of the flesh of his children which he is eating, because he has nothing left to him in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you in all your towns." 
Deuteronomy28:56 The most tender and daintily bred woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot upon the ground because she is so dainty and kind, will grudge to the husband of her bosom, to her son and to her daughter" 
Deuteronomy28:57 Her afterbirth that comes out from her body and the children whom she shall bear. For she will eat them secretly for want of anything else in the siege and distress with which your enemies shall distress you in your towns. 
Deuteronomy28:58 If you will not be watchful to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may [reverently] fear this glorious and fearful name [and presence],THE LORD YOUR%(GOD," 
Deuteronomy28:59 Then the Lord will bring upon you and your descendants extraordinary strokes and blows, great plagues of long continuance, and grievous sicknesses of long duration." 
Deuteronomy28:60 Moreover, He will bring upon you all the diseases of Egypt of which you were afraid, and they shall cling to you." 
Deuteronomy28:61 Also every sickness and every affliction which is not written in this Book of the Law the Lord will bring upon you until you are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy28:62 And you shall be left few in number, whereas you had been as the stars of the heavens for multitude, because you would not obey the voice of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy28:63 And as the Lord rejoiced over you to do you good and to multiply you, so the Lord will rejoice to bring ruin upon you and to destroy you; and you shall be plucked from the land into which you go to possess." 
Deuteronomy28:64 And the Lord shall scatter you among all peoples from one end of the earth to the other; and there you shall [be forced to] serve other gods, of wood and stone, which neither you nor your fathers have known. [Fulfilled in Dan. 3:6.]" 
Deuteronomy28:65 And among these nations you shall find no ease and there shall be no rest for the sole of your foot; but the Lord will give you there a trembling heart, failing of eyes [from disappointment of hope], fainting of mind, and languishing of spirit." 
Deuteronomy28:66 Your life shall hang in doubt before you; day and night you shall be worried, and have no assurance of your life." 
Deuteronomy28:67 In the morning you shall say, Would that it were evening! and at evening you shall say, Would that it were morning!,because of the anxiety and dread of your [minds and] hearts and the sights which you shall see with your [own] eyes." 
Deuteronomy28:68 And the Lord shall bring you into Egypt again with ships by the way about which I said to you, You shall never see it again. And there you shall be sold to your enemies as bondmen and bondwomen, but no man shall buy you. [Hos. 8:13.]" 
Deuteronomy29:1 THESE ARE the words of the covenant which the Lord commanded Moses to make with the Israelites in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which He made with them in Horeb." 
Deuteronomy29:2 Moses called to all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, to all his servants, and to all his land;" 
Deuteronomy29:3 The great trials which your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders." 
Deuteronomy29:4 Yet the Lord has not given you a [mind and] heart to understand and eyes to see and ears to hear, to this day." 
Deuteronomy29:5 I have led you forty years in the wilderness; your clothes have not worn out upon you, and your sandals have not worn off your feet." 
Deuteronomy29:6 You have not eaten [grain] bread, nor have you drunk wine or strong drink, that you might recognize and know [your dependence on Him Who is saying], I am the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy29:7 And when you came to this place, Sihon king of Heshbon and Og king of Bashan came out against us to battle, but we defeated them." 
Deuteronomy29:8 We took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites." 
Deuteronomy29:9 Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may deal wisely and prosper in all that you do." 
Deuteronomy29:10 All of you stand today before the Lord your God,your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel," 
Deuteronomy29:11 Your little ones, your wives, and the stranger and sojourner in your camp, from the hewer of your wood to the drawer of your water," 
Deuteronomy29:12 That you may enter into the covenant of the Lord your God, and into His oath which He makes with you today," 
Deuteronomy29:13 That He may establish you this day as a people for Himself, and that He may be to you a God as He said to you and as He swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy29:14 It is not with you only that I make this sworn covenant 
Deuteronomy29:15 But with future Israelites who do not stand here with us today before the Lord our God, as well as with those who are here with us this day." 
Deuteronomy29:16 You know how we lived in the land of Egypt and how we came through the midst of the nations you crossed. 
Deuteronomy29:17 And you have seen their abominations and their idols of wood and stone, of silver and gold, which were among them." 
Deuteronomy29:18 Beware lest there should be among you a man or woman, or family or tribe, whose [mind and] heart turns away this day from the Lord our God to go and serve the gods of these nations; lest there should be among you a [poisonous] root that bears gall and wormwood," 
Deuteronomy29:19 And lest, when he hears the words of this curse and oath, he flatters and congratulates himself in his [mind and] heart, saying, I shall have peace and safety, though I walk in the stubbornness of my [mind and] heart [bringing down a hurricane of destruction] and sweep away the watered land with the dry." 
Deuteronomy29:20 The Lord will not pardon him, but then the anger of the Lord and His jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall settle on him; the Lord will blot out his very name from under the heavens." 
Deuteronomy29:21 And the Lord will single him out for ruin and destruction from all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this Book of the Law," 
Deuteronomy29:22 So that the next generation, your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who shall come from a distant land, shall say, when they see the plagues of this land and the diseases with which the Lord has made it sick," 
Deuteronomy29:23 The whole land is brimstone and salt and a burned waste, not sown or bearing anything, where no grass can take root, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah with Admah and Zeboiim, which the Lord overthrew in His anger and wrath," 
Deuteronomy29:24 Even all the nations shall say, Why has the Lord done thus to this land? What does the heat of this great anger mean?" 
Deuteronomy29:25 Then men shall say, Because they forsook the covenant of the Lord, the God of their fathers, which He made with them when He brought them forth out of the land of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy29:26 For they went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods they knew not and that He had not given to them." 
Deuteronomy29:27 So the anger of the Lord was kindled against this land, bringing upon it all the curses that are written in this book." 
Deuteronomy29:28 And the Lord rooted them out of their land in anger and in wrath and in great indignation and cast them into another land, as it is this day." 
Deuteronomy29:29 The secret things belong unto the Lord our God, but the things which are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all of the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy30:1 AND WHEN all these things have come upon you, the blessings and the curses which I have set before you, and you shall call them to mind among all the nations where the Lord your God has driven you," 
Deuteronomy30:2 And shall return to the Lord your God and obey His voice according to all that I command you today, you and your children, with all your [mind and] heart and with all your being," 
Deuteronomy30:3 Then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion upon you and will gather you again from all the nations where He has scattered you. 
Deuteronomy30:4 Even if any of your dispersed are in the uttermost parts of the heavens, from there the Lord your God will gather you and from there will He bring you." 
Deuteronomy30:5 And the Lord your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it; and He will do you good and multiply you above your fathers." 
Deuteronomy30:6 And the Lord your God will circumcise your hearts and the hearts of your descendants, to love the Lord your God with all your [mind and] heart and with all your being, that you may live." 
Deuteronomy30:7 And the Lord your God will put all these curses upon your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecute you." 
Deuteronomy30:8 And you shall return and obey the voice of the Lord and do all His commandments which I command you today. 
Deuteronomy30:9 And the Lord your God will make you abundantly prosperous in every work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, of your cattle, of your land, for good; for the Lord will again delight in prospering you, as He took delight in your fathers," 
Deuteronomy30:10 If you obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which are written in this Book of the Law, and if you turn to the Lord your God with all your [mind and] heart and with all your being." 
Deuteronomy30:11 For this commandment which I command you this day is not too difficult for you, nor is it far off." 
Deuteronomy30:12 It is not [a secret laid up] in heaven, that you should say, Who shall go up for us to heaven and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it?" 
Deuteronomy30:13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, Who shall go over the sea for us and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it?" 
Deuteronomy30:14 But the word is very near you, in your mouth and in your mind and in your heart, so that you can do it." 
Deuteronomy30:15 See, I have set before you this day life and good, and death and evil." 
Deuteronomy30:16 [If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God which] I command you today, to love the Lord your God, to walk in His ways, and to keep His commandments and His statutes and His ordinances, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land into which you go to possess." 
Deuteronomy30:17 But if your [mind and] heart turn away and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them," 
Deuteronomy30:18 I declare to you today that you shall surely perish, and you shall not live long in the land which you pass over the Jordan to enter and possess." 
Deuteronomy30:19 I call heaven and earth to witness this day against you that I have set before you life and death, the blessings and the curses; therefore choose life, that you and your descendants may live" 
Deuteronomy30:20 And may love the Lord your God, obey His voice, and cling to Him. For He is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell in the land which the Lord swore to give to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy31:1 AND MOSES went on speaking these words to all Israel: 
Deuteronomy31:2 And he said to them, I am 120 years old this day; I can no more go out and come in. And the Lord has said to me, You shall not go over this Jordan." 
Deuteronomy31:3 The Lord your God will Himself go over before you, and He will destroy these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess them. And Joshua shall go over before you, as the Lord has said." 
Deuteronomy31:3 The Lord your God will Himself go over before you, and He will destroy these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess them. And Joshua shall go over before you, as the Lord has said." 
Deuteronomy31:4 And the Lord will do to them as He did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, when He destroyed them." 
Deuteronomy31:5 And the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to all the commandments which I have commanded you." 
Deuteronomy31:6 Be strong, courageous, and firm; fear not nor be in terror before them, for it is the Lord your God Who goes with you; He will not fail you or forsake you." 
Deuteronomy31:7 And Moses called to Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong, courageous, and firm, for you shall go with this people into the land which the Lord has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall cause them to possess it." 
Deuteronomy31:7 And Moses called to Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong, courageous, and firm, for you shall go with this people into the land which the Lord has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall cause them to possess it." 
Deuteronomy31:8 It is the Lord Who goes before you; He will [march] with you; He will not fail you or let you go or forsake you; [let there be no cowardice or flinching, but] fear not, neither become broken [in spirit,depressed, dismayed, and unnerved with alarm]." 
Deuteronomy31:9 And Moses wrote this law and delivered it to the Levitical priests, who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and to all the elders of Israel." 
Deuteronomy31:10 And Moses commanded them, At the end of every seven years, at the set time of the year of release [of debtors from their debts], at the Feast of Booths," 
Deuteronomy31:11 When all Israel comes to appear before the Lord your God in the place which He chooses [for His sanctuary], you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing." 
Deuteronomy31:12 Assemble the people,men, women, and children, and the stranger and the sojourner within your towns,that they may hear and learn [reverently] to fear the Lord your God and be watchful to do all the words of this law," 
Deuteronomy31:13 And that their children, who have not known it, may hear and learn [reverently] to fear the Lord your God as long as you live in the land which you go over the Jordan to possess." 
Deuteronomy31:14 And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, your days are nearing when you must die. Call Joshua and present yourselves at the Tent of Meeting, that I may give him his charge. And Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the Tent of Meeting." 
Deuteronomy31:14 And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, your days are nearing when you must die. Call Joshua and present yourselves at the Tent of Meeting, that I may give him his charge. And Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the Tent of Meeting." 
Deuteronomy31:15 And the Lord appeared in the Tent in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood over the door of the Tent." 
Deuteronomy31:16 And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, you shall sleep with your fathers, and this people will rise up and play the harlot after the strange gods of the land where they go to be among them; and they will forsake Me and break My covenant which I have made with them." 
Deuteronomy31:17 Then My anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide My face from them. And they shall be devoured, and many evils and troubles shall befall them, so that they will say in that day, Have not these evils come upon us because our God is not among us?" 
Deuteronomy31:18 And I will surely hide My face in that day because of all the evil which they have done in turning to other gods. 
Deuteronomy31:19 And now write this song for yourselves and teach it to the Israelites; put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for Me against the Israelites." 
Deuteronomy31:20 For when I have brought them into the land which I swore to their fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey, and they have eaten and filled themselves and become fat, then they will turn to other gods and serve them, and despise and scorn Me and break My covenant." 
Deuteronomy31:21 And when many evils and troubles have befallen them, this [sacred] song will confront them as a witness, for it will never be forgotten from the mouths of their descendants. For I know their strong desire and the purposes which they are forming even now, before I have brought them into the land which I swore to give them." 
Deuteronomy31:22 Moses wrote this song the same day and taught it to the Israelites. [Deut. 32:1-43.] 
Deuteronomy31:23 And [the Lord] charged Joshua son of Nun, Be strong and courageous and firm, for you shall bring the Israelites into the land which I swore to give them, and I will be with you." 
Deuteronomy31:23 And [the Lord] charged Joshua son of Nun, Be strong and courageous and firm, for you shall bring the Israelites into the land which I swore to give them, and I will be with you." 
Deuteronomy31:24 And when Moses had finished writing the words of this law in a book to the very end," 
Deuteronomy31:25 He commanded the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord," 
Deuteronomy31:26 Take this Book of the Law and put it by the side of the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there for a witness against you." 
Deuteronomy31:27 For I know your rebellion and stubbornness; behold, while I am yet alive with you today, you have been rebellious against the Lord; and how much more after my death!" 
Deuteronomy31:28 Gather to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, that I may speak these words in their ears and call heaven and earth to witness against them." 
Deuteronomy31:29 For I know that after my death you will utterly corrupt yourselves and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you; and evil will befall you in the latter days because you will do what is evil in the sight of the Lord, to provoke Him to anger through the work of your hands." 
Deuteronomy31:30 And Moses spoke in the hearing of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song until they were ended: 
Deuteronomy32:1 GIVE EAR, O heavens, and I [Moses] will speak; and let the earth hear the words of my mouth." 
Deuteronomy32:2 My message shall drop as the rain, my speech shall distil as the dew, as the light rain upon the tender grass, and as the showers upon the herb." 
Deuteronomy32:3 For I will proclaim the name [and presence] of the Lord. Concede and ascribe greatness to our God. 
Deuteronomy32:4 He is the Rock, His work is perfect, for all His ways are law and justice. A God of faithfulness without breach or deviation, just and right is He." 
Deuteronomy32:5 They [Israel] have spoiled themselves. They are not sons to Him, and that is their blemish,a perverse and crooked generation!" 
Deuteronomy32:6 Do you thus repay the Lord, you foolish and senseless people? Is not He your Father Who acquired you for His own, Who made and established you [as a nation]?" 
Deuteronomy32:7 Remember the days of old; consider the years of many generations. Ask your father and he will show you, your elders, and they will tell you." 
Deuteronomy32:8 When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance, when He separated the children of men, He set the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the Israelites." 
Deuteronomy32:9 For the Lord's portion is His people; Jacob (Israel) is the lot of His inheritance. 
Deuteronomy32:10 He found him in a desert land, in the howling void of the wilderness; He kept circling around him, He scanned him [penetratingly], He kept him as the pupil of His eye." 
Deuteronomy32:11 As an eagle that stirs up her nest, that flutters over her young, He spread abroad His wings and He took them, He bore them on His pinions. [Luke 13:34.]" 
Deuteronomy32:12 So the Lord alone led him; there was no foreign god with Him. 
Deuteronomy32:13 He made Israel ride on the high places of the earth, and he ate the increase of the field; and He made him suck honey out of the rock and oil out of the flinty rock," 
Deuteronomy32:14 Butter and curds of the herd and milk of the flock, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and he-goats, with the finest of the wheat; and you drank wine of the blood of the grape." 
Deuteronomy32:15 But Jeshurun (Israel) grew fat and kicked. You became fat, you grew thick, you were gorged and sleek! Then he forsook God Who made him and forsook and despised the Rock of his salvation." 
Deuteronomy32:16 They provoked Him to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations they provoked Him to anger." 
Deuteronomy32:17 They sacrificed to demons, not to God,to gods whom they knew not, to new gods lately come up, whom your fathers never knew or feared." 
Deuteronomy32:18 Of the Rock Who bore you you were unmindful; you forgot the God Who travailed in your birth. 
Deuteronomy32:19 And the Lord saw it and He spurned and rejected them, out of indignation with His sons and His daughters." 
Deuteronomy32:20 And He said, I will hide My face from them, I will see what their end will be; for they are a perverse generation, children in whom is no faithfulness." 
Deuteronomy32:21 They have moved Me to jealousy with what is not God; they have angered Me with their idols. So I will move them to jealousy with those who are not a people; I will anger them with a foolish nation. 
Deuteronomy32:22 For a fire is kindled by My anger, and it burns to the depths of Sheol, devours the earth with its increase, and sets on fire the foundations of the mountains." 
Deuteronomy32:23 And I will heap evils upon them; I will spend My arrows upon them. 
Deuteronomy32:24 They shall be wasted with hunger and devoured with burning heat and poisonous pestilence; and the teeth of beasts will I send against them, with the poison of crawling things of the dust." 
Deuteronomy32:25 From without the sword shall bereave, and in the chambers shall be terror, destroying both young man and virgin, the sucking child with the man of gray hairs." 
Deuteronomy32:26 I said, I would scatter them afar and I would have made the remembrance of them to cease from among men," 
Deuteronomy32:27 Had I not feared the provocation of the foe, lest their enemies misconstrue it and lest they should say, Our own hand has prevailed; all this was not the work of the Lord." 
Deuteronomy32:28 For they are a nation void of counsel, and there is no understanding in them." 
Deuteronomy32:29 O that they were wise and would see through this [present triumph] to their ultimate fate! 
Deuteronomy32:30 How could one have chased a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock had sold them, and the Lord had delivered them up?" 
Deuteronomy32:31 For their rock is not like our Rock, even our enemies themselves judge this." 
Deuteronomy32:32 For their vine comes from the vine of Sodom and from the fields of Gomorrah; their grapes are grapes of [poisonous] gall, their clusters are bitter." 
Deuteronomy32:33 Their wine is the [furious] venom of serpents, and the pitiless poison of vipers." 
Deuteronomy32:34 Is not this laid up in store with Me, sealed up in My treasuries?" 
Deuteronomy32:35 Vengeance is Mine, and recompense, in the time when their foot shall slide; for the day of their disaster is at hand and their doom comes speedily." 
Deuteronomy32:36 For the Lord will revoke sentence for His people and relent for His servants' sake when He sees that their power is gone and none remains, whether bond or free." 
Deuteronomy32:37 And He will say, Where are their gods, the rock in which they took refuge," 
Deuteronomy32:38 Who ate the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help you, let them be your protection!" 
Deuteronomy32:39 See now that I, I am He, and there is no god beside Me; I kill and I make alive, I wound and I heal, and there is none who can deliver out of My hand." 
Deuteronomy32:40 For I lift up My hand to heaven and swear, As I live forever," 
Deuteronomy32:41 If I whet My lightning sword and My hand takes hold on judgment, I will wreak vengeance on My foes and recompense those who hate Me." 
Deuteronomy32:42 I will make My arrows drunk with blood, and My sword shall devour flesh, with the blood of the slain and the captives, from the long-haired heads of the foe." 
Deuteronomy32:43 Rejoice [with] His people, O you nations, for He avenges the blood of His servants, and vengeance He inflicts on His foes and clears guilt from the land of His people." 
Deuteronomy32:44 And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Hoshea (Joshua) son of Nun." 
Deuteronomy32:44 And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Hoshea (Joshua) son of Nun." 
Deuteronomy32:45 And when Moses had finished speaking all these words to all Israel," 
Deuteronomy32:46 He said to them, Set your [minds and] hearts on all the words which I command you this day, that you may command them to your children, that they may be watchful to do all the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy32:47 For it is not an empty and worthless trifle for you; it is your [very] life. By it you shall live long in the land which you are going over the Jordan to possess. 
Deuteronomy32:48 And the Lord said to Moses that same day," 
Deuteronomy32:49 Get up into this mountain of the Abarim, Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, opposite Jericho, and look at the land of Canaan which I give to the Israelites for a possession." 
Deuteronomy32:50 And die on the mountain which you ascend and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people," 
Deuteronomy32:51 Because you broke faith with Me in the midst of the Israelites at the waters of Meribah-kadesh in the Wilderness of Zin and because you did not set Me apart as holy in the midst of the Israelites. 
Deuteronomy32:52 For you shall see the land opposite you at a distance, but you shall not go there, into the land which I give the Israelites." 
Deuteronomy33:1 THIS IS the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the Israelites before his death. 
Deuteronomy33:2 He said, The Lord came from Sinai and beamed upon us from Seir; He flashed forth from Mount Paran, from among ten thousands of holy ones, a flaming fire, a law, at His right hand." 
Deuteronomy33:3 Yes, He loves [the tribes] His people; all those consecrated to Him are in Your hand. They followed in Your steps; they [accepted Your word and] received direction from You," 
Deuteronomy33:4 When Moses commanded us a law, as a possession for the assembly of Jacob." 
Deuteronomy33:5 [The Lord] was King in Jeshurun (Israel) when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes of Israel together." 
Deuteronomy33:6 Let [the tribe of] Reuben live and not die out, but let his men be few." 
Deuteronomy33:7 And this he [Moses] said of Judah: Hear, O Lord, the voice of Judah, and bring him to his people! With his hands he contended for himself; but may You be a help against his enemies." 
Deuteronomy33:8 And of Levi he said: Your Thummim and Your Urim [by which the priest sought God's will for the nation] are for Your pious one [Aaron on behalf of the tribe], whom You tried and proved at Massah, with whom You contended at the waters of Meribah; [Num. 20:1-13.]" 
Deuteronomy33:9 [Aaron] who said of his father and mother, I do not regard them; nor did he acknowledge his brothers or openly recognize his own children. For the priests observed Your word and kept Your covenant [as to their limitations]." 
Deuteronomy33:10 [The priests] shall teach Jacob Your ordinances and Israel Your law. They shall put incense before You and whole burnt offerings upon Your altar. 
Deuteronomy33:11 Bless, O Lord, [Levi's] substance, and accept the work of his hands; crush the loins of his adversaries, and of those who hate him, that they arise no more." 
Deuteronomy33:12 Of Benjamin he said: The beloved of the Lord shall dwell in safety by Him; He covers him all the day long, and makes His dwelling between his shoulders." 
Deuteronomy33:13 And of Joseph he said: Blessed by the Lord be his land, with the precious gifts of heaven from the dew and from the deep that couches beneath," 
Deuteronomy33:14 With the precious things of the fruits of the sun and with the precious yield of the months," 
Deuteronomy33:15 With the chief products of the ancient mountains and with the precious things of the everlasting hills," 
Deuteronomy33:16 With the precious things of the earth and its fullness and the favor and goodwill of Him Who dwelt in the bush. Let these blessings come upon the head of Joseph, upon the crown of the head of him who was separate and prince among his brothers. [Exod. 3:4.]" 
Deuteronomy33:17 Like a firstling young bull his majesty is, and his horns like the horns of the wild ox; with them he shall push the peoples, all of them, to the ends of the earth. And they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh." 
Deuteronomy33:18 And of Zebulun he said: Rejoice, Zebulun, in your interests abroad, and you, Issachar, in your tents [at home]." 
Deuteronomy33:19 They shall call the people unto Mount [Carmel]; there they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness, for they shall suck the abundance of the seas and the treasures hid in the sand." 
Deuteronomy33:20 And of Gad he said: Blessed is He Who enlarges Gad! Gad lurks like a lioness, and tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head." 
Deuteronomy33:21 He selected the best land for himself, for there was the leader's portion reserved; yet he came with the chiefs of the nation, and the righteous will of the Lord he performed, and His ordinances with Israel. [Num. 32:29-33.]" 
Deuteronomy33:22 Of Dan he said: Dan is a lion's whelp that leaps forth from Bashan. 
Deuteronomy33:23 Of Naphtali he said: O Naphtali, satisfied with favor and full of the blessing of the Lord, possess the Sea [of Galilee] and [its warm, sunny climate like] the south." 
Deuteronomy33:24 Of Asher he said: Blessed above sons is Asher; let him be acceptable to his brothers, and let him dip his foot in oil." 
Deuteronomy33:25 Your castles and strongholds shall have bars of iron and bronze, and as your day, so shall your strength, your rest and security, be." 
Deuteronomy33:26 There is none like God, O Jeshurun [Israel], Who rides through the heavens to your help and in His majestic glory through the skies." 
Deuteronomy33:27 The eternal God is your refuge and dwelling place, and underneath are the everlasting arms; He drove the enemy before you and thrust them out, saying, Destroy!" 
Deuteronomy33:28 And Israel dwells in safety, the fountain of Jacob alone in a land of grain and new wine; yes, His heavens drop dew." 
Deuteronomy33:29 Happy are you, O Israel, and blessing is yours! Who is like you, a people saved by the Lord, the Shield of your help, the Sword that exalts you! Your enemies shall come fawning and cringing, and submit feigned obedience to you, and you shall march on their high places." 
Deuteronomy34:1 AND MOSES went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is opposite Jericho. And the Lord showed him all the land,from Gilead to Dan," 
Deuteronomy34:2 And all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah to the western [Mediterranean] sea," 
Deuteronomy34:3 And the South (the Negeb) and the plain, that is, the Valley of Jericho, the City of Palm Trees, as far as Zoar." 
Deuteronomy34:4 And the Lord said to him, This is the land which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, I will give it to your descendants. I have let you see it with your eyes, but you shall not go over there." 
Deuteronomy34:5 So Moses the servant of the Lord died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the Lord," 
Deuteronomy34:6 And He buried him in the valley of the land of Moab opposite Beth-peor, but no man knows where his tomb is to this day." 
Deuteronomy34:7 Moses was 120 years old when he died; his eye was not dim nor his natural force abated. [Deut. 31:2.] 
Deuteronomy34:8 And the Israelites wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days; then the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended. 
Deuteronomy34:9 And Joshua son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him; so the Israelites listened to him and did as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:9 And Joshua son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him; so the Israelites listened to him and did as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:10 And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face," 
Deuteronomy34:11 [None equal to him] in all the signs and wonders which the Lord sent him to do in the land of Egypt,to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land," 
Deuteronomy34:12 And in all the mighty power and all the great and terrible deeds which Moses wrought in the sight of all Israel. 
Joshua1:1 AFTER THE death of Moses the servant of the Lord, the Lord said to Joshua son of Nun, Moses' minister, [Deut. 34:4-8.]" 
Joshua1:2 Moses My servant is dead. So now arise [take his place], go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land which I am giving to them, the Israelites." 
Joshua1:3 Every place upon which the sole of your foot shall tread, that have I given to you, as I promised Moses." 
Joshua1:4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon to the great river Euphrates,all the land of the Hittites [Canaan],and to the Great [Mediterranean] Sea on the west shall be your territory. 
Joshua1:5 No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you; I will not fail you or forsake you." 
Joshua1:6 Be strong (confident) and of good courage, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I swore to their fathers to give them." 
Joshua1:7 Only you be strong and very courageous, that you may do according to all the law which Moses My servant commanded you. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may prosper wherever you go." 
Joshua1:8 This Book of the Law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may observe and do according to all that is written in it. For then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall deal wisely and have good success." 
Joshua1:9 Have not I commanded you? Be strong, vigorous, and very courageous. Be not afraid, neither be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go." 
Joshua1:10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying," 
Joshua1:11 Pass through the camp and command the people, Prepare your provisions, for within three days you shall pass over this Jordan to go in to take possession of the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess." 
Joshua1:12 And to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joshua said," 
Joshua1:13 Remember what Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, saying, The Lord your God is giving you [of these two and a half tribes a place of] rest and will give you this land [east of the Jordan]." 
Joshua1:14 Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall dwell in the land which Moses gave you on this side of the Jordan, but all your mighty men of valor shall pass on before your brethren [of the other tribes] armed, and help them [possess their land]" 
Joshua1:15 Until the Lord gives your brethren rest, as He has given you, and they also possess the land the Lord your God is giving them. Then you shall return to the land of your possession and possess it, the land Moses the Lord's servant gave you on the sunrise side of the Jordan." 
Joshua1:16 They answered Joshua, All you command us we will do, and wherever you send us we will go." 
Joshua1:17 As we hearkened to Moses in all things, so will we hearken to you; only may the Lord your God be with you as He was with Moses." 
Joshua1:18 Whoever rebels against your commandment and will not hearken to all you command him shall be put to death. Only be strong, vigorous, and of good courage." 
Joshua2:1 JOSHUA SON of Nun sent two men secretly from Shittim as scouts, saying, Go, view the land, especially Jericho. And they went and came to the house of a harlot named Rahab and lodged there." 
Joshua2:2 It was told the king of Jericho, Behold, there came men in here tonight of the Israelites to search out the country." 
Joshua2:3 And the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men who have come to you, who entered your house, for they have come to search out the land." 
Joshua2:4 But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them. So she said, Yes, two men came to me, but I did not know from where they had come." 
Joshua2:5 And at gate closing time, after dark, the men went out. Where they went I do not know. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them." 
Joshua2:6 But she had brought them up to the roof and hidden them under the stalks of flax which she had laid in order there. 
Joshua2:7 So the men pursued them to the Jordan as far as the fords. As soon as the pursuers had gone, the city's gate was shut." 
Joshua2:8 Before the two men had lain down, Rahab came up to them on the roof," 
Joshua2:9 And she said to the men, I know that the Lord has given you the land and that your terror is fallen upon us and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you." 
Joshua2:10 For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the [east] side of the Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom you utterly destroyed." 
Joshua2:11 When we heard it, our hearts melted, neither did spirit or courage remain any more in any man because of you, for the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and on earth beneath. [Heb. 11:31.]" 
Joshua2:12 Now then, I pray you, swear to me by the Lord, since I have shown you kindness, that you also will show kindness to my father's house, and give me a sure sign," 
Joshua2:13 And save alive my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all they have, and deliver us from death." 
Joshua2:14 And the men said to her, Our lives for yours! If you do not tell this business of ours, then when the Lord gives us the land we will deal kindly and faithfully with you." 
Joshua2:15 Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was built into the [town] wall so that she dwelt in the wall." 
Joshua2:16 And she said to them, Get to the mountain, lest the pursuers meet you; hide yourselves there three days until the pursuers have returned; and afterward you may go your way." 
Joshua2:17 The men said to her, We will be blameless of this oath you have made us swear. [The responsibility is now yours.]" 
Joshua2:18 Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this scarlet cord in the window through which you let us down, and you shall bring your father and mother, your brothers, and all your father's household into your house." 
Joshua2:19 And if anyone goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will be guiltless; but if a hand is laid upon anyone who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head." 
Joshua2:20 But if you tell this business of ours, we shall be guiltless of your oath which you made us swear." 
Joshua2:21 And she said, According to your words, so it is. Then she sent them away and they departed; and she bound the scarlet cord in the window." 
Joshua2:22 They left and went to the mountain and stayed there three days, until the pursuers returned, who had searched all along the way without finding them." 
Joshua2:23 So the two men descended from the mountain, passed over [the Jordan], and came to Joshua son of Nun, and told him all that had befallen them." 
Joshua2:24 They said to Joshua, Truly the Lord has given all the land into our hands; for all the inhabitants of the country are faint because of us." 
Joshua3:1 JOSHUA ROSE early in the morning and they removed from Shittim and came to the Jordan, he and all the Israelites, and lodged there before passing over." 
Joshua3:2 After three days the officers went through the camp," 
Joshua3:3 Commanding the people: When you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God being borne by the Levitical priests, set out from where you are and follow it." 
Joshua3:4 Yet a space must be kept between you and it, about 2,000 cubits by measure; come not near it, that you may [be able to see the ark and] know the way you must go, for you have not passed this way before." 
Joshua3:5 And Joshua said to the people, Sanctify yourselves [that is, separate yourselves for a special holy purpose], for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you." 
Joshua3:6 Joshua said to the priests, Take up the ark of the covenant and pass over before the people. And they took it up and went on before the people." 
Joshua3:7 The Lord said to Joshua, This day I will begin to magnify you in the sight of all Israel, so they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you." 
Joshua3:8 You shall command the priests who bear the ark of the covenant, When you come to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan." 
Joshua3:9 Joshua said to the Israelites, Come near, hear the words of the Lord your God." 
Joshua3:10 Joshua said, Hereby you shall know that the living God is among you and that He will surely drive out from before you the Canaanites, Hittites, Hivites, Perizzites, Girgashites, Amorites, and Jebusites." 
Joshua3:11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is passing over before you into the Jordan!" 
Joshua3:12 So now take twelve men from the tribes of Israel, one from each tribe." 
Joshua3:13 When the soles of the feet of the priests who bear the ark of the Lord of all the earth shall rest in the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan coming down from above shall be cut off and they shall stand in one heap." 
Joshua3:14 So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan, with the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people," 
Joshua3:15 And when those who bore the ark had come to the Jordan and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were in the brink of the water,for the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of harvest, 
Joshua3:16 Then the waters which came down from above stood and rose up in a heap far off, at Adam, the city that is beside Zarethan; and those flowing down toward the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt [Dead] Sea, were wholly cut off. And the people passed over opposite Jericho. [Ps. 114.]" 
Joshua3:17 And while all Israel passed over on dry ground, the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan." 
Joshua4:1 WHEN ALL the nation had fully passed over the Jordan, the Lord said to Joshua," 
Joshua4:2 Take twelve men from among the people, one man out of every tribe," 
Joshua4:3 And command them, Take twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan from the place where the priests' feet stood firm; carry them over with you and leave them at the place where you lodge tonight." 
Joshua4:4 Then Joshua called the twelve men of the Israelites whom he had appointed, a man from each tribe." 
Joshua4:5 And Joshua said to them, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God in the midst of the Jordan, and take up every man of you a stone on his shoulder, as is the number of the tribes of the Israelites," 
Joshua4:6 That this may be a sign among you when your children ask in time to come, What do these stones mean to you?" 
Joshua4:7 Then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord; when it passed over the Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the Israelites a memorial forever." 
Joshua4:8 And the Israelites did as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the Israelites, as the Lord told Joshua, and carried them over with them to the place where they lodged and laid them down there." 
Joshua4:9 And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan in the place where the feet of the priests bearing the ark of the covenant had stood. And they are there to this day. 
Joshua4:10 For the priests who bore the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished that the Lord commanded Joshua to tell the people, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people passed over in haste." 
Joshua4:11 When all the people had passed over, the ark of the Lord and the priests went over in the presence of the people." 
Joshua4:12 And the sons of Reuben, Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh passed over armed before the [other] Israelites, as Moses had bidden them;" 
Joshua4:13 About 40,000 [of these] prepared for war passed over before the Lord to the plains of Jericho for battle." 
Joshua4:14 On that day the Lord magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel; and they stood in awe of him, as they stood in awe of Moses, all the days of his life." 
Joshua4:15 And the Lord said to Joshua," 
Joshua4:16 Order the priests bearing the ark of the Testimony to come up out of the Jordan. 
Joshua4:17 So Joshua commanded the priests, Come up out of the Jordan." 
Joshua4:18 And when the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord had come up out of the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of their feet were lifted up to the dry land, the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and flowed over all its banks as they had before." 
Joshua4:19 And the people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month and encamped in Gilgal on the east border of Jericho. 
Joshua4:20 And those twelve stones which they took out of the Jordan Joshua set up in Gilgal. 
Joshua4:21 And he said to the Israelites, When your children ask their fathers in time to come, What do these stones mean?" 
Joshua4:22 You shall let your children know, Israel came over this Jordan on dry ground." 
Joshua4:23 For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which He dried up for us until we passed over," 
Joshua4:24 That all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty and that you may reverence and fear the Lord your God forever. 
Joshua5:1 WHEN ALL the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan before the Israelites until we had crossed over, their hearts melted and there was no spirit in them any more because of the Israelites." 
Joshua5:2 At that time the Lord said to Joshua, Make knives of flint and circumcise the [new generation of] Israelites as before." 
Joshua5:3 So Joshua made knives of flint and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeath-haaraloth. 
Joshua5:4 And this is the reason Joshua circumcised them: all the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they came out of Egypt." 
Joshua5:5 Though all the people who came out were circumcised, yet all the people who were born in the wilderness on the way after Israel came out of Egypt had not been circumcised." 
Joshua5:6 For the Israelites walked forty years in the wilderness till all who were men of war who came out of Egypt perished, because they did not hearken to the voice of the Lord; to them the Lord swore that He would not let them see the land which the Lord swore to their fathers to give us, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Joshua5:7 So it was their uncircumcised children whom He raised up in their stead whom Joshua circumcised, because the rite had not been performed on the way." 
Joshua5:8 When they finished circumcising all the males of the nation, they remained in their places in the camp till they were healed." 
Joshua5:9 And the Lord said to Joshua, This day have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. So the name of the place is called Gilgal [rolling] to this day." 
Joshua5:10 And the Israelites encamped in Gilgal; and they kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month at evening in the plains of Jericho. 
Joshua5:11 And on that same day they ate the produce of the land: unleavened cakes and parched grain. 
Joshua5:12 And the manna ceased on the day after they ate of the produce of the land; and the Israelites had manna no more, but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year." 
Joshua5:13 When Joshua was by Jericho, he looked up, and behold, a Man stood near him with His drawn sword in His hand. And Joshua went to Him and said to Him, Are you for us or for our adversaries?" 
Joshua5:14 And He said, No [neither], but as Prince of the Lord's host have I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshiped, and said to Him, What says my Lord to His servant?" 
Joshua5:15 And the Prince of the Lord's host said to Joshua, Loose your shoes from off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy. And Joshua did so. [Exod. 3:5.]" 
Joshua6:1 NOW JERICHO [a fenced town with high walls] was tightly closed because of the Israelites; no one went out or came in. 
Joshua6:2 And the Lord said to Joshua, See, I have given Jericho, its king and mighty men of valor, into your hands." 
Joshua6:3 You shall march around the enclosure, all the men of war going around the city once. This you shall do for six days." 
Joshua6:4 And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams' horns; and on the seventh day you shall march around the enclosure seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets." 
Joshua6:5 When they make a long blast with the ram's horn and you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the enclosure shall fall down in its place and the people shall go up [over it], every man straight before him." 
Joshua6:6 So Joshua son of Nun called the priests and said to them, Take up the ark of the covenant and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the Lord." 
Joshua6:7 He said to the people, Go on! March around the enclosure, and let the armed men pass on before the ark of the Lord." 
Joshua6:8 When Joshua had spoken to the people, the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns passed on before the Lord and blew the trumpets, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord followed them." 
Joshua6:9 The armed men went before the priests who blew the trumpets, and the rear guard came after the ark, the priests blowing the trumpets as they went." 
Joshua6:10 But Joshua commanded the people, You shall not shout or let your voice be heard, nor shall any word proceed out of your mouth until the day I tell you to shout. Then you shall shout!" 
Joshua6:11 So he caused the ark of the Lord to go around the city once; and they came into the camp and lodged in the camp. 
Joshua6:12 Joshua rose early in the morning and the priests took up the ark of the Lord. 
Joshua6:13 And the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the Lord passed on, blowing the trumpets continually; and the armed men went before them and the rear guard came after the ark of the Lord, the priests blowing the trumpets as they went." 
Joshua6:14 On the second day they compassed the city enclosure once and returned to the camp. So they did for six days. 
Joshua6:15 On the seventh day they rose early at daybreak and marched around the city as usual, only on that day they compassed the city seven times." 
Joshua6:16 And the seventh time, when the priests had blown the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, Shout! For the Lord has given you the city." 
Joshua6:17 And the city and all that is in it shall be devoted to the Lord [for destruction]; only Rahab the harlot and all who are with her in her house shall live, because she hid the messengers whom we sent." 
Joshua6:18 But you, keep yourselves from the accursed and devoted things, lest when you have devoted it [to destruction], you take of the accursed thing, and so make the camp of Israel accursed and trouble it." 
Joshua6:19 But all the silver and gold and vessels of bronze and iron are consecrated to the Lord; they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. 
Joshua6:20 So the people shouted, and the trumpets were blown. When the people heard the sound of the trumpet, they raised a great shout, and [Jericho's] wall fell down in its place, so that the [Israelites] went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city." 
Joshua6:21 Then they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, ox, sheep, and donkey, with the edge of the sword." 
Joshua6:22 But Joshua said to the two men who had spied out the land, Go into the harlot's house and bring out the woman and all she has, as you swore to her." 
Joshua6:23 So the young men, the spies, went in and brought out Rahab, her father and mother, her brethren, and all that she had; and they brought out all her kindred and set them outside the camp of Israel." 
Joshua6:24 And they burned the city with fire and all that was in it; only the silver, the gold, and the vessels of bronze and of iron they put into the treasury of the house of the Lord." 
Joshua6:25 So Joshua saved Rahab the harlot, with her father's household and all that she had; and she lives in Israel even to this day, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho." 
Joshua6:26 Then Joshua laid this oath on them, Cursed is the man before the Lord who rises up and rebuilds this city, Jericho. With the loss of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and with the loss of his youngest son shall he set up its gates. [I Kings 16:34.]" 
Joshua6:27 So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame was in all the land." 
Joshua7:1 BUT THE Israelites committed a trespass in regard to the devoted things; for Achan son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the things devoted [for destruction]. And the anger of the Lord burned against Israel." 
Joshua7:2 Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth-aven, east of Bethel, and said to them, Go up and spy out the land. So the men went up and spied out Ai." 
Joshua7:3 And they returned to Joshua and said to him, Let not all the men go up; but let about two thousand or three thousand go up and attack Ai; do not make the whole army toil up there, for they of Ai are few." 
Joshua7:4 So about three thousand Israelites went up there, but they fled before the men of Ai." 
Joshua7:5 And the men of Ai killed about thirty-six of them, for they chased them from before the gate as far as Shebarim, and slew them at the descent. And the hearts of the people melted and became as water." 
Joshua7:6 Then Joshua rent his clothes and lay on the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord until evening, he and the elders of Israel; and they put dust on their heads." 
Joshua7:7 Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, why have You brought this people over the Jordan at all only to give us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us? Would that we had been content to dwell beyond the Jordan!" 
Joshua7:8 O Lord, what can I say, now that Israel has turned to flee before their enemies!" 
Joshua7:9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what will You do for Your great name? 
Joshua7:10 The Lord said to Joshua, Get up! Why do you lie thus upon your face?" 
Joshua7:11 Israel has sinned; they have transgressed My covenant which I commanded them. They have taken some of the things devoted [for destruction]; they have stolen, and lied, and put them among their own baggage." 
Joshua7:12 That is why the Israelites could not stand before their enemies, but fled before them; they are accursed and have become devoted [for destruction]. I will cease to be with you unless you destroy the accursed [devoted] things among you." 
Joshua7:13 Up, sanctify (set apart for a holy purpose) the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow; for thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: There are accursed things in the midst of you, O Israel. You can not stand before your enemies until you take away from among you the things devoted [to destruction]." 
Joshua7:14 In the morning therefore, you shall present your tribes. And the tribe which the Lord takes shall come by families; and the family which the Lord takes shall come by households; and the household which the Lord takes shall come by persons." 
Joshua7:15 And he who is taken with the devoted things shall be [killed and his body] burned with fire, he and all he has, because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord and because he has done a shameful and wicked thing in Israel. [Josh. 7:25.]" 
Joshua7:16 So Joshua rose up early in the morning and brought Israel near by their tribes, and the tribe of Judah was taken." 
Joshua7:17 He brought near the family of Judah, and the family of the Zerahites was taken; and he brought near the family of the Zerahites man by man, and Zabdi was taken." 
Joshua7:18 He brought near his household man by man, and Achan son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken." 
Joshua7:19 And Joshua said to Achan, My son, give glory to the Lord, the God of Israel, and make confession to Him. And tell me now what you have done; do not hide it from me." 
Joshua7:20 And Achan answered Joshua, In truth, I have sinned against the Lord, the God of Israel, and this have I done:" 
Joshua7:21 When I saw among the spoils an attractive mantle from Shinar and two hundred shekels of silver and a bar of gold weighing fifty shekels, I coveted them and took them. Behold, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent, with the silver underneath." 
Joshua7:22 So Joshua sent messengers, who ran to the tent, and behold, the spoil was hidden in his tent, with the silver underneath." 
Joshua7:23 And they took them from the tent and brought them to Joshua and all the Israelites and laid them out before the Lord. 
Joshua7:24 And Joshua and all Israel with him took Achan son of Zerah, and the silver, the garment, the wedge of gold, his sons, his daughters, his oxen, his donkeys, his sheep, his tent, and all that he had; and they brought them to the Valley of Achor." 
Joshua7:25 And Joshua said, Why have you brought trouble on us? The Lord will trouble you this day. And all Israel stoned him and those with him with stones, and afterward burned their bodies with fire." 
Joshua7:26 And they raised over him a great heap of stones that remains to this day. Then the Lord turned from the fierceness of His anger. Therefore the name of that place has been called the Valley of Achor or Troubling to this day. 
Joshua8:1 AND THE Lord said to Joshua, Fear not nor be dismayed. Take all the men of war with you, and arise, go up to Ai; see, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, his people, his city, and his land." 
Joshua8:2 And you shall do to Ai and its king as you did to Jericho and its king, except that its spoil and its cattle [this time] you shall take as booty for yourselves. Lay an ambush against the city behind it." 
Joshua8:3 So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up against Ai; [he] chose thirty thousand mighty men of strength and sent them forth by night." 
Joshua8:4 And he commanded them, Behold, you shall lie in wait against the city behind it. Do not go very far from the city, but all of you be ready." 
Joshua8:5 And I and all the people who are with me will approach the city. And when they come out against us, as the first time, we will flee before them" 
Joshua8:6 Till we have drawn them from the city, for they will say, They are fleeing from us as before. So we will flee before them." 
Joshua8:7 Then you shall rise up from the ambush and seize the city, for the Lord your God will deliver it into your hand." 
Joshua8:8 When you have taken the city, you shall set it afire; as the Lord commanded, you shall do. See, I have commanded you." 
Joshua8:9 So Joshua sent them forth, and they went to the place of ambush and remained between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai; but Joshua lodged that night among the people." 
Joshua8:10 Joshua rose up early in the morning and mustered the men, and went up with the elders of Israel before the warriors to Ai." 
Joshua8:11 And all the fighting men who were with him went up and drew near before the city and encamped on the north side of [it], with a ravine between them and Ai." 
Joshua8:12 And he took about five thousand men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, west of the city." 
Joshua8:13 So they stationed all the army,the main encampment that was north of the city and their men in ambush behind and on the west of the city,and Joshua went that night into the midst of the ravine. 
Joshua8:14 When the king [and people] of Ai saw it, they hastily rose early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle [at a time and place appointed] before the Arabah [plain]. But he did not know of the ambush against him behind the city." 
Joshua8:15 And Joshua and all Israel pretended to be beaten by them, and fled toward the wilderness." 
Joshua8:16 So all the people in Ai were called together to pursue them, and they pursued Joshua and were drawn away from the city." 
Joshua8:17 Not a man was left in Ai or Bethel who did not go out after Israel. Leaving the city open, they pursued Israel." 
Joshua8:18 Then the Lord said to Joshua, Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it into your hand. So Joshua stretched out the javelin in his hand toward the city." 
Joshua8:19 The men in the ambush arose quickly out of their place and ran when he stretched out his hand; and they entered the city and took it, and then hastened and set it afire." 
Joshua8:20 When the men of Ai looked back, behold, the smoke of the city went up to the heavens, and they had no power to flee this way or that way. Then the Israelites who fled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers." 
Joshua8:21 When Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city and that the smoke of the city went up, they turned again and slew the men of Ai." 
Joshua8:22 And the others came forth out of the city against them [of Ai], so that they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side and some on that side. And [the Israelites] smote them, so that they let none of them remain or escape." 
Joshua8:23 But they took the king of Ai alive and brought him to Joshua. 
Joshua8:24 When Israel had finished slaying all the inhabitants of Ai in the field and in the wilderness into which they pursued them, and they were all fallen by the sword until they were consumed, then all the Israelites returned to Ai and smote it with the sword." 
Joshua8:25 And all that fell that day, both men and women, were twelve thousand, including all the men of Ai." 
Joshua8:26 For Joshua drew not back his hand with which he stretched out the javelin until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai. 
Joshua8:27 Only the livestock and the spoil of that city Israel took as booty for themselves, according to the word of the Lord which He commanded Joshua." 
Joshua8:28 So Joshua burned Ai and made it a heap of ruins for ever, even a desolation to this day." 
Joshua8:29 And he hanged the king of Ai on a tree until evening; and at sunset, Joshua commanded and they took the body down from the tree and cast it at the entrance of the city gate and raised a great heap of stones over it that is there to this day." 
Joshua8:30 Then Joshua built an altar to the Lord, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal," 
Joshua8:31 As Moses the servant of the Lord commanded the Israelites, as it is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, an altar of unhewn stones, upon which no man has lifted up an iron tool; and they offered on it burnt offerings to the Lord and sacrificed peace offerings." 
Joshua8:32 And there, in the presence of the Israelites, [Joshua] wrote on the stones a copy of the law of Moses." 
Joshua8:33 And all Israel, sojourner as well as he who was born among them, with their elders, officers, and judges, stood on either side of the ark before the Levitical priests who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, half of them in front of Mount Gerizim and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded before that they should bless the Israelites." 
Joshua8:34 Afterward, Joshua read all the words of the law, the blessings and cursings, all that is written in the Book of the Law." 
Joshua8:35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded which Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel, and the women, and little ones, and the foreigners who were living among them." 
Joshua9:1 WHEN ALL the kings beyond the Jordan in the hill country and in the lowland and all along the coast of the Great [Mediterranean] Sea toward Lebanon, the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites heard this," 
Joshua9:2 They gathered together with one accord to fight Joshua and Israel. 
Joshua9:3 But when the people of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai," 
Joshua9:4 They worked cunningly, and went pretending to be ambassadors and took [provisions and] old sacks on their donkeys and wineskins, old, torn, and mended," 
Joshua9:5 And old and patched shoes on their feet and wearing old garments; and all their supply of food was dry and moldy. 
Joshua9:6 And they went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal and said to him and the men of Israel, We have come from a far country; so now, make a covenant with us." 
Joshua9:7 But the men of Israel said to the Hivites, Perhaps you live among us; how then can we make a covenant with you?" 
Joshua9:8 They said to Joshua, We are your servants. And Joshua said to them, Who are you? From where have you come?" 
Joshua9:9 They said to him, From a very far country your servants have come because of the name of the Lord your God. For we have heard the fame of Him, and all that He did in Egypt," 
Joshua9:10 And all that He did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Og king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth." 
Joshua9:11 So our elders and all the residents of our country said to us, Take provisions for the journey and go to meet [the Israelites] and say to them, We are your servants; and now make a covenant with us." 
Joshua9:12 This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we set out to go to you; but now behold, it is dry and has become moldy." 
Joshua9:13 These wineskins (bottles) which we filled were new, and behold, they are torn; and our garments and our shoes have become old because of the very long journey." 
Joshua9:14 So the [Israelite] men partook of their food and did not consult the Lord. 
Joshua9:15 Joshua made peace with them, covenanting with them to let them live, and the assembly's leaders swore to them." 
Joshua9:16 Then three days after they had made a covenant with [the strangers, the Israelites] heard that they were their neighbors and that they dwelt among them." 
Joshua9:17 And the Israelites set out and came to their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath-jearim." 
Joshua9:18 But the Israelites did not slay them, because the leaders of the assembly had sworn to them by the Lord, the God of Israel, [to spare them]. And all the assembly murmured against the leaders." 
Joshua9:19 But all the leaders said to all the assembly, We have sworn to them by the Lord, the God of Israel, so now we may not touch them." 
Joshua9:20 This we will do to them: we will let them live, lest wrath be upon us because of the oath which we swore to them." 
Joshua9:21 And the leaders said to them, Let them live [and be our slaves]. So they became hewers of wood and drawers of water for all the assembly, just as the leaders had said of them." 
Joshua9:22 Joshua called the men and said, Why did you deceive us, saying, We live very far from you, when you dwell among us?" 
Joshua9:23 Now therefore you are cursed, and of you there shall always be slaves, hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God." 
Joshua9:24 They answered Joshua, Because it was surely told your servants that the Lord your God commanded His servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the land's inhabitants from before you. So we feared greatly for our lives because of you, and have done this thing." 
Joshua9:25 And now, behold, we are in your hand; do as it seems good and right in your sight to do to us." 
Joshua9:26 So he did to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the Israelites, so that they did not kill them." 
Joshua9:27 But Joshua then made them hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation and for the altar of the Lord, to this day, in the place which He should choose." 
Joshua10:1 WHEN ADONI-ZEDEK king of Jerusalem heard how Joshua had taken Ai and had utterly destroyed it, doing to Jericho and its king as he had done to Ai and its king, and how the residents of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them," 
Joshua10:2 He feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty." 
Joshua10:3 So Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem sent to Hoham king of Hebron, to Piram king of Jarmuth, to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying," 
Joshua10:4 Come up to me and help me, and let us smite Gibeon, for it has made peace with Joshua and with the Israelites." 
Joshua10:5 Then the five kings of the Amorites,the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon,gathered their forces and went up with all their armies and encamped before Gibeon to fight against it." 
Joshua10:6 And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, Do not relax your hand from your servants; come up to us quickly and save us and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the hill country are gathered against us." 
Joshua10:7 So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the warriors with him and all the mighty men of valor." 
Joshua10:8 And the Lord said to Joshua, Do not fear them, for I have given them into your hand; there shall not a man of them stand before you." 
Joshua10:9 So Joshua came upon them suddenly, having gone up from Gilgal all night." 
Joshua10:10 And the Lord caused [the enemies] to panic before Israel, who slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon and chased them along the way that goes up to Beth-horon and smote them as far as Azekah and Makkedah." 
Joshua10:11 As they fled before Israel, while they were descending [the pass] to Beth-horon, the Lord cast great stones from the heavens on them as far as Azekah, killing them. More died because of the hailstones than the Israelites slew with the sword." 
Joshua10:12 Then Joshua spoke to the Lord on the day when the Lord gave the Amorites over to the Israelites, and he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, be silent and stand still at Gibeon, and you, moon, in the Valley of Ajalon!" 
Joshua10:13 And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the nation took vengeance upon their enemies. Is not this written in the Book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst of the heavens and did not hasten to go down for about a whole day." 
Joshua10:14 There was no day like it before or since, when the Lord heeded the voice of a man. For the Lord fought for Israel." 
Joshua10:15 Then Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal." 
Joshua10:16 Those five kings fled and hid themselves in the cave of Makkedah. 
Joshua10:17 And it was told Joshua, The five kings are hidden in the cave at Makkedah." 
Joshua10:18 Joshua said, Roll great stones to the cave's mouth, and set men to guard them." 
Joshua10:19 But do not stay. Pursue your enemies and fall upon their rear; do not allow them to enter their cities, for the Lord your God has given them into your hand." 
Joshua10:20 When Joshua and the Israelites had ended slaying them until they were wiped out and the remnant remaining of them had entered into fortified cities," 
Joshua10:21 All the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace; none moved his tongue against any of the Israelites. 
Joshua10:22 Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave and bring out those five kings to me from the cave." 
Joshua10:23 They brought the five kings out of the cave to him,the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon." 
Joshua10:24 When they brought out those kings to Joshua, [he] called for all the Israelites and told the commanders of the men of war who went with him, Come, put your feet on the necks of these kings. And they came and put their feet on the [kings'] necks." 
Joshua10:25 Joshua said to them, Fear not nor be dismayed; be strong and of good courage. For thus shall the Lord do to all your enemies against whom you fight." 
Joshua10:26 Afterward Joshua smote and slew them and hanged their bodies on five trees, and they hung on the trees until evening." 
Joshua10:27 At sunset Joshua ordered and they took the bodies down from the trees and cast them into the cave where the kings had hidden and laid great stones on the cave's mouth, which remain to this very day." 
Joshua10:28 Joshua took Makkedah that day and smote it and its king with the sword and utterly destroyed everyone in it. He left none remaining. And he did to the king of Makkedah as he had done to the king of Jericho. [Josh. 6:21.] 
Joshua10:29 Then Joshua and all Israel went from Makkedah to Libnah and attacked Libnah. 
Joshua10:30 And the Lord gave it also and its king into Israel's hands, and Joshua smote it with the sword, and all the people in it. He left none remaining in it. And he did to its king as he had done to the king of Jericho." 
Joshua10:31 And Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish and encamped against it and attacked it." 
Joshua10:32 And the Lord delivered Lachish into the hands of Israel, and Joshua took it on the second day and smote it with the sword, and all the people in it, as he had done to Libnah." 
Joshua10:33 Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish, and Joshua smote him and his people,until he had left none remaining." 
Joshua10:34 From Lachish Joshua and all Israel went on to Eglon, laid siege to it, and attacked it." 
Joshua10:35 And they took it that day and smote it with the sword and utterly destroyed all who were in it that day, as he had done to Lachish." 
Joshua10:36 Then Joshua with all Israel went up from Eglon to Hebron, and they attacked it" 
Joshua10:37 And took it and smote it with the sword, and its king and all its towns and everyone in it. He left none remaining, as he had done to Eglon, and utterly destroyed it and all its people." 
Joshua10:38 And Joshua and all Israel with him returned to Debir and attacked it. 
Joshua10:39 And he took it, with its king and all its towns, and they smote them with the sword and utterly destroyed everyone in it. He left none remaining. As he had done to Hebron and to Libnah and its king, so he did to Debir and its king." 
Joshua10:40 So Joshua smote all the land, the hill country, the South, the lowland, and the slopes, and all their kings. He left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the Lord, the God of Israel, commanded. [Deut. 20:16.]" 
Joshua10:41 And Joshua smote them from Kadesh-barnea even to Gaza, and all the country of Goshen even to Gibeon." 
Joshua10:42 Joshua took all these kings and their land at one time, because the Lord, the God of Israel, fought for Israel." 
Joshua10:43 And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal." 
Joshua11:1 WHEN JABIN king of Hazor heard of this, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the kings of Shimron and Achshaph," 
Joshua11:1 WHEN JABIN king of Hazor heard of this, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the kings of Shimron and Achshaph," 
Joshua11:2 And to the kings who were in the north in the hill country and in the Arabah south of Chinneroth and in the lowland and in the heights of Dor on the west; 
Joshua11:3 To the Canaanites in the east and west; to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites in the hill country; and to the Hivites below [Mount] Hermon in the land of Mizpah." 
Joshua11:4 And they went out with all their hosts, much people, like the sand on the seashore in number, with very many horses and chariots." 
Joshua11:5 And all these kings met and came and encamped together at the Waters of Merom, to fight against Israel." 
Joshua11:6 But the Lord said to Joshua, Do not be afraid because of them, for tomorrow by this time I will give them up all slain to Israel; you shall hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire." 
Joshua11:7 So Joshua and all the people of war with him came against them suddenly by the Waters of Merom and fell upon them. 
Joshua11:8 And the Lord gave them into the hand of Israel, who smote them and chased them [toward] populous Sidon and Misrephoth-maim, and eastward as far as the Valley of Mizpah; they smote them until none remained." 
Joshua11:9 And Joshua did to them as the Lord had commanded him: he hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots with fire. 
Joshua11:10 And Joshua at that time turned back and took Hazor and smote its king with the sword; for Hazor previously was the head of all those kingdoms. 
Joshua11:11 They smote all the people in it with the sword, utterly destroying them; none were left alive, and he burned Hazor with fire." 
Joshua11:12 And Joshua took all the cities of those kings and all the kings and smote them with the sword, utterly destroying them, as Moses the servant of the Lord commanded. [Deut. 20:16.]" 
Joshua11:13 But Israel burned none of the cities that stood [fortified] on their mounds,except Hazor only, which Joshua burned." 
Joshua11:14 And all the spoil of these cities and the livestock the Israelites took for their booty; but every man they smote with the sword until they had destroyed them, and they left none who breathed." 
Joshua11:15 As the Lord had commanded Moses His servant, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did; he left nothing undone of all that the Lord commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:16 So Joshua took all that land: the hill country, all the South, all the land of Goshen, the lowland, the Arabah [plain], the hill country of Israel and its lowland," 
Joshua11:17 From Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir, as far as Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon below Mount Hermon. He captured all their kings and slew them." 
Joshua11:18 Joshua had waged war a long time [at least five years] with all those kings. 
Joshua11:19 Not a city made peace with the Israelites except the Hivites, the people of Gibeon; all the others they took in battle." 
Joshua11:20 For it was of the Lord to harden their hearts that they should come against Israel in battle, that [Israel] might destroy them utterly, and that without favor and mercy, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:21 Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim [large in stature] from the hill country: from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah and the hill country of Israel. Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities." 
Joshua11:22 None of the Anakim were left in the land of the Israelites; only in Gaza, Gath, and Ashdod [of Philistia] did some remain." 
Joshua11:23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the Lord had spoken to Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their allotments by tribes. And the land had rest from war." 
Joshua12:1 NOW THESE are the kings of the land whom the Israelites defeated and whose land they took possession of east of the Jordan, from the river Arnon to Mount Hermon, and all the Arabah eastward:" 
Joshua12:2 Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and ruled from Aroer on the edge of the Valley of the [river] Arnon, and from the middle of the valley as far as the river Jabbok, the boundary of the Ammonites, including half of Gilead;" 
Joshua12:3 And the Arabah to the Sea of Chinneroth eastward, and in the direction of Beth-jeshimoth, to the Sea of the Arabah, the Salt [or Dead] Sea, southward to the foot of the slopes of Pisgah." 
Joshua12:4 And Og king of Bashan, one of the remnant of the Rephaim, who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei," 
Joshua12:5 And ruled over Mount Hermon and Salecah and all of Bashan to the boundary of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and over half of Gilead to the boundary of Sihon king of Heshbon." 
Joshua12:6 These Moses the servant of the Lord and the Israelites defeated; and Moses the servant of the Lord gave their land for a possession to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. [Num. 21; 32:33; Deut. 2; 3.]" 
Joshua12:7 These are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the Israelites defeated on the west side of the Jordan, from Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir. Joshua gave their land to the tribes of Israel for a possession according to their allotments," 
Joshua12:8 In the hill country, in the lowland, in the Arabah, on the slopes, in the wilderness, and in the Negeb,the lands of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites:" 
Joshua12:9 The king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;" 
Joshua12:10 The king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one;" 
Joshua12:11 The king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;" 
Joshua12:12 The king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;" 
Joshua12:13 The king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;" 
Joshua12:14 The king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;" 
Joshua12:15 The king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;" 
Joshua12:16 The king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one;" 
Joshua12:17 The king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;" 
Joshua12:18 The king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one;" 
Joshua12:19 The king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;" 
Joshua12:20 The king of Shimron-meron, one; the king of Achshaph, one;" 
Joshua12:21 The king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one;" 
Joshua12:22 The king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam in Carmel, one;" 
Joshua12:23 The king of Dor in the heights of Dor, one; the king of Goiim in Gilgal, one;" 
Joshua12:24 The king of Tirzah, one. In all, thirty-one kings." 
Joshua13:1 NOW JOSHUA was old and gone far in years [over 100], and the Lord said to him, You have grown old and are gone far in years, and very much of the land still remains to be possessed." 
Joshua13:2 This is the land that remains: all the regions of the Philistines and all those of the Geshurites: 
Joshua13:3 From the Shihor [River] which is east of Egypt, northward to the boundary of Ekron, all of it counted as Canaanite; there are five rulers of the Philistines, those of Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath, and Ekron, and those of the Avvites;" 
Joshua13:4 In the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah, which belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the boundary of the Amorites," 
Joshua13:5 And the land of the Gebalites; and all Lebanon toward the east, from Baal-gad below Mount Hermon to the gate of Hamath." 
Joshua13:6 As for all the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon to Misrephoth-maim, even all the Sidonians, I will Myself drive them out from before the Israelites; only allot the land to Israel for an inheritance, as I have commanded you." 
Joshua13:7 So now divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half-tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua13:8 With the other half-tribe of Manasseh, the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of the Lord gave them:" 
Joshua13:9 From Aroer on the edge of the Valley of the [river] Arnon, and the city in the midst of the valley, and all the tableland of Medeba as far as Dibon;" 
Joshua13:10 And all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon, as far as the boundary of the Ammonites;" 
Joshua13:11 And Gilead, and the region of the Geshurites and Maacathites, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salecah," 
Joshua13:12 All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and Edrei and alone was left of the Rephaim [giants]; for these Moses had defeated and driven out." 
Joshua13:13 Yet the Israelites did not drive out the Geshurites or the Maacathites, but Geshur and Maacath dwell among [them] still." 
Joshua13:14 Only to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance; the sacrifices made by fire to the Lord, the God of Israel, are their inheritance, as He said to him." 
Joshua13:15 And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the Reubenites according to their families: 
Joshua13:16 Their territory was from Aroer on the edge of the Valley of the [river] Arnon, and the city in the midst of the valley, and all the tableland by Medeba;" 
Joshua13:17 With Heshbon and all its cities which are on the plain; Dibon, Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baal-meon," 
Joshua13:18 Jahaz, Kedemoth, Mephaath," 
Joshua13:19 Kiriathaim, Sibmah, and Zereth-shahar on the hill of the valley," 
Joshua13:20 Beth-peor, Pisgah's slopes, and Beth-jeshimoth," 
Joshua13:21 All the cities of the plain and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon, whom Moses defeated along with the leaders of Midian, Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba, the princes of Sihon who lived in the land." 
Joshua13:22 Balaam son of Beor, the soothsayer, the Israelites also killed with the sword among the rest of their slain. [Num. 31:16.]" 
Joshua13:23 And the border of the Reubenites was the Jordan. This was the inheritance of the Reubenites according to their families, with their cities and villages." 
Joshua13:24 Moses gave an inheritance also to the tribe of the Gadites according to their families. 
Joshua13:25 Their territory was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the Ammonites as far as Aroer east of Rabbah;" 
Joshua13:26 And from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the territory of Debir;" 
Joshua13:27 And in the valley, Beth-haram, Beth-nimrah, Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the realm of Sihon king of Heshbon, with the Jordan as a boundary, to the lower end of the Sea of Chinnereth east of the Jordan." 
Joshua13:28 This is the inheritance of the Gadites according to their families, with their cities and villages." 
Joshua13:29 And Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh; it was allotted to them according to their families. 
Joshua13:30 Their region extended from Mahanaim through all Bashan, the entire kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities," 
Joshua13:31 And half of Gilead, and Ashtaroth and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan; these were allotted to the people of Machir son of Manasseh for half of the Machirites according to their families." 
Joshua13:32 These are the inheritances which Moses distributed in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan east of Jericho. 
Joshua13:33 But to the tribe of Levi, Moses gave no inheritance; the Lord, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as He told them." 
Joshua14:1 THESE ARE the inheritances in the land of Canaan distributed to the Israelites by Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers' houses of their tribes." 
Joshua14:2 Their inheritance was by lot, as the Lord commanded Moses, for the nine and one-half tribes." 
Joshua14:3 For Moses had given an inheritance to the two and one-half tribes beyond the Jordan, but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them," 
Joshua14:4 For the people of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. And no part was given in the land to the Levites except cities in which to live, with their pasturelands for their livestock and for their possessions." 
Joshua14:5 As the Lord commanded Moses, so the Israelites did, and they divided the land." 
Joshua14:6 Then the people of Judah came to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, You know what the Lord said to Moses the man of God concerning me and you in Kadesh-barnea." 
Joshua14:7 Forty years old was I when Moses the servant of the Lord sent me from Kadesh-barnea to scout out the land. And I brought him a report as it was in my heart. 
Joshua14:8 But my brethren who went up with me made the hearts of the people melt; yet I wholly followed the Lord my God. 
Joshua14:9 And Moses swore on that day, Surely the land on which your feet have walked shall be an inheritance to you and your children always, because you have wholly followed the Lord my God. [Deut. 1:35, 36.]" 
Joshua14:10 And now, behold, the Lord has kept me alive, as He said, these forty-five years since the Lord spoke this word to Moses, while the Israelites wandered in the wilderness; and now, behold, I am this day eighty-five years old." 
Joshua14:11 Yet I am as strong today as I was the day Moses sent me; as my strength was then, so is my strength now for war and to go out and to come in." 
Joshua14:12 So now give me this hill country of which the Lord spoke that day. For you heard then how the [giantlike] Anakim were there and that the cities were great and fortified; if the Lord will be with me, I shall drive them out just as the Lord said." 
Joshua14:13 Then Joshua blessed him and gave Hebron to Caleb son of Jephunneh for an inheritance. 
Joshua14:14 So Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day, because he wholly followed the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Joshua14:15 The name of Hebron before was Kiriath-arba [city of Arba]. This Arba was the greatest of the Anakim. And the land had rest from war. 
Joshua15:1 THE LOT for the tribe of Judah according to its families reached southward to the boundary of Edom, to the Wilderness of Zin at its most southern part." 
Joshua15:2 And their south boundary was from the end of the Salt [Dead] Sea, from the bay that faces southward;" 
Joshua15:3 It went out south of the ascent of Akrabbim, passed along to Zin, and went up south of Kadesh-barnea, along by Hezron, up to Addar, and turned about to Karka," 
Joshua15:4 Passed along to Azmon, went out by the Brook of Egypt, and ended at the sea. This was their southern frontier." 
Joshua15:5 The eastern boundary was the Salt [Dead] Sea as far as the mouth of the Jordan. The northern boundary was from the bay of the sea at the mouth of the Jordan; 
Joshua15:6 And the boundary went up to Beth-hogla and passed along north of Beth-arabah and [it] went up to the [landmark] Stone of Bohan son of Reuben. 
Joshua15:7 And the boundary went up to Debir from the Valley of Achor, and so northward, turning toward Gilgal, which is opposite the ascent to Adummim on the south side of the valley; and it passed on to the waters of En-shemesh and ended at En-rogel." 
Joshua15:8 Then the boundary went up by the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom] at the southern shoulder of the Jebusite [city],that is, Jerusalem; and the boundary went up to the top of the mountain that lies before the Valley of Hinnom on the west, at the northern end of the Valley of Rephaim." 
Joshua15:9 Then the boundary extended from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah and went on to the cities of Mount Ephron; then it bent round to Baalah, that is, Kiriath-jearim." 
Joshua15:10 And the boundary went around west of Baalah to Mount Seir, passed along to the northern side of Mount Jearim, which is Chesalon, went down to Beth-shemesh, and then passed on by Timnah." 
Joshua15:11 And the boundary went out to the shoulder of the hill north of Ekron, then bent round to Shikkeron, and passed along to Mount Baalah, and went out to Jabneel. Then the boundary ended at the sea." 
Joshua15:12 And the west boundary was the Great Sea with its coastline. This is the boundary round about the people of Judah according to their families. 
Joshua15:13 And to Caleb son of Jephunneh, [Joshua] gave a part among the people of Judah, as the Lord commanded [him]; it was Kiriath-arba, which is Hebron, [named for] Arba the father of Anak." 
Joshua15:14 And Caleb drove from there the three sons of Anak,Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai,the descendants of Anak. 
Joshua15:15 He went up from there against the people of Debir. Debir was formerly named Kiriath-sepher. 
Joshua15:16 Caleb said, He who smites Kiriath-sepher and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife." 
Joshua15:17 And Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb's brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife." 
Joshua15:18 When Achsah came to Othniel, she got his consent to ask her father for a field. Then she returned to Caleb and when she lighted off her donkey, Caleb said, What do you wish?" 
Joshua15:19 Achsah answered, Give me a present. Since you have set me in the [dry] Negeb, give me also springs of water. And he gave her the [sloping field with] upper and lower springs." 
Joshua15:20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of Judah according to their families. 
Joshua15:21 The cities of the tribe of Judah in the extreme south toward the boundary of Edom were: Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur," 
Joshua15:22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah," 
Joshua15:23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan," 
Joshua15:24 Ziph, Telem, Bealoth," 
Joshua15:25 Hazor-hadattah, Kerioth-hezron (Hazor)," 
Joshua15:26 Amam, Shema, Moladah," 
Joshua15:27 Hazar-gaddah, Heshmon, Beth-pelet," 
Joshua15:28 Hazar-shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah," 
Joshua15:29 Baalah, Iim, Ezem," 
Joshua15:30 Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah," 
Joshua15:31 Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah," 
Joshua15:32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon. All the cities were twenty-nine [later thirty-six] with their villages." 
Joshua15:33 In the lowland: Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah," 
Joshua15:34 Zanoah, En-gannim, Tappuah, Enam," 
Joshua15:35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah," 
Joshua15:36 Shaaraim, Adithaim, and Gederah and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:37 Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal-gad," 
Joshua15:38 Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel," 
Joshua15:39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon," 
Joshua15:40 Cabbon, Lahmas, Chitlish," 
Joshua15:41 Gederoth, Beth-dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:42 Libnah, Ether, Ashan," 
Joshua15:43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib," 
Joshua15:44 Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:45 Ekron, with its towns and villages." 
Joshua15:46 From Ekron to the sea, all that lay beside Ashdod, with their villages;" 
Joshua15:47 Ashdod, with its towns and its villages; Gaza, with its towns and its villages, as far as the Brook of Egypt, and the Great [Mediterranean] Sea with its coastline." 
Joshua15:48 In the hill country: Shamir, Jattir, Socoh," 
Joshua15:49 Dannah, Kiriath-sannah (that is, Debir)," 
Joshua15:50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim," 
Joshua15:51 Goshen, Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:52 Arab, Dumah, Eshan," 
Joshua15:53 Janim, Beth-tappuah, Aphekah," 
Joshua15:54 Humtah, Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron), and Zior; nine cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:55 Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah," 
Joshua15:56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah," 
Joshua15:57 Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:58 Halhul, Beth-zur, Gedor," 
Joshua15:59 Maarath, Beth-anoth, and Eltekon; six cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:60 Kiriath-baal (that is, Kiriath-jearim) and Rabbah; two cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:61 In the wilderness: Beth-arabah, Middin, Secacah," 
Joshua15:62 Nibshan, the City of Salt, and En-gedi; six cities with their villages." 
Joshua15:63 But the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the people of Judah could not drive out; so the Jebusites dwell with the people of Judah at Jerusalem to this day." 
Joshua16:1 THE ALLOTMENT for the people of Joseph went from the Jordan by Jericho, east of the waters of Jericho, into the wilderness, going up from Jericho into the hill country to Bethel;" 
Joshua16:2 Then it went from Bethel to Luz and passed on to Ataroth, the border of the Archites." 
Joshua16:3 And it went down westward to the territory of the Japhletites as far as the outskirts of Lower Beth-horon, then to Gezer, and ended at the sea." 
Joshua16:4 The descendants of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, received their inheritance." 
Joshua16:5 The boundary of the Ephraimites according to their families was thus: on the east side their border was Ataroth-addar as far as Upper Beth-horon. 
Joshua16:6 Then the boundary went from there to the sea; on the north was Michmethath; then on the east the boundary went out to Taanath-shiloh, and eastward to Janoah," 
Joshua16:7 Then it went down from Janoah to Ataroth and to Naarah, touched Jericho, and ended at the Jordan [River]." 
Joshua16:8 The border went out from Tappuah westward to the brook Kanah and ended at the [Mediterranean] Sea. This is the inheritance of the Ephraimites by their families," 
Joshua16:9 With the towns set apart for the Ephraimites within the inheritance of the Manassites, all those towns with their villages." 
Joshua16:10 But they did not drive out the Canaanites who dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwell among the Ephraimites to this day, and they became slaves required to do forced labor." 
Joshua17:1 ALLOTMENT WAS made for the tribe of Manasseh, for he was the firstborn of Joseph. To Machir the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, were allotted Gilead and Bashan because he was a man of war." 
Joshua17:2 Allotment was also made for the other Manassites by their families,for the sons of Abiezer, of Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher, and Shemida, the male offspring of Manasseh son of Joseph by their families." 
Joshua17:3 But Zelophehad son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons but only daughters; their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah." 
Joshua17:4 They came before Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the leaders and said, The Lord commanded Moses to give us an inheritance with our brethren. So according to the Lord's command, Joshua gave them an inheritance among their father's brethren." 
Joshua17:5 So there fell ten portions to Manasseh besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is on the other side of the Jordan," 
Joshua17:6 Because the [five] daughters of Manasseh received an inheritance among his [five] sons. The land of Gilead belonged to the other [half] of the Manassites. 
Joshua17:7 The territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Michmethah east of Shechem; and the border went along southward to the inhabitants of En-tappuah. 
Joshua17:8 The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but the town of Tappuah on the border of Manasseh belonged to the Ephraimites." 
Joshua17:9 Then the boundary went down to the brook Kanah. The cities south of the brook lying among the cities of Manasseh belonged to Ephraim. But Manasseh's boundary went on north of the brook and ended at the sea. 
Joshua17:10 The land to the south was Ephraim's and that to the north was Manasseh's, and the sea was the boundary; on the north Asher was reached, and on the east Issachar." 
Joshua17:11 Also Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher [these six towns], their inhabitants and their villages: Beth-shean, Ibleam, Dor, Endor, Taanach, and Megiddo." 
Joshua17:12 Yet the sons of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitants of those cities, but the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land." 
Joshua17:13 When the Israelites became strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor but did not utterly drive them out." 
Joshua17:14 The tribe of Joseph spoke to Joshua, saying, Why have you given [us] but one lot and one portion as an inheritance when [we] are a great [abundant] people, for until now the Lord has blessed [us]?" 
Joshua17:15 Joshua replied, If you are a great people, get up to the forest and clear ground for yourselves in the land of the Perizzites and the Rephaim, since the Ephraim hill country is too narrow for you." 
Joshua17:16 The Josephites said, The hill country is not enough for us, and all the Canaanites who dwell in the valley have iron chariots, both those in Beth-shean and its villages and in the Valley of Jezreel." 
Joshua17:17 And Joshua said to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and to Manasseh, You are a great and numerous people and have great power; you shall not have only one lot" 
Joshua17:18 But the hill country shall be yours; though it is a forest, you shall clear and possess it to its farthest borders; for you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have iron chariots and are strong." 
Joshua18:1 AND THE whole congregation of the Israelites assembled at Shiloh and set up the Tent of Meeting there; and the land was subdued before them. 
Joshua18:2 And there remained among the Israelites seven tribes who had not yet divided their inheritance. 
Joshua18:3 Joshua asked the Israelites, How long will you be slack to go in and possess the land which the Lord, the God of your fathers, has given you?" 
Joshua18:4 Provide three men from each tribe, and I will send them to go through the land and write a description of it according to their [tribal] inheritances; then they shall return to me." 
Joshua18:5 And they shall divide it into seven parts. Judah shall remain in its territory on the south and the house of Joseph shall remain in its territory on the north. 
Joshua18:6 You shall describe the land in seven divisions, and bring the description here to me, that I may cast lots for you here before the Lord our God." 
Joshua18:7 But the Levites have no portion among you, for the priesthood of the Lord is their inheritance. Gad and Reuben and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance east of the Jordan, which Moses the servant of the Lord gave them." 
Joshua18:8 So the men arose and went, and Joshua charged them saying, Go and walk through the land and describe it and come again to me, and I will cast lots for you here before the Lord in Shiloh." 
Joshua18:9 And the men went and passed through the land and described it by cities in seven portions in a book; and they came again to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh. 
Joshua18:10 Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the Lord, and there [he] divided the land to the Israelites, to each [tribe] his portion." 
Joshua18:11 And the lot of the Benjamites came up according to their families; and the territory of their lot fell between the tribes of Judah and Joseph. 
Joshua18:12 On the north side their boundary began at the Jordan; then it went up to the shoulder of Jericho on the north and up through the hill country westward and ended at the Beth-aven wilderness. 
Joshua18:13 Then the boundary passed over southward toward Luz, to the shoulder of Luz (that is, Bethel); then it went down to Ataroth-addar by the mountain that lies south of Lower Beth-horon." 
Joshua18:14 The boundary extended from there, and turning about on the western side southward from the mountain that lies to the south opposite Beth-horon, it ended at Kiriath-baal (that is, Kiriath-jearim), a city of the tribe of Judah. This formed the western side [of Benjamin's territory]." 
Joshua18:15 The southern side began at the edge of Kiriath-jearim, and the boundary went on westward to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah." 
Joshua18:16 Then the boundary went down to the edge of the mountain overlooking the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], which is at the north end of the Valley of Rephaim; and it descended to the Valley of Hinnom, south of the shoulder of the Jebusites, and went on down to En-rogel." 
Joshua18:17 Then it bent toward the north and went on to En-shemesh and on to Geliloth, which was opposite the ascent of Adummim, and went down to the Stone of Bohan son of Reuben." 
Joshua18:18 And it went on to the north of the shoulder [of Beth]-Arabah and down to the Arabah. 
Joshua18:19 Then the boundary passed along to the north of the shoulder of Beth-hoglah and ended at the northern bay of the Salt [Dead] Sea, at the south end of the Jordan. This was the southern border." 
Joshua18:20 And the Jordan was its boundary on the east side. This was the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin by their boundaries round about, according to their families." 
Joshua18:21 Now the cities of the tribe of Benjamin according to [their] families were: Jericho, Beth-hoglah, Emek-keziz," 
Joshua18:22 Beth-arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel," 
Joshua18:23 Avvim, Parah, Ophrah," 
Joshua18:24 Chephar-ammoni, Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities with their villages;" 
Joshua18:25 Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth," 
Joshua18:26 Mizpah, Chephirah, Mozah," 
Joshua18:27 Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah," 
Joshua18:28 Zelah, Haeleph, the Jebusite [city],that is, Jerusalem,Gibeah, and Kiriath-[jearim]; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the tribe of Benjamin according to their families." 
Joshua19:1 THE SECOND lot fell to Simeon, to the tribe of the Simeonites according to their families; and their inheritance lay within that of the people of Judah." 
Joshua19:2 And they had for their inheritance: Beersheba or Sheba, Moladah," 
Joshua19:3 Hazarshual, Balah, Ezem," 
Joshua19:4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah," 
Joshua19:5 Ziklag, Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susah," 
Joshua19:6 Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen; [making] thirteen cities and their villages;" 
Joshua19:7 Ain [with] Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan; [making] four cities and their villages;" 
Joshua19:8 And all the villages around these cities as far as Baalath-beer, or Ramah of the Negeb. This was the possession of the Simeonites according to their families." 
Joshua19:9 Out of the part assigned to the Judahites was the inheritance of the tribe of Simeon, for the portion of the tribe of Judah was too large for them. Therefore the tribe of Simeon had its inheritance in the midst of Judah's inheritance." 
Joshua19:10 The third lot came up for the tribe of Zebulun according to their families. The border of its inheritance extended to Sarid. 
Joshua19:11 Then its boundary went up westward and on to Maralah and reached to Dabbesheth and to the brook east of Jokneam. 
Joshua19:12 And it turned from Sarid eastward to the border of Chisloth-tabor and it went out to Daberath and on up to Japhia," 
Joshua19:13 Then passed eastward to Gath-hepher [Jonah's birthplace] and to Eth-kazin, and went on to Rimmon bending toward Neah." 
Joshua19:13 Then passed eastward to Gath-hepher [Jonah's birthplace] and to Eth-kazin, and went on to Rimmon bending toward Neah." 
Joshua19:14 The boundary circled on the north to Hannathon, ending at the Valley of Iphtah-el." 
Joshua19:15 Included were Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem; twelve cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:16 This is the inheritance of the people of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:17 The fourth lot fell to Issachar, to its people according to their families." 
Joshua19:18 Their territory included: Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem," 
Joshua19:19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath," 
Joshua19:20 Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez," 
Joshua19:21 Remeth, En-gannim, En-haddah, and Beth-pazzez." 
Joshua19:22 The boundary reached to Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth-shemesh, and ended at the Jordan; sixteen cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages." 
Joshua19:24 The fifth lot fell to the tribe of Asher according to their families. 
Joshua19:25 Their territory included: Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph," 
Joshua19:26 Allammelech, Amad, and Mishal; and on the west it touched Carmel and Shihor-libnath." 
Joshua19:27 Then it turned eastward to Beth-dagon, touching Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtah-el northward to Beth-emek and Neiel, and continued in the north to Cabul," 
Joshua19:28 Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, even to populous Sidon." 
Joshua19:29 Then the boundary turned to Ramah, reaching to the fortified city of Tyre; and it turned to Hosah, and ended at the sea,Mahalab, Achzib," 
Joshua19:30 Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob; twenty-two cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:32 The sixth lot fell to the tribe of Naphtali according to their families. 
Joshua19:33 Their boundary ran from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim and Adami-nekeb and Jabneel as far as Lakkum; and it ended at the Jordan." 
Joshua19:34 Then the boundary turned westward to Aznoth-tabor and went from there to Hukkok, touching Zebulun on the south, Asher on the west, and Judah on the east at the Jordan." 
Joshua19:35 The fortified cities included Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth," 
Joshua19:36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor," 
Joshua19:37 Kedesh, Edrei, En-hazor," 
Joshua19:38 Yiron, Migdal-el, Horem, Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh; nineteen cities and their villages." 
Joshua19:39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of Naphtali according to their families, the cities and their villages." 
Joshua19:40 And the seventh lot fell to the tribe of Dan according to their families. 
Joshua19:41 The territory of their inheritance included: Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-shemesh," 
Joshua19:42 Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah," 
Joshua19:43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron," 
Joshua19:44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath," 
Joshua19:45 Jehud, Bene-berak, Gath-rimmon," 
Joshua19:46 Me-jarkon, and Rakkon, with the territory before Joppa." 
Joshua19:47 The territory of the tribe of Dan had to be extended [because of the crowding in of the Amorites and Philistines]; so the sons of Dan went up to fight against Leshem (Laish) and took it and smote it with the sword and possessed it and dwelt there, and they called Leshem (Laish) Dan after Dan their [forefather]. [Judg. 1:34; 18:7-10, 27.]" 
Joshua19:48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages." 
Joshua19:49 When they had finished dividing the land for inheritance by their boundaries, the Israelites gave an inheritance among them to Joshua son of Nun." 
Joshua19:50 According to the word of the Lord they gave him the city for which he asked,Timnath-serah in the hills of Ephraim. And he built the city and dwelt in it. 
Joshua19:51 These are the inheritances which Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of Israel distributed by lot in Shiloh before the Lord at the door of the Tent of Meeting. So they finished dividing the land." 
Joshua20:1 THE LORD said also to Joshua," 
Joshua20:2 Say to the Israelites, Appoint among you cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you through Moses," 
Joshua20:3 That the slayer who kills anyone accidentally and unintentionally may flee there; and they shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood. [Num. 35:10ff.] 
Joshua20:4 He who flees to one of those cities shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city and explain his case to the elders of that city; they shall receive him to [the protection of] that city and give him a place to dwell among them. 
Joshua20:5 If the avenger of blood pursues him, they shall not deliver the slayer into his hand, because he killed his neighbor unintentionally, having had no hatred for him previously." 
Joshua20:6 And he shall dwell in that city until he has been tried before the congregation and until the death of him who is the high priest in those days. Then the slayer shall return to his own city from which he fled and to his own house. 
Joshua20:7 And they set apart and consecrated Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali and Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron) in the hill country of Judah." 
Joshua20:8 Beyond the Jordan east of Jericho they appointed Bezer in the wilderness tableland from the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth in Gilead from the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan from the tribe of Manasseh." 
Joshua20:9 These cities were for all the Israelites and the stranger sojourning among them, that whoever killed a person unintentionally might flee there and not be slain by the avenger of blood until he had been tried before the congregation." 
Joshua21:1 THEN THE heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites came to Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the heads of the fathers' houses of the Israelite tribes. 
Joshua21:2 They said to them at Shiloh in Canaan, The Lord commanded through Moses that we should be given cities to dwell in, with their pasturelands (suburbs) for our cattle." 
Joshua21:3 So the Israelites gave to the Levites out of their own inheritance, at the command of the Lord, these cities and their suburbs." 
Joshua21:4 The [first] lot came out for the families of the Kohathites. So those Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest received by lot from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin thirteen cities." 
Joshua21:5 And the rest of the Kohathites received by lot from the families of the tribes of Ephraim, Dan, and the half-tribe of Manasseh ten cities." 
Joshua21:6 The Gershonites received by lot from the families of the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan thirteen cities." 
Joshua21:7 The Merarites received according to their families from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun twelve cities." 
Joshua21:8 The Israelites gave by lot to the Levites these cities with their pasturelands (suburbs), as the Lord commanded through Moses." 
Joshua21:9 They gave from the tribes of Judah and Simeon the cities here mentioned by name," 
Joshua21:10 Which went to the families of the descendants of Aaron, of the Kohathite branch of the Levites, for the lot fell to them first." 
Joshua21:11 They gave them [the city of] Kiriath-arba, Arba being the father of Anak, which city is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, with its pasturelands round about it." 
Joshua21:12 But the city's fields and villages they gave to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his own. 
Joshua21:13 Thus to the descendants of Aaron the priest they gave Hebron, the city of refuge for the slayer, with its pasturelands (suburbs), and together with their suburbs, Libnah," 
Joshua21:14 Jattir, Eshtemoa," 
Joshua21:15 Holon, Debir," 
Joshua21:16 Ain, Juttah, and Beth-shemesh; nine cities, each with its suburbs, out of those two tribes." 
Joshua21:17 Out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon, Geba," 
Joshua21:18 Anathoth, and Almon; four cities, each with its suburbs." 
Joshua21:19 The cities of the sons of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen, with their suburbs." 
Joshua21:20 The rest of the Kohathites belonging to the Levitical families were allotted cities out of the tribe of Ephraim. 
Joshua21:21 To them were given, each with its pasturelands (suburbs), Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, as the city of refuge for the slayer, and Gezer," 
Joshua21:22 And Kibzaim, and Beth-horon; four cities, each with its pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:23 And out of the tribe of Dan, each with its pasturelands (suburbs), Eltekeh, Gibbethon," 
Joshua21:24 Aijalon, and Gath-rimmon; four cities, each with its pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:25 And out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Taanach, and [another] Gath-rimmon; two cities, each with its pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:26 All the cities for the families of the remaining Kohathites were ten, with their pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:27 And to the Gershonites of the families of the Levites they gave out of the other half-tribe of Manasseh the city of Golan in Bashan, as the city of refuge for the slayer, and Be-eshterah; two cities, each with its pasturelands." 
Joshua21:28 Out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishion, Daberath," 
Joshua21:29 Jarmuth, and En-gannim; four cities, each with its suburbs." 
Joshua21:30 Out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal, Abdon," 
Joshua21:31 Helkath, and Rehob; four cities, each with its pasturelands." 
Joshua21:32 And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee, city of refuge for the slayer, and Hammoth-dor, and Kartan; three cities, each with its suburbs." 
Joshua21:33 All the cities of the Gershonite families were thirteen, with their pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:34 And to the families of the Merarites, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun were given Jokneam, Kartah," 
Joshua21:35 Dimnah, and Nahalal; four cities, each with its pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:36 And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer, Jahaz," 
Joshua21:37 Kedemoth, and Mephaath; four cities, each with its pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:38 And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead, as the city of refuge for the slayer, and Mahanaim," 
Joshua21:39 Heshbon, and Jazer; four cities in all, each with its pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:40 So all the cities allotted to the Merarite families, that is, the remainder of the Levite families, were twelve cities." 
Joshua21:41 The cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the Israelites were forty-eight cities in all, with their pasturelands (suburbs)." 
Joshua21:42 These cities all had their pasturelands (suburbs) around them. 
Joshua21:43 And the Lord gave to Israel all the land which He had sworn to give to their fathers, and they possessed it and dwelt in it." 
Joshua21:44 The Lord gave them rest round about, just as He had sworn to their fathers. Not one of all their enemies withstood them; the Lord delivered all their enemies into their hands." 
Joshua21:45 There failed no part of any good thing which the Lord had promised to the house of Israel; all came to pass. 
Joshua22:1 THEN JOSHUA called the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh," 
Joshua22:2 And said to them, You have kept all that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, and have obeyed my voice in all that I commanded you." 
Joshua22:3 You have not deserted your brethren [the other tribes] these many days to this day but have carefully kept the charge of the Lord your God. 
Joshua22:4 But now the Lord your God has given rest to your brethren, as He promised them; so now go, return to your homes in the land of your possession, which Moses the servant of the Lord gave you on the [east] side of the Jordan." 
Joshua22:5 But take diligent heed to do the commandment and the law which Moses the servant of the Lord charged you: to love the Lord your God and to walk in all His ways and to keep His commandments and to cling to and unite with Him and to serve Him with all your heart and soul [your very life]. 
Joshua22:6 So Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their homes." 
Joshua22:7 Now to one-half of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had given a possession in Bashan, but to the other half Joshua gave a possession on the west side of the Jordan among their brethren. So when Joshua sent them away to their homes, he blessed them," 
Joshua22:8 And he said to them, Return with much riches to your tents and with very much livestock, with silver, gold, bronze, iron, and very much clothing. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brethren." 
Joshua22:9 So the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned home, parting from the [other] Israelites at Shiloh in the land of Canaan to go to the land of Gilead, their own land of which they had been given possession by the command of the Lord through Moses." 
Joshua22:10 And when they came to the region of the Jordan in the land of Canaan, the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by the Jordan, an altar great to behold." 
Joshua22:11 And the [other] Israelites heard it said, Behold, the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built an altar at the edge of the land of Canaan in the region [west] of the Jordan in the passage [belonging to us], the Israelites." 
Joshua22:12 When the Israelites heard of it, the whole congregation of the sons of Israel gathered at Shiloh to make war on them." 
Joshua22:13 And the [other] Israelites sent to the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, in the land of Gilead, Phinehas son of Eleazar, the priest," 
Joshua22:14 And with him ten chiefs, one from each of the tribal families of Israel; and each one was a head of a father's house among the clans of Israel." 
Joshua22:15 And they came to the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, in the land of Gilead, and they said to them," 
Joshua22:16 The whole congregation of the Lord says, What trespass is this that you have committed against the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following the Lord, in that you have built yourselves an altar to rebel this day against the Lord?" 
Joshua22:17 Is the iniquity of Peor too little for us, from which we are not cleansed even now, although there came a plague [in which 24,000 died] in the congregation of the Lord, [Num. 25:1-9.]" 
Joshua22:18 That you must turn away this day from following the Lord? The result will be, since you rebel today against the Lord, that tomorrow He will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel." 
Joshua22:19 But now, if your land is unclean, pass over into the Lord's land, where the Lord's tabernacle resides, and take for yourselves a possession among us. But do not rebel against the Lord or rebel against us by building for yourselves an altar other than the altar of the Lord our God." 
Joshua22:20 Did not Achan son of Zerah commit a trespass in the matter of taking accursed things [devoted to destruction] and wrath fall on all the congregation of Israel? And he did not perish alone in his perversity and iniquity. [Josh. 7.] 
Joshua22:21 Then the Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh said to the heads of the clans of Israel," 
Joshua22:22 The Mighty One, God, the Lord! The Mighty One, God, the Lord! He knows, and let Israel itself know! If it was in rebellion or in transgression against the Lord, spare us not today." 
Joshua22:23 If we have built us an altar to turn away from following the Lord, or if we did so to offer on it burnt offerings or cereal offerings or peace offerings, may the Lord Himself take vengeance." 
Joshua22:24 No! But we did it for fear that in time to come your children might say to our children, What have you to do with the Lord, the God of Israel?" 
Joshua22:25 For the Lord has made the Jordan a boundary between us and you, you Reubenites and Gadites; you have no part in the Lord. So your children might make our children cease from fearing the Lord." 
Joshua22:26 So we said, Let us now prepare to build us an altar, not for burnt offering nor for sacrifice," 
Joshua22:27 But to be a witness between us and you and between the generations after us, that we will perform the service of the Lord before Him with our burnt offerings and sacrifices and peace offerings; lest your children say to our children in time to come, You have no portion in the Lord." 
Joshua22:28 So we thought, if that should be said to us or to our descendants in time to come, we can reply, Behold the copy of the altar of the Lord, which our fathers made, not for burnt offerings nor for sacrifices, but to be a witness between us and you." 
Joshua22:29 Far be it from us that we should rebel against the Lord and turn away this day from following the Lord to build an altar for burnt offerings, for cereal offerings, or for sacrifices, besides the altar of the Lord our God that is before His tabernacle." 
Joshua22:30 And when Phinehas the priest and the chiefs of the congregation and heads of the clans of Israel who were with him heard the words that the Reubenites, Gadites, and Manassites spoke, it pleased them." 
Joshua22:31 Phinehas son of Eleazar, the priest, said to the Reubenites, Gadites, and Manassites, Today we know the Lord is among us, because you have not committed this trespass and treachery against the Lord; now you have saved the Israelites from the Lord's hand." 
Joshua22:32 Then Phinehas son of Eleazar, the priest, and the chiefs returned from the Reubenites and Gadites in the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the [other] Israelites, and brought back word to them." 
Joshua22:33 The report pleased the Israelites and they blessed God; and they spoke no more of going to war against them to destroy the land in which the Reubenites and Gadites dwelt. 
Joshua22:34 The Reubenites and Gadites called the altar Ed [witness], saying, It shall be: A Witness Between Us that the Lord is God." 
Joshua23:1 A LONG time after that, when the Lord had given Israel rest from all their enemies round about, and Joshua had grown old and advanced in years," 
Joshua23:2 Joshua summoned all Israel, their elders, heads, judges, and officers, and said to them, I am old and advanced in years." 
Joshua23:3 And you have seen all that the Lord your God has done to all these nations for your sake; for it is the Lord your God Who has fought for you. [Exod. 14:14.] 
Joshua23:4 Behold, I have allotted to you as an inheritance for your tribes those nations that remain, with all the nations I have cut off, from the Jordan to the Great Sea on the west." 
Joshua23:5 The Lord your God will thrust them out from before you and drive them out of your sight, and you shall possess their land, as the Lord your God promised you." 
Joshua23:6 So be very courageous and steadfast to keep and do all that is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, turning not aside from it to the right hand or the left," 
Joshua23:7 That you may not mix with these nations that remain among you, or make mention of the names of their gods or swear by them or serve them or bow down to them." 
Joshua23:8 But cling to the Lord your God as you have done to this day. 
Joshua23:9 For the Lord has driven out from before you great and strong nations; and as for you, no man has been able to withstand you to this day." 
Joshua23:10 One man of you shall put to flight a thousand, for it is the Lord your God Who fights for you, as He promised you." 
Joshua23:11 Be very watchful of yourselves, therefore, to love the Lord your God." 
Joshua23:12 For if you turn back and adhere to the remnant of these nations left among you and make marriages with them, you marrying their women and they yours," 
Joshua23:13 Know with certainty that the Lord your God will not continue to drive these nations from before you; but they shall be a snare and trap to you, and a scourge in your sides and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this good land which the Lord your God has given you." 
Joshua23:14 And behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth. Know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the Lord your God promised concerning you. All have come to pass for you; not one thing of them has failed." 
Joshua23:15 But just as all good things which the Lord promised you have come to you, so will the Lord carry out [His] every [warning of] evil upon you, until He has destroyed you from off this good land which the Lord your God has given you." 
Joshua23:16 If you transgress the covenant of the Lord your God, which He commanded you, if you serve other gods and bow down to them, then the anger of the Lord will be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from off the good land He has given you." 
Joshua24:1 THEN JOSHUA gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and summoned the elders of Israel and their heads, their judges, and their officers; they presented themselves before God." 
Joshua24:2 Joshua said to all the people, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, Your fathers dwelt in olden times beyond the Euphrates River, including Terah the father of Abraham and Nahor, and they served other gods." 
Joshua24:3 And I took your father Abraham from beyond the Euphrates River and led him through all the land of Canaan and multiplied his offspring. I gave him Isaac," 
Joshua24:4 And I gave to Isaac Jacob and Esau. And I gave to Esau the hill country of Seir to possess, but Jacob and his children went down to Egypt." 
Joshua24:5 I sent Moses and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt with what I did in the midst of it; and afterward I brought you out." 
Joshua24:6 I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came to the sea; and the Egyptians pursued your fathers with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea." 
Joshua24:7 When they cried to the Lord, He put darkness between you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them and covered them; and your eyes saw what I did in Egypt. And you lived in the wilderness a long time [forty years]. [Josh. 5:6.]" 
Joshua24:8 I brought you into the land of the Amorites who lived on the other side of the Jordan; they fought with you, and I gave them into your hand, and you possessed their land, and I destroyed them before you." 
Joshua24:9 Then Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and warred against Israel, and sent and called Balaam son of Beor to curse you." 
Joshua24:10 But I would not listen to Balaam; therefore he blessed you; so I delivered you out of Balak's hand. [Deut. 23:5.] 
Joshua24:11 You went over the Jordan and came to Jericho; and the men of Jericho fought against you, as did the Amorites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hittites, Girgashites, Hivites, and Jebusites, and I gave them into your hands." 
Joshua24:12 I sent the hornet [that is, the terror of you] before you, which drove the two kings of the Amorites out before you; but it was not by your sword or by your bow. [Exod. 23:27, 28; Deut. 2:25; 7:20.]" 
Joshua24:13 I have given you a land for which you did not labor and cities you did not build, and you dwell in them; you eat from vineyards and olive yards you did not plant." 
Joshua24:14 Now therefore, [reverently] fear the Lord and serve Him in sincerity and in truth; put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the [Euphrates] River and in Egypt, and serve the Lord." 
Joshua24:15 And if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell; but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." 
Joshua24:16 The people answered, Far be it from us to forsake the Lord to serve other gods;" 
Joshua24:17 For it is the Lord our God Who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, Who did those great signs in our sight and preserved us in all the way that we went and among all the peoples through whom we passed." 
Joshua24:18 And the Lord drove out before us all the people, the Amorites who dwelt in the land. Therefore we also will serve the Lord, for He is our God." 
Joshua24:19 And Joshua said to the people, You cannot serve the Lord, for He is a holy God; He is a jealous God. He will not forgive your transgressions or your sins." 
Joshua24:20 If you forsake the Lord and serve strange gods, then He will turn and do you harm and consume you, after having done you good." 
Joshua24:21 And the people said to Joshua, No; but we will serve the Lord." 
Joshua24:22 Then Joshua said to the people, You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen the Lord, to serve Him. And they said, We are witnesses." 
Joshua24:23 Then put away, said he, the foreign gods that are among you and incline your hearts to the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Joshua24:24 The people said to Joshua, The Lord our God we will serve; His voice we will obey." 
Joshua24:25 So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day, and made statutes and ordinances for them at Shechem." 
Joshua24:26 And Joshua wrote these words in the Book of the Law of God; and he took a great stone and set it up there under an oak that was in [the court of] the sanctuary of the Lord. 
Joshua24:27 And Joshua said to all the people, See, this stone shall be a witness against us, for it has heard all the words the Lord spoke to us; so it shall be a witness against you, lest [afterward] you lie (pretend) and deny your God." 
Joshua24:28 So Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance." 
Joshua24:29 After this, Joshua son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being 110 years old." 
Joshua24:30 They buried him at the edge of his inheritance in Timnath-serah in the hill country of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill of Gaash." 
Joshua24:31 Israel served the Lord all the days of Joshua and of the elders who outlived Joshua and had known all the works the Lord had done for Israel. 
Joshua24:32 And the bones of Joseph, which the Israelites brought up out of Egypt, they buried in Shechem in the portion of ground Jacob bought from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for 100 pieces of money; and it became the inheritance of the Josephites." 
Joshua24:33 And Eleazar son of Aaron died; and they buried him at Gibeah [on the hill] of Phinehas his son, which was given him in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges1:1 AFTER THE death of Joshua, the Israelites asked the Lord, Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?" 
Judges1:1 AFTER THE death of Joshua, the Israelites asked the Lord, Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?" 
Judges1:2 And the Lord said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have delivered the land into his hand." 
Judges1:3 And Judah [the tribe] said to [the tribe of] Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my allotted territory, so that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with you into your territory. So Simeon went with him." 
Judges1:4 Then Judah went up and the Lord delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand, and they smote 10,000 of them in Bezek." 
Judges1:5 And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek and fought against him, and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzites." 
Judges1:6 Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and his big toes." 
Judges1:7 Adoni-bezek said, Seventy kings with their thumbs and big toes cut off had to gather their food under my table. As I have done, so God has repaid me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died." 
Judges1:8 And the men of Judah fought against [Jebusite] Jerusalem and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword and set the city on fire." 
Judges1:9 Afterward the men of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who dwelt in the hill country, in the South (the Negeb), and in the lowland." 
Judges1:10 And Judah went against the Canaanites who dwelt in Hebron. The name of Hebron before was Kiriath-arba. And they defeated Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai. 
Judges1:11 From there [Judah] went against the inhabitants of Debir. The name of Debir before was Kiriath-sepher [city of books and scribes]. 
Judges1:12 And Caleb said, Whoever attacks Kiriath-sepher and takes it, to him will I give Achsah, my daughter, as wife." 
Judges1:13 And Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah, his daughter, as wife." 
Judges1:14 And when she came to [Othniel], she got his consent to ask her father for a [sloping] field. And she alighted off her donkey, and Caleb said to her, What do you want?" 
Judges1:15 And she said to him, Give me a present; since you have set me in the land of the South (the Negeb), give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs." 
Judges1:16 And the descendants of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the Judahites from the City of Palms (Jericho) into the Wilderness of Judah, which lies in the South (the Negeb) near Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people." 
Judges1:17 And [the tribe of] Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites who inhabited Zephath and utterly destroyed it. So the city was called Hormah [destruction]." 
Judges1:18 Also Judah took Gaza, Askelon, and Ekron,each with its territory." 
Judges1:19 The Lord was with Judah, and [Judah] drove out the inhabitants of the hill country, but he could not drive out those inhabiting the [difficult] valley basin because they had chariots of iron." 
Judges1:20 Hebron was given to Caleb as Moses said, and he expelled from there the three sons of Anak. [Josh. 14:6, 9.]" 
Judges1:21 But the Benjamites did not drive out the Jebusites who inhabited Jerusalem; the Jebusites dwell with the Benjamites in Jerusalem to this day. 
Judges1:22 The house of Joseph also went up against Bethel, and the Lord was with them." 
Judges1:23 And the house of Joseph was sent to spy out Bethel. The name of the city formerly had been Luz. 
Judges1:24 And the spies saw a man coming out of the city and they said to him, Show us, we pray you, the way into the city and we will show you mercy." 
Judges1:25 When he showed them the entrance to the city, they smote the city with the sword, but they let the man and all his family go." 
Judges1:26 And the man went into the land of the Hittites and built a city and called it Luz, which is its name to this day." 
Judges1:27 Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its villages, or of Taanach or Dor or Ibleam or Megiddo and their villages, but the Canaanites remained in that land." 
Judges1:28 When Israel became strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor but did not utterly drive them out." 
Judges1:29 Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites who dwelt in Gezer, but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them." 
Judges1:30 Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron or of Nahalol, but the Canaanites dwelt among them and were put to forced labor." 
Judges1:31 Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Acco or of Sidon or of Ahlab or of Achzib or of Helbah or of Aphik or of Rehob; 
Judges1:32 But the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out." 
Judges1:33 Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh or of Beth-anath, but dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; but the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-anath became subject to forced labor for them." 
Judges1:34 The Amorites forced the Danites back into the hill country, for they would not allow them to come down into the plain;" 
Judges1:35 The Amorites remained fixed in Mount Heres [mountain of the sun], in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim; yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became subject to forced labor." 
Judges1:36 And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock Sela and onward." 
Judges2:1 NOW THE Angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochim. And He said, I brought you up from Egypt and have brought you to the land which I swore to give to your fathers, and I said, I will never break My covenant with you; [Exod. 20:2.]" 
Judges2:2 And you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; but you shall break down their altars. But you have not obeyed My voice. Why have you done this? 
Judges2:3 So now I say, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to you." 
Judges2:4 When the Angel of the Lord spoke these words to all the Israelites, the people lifted up their voice and wept." 
Judges2:5 They named that place Bochim [weepers], and they sacrificed there to the Lord." 
Judges2:6 And when Joshua had let the people go, the Israelites went every man to his inheritance to possess the land." 
Judges2:6 And when Joshua had let the people go, the Israelites went every man to his inheritance to possess the land." 
Judges2:7 And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord which He did for Israel." 
Judges2:7 And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord which He did for Israel." 
Judges2:8 And Joshua son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being 110 years old." 
Judges2:8 And Joshua son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being 110 years old." 
Judges2:9 And they buried him within the boundary of his inheritance in Timnath-heres in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash." 
Judges2:10 And also all that generation were gathered to their fathers, and there arose another generation after them who did not know (recognize, understand) the Lord, or even the work which He had done for Israel." 
Judges2:11 And the people of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals. 
Judges2:12 And they forsook the Lord, the God of their fathers, Who brought them out of the land of Egypt. They went after other gods of the peoples round about them and bowed down to them, and provoked the Lord to anger." 
Judges2:13 And they forsook the Lord and served Baal [the god worshiped by the Canaanites] and the Ashtaroth [female deities such as Ashtoreth and Asherah]. 
Judges2:14 So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and He gave them into the power of plunderers who robbed them; and He sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that they could no longer stand before their foes." 
Judges2:15 Whenever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them for evil as the Lord had said, and as the Lord had sworn to them; and they were bitterly distressed. [Lev. 26:14-46.]" 
Judges2:16 But the Lord raised up judges, who delivered them out of the hands of those who robbed them." 
Judges2:17 And yet they did not listen to their judges, for they played the harlot after other gods and bowed down to them. They turned quickly out of the way in which their fathers had walked, who had obeyed the commandments of the Lord, and they did not so." 
Judges2:18 When the Lord raised them up judges, then He was with the judge and delivered them out of the hands of their enemies all the days of the judge; for the Lord was moved to relent because of their groanings by reason of those who oppressed and vexed them." 
Judges2:19 But when the judge was dead, they turned back and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, following and serving other gods, and bowing down to them. They did not cease from their practices or their stubborn way." 
Judges2:20 So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel; and He said, Because this people have transgressed My covenant which I commanded their fathers and have not listened to My voice," 
Judges2:21 I from now on will also not drive out from before them any of the nations which Joshua left when he died," 
Judges2:21 I from now on will also not drive out from before them any of the nations which Joshua left when he died," 
Judges2:22 That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the Lord to walk in it, as their fathers kept it, or not." 
Judges2:23 So the Lord left those nations, without driving them out at once, nor had He delivered them into Joshua's power." 
Judges2:23 So the Lord left those nations, without driving them out at once, nor had He delivered them into Joshua's power." 
Judges3:1 NOW THESE are the nations which the Lord left to prove Israel by them, that is, all in Israel who had not previously experienced war in Canaan;" 
Judges3:2 It was only that the generations of the Israelites might know and be taught war, at least those who previously knew nothing of it." 
Judges3:3 The remaining nations are: the five lords of the Philistines, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites who dwelt on Mount Lebanon from Mount Baal-hermon to the entrance of Hamath." 
Judges3:4 They were for the testing and proving of Israel to know whether Israel would listen and obey the commandments of the Lord, which He commanded their fathers by Moses." 
Judges3:5 And the Israelites dwelt among the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites;" 
Judges3:6 And they married their daughters and gave their own daughters to their sons, and served their gods. [Exod. 34:12-16.]" 
Judges3:7 And the Israelites did evil in the sight of the Lord and forgot the Lord their God and served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. [Judg. 2:13.] 
Judges3:8 So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and He sold them into the hand of Chushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the Israelites served Chushan-rishathaim eight years." 
Judges3:9 But when the Israelites cried to the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer for the people of Israel to deliver them, Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother." 
Judges3:10 The Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he judged Israel. He went out to war, and the Lord delivered Chushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand and his hand prevailed over Chushan-rishathaim." 
Judges3:11 And the land had rest forty years. Then Othniel son of Kenaz died. 
Judges3:12 And the Israelites again did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel because they had done what was evil in the sight of the Lord." 
Judges3:13 And [Eglon] gathered to him the men of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and they possessed the City of Palm Trees (Jericho)." 
Judges3:14 And the Israelites served Eglon king of Moab eighteen years. 
Judges3:15 But when the Israelites cried to the Lord, the Lord raised them up a deliverer, Ehud son of Gera, a Benjamite, a left-handed man; and by him the Israelites sent tribute to Eglon king of Moab." 
Judges3:16 Ehud made for himself a sword, a cubit long, which had two edges, and he girded it on his right thigh under his clothing." 
Judges3:17 And he brought the tribute to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man. 
Judges3:18 And when Ehud had finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people who had carried it." 
Judges3:19 He himself went [with them] as far as the sculptured [boundary] stones near Gilgal, and then turned back and came to Eglon and said, I have a secret errand to you, O king. Eglon commanded silence, and all who stood by him went out from him." 
Judges3:20 When Ehud had come [near] to him as he was sitting alone in his cool upper apartment, Ehud said, I have a commission from God to execute to you. And the king arose from his seat." 
Judges3:21 Then Ehud put forth his left hand and took the sword from his right thigh and thrust it into Eglon's belly. 
Judges3:22 And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the blade, for [Ehud] did not draw the sword out of his belly, and the dirt came out." 
Judges3:23 Then Ehud went out into the vestibule and shut the doors of the upper room upon [Eglon] and locked them. 
Judges3:24 When [Ehud] had gone out, [Eglon's] servants came. And when they saw the doors of the upper room were locked, they thought, Surely he [is seeking privacy while he] relieves himself in the closet of the cool chamber." 
Judges3:25 They waited a long time until they became embarrassed and uneasy, but when he still did not open the doors of the upper room, they took the key and opened them, and there lay their master fallen to the floor, dead!" 
Judges3:26 Ehud escaped while they delayed and passed beyond the sculptured [boundary] stones (images) and escaped to Seirah. 
Judges3:27 When he arrived, he blew a trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim, and the Israelites went down from the hill country, with him at their head." 
Judges3:28 And he said to them, Follow me, for the Lord has delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. So they went down after him and seized the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites and permitted not a man to pass over." 
Judges3:29 They slew at that time about 10,000 Moabites, all strong, courageous men; not a man escaped." 
Judges3:30 So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel, and the land had peace and rest for eighty years." 
Judges3:31 After [Ehud] was Shamgar son of Anath, who slew 600 Philistine men with an oxgoad. He also delivered Israel." 
Judges4:1 BUT AFTER Ehud died the Israelites again did evil in the sight of the Lord. 
Judges4:2 So the Lord sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera, who dwelt in Harosheth-hagoiim [fortress or city of the nations]." 
Judges4:3 Then the Israelites cried to the Lord, for [Jabin] had 900 chariots of iron and had severely oppressed the Israelites for twenty years." 
Judges4:4 Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, judged Israel at that time." 
Judges4:5 She sat under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim, and the Israelites came up to her for judgment." 
Judges4:6 And she sent and called Barak son of Abinoam from Kedesh in Naphtali and said to him, Has not the Lord, the God of Israel, commanded [you], Go, gather your men at Mount Tabor, taking 10,000 men from the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun?" 
Judges4:7 And I will draw out Sisera, the general of Jabin's army, to meet you at the river Kishon with his chariots and his multitude, and I will deliver him into your hand?" 
Judges4:8 And Barak said to her, If you will go with me, then I will go; but if you will not go with me, I will not go." 
Judges4:9 And she said, I will surely go with you; nevertheless, the trip you take will not be for your glory, for the Lord will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kedesh. [Fulfilled in Judg. 4:22.]" 
Judges4:10 And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and he went up with 10,000 men at his heels, and Deborah went up with him." 
Judges4:11 Now Heber the Kenite, of the descendants of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses, had separated from the Kenites and encamped as far away as the oak in Zaanannim, which is near Kedesh." 
Judges4:12 When it was told Sisera that Barak son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor," 
Judges4:13 Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even 900 chariots of iron, and all the men who were with him from Harosheth-hagoiim to the river Kishon." 
Judges4:14 And Deborah said to Barak, Up! For this is the day when the Lord has given Sisera into your hand. Is not the Lord gone out before you? So Barak went down from Mount Tabor with 10,000 men following him." 
Judges4:15 And the Lord confused and terrified Sisera and all his chariot drivers and all his army before Barak with the sword. And Sisera alighted from his chariot and fled on foot. 
Judges4:16 But Barak pursued after the chariots and the army to Harosheth-hagoiim, and all the army of Sisera fell by the sword; not a man was left." 
Judges4:17 But Sisera fled on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite." 
Judges4:18 And Jael went out to meet Sisera and said to him, Turn aside, my lord, turn aside to me; have no fear. So he turned aside to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug." 
Judges4:19 And he said to her, Give me, I pray you, a little water to drink for I am thirsty. And she opened a skin of milk and gave him a drink and covered him." 
Judges4:20 And he said to her, Stand at the door of the tent, and if any man comes and asks you, Is there any man here? Tell him, No." 
Judges4:21 But Jael, Heber's wife, took a tent pin and a hammer in her hand and went softly to him and drove the pin through his temple and into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep from weariness. So he died." 
Judges4:22 And behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him and said to him, Come, and I will show you the man you seek. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the tent pin was in his temples." 
Judges4:23 So God subdued on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the Israelites. 
Judges4:24 And the hand of the Israelites bore more and more upon Jabin king of Canaan until they had destroyed [him]. 
Judges5:1 THEN SANG Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam on that day, saying," 
Judges5:2 For the leaders who took the lead in Israel, for the people who offered themselves willingly, bless the Lord!" 
Judges5:3 Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes; I will sing to the Lord. I will sing praise to the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Judges5:4 Lord, when You went forth out of Seir, when You marched out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled and the heavens also dropped, yes, the clouds dropped water." 
Judges5:5 The mountains quaked at the presence of the Lord, yes, yonder Sinai at the presence of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Judges5:6 After the days of Shamgar son of Anath, after the days of Jael [meaning here Ehud] the caravans ceased, travelers walked through byways." 
Judges5:7 The villages were unoccupied and rulers ceased in Israel until you arose,you, Deborah, arose,a mother in Israel." 
Judges5:8 [Formerly] they chose new gods; then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among 40,000 in Israel?" 
Judges5:9 My heart goes out to the commanders of Israel who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless the Lord! 
Judges5:10 Tell of it,you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit on rich carpets, and you who walk by the way." 
Judges5:11 Far from the noise of archers in the places of drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of the Lord, even the righteous acts toward His villagers in Israel. Then the people of the Lord went down to the gates." 
Judges5:12 Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and lead away your captives, you son of Abinoam." 
Judges5:13 Then down marched the remnant of the nobles, the people of the Lord marched down for Me against the mighty." 
Judges5:14 Out of Ephraim they came down whose root is in Amalek, after you, Benjamin, with your kinsmen. Out of Machir came down commanders and lawgivers, and out of Zebulun those who handle the pen or stylus of the writer." 
Judges5:15 And the princes of Issachar came with Deborah, and Issachar was faithful to Barak; into the valley they rushed forth at his heels. [But] among the clans of Reuben were great searchings of heart." 
Judges5:16 Why [Reuben] did you linger among the sheepfolds listening to the piping for the flocks? Among the clans of Reuben there were great searchings of heart. 
Judges5:17 Gilead remained beyond the Jordan, and why did Dan stay with the ships? Asher sat still on the seacoast and remained by his creeks. [These came not forth to battle for God's people.]" 
Judges5:18 But Zebulun was a people who endangered their lives to the death; Naphtali did also on the heights of the field. 
Judges5:19 The kings came and fought, then fought the kings of Canaan at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. Gain of booty they did not obtain." 
Judges5:20 From the heavens the stars fought, from their courses they fought against Sisera." 
Judges5:21 The torrent Kishon swept [the foe] away, the onrushing torrent, the torrent Kishon. O my soul, march on with strength!" 
Judges5:22 Then the horses' hoofs beat loudly because of the galloping of [fleeing] valiant riders. 
Judges5:23 Curse Meroz, said the messenger of the Lord. Curse bitterly its inhabitants, because they came not to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the mighty!" 
Judges5:24 Blessed above women shall Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, be; blessed shall she be above women in the tent." 
Judges5:25 [Sisera] asked for water, and she gave [him] milk; she brought him curds in a lordly dish." 
Judges5:26 She put her [left] hand to the tent pin, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer. And with the wooden hammer she smote Sisera, she smote his head, yes, she struck and pierced his temple." 
Judges5:27 He sank, he fell, he lay still at her feet. At her feet he sank, he fell; where he sank, there he fell,dead!" 
Judges5:28 The mother of Sisera looked out at a window and wailed through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the hoofbeats of his chariots tarry?" 
Judges5:29 Her wise ladies answered her, yet she repeated her words to herself," 
Judges5:30 Have they not found and been dividing the spoil? A maiden or two for every man, a spoil of dyed garments for Sisera, a spoil of dyed stuffs embroidered, two pieces of dyed work embroidered for my neck as spoil?" 
Judges5:31 So let all Your enemies perish, O Lord! But let those who love Him be like the sun when it rises in its might. And the land had peace and rest for forty years." 
Judges6:1 BUT THE Israelites did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hand of Midian for seven years." 
Judges6:2 And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of Midian the Israelites made themselves the dens which are in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds. 
Judges6:3 For whenever Israel had sown their seed, the Midianites and the Amalekites and the people of the east came up against them." 
Judges6:4 They would encamp against them and destroy the crops as far as Gaza and leave no nourishment for Israel, and no ox or sheep or donkey." 
Judges6:5 For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came like locusts for multitude; both they and their camels could not be counted. So they wasted the land as they entered it." 
Judges6:6 And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the Israelites cried to the Lord." 
Judges6:7 And when they cried to the Lord because of Midian," 
Judges6:8 The Lord sent a prophet to the Israelites, who said to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you forth out of the house of bondage." 
Judges6:9 And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out from before you and gave you their land." 
Judges6:10 And I said to you, I am the Lord your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But you have not obeyed My voice." 
Judges6:11 Now the Angel of the Lord came and sat under the oak (terebinth) at Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the Abiezrite, and his son Gideon was beating wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites." 
Judges6:12 And the Angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you mighty man of [fearless] courage." 
Judges6:13 And Gideon said to him, O sir, if the Lord is with us, why is all this befallen us? And where are all His wondrous works of which our fathers told us, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord has forsaken us and given us into the hand of Midian." 
Judges6:14 The Lord turned to him and said, Go in this your might, and you shall save Israel from the hand of Midian. Have I not sent you?" 
Judges6:15 Gideon said to Him, Oh Lord, how can I deliver Israel? Behold, my clan is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house." 
Judges6:16 The Lord said to him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall smite the Midianites as one man." 
Judges6:17 Gideon said to Him, If now I have found favor in Your sight, then show me a sign that it is You Who talks with me." 
Judges6:18 Do not leave here, I pray You, until I return to You and bring my offering and set it before You. And He said, I will wait until you return." 
Judges6:19 Then Gideon went in and prepared a kid and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour. The meat he put in a basket and the broth in a pot, and brought them to Him under the oak and presented them." 
Judges6:20 And the Angel of God said to him, Take the meat and unleavened cakes and lay them on this rock and pour the broth over them. And he did so." 
Judges6:21 Then the Angel of the Lord reached out the tip of the staff that was in His hand, and touched the meat and the unleavened cakes, and there flared up fire from the rock and consumed the meat and the unleavened cakes. Then the Angel of the Lord vanished from his sight." 
Judges6:22 And when Gideon perceived that He was the Angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God! For now I have seen the Angel of the Lord face to face!" 
Judges6:23 The Lord said to him, Peace be to you, do not fear; you shall not die." 
Judges6:24 Then Gideon built an altar there to the Lord and called it, The Lord is Peace. To this day it still stands in Ophrah, which belongs to the Abiezrites." 
Judges6:25 That night the Lord said to Gideon, Take your father's bull, the second bull seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal that your father has and cut down the Asherah [symbol of the goddess Asherah] that is beside it;" 
Judges6:26 And build an altar to the Lord your God on top of this stronghold with stones laid in proper order. Then take the second bull and offer a burnt sacrifice with the wood of the Asherah which you shall cut down. 
Judges6:27 Then Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the Lord had told him, but because he was too afraid of his father's household and the men of the city to do it by day, he did it by night." 
Judges6:28 And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was beside it, and the second bull was offered on the altar which had been built." 
Judges6:29 And they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And when they searched and asked, they were told, Gideon son of Joash has done this thing." 
Judges6:30 Then the men of the city commanded Joash, Bring out your son, that he may die, for he has pulled down the altar of Baal and cut down the Asherah beside it." 
Judges6:31 But Joash said to all who stood against him, Will you contend for Baal? Or will you save him? He who will contend for Baal, let him be put to death while it is still morning. If Baal is a god, let him contend for himself because one has pulled down his altar." 
Judges6:32 Therefore on that day he called Gideon Jerubbaal, meaning, Let Baal contend against him, because he had pulled down his altar." 
Judges6:33 Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the people of the east came together and, crossing the Jordan, encamped in the Valley of Jezreel." 
Judges6:34 But the Spirit of the Lord clothed Gideon with Himself and took possession of him, and he blew a trumpet, and [the clan of] Abiezer was gathered to him." 
Judges6:35 And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and the Manassites were called to follow him; and he sent messengers to Asher, to Zebulun, and to Naphtali, and they came up to meet them." 
Judges6:36 And Gideon said to God, If You will deliver Israel by my hand as You have said," 
Judges6:37 Behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece only and it is dry on all the ground, then I shall know that You will deliver Israel by my hand, as You have said." 
Judges6:38 And it was so. When he rose early next morning and squeezed the dew out of the fleece, he wrung from it a bowlful of water." 
Judges6:39 And Gideon said to God, Let not your anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me make trial only this once with the fleece, I pray you; let it now be dry only upon the fleece and upon all the ground let there be dew." 
Judges6:40 And God did so that night, for it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground." 
Judges7:1 THEN JERUBBAAL, that is, Gideon, and all the people who were with him rose early and encamped beside the spring of Harod; and the camp of Midian was north of them by the hill of Moreh in the valley." 
Judges7:2 The Lord said to Gideon, The people who are with you are too many for Me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel boast about themselves against Me, saying, My own hand has delivered me." 
Judges7:3 So now proclaim in the ears of the men, saying, Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him turn back and depart from Mount Gilead. And 22,000 of the men returned, but 10,000 remained." 
Judges7:4 And the Lord said to Gideon, The men are still too many; bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. And he of whom I say to you, This man shall go with you, shall go with you; and he of whom I say to you, This man shall not go with you, shall not go." 
Judges7:5 So he brought the men down to the water, and the Lord said to Gideon, Everyone who laps up the water with his tongue as a dog laps it, you shall set by himself, likewise everyone who bows down on his knees to drink." 
Judges7:6 And the number of those who lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was 300 men, but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water." 
Judges7:7 And the Lord said to Gideon, With the 300 men who lapped I will deliver you, and give the Midianites into your hand. Let all the others return every man to his home." 
Judges7:8 So the people took provisions and their trumpets in their hands, and he sent all the rest of Israel every man to his home and retained those 300 men. And the host of Midian was below him in the valley." 
Judges7:9 That same night the Lord said to Gideon, Arise, go down against their camp, for I have given it into your hand." 
Judges7:10 But if you fear to go down, go with Purah your servant down to the camp" 
Judges7:11 And you shall hear what they say, and afterward your hands shall be strengthened to go down against the camp. Then he went down with Purah his servant to the outposts of the camp of the armed men." 
Judges7:12 And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the sons of the east lay along the valley like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand on the seashore for multitude." 
Judges7:13 When Gideon arrived, behold, a man was telling a dream to his comrade. And he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian and came to the tent and struck it so that it fell, and turned it upside down so that the tent lay flat." 
Judges7:14 And his comrade replied, This is nothing else but the sword of Gideon son of Joash, a man of Israel. Into his hand God has given Midian and all the host." 
Judges7:15 When Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation, he worshiped and returned to the camp of Israel and said, Arise, for the Lord has given into your hand the host of Midian." 
Judges7:16 And he divided the 300 men into three companies, and he put into the hands of all of them trumpets and empty pitchers, with torches inside the pitchers." 
Judges7:17 And he said to them, Look at me, then do likewise. When I come to the edge of their camp, do as I do." 
Judges7:18 When I blow the trumpet, I and all who are with me, then you blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp and shout, For the Lord and for Gideon!" 
Judges7:19 So Gideon and the 100 men who were with him came to the outskirts of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, when the guards had just been changed, and they blew the trumpets and smashed the pitchers that were in their hands." 
Judges7:20 And the three companies blew the trumpets and shattered the pitchers, holding the torches in their left hands, and in their right hands the trumpets to blow [leaving no chance to use swords], and they cried, The sword for the Lord and Gideon!" 
Judges7:21 They stood every man in his place round about the camp, and all the [Midianite] army ran,they cried out and fled." 
Judges7:22 When [Gideon's men] blew the 300 trumpets, the Lord set every [Midianite's] sword against his comrade and against all the army, and the army fled as far as Beth-shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel-meholah by Tabbath." 
Judges7:23 And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali and Asher and all Manasseh, and they pursued Midian." 
Judges7:24 And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites and take all the intervening fords as far as Beth-barah and also the Jordan. So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together and took all the fords as far as Beth-barah and also the Jordan." 
Judges7:25 And [the men of Ephraim] took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and they slew Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan." 
Judges8:1 AND THE men of Ephraim said to Gideon, Why have you treated us like this, not calling us when you went to fight with Midian? And they quarreled with him furiously." 
Judges8:2 And he said to them, What have I done now in comparison with you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of [your big tribe of] Ephraim better than the vintage of [my little clan of] Abiezer?" 
Judges8:3 God has given into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and what was I able to do in comparison with you? Then their anger toward him was abated when he had said that." 
Judges8:4 And Gideon came to the Jordan and passed over, he and the 300 men with him, faint yet pursuing." 
Judges8:5 And he said to the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, loaves of bread to the people who follow me, for they are faint, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian." 
Judges8:6 And the princes of Succoth said, Are Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand, that we should give bread to your army?" 
Judges8:7 And Gideon said, For that, when the Lord has delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will thresh your flesh with the thorns and briers of the wilderness!" 
Judges8:8 And he went from there up to Penuel and made the same request, and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had done." 
Judges8:9 And [Gideon] said to the men of Penuel, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower." 
Judges8:10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor with their army,about 15,000 men, all who were left of all the army of the sons of the east, for there had fallen 120,000 men who drew the sword." 
Judges8:11 And Gideon went up by the route of those who dwelt in tents east of Nobah and Jogbehah and smote their camp [unexpectedly], for the army thought itself secure." 
Judges8:12 And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued them and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and terrified all the army." 
Judges8:13 Then Gideon son of Joash returned from the battle by the ascent of Heres. 
Judges8:14 And he caught a young man of Succoth and inquired of him, and [the youth] wrote down for him [the names of] the officials of Succoth and its elders, seventy-seven men." 
Judges8:15 And he came to the men of Succoth and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom you scoffed at me, saying, Are Zebah and Zalmunna now in your hand, that we should give bread to your men who are faint?" 
Judges8:16 And he took the elders of the city and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth [a lesson]." 
Judges8:17 And he broke down the tower of Penuel and slew the men of the city. 
Judges8:18 Then [Gideon] said to Zebah and Zalmunna, What kind of men were they whom you slew at Tabor? And they replied, They were like you, each of them resembled the son of a king." 
Judges8:19 And he said, They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As the Lord lives, if you had saved them alive, I would not slay you." 
Judges8:20 And [Gideon] said to Jether his firstborn [to embarrass them], Up, and slay them. But the youth drew not his sword, for he feared because he was yet a lad." 
Judges8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise yourself and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose and slew Zebah and Zalmunna and took the [crescent-shaped] ornaments that were on their camels' necks." 
Judges8:22 Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, Rule over us,you and your son and your son's son also,for you have delivered us from the hand of Midian." 
Judges8:23 And Gideon said to them, I will not rule over you, and my son will not rule over you; the Lord will rule over you." 
Judges8:24 And Gideon said to them, Let me make a request of you,every man of you give me the earrings of his spoil. For [the Midianites] had gold earrings because they were Ishmaelites [general term for all descendants of Keturah]." 
Judges8:25 And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and every man cast on it the earrings of his spoil." 
Judges8:26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was 1,700 shekels of gold, besides the crescents and pendants and the purple garments worn by the kings of Midian, and the chains that were about their camels' necks." 
Judges8:27 And Gideon made an ephod [a sacred, high priest's garment] of it, and put it in his city of Ophrah, and all Israel paid homage to it there, and it became a snare to Gideon and to his family." 
Judges8:28 Thus was Midian subdued before the Israelites so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had peace and rest for forty years in the days of Gideon. 
Judges8:29 Jerubbaal (Gideon) son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house. 
Judges8:30 Now Gideon had seventy sons born to him, for he had many wives." 
Judges8:31 And his concubine, who was in Shechem, also bore him a son, whom he named Abimelech." 
Judges8:32 Gideon son of Joash died at a good old age and was buried in the tomb of Joash his father in Ophrah of the Abiezrites. 
Judges8:33 As soon as Gideon was dead, the Israelites turned again and played the harlot after the Baals and made Baal-berith their god." 
Judges8:34 And the Israelites did not remember the Lord their God, Who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;" 
Judges8:35 Neither did they show kindness to the family of Jerubbaal, that is, Gideon, in return for all the good which he had done for Israel." 
Judges9:1 NOW ABIMELECH son of Jerubbaal (Gideon) went to Shechem to his mother's kinsmen and said to them and to the whole clan of his mother's family," 
Judges9:2 Say, I pray you, in the hearing of all the men of Shechem, Which is better for you: that all seventy of the sons of Jerubbaal reign over you, or that one man rule over you? Remember also that I am your bone and your flesh." 
Judges9:3 And his mother's kinsmen spoke all these words concerning him in the hearing of all the men of Shechem, and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, He is our brother." 
Judges9:4 And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal-berith, with which Abimelech hired worthless and foolhardy men who followed him." 
Judges9:5 And he went to his father's house at Ophrah and slew his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men, on one stone. But Jotham, the youngest son of Jerubbaal, was left, for he hid himself." 
Judges9:6 And all the men of Shechem gathered together and all of Beth-millo, and they went and made Abimelech king by the oak (terebinth) of the pillar at Shechem." 
Judges9:7 When it was told to Jotham, he went and stood at the top of Mount Gerizim and shouted to them, Hear me, men of Shechem, that God may hear you." 
Judges9:8 One time the trees went forth to anoint a king over them, and they said to the olive tree, Reign over us." 
Judges9:9 But the olive tree said to them, Should I leave my fatness, by which God and man are honored, and go to wave over the trees?" 
Judges9:10 Then the trees said to the fig tree, You come and reign over us." 
Judges9:11 But the fig tree said to them, Should I leave my sweetness and my good fruit and go to wave over the trees?" 
Judges9:12 Then the trees said to the vine (grapevine), You come and reign over us." 
Judges9:13 And the vine (grapevine) replied, Should I leave my new wine, which rejoices God and man, and go to wave over the trees?" 
Judges9:14 Then all the trees said to the bramble, You come and reign over us." 
Judges9:15 And the bramble said to the trees, If in good faith you are anointing me king over you, then come and take refuge in my shade; but if not, let fire come out of the bramble and devour the cedars of Lebanon." 
Judges9:16 Now therefore, if you acted sincerely and honorably when you made Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house and have done to him as his deeds deserved," 
Judges9:17 For my father fought for you, jeopardized his life, and rescued you from the hand of Midian;" 
Judges9:18 And you have risen up against my father's house this day and have slain his sons, seventy men, on one stone and have made Abimelech, son of his maidservant, king over the people of Shechem because he is your kinsman," 
Judges9:19 If you then have acted sincerely and honorably with Jerubbaal and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you;" 
Judges9:20 But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the people of Shechem and Beth-millo, and let fire come out from the people of Shechem and Beth-millo and devour Abimelech." 
Judges9:21 And Jotham ran away and fled, and went to Beer and dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother." 
Judges9:22 Abimelech reigned three years over Israel. 
Judges9:23 And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem, and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech," 
Judges9:24 That the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and that their blood might be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brothers." 
Judges9:25 And the men of Shechem set men in ambush against [Abimelech] on the mountaintops, and they robbed all who passed by them along that way; and it was told to Abimelech." 
Judges9:26 And Gaal son of Ebed came with his kinsmen and moved into Shechem, and the men of Shechem put confidence in him." 
Judges9:27 And they went out into the field, gathered their vineyard fruits and trod them, and held a festival; and going into the house of their god, they ate and drank and cursed Abimelech." 
Judges9:28 Gaal son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem, that we should serve him? Were not the son of Jerubbaal and Zebul, his officer, servants of the men of Hamor the father and founder of Shechem? Then why should we serve him?" 
Judges9:29 Would that this people were under my hand! Then would I remove Abimelech and say to him, Increase your army and come out." 
Judges9:30 When Zebul the city's mayor heard the words of Gaal son of Ebed, his anger was kindled." 
Judges9:31 And he sent messengers to Abimelech slyly, saying, Behold, Gaal son of Ebed and his kinsmen have come to Shechem; and behold, they stir up the city to rise against you." 
Judges9:32 Now therefore, rise up by night, you and the men with you, and lie in wait in the field." 
Judges9:33 Then in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, rise early and set upon the city; and when Gaal and the men with him come out against you, do to them as opportunity permits." 
Judges9:34 And Abimelech rose up by night, and all the men with him, and they laid in wait against Shechem in four companies." 
Judges9:35 And Gaal son of Ebed came out and stood in the entrance of the city's gate. Then Abimelech and the men with him rose up from ambush. 
Judges9:36 When Gaal saw the men, he said to Zebul, Look, men are coming down from the mountaintops! Zebul said to him, The shadow of the mountains looks to you like men." 
Judges9:37 And Gaal spoke again and said, See, men are coming down from the center of the land, and one company is coming from the direction of the oak of Meonenim [the sorcerers]." 
Judges9:38 Then said Zebul to Gaal, Where is your [big] mouth now, you who said, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Are not these the men whom you have despised? Go out now and fight with them." 
Judges9:39 And Gaal went out ahead of the men of Shechem and fought with Abimelech. 
Judges9:40 And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; and many fell wounded,even to the entrance of the gate." 
Judges9:41 And Abimelech lodged at Arumah, and Zebul thrust out Gaal and his kinsmen so that they could not live in Shechem." 
Judges9:42 The next day the men went out into the fields, and Abimelech was told." 
Judges9:43 He took his men and divided them into three companies and laid in wait in the field; and he looked and behold, the people were coming out of the city. And he rose up against them and smote them." 
Judges9:44 And Abimelech and the company with him rushed forward and stood in the entrance of the city's gate, while the two other companies rushed upon all who were in the field and slew them." 
Judges9:45 And Abimelech fought against the city all that day. He took the city and slew the people who were in it. He demolished the city and sowed it with salt. 
Judges9:46 And when all the men of the Tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered the stronghold of the house of El-berith [the god of Berith]." 
Judges9:47 Abimelech was told that all the people of the Tower of Shechem were gathered together. 
Judges9:48 And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the men with him; and Abimelech took an ax in his hand and cut down a bundle of brush, picked it up, and laid it on his shoulder. And he said to the men with him, What you have seen me do, make haste to do also." 
Judges9:49 So each of the men cut down his bundle and following Abimelech put it against the stronghold and set [the stronghold] on fire over the people in it, so that all the people of the Tower of Shechem also died, about 1,000 men and women." 
Judges9:50 Then Abimelech went to Thebez and encamped against Thebez and took it. 
Judges9:51 But there was a strong tower in the city, and all the people of the city,men and women,fled to it, shut themselves in, and went to the roof of the tower." 
Judges9:52 And Abimelech came to the tower and fought against it and drew near the door of the tower to burn it with fire. 
Judges9:53 But a certain woman cast an upper millstone [down] upon Abimelech's head and broke his skull. 
Judges9:54 Then he called hastily to the young man, his armor-bearer, and said to him, Draw your sword and slay me, so that men may not say of me, A woman slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died." 
Judges9:55 And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed each man to his home." 
Judges9:56 Thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech which he had done to his father [Gideon] by slaying his seventy brothers; 
Judges9:57 And all the wickedness of the men of Shechem God repaid upon their heads and caused to come upon them the curse of Jotham son of Jerubbaal. [Judg. 9:19, 20.]" 
Judges10:1 AFTER ABIMELECH there arose to rescue Israel, Tola son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he lived at Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges10:2 He judged Israel twenty-three years; then he died and was buried in Shamir. 
Judges10:3 After him arose Jair the Gileadite, and he judged Israel twenty-two years." 
Judges10:4 And he had thirty sons who rode on thirty donkey colts, and they had thirty towns called Havvoth-jair [towns of Jair] which to this day are in the land of Gilead." 
Judges10:5 And Jair died and was buried in Kamon. 
Judges10:6 And the Israelites again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, served the Baals, the Ashtaroth [female deities], the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the Ammonites, and the gods of the Philistines. They forsook the Lord and did not serve Him." 
Judges10:7 And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and He sold them into the hands of the Philistines and the Ammonites," 
Judges10:8 And they oppressed and crushed and broke the Israelites that year. For eighteen years they oppressed all the Israelites beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead." 
Judges10:9 And the Ammonites passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was sorely distressed." 
Judges10:10 And the Israelites cried to the Lord, saying, We have sinned against You, because we have forsaken our God and have served the Baals." 
Judges10:11 And the Lord said to the Israelites, Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians, the Amorites, the Ammonites, and the Philistines?" 
Judges10:12 Also when the Sidonians, the Amalekites, and the Maonites oppressed and crushed you, you cried to Me, and I delivered you out of their hands." 
Judges10:13 Yet you have forsaken Me and served other gods; therefore I will deliver you no more. 
Judges10:14 Go, cry to the gods you have chosen; let them deliver you in your time of distress." 
Judges10:15 And the Israelites said to the Lord, We have sinned, do to us whatever seems good to You; only deliver us, we pray You, this day." 
Judges10:16 So they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the Lord, and His heart became impatient over the misery of Israel." 
Judges10:17 Then the Ammonites were gathered together and they encamped in Gilead. And the Israelites assembled and encamped at Mizpah. 
Judges10:18 And the leaders of Gilead [the Israelites] said one to another, Who is the man who will begin to fight against the Ammonites? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead." 
Judges11:1 NOW JEPHTHAH the Gileadite was a mighty warrior, but he was the son of a harlot. Gilead was Jephthah's father." 
Judges11:2 And Gilead's wife also bore him sons, and when his wife's sons grew up, they thrust Jephthah out and said to him, You shall not have an inheritance in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman." 
Judges11:3 Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and dwelt in the land of Tob; and worthless men gathered around Jephthah and went on raids with him. 
Judges11:4 And after a time, the Ammonites made war against Israel." 
Judges11:5 And when the Ammonites made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah out of the land of Tob;" 
Judges11:6 And they said to Jephthah, Come and be our leader, that we may fight with the Ammonites." 
Judges11:7 But Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Did you not hate me and drive me out of my father's house? Why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?" 
Judges11:8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, This is why we have turned to you now, that you may go with us and fight the Ammonites and be our head over all the citizens of Gilead." 
Judges11:9 Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, If you bring me home again to fight against the Ammonites and the Lord gives them over to me, [understand that] I will be your head." 
Judges11:10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, The Lord is witness between us, if we do not do as you have said." 
Judges11:11 So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and leader over them. And Jephthah repeated all he had promised before the Lord at Mizpah." 
Judges11:12 And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites, saying, What have you to do with me, that you have come against me to fight in my land?" 
Judges11:13 The Ammonites' king replied to the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land [which was not true] when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even to Jabbok and to the Jordan; now therefore, restore those lands peaceably." 
Judges11:14 And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the Ammonites 
Judges11:15 And said to him, Thus says Jephthah, Israel did not take the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites." 
Judges11:16 But when [Israel] came up from Egypt, [they] walked through the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh." 
Judges11:17 Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let us, we pray, pass through your land, but the king of Edom would not listen. Also they sent to the king of Moab, but he would not consent. So Israel remained at Kadesh." 
Judges11:18 Then they went through the wilderness and went around the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab and camped on the other side of the Arnon; but they came not within the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was the boundary of Moab." 
Judges11:19 Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Let us pass, we pray you, through your land to our country." 
Judges11:20 But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory; so Sihon gathered all his people together and encamped at Jahaz and fought with Israel. 
Judges11:21 And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them; so Israel took possession of all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country." 
Judges11:22 They possessed all the territory of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan." 
Judges11:23 So now the Lord God of Israel has dispossessed the Amorites from before His people Israel, and should you possess them?" 
Judges11:24 Will you not possess what Chemosh your god gives you to possess? And all the Lord our God dispossessed before us, we will possess." 
Judges11:25 Now are you any better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever strive against Israel or did he ever go to war with them?" 
Judges11:26 While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its villages, and in Aroer and its villages, and in all the cities along the banks of the Arnon for 300 years, why did you not recover [your lost lands] during that time?" 
Judges11:27 So I have not sinned against you, but you are doing me wrong to war against me. The Lord, the [righteous] Judge, judge this day between the Israelites and the Ammonites." 
Judges11:28 But the king of the Ammonites did not listen to the message Jephthah sent him. 
Judges11:29 Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed on to the Ammonites." 
Judges11:30 And Jephthah made a vow to the Lord and said, If You will indeed give the Ammonites into my hand," 
Judges11:31 Then whatever or whoever comes forth from the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the Ammonites, it shall be the Lord's, and I will offer it or him up as a burnt offering." 
Judges11:32 Then Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites to fight with them, and the Lord gave them into his hand." 
Judges11:33 And from Aroer to Minnith he smote them, twenty cities, and as far as Abel-cheramim [the meadow of vineyards], with a very great slaughter. So the Ammonites were subdued before the Israelites." 
Judges11:34 Then Jephthah came to Mizpah to his home, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances! And she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter." 
Judges11:35 And when he saw her, he rent his clothes and said, Alas, my daughter! You have brought me very low, and you are the cause of great trouble to me; for I have opened my mouth [in a vow] to the Lord, and I cannot take it back." 
Judges11:36 And she said to him, My father, if you have opened your mouth to the Lord, do to me according to what you have vowed, since the Lord has taken vengeance for you on your enemies, the Ammonites." 
Judges11:37 And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me; let me alone two months, that I may go and wander upon the mountains and bewail my virginity, I and my companions." 
Judges11:38 And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months, and she went with her companions and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains." 
Judges11:39 At the end of two months she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed. She never mated with a man. This became a custom in Israel," 
Judges11:40 That the daughters of Israel went yearly to mourn the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year. 
Judges12:1 THE MEN of Ephraim were summoned together and they crossed to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, Why did you cross over to fight with the Ammonites and did not summon us to go with you? We will burn your house over you with fire." 
Judges12:2 And Jephthah said to them, I and my people were in a severe conflict with the Ammonites, and I when I called you, you did not rescue me from their hands." 
Judges12:3 And when I saw that you would not rescue me, I put my life in my hands and crossed over against the Ammonites, and the Lord delivered them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against me?" 
Judges12:4 Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim because they had said, You Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh." 
Judges12:5 And the Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan before the Ephraimites; and when any of those Ephraimites who had escaped said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Are you an Ephraimite? If he said, No," 
Judges12:6 They said to him, Then say Shibboleth; and he said, Sibboleth, for he could not pronounce it right. Then they seized him and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell at that time 42,000 of the Ephraimites." 
Judges12:7 Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead. 
Judges12:8 And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel. 
Judges12:9 And he had thirty sons and thirty daughters whom he gave [to husbands] outside his tribe, and thirty daughters [daughters-in-law] whom he brought in from outside his tribe for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years." 
Judges12:10 Then Ibzan died and was buried at Bethlehem. 
Judges12:11 After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel, and he judged Israel ten years." 
Judges12:12 Then Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried at Aijalon in the land of Zebulun. 
Judges12:13 And after him Abdon son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel. 
Judges12:14 And he had forty sons and thirty grandsons who rode on seventy donkey colts; and he judged Israel eight years. 
Judges12:15 Then Abdon son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried at Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites." 
Judges13:1 AND THE Israelites again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years." 
Judges13:2 And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the tribe of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren and had no children." 
Judges13:3 And the Angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, Behold, you are barren and have no children, but you shall become pregnant and bear a son." 
Judges13:4 Therefore beware and drink no wine or strong drink and eat nothing unclean. 
Judges13:5 For behold, you shall become pregnant and bear a son. No razor shall come upon his head, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from birth, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hands of the Philistines." 
Judges13:6 Then the woman went and told her husband, saying, A Man of God came to me and his face was like the face of the Angel of God, to be greatly and reverently feared. I did not ask him from where he came, and he did not tell me his name." 
Judges13:7 But he said to me, Behold, you shall become pregnant and bear a son, and now drink no wine or strong drink and eat nothing unclean, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from birth to the day of his death." 
Judges13:8 Then Manoah entreated the Lord and said, O Lord, let the Man of God whom You sent come again to us and teach us what we shall do with the child that shall be born." 
Judges13:9 And God listened to the voice of Manoah, and the Angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her." 
Judges13:10 And the woman ran in haste and told her husband and said to him, Behold, the Man who came to me the other day has appeared to me." 
Judges13:11 And Manoah arose and went after his wife and came to the Man and said to him, Are you the Man who spoke to this woman? And he said, I am." 
Judges13:12 And Manoah said, Now when your words come true, how shall we manage the child, and what is he to do?" 
Judges13:13 And the Angel of the Lord said to Manoah, Let the mother beware of all that I told her." 
Judges13:14 She may not eat of anything that comes from the grapevine, nor drink wine or strong drink nor eat any unclean thing. All that I commanded her let her observe." 
Judges13:15 And Manoah said to the Angel of the Lord, Pray, let us detain you that we may prepare a kid for you." 
Judges13:16 And the Angel of the Lord said to Manoah, Though you detain me, I will not eat of your food, but if you make ready a burnt offering, offer it to the Lord. For Manoah did not know that he was the Angel of the Lord." 
Judges13:17 And Manoah said to the Angel of the Lord, What is your name, so that when your words come true, we may do you honor?" 
Judges13:18 And the Angel of the Lord said to him, Why do you ask my name, seeing it is wonderful? [Isa. 9:6.]" 
Judges13:19 So Manoah took the kid with the cereal offering and offered it upon a rock to the Lord, the Angel working wonders, while Manoah and his wife looked on." 
Judges13:20 For when the flame went up toward the heavens from the altar, the Angel of the Lord ascended in the altar flame. And Manoah and his wife looked on, and they fell on their faces to the ground." 
Judges13:21 The Angel of the Lord did not appear again to Manoah or to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was the Angel of the Lord. 
Judges13:22 And Manoah said to his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God." 
Judges13:23 But his [sensible] wife said to him, If the Lord were pleased to kill us, He would not have received a burnt offering and a cereal offering from our hands, nor have shown us all these things or now have announced such things as these." 
Judges13:24 And the woman [in due time] bore a son and called his name Samson; and the child grew and the Lord blessed him. 
Judges13:25 And the Spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in Mahaneh-dan [the camp of Dan] between Zorah and Eshtaol. 
Judges14:1 SAMSON WENT down to Timnah and at Timnah saw one of the daughters of the Philistines. 
Judges14:2 And he came up and told his father and mother, I saw one of the daughters of the Philistines at Timnah; now get her for me as my wife." 
Judges14:3 But his father and mother said to him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of your kinsmen or among all our people, that you must go to take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said to his father, Get her for me, for she is all right in my eyes." 
Judges14:4 His father and mother did not know that it was of the Lord, and that He sought an occasion for assailing the Philistines. At that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel." 
Judges14:5 Then Samson and his father and mother went down to Timnah and came to the vineyards of Timnah. And behold, a young lion roared against him." 
Judges14:6 And the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him, and he tore the lion as he would have torn a kid, and he had nothing in his hand; but he did not tell his father or mother what he had done." 
Judges14:7 And he went down and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well." 
Judges14:8 And after a while he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the body of the lion, and behold, a swarm of bees and honey were in the body of the lion." 
Judges14:9 And he scraped some of the honey out into his hands and went along eating. And he came to his father and mother and gave them some, and they ate it; but he did not tell them he had taken the honey from the body of the lion." 
Judges14:10 His father went down to the woman, and Samson made a feast there, for that was the customary thing for young men to do." 
Judges14:11 And when the people saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him." 
Judges14:12 And Samson said to them, I will now put forth a riddle to you; if you can tell me what it is within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen undergarments and thirty changes of raiment." 
Judges14:13 But if you cannot declare it to me, then shall you give me thirty linen undergarments and thirty changes of festive [costly] raiment. And they said to him, Put forth your riddle, that we may hear it." 
Judges14:14 And he said to them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not solve the riddle in three days." 
Judges14:15 And on the seventh day they said to Samson's wife, Entice your husband to declare to us the riddle, lest we burn you and your father's household with fire. Have you invited us to make us poor? Is this not true?" 
Judges14:16 And Samson's wife wept before him and said, You only hate me, you do not love me; you have put forth a riddle to my countrymen and have not told the answer to me. And he said to her, Behold, I have not told my father or my mother, and shall I tell you?" 
Judges14:17 And Samson's wife wept before him the seven days their feast lasted, and on the seventh day he told her because she pressed him with entreaties. Then she told the riddle to her countrymen." 
Judges14:18 And the men of the city said to [Samson] on the seventh day before sundown, What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not plowed with my heifer, you would not have solved my riddle." 
Judges14:19 And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and slew thirty men of them and took their apparel [as spoil], and gave the changes of garments to those who explained the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house." 
Judges14:20 But Samson's wife was [given] to his companion who was his [best] friend. 
Judges15:1 BUT SOME days later, in the time of wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife, taking along a kid [as a token of reconciliation]; and he said, I will go unto my wife in the inner chamber. But her father would not allow him to go in." 
Judges15:2 And her father said, I truly thought you utterly hated her, so I gave her to your companion. Is her younger sister not fairer than she? Take her, I pray you, instead." 
Judges15:3 And Samson said of them, This time shall I be blameless as regards the Philistines, though I do them evil." 
Judges15:4 So Samson went and caught 300 foxes or jackals and took torches and turning the foxes tail to tail, he put a torch between each pair of tails." 
Judges15:5 And when he had set the torches ablaze, he let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and he burned up the shocks and the standing grain, along with the olive orchards." 
Judges15:6 Then the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they were told, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he [the Timnite] has taken his [Samson's] wife and has given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire." 
Judges15:7 And Samson said to them, If this is the way you act, surely I will take revenge on you, and after that I will quit." 
Judges15:8 And he smote them hip and thigh [unsparingly], a great slaughter; and he went down and dwelt in the cleft of the rock of Etam." 
Judges15:9 Then the Philistines came up and encamped in Judah and spread themselves in Lehi. 
Judges15:10 And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they answered, We have come up to bind Samson, to do to him as he has done to us." 
Judges15:11 Then 3,000 men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock Etam and said to Samson, Have you not known that the Philistines are rulers over us? What is this that you have done to us? He said to them, As they did to me, so have I done to them." 
Judges15:12 And they said to him, We have come down to bind you, that we may deliver you into the hands of the Philistines. And Samson said to them, Swear to me that you will not fall upon me yourselves." 
Judges15:13 And they said to him, No, we will bind you fast and give you into their hand; but surely we will not kill you. So they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rock." 
Judges15:14 And when he came to Lehi, the Philistines came shouting to meet him. And the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon [Samson], and the ropes on his arms became as flax that had caught fire, and his bonds melted off his hands." 
Judges15:15 And he found a still moist jawbone of a donkey and reached out and took it and slew 1,000 men with it." 
Judges15:16 And Samson said, With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of a donkey I have slain 1,000 men!" 
Judges15:17 And when he stopped speaking, he cast the jawbone from his hand; and that place was called Ramath-lehi [the hill of the jawbone]." 
Judges15:18 Samson was very thirsty, and he prayed to the Lord and said, You have given this great deliverance by the hand of Your servant, and now shall I die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?" 
Judges15:19 And God split open the hollow place that was at Lehi, and water came out of it. And when he drank, his spirit returned and he revived. Therefore the name of it was called En-hakkore [the spring of him who prayed], which is at Lehi to this day." 
Judges15:20 And [Samson] judged (defended) Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years. [Judg. 17:6.] 
Judges16:1 THEN SAMSON went to Gaza and saw a harlot there, and went in to her." 
Judges16:2 The Gazites were told, Samson has come here. So they surrounded the place and lay in wait for him all night at the gate of the city. They were quiet all night, saying, In the morning, when it is light, we will kill him." 
Judges16:3 But Samson lay until midnight, and [then] he arose and took hold of the doors of the city's gate and the two posts, and pulling them up, bar and all, he put them on his shoulders and carried them to the top of the hill that is before Hebron." 
Judges16:4 After this he loved a woman in the Valley of Sorek whose name was Delilah. 
Judges16:5 And the lords of the Philistines came to her and said to her, Entice him and see in what his great strength lies, and by what means we may overpower him that we may bind him to subdue him. And we will each give you 1,100 pieces of silver." 
Judges16:6 And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray you, wherein your great strength lies, and with what you might be bound to subdue you." 
Judges16:7 And Samson said to her, If they bind me with seven fresh, strong gutstrings, still moist, then shall I be weak and be like any other man." 
Judges16:8 Then the Philistine lords brought to her seven fresh, strong bowstrings, still moist, and she bound him with them." 
Judges16:9 Now she had men lying in wait in an inner room. And she said to him, The Philistines are upon you, Samson! And he broke the bowstrings as a string of tow breaks when it touches the fire. So the secret of his strength was not known." 
Judges16:10 And Delilah said to Samson, Behold, you have mocked me and told me lies; now tell me, I pray you, how you might be bound." 
Judges16:11 And he said to her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that have not been used, then I shall become weak and be like any other man." 
Judges16:12 So Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them and said to him, The Philistines are upon you, Samson! And the men lying in wait were in the inner room. But he snapped the ropes off his arms like [sewing] thread." 
Judges16:13 And Delilah said to Samson, Until now you have mocked me and told me lies; tell me with what you might be bound. And he said to her, If you weave the seven braids of [the hair of] my head with the web." 
Judges16:14 And she did so and fastened it with the pin and said to him, The Philistines are upon you, Samson! And he awoke out of his sleep and went away with the pin of the [weaver's] beam and with the web." 
Judges16:15 And she said to him, How can you say, I love you, when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me these three times and have not told me in what your great strength lies." 
Judges16:16 And when she pressed him day after day with her words and urged him, he was vexed to death." 
Judges16:17 Then he told her all his mind and said to her, A razor has never come upon my head, for I have been a Nazirite to God from my birth. If I am shaved, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak and be like any other man." 
Judges16:18 And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his mind, she went and called for the Philistine lords, saying, Come up this once, for he has told me all he knows. Then the Philistine lords came up to her and brought the money in their hands." 
Judges16:19 And she made Samson sleep upon her knees, and she called a man and caused him to shave off the seven braids of his head. Then she began to torment [Samson], and his strength went from him." 
Judges16:20 She said, The Philistines are upon you, Samson! And he awoke out of his sleep and said, I will go out as I have time after time and shake myself free. For Samson did not know that the Lord had departed from him." 
Judges16:21 But the Philistines laid hold of him, bored out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza and bound him with [two] bronze fetters; and he ground at the mill in the prison." 
Judges16:22 But the hair of his head began to grow again after it had been shaved. 
Judges16:23 Then the Philistine lords gathered together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to rejoice, for they said, Our god has given Samson our enemy into our hands." 
Judges16:24 And when the people saw Samson, they praised their god, for they said, Our god has delivered into our hands our enemy, the ravager of our country, who has slain many of us." 
Judges16:25 And when their hearts were merry, they said, Call for Samson, that he may make sport for us. So they called [blind] Samson out of the prison, and he made sport before them. They made him stand between the pillars." 
Judges16:26 And Samson said to the lad who held him by the hand, Allow me to feel the pillars upon which the house rests, that I may lean against them." 
Judges16:27 Now the house was full of men and women; all the Philistine princes were there, and on the roof were about 3,000 men and women who looked on while Samson made sport." 
Judges16:28 Then Samson called to the Lord and said, O Lord God, [earnestly] remember me, I pray You, and strengthen me, I pray You, only this once, O God, and let me have one vengeance upon the Philistines for both my eyes." 
Judges16:29 And Samson laid hold of the two middle pillars by which the house was borne up, one with his right hand and the other with his left." 
Judges16:30 And Samson cried, Let me die with the Philistines! And he bowed himself mightily, and the house fell upon the princes and upon all the people that were in it. So the dead whom he slew at his death were more than they whom he slew in his life." 
Judges16:31 Then his kinsmen and all the tribal family of his father came down, took his body, and brought it up; and they buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the burial place of Manoah his father. He had judged Israel [that is, had defended the Israelites] twenty years. [Judg. 17:6; Heb. 11:32.]" 
Judges17:1 THERE WAS a man of the hill country of Ephraim whose name was Micah. 
Judges17:1 THERE WAS a man of the hill country of Ephraim whose name was Micah. 
Judges17:2 And he said to his mother, The 1,100 shekels of silver that were taken from you, about which you cursed and also spoke about in my hearing, behold, I have the silver with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be you by the Lord, my son!" 
Judges17:3 He restored the 1,100 shekels of silver to his mother, and she said, I had truly dedicated the silver to the Lord from my hand for my son to make a graven image and a molten image; now therefore, I will restore it to you." 
Judges17:4 So when he restored the money to his mother, she took 200 pieces of silver and gave them to the silversmith, who made of it a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:4 So when he restored the money to his mother, she took 200 pieces of silver and gave them to the silversmith, who made of it a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:5 And the man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod and teraphim and dedicated one of his sons, who became his priest." 
Judges17:5 And the man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod and teraphim and dedicated one of his sons, who became his priest." 
Judges17:6 In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his own eyes. 
Judges17:7 And there was a young man in Bethlehem of Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there." 
Judges17:8 And the man departed from the town of Bethlehem in Judah to sojourn where he could find a place, and as he journeyed he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah." 
Judges17:8 And the man departed from the town of Bethlehem in Judah to sojourn where he could find a place, and as he journeyed he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah." 
Judges17:9 And Micah said to him, From where do you come? And he said to him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem in Judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place." 
Judges17:9 And Micah said to him, From where do you come? And he said to him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem in Judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place." 
Judges17:10 And Micah said to him, Dwell with me and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten pieces of silver each year, a suit of clothes, and your living. So the Levite went in." 
Judges17:10 And Micah said to him, Dwell with me and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten pieces of silver each year, a suit of clothes, and your living. So the Levite went in." 
Judges17:11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, and the young man was to Micah as one of his sons." 
Judges17:11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, and the young man was to Micah as one of his sons." 
Judges17:12 And Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest and was in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:12 And Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest and was in the house of Micah." 
Judges17:13 Then said Micah, Now I know that the Lord will favor me, since I have a Levite to be my priest." 
Judges17:13 Then said Micah, Now I know that the Lord will favor me, since I have a Levite to be my priest." 
Judges18:1 IN THOSE days there was no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the Danites sought for itself an inheritance to dwell in, for until then no [sufficient] inheritance had been acquired by them among the tribes of Israel." 
Judges18:2 So the Danites sent from the whole number of their tribe five brave men from Zorah and Eshtaol to spy out the land and to explore it, and they said to them, Go, explore the land. They came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there." 
Judges18:2 So the Danites sent from the whole number of their tribe five brave men from Zorah and Eshtaol to spy out the land and to explore it, and they said to them, Go, explore the land. They came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there." 
Judges18:3 When they went by the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite, and they turned aside there and said to him, Who brought you here? And what do you do in this place? And what have you here?" 
Judges18:3 When they went by the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite, and they turned aside there and said to him, Who brought you here? And what do you do in this place? And what have you here?" 
Judges18:4 And he said to them, Thus and thus Micah deals with me and has hired me, and I am his priest." 
Judges18:4 And he said to them, Thus and thus Micah deals with me and has hired me, and I am his priest." 
Judges18:5 And they said to him, Ask counsel, we pray you, of God that we may know whether our journey will be successful." 
Judges18:6 And the priest said to them, Go in peace. The way in which you go is before (under the eye of) the Lord." 
Judges18:7 Then the five men departed and came to Laish and saw the people who were there, how they dwelt securely after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and feeling safe; and there was no magistrate in the land, who might put them to shame in anything or injure them; and they were far from the Sidonians and had no dealings with anyone." 
Judges18:8 The five men came back to their brethren at Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren said to them, What do you say?" 
Judges18:9 They said, Arise, let us go up against them, for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very fertile. And will you do nothing? Do not be slow to go and enter in and possess the land." 
Judges18:10 When you go, you will come to people [feeling] safe and secure. The land is broad [widely extended on all sides]; and God has given it into your hands,a place where there is no want of anything that is in the earth." 
Judges18:11 And there went from there of the tribe of the Danites, out of Zorah and Eshtaol, 600 men armed with weapons of war." 
Judges18:12 And they went up and encamped at Kiriath-jearim in Judah. Therefore they called that place Mahaneh-dan [camp of Dan] to this day; it is west of Kiriath-jearim. 
Judges18:13 And they passed from there to the hill country of Ephraim and came to Micah's house. 
Judges18:13 And they passed from there to the hill country of Ephraim and came to Micah's house. 
Judges18:14 Then the five men who had gone to spy out the country of Laish said to their brethren, Do you know that there are in these houses an ephod, teraphim, a graven image, and a molten image? Now therefore, consider what you have to do." 
Judges18:15 And they turned in that direction and came to the house of the young Levite, at the home of Micah, and saluted him." 
Judges18:15 And they turned in that direction and came to the house of the young Levite, at the home of Micah, and saluted him." 
Judges18:16 Now the 600 Danites with their weapons of war stood at Micah's gate. 
Judges18:16 Now the 600 Danites with their weapons of war stood at Micah's gate. 
Judges18:17 And the five men who had gone to spy out the land went up and entered the house and took the graven image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, while the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the 600 men armed with weapons of war." 
Judges18:18 And when these went into Micah's house and took the carved image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said to them, What are you doing?" 
Judges18:18 And when these went into Micah's house and took the carved image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said to them, What are you doing?" 
Judges18:19 And they said to him, Be still, put your hand over your mouth, and come with us, and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be a priest to the house of one man, or that you be a priest to a tribe and family in Israel?" 
Judges18:20 And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people." 
Judges18:21 So they turned and departed and put the little ones, the cattle, and the baggage in front of them." 
Judges18:22 When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men who were Micah's near neighbors were called out and overtook the Danites." 
Judges18:22 When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men who were Micah's near neighbors were called out and overtook the Danites." 
Judges18:23 They shouted to the Danites, who turned and said to Micah, What ails you, that you come with such a company?" 
Judges18:23 They shouted to the Danites, who turned and said to Micah, What ails you, that you come with such a company?" 
Judges18:24 And he said, You take away my gods which I made and the priest, and go away; and what have I left? How can you say to me, What ails you?" 
Judges18:25 And the men of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall upon you and you lose your life with the lives of your household." 
Judges18:26 And the Danites went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house." 
Judges18:26 And the Danites went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house." 
Judges18:27 And they took the things which Micah had made, and his priest, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and feeling secure, and they smote them with the sword and burned the city." 
Judges18:27 And they took the things which Micah had made, and his priest, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and feeling secure, and they smote them with the sword and burned the city." 
Judges18:28 And there was no deliverer because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with anyone. It was in the valley which belongs to Beth-rehob. And they rebuilt the city and dwelt in it." 
Judges18:29 They named the city Dan, after Dan their forefather who was born to Israel; however, the name of the city was Laish at first." 
Judges18:30 And the Danites set up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land." 
Judges18:31 So they set them up Micah's graven image which he made, as long as the house of God was at Shiloh." 
Judges18:31 So they set them up Micah's graven image which he made, as long as the house of God was at Shiloh." 
Judges19:1 IN THOSE days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite was living temporarily in the most remote part of the hill district of Ephraim, who took to himself a concubine [of inferior status than a wife] from Bethlehem in Judah." 
Judges19:2 And his concubine was untrue to him and went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem of Judah and stayed there the space of four months. 
Judges19:3 Then her husband arose and went after her to speak kindly to her [to her heart] and to bring her back, having with him his servant and a couple of donkeys. And she brought him into her father's house, and when her father saw him, he rejoiced to meet him." 
Judges19:4 And his father-in-law, the girl's father, [insistently] detained him, and he remained with him three days. So they ate and drank, and he lodged there." 
Judges19:5 On the fourth day they arose early in the morning, and the [Levite] prepared to leave, but the girl's father said to his son-in-law, Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread and afterward go your way." 
Judges19:6 So both men sat down and ate and drank together, and the girl's father said to the man, Consent to stay all night and let your heart be merry." 
Judges19:7 And when the man rose up to depart, his father-in-law urged him; so he lodged there again." 
Judges19:8 And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart, but the girl's father said, Strengthen your heart and tarry until toward evening. So they ate, both of them." 
Judges19:9 And when the man and his concubine and his servant rose up to leave, his father-in-law, the girl's father, said to him, Behold, now the day draws toward evening, I pray you stay all night. Behold, now the day grows to an end, lodge here and let your heart be merry, and tomorrow get early on your way and go home." 
Judges19:10 But the man would not stay that night; so he rose up and departed and came opposite to Jebus, which is Jerusalem. With him were two saddled donkeys [and his servant] and his concubine." 
Judges19:11 When they were near Jebus, it was late, and the servant said to his master, Come I pray, and let us turn into this Jebusite city and lodge in it." 
Judges19:12 His master said to him, We will not turn aside into the city of foreigners where there are no Israelites. We will go on to Gibeah." 
Judges19:13 And he said to his servant, Come and let us go to one of these places and spend the night in Gibeah or in Ramah." 
Judges19:14 So they passed on and went their way, and the sun went down on them near Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin," 
Judges19:15 And they turned aside there to go in and lodge at Gibeah. And the Levite went in and sat down in the open square of the city, for no man took them into his house to spend the night." 
Judges19:16 And behold, an old man was coming from his work in the field at evening. He was from the hill country of Ephraim but was living temporarily in Gibeah, but the men of the place were Benjamites." 
Judges19:17 And when he looked up, he saw the wayfarer in the city square, and the old man said, Where are you going? And from where did you come?" 
Judges19:18 The Levite replied, We are passing from Bethlehem of Judah to the rear side of the hill country of Ephraim; I am from there. I went to Bethlehem of Judah, but I am [now] going [home] to the house of the Lord [where I serve], and there is no man who receives me into his house." 
Judges19:19 Yet we have both straw and provender for our donkeys and bread and wine also for me, your handmaid, and the young man who is with your servants; there is no lack of anything." 
Judges19:20 And the old man said, Peace be to you, but leave all your wants to me; only do not lodge in the street." 
Judges19:21 So he brought him into his house and gave provender to the donkeys. And the guests washed their feet and ate and drank. 
Judges19:22 Now as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain worthless fellows, beset the house round about, beat on the door, and said to the master of the house, the old man, Bring forth the man who came to your house, that we may have intercourse with him." 
Judges19:23 And the man, the master of the house, went out and said to them, No, my kinsmen, I pray you, do not act so wickedly; seeing that this man is my guest, do not do this [wicked] folly." 
Judges19:24 Behold, here are my virgin daughter and this man's concubine; them I will bring out now; debase them and do with them what seems good to you, but to this man do not so vile a thing." 
Judges19:25 But the men would not listen to him. So the man took his concubine and forced her forth to them, and they had intercourse with her and abused her all the night until morning. And when the dawn began to break, they let her go." 
Judges19:26 At daybreak the woman came and fell down and lay at the door of the man's house where her master was, till it was light." 
Judges19:27 And her master rose up in the morning and opened the doors of the house and went out to go his way; and behold, his concubine had fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold." 
Judges19:28 And he said to her, Up, and let us be going. But there was no answer [for she was dead]. Then he put her [body] upon the donkey, and the man rose up and went home." 
Judges19:29 And when he came into his house, he took a knife, and took hold of his dead concubine and divided her [body] limb by limb into twelve pieces and sent her [body] throughout all the territory of Israel." 
Judges19:30 And all who saw it said, There was no such deed done or seen from the day that the Israelites came up out of the land of Egypt to this day; consider it, take counsel, and speak [your minds]." 
Judges20:1 THEN ALL the Israelites came out, and the congregation assembled as one man to the Lord at Mizpah, from Dan even to Beersheba, including the land of Gilead." 
Judges20:2 And the chiefs of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, 400,000 men on foot who drew the sword." 
Judges20:3 (Now the Benjamites [among whom the vile tragedy occurred] heard that the [other] Israelites had gone up to Mizpah.) There the Israelites asked, How did this wickedness happen?" 
Judges20:4 And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, replied, I came to Gibeah which belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night." 
Judges20:5 And the men of Gibeah rose against me and beset the house round about me by night; they meant to kill me and they raped my concubine, and she is dead." 
Judges20:6 And I took my concubine and cut her in pieces and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel, for they have committed abomination and [wicked] folly in Israel." 
Judges20:7 Behold, you Israelites, all of you, give here your advice and counsel." 
Judges20:8 And all the people arose as one man, saying, Not any of us will go to his tent, and none of us will return to his home." 
Judges20:9 But now this we will do to Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it," 
Judges20:10 And we will take ten men of 100 throughout all the tribes of Israel, and 100 of 1,000, and 1,000 out of 10,000, to bring provisions for the men, that when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin they may do to them according to all the [wicked] folly which they have committed in Israel." 
Judges20:11 So all the men of Israel gathered against the city, united as one man." 
Judges20:12 And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that has been done among you?" 
Judges20:13 Now therefore, give up the men [involved], the base fellows in Gibeah, that we may put them to death and put away evil from Israel. But the Benjamites would not listen to the voice of their kinsmen the Israelites." 
Judges20:14 But the Benjamites out of the cities assembled at Gibeah to go out to battle against the other Israelites. 
Judges20:15 And the Benjamites mustered out of their cities at that time 26,000 men who drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who mustered 700 chosen men." 
Judges20:16 Among all these were 700 chosen left-handed men; every one could sling stones at a hair and not miss. 
Judges20:17 And the men of Israel, other than Benjamin, mustered 400,000 men who drew the sword; all these were men of war." 
Judges20:18 The Israelites arose and went up to the house of God [Bethel] and asked counsel of God and said, Which of us shall take the lead to battle against the Benjamites? And the Lord said, Judah shall go up first." 
Judges20:19 Then the Israelites rose in the morning and encamped against Gibeah. 
Judges20:20 And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin and set the battle in array against them at Gibeah. 
Judges20:21 The Benjamites came forth out of Gibeah and felled to the ground that day 22,000 men of the Israelites." 
Judges20:22 But the people, the men of Israel, took courage and strengthened themselves and again set their battle line in the same place where they formed it the first day." 
Judges20:23 And the Israelites went up and wept before the Lord until evening and asked of the Lord, Shall we go up again to battle against our brethren the Benjamites? And the Lord said, Go up against them." 
Judges20:24 So the Israelites came near against the Benjamites the second day. 
Judges20:25 And Benjamin went forth out of Gibeah against them the second day and felled to the ground the Israelites again, 18,000 men, all of whom were swordsmen." 
Judges20:26 Then all the Israelites, the whole army, went up and came to the house of God [Bethel] and wept; and they sat there before the Lord and fasted that day until evening and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord." 
Judges20:27 And the Israelites inquired of the Lord,for the ark of the covenant of God was there [at Bethel] in those days," 
Judges20:28 And Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, ministered before it in those days,saying, Shall we yet again go out to battle against our brethren the Benjamites or shall we quit? And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I will deliver them into your hand." 
Judges20:29 So Israel set men in ambush round about Gibeah. 
Judges20:30 And the Israelites went up against the Benjamites on the third day and set themselves in array against Gibeah as at other times. 
Judges20:31 And the Benjamites went out against their army and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite and kill some of the people as at other times, in the highways, one of which goes up to Bethel and the other to Gibeah, and in the open country,about thirty men of Israel." 
Judges20:32 And the Benjamites said, They are routed before us as at first. But the Israelites said, Let us flee and draw them from the city to the highways." 
Judges20:33 And all the men of Israel rose out of their places and set themselves in array at Baal-tamar, and the men of Israel in ambush rushed out of their place in the meadow of Geba." 
Judges20:34 And there came against Gibeah 10,000 chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was hard; but the Benjamites did not know disaster was close upon them." 
Judges20:35 And the Lord overcame Benjamin before Israel, and the Israelites destroyed of the Benjamites that day 25,100 men, all of whom were swordsmen." 
Judges20:36 So the Benjamites saw that they were defeated. The men of Israel gave ground to the Benjamites, because they trusted in the men in ambush whom they had set against Gibeah." 
Judges20:37 And the men in ambush quickly rushed upon Gibeah, and the liers-in-wait moved out and smote all the city with the sword." 
Judges20:38 Now the appointed signal between the men of Israel and the men in ambush was that when they made a great cloud of smoke arise from the city," 
Judges20:39 The men of Israel should all turn back in battle. Now Benjamin had begun to smite and kill some of the men of Israel, about thirty persons. They said, Surely they are falling before us as in the first battle." 
Judges20:40 But when the [signal] cloud began to rise out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and behold, the whole of the city went up in smoke to the heavens." 
Judges20:41 When the men of Israel turned back again, the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they saw that disaster had come upon them." 
Judges20:42 Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel and fled toward the wilderness, but the battle followed close behind and overtook them; and the inhabitants of the cities destroyed those [Benjamites] who came through them in their midst." 
Judges20:43 They surrounded the Benjamites, pursued them, and overtook and trod them down at their resting-place as far as opposite Gibeah toward the east." 
Judges20:44 And there fell 18,000 men of Benjamin, all of them men of valor." 
Judges20:45 And [the Benjamites] turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and Israel picked off on the highways 5,000 men of them; they pursued hard after them to Gidom and slew 2,000 more of them." 
Judges20:46 So that all of Benjamin who fell that day were 25,000 men who drew the sword, all of them men of valor." 
Judges20:47 But 600 men turned and fled to the wilderness to the rock Rimmon and remained at the rock Rimmon four months. 
Judges20:48 And the men of Israel turned back against the Benjamites and smote them with the sword, men and beasts and all that they found. Also they set on fire all the towns to which they came." 
Judges21:1 NOW THE men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, None of us shall give his daughter in marriage to Benjamin." 
Judges21:2 And the Israelites came to the house of God [Bethel] and sat there until evening before God and lifted up their voices and wept bitterly. [Judg. 20:27.] 
Judges21:3 And they said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why has this come to pass in Israel, that there should be today one tribe lacking in Israel?" 
Judges21:4 And next morning the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings." 
Judges21:5 And the Israelites said, Which among all the tribes of Israel did not come up with the assembly to the Lord? For they had taken a great oath concerning him who did not come up to the Lord to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely die." 
Judges21:6 And the Israelites changed their purpose [and had compassion] for the Benjamites their kinsmen and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel today." 
Judges21:7 What shall we do for wives for those who are left, seeing we have sworn by the Lord that we will not give them our daughters as wives?" 
Judges21:8 And they said, Which one is there of the tribes of Israel that did not come up to Mizpah to the Lord? And behold, no one had come to the camp from Jabesh-gilead, to the assembly." 
Judges21:9 For when the people were mustered, behold, not one of the citizens of Jabesh-gilead was there." 
Judges21:10 And the congregation sent there 12,000 of the bravest men, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, also the women and the little ones." 
Judges21:11 And this is what you shall do; utterly destroy every male and every woman who is not a virgin. 
Judges21:12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead 400 young virgins, who had known no man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan." 
Judges21:13 And the whole congregation sent word to the Benjamites who were at the rock of Rimmon and invited them to be friendly with them. 
Judges21:14 And Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead; and yet there were not enough for them." 
Judges21:15 And the people had compassion on Benjamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel." 
Judges21:16 Then the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do for wives for those who are left, since the women of Benjamin are destroyed?" 
Judges21:17 And they said, There must be an inheritance for the survivors of Benjamin, so that a tribe shall not be wiped out of Israel." 
Judges21:18 But we cannot give them wives of our daughters, for the Israelites have sworn, Cursed be he who gives a wife to Benjamin." 
Judges21:19 So they said, Behold, there is the yearly feast of the Lord at Shiloh, which is north of Bethel, on the east of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem and south of Lebonah." 
Judges21:20 So they commanded the Benjamites, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards," 
Judges21:21 And watch; if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards and catch every man his wife from the daughters of Shiloh and go to the land of Benjamin." 
Judges21:22 And when their fathers or their brothers come to us to complain, we will say to them, Grant them graciously unto us, because we did not reserve a wife for each of them in battle, neither did you give wives to them, for that would have made you guilty [of breaking your oath]." 
Judges21:23 And the Benjamites did so and took wives, according to their number, from the dancers whom they carried off; then they went and returned to their inheritance and repaired the towns and dwelt in them." 
Judges21:24 And the Israelites left there then, every man to his tribe and family, and they went out from there every man to his inheritance." 
Judges21:25 In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his own eyes. 
Ruth1:1 IN THE days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem of Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, his wife, and his two sons." 
Ruth1:2 The man's name was Elimelech and his wife's name was Naomi and his two sons were named Mahlon [invalid] and Chilion [pining]; they were Ephrathites from Bethlehem of Judah. They went to the country of Moab and continued there. 
Ruth1:3 But Elimelech, who Naomi's husband, died, and she was left with her two sons." 
Ruth1:4 And they took wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth. They dwelt there about ten years; 
Ruth1:5 And Mahlon and Chilion died also, both of them, so the woman was bereft of her two sons and her husband." 
Ruth1:6 Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in Moab how the Lord had visited His people in giving them food." 
Ruth1:7 So she left the place where she was, her two daughters-in-law with her, and they started on the way back to Judah." 
Ruth1:8 But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead and with me." 
Ruth1:9 The Lord grant that you may find a home and rest, each in the house of her husband! Then she kissed them and they wept aloud." 
Ruth1:10 And they said to her, No, we will return with you to your people." 
Ruth1:11 But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that may become your husbands?" 
Ruth1:12 Turn back, my daughters, go; for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband tonight and should bear sons," 
Ruth1:13 Would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my daughters; it is far more bitter for me than for you that the hand of the Lord is gone out against me." 
Ruth1:14 Then they wept aloud again; and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law [good-bye], but Ruth clung to her." 
Ruth1:15 And Naomi said, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods; return after your sister-in-law." 
Ruth1:16 And Ruth said, Urge me not to leave you or to turn back from following you; for where you go I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my people and your God my God." 
Ruth1:17 Where you die I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but death parts me from you." 
Ruth1:18 When Naomi saw that Ruth was determined to go with her, she said no more." 
Ruth1:19 So they both went on until they came to Bethlehem. And when they arrived in Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred about them, and said, Is this Naomi?" 
Ruth1:20 And she said to them, Call me not Naomi [pleasant]; call me Mara [bitter], for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me." 
Ruth1:21 I went out full, but the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why call me Naomi, since the Lord has testified against me, and the Almighty has afflicted me?" 
Ruth1:22 So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned from the country of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest." 
Ruth2:1 NOW NAOMI had a kinsman of her husband's, a man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech, whose name was Boaz." 
Ruth2:2 And Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, Let me go to the field and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose sight I shall find favor. Naomi said to her, Go, my daughter." 
Ruth2:3 And [Ruth] went and gleaned in a field after the reapers; and she happened to stop at the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech." 
Ruth2:4 And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to the reapers, The Lord be with you! And they answered him, The Lord bless you!" 
Ruth2:5 Then Boaz said to his servant who was set over the reapers, Whose maiden is this?" 
Ruth2:6 And the servant set over the reapers answered, She is the Moabitish girl who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab." 
Ruth2:7 And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and has continued from early morning until now, except when she rested a little in the house." 
Ruth2:8 Then Boaz said to Ruth, Listen, my daughter, do not go to glean in another field or leave this one, but stay here close by my maidens." 
Ruth2:9 Watch which field they reap, and follow them. Have I not charged the young men not to molest you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink what the young men have drawn." 
Ruth2:10 Then she fell on her face, bowing to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes that you should notice me, when I am a foreigner?" 
Ruth2:11 And Boaz said to her, I have been made fully aware of all you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, and how you have left your father and mother and the land of your birth and have come to a people unknown to you before." 
Ruth2:12 The Lord recompense you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel, under Whose wings you have come to take refuge!" 
Ruth2:13 Then she said, Let me find favor in your sight, my lord. For you have comforted me and have spoken to the heart of your maidservant, though I am not as one of your maidservants." 
Ruth2:14 And at mealtime Boaz said to her, Come here and eat of the bread and dip your morsel in the sour wine [mixed with oil]. And she sat beside the reapers; and he passed her some parched grain, and she ate until she was satisfied and she had some left [for Naomi]." 
Ruth2:15 And when she got up to glean, Boaz ordered his young men, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and do not reproach her." 
Ruth2:16 And let fall some handfuls for her on purpose and let them lie there for her to glean, and do not rebuke her." 
Ruth2:17 So she gleaned in the field until evening. Then she beat out what she had gleaned. It was about an ephah of barley. 
Ruth2:18 And she took it up and went into the town; she showed her mother-in-law what she had gleaned, and she also brought forth and gave her the food she had reserved after she was satisfied." 
Ruth2:19 And her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned today? Where did you work? Blessed be the man who noticed you. So [Ruth] told [her], The name of him with whom I worked today is Boaz." 
Ruth2:20 And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not ceased his kindness to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said to her, The man is a near relative of ours, one who has the right to redeem us. [Lev. 25:25.]" 
Ruth2:21 And Ruth the Moabitess said, He said to me also, Stay close to my young men until they have harvested my entire crop." 
Ruth2:22 And Naomi said to Ruth, It is good, my daughter, for you to go out with his maidens, lest in any other field you be molested." 
Ruth2:23 So she kept close to the maidens of Boaz, gleaning until the end of the barley and wheat harvests. And she lived with her mother-in-law." 
Ruth3:1 THEN NAOMI her mother-in-law said to Ruth, My daughter, shall I not seek rest or a home for you, that you may prosper?" 
Ruth3:2 And now is not Boaz, with whose maidens you were, our relative? See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor." 
Ruth3:3 Wash and anoint yourself therefore, and put on your best clothes and go down to the threshing floor, but do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking." 
Ruth3:4 But when he lies down, notice the place where he lies; then go and uncover his feet and lie down. And he will tell you what to do." 
Ruth3:5 And Ruth said to her, All that you say to me I will do." 
Ruth3:6 So she went down to the threshing floor and did just as her mother-in-law had told her. 
Ruth3:7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. Then [Ruth] came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down." 
Ruth3:8 At midnight the man was startled, and he turned over, and behold, a woman lay at his feet!" 
Ruth3:9 And he said, Who are you? And she answered, I am Ruth your maidservant. Spread your wing [of protection] over your maidservant, for you are a next of kin." 
Ruth3:10 And he said, Blessed be you of the Lord, my daughter. For you have made this last loving-kindness greater than the former, for you have not gone after young men, whether poor or rich." 
Ruth3:11 And now, my daughter, fear not. I will do for you all you require, for all my people in the city know that you are a woman of strength (worth, bravery, capability)." 
Ruth3:12 It is true that I am your near kinsman; however, there is a kinsman nearer than I." 
Ruth3:13 Remain tonight, and in the morning if he will perform for you the part of a kinsman, good; let him do it. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman for you, then, as the Lord lives, I will do the part of a kinsman for you. Lie down until the morning." 
Ruth3:14 And she lay at his feet until the morning, but arose before one could recognize another; for he said, Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor." 
Ruth3:15 Also he said, Bring the mantle you are wearing and hold it. So [Ruth] held it, and he measured out six measures of barley and laid it on her. And she went into the town." 
Ruth3:16 And when she came home, her mother-in-law said, How have you fared, my daughter? And Ruth told her all that the man had done for her." 
Ruth3:17 And she said, He gave me these six measures of barley, for he said to me, Do not go empty-handed to your mother-in-law." 
Ruth3:18 Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until you learn how the matter turns out; for the man will not rest until he finishes the matter today." 
Ruth4:1 THEN BOAZ went up to the city's gate and sat down there, and behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz had spoken came by. He said to him, Ho! Turn aside and sit down here. So he turned aside and sat down." 
Ruth4:2 And Boaz took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. And they sat down." 
Ruth4:3 And he said to the kinsman, Naomi, who has returned from the country of Moab, has sold the parcel of land which belonged to our brother Elimelech." 
Ruth4:4 And I thought to let you hear of it, saying, Buy it in the presence of those sitting here and before the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it; but if you will not redeem it, then say so, that I may know; for there is no one besides you to redeem it, and I am [next of kin] after you. And he said, I will redeem it." 
Ruth4:5 Then Boaz said, The day you buy the field of Naomi, you must buy also Ruth the Moabitess, the widow of the dead man, to restore the name of the dead to his inheritance." 
Ruth4:6 And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest [by marrying a Moabitess] I endanger my own inheritance. Take my right of redemption yourself, for I cannot redeem it. [Deut. 23:3, 4.]" 
Ruth4:7 Now formerly in Israel this was the custom concerning redeeming and exchanging. To confirm a transaction, a man pulled off his sandal and gave it to the other. This was the way of attesting in Israel." 
Ruth4:8 Therefore, when the kinsman said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself, he pulled off his sandal." 
Ruth4:9 And Boaz said to the elders and to all the people, You are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was Elimelech's and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's from the hand of Naomi." 
Ruth4:10 Also Ruth the Moabitess, the widow of Mahlon, I have bought to be my wife to restore the name of the dead to his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from the gate of his birthplace. You are witnesses this day." 
Ruth4:11 And all the people at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, the two who built the household of Israel. May you do worthily and get wealth (power) in Ephratah and be famous in Bethlehem." 
Ruth4:12 And let your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring which the Lord will give you by this young woman." 
Ruth4:13 So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. And he went in to her, and the Lord caused her to conceive, and she bore a son." 
Ruth4:14 And the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, Who has not left you this day without a close kinsman, and may his name be famous in Israel." 
Ruth4:15 And may he be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher and supporter in your old age, for your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is better to you than seven sons, has borne him." 
Ruth4:16 Then Naomi took the child and laid him in her bosom and became his nurse. 
Ruth4:17 And her neighbor women gave him a name, saying, A son is born to Naomi. They named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David [the ancestor of Jesus Christ]." 
Ruth4:18 Now these are the descendants of Perez: Perez was the father of Hezron," 
Ruth4:19 Hezron of Ram, Ram of Amminadab," 
Ruth4:20 Amminadab of Nahshon, Nahshon of Salmon," 
Ruth4:21 Salmon of Boaz, Boaz of Obed," 
Ruth4:22 Obed of Jesse, and Jesse of David [the ancestor of Jesus Christ]." 
1Samuel1:1 THERE WAS a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill country of Ephraim, named Elkanah son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite." 
1Samuel1:2 He had two wives, one named Hannah and the other named Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah had none." 
1Samuel1:3 This man went from his city year by year to worship and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts at Shiloh, where Hophni and Phinehas, the two sons of Eli, were the Lord's priests." 
1Samuel1:4 When the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he would give to Peninnah his wife and all her sons and daughters portions [of the sacrificial meat]." 
1Samuel1:5 But to Hannah he gave a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had given her no children." 
1Samuel1:6 [This embarrassed and grieved Hannah] and her rival provoked her greatly to vex her, because the Lord had left her childless." 
1Samuel1:7 So it was year after year; whenever Hannah went up to the Lord's house, Peninnah provoked her, so she wept and did not eat." 
1Samuel1:8 Then Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, why do you cry? And why do you not eat? And why are you grieving? Am I not more to you than ten sons?" 
1Samuel1:9 So Hannah rose after they had eaten and drunk in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on his seat beside a post of the temple (tent) of the Lord. 
1Samuel1:10 And [Hannah] was in distress of soul, praying to the Lord and weeping bitterly." 
1Samuel1:11 She vowed, saying, O Lord of hosts, if You will indeed look on the affliction of Your handmaid and [earnestly] remember, and not forget Your handmaid but will give me a son, I will give him to the Lord all his life; no razor shall touch his head." 
1Samuel1:12 And as she continued praying before the Lord, Eli noticed her mouth." 
1Samuel1:13 Hannah was speaking in her heart; only her lips moved but her voice was not heard. So Eli thought she was drunk. 
1Samuel1:14 Eli said to her, How long will you be intoxicated? Put wine away from you." 
1Samuel1:15 But Hannah answered, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I was pouring out my soul before the Lord. [Gen. 19:34.]" 
1Samuel1:16 Regard not your handmaid as a wicked woman; for out of my great complaint and bitter provocation I have been speaking. 
1Samuel1:17 Then Eli said, Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant your petition which you have asked of Him." 
1Samuel1:18 Hannah said, Let your handmaid find grace in your sight. So [she] went her way and ate, her countenance no longer sad." 
1Samuel1:19 The family rose early the next morning, worshiped before the Lord, and returned to their home in Ramah. Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her." 
1Samuel1:20 Hannah became pregnant and in due time bore a son and named him Samuel [heard of God], Because, she said, I have asked him of the Lord." 
1Samuel1:21 And Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and pay his vow. 
1Samuel1:22 But Hannah did not go, for she said to her husband, I will not go until the child is weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before the Lord and remain there as long as he lives." 
1Samuel1:23 Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what seems best to you. Wait until you have weaned him; only may the Lord establish His word. So Hannah remained and nursed her son until she weaned him." 
1Samuel1:24 When she had weaned him, she took him with her, with a three-year-old bull, an ephah of flour, and a skin bottle of wine [to pour over the burnt offering for a sweet odor], and brought Samuel to the Lord's house in Shiloh. The child was growing." 
1Samuel1:25 Then they slew the bull, and brought the child to Eli." 
1Samuel1:26 Hannah said, Oh, my lord! As your soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood by you here praying to the Lord." 
1Samuel1:27 For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted my petition made to Him." 
1Samuel1:28 Therefore I have given him to the Lord; as long as he lives he is given to the Lord. And they worshiped the Lord there. 
1Samuel2:1 HANNAH PRAYED, and said, My heart exults and triumphs in the Lord; my horn (my strength) is lifted up in the Lord. My mouth is no longer silent, for it is opened wide over my enemies, because I rejoice in Your salvation." 
1Samuel2:2 There is none holy like the Lord, there is none besides You; there is no Rock like our God." 
1Samuel2:3 Talk no more so very proudly; let not arrogance go forth from your mouth, for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by Him actions are weighed." 
1Samuel2:4 The bows of the mighty are broken, and those who stumbled are girded with strength." 
1Samuel2:5 Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger. The barren has borne seven, but she who has many children languishes and is forlorn." 
1Samuel2:6 The Lord slays and makes alive; He brings down to Sheol and raises up. 
1Samuel2:7 The Lord makes poor and makes rich; He brings low and He lifts up. 
1Samuel2:8 He raises up the poor out of the dust and lifts up the needy from the ash heap, to make them sit with nobles and inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and He has set the world upon them." 
1Samuel2:9 He will guard the feet of His godly ones, but the wicked shall be silenced and perish in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail." 
1Samuel2:10 The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces; against them will He thunder in heaven. The Lord will judge [all peoples] to the ends of the earth; and He will give strength to His king (King) and exalt the power of His anointed (Anointed His Christ). [Luke 1:46.] 
1Samuel2:11 Elkanah and his wife Hannah returned to Ramah to his house. But the child ministered to the Lord before Eli the priest. 
1Samuel2:12 The sons of Eli were base and worthless; they did not know or regard the Lord. 
1Samuel2:13 And the custom of the priests with the people was this: when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh was boiling with a fleshhook of three prongs in his hand;" 
1Samuel2:14 And he thrust it into the pan or kettle or caldron or pot; all that the fleshhook brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh with all the Israelites who came there. 
1Samuel2:15 Also, before they burned the fat, the priest's servant came and said to the man who sacrificed, Give the priest meat to roast, for he will not accept boiled meat from you, but raw." 
1Samuel2:16 And if the man said to him, Let them burn the fat first, and then you may take as much as you want, the priest's servant would say, No! Give it to me now or I will take it by force." 
1Samuel2:17 So the sin of the [two] young men was very great before the Lord, for they despised the offering of the Lord." 
1Samuel2:18 But Samuel ministered before the Lord, a child girded with a linen ephod." 
1Samuel2:19 Moreover, his mother made him a little robe and brought it to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice." 
1Samuel2:20 And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife and say, May the Lord give you children by this woman for the gift she asked for and gave to the Lord. Then they would go to their own home." 
1Samuel2:21 And the Lord visited Hannah, so that she bore three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before the Lord." 
1Samuel2:22 Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons did to all Israel and how they lay with the women who served at the door of the Tent of Meeting." 
1Samuel2:23 And he said to them, Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people." 
1Samuel2:24 No, my sons; it is no good report which I hear the Lord's people spreading abroad." 
1Samuel2:25 If one man wrongs another, God will mediate for him; but if a man wrongs the Lord, who shall intercede for him? Yet they did not listen to their father, for it was the Lord's will to slay them." 
1Samuel2:26 Now the boy Samuel grew and was in favor both with the Lord and with men. 
1Samuel2:27 A man of God came to Eli and said to him, Thus has the Lord said: I plainly revealed Myself to the house of your father [forefather Aaron] when they were in Egypt in bondage to Pharaoh's house." 
1Samuel2:28 Moreover, I selected him out of all the tribes of Israel to be My priest, to offer on My altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before Me. And I gave [from then on] to the house of your father [forefather] all the offerings of the Israelites made by fire." 
1Samuel2:29 Why then do you kick [trample upon, treat with contempt] My sacrifice and My offering which I commanded, and honor your sons above Me by fattening yourselves upon the choicest part of every offering of My people Israel?" 
1Samuel2:30 Therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, says, I did promise that your house and that of your father [forefather Aaron] should go in and out before Me forever. But now the Lord says, Be it far from Me. For those who honor Me I will honor, and those who despise Me shall be lightly esteemed." 
1Samuel2:31 Behold, the time is coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your own father's house, that there shall not be an old man in your house." 
1Samuel2:32 And you shall behold the distress of My house, even in all the prosperity which God will give Israel, and there shall not be an old man in your house forever." 
1Samuel2:33 Yet I will not cut off from My altar every man of yours; some shall survive to weep and mourn [over the family's ruin], but all the increase of your house shall die in their best years. [I Sam. 22:17-20.]" 
1Samuel2:34 And what befalls your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, shall be a sign to you,in one day they both shall die. [Fulfilled in I Sam. 4:17, 18.]" 
1Samuel2:35 And I will raise up for Myself a faithful priest (Priest), who shall do according to what is in My heart and mind. And I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before My anointed (Anointed) forever. [I Sam. 2:10.]" 
1Samuel2:36 Everyone who is left in your house shall come crouching to him for a piece of silver and a bit of bread and say, Put me, I pray you, into a priest's office so I may have a piece of bread." 
1Samuel3:1 NOW THE boy Samuel ministered to the Lord before Eli. The word of the Lord was rare and precious in those days; there was no frequent or widely spread vision. 
1Samuel3:2 At that time Eli, whose eyesight had dimmed so that he could not see, was lying down in his own place." 
1Samuel3:3 The lamp of God had not yet gone out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was lying down" 
1Samuel3:4 When the Lord called, Samuel! And he answered, Here I am." 
1Samuel3:5 He ran to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. Eli said, I did not call you; lie down again. So he went and lay down." 
1Samuel3:6 And the Lord called again, Samuel! And Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here am I; you did call me. Eli answered, I did not call, my son; lie down again." 
1Samuel3:7 Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, and the word of the Lord was not yet revealed to him." 
1Samuel3:8 And the Lord called Samuel the third time. And he went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you did call me. Then Eli perceived that the Lord was calling the boy." 
1Samuel3:9 So Eli said to Samuel, Go, lie down. And if He calls you, you shall say, Speak, Lord, for Your servant is listening. So Samuel went and lay down in his place." 
1Samuel3:10 And the Lord came and stood and called as at other times, Samuel! Samuel! Then Samuel answered, Speak, Lord, for Your servant is listening." 
1Samuel3:11 The Lord told Samuel, Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel at which both ears of all who hear it shall tingle." 
1Samuel3:12 On that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from beginning to end." 
1Samuel3:13 And I [now] announce to him that I will judge and punish his house forever for the iniquity of which he knew, for his sons were bringing a curse upon themselves [blaspheming God], and he did not restrain them." 
1Samuel3:14 Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be atoned for or purged with sacrifice or offering forever. 
1Samuel3:15 Samuel lay until morning; then he opened the doors of the Lord's house. And [he] was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. 
1Samuel3:16 But Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here I am." 
1Samuel3:17 Eli said, What is it He told you? Pray do not hide it from me. May God do so to you, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all that He said to you." 
1Samuel3:18 And Samuel told him everything, hiding nothing. And Eli said, It is the Lord; let Him do what seems good to Him." 
1Samuel3:19 Samuel grew; the Lord was with him and let none of his words fall to the ground. [Josh. 23:14.] 
1Samuel3:20 And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord. 
1Samuel3:21 And the Lord continued to appear in Shiloh, for the Lord revealed Himself to Samuel in Shiloh through the word of the Lord." 
1Samuel4:1 AND THE word of [the Lord through] Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to battle against the Philistines and encamped beside Ebenezer; the Philistines encamped at Aphek. 
1Samuel4:2 The Philistines drew up against Israel, and when the battle spread, Israel was smitten by the Philistines, who slew about 4,000 men on the battlefield." 
1Samuel4:3 When the troops had come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Why has the Lord smitten us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord here from Shiloh, that He may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies." 
1Samuel4:4 So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the ark of the covenant of the Lord of hosts, Who dwells above the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were with the ark of the covenant of God." 
1Samuel4:5 And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth resounded." 
1Samuel4:6 And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What does this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean? When they understood that the ark of the Lord had come into the camp," 
1Samuel4:7 The Philistines were afraid, for they said, God has come into the camp. And they said, Woe to us! For such a thing has not happened before." 
1Samuel4:8 Woe to us! Who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every kind of plague in the wilderness. 
1Samuel4:9 Be strong, and acquit yourselves like men, O you Philistines, that you may not become servants to the Hebrews, as they have been to you; behave yourselves like men, and fight!" 
1Samuel4:10 And the Philistines fought; Israel was smitten and they fled every man to his own home. There was a very great slaughter; for 30,000 foot soldiers of Israel fell." 
1Samuel4:11 And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain. [Foretold in I Sam. 2:34.]" 
1Samuel4:12 Now a man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh that day, with his clothes torn and earth on his head." 
1Samuel4:13 When he arrived, Eli was sitting by the road watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. When the man told the news in the city, all the city [people] cried out." 
1Samuel4:14 When Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What is this uproar? And the man came hastily and told Eli." 
1Samuel4:15 Now Eli was 98 years old; his eyes were dim so that he could not see. 
1Samuel4:16 The man said to Eli, I have come from the battle; I fled from the battle today. Eli said, How did it go, my son?" 
1Samuel4:17 The messenger replied, Israel fled before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter among the people. Also your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is captured." 
1Samuel4:18 And when he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell off the seat backward by the side of the gate. His neck was broken and he died, for he was an old man and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years." 
1Samuel4:19 Now his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, about to be delivered. And when she heard that the ark of God was captured and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and gave birth, for her pains came upon her." 
1Samuel4:20 And about the time of her death the women attending her said to her, Fear not, for you have borne a son. But she did not answer or notice." 
1Samuel4:21 And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel!,because the ark of God had been captured and because of her father-in-law and her husband." 
1Samuel4:22 She said, The glory is gone from Israel, for the ark of God has been taken." 
1Samuel5:1 THE PHILISTINES brought the ark of God from Ebenezer to Ashdod. 
1Samuel5:2 They took the ark of God into the house of Dagon and set it beside Dagon [their idol]. 
1Samuel5:3 When they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon had fallen upon his face on the ground before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and set him in his place again." 
1Samuel5:4 But when they arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had again fallen on his face on the ground before the ark of the Lord, and [his] head and both the palms of his hands were lying cut off on the threshold; only the trunk of Dagon was left him." 
1Samuel5:5 This is the reason neither the priests of Dagon nor any who come into Dagon's house tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to this day. 
1Samuel5:6 But the hand of the Lord was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and He caused [mice to spring up and there was] very deadly destruction and He smote the people with [very painful] tumors or boils, both Ashdod and its territory." 
1Samuel5:7 When the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for His hand is heavy on us and on Dagon our god." 
1Samuel5:8 So they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines to them and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? They answered, Let [it] be carried around to Gath. So they carried the ark of the God of Israel there." 
1Samuel5:9 But after they had carried it to Gath, the hand of the Lord was against the city, causing an exceedingly great panic [at the deaths from the plague], for He afflicted the people of the city, both small and great, and tumors or boils broke out on them." 
1Samuel5:10 So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And as [it] came, the people of Ekron cried out, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us to slay us and our people!" 
1Samuel5:11 So they sent and assembled all the lords of the Philistines and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel; let it return to its own place, that it may not slay us and our people. For there was a deadly panic throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there." 
1Samuel5:12 The men who had not died were stricken with very painful tumors or boils, and the cry of the city went up to heaven." 
1Samuel6:1 THE ARK of the Lord was in the country of the Philistines seven months. 
1Samuel6:2 And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do to the ark of the Lord? Tell us with what we shall send it to its place." 
1Samuel6:3 And they said, If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty, but at least return to Him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why His hand is not removed [and healing granted you]." 
1Samuel6:4 Then they said, What shall be the guilt offering which we shall return to Him? They answered, Five golden tumors and five golden mice, according to the number of the Philistine lords, for one plague was on you all, even on your lords." 
1Samuel6:5 Therefore you must make images of your tumors and of your mice that destroy the land, and give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps He will lighten His hand from off you and your gods and your land." 
1Samuel6:6 Why then do you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When He had done wonders and made a mock of them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?" 
1Samuel6:7 Now then, make and prepare a new cart and two milch cows on which no yoke has ever come; and yoke the cows to the cart, but take their calves home, away from them." 
1Samuel6:8 And take the ark of the Lord and place it upon the cart, and put in a box at its side the figures of gold which you are returning to Him as a guilt offering. Then send it away and let it be gone." 
1Samuel6:9 And watch. If it goes up by the way of its own land to Beth-shemesh, then He has done us this great evil. But if not, then we shall know that it was not His hand that struck us; it happened to us by chance." 
1Samuel6:10 And the men did so, and took two milch cows and yoked them to the cart and shut up their calves at home." 
1Samuel6:11 And they put the ark of the Lord on the cart and along with it the box with the mice of gold and the images of their tumors. 
1Samuel6:12 And the cows went straight toward Beth-shemesh along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right or the left. And the Philistine lords followed them as far as the border of Beth-shemesh." 
1Samuel6:13 Now the men of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley, and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it." 
1Samuel6:14 The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh and stopped there. A great stone was there; and the men split up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. 
1Samuel6:14 The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh and stopped there. A great stone was there; and the men split up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. 
1Samuel6:15 The Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the box beside it in which were the figures of gold and put them upon the great stone. And the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and made sacrifices that day to the Lord. 
1Samuel6:16 When the five lords of the Philistines saw it, they returned that day to Ekron." 
1Samuel6:17 And these are the tumors of gold which the Philistines returned for a guilt offering to the Lord: one each for Ashdod, Gaza, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron;" 
1Samuel6:18 Also the mice of gold was according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities and country villages. The great stone, on which they set the ark of the Lord, remains as a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh." 
1Samuel6:18 Also the mice of gold was according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities and country villages. The great stone, on which they set the ark of the Lord, remains as a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh." 
1Samuel6:19 And the Lord slew some of the men of Beth-shemesh because they had looked into the ark of the Lord; He slew seventy men of them, and the people mourned because the Lord had made a great slaughter among them." 
1Samuel6:20 And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? And to whom shall He go away from us?" 
1Samuel6:21 And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have returned the ark of the Lord. Come down and take it up to you." 
1Samuel7:1 SO THE men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the Lord and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill and consecrated Eleazar his son to have charge of the ark of the Lord. 
1Samuel7:2 And the ark remained in Kiriath-jearim a very long time [nearly 100 years, through Samuel's entire judgeship, Saul's reign, and well into David's, when it was brought to Jerusalem]. For it was twenty years before all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. [I Chron. 13:5-7.]" 
1Samuel7:3 Then Samuel said to all the house of Israel, If you are returning to the Lord with all your hearts, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth [female deities] from among you and direct your hearts to the Lord and serve Him only, and He will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines." 
1Samuel7:4 So the Israelites put away the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and served the Lord only." 
1Samuel7:5 Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah and I will pray to the Lord for you." 
1Samuel7:6 So they gathered at Mizpah and drew water and poured it out before the Lord and fasted on that day and said there, We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the Israelites at Mizpah." 
1Samuel7:7 Now when the Philistines heard that the Israelites had gathered at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the Israelites heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines." 
1Samuel7:8 And the Israelites said to Samuel, Do not cease to cry to the Lord our God for us, that He may save us from the hand of the Philistines." 
1Samuel7:9 So Samuel took a sucking lamb and offered it as a whole burnt offering to the Lord; and Samuel cried to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord answered him." 
1Samuel7:10 As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to attack Israel. But the Lord thundered with a great voice that day against the Philistines and threw them into confusion, and they were defeated before Israel." 
1Samuel7:11 And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and smote them as far as below Beth-car. 
1Samuel7:12 Then Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and he called the name of it Ebenezer [stone of help], saying, Heretofore the Lord has helped us." 
1Samuel7:13 So the Philistines were subdued and came no more into Israelite territory. And the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel. 
1Samuel7:14 The cities the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and Israel rescued [the cities'] territory from the Philistines. There was peace also between Israel and the Amorites." 
1Samuel7:15 And Samuel judged Israel all his days. 
1Samuel7:16 And he went from year to year on a circuit to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and was judge for Israel in all those places." 
1Samuel7:17 Then he would return to Ramah, for his home was there; there he judged Israel, and there he built an altar to the Lord." 
1Samuel8:1 WHEN SAMUEL was old, he made his sons judges over Israel." 
1Samuel8:2 Now the name of his firstborn was Joel and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba." 
1Samuel8:2 Now the name of his firstborn was Joel and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba." 
1Samuel8:3 His sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after gain, took bribes, and perverted justice." 
1Samuel8:4 All the elders of Israel assembled and came to Samuel at Ramah 
1Samuel8:5 And said to him, Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways; now appoint us a king to rule over us like all the other nations." 
1Samuel8:6 But it displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to govern us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord." 
1Samuel8:7 And the Lord said to Samuel, Hearken to the voice of the people in all they say to you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected Me, that I should not be King over them." 
1Samuel8:8 According to all the works which they have done since I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, forsaking Me and serving other gods, so they also do to you." 
1Samuel8:9 So listen now to their voice; only solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king who shall reign over them. 
1Samuel8:10 So Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who asked of him a king. 
1Samuel8:11 And he said, These will be the ways of the king who shall reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and to be his horsemen and to run before his chariots." 
1Samuel8:12 He will appoint them for himself to be commanders over thousands and over fifties, and some to plow his ground and to reap his harvest and to make his implements of war and equipment for his chariots." 
1Samuel8:13 He will take your daughters to be perfumers, cooks, and bakers." 
1Samuel8:14 He will take your fields, your vineyards, and your olive orchards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants." 
1Samuel8:15 He will take a tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants. 
1Samuel8:16 He will take your men and women servants and the best of your cattle and your donkeys and put them to his work. 
1Samuel8:17 He will take a tenth of your flocks, and you yourselves shall be his slaves." 
1Samuel8:18 In that day you will cry out because of your king you have chosen for yourselves, but the Lord will not hear you then." 
1Samuel8:19 Nevertheless, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel, and they said, No! We will have a king over us," 
1Samuel8:20 That we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may govern us and go out before us and fight our battles." 
1Samuel8:21 Samuel heard all the people's words and repeated them in the Lord's ears. 
1Samuel8:22 And the Lord said to Samuel, Hearken to their voice and appoint them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his city." 
1Samuel9:1 THERE WAS a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of wealth and valor." 
1Samuel9:2 Kish had a son named Saul, a choice young man and handsome; among all the Israelites there was not a man more handsome than he. He was a head taller than any of the people." 
1Samuel9:3 The donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. Kish said to Saul, Take a servant with you and go, look for the donkeys." 
1Samuel9:4 And they passed through the hill country of Ephraim and the land of Shalishah, but did not find them. Then they went through the land of Shaalim and the land of Benjamin, but did not find them." 
1Samuel9:5 And when they came to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant, Come, let us return, lest my father stop worrying about the donkeys and become concerned about us." 
1Samuel9:6 The servant said to him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, a man held in honor; all that he says surely comes true. Now let us go there. Perhaps he can show us where we should go." 
1Samuel9:7 Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what shall we bring the man? The bread in our sacks is gone, and there is no gift for the man of God. What have we?" 
1Samuel9:8 The servant replied, I have here a quarter of a shekel of silver. I will give that to the man of God to tell us our way," 
1Samuel9:9 (Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, let us go to the seer, for he that is now called a prophet was formerly called a seer.)" 
1Samuel9:10 Saul said to his servant, Well said; come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was." 
1Samuel9:11 As they went up the hill to the city, they met young maidens going out to draw water, and said to them, Is the seer here?" 
1Samuel9:12 They answered, He is; behold, he is just beyond you. Hurry, for he came today to the city because the people have a sacrifice today on the high place." 
1Samuel9:13 As you enter the city, you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat. The people will not eat until he comes to ask the blessing on the sacrifice. Afterward, those who are invited eat. So go on up, for about now you will find him." 
1Samuel9:14 So they went up to the city, and as they were entering, behold, Samuel came toward them, going up to the high place." 
1Samuel9:15 Now a day before Saul came, the Lord had revealed to Samuel in his ear," 
1Samuel9:16 Tomorrow about this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be leader over My people Israel; and he shall save them out of the hand of the Philistines. For I have looked upon the distress of My people, because their cry has come to Me." 
1Samuel9:17 When Samuel saw Saul, the Lord told him, There is the man of whom I told you. He shall have authority over My people." 
1Samuel9:18 Then Saul came near to Samuel in the gate and said, Tell me where is the seer's house?" 
1Samuel9:19 Samuel answered Saul, I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me today, and tomorrow I will let you go and will tell you all that is on your mind." 
1Samuel9:20 As for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not be thinking about them, for they are found. And for whom are all the desirable things of Israel? Are they not for you and for all your father's house?" 
1Samuel9:21 And Saul said, Am I not a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And is not my family the least of all the families of the clans of Benjamin? Why then do you speak this way to me?" 
1Samuel9:22 Then Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them into the guest room [at the high place] and had them sit in the chief place among the persons,about thirty of them,who were invited. [The other people feasted outside.] 
1Samuel9:23 And Samuel said to the cook, Bring the portion which I gave you, of which I said to you, Set it aside." 
1Samuel9:24 And the cook lifted high the shoulder and what was on it [indicating that it was the priest's honored portion] and set it before Saul. [Samuel] said, See what was reserved for you. Eat, for until the hour appointed it was kept for you, ever since I invited the people. So Saul ate that day with Samuel." 
1Samuel9:25 When they had come down from the high place into the city, Samuel conversed with Saul on the top of the house." 
1Samuel9:26 They arose early and about dawn Samuel called Saul [who was sleeping] on the top of the house, saying, Get up, that I may send you on your way. Saul arose, and both he and Samuel went out on the street." 
1Samuel9:27 And as they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us,and he passed on,but you stand still, first, that I may cause you to hear the word of God." 
1Samuel10:1 THEN SAMUEL took the vial of oil and poured it on Saul's head and kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be prince over His heritage Israel?" 
1Samuel10:2 When you have left me today, you will meet two men by Rachel's tomb in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah, and they will say to you, The donkeys you sought are found. And your father has quit caring about them and is anxious for you, asking, What shall I do about my son?" 
1Samuel10:3 Then you will go on from there and you will come to the oak of Tabor, and three men going up to God at Bethel will meet you there, one carrying three kids, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a skin bottle of wine." 
1Samuel10:4 They will greet you and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall accept from their hand." 
1Samuel10:5 After that you will come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is; and when you come to the city, you will meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with harp, tambourine, flute, and lyre before them, prophesying." 
1Samuel10:6 Then the Spirit of the Lord will come upon you mightily, and you will show yourself to be a prophet with them; and you will be turned into another man." 
1Samuel10:7 When these signs meet you, do whatever you find to be done, for God is with you." 
1Samuel10:8 You shall go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down to you to offer burnt offerings and to sacrifice peace offerings. You shall wait seven days until I come to you and show you what you shall do." 
1Samuel10:9 And when [Saul] had turned his back to leave Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these signs came to pass that day." 
1Samuel10:10 When they came to the hill [Gibeah], behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily upon him, and he spoke under divine inspiration among them." 
1Samuel10:11 And when all who knew Saul before saw that he spoke by inspiration among the [schooled] prophets, the people said one to another, What has come over [him, who is nobody but] the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?" 
1Samuel10:12 One from that same place answered, But who is the father of the others? So it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?" 
1Samuel10:13 When [Saul] had ended his inspired speaking, he went to the high place." 
1Samuel10:14 Saul's uncle said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? And Saul said, To look for the donkeys, and when we found them nowhere, we went to Samuel." 
1Samuel10:15 Saul's uncle said, Tell me, what did Samuel say to you?" 
1Samuel10:16 And Saul said to his uncle, He told us plainly that the donkeys were found. But of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel spoke he told him nothing." 
1Samuel10:17 And Samuel called the people together to the Lord at Mizpah 
1Samuel10:18 And said to the Israelites, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: It was I Who brought up Israel out of Egypt and delivered you out of the hands of the Egyptians and of all the kingdoms that oppressed you." 
1Samuel10:19 But you have this day rejected your God, Who Himself saves you from all your calamities and distresses; and you have said to Him, No! Set a king over us. So now present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands." 
1Samuel10:20 And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken [probably by lot]." 
1Samuel10:21 When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Matri was taken. And Saul son of Kish was taken. But when they looked for him, he could not be found." 
1Samuel10:22 Therefore they inquired of the Lord further, if the man would yet come back. And the Lord answered, Behold, he has hidden himself among the baggage. [Exod. 28:30.]" 
1Samuel10:23 They ran and brought him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was a head taller than any of them." 
1Samuel10:24 And Samuel said to all the people, Do you see him whom the Lord has chosen, that none like him is among all the people? And all the people shouted and said, Long live the king!" 
1Samuel10:25 Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom [defining the position of the king in relation to God and to the people], and wrote it in a book and laid it up before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, each one to his home." 
1Samuel10:26 Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a band of valiant men whose hearts God had touched. 
1Samuel10:27 But some worthless fellows said, How can this man save us? And they despised him and brought him no gift. But he held his peace and was as if deaf." 
1Samuel11:1 AND NAHASH the Ammonite went up and besieged Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a treaty with us, and we will serve you." 
1Samuel11:2 But Nahash the Ammonite told them, On this condition I will make a treaty with you, that I thrust out all your right eyes and thus lay disgrace on all Israel." 
1Samuel11:3 The elders of Jabesh said to Nahash, Give us seven days' time, that we may send messengers through all the territory of Israel. Then, if there is no man to save us, we will come out to you." 
1Samuel11:4 Then messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told the news in the ears of the people; and all the people wept aloud. 
1Samuel11:5 Now Saul came out of the field after the oxen, and [he] said, What ails the people that they are weeping? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh." 
1Samuel11:6 The Spirit of God came mightily upon Saul when he heard those tidings, and his anger was greatly kindled." 
1Samuel11:7 And he took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces and sent them throughout all the territory of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, Whoever does not come forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen! And terror from the Lord fell on the people, and they came out with one consent." 
1Samuel11:8 And he numbered them at Bezek, and the Israelites were 300,000 and the men of Judah 30,000." 
1Samuel11:9 The messengers who came were told, Say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you shall have help. The messengers came and reported to the men of Jabesh, and they were glad." 
1Samuel11:10 So the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do to us all that seems good to you." 
1Samuel11:11 The next day Saul put the men in three companies; and they came into the midst of the enemy's camp in the [darkness of the] morning watch and slew the Ammonites until midday; and the survivors were scattered, so that no two of them remained together." 
1Samuel11:12 The people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Shall Saul reign over us? Bring the men, that we may put them to death." 
1Samuel11:13 But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day, for today the Lord has brought deliverance to Israel." 
1Samuel11:14 Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal and there renew the kingdom." 
1Samuel11:15 All the people went to Gilgal and there they made Saul king before the Lord. And there they sacrificed peace offerings before the Lord, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly." 
1Samuel12:1 AND SAMUEL said to all Israel, I have listened to you in all that you have said to me and have made a king over you." 
1Samuel12:2 And now, behold, the king walks before you. And I am old and gray, and behold, my sons are with you. And I have walked before you from my childhood to this day." 
1Samuel12:3 Here I am; testify against me before the Lord and Saul His anointed. Whose ox or donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded or oppressed? Or from whose hand have I received any bribe to blind my eyes? Tell me and I will restore it to you. 
1Samuel12:4 And they said, You have not defrauded us or oppressed us or taken anything from any man's hand." 
1Samuel12:5 And Samuel said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and His anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. And they answered, He is witness." 
1Samuel12:6 And Samuel said to the people, It is the Lord Who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your fathers up out of Egypt." 
1Samuel12:7 Now present yourselves, that I may plead with you before the Lord concerning all the righteous acts of the Lord which He did for you and for your fathers." 
1Samuel12:8 When Jacob and his sons had come into Egypt [and the Egyptians oppressed them], and your fathers cried to the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place." 
1Samuel12:9 But when they forgot the Lord their God, He sold them into the hand of Sisera, commander of Hazor's army, and into the hands of the Philistines and of the king of Moab, and they fought those foes." 
1Samuel12:10 And they cried to the Lord, saying, We have sinned because we have forsaken the Lord and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth; but now deliver us from the hands of our enemies, and we will serve You." 
1Samuel12:11 And the Lord sent Jerubbaal and Barak and Jephthah and Samuel, and He delivered you out of the hands of your enemies on every side, and you dwelt safely." 
1Samuel12:12 But when you saw that Nahash king of the Ammonites came against you, you said to me, No! A king shall reign over us,when the Lord your God was your King!" 
1Samuel12:13 Now see the king whom you have chosen and for whom you have asked; behold, the Lord has set a king over you." 
1Samuel12:14 If you will revere and fear the Lord and serve Him and hearken to His voice and not rebel against His commandment, and if both you and your king will follow the Lord your God, it will be good!" 
1Samuel12:15 But if you will not hearken to the Lord's voice, but rebel against His commandment, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as it was against your fathers." 
1Samuel12:16 So stand still and see this great thing the Lord will do before your eyes now. 
1Samuel12:17 Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call to the Lord and He will send thunder and rain; then you shall know and see that your wickedness is great which you have done in the sight of the Lord in asking for a king for yourselves. 
1Samuel12:18 So Samuel called to the Lord, and He sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel." 
1Samuel12:19 And [they] all said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil,to ask for a king." 
1Samuel12:20 And Samuel said to the people, Fear not. You have indeed done all this evil; yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve Him with all your heart." 
1Samuel12:21 And turn not aside after vain and worthless things which cannot profit or deliver you, for they are empty and futile." 
1Samuel12:22 The Lord will not forsake His people for His great name's sake, for it has pleased Him to make you a people for Himself." 
1Samuel12:23 Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you; but I will instruct you in the good and right way." 
1Samuel12:24 Only fear the Lord and serve Him faithfully with all your heart; for consider how great are the things He has done for you. 
1Samuel12:25 But if you still do wickedly, both you and your king shall be swept away." 
1Samuel13:1 SAUL WAS [forty] years old when he began to reign; and when he had reigned two years over Israel," 
1Samuel13:2 Saul chose 3,000 men of Israel; 2,000 were with [him] in Michmash and the hill country of Bethel, and 1,000 with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the men he sent away, each one to his home." 
1Samuel13:3 Jonathan smote the Philistine garrison at Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear!" 
1Samuel13:4 All Israel heard that Saul had defeated the Philistine garrison and also that Israel had become an abomination to the Philistines. And the people were called out to join Saul at Gilgal. 
1Samuel13:5 And the Philistines gathered to fight with Israel, 30,000 chariots and 6,000 horsemen and troops like sand on the seashore in multitude. They came up and encamped at Michmash, east of Beth-aven." 
1Samuel13:6 When the men of Israel saw that they were in a tight situation,for their troops were hard pressed,they hid in caves, holes, rocks, tombs, and pits or cisterns." 
1Samuel13:7 Some Hebrews had gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling." 
1Samuel13:8 Saul waited seven days, according to the set time Samuel had appointed. But Samuel had not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattering from Saul." 
1Samuel13:9 So Saul said, Bring me the burnt offering and the peace offerings. And he offered the burnt offering [which he was forbidden to do]." 
1Samuel13:10 And just as he finished offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came! Saul went out to meet and greet him." 
1Samuel13:11 Samuel said, What have you done? Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattering from me, and that you did not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines were assembled at Michmash," 
1Samuel13:12 I thought, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication to the Lord. So I forced myself to offer a burnt offering." 
1Samuel13:13 And Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly! You have not kept the commandment of the Lord your God which He commanded you; for the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever;" 
1Samuel13:14 But now your kingdom shall not continue; the Lord has sought out [David] a man after His own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be prince and ruler over His people, because you have not kept what the Lord commanded you." 
1Samuel13:15 And Samuel went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were left with him, [only] about 600." 
1Samuel13:16 Saul and Jonathan his son and the people with them remained in Gibeah of Benjamin, but the Philistines encamped at Michmash." 
1Samuel13:17 And raiders came out of the Philistine camp in three companies; one company turned toward Ophrah, to the land of Shual," 
1Samuel13:18 Another turned toward Beth-horon, and another toward the border overlooking the Valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness." 
1Samuel13:19 Now there was no metal worker to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears." 
1Samuel13:20 But each of the Israelites had to go down to the Philistines to get his plowshare, mattock, axe, or sickle sharpened." 
1Samuel13:21 And the price for plowshares and mattocks was a pim, and a third of a shekel for axes and for setting goads [with resulting blunt edges on the sickles, mattocks, forks, axes, and goads.]" 
1Samuel13:22 So on the day of battle neither sword nor spear was found in the hand of any of the men who were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and Jonathan his son had them. 
1Samuel13:23 And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash. 
1Samuel14:1 ONE DAY Jonathan son of Saul said to his armor-bearer, Come, let us go over to the Philistine garrison on the other side. But he did not tell his father." 
1Samuel14:2 Saul was remaining in the outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree in Migron; and with him were about 600 men," 
1Samuel14:3 And Ahijah son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the Lord's priest in Shiloh, was wearing the ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan was gone." 
1Samuel14:4 Between the passes by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistine garrison there was a rocky crag on the one side and a rocky crag on the other side; one was named Bozez, and the other Seneh." 
1Samuel14:5 The one crag rose on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Geba." 
1Samuel14:6 And Jonathan said to his young armor-bearer, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised; it may be that the Lord will work for us. For there is nothing to prevent the Lord from saving by many or by few." 
1Samuel14:7 And his armor-bearer said to him, Do all that is in your mind; I am with you in whatever you think [best]." 
1Samuel14:8 Jonathan said, We will pass over to these men and we will let them see us." 
1Samuel14:9 If they say to us, Wait until we come to you, then we will stand still in our place and will not go up to them." 
1Samuel14:10 But if they say, Come up to us, we will go up, for the Lord has delivered them into our hand, and this will be our sign." 
1Samuel14:11 So both of them let the Philistine garrison see them. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves." 
1Samuel14:12 The garrison men said to Jonathan and his armor-bearer, Come up to us and we will show you a thing. Jonathan said to his armor-bearer, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them into Israel's hand." 
1Samuel14:13 Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet, his armor-bearer after him; and the enemy fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer killed them after him." 
1Samuel14:14 And that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armor-bearer made was about twenty men within about a half acre of land [which a yoke of oxen might plow]. 
1Samuel14:15 And there was trembling and panic in the [Philistine] camp, in the field, and among all the men; the garrison, and even the raiders trembled; the earth quaked, and it became a terror from God." 
1Samuel14:16 Saul's watchmen in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude melted away and went hither and thither." 
1Samuel14:17 Then Saul said to the men with him, Number and see who is gone from us. When they numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armor-bearer were missing." 
1Samuel14:18 Saul said to Ahijah, Bring here the ark of God,for at that time the ark of God was with the children of Israel." 
1Samuel14:19 While Saul talked to the priest, the tumult in the Philistine camp kept increasing. Then Saul said to the priest, Withdraw your hand." 
1Samuel14:20 Then Saul and all the people with him rallied and went into the battle, and behold, every [Philistine's] sword was against his fellow in wild confusion." 
1Samuel14:21 Moreover, the Hebrews who were with the Philistines before that time, who went up with them into the camp from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan." 
1Samuel14:22 Likewise, all the men of Israel who had hid themselves in the hill country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, they also went after them in hot pursuit in the battle." 
1Samuel14:23 So the Lord delivered Israel that day, and the battle passed beyond Beth-aven." 
1Samuel14:24 But the men of Israel were distressed that day, for Saul had caused them to take an oath, saying, Cursed be the man who eats any food before evening and until I have taken vengeance on my enemies. So none of the men tasted any food." 
1Samuel14:25 And all the people of the land came to a wood, and there was honey on the ground." 
1Samuel14:26 When the men entered the wood, behold, the honey was dripping, but no man tasted it, for the men feared the oath." 
1Samuel14:27 But Jonathan had not heard when his father charged the people with the oath. So he dipped the end of the rod in his hand into a honeycomb and put it to his mouth, and his [weary] eyes brightened." 
1Samuel14:28 Then one of the men told him, Your father strictly charged the men with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man who eats any food today. And the people were exhausted and faint." 
1Samuel14:29 Then Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land. See how my eyes have brightened because I tasted a little of this honey." 
1Samuel14:30 How much better if the men had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies which they found! For now the slaughter of the Philistines has not been great. 
1Samuel14:31 They smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very faint. 
1Samuel14:32 [When night came and the oath expired] the men flew upon the spoil. They took sheep, oxen, and calves, slew them on the ground, and ate them [raw] with the blood." 
1Samuel14:33 Then Saul was told, Behold, the men are sinning against the Lord by eating with the blood. And he said, You have transgressed; roll a great stone to me here." 
1Samuel14:34 Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people and tell them, Bring me every man his ox or his sheep, and butcher them here and eat; and sin not against the Lord by eating the blood. So all the men brought each one his ox that night and butchered it there." 
1Samuel14:35 And Saul built an altar to the Lord; it was the first altar he built to the Lord. 
1Samuel14:36 Then Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night and seize and plunder them until daylight, and let us not leave a man of them. They said, Do whatever seems good to you. Then the priest said, Let us draw near here to God." 
1Samuel14:37 And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will You deliver them into the hand of Israel? But He did not answer him that day." 
1Samuel14:38 Then Saul said, Draw near, all the chiefs of the people, and let us see how this sin [causing God's silence] arose today." 
1Samuel14:39 For as the Lord lives, Who delivers Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But not a man among all the people answered him." 
1Samuel14:40 Then he said to all Israel, You be on one side; and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. The people said to Saul, Do what seems good to you." 
1Samuel14:41 Therefore Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot and show the right. And Saul and Jonathan were taken [by lot], but the other men went free." 
1Samuel14:42 Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken." 
1Samuel14:43 Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what you have done. And Jonathan said, I tasted a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand. And behold, I must die." 
1Samuel14:44 Saul answered, May God do so, and more also, for you shall surely die, Jonathan." 
1Samuel14:45 But the people said to Saul, Shall Jonathan, who has wrought this great deliverance to Israel, die? God forbid! As the Lord lives, there shall not one hair of his head perish, for he has wrought this great deliverance with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan, and he did not die." 
1Samuel14:46 Then Saul ceased pursuing the Philistines, and they went to their own place." 
1Samuel14:47 When Saul took over the kingdom of Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side: Moab, the Ammonites, Edom, the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines. Wherever he turned, he made it worse for them." 
1Samuel14:48 He did valiantly and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of those who plundered them." 
1Samuel14:49 Now Saul's sons were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters were, of the firstborn, Merab; and of the younger, Michal." 
1Samuel14:50 The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam daughter of Ahimaaz. The commander of his army was Abner son of Ner, Saul's uncle." 
1Samuel14:51 Kish the father of Saul and Ner the father of Abner were sons of Abiel. 
1Samuel14:52 There was severe war against the Philistines all the days of Saul, and whenever Saul saw any mighty or [outstandingly] courageous man, he attached him to himself." 
1Samuel15:1 SAMUEL TOLD Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you king over His people Israel. Now listen and heed the words of the Lord." 
1Samuel15:2 Thus says the Lord of hosts, I have considered and will punish what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way when [Israel] came out of Egypt." 
1Samuel15:3 Now go and smite Amalek and utterly destroy all they have; do not spare them, but kill both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and donkey." 
1Samuel15:4 So Saul assembled the men and numbered them at Telaim,200,000 men on foot and 10,000 men of Judah." 
1Samuel15:5 And Saul came to the city of Amalek and laid wait in the valley. 
1Samuel15:6 Saul warned the Kenites, Go, depart, get down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for you showed kindness to all the Israelites when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites." 
1Samuel15:7 Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah as far as Shur, which is east of Egypt." 
1Samuel15:8 And he took Agag king of the Amalekites alive, though he utterly destroyed all the rest of the people with the sword." 
1Samuel15:9 Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, oxen, fatlings, lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them; but all that was undesirable or worthless they destroyed utterly." 
1Samuel15:10 Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying," 
1Samuel15:11 I regret making Saul king, for he has turned back from following Me and has not performed My commands. And Samuel was grieved and angry [with Saul], and he cried to the Lord all night." 
1Samuel15:12 When Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, he was told, Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up for himself a monument or trophy [of his victory] and passed on and went down to Gilgal." 
1Samuel15:13 And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord. I have performed what the Lord ordered." 
1Samuel15:14 And Samuel said, What then means this bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?" 
1Samuel15:15 Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen to sacrifice to the Lord your God, but the rest we have utterly destroyed." 
1Samuel15:16 Then Samuel said to Saul, Stop! I will tell you what the Lord said to me tonight. Saul said to him, Say on." 
1Samuel15:17 Samuel said, When you were small in your own sight, were you not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the Lord anointed you king over Israel?" 
1Samuel15:18 And the Lord sent you on a mission and said, Go, utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites; and fight against them until they are consumed." 
1Samuel15:19 Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord, but swooped down upon the plunder and did evil in the Lord's sight?" 
1Samuel15:20 Saul said to Samuel, Yes, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have brought Agag king of Amalek and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites." 
1Samuel15:21 But the people took from the spoil sheep and oxen, the chief of the things to be utterly destroyed, to sacrifice to the Lord your God in Gilgal." 
1Samuel15:22 Samuel said, Has the Lord as great a delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." 
1Samuel15:23 For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim (household good luck images). Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, He also has rejected you from being king." 
1Samuel15:24 And Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of the Lord and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice." 
1Samuel15:25 Now, I pray you, pardon my sin and go back with me, that I may worship the Lord." 
1Samuel15:26 And Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with you; for you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel." 
1Samuel15:27 And as Samuel turned to go away, Saul seized the skirt of Samuel's mantle, and it tore." 
1Samuel15:28 And Samuel said to him, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you." 
1Samuel15:29 And also the Strength of Israel will not lie or repent; for He is not a man, that He should repent." 
1Samuel15:30 Saul said, I have sinned; yet honor me now, I pray you, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship the Lord your God." 
1Samuel15:31 So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul worshiped the Lord." 
1Samuel15:32 Then Samuel said, Bring here to me Agag king of the Amalekites. And Agag came to him cheerfully. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past." 
1Samuel15:33 Samuel said, As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the Lord in Gilgal." 
1Samuel15:34 Then Samuel went to Ramah, but Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul." 
1Samuel15:35 And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death, though Samuel grieved over Saul. And the Lord repented that He had made Saul king over Israel." 
1Samuel16:1 THE LORD said to Samuel, How long will you mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill your horn with oil; I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite. For I have provided for Myself a king among his sons." 
1Samuel16:2 Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take a heifer with you and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord." 
1Samuel16:3 And invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do; and you shall anoint for Me the one I name to you." 
1Samuel16:4 And Samuel did what the Lord said, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming and said, Have you come peaceably?" 
1Samuel16:5 And he said, Peaceably; I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice." 
1Samuel16:6 When they had come, he looked on Eliab [the eldest son] and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before Him." 
1Samuel16:7 But the Lord said to Samuel, Look not on his appearance or at the height of his stature, for I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees; for man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart." 
1Samuel16:8 Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. But Samuel said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one." 
1Samuel16:9 Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. Samuel said, Nor has the Lord chosen him." 
1Samuel16:10 Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen any of these." 
1Samuel16:11 Then [he] said to Jesse, Are all your sons here? [Jesse] said, There is yet the youngest; he is tending the sheep. Samuel said to Jesse, Send for him; for we will not sit down to eat until he is here." 
1Samuel16:12 Jesse sent and brought him. David had a healthy reddish complexion and beautiful eyes, and was fine-looking. The Lord said [to Samuel], Arise, anoint him; this is he." 
1Samuel16:13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed David in the midst of his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon David from that day forward. And Samuel arose and went to Ramah. 
1Samuel16:14 But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord tormented and troubled him." 
1Samuel16:15 Saul's servants said to him, Behold, an evil spirit from God torments you." 
1Samuel16:16 Let our lord now command your servants here before you to find a man who plays skillfully on the lyre; and when the evil spirit from God is upon you, he will play it, and you will be well." 
1Samuel16:17 Saul told his servants, Find me a man who plays well and bring him to me." 
1Samuel16:18 One of the young men said, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who plays skillfully, a valiant man, a man of war, prudent in speech and eloquent, an attractive person; and the Lord is with him." 
1Samuel16:19 So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, Send me David your son, who is with the sheep." 
1Samuel16:20 And Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, a skin of wine, and a kid and sent them by David his son to Saul." 
1Samuel16:21 And David came to Saul and served him. Saul became very fond of him, and he became his armor-bearer." 
1Samuel16:22 Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David remain in my service, for he pleases me." 
1Samuel16:23 And when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, David took a lyre and played it; so Saul was refreshed and became well, and the evil spirit left him." 
1Samuel17:1 NOW THE Philistines gathered their armies for battle and were assembled at Socoh, which belongs to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah in Ephes-dammim." 
1Samuel17:2 Saul and the men of Israel were encamped in the Valley of Elah and drew up in battle array against the Philistines. 
1Samuel17:3 And the Philistines stood on a mountain on one side and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, with the valley between them." 
1Samuel17:4 And a champion went out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span [almost ten feet]." 
1Samuel17:5 And he had a bronze helmet on his head and wore a coat of mail, and the coat weighed 5,000 shekels of bronze." 
1Samuel17:6 He had bronze shin armor on his legs and a bronze javelin across his shoulders. 
1Samuel17:7 And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam; his spear's head weighed 600 shekels of iron. And a shield bearer went before him. 
1Samuel17:8 Goliath stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me." 
1Samuel17:9 If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants; but if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us." 
1Samuel17:10 And the Philistine said, I defy the ranks of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together." 
1Samuel17:11 When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid." 
1Samuel17:12 David was the son of an Ephrathite of Bethlehem in Judah named Jesse, who had eight sons. [Jesse] in the days of Saul was old, advanced in years." 
1Samuel17:13 [His] three eldest sons had followed Saul into battle. Their names were Eliab the firstborn; next, Abinadab; and third, Shammah." 
1Samuel17:14 David was the youngest. The three eldest followed Saul," 
1Samuel17:15 But David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. 
1Samuel17:16 The Philistine came out morning and evening, presenting himself for forty days." 
1Samuel17:17 And Jesse said to David his son, Take for your brothers an ephah of this parched grain and these ten loaves and carry them quickly to your brothers at the camp." 
1Samuel17:18 Also take these ten cheeses to the commander of their thousand. See how your brothers fare and bring some token from them. 
1Samuel17:19 Now Saul and the brothers and all the men of Israel were in the Valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines." 
1Samuel17:20 So David rose up early next morning, left the sheep with a keeper, took the provisions, and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the encampment as the host going forth to the battleground shouted the battle cry." 
1Samuel17:21 And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, army against army." 
1Samuel17:22 David left his packages in the care of the baggage keeper and ran into the ranks and came and greeted his brothers. 
1Samuel17:23 As they talked, behold, Goliath, the champion, the Philistine of Gath, came forth from the Philistine ranks and spoke the same words as before, and David heard him." 
1Samuel17:24 And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, terrified." 
1Samuel17:25 And the Israelites said, Have you seen this man who has come out? Surely he has come out to defy Israel; and the man who kills him the king will enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter and make his father's house free [from taxes and service] in Israel." 
1Samuel17:26 And David said to the men standing by him, What shall be done for the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?" 
1Samuel17:27 And the [men] told him, Thus shall it be done for the man who kills him." 
1Samuel17:28 Now Eliab his eldest brother heard what he said to the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David and he said, Why did you come here? With whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumption and evilness of heart; for you came down that you might see the battle." 
1Samuel17:29 And David said, What have I done now? Was it not a harmless question?" 
1Samuel17:30 And David turned away from Eliab to another and he asked the same question, and again the men gave him the same answer." 
1Samuel17:31 When David's words were heard, they were repeated to Saul, and he sent for him." 
1Samuel17:32 David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of this Philistine; your servant will go out and fight with him." 
1Samuel17:33 And Saul said to David, You are not able to go to fight against this Philistine. You are only an adolescent, and he has been a warrior from his youth." 
1Samuel17:34 And David said to Saul, Your servant kept his father's sheep. And when there came a lion or again a bear and took a lamb out of the flock," 
1Samuel17:35 I went out after it and smote it and delivered the lamb out of its mouth; and when it arose against me, I caught it by its beard and smote it and killed it." 
1Samuel17:36 Your servant killed both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God!" 
1Samuel17:37 David said, The Lord Who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear, He will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord be with you!" 
1Samuel17:38 Then Saul clothed David with his armor; he put a bronze helmet on his head and clothed him with a coat of mail. 
1Samuel17:39 And David girded his sword over his armor. Then he tried to go, but could not, for he was not used to it. And David said to Saul, I cannot go with these, for I am not used to them. And David took them off." 
1Samuel17:40 Then he took his staff in his hand and chose five smooth stones out of the brook and put them in his shepherd's [lunch] bag [a whole kid's skin slung from his shoulder], in his pouch, and his sling was in his hand, and he drew near the Philistine." 
1Samuel17:41 The Philistine came on and drew near to David, the man who bore the shield going before him." 
1Samuel17:42 And when the Philistine looked around and saw David, he scorned and despised him, for he was but an adolescent, with a healthy reddish color and a fair face." 
1Samuel17:43 And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog, that you should come to me with sticks? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods." 
1Samuel17:44 The Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field." 
1Samuel17:45 Then said David to the Philistine, You come to me with a sword, a spear, and a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the ranks of Israel, Whom you have defied." 
1Samuel17:46 This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will smite you and cut off your head. And I will give the corpses of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel." 
1Samuel17:47 And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saves not with sword and spear; for the battle is the Lord's, and He will give you into our hands." 
1Samuel17:48 When the Philistine came forward to meet David, David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet the Philistine." 
1Samuel17:49 David put his hand into his bag and took out a stone and slung it, and it struck the Philistine, sinking into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth." 
1Samuel17:50 So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck down the Philistine and slew him. But no sword was in David's hand." 
1Samuel17:51 So he ran and stood over the Philistine, took his sword and drew it out of its sheath, and killed him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their mighty champion was dead, they fled." 
1Samuel17:52 And the men of Israel and Judah rose with a shout and pursued the Philistines as far as Gath and the gates of Ekron. So the wounded Philistines fell along the way from Shaaraim as far as Gath and Ekron. 
1Samuel17:53 The Israelites returned from their pursuit of the Philistines and plundered their tents. 
1Samuel17:54 David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his armor in his tent." 
1Samuel17:55 When Saul saw David go out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As your soul lives, O king, I cannot tell." 
1Samuel17:56 And the king said, Inquire whose son the stripling is." 
1Samuel17:57 When David returned from killing Goliath the Philistine, Abner brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand." 
1Samuel17:58 And Saul said to him, Whose son are you, young man? And David answered, I am the son of your servant Jesse of Bethlehem." 
1Samuel18:1 WHEN DAVID had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own life." 
1Samuel18:2 Saul took David that day and would not let him return to his father's house. 
1Samuel18:3 Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own life." 
1Samuel18:4 And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, even his sword, his bow, and his girdle." 
1Samuel18:5 And David went out wherever Saul sent him, and he prospered and behaved himself wisely; and Saul set him over the men of war. And it was satisfactory both to the people and to Saul's servants." 
1Samuel18:6 As they were coming home, when David returned from killing the Philistine, the women came out of all the Israelite towns, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul with timbrels, songs of joy, and instruments of music." 
1Samuel18:7 And the women responded as they laughed and frolicked, saying, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands." 
1Samuel18:8 And Saul was very angry, for the saying displeased him; and he said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed only thousands. What more can he have but the kingdom?" 
1Samuel18:9 And Saul [jealously] eyed David from that day forward. 
1Samuel18:10 The next day an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he raved [madly] in his house, while David played [the lyre] with his hand, as at other times; and there was a javelin in Saul's hand." 
1Samuel18:11 And Saul cast the javelin, for he thought, I will pin David to the wall. And David evaded him twice." 
1Samuel18:12 Saul was afraid of David, because the Lord was with him but had departed from Saul." 
1Samuel18:13 So Saul removed David from him and made him his commander over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people. 
1Samuel18:14 David acted wisely in all his ways and succeeded, and the Lord was with him." 
1Samuel18:15 When Saul saw how capable and successful David was, he stood in awe of him." 
1Samuel18:16 But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he went out and came in before them." 
1Samuel18:17 Saul said to David, My elder daughter Merab I will give you as wife; only serve me courageously and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul thought, Let not my hand, but the Philistines' hand, be upon him." 
1Samuel18:18 David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I should be the king's son-in-law?" 
1Samuel18:19 But at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as wife." 
1Samuel18:20 Now Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David; and they told Saul, and it pleased him." 
1Samuel18:21 Saul thought, I will give her to him that she may be a snare to him and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. So Saul said to David a second time, You shall now be my son-in-law." 
1Samuel18:22 And Saul commanded his servants to speak to David privately and say, The king delights in you, and all his servants love you; now then, become [his] son-in-law." 
1Samuel18:23 Saul's servants told those words to David. David said, Does it seem to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing I am a poor man and lightly esteemed?" 
1Samuel18:24 And the servants of Saul told him what David said. 
1Samuel18:25 Saul said, Say this to David, The king wants no dowry but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the Philistines' hands." 
1Samuel18:26 When his servants told David these words, it pleased [him] well to become the king's son-in-law. Before the days expired," 
1Samuel18:27 David went, he and his men, and slew two hundred Philistine men, and brought their foreskins and gave them in full number to the king, that he might become the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife." 
1Samuel18:28 When Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David and that Michal [his] daughter loved him," 
1Samuel18:29 Saul was still more afraid of David; and Saul became David's constant enemy. 
1Samuel18:30 Then the Philistine princes came out to battle, and when they did so, David had more success and behaved himself more wisely than all Saul's servants, so that his name was very dear and highly esteemed." 
1Samuel19:1 NOW SAUL told Jonathan his son and all his servants that they must kill David. 
1Samuel19:2 But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David, and he told David, Saul my father is seeking to kill you. Now therefore, take heed to yourself in the morning, and stay in a secret place and hide yourself." 
1Samuel19:3 And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are; and I will converse with my father about you and if I learn anything, I will tell you." 
1Samuel19:4 And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, Let not the king sin against his servant David, for he has not sinned against you, and his deeds have been of good service to you." 
1Samuel19:5 For he took his life in his hands and slew the Philistine, and the Lord wrought a great deliverance for all Israel; you saw it and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood and kill David without a cause?" 
1Samuel19:6 Saul heeded Jonathan and swore, As the Lord lives, David shall not be slain." 
1Samuel19:7 So Jonathan called David and told him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as in times past." 
1Samuel19:8 Then there was war again, and David went out and fought with the Philistines, and made a great slaughter among them and they fled before him." 
1Samuel19:9 Then an evil spirit from the Lord came upon Saul as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing [the lyre] with his hand. 
1Samuel19:10 Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he slipped away, so that Saul struck the spear into the wall. Then David fled and escaped that night." 
1Samuel19:11 Saul sent messengers that night to David's house to watch him, that he might kill him in the morning. But Michal, David's wife, told him, If you do not save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed." 
1Samuel19:12 So Michal let David down through the window, and he fled and escaped." 
1Samuel19:13 And Michal took the teraph (household good luck image) and laid it in the bed, put a pillow of goats' hair at its head, and covered it with a bedspread." 
1Samuel19:14 And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick." 
1Samuel19:15 Then Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him." 
1Samuel19:16 And when the messengers came in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a pillow of goats' hair at its head." 
1Samuel19:17 Saul said to Michal, Why have you deceived me so and sent away my enemy so that he has escaped? Michal answered Saul, He said to me, Let me go. Why should I kill you?" 
1Samuel19:18 So David fled and escaped and came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth. 
1Samuel19:19 And it was told Saul, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah." 
1Samuel19:20 And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed head over them, the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul and they also prophesied." 
1Samuel19:21 When it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied." 
1Samuel19:22 Then Saul himself went to Ramah and came to a great well that is in Secu; and he asked, Where are Samuel and David? And he was told, They are at Naioth in Ramah." 
1Samuel19:23 So he went on to Naioth in Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and as he went on he prophesied until he came to Naioth in Ramah." 
1Samuel19:24 He took off his royal robes and prophesied before Samuel and lay down stripped thus all that day and night. So they say, Is Saul also among the prophets? [I Sam. 10:10.]" 
1Samuel20:1 DAVID FLED from Naioth in Ramah and came and said to Jonathan, What have I done? Of what am I guilty? What is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?" 
1Samuel20:2 Jonathan said, God forbid! You shall not die. My father does nothing great or small but what he tells me. And why should [he] hide this thing from me? It is not so." 
1Samuel20:3 But David replied, Your father certainly knows that I have found favor in your eyes, and he thinks, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved. But truly as the Lord lives and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death." 
1Samuel20:4 Then Jonathan said to David, Whatever you desire, I will do for you." 
1Samuel20:5 David said to Jonathan, Tomorrow is the New Moon [festival], and I should not fail to sit at the table with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field till the third day at evening." 
1Samuel20:6 If your father misses me at all, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem, his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family." 
1Samuel20:7 If he says, All right, then it will be well with your servant; but if he is angry, then be sure that evil is determined by him." 
1Samuel20:8 Therefore deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought [me] into a covenant of the Lord with you. But if there is guilt in me, kill me yourself; for why should you bring me to your father?" 
1Samuel20:9 And Jonathan said, Far be it from you! If I knew that evil was determined for you by my father, would I not tell you?" 
1Samuel20:10 Then said David to Jonathan, Who will tell me if your father answers you roughly?" 
1Samuel20:11 Jonathan said, Come, let us go into the field. So they went into the field." 
1Samuel20:12 Jonathan said to David, The Lord, the God of Israel, be witness. When I have sounded out my father about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if he is well inclined toward David, and I do not send and let you know it," 
1Samuel20:13 The Lord do so, and much more, to Jonathan. But if it please my father to do you harm, then I will disclose it to you and send you away, that you may go in safety. And may the Lord be with you as He has been with my father." 
1Samuel20:14 While I am still alive you shall not only show me the loving-kindness of the Lord, so that I die not," 
1Samuel20:15 But also you shall not cut off your kindness from my house forever,no, not even when the Lord has cut off every enemy of David from the face of the earth." 
1Samuel20:16 So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, And the Lord will require that this covenant be kept at the hands of David's enemies." 
1Samuel20:17 And Jonathan caused David to swear again by his love for him, for Jonathan loved him as he loved his own life." 
1Samuel20:18 Then Jonathan said to David, Tomorrow is the New Moon festival; and you will be missed, for your seat will be empty." 
1Samuel20:19 On the third day you will go quickly and come to the place where you hid yourself when the matter was in hand, and remain by the stone Ezel." 
1Samuel20:20 And I will shoot three arrows on the side of it, as though I shot at a mark." 
1Samuel20:21 And I will send a lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I expressly say to the lad, Look, the arrows are on this side of you, take them,then you are to come, for it is safe for you and there is no danger, as the Lord lives." 
1Samuel20:22 But if I say to the youth, Look, the arrows are beyond you,then go, for the Lord has sent you away." 
1Samuel20:23 And as touching the matter of which you and I have spoken, behold, the Lord is between you and me forever." 
1Samuel20:24 So David hid himself in the field, and when the New Moon [festival] came, the king sat down to eat food." 
1Samuel20:25 The king sat, as at other times, on his seat by the wall, and Jonathan sat opposite, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty." 
1Samuel20:26 Yet Saul said nothing that day, for he thought, Something has befallen him and he is not clean,surely he is not clean." 
1Samuel20:27 But on the morrow, the second day after the new moon, David's place was empty; and Saul said to Jonathan his son, Why has not the son of Jesse come to the meal, either yesterday or today?" 
1Samuel20:28 And Jonathan answered, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem." 
1Samuel20:29 He said, Let me go, I pray, for our family holds a sacrifice in the city and my brother commanded me to be there. Now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away and see my brothers. That is why he has not come to the king's table." 
1Samuel20:30 Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan and he said to him, You son of a perverse, rebellious woman, do not I know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your mother who bore you?" 
1Samuel20:31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon the earth, you shall not be established nor shall your kingdom. So now send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die." 
1Samuel20:32 Jonathan answered Saul his father, Why should he be killed? What has he done?" 
1Samuel20:33 But Saul cast his spear at him to smite him, by which Jonathan knew that his father had determined to kill David." 
1Samuel20:34 So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food that second day of the month, for he grieved for David because his father had disgraced him." 
1Samuel20:35 In the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad was with him." 
1Samuel20:36 And he said to his lad, Run, find the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him." 
1Samuel20:37 When the lad came to the place where Jonathan had shot the arrow, Jonathan called to [him], Is not the arrow beyond you?" 
1Samuel20:38 And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not! The lad gathered up the arrow and came to his master." 
1Samuel20:39 But the lad knew nothing; only Jonathan and David knew the matter. 
1Samuel20:40 Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad and told him, Go, carry them to the city." 
1Samuel20:41 And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose from beside the heap of stones and fell on his face to the ground and bowed himself three times. And they kissed one another and wept with one another until David got control of himself." 
1Samuel20:42 And Jonathan told David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn to each other in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord shall be between me and you, and between my descendants and yours forever. And Jonathan arose and departed into the city." 
1Samuel21:1 THEN DAVID went to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech was afraid at meeting David, and said to him, Why are you alone and no man with you?" 
1Samuel21:2 David said to Ahimelech the priest, The king has charged me with a matter and has told me, Let no man know anything of the mission on which I send you and with what I have charged you. I have appointed the young men to a certain place." 
1Samuel21:3 Now what do you have on hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatever you may have." 
1Samuel21:4 And the priest answered David, There is no common bread on hand, but there is hallowed bread,if the young men have kept themselves at least from women." 
1Samuel21:5 And David told the priest, Truly women have been kept from us in these three days since I came out, and the food bags and utensils of the young men are clean, and although the bread will be used in a secular way, it will be set apart in the clean bags." 
1Samuel21:6 So the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there but the showbread which was taken from before the Lord to put hot bread in its place the day when it was taken away." 
1Samuel21:7 Now a certain man of Saul's servants was there that day, detained before the Lord; his name was Doeg the Edomite, the chief of Saul's herdsmen." 
1Samuel21:8 David said to Ahimelech, Do you have at hand a sword or spear? The king's business required haste, and I brought neither my sword nor my weapons with me." 
1Samuel21:9 The priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you slew in the Valley of Elah, see, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if you will take that, do so, for there is no other here. And David said, There is none like that; give it to me." 
1Samuel21:10 David arose and fled that day from Saul and went to Achish king of Gath. 
1Samuel21:11 The servants of Achish said to him, Is not this David, the king of the land? Did they not sing one to another of him in their dances: Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?" 
1Samuel21:12 David took these words to heart and was much afraid of Achish king of Gath. 
1Samuel21:13 And he changed his behavior before them, and pretended to be insane in their [Philistine] hands, and scribbled on the gate doors, and drooled on his beard." 
1Samuel21:14 Then said Achish to his servants, You see the man is mad. Why then have you brought him to me?" 
1Samuel21:15 Have I need of madmen, that you bring this fellow to play the madman in my presence? Shall this fellow come into my house?" 
1Samuel22:1 SO DAVID departed and escaped to the cave of Adullam: and when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him." 
1Samuel22:2 And everyone in distress or in debt or discontented gathered to him, and he became a commander over them. And there were with him about 400 men." 
1Samuel22:3 And David went from there to Mizpah of Moab; and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father [of Moabite descent] and my mother, I pray you, come out [of Judah] and be with you till I know what God will do for me. [Ruth 4:13, 17.]" 
1Samuel22:3 And David went from there to Mizpah of Moab; and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father [of Moabite descent] and my mother, I pray you, come out [of Judah] and be with you till I know what God will do for me. [Ruth 4:13, 17.]" 
1Samuel22:4 And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the stronghold [in Moab]." 
1Samuel22:5 Then the prophet Gad said to David, Do not remain in the stronghold; leave, and get into the land of Judah. So David left and went into the forest of Hareth." 
1Samuel22:6 Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him. Saul was sitting in Gibeah under the tamarisk tree on the height, his spear in his hand and all his servants standing about him." 
1Samuel22:7 Saul said to his servants who stood about him, Hear now, you Benjamites! Will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards and make you all commanders of thousands and hundreds," 
1Samuel22:8 That all of you have conspired against me? No one discloses to me when my son makes a league with the son of Jesse. None of you is sorry for me or discloses that my son has stirred up my servant against me to lie in wait, as he does this day?" 
1Samuel22:9 Then Doeg the Edomite, who stood with Saul's servants, said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech son of Ahitub." 
1Samuel22:10 And [Ahimelech] inquired of the Lord for him, and gave him provisions and the sword of Goliath the Philistine." 
1Samuel22:11 Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests who were at Nob, and they all came to the king." 
1Samuel22:12 Saul said, Hear now, you son of Ahitub. He replied, Here I am, my lord." 
1Samuel22:13 Saul said to him, Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, giving him bread and a sword and inquiring of God for him, so he could rise against me to lie in wait, as he does this day?" 
1Samuel22:14 Then Ahimelech answered the king, And who is so faithful among all your servants as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into your council and honored in your house?" 
1Samuel22:15 Have I only today begun inquiring of God for him? No! Let not the king impute any wrong to his servant or to all the house of my father, for your servant has known nothing of all this, little or much." 
1Samuel22:16 [Saul] said, You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's house." 
1Samuel22:17 And the king said to the guard that stood about him, Turn and slay the Lord's priests, because their hand also is with David and because they knew that he fled and did not disclose it to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hands against the Lord's priests." 
1Samuel22:18 The king said to Doeg, You turn and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned and attacked the priests and slew that day eighty-five persons who wore the priest's linen ephod." 
1Samuel22:19 And Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the sword; both men and women, children and sucklings, oxen and donkeys and sheep, he put to the sword." 
1Samuel22:20 And one of the sons of Ahimelech son of Ahitub named Abiathar escaped and fled after David. 
1Samuel22:21 And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the Lord's priests. 
1Samuel22:22 David said to Abiathar, I knew that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I have occasioned the death of all your father's house." 
1Samuel22:23 Stay with me, fear not; for he who seeks my life seeks your life. But with me you shall be safeguarded." 
1Samuel23:1 THEN THEY told David, Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are robbing the threshing floors." 
1Samuel23:2 So David inquired of the Lord, Shall I go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go, smite the Philistines and save Keilah." 
1Samuel23:3 David's men said to him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more, then, if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?" 
1Samuel23:4 Then David inquired of the Lord again. And the Lord answered him, Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand." 
1Samuel23:5 So David and his men went to Keilah and fought the Philistines with a great slaughter and brought away their cattle. So David delivered the people of Keilah. 
1Samuel23:6 When Abiathar son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah, he came with an ephod in his hand." 
1Samuel23:7 Now it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. Saul said, God has delivered him into my hand, for he is shut in by going into a town that has gates and bars." 
1Samuel23:8 Saul summoned all the men for war, to go to Keilah to besiege David and his men." 
1Samuel23:9 David knew that Saul was plotting evil against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod here." 
1Samuel23:10 Then David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, Your servant has surely heard that Saul intends to come and destroy the city of Keilah on my account." 
1Samuel23:11 Will the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down, as Your servant has heard? O Lord, God of Israel, I beseech You, tell Your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down." 
1Samuel23:12 Then David asked, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into Saul's hand? The Lord said, They will deliver you up." 
1Samuel23:13 Then David and his men, about 600, arose and left Keilah, going wherever they could go. When Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah, he gave up going there." 
1Samuel23:14 David remained in the wilderness strongholds in the hill country of the Wilderness of Ziph. Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hands." 
1Samuel23:15 David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the Wilderness of Ziph in the wood [at Horesh]. 
1Samuel23:16 And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went into the wood to David [at Horesh] and strengthened his hand in God." 
1Samuel23:17 He said to him, Fear not; the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father knows that too." 
1Samuel23:18 And the two of them made a covenant before the Lord. And David remained in the wood [at Horesh], and Jonathan went to his house." 
1Samuel23:19 Then the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Does not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the wood [at Horesh], on the hill of Hachilah, which is south of Jeshimon?" 
1Samuel23:20 Now come down, O king, according to all your heart's desire to come down, and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hands." 
1Samuel23:21 And Saul said, The Lord bless you, for you have compassion on me." 
1Samuel23:22 Go, make yet more sure; and know and see where his haunt is and who has seen him there; for I am told he deals very craftily." 
1Samuel23:23 See and take note of all his hiding places and come back to me with the certain facts, and I will go with you. If he is in the land, I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah." 
1Samuel23:24 So they arose and went to Ziph ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were in the Wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah south of Jeshimon." 
1Samuel23:25 Saul and his men went to seek him. And David was told; so he went down to the rock in the Wilderness of Maon and stayed. When Saul heard that, he pursued David in the Wilderness of Maon." 
1Samuel23:26 And Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain. And David made haste to get away for fear of Saul, for Saul and his men were surrounding [him] and his men to capture them." 
1Samuel23:27 But a messenger came to Saul, saying, Make haste and come, for the Philistines have made a raid on the land." 
1Samuel23:28 So Saul returned from pursuing David and went against the Philistines. So they called that place the Rock of Escape. 
1Samuel23:29 David went up from there and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi. 
1Samuel24:1 WHEN SAUL returned from following the Philistines, he was told, Behold, David is in the Wilderness of En-gedi." 
1Samuel24:2 Then Saul took 3,000 chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men among the Rocks of the Wild Goats." 
1Samuel24:3 He came to the sheepfolds on the way, where there was a cave, and Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the cave's innermost recesses." 
1Samuel24:4 David's men said to him, Behold the day of which the Lord said to you, Behold, I will deliver your enemy into your hands and you shall do to him as seems good to you. Then David arose [in the darkness] and stealthily cut off the skirt of Saul's robe." 
1Samuel24:5 Afterward, David's heart smote him because he had cut off Saul's skirt." 
1Samuel24:6 He said to his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this to my master, the Lord's anointed, to put my hand out against him, when he is the anointed of the Lord." 
1Samuel24:7 So David checked his men with these words and did not let them rise against Saul. But Saul rose up and left the cave and went on his way. 
1Samuel24:8 David also arose afterward and went out of the cave and called after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth and did obeisance." 
1Samuel24:9 And David said to Saul, Why do you listen to the words of men who say, David seeks to do you harm?" 
1Samuel24:10 Behold, your eyes have seen how the Lord gave you today into my hands in the cave. Some told me to kill you, but I spared you; I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the Lord's anointed." 
1Samuel24:11 See, my father, see the skirt of your robe in my hand! Since I cut off the skirt of your robe and did not kill you, you know and see that there is no evil or treason in my hands. I have not sinned against you, yet you hunt my life to take it." 
1Samuel24:12 May the Lord judge between me and you, and may the Lord avenge me upon you, but my hand shall not be upon you." 
1Samuel24:13 As the proverb of the ancients says, Out of the wicked comes forth wickedness; but my hand shall not be against you." 
1Samuel24:14 After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a dead dog? After a flea? 
1Samuel24:15 May the Lord be judge and judge between me and you, and see and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your hands. [Ps. 142.]" 
1Samuel24:16 When David had said this to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept." 
1Samuel24:17 He said to David, You are more upright in God's eyes than I, for you have repaid me good, but I have rewarded you evil." 
1Samuel24:18 You have declared today how you have dealt well with me; for when the Lord gave me into your hand, you did not kill me." 
1Samuel24:19 For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away unharmed? Therefore may the Lord reward you with good for what you have done for me this day." 
1Samuel24:20 And now, behold, I well know that you shall surely be king and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hands." 
1Samuel24:21 Swear now therefore to me by the Lord that you will not cut off my descendants after me and that you will not destroy my name out of my father's house. 
1Samuel24:22 David gave Saul his oath; and Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold." 
1Samuel25:1 NOW SAMUEL died, and all the Israelites assembled and mourned for him, and buried him at his house in Ramah. David arose and went to the Wilderness of Paran." 
1Samuel25:2 A very rich man was in Maon, whose possessions and business were in Carmel. He had 3,000 sheep and 1,000 goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel." 
1Samuel25:3 The man's name was Nabal and his wife's name was Abigail; she was a woman of good understanding, and beautiful. But the man was rough and evil in his doings; he was a Calebite." 
1Samuel25:4 David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep. 
1Samuel25:5 And David sent out ten young men and said to [them], Go up to Carmel to Nabal and greet him in my name;" 
1Samuel25:6 And salute him thus: Peace be to you and to your house and to all that you have. 
1Samuel25:7 I have heard that you have shearers. Now your shepherds have been with us and we did them no harm, and they missed nothing all the time they were in Carmel." 
1Samuel25:8 Ask your young men and they will tell you. Therefore let my young men find favor in your sight, for we come at an opportune time. I pray you, give whatever you have at hand to your servants and to your son David." 
1Samuel25:9 And when David's young men came, they said all this to Nabal in the name of David, and then paused." 
1Samuel25:10 And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants nowadays who are each breaking away from his master." 
1Samuel25:11 Shall I then take my bread and my water, and my meat that I have killed for my shearers, and give it to men when I do not know where they belong?" 
1Samuel25:12 So David's young men turned away, and came and told him all that was said." 
1Samuel25:13 And David said to his men, Every man gird on his sword. And they did so, and David also girded on his sword; and there went up after David about 400 men, and 200 remained with the baggage." 
1Samuel25:14 But one of Nabal's young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he railed at them." 
1Samuel25:15 But David's men were very good to us, and we were not harmed, nor did we miss anything as long as we went with them, when we were in the fields." 
1Samuel25:16 They were a wall to us night and day, all the time we were with them keeping the sheep." 
1Samuel25:17 So know this and consider what you will do, for evil is determined against our master and all his house. For he is such a wicked man that one cannot speak to him." 
1Samuel25:18 Then Abigail made haste and took 200 loaves, two skins of wine, five sheep already dressed, five measures of parched grain, 100 clusters of raisins, and 200 cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys." 
1Samuel25:19 And she said to her servants, Go on before me; behold, I come after you. But she did not tell her husband Nabal." 
1Samuel25:20 As she rode on her donkey, she came down hidden by the mountain, and behold, David and his men came down opposite her, and she met them." 
1Samuel25:21 Now David had said, Surely in vain have I protected all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that belonged to him; and he has repaid me evil for good." 
1Samuel25:22 May God do so, and more also, to David if I leave of all who belong to him one male alive by morning." 
1Samuel25:23 When Abigail saw David, she hastened and lighted off the donkey, and fell before David on her face and did obeisance." 
1Samuel25:24 Kneeling at his feet she said, Upon me alone let this guilt be, my lord. And let your handmaid, I pray you, speak in your presence, and hear the words of your handmaid." 
1Samuel25:25 Let not my lord, I pray you, regard this foolish and wicked fellow Nabal, for as his name is, so is he,Nabal [foolish, wicked] is his name, and folly is with him. But I, your handmaid, did not see my lord's young men whom you sent." 
1Samuel25:26 So now, my lord, as the Lord lives and as your soul lives, seeing that the Lord has prevented you from bloodguiltiness and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now let your enemies and those who seek to do evil to my lord be as Nabal." 
1Samuel25:27 And now this gift, which your handmaid has brought my lord, let it be given to the young men who follow my lord." 
1Samuel25:28 Forgive, I pray you, the trespass of your handmaid, for the Lord will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord is fighting the Lord's battles, and evil has not been found in you all your days." 
1Samuel25:29 Though man is risen up to pursue you and to seek your life, yet the life of my lord shall be bound in the living bundle with the Lord your God. And the lives of your enemies,them shall He sling out as out of the center of a sling." 
1Samuel25:30 And when the Lord has done to my lord according to all the good that He has promised concerning you and has made you ruler over Israel," 
1Samuel25:31 This shall be no staggering grief to you or cause for pangs of conscience to my lord, either that you have shed blood without cause or that my lord has avenged himself. And when the Lord has dealt well with my lord, then [earnestly] remember your handmaid." 
1Samuel25:32 And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, Who sent you this day to meet me." 
1Samuel25:33 And blessed be your discretion and advice, and blessed be you who have kept me today from bloodguiltiness and from avenging myself with my own hand." 
1Samuel25:34 For as the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, Who has prevented me from hurting you, if you had not hurried and come to meet me, surely by morning there would not have been left so much as one male to Nabal." 
1Samuel25:35 So David accepted what she had brought him and said to her, Go up in peace to your house. See, I have hearkened to your voice and have granted your petition." 
1Samuel25:36 And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he was holding a feast in his house like the feast of a king. And [his] heart was merry, for he was very drunk; so she told him nothing at all until the morning light." 
1Samuel25:37 But in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife told him these things, his heart died within him and he became [paralyzed, helpless as] a stone." 
1Samuel25:38 And about ten days after that, the Lord smote Nabal and he died." 
1Samuel25:39 When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord, Who has pleaded the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and kept His servant from evil. For the Lord has returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him as his wife." 
1Samuel25:40 And when the servants of David had come to Abigail at Carmel, they said to her, David sent us to you to take you to him to be his wife." 
1Samuel25:41 And she arose and bowed herself to the earth and said, Behold, let your handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord." 
1Samuel25:42 And Abigail hastened and arose and rode on a donkey, with five of her maids who followed her, and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife." 
1Samuel25:43 David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they both became his wives." 
1Samuel25:44 Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti son of Laish, who was of Gallim." 
1Samuel26:1 THE ZIPHITES came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Does not David hide himself on the hill of Hachilah, east of Jeshimon?" 
1Samuel26:2 So Saul arose and went down to the Wilderness of Ziph, with 3,000 chosen men of Israel, to seek David [there]." 
1Samuel26:3 Saul encamped on the hill of Hachilah, which is beside the road east of Jeshimon. But David remained in the wilderness. And when he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness," 
1Samuel26:4 David sent out spies and learned that Saul had actually come. 
1Samuel26:5 David arose and came to the place where Saul had encamped, and saw where Saul lay with Abner son of Ner, commander of his army; and Saul was lying in the encampment, with the army encamped around him." 
1Samuel26:6 Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, Who will go down with me into the camp of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you." 
1Samuel26:7 So David and Abishai went to the army by night, and there Saul lay sleeping within the encampment with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the army lay round about him." 
1Samuel26:8 Then said Abishai to David, God has given your enemy into your hands this day. Now therefore let me smite him to the earth at once with one stroke of the spear, and I will not strike him twice." 
1Samuel26:9 David said to Abishai, Do not destroy him; for who can raise his hand against the Lord's anointed and be guiltless?" 
1Samuel26:10 David said, As the Lord lives, [He] will smite him; or his day will come to die or he will go down in battle and perish." 
1Samuel26:11 The Lord forbid that I should raise my hand against the Lord's anointed; but take now the spear that is at his head and the bottle of water, and let us go." 
1Samuel26:12 So David took the spear and the bottle of water from Saul's head, and they got away. And no man saw or knew or wakened, for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from the Lord had fallen upon them." 
1Samuel26:13 Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of the mountain afar off, a great space being between them." 
1Samuel26:14 David called to the army and Abner son of Ner, Will you answer, Abner? Abner replied, Who are you, calling [and disturbing] the king?" 
1Samuel26:15 David said to Abner, Are you not a valiant man? Who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not guarded your lord the king? For one of the people came in [to your camp] to destroy the king your lord." 
1Samuel26:16 This thing is not good that you have done. As the Lord lives, you deserve to die, because you have not guarded your master, the Lord's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is and the bottle of water that was at his head." 
1Samuel26:17 And Saul knew David's voice and said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, My voice, my lord O king!" 
1Samuel26:18 And David said, Why does my lord thus pursue his servant? What have I done? Or what evil is in my hand [tonight]?" 
1Samuel26:19 Now therefore, I pray you, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If the Lord has stirred you up against me, let Him accept an offering; but if it is men, may they be cursed before the Lord, for they have driven me out this day that I should have no share in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Go, serve other gods." 
1Samuel26:20 Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of the Lord; for the king of Israel is come out to seek one flea, as when one hunts a partridge in the mountains." 
1Samuel26:21 Then said Saul, I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will no more do you harm, because my life was precious in your eyes this day. Behold, I have played the fool and have erred exceedingly." 
1Samuel26:22 David answered, See the king's spear! Let one of the young men come and get it." 
1Samuel26:23 The Lord rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness; for the Lord delivered you into my hands today, but I would not stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed." 
1Samuel26:24 And behold, as your life was precious today in my sight, so let my life be precious in the sight of the Lord, and let Him deliver me out of all tribulation." 
1Samuel26:25 Then Saul said to David, May you be blessed, my son David; you will both do mightily and surely prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place." 
1Samuel27:1 BUT DAVID said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any more within the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand." 
1Samuel27:2 So David arose and went over with the 600 men who were with him to Achish son of Maoch, king of Gath." 
1Samuel27:3 And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's widow." 
1Samuel27:4 When it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, he sought for him no more." 
1Samuel27:5 And David said to Achish, If I have now found favor in your eyes, let me be given a place to dwell in some country town; for why should your servant live in the royal city with you?" 
1Samuel27:6 Then Achish gave David the town of Ziklag that day. Therefore Ziklag belongs to the kings of Judah to this day. 
1Samuel27:7 The time David dwelt in the Philistines' country was a year and four months. 
1Samuel27:8 Now David and his men went up and made attacks on the Geshurites, Girzites, and Amalekites [enemies of Israel Joshua had failed to exterminate]. For from of old those nations inhabited the land, as one goes to Shur even to the land of Egypt. [Deut. 25:19; Josh. 13:1, 2, 13.]" 
1Samuel27:8 Now David and his men went up and made attacks on the Geshurites, Girzites, and Amalekites [enemies of Israel Joshua had failed to exterminate]. For from of old those nations inhabited the land, as one goes to Shur even to the land of Egypt. [Deut. 25:19; Josh. 13:1, 2, 13.]" 
1Samuel27:9 And David smote the land and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, oxen, donkeys, camels, and the apparel, and returned to Achish." 
1Samuel27:10 Achish would ask, Against whom have you made a raid today? And David would reply, Against the South (Negeb) of Judah, or of the Jerahmeelites, or of the Kenites." 
1Samuel27:11 And David saved neither man nor woman alive to bring tidings to Gath, thinking, Lest they should say about us, So did David, and so will he do as long as he dwells in the Philistines' country." 
1Samuel27:12 And Achish believed David, saying, He has made his people Israel utterly abhor him; so he shall be my servant always." 
1Samuel28:1 IN THOSE days the Philistines gathered their forces for war against Israel. Achish said to David, Understand that you and your men shall go with me to battle." 
1Samuel28:2 David said to Achish, All right, you shall know what your servant can do. Achish said to David, Therefore I will make you my bodyguard always." 
1Samuel28:3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had put the mediums and the wizards out of the land." 
1Samuel28:4 And the Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel and they encamped at Gilboa. 
1Samuel28:5 When Saul saw the Philistine host, he was afraid; his heart trembled greatly." 
1Samuel28:6 When Saul inquired of the Lord, He refused to answer him, either by dreams or by Urim [a symbol worn by the priest when seeking the will of God for Israel] or by the prophets. [Prov. 1:24-30.]" 
1Samuel28:7 Then Saul said to his servants, Find me a woman who is a medium [between the living and the dead], that I may go and inquire of her. His servants said, Behold, there is a woman who is a medium at Endor." 
1Samuel28:8 So Saul disguised himself, put on other raiment, and he and two men with him went and came to the woman at night. He said to her, Perceive for me by the familiar spirit and bring up for me the dead person whom I shall name to you." 
1Samuel28:9 The woman said, See here, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who are mediums and wizards out of the land. Why then do you lay a trap for my life to cause my death?" 
1Samuel28:10 And Saul swore to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord lives, there shall no punishment come to you for this." 
1Samuel28:11 The woman said, Whom shall I bring up for you? He said, Bring up Samuel for me." 
1Samuel28:12 And when the woman saw Samuel, she screamed and she said to Saul, Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul!" 
1Samuel28:13 The king said to her, Be not afraid; what do you see? The woman said to Saul, I see a god [terrifying superhuman being] coming up out of the earth!" 
1Samuel28:14 He said to her, In what form is he? And she said, An old man comes up, covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground and made obeisance." 
1Samuel28:15 And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you disturbed me to bring me up? Saul answered, I am bitterly distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me and answers me no more, either by prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have called you, that you may make known to me what I should do." 
1Samuel28:16 Samuel said, Why then do you ask me, seeing that the Lord has turned from you and has become your enemy?" 
1Samuel28:17 The Lord has done to you as He said through me He would do; for [He] has torn the kingdom out of your hands and given it to your neighbor David. [I Sam. 15:22-28.] 
1Samuel28:18 Because you did not obey the voice of the Lord or execute His fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore the Lord has done this thing to you this day." 
1Samuel28:19 Moreover, the Lord will also give Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons shall be with me [among the dead]. The Lord also will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines." 
1Samuel28:20 Then immediately Saul fell full length upon the earth floor [of the medium's house], and was exceedingly afraid because of Samuel's words. There was no strength in him, for he had eaten nothing all day and all night." 
1Samuel28:21 The woman came to Saul, and seeing that he was greatly troubled, she said to him, Behold, your handmaid has obeyed you, and I have put my life in my hands and have listened to what you said to me." 
1Samuel28:22 So now, I pray you, listen also to the voice of your handmaid and let me set a morsel of food before you, and eat, so you may have strength when you go on your way." 
1Samuel28:23 But he said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, urged him, and he heeded their words. So he arose from the ground and sat upon the bed." 
1Samuel28:24 The woman had a fat calf in the house; she hurried and killed it, and took flour, kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread." 
1Samuel28:25 Then she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they rose up and went away that night." 
1Samuel29:1 NOW THE Philistines gathered all their forces at Aphek, and the Israelites encamped by the fountain in Jezreel." 
1Samuel29:2 As the Philistine lords were passing on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men were in the rear with Achish," 
1Samuel29:3 The Philistine princes said, What are these Hebrews doing here? Achish said to the Philistine princes, Is not this David, the servant of Saul king of Israel, who has been with me these days and years, and I have found no fault in him since he deserted to me to this day?" 
1Samuel29:4 And the Philistine princes were angry with Achish and they said to him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place where you have assigned him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he become an adversary to us. For how could David reconcile himself to his master? Would it not be with the heads of the men here?" 
1Samuel29:5 Is not this David, of whom they sang to one another in dances, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?" 
1Samuel29:6 Then Achish called David and said to him, As surely as the Lord lives, you have been honest and upright, and for you to go out and come in with me in the army is good in my sight; for I have found no evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day. Yet the lords do not approve of you." 
1Samuel29:7 So return now and go peaceably, so as not to displease the Philistine lords." 
1Samuel29:8 David said to Achish, But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant as long as I have been with you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?" 
1Samuel29:9 And Achish said to David, I know that you are as blameless in my sight as an angel of God; nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle." 
1Samuel29:10 So now rise up early in the morning, with your master's servants who have come with you, and as soon as you are up and have light, depart." 
1Samuel29:11 So David and his men rose up early in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines. But the Philistines went up to Jezreel [to fight against Israel]. 
1Samuel30:1 NOW WHEN David and his men came home to Ziklag on the third day, they found that the Amalekites had made a raid on the South (the Negeb) and on Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag and burned it with fire," 
1Samuel30:2 And had taken the women and all who were there, both great and small, captive. They killed no one, but carried them off and went on their way." 
1Samuel30:3 So David and his men came to the town, and behold, it was burned, and their wives and sons and daughters were taken captive." 
1Samuel30:4 Then David and the men with him lifted up their voices and wept until they had no more strength to weep. 
1Samuel30:5 David's two wives also had been taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail, the widow of Nabal the Carmelite." 
1Samuel30:6 David was greatly distressed, for the men spoke of stoning him because the souls of them all were bitterly grieved, each man for his sons and daughters. But David encouraged and strengthened himself in the Lord his God." 
1Samuel30:7 David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, I pray you, bring me the ephod. And Abiathar brought him the ephod." 
1Samuel30:8 And David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue this troop? Shall I overtake them? The Lord answered him, Pursue, for you shall surely overtake them and without fail recover all." 
1Samuel30:9 So David went, he and the 600 men with him, and came to the brook Besor; there those remained who were left behind." 
1Samuel30:10 But David pursued, he and 400 men, for 200 stayed behind who were too exhausted and faint to cross the brook Besor." 
1Samuel30:11 They found an Egyptian in the field and brought him to David, and gave him bread and he ate, and water to drink," 
1Samuel30:12 And a piece of a cake of figs and two clusters of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit returned to him, for he had eaten no food or drunk any water for three days and three nights." 
1Samuel30:13 And David said to him, To whom do you belong? And from where have you come? He said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me because three days ago I fell sick." 
1Samuel30:14 We had made a raid on the South (Negeb) of the Cherethites and upon that which belongs to Judah and upon the South (Negeb) of Caleb. And we burned Ziklag with fire. 
1Samuel30:15 And David said to him, Can you take me down to this band? And he said, Swear to me by God that you will neither kill me nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring you down to this band." 
1Samuel30:16 And when he had brought David down, behold, the raiders were spread abroad over all the land, eating and drinking and dancing because of all the great spoil they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah." 
1Samuel30:17 And David smote them from twilight even to the evening of the next day, and not a man of them escaped, except 400 youths who rode camels and fled." 
1Samuel30:18 David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken and rescued his two wives. 
1Samuel30:19 Nothing was missing, small or great, sons or daughters, spoil or anything that had been taken; David recovered all." 
1Samuel30:20 Also David captured all the flocks and herds [which the enemy had], and the people drove those animals before him and said, This is David's spoil." 
1Samuel30:21 And David came to the 200 men who were so exhausted and faint that they could not follow [him] and had been left at the brook Besor [with the baggage]. They came to meet David and those with him, and when he came near to the men, he saluted them." 
1Samuel30:22 Then all the wicked and base men who went with David said, Because they did not go with us, we will give them nothing of the spoil we have recovered, except that every man may lead away his wife and children and depart." 
1Samuel30:23 David said, You shall not do so, my brethren, with what the Lord has given us. He has preserved us and has delivered into our hands the troop that came against us." 
1Samuel30:24 Who would listen to you in this matter? For as is the share of him who goes into the battle, so shall his share be who stays by the baggage. They shall share alike." 
1Samuel30:25 And from that day to this he made it a statute and ordinance for Israel. 
1Samuel30:26 When David came to Ziklag, he sent part of the spoil to the elders of Judah, his friends, saying, Here is a gift for you of the spoil of the enemies of the Lord:" 
1Samuel30:27 For those in Bethel, Ramoth of the Negeb, Jattir," 
1Samuel30:28 Aroer, Siphmoth, Eshtemoa," 
1Samuel30:29 Racal, the cities of the Jerahmeelites, the cities of the Kenites," 
1Samuel30:30 Hormah, Bor-ashan, Athach," 
1Samuel30:31 Hebron, and for those in all the places David and his men had habitually haunted." 
1Samuel31:1 NOW THE Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before [them] and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 
1Samuel31:2 And the Philistines pursued Saul and his sons, and slew Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, Saul's sons." 
1Samuel31:3 The battle went heavily against Saul, and the archers severely wounded him." 
1Samuel31:4 Saul said to his armor-bearer, Draw your sword and thrust me through, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through and abuse and mock me. But his armor-bearer would not, for he was terrified. So Saul took a sword and fell upon it." 
1Samuel31:5 When his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword and died with him." 
1Samuel31:6 So Saul, his three sons, his armor-bearer, and all his men died that day together." 
1Samuel31:7 And when the men of Israel on the other side of the valley and beyond the Jordan saw that the Israelites had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them." 
1Samuel31:8 The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa." 
1Samuel31:9 They cut off Saul's head and stripped off his armor and sent them round about the land of the Philistines to publish it in the house of their idols and among the people. 
1Samuel31:10 And they put Saul's armor in the house of the Ashtaroth [the idols representing the female deities Ashtoreth and Asherah], and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan." 
1Samuel31:11 When the people of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul," 
1Samuel31:12 All the valiant men arose and went all night, and they took the bodies of Saul and his sons from the wall of Beth-shan and came to Jabesh and cremated them there." 
1Samuel31:13 And they took their bones and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days." 
2Samuel1:1 NOW AFTER the death of Saul, when David returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, he had stayed two days in Ziklag," 
2Samuel1:2 When on the third day a man came from Saul's camp with his clothes torn and dust on his head. When he came to David, he fell to the ground and did obeisance." 
2Samuel1:3 David said to him, Where have you come from? He said, I have escaped from the camp of Israel." 
2Samuel1:4 David said to him, How did it go? Tell me. He answered, The men have fled from the battle. Many have fallen and are dead; Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also." 
2Samuel1:5 David said to the young man, How do you know Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?" 
2Samuel1:6 The young man said, By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa and I saw Saul leaning on his spear, and behold, the chariots and horsemen were close behind him." 
2Samuel1:7 When he looked behind him, he saw me and called to me. I answered, Here I am." 
2Samuel1:8 He asked me, Who are you? I answered, An Amalekite." 
2Samuel1:9 He said to me, Rise up against me and slay me; for terrible dizziness has come upon me, yet my life is still in me [and I will be taken alive]." 
2Samuel1:10 So I stood up against him and slew him, because I was sure he could not live after he had fallen. So I took the crown on his head and the bracelet on his arm and have brought them here to my lord. [I Sam. 31:4.]" 
2Samuel1:11 Then David grasped his own clothes and tore them; so did all the men with him. 
2Samuel1:12 They mourned and wept for Saul and Jonathan his son, and fasted until evening for the Lord's people and the house of Israel, because of their defeat in battle." 
2Samuel1:13 David said to the young man who told him, Where are you from? He answered, I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite." 
2Samuel1:14 David said to him, Why were you not afraid to stretch forth your hand to destroy the Lord's anointed?" 
2Samuel1:15 David called one of the young men and said, Go near and fall upon him. And he smote him so that he died." 
2Samuel1:16 David said to [the fallen man], Your blood be upon your own head; for you have testified against yourself, saying, I have slain the Lord's anointed." 
2Samuel1:17 David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and Jonathan his son," 
2Samuel1:18 And he commanded to teach it, [the lament of] the bow, to the Israelites. Behold, it is written in the Book of Jashar:" 
2Samuel1:19 Your glory, O Israel, is slain upon your high places. How have the mighty fallen!" 
2Samuel1:20 Tell it not in Gath, announce it not in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised exult." 
2Samuel1:21 O mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew or rain upon you, or fields with offerings. For there the shield of the mighty was defiled, the shield of Saul, as though he were not anointed with oil." 
2Samuel1:22 From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty." 
2Samuel1:23 Saul and Jonathan, beloved and lovely! In their lives and in their deaths they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions." 
2Samuel1:24 You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet with [other] delights, who put ornaments of gold upon your apparel." 
2Samuel1:25 How have the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan lies slain upon your high places. 
2Samuel1:26 I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; very pleasant have you been to me. Your love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women." 
2Samuel1:27 How have the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!" 
2Samuel2:1 AFTER THIS, David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said to him, Go up. David said, To which shall I go up? And He said, To Hebron." 
2Samuel2:2 So David went up there with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail, the widow of Nabal of Carmel." 
2Samuel2:3 And David brought up his men who were with him, each one with his household, and they dwelt in the towns of Hebron." 
2Samuel2:4 And the men of Judah came and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. They told David, The men of Jabesh-gilead buried Saul. [I Sam. 31:11-13.]" 
2Samuel2:5 And David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead, saying, May the Lord bless you because you showed kindness and loyalty to Saul your king and buried him." 
2Samuel2:6 And now may the Lord show loving-kindness and faithfulness to you. I also will do well by you because you have done this. 
2Samuel2:7 So now, let your hands be strengthened and be valiant, for your master Saul is dead, and the house of Judah has anointed me king over them." 
2Samuel2:8 Now Abner son of Ner, commander of Saul's army, took Ish-bosheth son of Saul and brought him over to Mahanaim." 
2Samuel2:9 And he made him king over Gilead, the Ashurites, Jezreel, Ephraim, Benjamin, and all Israel." 
2Samuel2:10 Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began his two-year reign over Israel. But the house of Judah followed David." 
2Samuel2:11 And David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah for seven years and six months. 
2Samuel2:12 And Abner son of Ner and the servants of Ish-bosheth son of Saul went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon. 
2Samuel2:13 Joab son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out also; and the two groups met by the pool of Gibeon, seating themselves with one group on either side of the pool." 
2Samuel2:14 And Abner said to Joab, Let the young men now arise and have a contest before us. And Joab said, Let them arise." 
2Samuel2:15 Then there arose and went over by number,twelve of Benjamin who were with Ish-bosheth son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David." 
2Samuel2:16 And each caught his opponent by the head and thrust his sword into his side; so they all fell together. Therefore that place was called the Field of Sharp Knives, which is at Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:17 A very fierce battle followed, and Abner and the men of Israel were beaten before the servants of David." 
2Samuel2:18 Three sons of Zeruiah [the half sister of David] were there: Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. Now Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe or antelope." 
2Samuel2:19 Asahel pursued Abner, and as he ran he turned not to the right hand or to the left from following Abner." 
2Samuel2:20 Then Abner looked behind him and said, Are you Asahel? He answered, I am." 
2Samuel2:21 Abner said to him, Turn aside to your right or left, and seize one of the young men and take his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following him." 
2Samuel2:22 And Abner said again to Asahel, Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the ground? How then should I be able to face Joab your brother?" 
2Samuel2:23 Asahel refused to turn aside; so Abner with the rear end of his spear smote him through the abdomen, and he fell and died where he fell. And all who came to the place where Asahel fell and died stood still." 
2Samuel2:24 But Joab and Abishai [his brothers] pursued Abner; the sun was going down as they came to the hill of Ammah, before Giah on the way to the wilderness of Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:25 And the Benjamites gathered together behind Abner and became one troop and took their stand on the top of a hill. 
2Samuel2:26 Then Abner called to Joab, Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that bitterness will be the result? How long will it be then before you bid the people to stop pursuing their brethren?" 
2Samuel2:27 Joab said, As God lives, if you had not spoken, surely the men would have stopped pursuing their brethren in the morning." 
2Samuel2:28 So Joab blew a trumpet, and all the people stood still and pursued Israel no more, nor did they fight any more." 
2Samuel2:29 Abner and his men went all night through the Arabah [plain], crossed the Jordan, and went through the whole Bithron [district of ravines] and came to Mahanaim." 
2Samuel2:30 Joab returned from pursuing Abner, and when he had gathered all the people together, there were missing of David's servants nineteen men besides Asahel." 
2Samuel2:31 But the servants of David had slain of Benjamin 360 of Abner's men. 
2Samuel2:32 And they took up Asahel and buried him in the tomb of his father at Bethlehem. And Joab and his men walked all night and came to Hebron at daybreak. 
2Samuel3:1 THERE WAS a long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. But David grew stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul grew weaker and weaker." 
2Samuel3:2 Sons were born to David in Hebron: his firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;" 
2Samuel3:3 His second, Chileab, by Abigail widow of Nabal of Carmel; the third, Absalom the son of Maacah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;" 
2Samuel3:4 The fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;" 
2Samuel3:5 And the sixth, Ithream, by Eglah, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron." 
2Samuel3:6 While there was war between the houses of Saul and David, Abner was making himself strong in the house of Saul." 
2Samuel3:7 Now Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah daughter of Aiah. And Ish-bosheth said to Abner, Why have you gone in to my father's concubine?" 
2Samuel3:8 Then Abner was very angry at the words of Ish-bosheth and said, Am I a dog's head [despicable and hostile] against Judah? This day I keep showing kindness and loyalty to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers, and his friends, and have not delivered you into the hands of David; and yet you charge me today with a fault concerning this woman!" 
2Samuel3:9 May God do so to Abner, and more also, if I do not do for David what the Lord has sworn to him," 
2Samuel3:10 To transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and set the throne of David over Israel and Judah from Dan to Beersheba. 
2Samuel3:11 And Ish-bosheth could not answer Abner a word, because he feared him." 
2Samuel3:12 And Abner sent messengers to David where he was [at Hebron], saying, Whose is the land? Make your league with me, and my hand shall be with you to bring all Israel over to you." 
2Samuel3:13 And David said, Good. I will make a league with you. But I require one thing of you: that is, you shall not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul's daughter, when you come to see me." 
2Samuel3:14 And David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, saying, Give me my wife Michal, whom I betrothed for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines." 
2Samuel3:15 And Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her [second] husband, from Paltiel son of Laish [to whom Saul had given her]." 
2Samuel3:16 But her husband went with her, weeping behind her all the way to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, Go back. And he did so." 
2Samuel3:17 Abner talked with the seniors of Israel, saying, In times past you sought to make David king over you." 
2Samuel3:18 Now then, do it! For the Lord has spoken of David, saying, By the hand of My servant David I will save My people Israel from the hands of the Philistines and of all their enemies. [I Sam. 9:16.]" 
2Samuel3:19 Abner also spoke to [the men of] Benjamin. Then [he] went to Hebron to tell David all that seemed good to Israel and the whole house of Benjamin to do. 
2Samuel3:20 So Abner came to David at Hebron, and twenty men along with him. And David made Abner and the men with him a feast." 
2Samuel3:21 Abner said to David, I will go and gather all Israel to my lord the king, that they may make a league with you, and that you may reign over all that your heart desires. So David sent Abner away in peace." 
2Samuel3:22 Then the servants of David came with Joab from pursuing a troop and brought much spoil with them. But Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace." 
2Samuel3:23 When Joab and all the army with him had come, it was told to Joab, Abner son of Ner came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he is gone in peace." 
2Samuel3:24 Then Joab came to the king and said, What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you. Why is it you have sent him away and he is quite gone?" 
2Samuel3:25 You know that Abner son of Ner came to deceive you and to know your going out and coming in and all you are doing. 
2Samuel3:26 When Joab came from seeing David, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah; but David did not know it." 
2Samuel3:27 And when Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside to the center of the gate to speak to him privately, and there he smote Abner in the abdomen, so that he died to avenge the blood of Asahel, Joab's brother." 
2Samuel3:28 When David heard of it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before the Lord forever of the blood of Abner son of Ner." 
2Samuel3:29 Let it fall on the head of Joab and on all his father's house; and let the house of Joab never be without one who has a discharge or is a leper or walks with a crutch or is a distaff holder [unfit for war] or who falls by the sword or lacks food! 
2Samuel3:30 So Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner because he had slain their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle. 
2Samuel3:31 And David said to Joab and to all the people with him, Rend your clothes, gird yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. And King David followed the bier." 
2Samuel3:32 They buried Abner in Hebron. And the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept." 
2Samuel3:33 And the king lamented over Abner and said, Should Abner die as a fool dies?" 
2Samuel3:34 Your hands were not bound or your feet put into fetters; as a man falls before wicked men, so you fell. And all the people wept again over him." 
2Samuel3:35 All the people came to urge David to eat food while it was yet day; but David took an oath, saying, May God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread or anything else, till the sun is down." 
2Samuel3:36 And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them, as whatever the king did pleased all the people." 
2Samuel3:37 For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not the king's will to slay Abner son of Ner. 
2Samuel3:38 King David said to his servants, Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel?" 
2Samuel3:39 And I am this day weak, though anointed [but not crowned] king; these sons of Zeruiah are too hard for me. May the Lord repay the evildoer according to his wickedness!" 
2Samuel4:1 WHEN ISH-BOSHETH, Saul's son [king over Israel], heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, his courage failed, and all the Israelites were troubled and dismayed." 
2Samuel4:2 Saul's son had two men who were captains of raiding bands. One was named Baanah and the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite of Benjamin,for Beeroth also was reckoned to Benjamin," 
2Samuel4:3 And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim and have been sojourners there to this day. 
2Samuel4:4 Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son who was a cripple in his feet. He was five years old when the news came out of Jezreel [of the deaths] of Saul and Jonathan. And the boy's nurse took him up and fled; and in her haste, he fell and became lame. His name was Mephibosheth." 
2Samuel4:5 Now the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went about in the heat of the day to the house of Ish-bosheth, who lay resting on his bed at noon." 
2Samuel4:6 And they came into the interior of the house as though they were delivering wheat, and they smote him in the body; and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped." 
2Samuel4:7 Now when they had come into the house and he lay on his bed in his bedroom, they [not only] smote and slew him, [but] beheaded him and took his head and went by the way of the plain all night." 
2Samuel4:8 And they brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, Behold, the head of Ish-bosheth son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life; and the Lord has avenged my lord the king this day on Saul and on his offspring." 
2Samuel4:9 And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, As the Lord lives, Who redeemed my life out of all adversity," 
2Samuel4:10 When one told me, Behold, Saul is dead, thinking he was bringing good news, I seized and slew him in Ziklag who expected me to give him a reward for his news." 
2Samuel4:11 How much more,when wicked men have slain a just man in his own house on his bed,shall I not now require his blood of your hand and remove you from the earth! 
2Samuel4:12 David commanded his young men, and they slew them and cut off their hands and feet and hanged them over the pool in Hebron. But they took Ish-bosheth's head and buried it in Hebron in the tomb of Abner [his relative and once chief supporter]." 
2Samuel5:1 THEN ALL the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh." 
2Samuel5:2 In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And the Lord told you, You shall feed My people Israel and be prince over [them]. [I Sam. 15:27-29; 16:1.]" 
2Samuel5:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David made a covenant with them [there] before the Lord, and they anointed [him] king over Israel." 
2Samuel5:4 David was thirty years old when he began his forty-year reign. 
2Samuel5:5 In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah." 
2Samuel5:6 And the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who said to David, You shall not enter here, for the blind and the lame will prevent you; they thought, David cannot come in here." 
2Samuel5:7 Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the City of David." 
2Samuel5:8 David said on that day, Whoever smites the Jebusites, let him get up through the water shaft and smite the lame and the blind who are detested by David's soul. So they say, The blind and the lame shall not come into the house." 
2Samuel5:9 So David dwelt in the stronghold and called it the City of David. And he built round about from the Millo and inward. 
2Samuel5:10 David became greater and greater, for the Lord God of hosts was with him." 
2Samuel5:11 Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, carpenters, and masons; and they built David a house." 
2Samuel5:12 And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel and that He had exalted his kingdom for His people Israel's sake. 
2Samuel5:13 And David took more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem, after he came from Hebron, and other sons and daughters were born to [him]." 
2Samuel5:14 And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
2Samuel5:15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia," 
2Samuel5:16 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet." 
2Samuel5:17 When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, they all went up to find [him], but [he] heard of it and went down to the stronghold." 
2Samuel5:18 The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the Valley of Rephaim. 
2Samuel5:19 David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will You deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said to David, Go up, for I will surely deliver [them] into your hand." 
2Samuel5:20 And David came to Baal-perazim, and he smote them there, and said, The Lord has broken through my enemies before me, like the bursting out of great waters. So he called the name of that place Baal-perazim [Lord of breaking through]." 
2Samuel5:21 There the Philistines left their images, and David and his men took them away." 
2Samuel5:22 The Philistines came up again and spread themselves out in the Valley of Rephaim. 
2Samuel5:23 When David inquired of the Lord, He said, You shall not go up, but go around behind them and come upon them over opposite the mulberry (or balsam) trees." 
2Samuel5:24 And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees, then bestir yourselves, for then has the Lord gone out before you to smite the army of the Philistines." 
2Samuel5:25 And David did as the Lord had commanded him, and smote the Philistines from Geba to Gezer." 
2Samuel6:1 AGAIN DAVID gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000." 
2Samuel6:2 And [he] arose and went with all the people who were with him to Baale-judah [Kiriath-jearim] to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, Who sits enthroned above the cherubim." 
2Samuel6:3 And they set the ark of God upon a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill; and Uzzah and Ahio, sons of Abinadab, drove the new cart." 
2Samuel6:4 And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill, with the ark of God; and Ahio went before the ark." 
2Samuel6:5 And David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord with all their might, with songs, lyres, harps, tambourines, castanets, and cymbals." 
2Samuel6:6 And when they came to Nacon's threshing floor, Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled and shook it." 
2Samuel6:7 And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for touching the ark, and he died there by the ark of God." 
2Samuel6:8 David was grieved and offended because the Lord had broken forth upon Uzzah, and that place is called Perez-uzzah [the breaking forth upon Uzzah] to this day." 
2Samuel6:9 David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How can the ark of the Lord come to me?" 
2Samuel6:10 So David was not willing to take the ark of the Lord to him into the City of David; but he took it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
2Samuel6:11 And the ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite for three months, and the Lord blessed Obed-edom and all his household." 
2Samuel6:12 And it was told King David, The Lord has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that belongs to him, because of the ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the City of David with rejoicing;" 
2Samuel6:13 And when those who bore the ark of the Lord had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling." 
2Samuel6:14 And David danced before the Lord with all his might, clad in a linen ephod [a priest's upper garment]." 
2Samuel6:15 So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. 
2Samuel6:16 As the ark of the Lord came into the City of David, Michal, Saul's daughter [David's wife], looked out of the window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the Lord, and she despised him in her heart." 
2Samuel6:17 They brought in the ark of the Lord and set it in its place inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord." 
2Samuel6:18 When David had finished offering the burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name [and presence] of the Lord of hosts," 
2Samuel6:19 And distributed among all the people, the whole multitude of Israel, both to men and women, to each a cake of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins. So all the people departed, each to his house." 
2Samuel6:20 Then David returned to bless his household. And [his wife] Michal daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, who stripped himself of his kingly robes and uncovered himself in the eyes of his servants' maids as one of the worthless fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!" 
2Samuel6:21 David said to Michal, It was before the Lord, Who chose me above your father and all his house to appoint me as prince over Israel, the people of the Lord. Therefore will I make merry [in pure enjoyment] before the Lord." 
2Samuel6:22 I will be still more lightly esteemed than this, and will humble and lower myself in my own sight [and yours]. But by the maids you mentioned, I will be held in honor." 
2Samuel6:23 And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death. 
2Samuel7:1 WHEN KING David dwelt in his house and the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies," 
2Samuel7:2 The king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within curtains." 
2Samuel7:3 And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart, for the Lord is with you." 
2Samuel7:4 That night the word of the Lord came to Nathan, saying," 
2Samuel7:5 Go and tell My servant David, Thus says the Lord: Shall you build Me a house in which to dwell?" 
2Samuel7:6 For I have not dwelt in a house since I brought the Israelites out of Egypt to this day, but have moved about with a tent for My dwelling." 
2Samuel7:7 In all the places where I have moved with all the Israelites, did I speak a word to any from the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to be shepherd of My people Israel, asking, Why do you not build Me a house of cedar?" 
2Samuel7:8 So now say this to My servant David, Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be prince over My people Israel." 
2Samuel7:9 And I was with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a great name, like [that] of the great men of the earth." 
2Samuel7:10 And I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own and be moved no more. And wicked men shall afflict them no more, as formerly" 
2Samuel7:11 And as from the time that I appointed judges over My people Israel; and I will cause you to rest from all your enemies. Also the Lord declares to you that He will make for you a house: 
2Samuel7:12 And when your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, I will set up after you your offspring who shall be born to you, and I will establish his kingdom." 
2Samuel7:13 He shall build a house for My Name [and My Presence], and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever." 
2Samuel7:14 I will be his Father, and he shall be My son. When he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the sons of men." 
2Samuel7:15 But My mercy and loving-kindness shall not depart from him, as I took [them] from Saul, whom I took away from before you." 
2Samuel7:16 And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before you; your throne shall be established forever. 
2Samuel7:17 In accordance with all these words and all this vision Nathan spoke to David. 
2Samuel7:18 Then King David went in and sat before the Lord, and said, Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house, that You have brought me this far?" 
2Samuel7:19 Then as if this were a little thing in Your eyes, O Lord God, You have spoken also of Your servant's house in the far distant future. And this is the law for man, O Lord God!" 
2Samuel7:20 What more can David say to You? For You know Your servant, O Lord God." 
2Samuel7:21 Because of Your promise and as Your own heart dictates, You have done all these astounding things to make Your servant know and understand." 
2Samuel7:22 Therefore You are great, O Lord God; for none is like You, nor is there any God besides You, according to all [You have made] our ears to hear." 
2Samuel7:23 What [other] one nation on earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to be a people for Himself and to make for Himself a name? You have done great and terrible things for Yourself and for Your land, before Your people, whom You redeemed and delivered for Yourself from Egypt, from the nations and their gods." 
2Samuel7:24 And You have established for Yourself Your people Israel to be Your people forever, and You, Lord, became their God." 
2Samuel7:25 Now, O Lord God, confirm forever the word You have given as to Your servant and his house; and do as You have said," 
2Samuel7:26 And Your name [and presence] shall be magnified forever, saying, The Lord of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of Your servant David will be made firm before You." 
2Samuel7:27 For You, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed this to Your servant: I will build you a house. So Your servant has found courage to pray this prayer to You." 
2Samuel7:28 And now, O Lord God, You are God, and Your words are truth, and You have promised this good thing to Your servant." 
2Samuel7:29 Therefore now let it please You to bless the house of Your servant, that it may continue forever before You; for You, O Lord God, have spoken it, and with Your blessing let [his] house be blessed forever." 
2Samuel8:1 AFTER THIS David smote the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Metheg-ammah out of the hands of the Philistines." 
2Samuel8:2 He defeated Moab, and measured them with a line, making them lie down on the ground; two lines he measured to be put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute." 
2Samuel8:3 David also defeated Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to restore his power at the river [Euphrates]." 
2Samuel8:4 David took from him 1,700 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, except he reserved enough of them for 100 chariots." 
2Samuel8:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew 22,000 of them." 
2Samuel8:6 David put garrisons in Syrian Damascus, and the Syrians became [his] servants and brought tribute. The Lord preserved and gave victory to David wherever he went." 
2Samuel8:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel8:8 And from Betah and Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David exacted an immense amount of bronze." 
2Samuel8:9 When Toi king of Hamath heard about David's defeat of all the forces of Hadadezer," 
2Samuel8:10 [He] sent Joram his son to King David to salute and congratulate him about his battle and defeat of Hadadezer. For Hadadezer had had wars with Toi. Joram brought vessels of silver, gold, and bronze." 
2Samuel8:11 These King David dedicated to the Lord, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated from all the nations he subdued:" 
2Samuel8:12 From Syria, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, Amalek, and from the spoil of Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah." 
2Samuel8:13 David won renown. When he returned he slew 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt." 
2Samuel8:14 He put garrisons throughout all Edom, and all the Edomites became his servants. And the Lord preserved and gave victory to [him] wherever he went." 
2Samuel8:15 So David reigned over all Israel, and executed justice and righteousness for all his people." 
2Samuel8:16 Joab son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder; 
2Samuel8:17 Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech son of Abiathar were the [chief] priests, and Seraiah was the scribe;" 
2Samuel8:18 Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over both the Cherethites and Pelethites [the king's bodyguards]; and David's sons were chief [confidential] assistants to the king. 
2Samuel9:1 AND DAVID said, Is there still anyone left of the house of Saul to whom I may show kindness for Jonathan's sake?" 
2Samuel9:2 And of the house of Saul there was a servant whose name was Ziba. When they had called him to David, he said to him, Are you Ziba? He said, I, your servant, am he." 
2Samuel9:3 The king said, Is there not still someone of the house of Saul to whom I may show the [unfailing, unsought, unlimited] mercy and kindness of God? Ziba replied, Jonathan has yet a son who is lame in his feet. [I Sam. 20:14-17.]" 
2Samuel9:4 And the king said, Where is he? Ziba replied, He is in the house of Machir son of Ammiel in Lo-debar." 
2Samuel9:5 Then King David sent and brought him from the house of Machir son of Ammiel at Lo-debar. 
2Samuel9:6 And Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David and fell on his face and did obeisance. David said, Mephibosheth! And he answered, Behold your servant!" 
2Samuel9:7 David said to him, Fear not, for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan your father's sake, and will restore to you all the land of Saul your father [grandfather], and you shall eat at my table always." 
2Samuel9:8 And [the cripple] bowed himself and said, What is your servant, that you should look upon such a dead dog as I am?" 
2Samuel9:9 Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, I have given your master's son [grandson] all that belonged to Saul and to all his house." 
2Samuel9:10 And you shall till the land for him, you, your sons, and your servants, and you shall bring in the produce, that your master's heir may have food to eat; but Mephibosheth, your master's son [grandson], shall eat always at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants." 
2Samuel9:11 Then Ziba said to the king, Your servant will do according to all my lord the king commands. So Mephibosheth ate at David's table as one of the king's sons." 
2Samuel9:12 Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Micha. And all who dwelt in Ziba's house were servants to Mephibosheth. 
2Samuel9:13 So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he ate continually at the king's table, [even though] he was lame in both feet." 
2Samuel10:1 LATER, THE king of the Ammonites died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead." 
2Samuel10:2 David said, I will show kindness to Hanun son of Nahash, as his father did to me. So David sent his servants to console him for his father's death; and they came into the land of the Ammonites," 
2Samuel10:3 But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun their lord, Do you think that it is because David honors your father that he has sent comforters to you? Has he not rather sent his servants to you to search the city, spy it out, and overthrow it?" 
2Samuel10:4 So Hanun took David's servants and shaved off half their beards and cut off their garments in the middle at their hips and sent them away. 
2Samuel10:5 When it was told David, he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards are grown, and then return." 
2Samuel10:6 And when the Ammonites saw that they had made themselves obnoxious and disgusting to David, they sent and hired the Syrians of Beth-rehob and of Zobah, 20,000 foot soldiers, and of the king of Maacah 1,000 men, and of Tob 12,000 men." 
2Samuel10:7 When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men." 
2Samuel10:8 And the Ammonites came out and put the battle in array at the entrance of the gate, but the Syrians of Zobah and of Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah were stationed by themselves in the open country." 
2Samuel10:9 When Joab saw that the battlefront was against him before and behind, he picked some of all the choice men of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians." 
2Samuel10:10 The rest of the men Joab gave over to Abishai his brother, that he might put them in array against the Ammonites." 
2Samuel10:11 Joab said, If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, I will come and help you." 
2Samuel10:12 Be of good courage; let us play the man for our people and the cities of our God. And may the Lord do what seems good to Him. 
2Samuel10:13 And Joab and the people who were with him drew near to battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him." 
2Samuel10:14 And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians had fled, they also fled before Abishai and entered the city. So Joab returned from battling against the Ammonites and came to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel10:15 When the Syrians saw that they were defeated by Israel, they gathered together." 
2Samuel10:16 Hadadezer sent and brought the Syrians who were beyond the river [Euphrates]; and they came to Helam, with Shobach commander of the army of Hadadezer leading them." 
2Samuel10:17 When David was told, he gathered all Israel, crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. Then the Syrians set themselves in array against David and fought with him." 
2Samuel10:18 The Syrians fled before Israel, and David slew of [them] the men of 700 chariots and 40,000 horsemen and smote Shobach captain of their army, who died there." 
2Samuel10:19 And when all the kings serving Hadadezer saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Syrians were afraid to help the Ammonites any more." 
2Samuel11:1 IN THE spring, when kings go forth to battle, David sent Joab with his servants and all Israel, and they ravaged the Ammonites [country] and besieged Rabbah. But David remained in Jerusalem." 
2Samuel11:2 One evening David arose from his couch and was walking on the roof of the king's house, when from there he saw a woman bathing; and she was very lovely to behold." 
2Samuel11:3 David sent and inquired about the woman. One said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite?" 
2Samuel11:4 And David sent messengers and took her. And she came in to him, and he lay with her,for she was purified from her uncleanness. Then she returned to her house." 
2Samuel11:5 And the woman became pregnant and sent and told David, I am with child." 
2Samuel11:6 David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. So Joab sent [him] Uriah." 
2Samuel11:7 When Uriah had come to him, David asked him how Joab was, how the people fared, and how the war progressed." 
2Samuel11:8 David said to Uriah, Go down to your house and wash your feet. Uriah went out of the king's house, and there followed him a mess of food [a gift] from the king." 
2Samuel11:9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord and did not go down to his house. 
2Samuel11:10 When they told David, Uriah did not go down to his house, David said to Uriah, Have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?" 
2Samuel11:11 Uriah said to David, The ark and Israel and Judah live in tents, and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are camping in the open field. Shall I then go to my house to eat and drink and lie with my wife? As you live and as my soul lives, I will not do this thing." 
2Samuel11:12 And David said to Uriah, Remain here today also, and tomorrow I will let you depart. So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next." 
2Samuel11:13 David invited him, and he ate with him and drank, so that he made him drunk; but that night he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord and did not go down to his house." 
2Samuel11:14 In the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it with Uriah. 
2Samuel11:15 And he wrote in the letter, Put Uriah in the front line of the heaviest fighting and withdraw from him, that he may be struck down and die." 
2Samuel11:16 So when Joab was besieging the city, he assigned Uriah opposite where he knew the enemy's most valiant men were." 
2Samuel11:17 And the men of the city came out and fought with Joab, and some of the servants of David fell. Uriah the Hittite died also." 
2Samuel11:18 Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war. 
2Samuel11:19 And he charged the messenger, When you have finished reporting matters of the war to the king," 
2Samuel11:20 Then if the king's anger rises and he says to you, Why did you go so near to the city to fight? Did you not know they would shoot from the wall?" 
2Samuel11:21 Who killed Abimelech son of Jerubbesheth (Gideon)? Did not a woman cast an upper millstone upon him from the wall, so that he died in Thebez? Why did you go near the wall? Then say, Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also. [Judg. 9:35, 53.]" 
2Samuel11:22 So the messenger went and told David all for which Joab had sent him. 
2Samuel11:23 The messenger said to David, Surely the men prevailed against us and came out to us in to the field, but we were upon them even to the entrance of the gate." 
2Samuel11:24 Then the archers shot at your servants from the wall. Some of the king's servants are dead, and your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also." 
2Samuel11:25 Then David said to the messenger, Say to Joab, Let not this thing disturb you, for the sword devours one as well as another. Strengthen your attack upon the city and overthrow it. And encourage Joab." 
2Samuel11:26 When Uriah's wife heard that her husband was dead, she mourned for Uriah." 
2Samuel11:27 And when the mourning was past, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done was evil in the sight of the Lord." 
2Samuel12:1 AND THE Lord sent Nathan to David. He came and said to him, There were two men in a city, one rich and the other poor." 
2Samuel12:2 The rich man had very many flocks and herds," 
2Samuel12:3 But the poor man had nothing but one little ewe lamb which he had bought and brought up, and it grew up with him and his children. It ate of his own morsel, drank from his own cup, lay in his bosom, and was like a daughter to him." 
2Samuel12:4 Now a traveler came to the rich man, and to avoid taking one of his own flock or herd to prepare for the wayfaring man who had come to him, he took the poor man's lamb and prepared it for his guest." 
2Samuel12:5 Then David's anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, As the Lord lives, the man who has done this is a son [worthy] of death." 
2Samuel12:6 He shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing and had no pity." 
2Samuel12:7 Then Nathan said to David, You are the man! Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: I anointed you king of Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul." 
2Samuel12:8 And I gave you your master's house, and your master's wives into your bosom, and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah; and if that had been too little, I would have added that much again." 
2Samuel12:9 Why have you despised the commandment of the Lord, doing evil in His sight? You have slain Uriah the Hittite with the sword and have taken his wife to be your wife. You have murdered him with the sword of the Ammonites. [Lev. 20:10; 24:17.]" 
2Samuel12:10 Now, therefore, the sword shall never depart from your house, because [you have not only despised My command, but] you have despised Me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife." 
2Samuel12:11 Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house; and I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun." 
2Samuel12:12 For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. [Fulfilled in II Sam. 16:21, 22.]" 
2Samuel12:13 And David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, The Lord also has put away your sin; you shall not die. [Ps. 51.]" 
2Samuel12:14 Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the Lord and given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, the child that is born to you shall surely die." 
2Samuel12:15 Then Nathan departed to his house. And the Lord struck the child that Uriah's widow bore to David, and he was very sick." 
2Samuel12:16 David therefore besought God for the child; and David fasted and went in and lay all night [repeatedly] on the floor. 
2Samuel12:17 His older house servants arose [in the night] and went to him to raise him up from the floor, but he would not, nor did he eat food with them." 
2Samuel12:18 And on the seventh day the child died. David's servants feared to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, While the child was yet alive, we spoke to him and he would not listen to our voices; will he then harm himself if we tell him the child is dead?" 
2Samuel12:19 But when David saw that his servants whispered, he perceived that the child was dead. So he said to them, Is the child dead? And they said, He is." 
2Samuel12:20 Then David arose from the floor, washed, anointed himself, changed his apparel, and went into the house of the Lord and worshiped. Then he came to his own house, and when he asked, they set food before him, and he ate." 
2Samuel12:21 Then his servants said to him, What is this that you have done? You fasted and wept while the child was alive, but when the child was dead, you arose and ate food." 
2Samuel12:22 David said, While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept; for I said, Who knows whether the Lord will be gracious to me and let the child live?" 
2Samuel12:23 But now he is dead; why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me." 
2Samuel12:24 David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and went to her and lay with her; and she bore a son, and she called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved [the child];" 
2Samuel12:25 He sent [a message] by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and [Nathan] called the boy's [special] name Jedidiah [beloved of the Lord], because the Lord [loved the child]." 
2Samuel12:26 Now Joab fought against Rabbah of the Ammonites and took the royal city. 
2Samuel12:27 And Joab sent messengers to David and said, I have fought against Rabbah, and have taken the city of waters." 
2Samuel12:28 Now therefore assemble the rest of the men, encamp against the city, and take it, lest I take the city, and it be called after my name." 
2Samuel12:29 So David gathered all the men, went to Rabbah, fought against it, and took it." 
2Samuel12:30 And he took the crown of their king [of Malcham] from his head; the weight of it was a talent of gold, and in it were precious stones; and it was set on David's head. And he brought forth exceedingly much spoil from the city." 
2Samuel12:31 And he brought forth the people who were there, and put them to [work with] saws and iron threshing sledges and axes, and made them labor at the brickkiln. And he did this to all the Ammonite cities. Then [he] and all the men returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel13:1 ABSALOM SON of David had a fair sister whose name was Tamar, and Amnon [her half brother] son of David loved her." 
2Samuel13:2 And Amnon was so troubled that he fell sick for his [half] sister Tamar, for she was a virgin, and Amnon thought it impossible for him to do anything to her." 
2Samuel13:3 But Amnon had a friend whose name was Jonadab son of Shimeah, David's brother; and Jonadab was a very crafty man." 
2Samuel13:4 He said to Amnon, Why are you, the king's son, so lean and weak-looking from day to day? Will you not tell me? And Amnon said to him, I love Tamar, my [half] brother Absalom's sister." 
2Samuel13:5 Jonadab said to him, Go to bed and pretend you are sick; and when your father David comes to see you, say to him, Let my sister Tamar come and give me food and prepare it in my sight, that I may see it and eat it from her hand." 
2Samuel13:6 So Amnon lay down and pretended to be sick; and when the king came to see him, Amnon said to the king, I pray you, let my sister Tamar come and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand." 
2Samuel13:7 Then David sent home and told Tamar, Go now to your brother Amnon's house and prepare food for him." 
2Samuel13:8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house, and he was in bed. And she took dough and kneaded it and made cakes in his sight and baked them." 
2Samuel13:9 She took the pan and emptied it out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, Send everyone out from me. So everyone went out from him." 
2Samuel13:10 Then Amnon said to Tamar, Bring the food here into the bedroom, so I may eat from your hand. So Tamar took the cakes she had made and brought them into the room to Amnon her brother." 
2Samuel13:11 And when she brought them to him, he took hold of her and said, Come lie with me, my sister." 
2Samuel13:12 She replied, No, my brother! Do not force and humble me, for no such thing should be done in Israel! Do not do this foolhardy, scandalous thing! [Gen. 34:7.]" 
2Samuel13:13 And I, how could I rid myself of my shame? And you, you will be [considered] one of the stupid fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray you, speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you." 
2Samuel13:14 But he would not listen to her, and being stronger than she, he forced her and lay with her." 
2Samuel13:15 Then Amnon hated her exceedingly, so that his hatred for her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, Get up and get out!" 
2Samuel13:16 But she said, No! This great evil of sending me away is worse than what you did to me. But he would not listen to her." 
2Samuel13:17 He called the servant who served him and said, Put this woman out of my presence now, and bolt the door after her!" 
2Samuel13:18 Now [Tamar] was wearing a long robe with sleeves and of various colors, for in such robes were the king's virgin daughters clad of old. Then Amnon's servant brought her out and bolted the door after her." 
2Samuel13:19 And [she] put ashes on her head and tore the long, sleeved robe which she wore, and she laid her hand on her head and went away shrieking and wailing." 
2Samuel13:20 And Absalom her brother said to her, Has your brother Amnon been with you? Be quiet now, my sister. He is your brother; take not this matter to heart. So Tamar dwelt in her brother Absalom's house, a desolate woman." 
2Samuel13:21 But when King David heard of all these things, he was very angry." 
2Samuel13:22 And Absalom spoke to Amnon neither good nor bad; for Absalom hated Amnon because he had humbled his sister Tamar. 
2Samuel13:23 After two full years Absalom had sheepshearers at Baal-hazor near Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king's sons." 
2Samuel13:24 Absalom came to the king and said, Behold, your servant has sheepshearers; I pray you, let the king and his servants go with your servant." 
2Samuel13:25 And the king said to Absalom, No, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome to you. Absalom urged David; still he would not go, but he blessed him." 
2Samuel13:26 Then said Absalom, If not, I pray you, let my brother Amnon go with us. And the king said to him, Why should he go with you?" 
2Samuel13:27 But Absalom urged him, and he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him." 
2Samuel13:28 Now Absalom commanded his servants, Notice now, when Amnon's heart is merry with wine and when I say to you, Strike Amnon, then kill him. Fear not; have I not commanded you? Be courageous and brave." 
2Samuel13:29 And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose and every man mounted his mule and fled. 
2Samuel13:30 While they were on the way, the word came to David, Absalom has killed all the king's sons, and not one of them is left." 
2Samuel13:31 Then the king arose and tore his garments and lay on the floor; and all his servants standing by tore their clothes. 
2Samuel13:32 But Jonadab son of Shimeah, David's brother, said, Let not my lord suppose they have killed all the king's sons; for Amnon only is dead. This purpose has shown itself on Absalom's determined mouth ever since the day Amnon humiliated his sister Tamar." 
2Samuel13:33 So let not my lord the king take the thing to heart and think all the king's sons are dead; for Amnon only is dead. 
2Samuel13:34 But Absalom fled. And the young man who kept the watch looked up, and behold, many people were coming by the way of the hillside behind him." 
2Samuel13:35 And Jonadab said to the king, See, the king's sons are coming. It is as your servant said." 
2Samuel13:36 And as he finished speaking, the king's sons came and lifted up their voices and wept; and the king also and all his servants wept very bitterly." 
2Samuel13:37 But Absalom fled and went to [his mother's father] Talmai son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son [Amnon] every day." 
2Samuel13:38 So Absalom fled to Geshur and was there three years. 
2Samuel13:39 And the spirit of King David longed to go forth to Absalom, for he was comforted about Amnon, seeing that he was dead." 
2Samuel14:1 NOW JOAB son of Zeruiah knew that the king's heart was toward Absalom. 
2Samuel14:2 And Joab sent to Tekoah and brought from there a wise woman and said to her, Pretend to be a mourner; put on mourning apparel, do not anoint yourself with oil, but act like a woman who has long been mourning for the dead." 
2Samuel14:3 And go to the king and speak thus to him. And Joab told her what to say. 
2Samuel14:4 When the woman of Tekoah spoke to the king, she fell on her face to the ground and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king!" 
2Samuel14:5 The king asked her, What troubles you? She said, I am a widow; my husband is dead." 
2Samuel14:6 And your handmaid had two sons, and they quarreled with one another in the field. There was no one to separate them, and one struck the other and killed him." 
2Samuel14:7 And behold, our whole family has risen against your handmaid, and they say, Deliver him who slew his brother, that we may kill him for the life of his brother whom he slew; and so they would destroy the heir also. And so quenching my coal which is left, they would leave to my husband neither name nor remnant upon the earth." 
2Samuel14:8 David said to the woman, Go home, and I will give orders concerning you." 
2Samuel14:9 And the woman of Tekoah said to the king, My lord, O king, let the guilt be on me and on my father's house; let the king and his throne be guiltless." 
2Samuel14:10 The king said, If anyone says anything to you, bring him to me, and he shall not touch you again." 
2Samuel14:11 Then she said, I pray you, let the king remember the Lord your God, that the avenger of blood destroy not any more, lest they destroy my son. And David said, As the Lord lives, there shall not one hair of your son fall to the earth." 
2Samuel14:12 Then the woman said, Let your handmaid, I pray you, speak one word to my lord the king. He said, Say on." 
2Samuel14:13 [She] said, Why then have you planned such a thing against God's people? For in speaking this word the king is like one who is guilty, in that [he] does not bring home his banished one." 
2Samuel14:14 We must all die; we are like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again. And God does not take away life, but devises means so that he who is banished may not be an utter outcast from Him." 
2Samuel14:15 And now I have come to speak of this thing to my lord the king because the people have made me afraid. And I thought, I will speak to the king; it may be that he will perform the request of his servant." 
2Samuel14:16 For the king will hear to deliver his handmaid from the hand of the man who would destroy me and my son together from [Israel] the inheritance of God. 
2Samuel14:17 And the woman said, The word of my lord the king will now give me rest and security, for as an angel of God is my lord the king to hear and discern good and evil. May the Lord your God be with you!" 
2Samuel14:18 Then the king said to the woman, Hide not from me anything I ask you. And the woman said, Let my lord the king speak." 
2Samuel14:19 The king said, Is the hand of Joab with you in all this? And the woman answered, As your soul lives, my lord the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from anything my lord the king has said. It was your servant Joab who directed me; he put all these words in my mouth." 
2Samuel14:20 In order to change the course of matters [between Absalom and his father] your servant Joab did this. But my lord has wisdom like the wisdom of the angel of God,to know all things that are on the earth. 
2Samuel14:21 Then the king said to Joab, Behold now, I grant this; go, bring back the young man Absalom." 
2Samuel14:22 And Joab fell to the ground on his face and did obeisance and thanked the king. And Joab said, Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord, O king, in that the king has performed the request of his servant." 
2Samuel14:23 So Joab arose, went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel14:24 And the king said, Let him go to his own house, and let him not see my face. So Absalom went to his own house and did not see the king's face." 
2Samuel14:25 But in all Israel there was none so much to be praised for his beauty as Absalom; from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him. 
2Samuel14:26 And when he cut the hair of his head, he weighed it,for at each year's end he cut it, because its weight was a burden to him,and it weighed 200 shekels by the king's weight." 
2Samuel14:27 There were born to Absalom three sons and one daughter whose name was Tamar; she was a beautiful woman. 
2Samuel14:28 Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem and did not see the king's face. 
2Samuel14:29 So Absalom sent for Joab to send him to the king, but he would not come to him; even when he sent again the second time, he would not come." 
2Samuel14:30 Therefore Absalom said to his servants, See, Joab's field is near mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire. So Absalom's servants set the field afire." 
2Samuel14:31 Then Joab arose and went to Absalom at his house and said to him, Why have your servants set my field on fire?" 
2Samuel14:32 Absalom answered Joab, I sent to you, saying, Come here, that I may send you to the king to ask, Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me to be there still. Now therefore [Joab], let me see the king, and if there is iniquity and guilt in me, let him kill me." 
2Samuel14:33 So Joab came to the king and told him. And when David had called for Absalom, he came to him and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king; and [David] kissed Absalom." 
2Samuel15:1 AFTER THIS, Absalom got a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him." 
2Samuel15:2 And [he] rose up early and stood beside the gateway; and when any man who had a controversy came to the king for judgment, Absalom called to him, Of what city are you? And he would say, Your servant is of such and such a tribe of Israel." 
2Samuel15:3 Absalom would say to him, Your claims are good and right, but there is no man appointed as the king's agent to hear you." 
2Samuel15:4 Absalom added, Oh, that I were judge in the land! Then every man with any suit or cause might come to me and I would do him justice!" 
2Samuel15:5 And whenever a man came near to do obeisance to him, he would put out his hand, take hold of him, and kiss him." 
2Samuel15:6 Thus Absalom did to all Israel who came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. 
2Samuel15:7 And after [four] years, Absalom said to the king, I pray you, let me go to Hebron [his birthplace] and pay my vow to the Lord." 
2Samuel15:8 For your servant vowed while I dwelt at Geshur in Syria, If the Lord will bring me again to Jerusalem, then I will serve the Lord [by offering a sacrifice]." 
2Samuel15:9 And the king said to him, Go in peace. So he arose and went to Hebron." 
2Samuel15:10 But Absalom sent secret messengers throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then say, Absalom is king at Hebron." 
2Samuel15:11 With Absalom went 200 men from Jerusalem, who were invited [as guests to his sacrificial feast]; and they went in their simplicity, and they knew not a thing." 
2Samuel15:12 And while Absalom was offering the sacrifices, he sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counselor, from his city Giloh. And the conspiracy was strong; the people with Absalom increased continually." 
2Samuel15:13 And there came a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the men of Israel have gone after Absalom." 
2Samuel15:14 David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, Arise and let us flee, or else none of us will escape from Absalom. Make haste to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly and bring evil upon us and smite the city with the sword." 
2Samuel15:15 And the king's servants said to the king, Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the king says." 
2Samuel15:16 So the king and all his household after him went forth. But he left ten women who were concubines to keep the house. [II Sam. 12:11; 20:3.] 
2Samuel15:17 The king went forth with all the people after him, and halted at the last house." 
2Samuel15:18 All David's servants passed on beside him, along with [his bodyguards] all the Cherethites, Pelethites; also all the Gittites, 600 men who came after him from Gath, passed on before the king." 
2Samuel15:19 The king said to Ittai the Gittite, Why do you go with us also? Return to your place and remain with the king [Absalom], for you are a foreigner and an exile." 
2Samuel15:20 Since you came only yesterday, should I make you go up and down with us? Since I must go where I may, you return, and take back your brethren with you. May loving-kindness and faithfulness be with you." 
2Samuel15:21 But Ittai answered the king, As the Lord lives, and as my lord the king lives, wherever my lord the king shall be, whether for death or life, even there also will your servant be." 
2Samuel15:22 So David said to Ittai, Go on and pass over [the Kidron]. And Ittai the Gittite passed over and all his men and all the little ones who were with him." 
2Samuel15:23 All the country wept with a loud voice as all the people passed over. The king crossed the brook Kidron, and all the people went on toward the wilderness." 
2Samuel15:24 Abiathar [the priest] and behold, Zadok came also, and all the Levites with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God until all the people had gone from the city." 
2Samuel15:25 Then the king told Zadok, Take back the ark of God to the city. If I find favor in the Lord's eyes, He will bring me back and let me see both it and His house." 
2Samuel15:26 But if He says, I have no delight in you, then here I am; let Him do to me what seems good to Him." 
2Samuel15:27 The king also said to Zadok the priest, Are you not a seer? [You and Abiathar] return to the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz your son and Jonathan son of Abiathar." 
2Samuel15:28 See, I will wait at the fords [at the Jordan] of the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me." 
2Samuel15:29 Zadok, therefore, and Abiathar carried the ark of God back to Jerusalem and they stayed there." 
2Samuel15:30 And David went up over the Mount of Olives and wept as he went, barefoot and his head covered. And all the people who were with him covered their heads, weeping as they went." 
2Samuel15:31 David was told, Ahithophel [your counselor] is among the conspirators with Absalom. David said, O Lord, I pray You, turn Ahithophel's counsel into foolishness." 
2Samuel15:32 When David came to the summit [of Olivet], where he worshiped God, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat rent and earth upon his head." 
2Samuel15:33 David said to him, If you go with me, you will be a burden to me." 
2Samuel15:34 But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your father's servant in the past, so will I be your servant now, then you may defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel." 
2Samuel15:35 Will not Zadok and Abiathar the priests be with you? So whatever you hear from the king's house, just tell it to [them]." 
2Samuel15:36 Behold, their two sons are there with them, Ahimaaz, Zadok's son and Jonathan, Abiathar's son; and by them send to me everything you hear." 
2Samuel15:37 So Hushai, David's friend, returned, and Absalom also came into Jerusalem." 
2Samuel16:1 WHEN DAVID was a little past the top [of Olivet], behold, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, met him with a couple of donkeys saddled, and upon them 200 loaves of bread, 100 bunches of raisins, 100 summer fruits, and a skin of wine." 
2Samuel16:2 The king said to Ziba, What do you mean by these? Ziba said, The donkeys are for the king's household to ride on, the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine is for those to drink who become faint in the wilderness." 
2Samuel16:3 The king said, And where is your master's son [grandson Mephibosheth]? Ziba said to the king, Behold, he remains in Jerusalem, for he said, Today the house of Israel will give me back the kingdom of my father [grandfather Saul]." 
2Samuel16:4 Then the king said to Ziba, Behold, all that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours. Ziba said, I do obeisance; let me ever find favor in your sight, my lord O king." 
2Samuel16:5 When King David came to Bahurim, a man of the family of the house of Saul, Shimei son of Gera, came out and cursed continually as he came." 
2Samuel16:6 And he cast stones at David and at all the servants of King David; and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. 
2Samuel16:7 Shimei said as he cursed, Get out, get out, you man of blood, you base fellow!" 
2Samuel16:8 The Lord has avenged upon you all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead you have reigned; and the Lord has delivered the kingdom into the hands of Absalom your son. Behold, the calamity is upon you because you are a bloody man!" 
2Samuel16:9 Then said [David's nephew] Abishai son of Zeruiah to the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over and take off his head." 
2Samuel16:10 The king said, What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah? If he is cursing because the Lord said to him, Curse David, who then shall ask, Why have you done so?" 
2Samuel16:11 And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, Behold, my son, who was born to me, seeks my life. With how much more reason now may this Benjamite do it? Let him alone; and let him curse, for the Lord has bidden him to do it." 
2Samuel16:12 It may be that the Lord will look on the iniquity done me and will recompense me with good for his cursing this day. 
2Samuel16:13 So David and his men went by the road, and Shimei went along on the hillside opposite David and cursed as he went and threw stones and dust at him." 
2Samuel16:14 And the king and all the people who were with him came [to the Jordan] weary, and he refreshed himself there." 
2Samuel16:15 And Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him." 
2Samuel16:16 And when Hushai the Archite, David's friend, came to Absalom, Hushai said to [him], Long live the king! Long live the king!" 
2Samuel16:17 Absalom said to Hushai, Is this your kindness and loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?" 
2Samuel16:18 Hushai said to Absalom, No, for whom the Lord and this people and all the men of Israel choose, his will I be, and with him I will remain." 
2Samuel16:19 And again, whom should I serve? Should it not be his son? As I have served your father, so will I serve you." 
2Samuel16:20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, Give your counsel. What shall we do?" 
2Samuel16:21 And Ahithophel said to Absalom, Go in to your father's concubines whom he has left to keep the house; and all Israel will hear that you are abhorred by your father. Then the hands of all who are with you will be made strong." 
2Samuel16:22 So they spread for Absalom a tent on the top of the [king's] house, and Absalom went in to his father's harem in the sight of all Israel." 
2Samuel16:23 And the counsel of Ahithophel in those days was as if a man had consulted the word of God; so was all Ahithophel's counsel considered both by David and by Absalom. 
2Samuel17:1 MOREOVER, AHITHOPHEL said to Absalom, Let me choose 12,000 men and I will set out and pursue David this night." 
2Samuel17:2 I will come upon him while he is exhausted and weak, and cause him to panic; all the people with him will flee. Then I will strike down the king alone." 
2Samuel17:3 I will bring back all the people to you. [The removal of] the man whom you seek is the assurance that all will return; and all the people will be at peace. 
2Samuel17:4 And what he said pleased Absalom well and all the elders of Israel. 
2Samuel17:5 Absalom said, Now call Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear what he says." 
2Samuel17:6 When Hushai came, Absalom said to him, Ahithophel has counseled thus. Shall we do what he says? If not, speak up." 
2Samuel17:7 And Hushai said to Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel has given is not good at this time." 
2Samuel17:8 For, said Hushai, you know your father and his men, that they are mighty men, and they are embittered and enraged like a bear robbed of her whelps in the field. And your father is a man of war, and will not lodge with the people." 
2Samuel17:9 Behold, he is hidden even now in some pit or other place; and when some of them are overthrown at the first, whoever hears it will say, There is a slaughter among the followers of Absalom." 
2Samuel17:10 And even he who is brave, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, will utterly melt, for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man and that those who are with him are brave men." 
2Samuel17:11 Therefore I counsel that all [the men of] Israel be gathered to you, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is by the sea for multitude, and that you go to battle in your own person." 
2Samuel17:12 So shall we come upon [David] some place where he shall be found, and we will light upon him as the dew settles [unseen and unheard] on the ground; and of him and of all the men with him there shall not be left so much as one." 
2Samuel17:13 If he withdraws into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will drag it into the ravine until not one pebble is left there." 
2Samuel17:14 Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than that of Ahithophel. For the Lord had ordained to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom." 
2Samuel17:15 Then said Hushai to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, Thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel, and thus and thus have I counseled." 
2Samuel17:16 Now send quickly and tell David, Lodge not this night at the fords [at the Jordan] of the wilderness, but by all means pass over, lest the king be swallowed up and all the people with him." 
2Samuel17:17 Now [the youths] Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed at En-rogel, for they must not be seen coming into the city. But a maidservant went and told them, and they went and told King David." 
2Samuel17:18 But a lad saw them and told Absalom; but they left quickly and came to the house of a man in Bahurim, who had a well in his court, and they went down into it." 
2Samuel17:19 And the woman spread a covering over the well's mouth and spread ground corn on it; and the thing was not discovered. 
2Samuel17:20 For when Absalom's servants came to the woman at the house, they said, Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said to them, They went over the brook of water. When they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel17:21 After they had departed, the boys came up out of the well and went and told King David, and said, Arise and pass quickly over the river Jordan; for thus and so has Ahithophel counseled against you." 
2Samuel17:22 David arose and all the people with him and passed over the Jordan. By daybreak, not one was left who had not crossed." 
2Samuel17:23 But when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey, went home to his city, put his household in order, and hanged himself and died, and was buried in the tomb of his father." 
2Samuel17:24 Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him." 
2Samuel17:25 Absalom made Amasa captain of the army instead of Joab. Amasa was the son of an [Ishmaelite] named Ithra, who married Abigail daughter of Nahash, [half sister of David and] sister of Zeruiah, Joab's mother." 
2Samuel17:26 So Israel and Absalom encamped in the land of Gilead. 
2Samuel17:27 When David came to Mahanaim, Shobi son of Nahash of Rabbah of the Ammonites, and Machir son of Ammiel of Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim" 
2Samuel17:28 Brought beds, basins, earthen vessels, wheat, barley, meal, parched grain, beans, lentils, parched [pulse,seeds of peas and beans]," 
2Samuel17:29 Honey, curds, sheep, and cheese of cows for David and the people with him to eat; for they said, The people are hungry, weary, and thirsty in the wilderness." 
2Samuel18:1 DAVID NUMBERED the men who were with him and set over them commanders of thousands and of hundreds. 
2Samuel18:2 David sent forth the army, a third under command of Joab, a third under Abishai son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, and a third under Ittai the Gittite. [He] told the men, I myself will go out with you also." 
2Samuel18:3 But the men said, You shall not go out. For if we flee, they will not care about us; if half of us die, they will not care about us. But you are worth 10,000 such as we are. So now it is better that you be able to help us from the city." 
2Samuel18:4 The king said to them, Whatever seems best to you I will do. So he stood beside the gate, and all the army came out by hundreds and by thousands." 
2Samuel18:5 The king commanded Joab, Abishai, and Ittai, saying, Deal gently for my sake with the young man Absalom. And all the people heard when the king gave orders to all the commanders about Absalom." 
2Samuel18:6 So the army went out into the field against Israel, and the battle was fought in the forest of Ephraim." 
2Samuel18:7 [Absalom's] men of Israel were defeated by the servants of David, and there was a great slaughter that day of 20,000 men." 
2Samuel18:8 For the battle spread over the face of all the country, and the forest devoured more men that day than did the sword." 
2Samuel18:9 Then Absalom [unavoidably] met the servants of David. Absalom rode on a mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and Absalom's head caught fast [in a fork] of the oak; and the mule under him ran away, leaving him hanging between the heavens and the earth." 
2Samuel18:10 A certain man saw it and told Joab, Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak." 
2Samuel18:11 Joab said to the man, You saw him! Why did you not strike him down to the ground? I would have given you ten shekels of silver and a girdle." 
2Samuel18:12 The man told Joab, Though I should receive 1,000 pieces of silver, yet I would not put forth my hand against the king's son. For in our hearing the king charged you, Abishai, and Ittai, Have a care, whoever you be, for the young man Absalom." 
2Samuel18:13 Otherwise, if I had dealt falsely against his life,for nothing is hidden from the king,you yourself would have taken sides against me." 
2Samuel18:14 Joab said, I will not tarry thus with you. He took three darts in his hand and thrust them into the body of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak." 
2Samuel18:15 And ten young men, Joab's armor-bearers, surrounded and struck Absalom and killed him." 
2Samuel18:16 Then Joab blew the trumpet, and the troops returned from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained and spared them." 
2Samuel18:17 They took Absalom and cast him into a great pit in the forest and raised a very great heap of stones upon him. And all Israel fled, everyone to his own home." 
2Samuel18:18 Now Absalom in his lifetime had reared up for himself a pillar which is in the King's Valley, for he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance. He called the pillar after his own name, and to this day it is called Absalom's Monument." 
2Samuel18:19 Then said Ahimaaz son of Zadok, Let me now run and bear the king tidings of how the Lord has avenged David of his enemies." 
2Samuel18:20 Joab told him, You shall not carry news today, but another time. Today you shall bear no news, for the king's son is dead." 
2Samuel18:21 Then said Joab to the Cushite [an Ethiopian], Go tell the king what you have seen. And the Cushite bowed to Joab and ran." 
2Samuel18:22 Then said Ahimaaz son of Zadok again to Joab, But anyhow, let me, I pray you, also run after the Cushite. Joab said, Why should you run, my son, seeing you will have no reward, for you have not sufficient tidings?" 
2Samuel18:23 But he said, Let me run anyhow. So Joab said to him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain and outran the Cushite." 
2Samuel18:24 Now David was sitting between the two gates; and the watchman went up to the roof over the gate by the wall, and when he looked, he saw a man running alone." 
2Samuel18:25 The watchman called out and told the king. The king said, If he is alone, he has news to tell. And he came on and drew near." 
2Samuel18:26 Then the watchman saw another man running, and the watchman called to the gatekeeper, Behold, another man running alone. The king said, He also brings news." 
2Samuel18:27 The watchman said, I think the man in front runs like Ahimaaz son of Zadok. The king said, He is a good man and comes with good tidings." 
2Samuel18:28 And Ahimaaz called and said to the king, All is well! And he fell down to the ground on his face before the king and said, Blessed be the Lord your God, Who has shut up the men who lifted up their hands against my lord the king." 
2Samuel18:29 The king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? Ahimaaz answered, When Joab sent the king's servant and me, your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I do not know what it was." 
2Samuel18:30 The king told him, Turn aside; stand here. And he turned aside and stood still." 
2Samuel18:31 And behold, the Cushite (Ethiopian) came, and he said, News, my lord the king! For the Lord has delivered you this day from all who rose up against you." 
2Samuel18:32 The king said to the Cushite, Is the young man Absalom safe? The Cushite replied, May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise against you to do evil be like that young man is." 
2Samuel18:33 And the king was deeply moved and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And as he went, he said, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would to God I had died for you, O Absalom, my son, my son!" 
2Samuel19:1 IT WAS told Joab, Behold, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom." 
2Samuel19:2 So the victory that day was turned into mourning for all the people, for they heard it said, The king grieves for his son." 
2Samuel19:3 The people slipped into the city stealthily that day as humiliated people steal away when they flee in battle. 
2Samuel19:4 But the king covered his face and cried with a loud voice, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!" 
2Samuel19:5 And Joab came into the house to the king and said, You have today covered the faces of all your servants with shame, who this day have saved your life and the lives of your sons and your daughters and the lives of your wives and concubines." 
2Samuel19:6 For you love those who hate you and hate those who love you. You have declared today that princes and servants are nothing to you; for today I see that if Absalom had lived and all the rest of us had died, you would be well pleased." 
2Samuel19:7 So now arise, go out and speak kindly and encouragingly to your servants; for I swear by the Lord that if you do not go, not a man will remain with you this night. And this will be worse for you than all the evil that has befallen you from your youth until now." 
2Samuel19:8 Then the king arose and sat in the gate. And all [his followers] were told, The king is sitting in the gate, and they all came before the king. Now Israel [Absalom's troops] had fled, every man to his home." 
2Samuel19:9 And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king delivered us from the hands of our enemies, and he saved us from the hands of the Philistines. And now he has fled out of the land from Absalom." 
2Samuel19:10 And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. So now, why do you say nothing about bringing back the king?" 
2Samuel19:11 And King David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, Say to the elders of Judah, Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house, when the word of all Israel has come to the king, to bring him to his house?" 
2Samuel19:12 You are my kinsmen; you are my bone and my flesh. Why then are you the last to bring back the king? 
2Samuel19:13 And say to Amasa, Are you not of my bone and of my flesh? May God do so to me, and more also, if you are not commander of my army hereafter in place of Joab." 
2Samuel19:14 He inclined the hearts of all the men of Judah as one man, so they sent word to [him], Return, you and all your servants." 
2Samuel19:15 So [David] returned and came to the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal to meet the king, to conduct him over the Jordan." 
2Samuel19:16 And Shimei son of Gera, a Benjamite of Bahurim, hastily came down with the men of Judah to meet King David," 
2Samuel19:17 And 1,000 men of Benjamin with him. And Ziba, the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and twenty servants with him, rushed to the Jordan and pressed quickly into the king's presence." 
2Samuel19:18 And there went over a ferryboat to bring over the king's household and to do what he thought good. And Shimei son of Gera fell down before the king as David came to the Jordan," 
2Samuel19:19 And said to the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity to me and hold me guilty, nor remember what your servant did the day my lord went out of Jerusalem [when Shimei grossly insulted David]; may the king not take it to heart." 
2Samuel19:20 For your servant knows that I have sinned; therefore, behold, I am today the first of all the house of Joseph to come down to meet my lord the king." 
2Samuel19:21 But Abishai son of Zeruiah said, Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the Lord's anointed?" 
2Samuel19:22 David said, What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should be an adversary to me today? Shall anyone be put to death today in Israel? For do not I know that I am this day king over Israel?" 
2Samuel19:23 Therefore the king said to Shimei, You shall not die [at my hand]. And the king gave him his oath. [I Kings 2:44-46.]" 
2Samuel19:24 Mephibosheth the son [grandson] of Saul came down to meet the king, and had not dressed his feet, trimmed his beard, or washed his clothes from the day the king left until he returned in peace and safety." 
2Samuel19:25 And when he came to Jerusalem to meet the king, David said to him, Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?" 
2Samuel19:26 He said, My lord O king, my servant [Ziba] deceived me; for I said, Saddle me the donkey that I may ride on it and go to the king, for your servant is lame [but he took the donkey and left without me]." 
2Samuel19:27 He has slandered your servant to my lord the king. But the king is as an angel of God; so do what is good in your eyes. 
2Samuel19:28 For all of my father's house were but doomed to death before my lord the king; yet you set your servant among those who ate at your own table. What right therefore have I to cry any more to the king? 
2Samuel19:29 The king said to him, Why speak any more of your affairs? I say, You and Ziba divide the land." 
2Samuel19:30 Mephibosheth said to the king, Oh, let him take it all, since my lord the king has returned home in safety and peace." 
2Samuel19:31 Now Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and went on to the Jordan with the king to conduct him over the Jordan. 
2Samuel19:32 Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even eighty years old; and he had provided the king with food while he remained at Mahanaim, for he was a very great man." 
2Samuel19:33 And the king said to Barzillai, Come over with me, and I will provide for you with me in Jerusalem." 
2Samuel19:34 And Barzillai said to the king, How much longer have I to live, that it would be worthwhile for me to go up with the king to Jerusalem?" 
2Samuel19:35 I am this day eighty years old. Could I now [be useful as a counselor to] discern between good and evil? Can your servant appreciate what I eat or drink? Can I any longer enjoy the voices of singing men and women? Why then should your servant be still a burden to my lord the king? 
2Samuel19:36 Your servant will only go over the Jordan with the king. Why should the king repay me with such a reward? 
2Samuel19:37 Let your servant turn back again, that I may die in my own city and be buried by the grave of my father and mother. But here is your servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king. And do to him what shall seem good to you." 
2Samuel19:38 The king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him what seems good to you; and whatever you ask of me I will do for you." 
2Samuel19:39 So all the people went over the Jordan. When the king had crossed over, he kissed Barzillai and blessed him, and [the great man] returned to his own place." 
2Samuel19:40 Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went with him; and all the people of Judah and also half the people of Israel escorted the king." 
2Samuel19:41 And all the men of Israel came to the king and said to him, Why have our kinsmen, the men of Judah, stolen you away and have brought the king and his household over the Jordan, and all David's men with him?" 
2Samuel19:42 But all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to us. Why then be angry about it? Have we eaten at all at the king's expense? Or has he given us any gift?" 
2Samuel19:43 Then the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, We have ten [tribes'] shares in the king; and we have more right to David than you have. Why then did you despise and ignore us? Were we not the first to speak of our bringing back our king? But the words of the men of Judah were more violent than the charges of the men of Israel." 
2Samuel20:1 THERE HAPPENED to be there a base and contemptible fellow named Sheba son of Bichri, a Benjamite. He blew a trumpet and said, We have no portion in David and no inheritance in the son of Jesse! Every man to his tents, O Israel!" 
2Samuel20:2 So all the men of Israel withdrew from David and followed Sheba son of Bichri; but the men of Judah stayed faithfully with their king, from the Jordan to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel20:3 So David came to his house at Jerusalem. And the king took the ten women, his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them away under guard and provided for them, but did not go in to them. So they were shut up to the day of their death, living in widowhood." 
2Samuel20:4 Then said the king to Amasa, Assemble the men of Judah to me within three days, and you be present here." 
2Samuel20:5 So Amasa went to assemble the men of Judah, but he tarried longer than the set time which had been appointed him." 
2Samuel20:6 And David said to Abishai, Now will Sheba son of Bichri do us more harm than Absalom did. Take your lord's servants and pursue him, lest he get for himself fenced cities and snatch away our very eyes." 
2Samuel20:7 And there went after him Joab's men and [David's bodyguards] the Cherethites and Pelethites and all the mighty men; they went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba son of Bichri. 
2Samuel20:8 When they were at the great stone in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Joab was wearing a soldier's garment, and over it was a sheathed sword fastened around his hips; and as he went forward, it fell out." 
2Samuel20:9 Joab said to Amasa, Are you well, my brother? And Joab took Amasa by the beard with the right hand [as if] to kiss him." 
2Samuel20:10 But Amasa did not notice the sword in Joab's hand. So [Joab] struck him [who was to have been his successor] with it in the body, shedding his bowels to the ground without another blow; and [soon] he died. So Joab and Abishai his brother pursued Sheba son of Bichri." 
2Samuel20:11 And one of Joab's men stood by him and said, Whoever favors Joab and is for David, follow Joab!" 
2Samuel20:12 And Amasa wallowed in his blood in the highway. And when the man saw that all the people who came by stood still, he removed Amasa out of the highway into the field and spread a cloth over him." 
2Samuel20:13 When Amasa was removed from the highway, all the people went on after Joab to pursue Sheba son of Bichri." 
2Samuel20:14 Joab went through all the tribes of Israel to Abel of Beth-maacah, and all the Berites assembled and also went after [Sheba] ardently." 
2Samuel20:15 And they came and besieged Sheba in Abel of Beth-maacah, and they cast up a siege mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart; and all the men with Joab battered and undermined the wall to make it fall." 
2Samuel20:16 Then a wise woman of the city cried, Hear, hear! Say to Joab, Come here so I can speak to you." 
2Samuel20:17 And when he came near her, the woman said, Are you Joab? He answered, I am. Then she said to him, Hear the words of your handmaid. He answered, I am listening." 
2Samuel20:18 Then she said, People used to say, Let them but ask counsel at Abel, and so they settled the matter." 
2Samuel20:19 I am one of the peaceable and faithful in Israel. You seek to destroy a city which is a mother in Israel. Why will you swallow up the inheritance of the Lord? 
2Samuel20:20 Joab answered, Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow up or destroy!" 
2Samuel20:21 That is not true. But a man of the hill country of Ephraim, Sheba son of Bichri, has lifted up his hand against King David. Deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And the woman said, Behold, his head shall be thrown to you over the wall." 
2Samuel20:22 Then the woman in her wisdom went to all the people. And they cut off the head of Sheba son of Bichri and cast it down to Joab. So he blew the trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his own home. And Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king. [Eccl. 9:13-16.]" 
2Samuel20:23 Joab was over the host of Israel; Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over [the king's bodyguards] the Cherethites and Pelethites; 
2Samuel20:24 Adoram was over the tribute; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder; 
2Samuel20:25 Sheva was scribe; and Zadok and Abiathar were the priests; 
2Samuel20:26 Also Ira the Jairite was chief minister to David. 
2Samuel21:1 THERE WAS a three-year famine in the days of David, year after year; and David inquired of the Lord. The Lord replied, It is on account of Saul and his bloody house, for he put to death the Gibeonites." 
2Samuel21:2 So the king called the Gibeonites,now the Gibeonites were not Israelites but of the remnant of the Amorites. The Israelites had sworn to spare them, but Saul in his zeal for the people of Israel and Judah had sought to slay the Gibeonites," 
2Samuel21:3 So David said to the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? How can I make atonement that you may bless the Lord's inheritance?" 
2Samuel21:4 The Gibeonites said to him, We will accept no silver or gold of Saul or of his house; neither for us shall you kill any man in Israel. David said, I will do for you what you say." 
2Samuel21:5 They said to the king, The man who consumed us and planned to prevent us from remaining in any territory of Israel," 
2Samuel21:6 Let seven men of his sons be delivered to us and we will hang them up before the Lord at Gibeah of Saul, [on the mountain] of the Lord. And the king said, I will give them." 
2Samuel21:7 But the king spared Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the Lord's oath that was between David and Jonathan son of Saul." 
2Samuel21:8 But the king took the two sons of Rizpah daughter of Aiah, whom she bore to Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth, and the five sons of [Merab] daughter of Saul, whom she bore to Adriel son of Barzillai the Meholathite." 
2Samuel21:9 He delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hung them up on the hill before the Lord, and all seven perished together. They were put to death in the first days of barley harvest." 
2Samuel21:10 Rizpah daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it for herself on the rock, from the beginning of harvest until rain fell on them, and she did not allow either the birds of the air to come upon them by day or the beasts of the field by night." 
2Samuel21:11 It was told David what Rizpah daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done." 
2Samuel21:12 And David went and took the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son from the men of Jabesh-gilead, who had stolen them from the street of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hung them up when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilboa." 
2Samuel21:13 He brought from there the bones of Saul and of Jonathan his son, and they gathered the bones of those who were hung up." 
2Samuel21:14 And the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son they buried in the country of Benjamin in Zelah in the tomb of Kish, [Saul's] father, and they did all that the king commanded. And after that, God heard and answered when His people prayed for the land." 
2Samuel21:15 The Philistines had war again with Israel. And David went down and his servants with him and fought against the Philistines, and David became faint." 
2Samuel21:16 Ishbi-benob, who was of the sons of the giants, the weight of whose spear was 300 shekels of bronze, was girded with a new sword, and thought to kill David." 
2Samuel21:17 But Abishai son of Zeruiah came to David's aid, and smote and killed the Philistine. Then David's men charged him, You shall no more go out with us to battle, lest you quench the lamp of Israel." 
2Samuel21:18 After this, there was again war with the Philistines at Gob (Gezer). Then Sibbecai the Hushathite slew Saph (Sippai), who was a descendant of the giant." 
2Samuel21:19 There was again war at Gob with the Philistines, and Elhanan son of Jaare-oregim, a Bethlehemite, slew Goliath the Gittite, whose spear shaft was like a weaver's beam." 
2Samuel21:20 And there was again war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature who had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number; he also was a descendant of the giants." 
2Samuel21:21 And when he defied Israel, Jonathan son of Shimei, brother of David, slew him." 
2Samuel21:22 These four were descended from the giant in Gath, and they fell by the hands of David and his servants." 
2Samuel22:1 DAVID SPOKE to the Lord the words of this song on the day when the Lord delivered him from the hands of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. 
2Samuel22:2 He said: The Lord is my Rock [of escape from Saul] and my Fortress [in the wilderness] and my Deliverer; [I Sam. 23:14, 25, 28.]" 
2Samuel22:3 My God, my Rock, in Him will I take refuge; my Shield and the Horn of my salvation; my Stronghold and my Refuge, my Savior,You save me from violence. [Gen. 15:1.]" 
2Samuel22:4 I call on the Lord, Who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies." 
2Samuel22:5 For the waves of death enveloped me; the torrents of destruction made me afraid. 
2Samuel22:6 The cords of Sheol were entangling me; I encountered the snares of death. 
2Samuel22:7 In my distress I called upon the Lord; I cried to my God, and He heard my voice from His temple; my cry came into His ears." 
2Samuel22:8 Then the earth reeled and quaked, the foundations of the heavens trembled and shook because He was angry." 
2Samuel22:9 Smoke went up from His nostrils, and devouring fire from His mouth; coals were kindled by it." 
2Samuel22:10 He bowed the heavens and came down; thick darkness was under His feet. 
2Samuel22:11 He rode on a cherub and flew; He was seen upon the wings of the wind. 
2Samuel22:12 He made darkness His canopy around Him, gathering of waters, thick clouds of the skies." 
2Samuel22:13 Out of the brightness before Him coals of fire flamed forth. 
2Samuel22:14 The Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered His voice." 
2Samuel22:15 He sent out arrows and scattered them; lightning confused and troubled them. 
2Samuel22:16 The channels of the sea were visible, the foundations of the world were uncovered at the rebuke of the Lord, at the blast of the breath of His nostrils." 
2Samuel22:17 He sent from above, He took me; He drew me out of great waters." 
2Samuel22:18 He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me." 
2Samuel22:19 They came upon me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my stay." 
2Samuel22:20 He brought me forth into a large place; He delivered me because He delighted in me. 
2Samuel22:21 The Lord rewarded me according to my uprightness with Him; He compensated and benefited me according to the cleanness of my hands. 
2Samuel22:22 For I have kept the ways of the Lord, and have not wickedly departed from my God." 
2Samuel22:23 For all His ordinances were before me; and from His statutes I did not turn aside. 
2Samuel22:24 I was also blameless before Him and kept myself from guilt and iniquity. 
2Samuel22:25 Therefore the Lord has recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in His [holy] sight." 
2Samuel22:26 Toward the loving and loyal You will show Yourself loving and loyal, and with the upright and blameless You will show Yourself upright and blameless." 
2Samuel22:27 To the pure You will show Yourself pure, and to the willful You will show Yourself willful." 
2Samuel22:28 And the afflicted people You will deliver, but Your eyes are upon the haughty, whom You will bring down." 
2Samuel22:29 For You, O Lord, are my Lamp; the Lord lightens my darkness." 
2Samuel22:30 For by You I run through a troop; by my God I leap over a wall. 
2Samuel22:31 As for God, His way is perfect; the word of the Lord is tried. He is a Shield to all those who trust and take refuge in Him." 
2Samuel22:32 For who is God but the Lord? And who is a Rock except our God? 
2Samuel22:33 God is my strong Fortress; He guides the blameless in His way and sets him free. 
2Samuel22:34 He makes my feet like the hinds' [firm and able]; He sets me secure and confident upon the heights. 
2Samuel22:35 He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze." 
2Samuel22:36 You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; and Your condescension and gentleness have made me great. 
2Samuel22:37 You have enlarged my steps under me, so that my feet have not slipped." 
2Samuel22:38 I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them; and I did not turn back until they were consumed. 
2Samuel22:39 I consumed them and thrust them through, so that they did not arise; they fell at my feet." 
2Samuel22:40 For You girded me with strength for the battle; those who rose up against me You subdued under me. 
2Samuel22:41 You have made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me." 
2Samuel22:42 They looked, but there was none to save,even to the Lord, but He did not answer them." 
2Samuel22:43 Then I beat them small as the dust of the earth; I crushed them as the mire of the street and scattered them abroad. 
2Samuel22:44 You also have delivered me from strife with my people; You kept me as the head of the nations. People whom I had not known served me. 
2Samuel22:45 Foreigners yielded feigned obedience to me; as soon as they heard of me, they became obedient to me." 
2Samuel22:46 Foreigners faded away; they came limping and trembling from their strongholds. 
2Samuel22:47 The Lord lives; blessed be my Rock, and exalted be God, the Rock of my salvation." 
2Samuel22:48 It is God Who executes vengeance for me and Who brought down [and disciplined] the peoples under me," 
2Samuel22:49 Who brought me out from my enemies. You also lifted me up above those who rose up against me; You delivered me from the violent man. 
2Samuel22:50 For this I will give thanks and extol You, O Lord, among the nations; I will sing praises to Your name." 
2Samuel22:51 He is a Tower of salvation and great deliverance to His king, and shows loving-kindness to His anointed, to David and his offspring forever." 
2Samuel23:1 NOW THESE are the last words of David: David son of Jesse says, and the man who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, says," 
2Samuel23:2 The Spirit of the Lord spoke in and by me, and His word was upon my tongue." 
2Samuel23:3 The God of Israel spoke, the Rock of Israel said to me, When one rules over men righteously, ruling in the fear of God," 
2Samuel23:4 He dawns on them like the morning light when the sun rises on a cloudless morning, when the tender grass springs out of the earth through clear shining after rain." 
2Samuel23:5 Truly does not my house stand so with God? For He has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure. For will He not cause to prosper all my help and my desire?" 
2Samuel23:6 But wicked, godless, and worthless lives are all like thorns to be thrust away, because they cannot be taken with the hand." 
2Samuel23:7 But the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire on the spot." 
2Samuel23:8 These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth, a Tahchemonite, chief of the Three [heroes], known also as Adino the Eznite; he wielded his spear and went against 800 men, who were slain at one time. [I Chron. 11:11.]" 
2Samuel23:9 Next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar son of Dodo, son of Ahohi. He was with David when they defied the Philistines assembled there for battle, and the men of Israel had departed." 
2Samuel23:10 [Eleazar] arose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary and clung to the sword. The Lord wrought a great deliverance and victory that day; the men returned after him only to take the spoil. 
2Samuel23:11 Next to [Eleazar] was Shammah son of Agee the Hararite. The Philistines were gathered at Lehi on a piece of ground full of lentils; and the [Israelites] fled from the Philistines. 
2Samuel23:12 But he stood in the midst of the ground and defended it and slew the Philistines; and the Lord wrought a great victory. 
2Samuel23:13 And three of the thirty chief men went down at harvest time to David in the cave of Adullam, and a troop of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim." 
2Samuel23:14 And David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem." 
2Samuel23:15 And David said longingly, Oh, that someone would give me a drink of water from the well of Bethlehem by the gate!" 
2Samuel23:16 And the three mighty men broke through the army of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem by the gate and brought it to David. But he would not drink it, but poured it out to the Lord." 
2Samuel23:17 And he said, Be it far from me, O Lord, to drink this. Is it not [the same as] the blood of the men who went at the risk of their lives? So he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men." 
2Samuel23:18 Now Abishai the brother of Joab son of Zeruiah was chief of the Three. He wielded his spear against 300 men and slew them, and won a name beside the Three." 
2Samuel23:19 Was he not most renowned of the Three? So he was their captain; however, he did not attain to the Three." 
2Samuel23:20 And Benaiah son of Jehoiada, a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done many notable acts, slew two lionlike men of Moab. He went down also and slew a lion in a pit on a snowy day." 
2Samuel23:21 And he slew an Egyptian, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but Benaiah went down to him with a staff, snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew the man with his own spear." 
2Samuel23:22 These things Benaiah son of Jehoiada did, and won a name beside the three mighty men." 
2Samuel23:23 He was more renowned than the Thirty, but he attained not to the [first] Three. David set him over his guard or council." 
2Samuel23:24 Asahel brother of Joab was one of the Thirty; then Elhanan son of Dodo of Bethlehem," 
2Samuel23:25 Shammah of Harod, Elika of Harod," 
2Samuel23:26 Helez the Paltite, Ira son of Ikkesh of Tekoa," 
2Samuel23:27 Abiezer of Anathoth, Mebunnai the Hushathite," 
2Samuel23:28 Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai of Netophah," 
2Samuel23:29 Heleb son of Baanah of Netophah, Ittai son of Ribai of Gibeah of the Benjamites." 
2Samuel23:30 Benaiah of Pirathon, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash," 
2Samuel23:31 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite," 
2Samuel23:32 Eliahba of Shaalbon, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan," 
2Samuel23:33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam son of Sharar the Hararite," 
2Samuel23:34 Eliphelet son of Ahasbai, son of Maacah, Eliam son of Ahithophel of Giloh," 
2Samuel23:35 Hezro (Hezrai) of Carmel, Paarai the Arbite," 
2Samuel23:36 Igal son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite," 
2Samuel23:37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, armor-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah," 
2Samuel23:38 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite," 
2Samuel23:39 Uriah the Hittite,thirty-seven in all. 
2Samuel24:1 AGAIN THE anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and He moved David against them, saying, Go, number Israel and Judah." 
2Samuel24:2 For the king said to Joab the captain of the host who was with him, Go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, and count the people, that I may know their number." 
2Samuel24:3 And Joab said to the king, May the Lord your God add a hundred times as many people as there are, and let the eyes of my lord the king see it; but why does my lord the king delight in this thing?" 
2Samuel24:4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab and the commanders of the army. So they went from the king's presence to number the Israelites. 
2Samuel24:5 They passed over the Jordan and encamped in Aroer, on the south side of the city lying in the midst of the ravine [of the Arnon] toward Gad, and on to Jazer." 
2Samuel24:6 Then they came to Gilead, and to the land of Tahtim-hodshi, and they came to Dan-jaan [Dan in the forest] and around to Sidon," 
2Samuel24:7 And came to the stronghold of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and Canaanites; and they went out to the South (the Negeb) of Judah at Beersheba. 
2Samuel24:8 So when they had gone through all the land [taking the census], they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days." 
2Samuel24:9 And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to the king. There were in Israel 800,000 valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were 500,000." 
2Samuel24:10 But David's heart smote him after he had numbered the people. David said to the Lord, I have sinned greatly in what I have done. I beseech You, O Lord, take away the iniquity of Your servant, for I have done very foolishly." 
2Samuel24:11 When David arose in the morning, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Gad, David's seer, saying," 
2Samuel24:12 Go and say to David, Thus says the Lord, I hold over you three choices; select one of them, so I may bring it upon you." 
2Samuel24:13 So Gad came to David and told him and said, Shall seven years of famine come to your land? Or will you flee three months before your pursuing enemies? Or do you prefer three days of pestilence in your land? Consider and see what answer I shall return to Him Who sent me." 
2Samuel24:14 And David said to Gad, I am in great distress. Let us fall into the hands of the Lord, for His mercies are many and great; but let me not fall into the hands of man." 
2Samuel24:15 So the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed; and there died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba 70,000 men." 
2Samuel24:16 And when the angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to destroy it, the Lord relented of the evil and reversed His judgment and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay your hand. And the angel of the Lord was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 
2Samuel24:17 When David saw the angel who was smiting the people, he spoke to the Lord and said, Behold, I have sinned and I have done wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? Let Your hand, I pray You, be [only] against me and against my father's house." 
2Samuel24:18 Then Gad came to David and said, Go up, rear an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite." 
2Samuel24:19 So David went up according to Gad's word, as the Lord commanded." 
2Samuel24:20 Araunah looked and saw the king and his servants coming toward him; and [he] went out and bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. 
2Samuel24:21 Araunah said, Why has my lord the king come to his servant? And David said, To buy the threshing floor from you, to build there an altar to the Lord, that the plague may be stayed from the people." 
2Samuel24:22 And Araunah said to David, Let my lord the king take and offer up what seems good to him. Behold, here are oxen for burnt sacrifice, and threshing instruments and the yokes of the oxen for wood." 
2Samuel24:23 All this, O king, Araunah gives to the king. And Araunah said to the king, The Lord your God accept you." 
2Samuel24:24 But King David said to Araunah, No, but I will buy it of you for a price. I will not offer burnt offerings to the Lord my God of that which costs me nothing. So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver." 
2Samuel24:25 David built there an altar to the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So the Lord heeded the prayers for the land, and Israel's plague was stayed." 
1Kings1:1 AND KING David was old and advanced in years; they covered him with [bed]clothes, but he could not get warm." 
1Kings1:2 So his servants [the physicians] said to him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin, and let her wait on and be useful to the king; let her lie in your bosom, that my lord the king may get warm." 
1Kings1:3 So they sought a fair maiden through all the territory of Israel and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king." 
1Kings1:4 The maiden was beautiful; and she waited on and nursed him. But the king had no intercourse with her. 
1Kings1:5 Then Adonijah son of [David's wife] Haggith exalted himself, saying, I [the eldest living son] will be king. And he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen, with fifty men to run before him." 
1Kings1:6 David his father had never in his life displeased him by asking, Why have you done so? He was also a very attractive man and was born after Absalom." 
1Kings1:7 He conferred with Joab son of Zeruiah [David's half sister] and with Abiathar the priest, and they followed Adonijah and helped him." 
1Kings1:8 But Zadok the priest, Benaiah son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and David's mighty men did not side with Adonijah." 
1Kings1:9 Adonijah sacrificed sheep, oxen, and fatlings by the Stone of Zoheleth, which is beside [the well] En-rogel; and he invited all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the royal officials of Judah." 
1Kings1:10 But Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty men, and Solomon his brother he did not invite." 
1Kings1:11 Then Nathan said to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, Have you not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggith, reigns and David our lord does not know it?" 
1Kings1:12 Come now, let me advise you how to save your own life and your son Solomon's." 
1Kings1:13 Go to King David and say, Did you not, my lord, O king, swear to your handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? Why then does Adonijah reign?" 
1Kings1:14 Behold, while you are still talking there with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm your words." 
1Kings1:15 So Bathsheba went in to the king in his chamber. Now the king was very old and feeble, and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to [him]." 
1Kings1:16 Bathsheba bowed and did obeisance to the king. The king said, What do you wish?" 
1Kings1:17 And she said to him, My lord, you swore by the Lord your God to your handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me and sit upon my throne." 
1Kings1:18 And now, behold, Adonijah is reigning, and, my lord the king, you do not know it." 
1Kings1:19 He has sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the king's sons and Abiathar the priest and Joab the commander of the army. But he did not invite Solomon your servant." 
1Kings1:20 Now, my lord O king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, to tell who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after you." 
1Kings1:21 Otherwise, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, I and my son Solomon shall be counted as offenders." 
1Kings1:22 While she was still talking with the king, Nathan the prophet also came in." 
1Kings1:23 The king was told, Here is Nathan the prophet. And when he came before the king, he bowed himself before him with his face to the ground." 
1Kings1:24 And Nathan said, My lord the king, have you said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne?" 
1Kings1:25 He has gone this day and sacrificed oxen, fatlings, and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the king's sons, the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest; and they eat and drink before him and say, Long live King Adonijah!" 
1Kings1:26 But me your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and your servant Solomon he has not invited." 
1Kings1:27 Is this done by my lord the king and you have not shown your servants who shall succeed my lord the king? 
1Kings1:28 Then King David answered, Call Bathsheba. And she came into the king's presence and stood before him." 
1Kings1:29 And the king took an oath and said, As the Lord lives, Who has redeemed my soul out of all distress," 
1Kings1:30 Even as I swore to you by the Lord, the God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead,even so will I certainly do this day." 
1Kings1:31 Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground and did obeisance to the king and said, Let my lord King David live forever!" 
1Kings1:32 King David said, Call Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king." 
1Kings1:33 The king told them, Take the servants of your lord and cause Solomon my son to ride on my own mule and bring him down to Gihon [in the Kidron Valley]." 
1Kings1:34 And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel. Then blow the trumpet and say, Long live King Solomon!" 
1Kings1:35 Then you shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne, for he shall be king in my stead; I have appointed him ruler over Israel and Judah." 
1Kings1:36 And Benaiah son of Jehoiada answered the king and said, Amen! May the Lord, the God of my lord the king, say so too." 
1Kings1:37 As the Lord has been with my lord the king, even so may He be with Solomon and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David." 
1Kings1:38 So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites [the king's bodyguards] went down and caused Solomon to ride upon King David's mule and brought him to Gihon." 
1Kings1:39 Zadok the priest took a horn of oil out of the tent and anointed Solomon. They blew the trumpet and all the people said, Long live King Solomon!" 
1Kings1:40 All the people followed him; they played on pipes and rejoiced greatly, so that the earth [resounded] with the joyful sound." 
1Kings1:41 And Adonijah and all the guests with him heard it as they finished feasting. When Joab heard the trumpet sound, he said, What does this uproar in the city mean?" 
1Kings1:42 While he was still speaking, behold, Jonathan son of Abiathar the priest came. And Adonijah said, Come in, for you are a trustworthy man and bring good news." 
1Kings1:43 Jonathan replied, Adonijah, truly our lord King David has made Solomon king!" 
1Kings1:44 The king has sent him with Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule." 
1Kings1:45 Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon; they have come up from there rejoicing, so the city resounds. This is the noise you heard." 
1Kings1:46 Solomon sits on the royal throne. 
1Kings1:47 Moreover, the king's servants came to congratulate our lord King David, saying, May God make the name of Solomon better than your name and make his throne greater than your throne. And the king bowed himself upon the bed" 
1Kings1:48 And said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, Who has granted me to see one of my offspring sitting on my throne this day." 
1Kings1:49 And all the guests that were with Adonijah were afraid and rose up and went every man his way. 
1Kings1:50 And Adonijah feared because of Solomon, and arose and went [to the tabernacle tent on Mt. Zion] and caught hold of the horns of the altar [as a fugitive's refuge]." 
1Kings1:51 And it was told Solomon, Behold, Adonijah fears King Solomon, for behold, he has caught hold of the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear to me first that he will not slay his servant with the sword." 
1Kings1:52 Solomon said, If he will show himself to be a worthy man, not a hair of him shall fall to the ground; but if wickedness is found in him, he shall die." 
1Kings1:53 So King Solomon sent, and they brought Adonijah down from the altar [in front of the tabernacle]. He came and bowed himself to King Solomon, and Solomon said to him, Go to your house." 
1Kings2:1 WHEN DAVID'S time to die was near, he charged Solomon his son, saying," 
1Kings2:2 I go the way of all the earth. Be strong and show yourself a man; 
1Kings2:3 Keep the charge of the Lord your God, walk in His ways, keep His statutes, His commandments, His precepts, and His testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that you may do wisely and prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn," 
1Kings2:4 That the Lord may fulfill His promise to me, saying, If your sons take heed to their way, to walk before Me in truth with all their heart and mind and with all their soul, there shall not fail you [to have] a man on the throne of Israel." 
1Kings2:5 You know also what Joab son of Zeruiah did to me, and what he did to the two captains of the hosts of Israel, Abner son of Ner and Amasa son of Jether, whom he murdered, avenging in time of peace blood shed in war, and putting innocent blood of war on the girdle on his loins and on the sandals of his feet." 
1Kings2:6 Do therefore according to your wisdom, but let not his hoary head go down to Sheol (the place of the dead) in peace." 
1Kings2:7 But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite and let them be among those who eat at your table; for with such kindness they met me when I fled because of Absalom your brother. [II Sam. 17:27-29.] 
1Kings2:8 And you have with you Shimei son of Gera, the Benjamite of Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim. But he came down to meet me at the Jordan [on my return], and I swore to him by the Lord, saying, I will not put you to death with the sword." 
1Kings2:9 So do not hold him guiltless; for you are a wise man and know what you should do to him. His hoary head bring down to the grave with blood. 
1Kings2:10 So David slept with his fathers and was buried in the City of David. 
1Kings2:11 David reigned over Israel forty years,seven years in Hebron and thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
1Kings2:12 Then Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established." 
1Kings2:13 Adonijah, the son of [David and] Haggith, came to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon. She said, Do you come peaceably? And he said, Peaceably." 
1Kings2:14 He said, I have something to say to you. And she said, Say on." 
1Kings2:15 He said, You know that the kingdom belonged to me [as the eldest living son], and all Israel looked to me to reign. However, the kingdom has passed from me to my brother; for it was his from the Lord." 
1Kings2:16 Now I make one request of you; do not deny me. And she said, Say on." 
1Kings2:17 He said, I pray you, ask King Solomon, for he will not refuse you, to give me Abishag the Shunammite to be my wife. [I Kings 1:1-4.]" 
1Kings2:18 And Bathsheba said, Very well; I will speak for you to the king." 
1Kings2:19 So Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah. The king rose to meet her, bowed to her, sat down on his throne, and caused a seat to be set at his right hand for her, the king's mother." 
1Kings2:20 Then she said, I have one small request to make of you; do not refuse me. The king said to her, Ask on, my mother, for I will not refuse you." 
1Kings2:21 She said, Give Abishag the Shunammite to Adonijah your brother to be his wife." 
1Kings2:22 King Solomon answered his mother, And why do you ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him the kingdom also,for he is my elder brother,[ask it] even for him and for [his supporters] Abiathar the priest and Joab son of Zeruiah." 
1Kings2:23 Then King Solomon swore by the Lord, saying, May God do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah has not requested this against his own life." 
1Kings2:24 Therefore, as the Lord lives, Who has established me and set me on the throne of David my father and Who has made me a house as He promised, Adonijah shall be put to death this day." 
1Kings2:25 So King Solomon sent Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who attacked [Adonijah] and he died." 
1Kings2:26 And to Abiathar the priest the king said, Get to Anathoth to your own estate; for you deserve death, but I will not put you to death now, because you bore the ark of the Lord God before my father David and were afflicted in all my father endured." 
1Kings2:27 So Solomon expelled Abiathar [descendant of Eli] from being priest to the Lord, fulfilling the word of the Lord which He spoke concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh. [I Sam. 2:27-36.]" 
1Kings2:28 When the news came to Joab, for Joab had followed Adonijah though he had not followed Absalom, [he] fled to the tent (tabernacle) of the Lord and caught hold of the horns of the altar [before it]." 
1Kings2:29 King Solomon was told that Joab had fled to the tent of the Lord and was at the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, strike him down." 
1Kings2:30 So Benaiah came to the tent of the Lord and told Joab, The king commands, Come forth. But Joab said, No, I will die here. Then Benaiah brought the king word again, Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me." 
1Kings2:31 The king said to him, Do as he has said. Strike him down and bury him, that you may take away from [me and from] my father's house the innocent blood which Joab shed." 
1Kings2:32 The Lord shall return his bloody deeds upon his own head, for he fell upon two men more [uncompromisingly] righteous and honorable than he and slew them with the sword, without my father knowing of it: Abner son of Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa son of Jether, captain of the host of Judah." 
1Kings2:33 So shall their blood return upon the head of Joab and of his descendants forever. But upon David, his descendants, his house, and his throne, there shall be peace from the Lord forever." 
1Kings2:34 So Benaiah son of Jehoiada went up and struck and killed Joab, and he was buried at his own house in the wilderness." 
1Kings2:35 The king put Benaiah son of Jehoiada in Joab's place over the army and put Zadok the priest in place of Abiathar. 
1Kings2:36 The king sent for Shimei and said to him, Build yourself a house in Jerusalem and dwell there, and do not leave there." 
1Kings2:37 For on the day you go out and pass over the brook Kidron, know with certainty that you shall die; your blood shall be upon your own head." 
1Kings2:38 And Shimei said to the king, The saying is good. As my lord the king has said, so your servant will do. And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days." 
1Kings2:39 But after three years, two of Shimei's servants ran away to Achish son of Maacah, king of Gath. And Shimei was told, Behold, your [runaway] servants are in Gath." 
1Kings2:40 So Shimei arose, saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to King Achish to seek his servants, and brought them from Gath." 
1Kings2:41 It was told Solomon that Shimei went from Jerusalem to Gath and had returned. 
1Kings2:42 And the king sent for Shimei and said to him, Did I not make you swear by the Lord and warn you, saying, Know with certainty, on the day you go out and walk abroad anywhere, you shall surely die? And you said to me, I have heard your word. It is accepted." 
1Kings2:43 Why then have you not kept the oath of the Lord and the command with which I have charged you? 
1Kings2:44 The king also said to Shimei, You are aware in your own heart of all the evil you did to my father David; so the Lord will return your evil upon your own head." 
1Kings2:45 But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the Lord forever." 
1Kings2:46 So the king commanded Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who went out and struck down Shimei, and he died. And the kingdom was established in the hands of Solomon." 
1Kings3:1 AND SOLOMON made an alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt and took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her into the City of David until he had finished building his own house and the house of the Lord, and the wall around Jerusalem." 
1Kings3:2 But the people sacrificed [to God] in the high places [as the heathen did to their idols], for there was no house yet built to the Name of the Lord." 
1Kings3:3 Solomon loved the Lord, walking [at first] in the statutes and practices of David his father, only he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places." 
1Kings3:4 The king went to Gibeon [near Jerusalem, where stood the tabernacle and the bronze altar] to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. One thousand burnt offerings Solomon offered on that altar." 
1Kings3:5 In Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, Ask what I shall give you." 
1Kings3:6 Solomon said, You have shown to Your servant David my father great mercy and loving-kindness, according as he walked before You in faithfulness, righteousness, and uprightness of heart with You; and You have kept for him this great kindness and steadfast love, that You have given him a son to sit on his throne this day." 
1Kings3:7 Now, O Lord my God, You have made Your servant king instead of David my father, and I am but a lad [in wisdom and experience]; I know not how to go out (begin) or come in (finish)." 
1Kings3:8 Your servant is in the midst of Your people whom You have chosen, a great people who cannot be counted for multitude." 
1Kings3:9 So give Your servant an understanding mind and a hearing heart to judge Your people, that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge and rule this Your great people? [James 1:5.]" 
1Kings3:10 It pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this. 
1Kings3:11 God said to him, Because you have asked this and have not asked for long life or for riches, nor for the lives of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to recognize what is just and right," 
1Kings3:12 Behold, I have done as you asked. I have given you a wise, discerning mind, so that no one before you was your equal, nor shall any arise after you equal to you." 
1Kings3:13 I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among the kings equal to you all your days." 
1Kings3:14 And if you will go My way, keep My statutes and My commandments as your father David did, then I will lengthen your days." 
1Kings3:15 Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. He came to Jerusalem, stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants." 
1Kings3:16 Then two women who had become mothers out of wedlock came and stood before the king. 
1Kings3:17 And one woman said, O my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house; and I was delivered of a child with her in the house." 
1Kings3:18 And the third day after I was delivered, this woman also was delivered. And we were together; no stranger was with us, just we two in the house." 
1Kings3:19 And this woman's child died in the night because she lay on him. 
1Kings3:20 And she arose at midnight and took my son from beside me while your handmaid slept and laid him in her bosom and laid her dead child in my bosom. 
1Kings3:21 And when I rose to nurse my child, behold, he was dead. But when I had considered him in the morning, behold, it was not the son I had borne." 
1Kings3:22 But the other woman said, No! But the living one is my son, and the dead one is your son! And this one said, No! But the dead son is your son, and the living is my son. Thus they spoke before the king." 
1Kings3:23 The king said, One says, This is my son that is alive and yours is the dead one. The other woman says, No! But your son is the dead one and mine is the living one." 
1Kings3:24 And the king said, Bring me a sword. And they brought a sword to the king." 
1Kings3:25 And the king said, Divide the living child in two and give half to the one and half to the other." 
1Kings3:26 Then the mother of the living child said to the king, for she yearned over her son, O my lord, give her the living baby, and by no means slay him. But the other said, Let him not be mine or yours, but divide him." 
1Kings3:27 Then the king said, Give her [who pleads for his life] the living baby, and by no means slay him. She is the child's mother." 
1Kings3:28 And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had made, and they stood in awe of him, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do justice." 
1Kings4:1 KING SOLOMON was king over all Israel. 
1Kings4:2 These were his chief officials: Azariah son of Zadok was the [high] priest; 
1Kings4:3 Elihoreph and Ahijah, sons of Shisha, were secretaries; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder;" 
1Kings4:4 Benaiah son of Jehoiada commanded the army; Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
1Kings4:5 Azariah son of Nathan was over the officers; Zabud son of Nathan was priest and the king's friend and private advisor; 
1Kings4:6 Ahishar was in charge of the palace; and Adoniram son of Abda was in charge of the forced labor. 
1Kings4:7 Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who secured provisions for the king and his household; each man had to provide for a month in a year." 
1Kings4:8 These were their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of Ephraim;" 
1Kings4:9 Ben-deker, in Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan;" 
1Kings4:10 Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him belonged Socoh and all the land of Hepher);" 
1Kings4:11 Ben-abinadab, in Naphoth-dor (he had Taphath, Solomon's daughter, as wife);" 
1Kings4:12 Baana son of Ahilud, in Taanach, Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan below Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah as far as beyond Jokmeam;" 
1Kings4:13 Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (to him belonged the villages of Jair son of Manasseh which are in Gilead, also the region of Argob which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars);" 
1Kings4:14 Ahinadab son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;" 
1Kings4:15 Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he had taken Basemath, Solomon's daughter, as his wife);" 
1Kings4:16 Baana son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;" 
1Kings4:17 Jehoshaphat son of Paruah, in Issachar;" 
1Kings4:18 Shimei son of Ela, in Benjamin;" 
1Kings4:19 Geber son of Uri, in Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; only one officer was over all the country [at one time, each serving for one month]." 
1Kings4:20 Judah and Israel were many, like the sand which is by the sea in multitude; they ate, drank, and rejoiced." 
1Kings4:21 Solomon reigned over all the kingdoms from the [Euphrates] River to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt; they brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life. 
1Kings4:22 Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, sixty measures of meal," 
1Kings4:23 Ten fat oxen, twenty pasture-fed cattle, a hundred sheep, besides harts, gazelles, roebucks, and fatted fowl of choice kinds." 
1Kings4:24 For he had dominion over all the region west of the [Euphrates] River, from Tiphsah to Gaza, over all the kings west of the River, and he had peace on all sides around him." 
1Kings4:25 Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and fig tree, from Dan to Beersheba, all of Solomon's days." 
1Kings4:26 Solomon also had 40,000 stalls of horses for his chariots, and 12,000 horsemen." 
1Kings4:27 And those officers provided food for King Solomon and for all who came to his table, every man in his month; they let nothing be lacking." 
1Kings4:28 Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds they brought to the place where it was needed, each according to his assignment." 
1Kings4:29 And God gave Solomon exceptionally much wisdom and understanding, and breadth of mind like the sand of the seashore." 
1Kings4:30 Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the people of the East and all the wisdom of Egypt. 
1Kings4:31 For he was wiser than all other men,than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. His fame was in all the nations round about." 
1Kings4:31 For he was wiser than all other men,than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. His fame was in all the nations round about." 
1Kings4:32 He also originated 3,000 proverbs, and his songs were 1,005." 
1Kings4:33 He spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that grows out of the wall; he spoke also of beasts, of birds, of creeping things, and of fish." 
1Kings4:34 Men came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom." 
1Kings5:1 HIRAM KING of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, when he heard that he was anointed king in place of his father, for Hiram always loved David." 
1Kings5:2 And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying," 
1Kings5:3 You know how David my father could not build a house to the Name of the Lord his God because wars were about him on every side, until the Lord put his foes under his feet. [II Sam. 7:4ff.; I Chron. 22:8.]" 
1Kings5:4 But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side, so that there is neither adversary nor evil confronting me." 
1Kings5:5 And I purpose to build a house to the Name of the Lord my God, as the Lord said to David my father, Your son whom I will set on your throne in your place shall build the house to My Name and Presence." 
1Kings5:6 So, Hiram, command them to hew me cedar trees out of Lebanon; my servants shall join yours, and I will give you whatever wages you set for your servants. For you know that no one among us can equal the skill of the Sidon men in cutting timber." 
1Kings5:7 When Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly and said, Blessed be the Lord this day, Who has given David a wise son to be over this great people." 
1Kings5:8 And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, I have considered the things for which you sent to me; I will do all you wish concerning the cedar and cypress timber." 
1Kings5:9 My servants shall bring the logs down from Lebanon to the sea, make them into rafts, and float them by sea to the place that you direct. I will have them released there, and you shall take them away. And you shall fulfill my desire by providing food for my household." 
1Kings5:10 So Hiram gave Solomon all the cedar and cypress trees he desired," 
1Kings5:11 And Solomon gave Hiram 20,000 measures of wheat for food for his household, and 20 measures of pure, beaten oil. He gave these to Hiram yearly." 
1Kings5:12 The Lord gave Solomon wisdom, as He promised him; and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and they made a treaty." 
1Kings5:13 King Solomon raised a levy [of forced labor] out of all Israel; and the levy was 30,000 men." 
1Kings5:14 He sent them to Lebanon, 10,000 a month by divisions; one month they were in Lebanon and two months at home. Adoniram was over the levy." 
1Kings5:15 And Solomon had 70,000 burden bearers and 80,000 hewers [of stone] in the hill country of Judah," 
1Kings5:16 Besides Solomon's 3,300 overseers in charge of the people doing the work." 
1Kings5:17 The king commanded, and they hewed and brought out great, costly stones in order to lay the foundation of the house with dressed stone." 
1Kings5:18 Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the men of Gebal did the hewing and prepared the timber and stones to build the house. 
1Kings6:1 AND 480 years after the Israelites came out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the second month, Ziv, he began to build the Lord's house." 
1Kings6:2 The length of the house Solomon built for the Lord was sixty cubits, its breadth twenty, and its height thirty cubits." 
1Kings6:3 The length of the vestibule in front of the temple was twenty cubits, equal to the width of the house, and its depth in front of the house was ten cubits." 
1Kings6:4 For the house he made narrow [latticed] windows. 
1Kings6:5 Against the wall of the house he built chambers running round the walls of the house both of the Holy Place and of the Holy of Holies; and he made side chambers all around. 
1Kings6:6 The first story's side chambers were five cubits wide, those of the middle story six cubits wide, and of the third story seven cubits wide; for around the outside of the wall of the house he made offsets in order that the supporting beams should not be thrust into the walls of the house." 
1Kings6:7 When the house was being built, its stone was made ready at the quarry, and no hammer, ax, or tool of iron was heard in the house while it was in building." 
1Kings6:8 The entrance to the lowest side chamber was on the right [or south] side of the house; and one went up winding stairs into the middle chamber and from the middle into the third. 
1Kings6:9 So Solomon built the temple building and finished it, and roofed the house with beams and boards of cedar." 
1Kings6:10 Then he built the stories of chambers [the lean-to] against all the house, each [story] five cubits high; and it was joined to the house with timbers of cedar." 
1Kings6:11 Now the word of the Lord came to Solomon, saying," 
1Kings6:12 Concerning this house which you are building, if you will walk in My statutes, execute My precepts, and keep all My commandments to walk in them, then I will fulfill to you My promises which I made to David your father." 
1Kings6:13 And I will dwell among the Israelites and will not forsake My people Israel. 
1Kings6:14 So Solomon built the house and finished it. 
1Kings6:15 He built the walls of the house (the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies) within with boards of cedar, from the floor of the house to the rafters of the ceiling. He covered the inside with wood, and the floor of the house with boards of cypress." 
1Kings6:16 He built twenty cubits of the rear of the house with boards of cedar from the floor to the rafters; he built it within for the sanctuary, the Holy of Holies." 
1Kings6:17 The [rest of the] house, that is, the temple in front of the Holy of Holies, was forty cubits long." 
1Kings6:18 The cedar on the house within was carved with gourds and open flowers. All was cedar; no stone was visible. 
1Kings6:19 And he prepared the Holy of Holies in the inner room in which to set the ark of the covenant of the Lord. 
1Kings6:20 The Holy of Holies was twenty cubits in length, in breadth, and in height. He overlaid it with pure gold. He also overlaid the cedar altar." 
1Kings6:21 Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold, and he drew chains of gold across in front of the Holy of Holies and overlaid it with gold." 
1Kings6:22 And the whole house he overlaid with gold, until all the house was finished. Also the whole [incense] altar that [stood outside the door but] belonged to the Holy of Holies he overlaid with gold." 
1Kings6:23 Within the Holy of Holies he made two cherubim of olive wood, each ten cubits high." 
1Kings6:24 Five cubits was the length of one wing of the cherub and five cubits its other wing; from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other was ten cubits. 
1Kings6:25 The wings of the other cherub were also ten cubits. Both cherubim were the same," 
1Kings6:26 The height of one cherub ten cubits, as was the other." 
1Kings6:27 He put the cherubim within the inner sanctuary. Their wings were stretched out, so that the wing of one touched one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall, and their inner wings touched in the midst of the room." 
1Kings6:28 Solomon overlaid the cherubim with gold. 
1Kings6:29 He carved all the walls of the house (these two holy rooms) round about with figures of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, within and without." 
1Kings6:30 The floor of the house he overlaid with gold, inside and out." 
1Kings6:31 For the Holy of Holies he made [folding] doors of olive wood; their entire width was one-fifth that of the wall. 
1Kings6:32 On the two doors of olive wood he carved cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers; he overlaid them with gold, and spread gold on the cherubim and palm trees." 
1Kings6:33 Also he made for the door of the Holy Place four-sided posts of olive wood. 
1Kings6:34 The two doors were of cypress wood; the two leaves of each door were folding. 
1Kings6:35 He carved on them cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, covered with gold evenly applied on the carved work." 
1Kings6:36 He built the inner court with three rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar beams. 
1Kings6:37 In the fourth year the foundation of the Lord's house was laid, in the [second] month, Ziv." 
1Kings6:38 In the eleventh year, in Bul, the eighth month, the house was finished throughout according to all its specifications. So he was seven years in building it." 
1Kings7:1 SOLOMON WAS building his own houseofficers over all Israel, who se all of it." 
1Kings7:2 He built also the Forest of Lebanon House; its length was a hundred cubits, its breadth fifty, and its height thirty cubits, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars." 
1Kings7:3 And it was covered with cedar above the side chambers that were upon the forty-five pillars, fifteen in a row." 
1Kings7:4 There were window frames in three rows, and window opposite window in three tiers." 
1Kings7:5 All the doorways and windows were square cut, and window was opposite window in three tiers." 
1Kings7:6 He also made the Hall of Pillars; its length was fifty cubits and its breadth thirty cubits. There was a porch in front, and pillars and a cornice before them." 
1Kings7:7 He made the porch for the throne where he was to judge, the Porch of Judgment; it was covered with cedar from floor to ceiling." 
1Kings7:8 His house where he was to dwell had another court behind the Porch of Judgment of similar work. Solomon also made a house like this porch for Pharaoh's daughter, whom he had married." 
1Kings7:9 All were of costly stones hewn according to measure, sawed with saws back and front, even from foundation to coping, and from the outside to the great court." 
1Kings7:10 The foundation was of costly stones, even great stones of eight and ten cubits." 
1Kings7:11 And above were costly stones hewn according to measure, and cedar timbers." 
1Kings7:12 Also the great encircling court had three courses of hewn stone and a course of cedar beams, like was around the inner court of the house of the Lord and the porch of the house." 
1Kings7:13 King Solomon brought Hiram from Tyre. 
1Kings7:14 He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in bronze. He was full of wisdom, understanding, and skill to do any kind of work in bronze. So he came to King Solomon and did all his [bronze] work." 
1Kings7:15 He fashioned the two pillars of bronze, each eighteen cubits high, and a line of twelve cubits measured its circumference." 
1Kings7:16 He made two capitals of molten bronze to set upon the tops of the pillars; the height of each capital was five cubits. 
1Kings7:17 Nets of checkerwork and wreaths of chainwork for the capitals were on the tops of the pillars, seven for each capital." 
1Kings7:18 So Hiram made the pillars. There were two rows of pomegranates encircling each network to cover the capitals that were upon the top. 
1Kings7:19 The capitals that were upon the top of the pillars in the porch were of lily work [design], four cubits." 
1Kings7:20 The capitals were upon the two pillars and also above the rounded projection beside the network. There were 200 pomegranates in two rows round about, and so with the other capital." 
1Kings7:21 Hiram set up the pillars of the porch of the temple; he set up the right pillar and called its name Jachin [he will establish], and he set up the left pillar and called its name Boaz [in strength]." 
1Kings7:22 On the tops of the pillars was lily work [design]. So the work of the pillars was finished. 
1Kings7:23 He made a round molten Sea, ten cubits from brim to brim, five cubits high and thirty cubits in circumference. [Exod. 30:17-21; II Chron. 4:6.]" 
1Kings7:24 Under its brim were gourds encircling the Sea, ten to a cubit; the gourds were in two rows, cast in one piece with it." 
1Kings7:25 It stood upon twelve oxen, three facing north, three west, three south, and three east; the Sea was set upon them, and all their rears pointed inward." 
1Kings7:26 It was a handbreadth thick, and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom. It held 2,000 baths [Hebrew liquid measurement]." 
1Kings7:27 Hiram made ten bronze bases [for the lavers]; their length and breadth were four cubits, and the height three cubits." 
1Kings7:28 This is the way the bases were made: they had panels between the ledges. 
1Kings7:29 On the panels between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubim; and upon the ledges there was a pedestal above. Beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work." 
1Kings7:30 And every base had four bronze wheels and axles of bronze, and at the four corners were supports for a laver. Beneath the laver the supports were cast, with wreaths at the side of each." 
1Kings7:31 Its mouth within the capital projected upward a cubit, and its mouth was round like the work of a pedestal, a cubit and a half. Also upon its mouth were carvings, and their borders were square, not round." 
1Kings7:32 Under the borders were four wheels, and the axles of the wheels were one piece with the base. And the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half." 
1Kings7:33 The wheels were made like a chariot wheel: their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their hubs were all cast." 
1Kings7:34 There were four supports to the four corners of each base; the supports were part of the base itself. 
1Kings7:35 On the top of the base there was a circular elevation half a cubit high, and on the top of the base its stays and panels were of one piece with it." 
1Kings7:36 And on the surface of its stays and its panels Hiram carved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, according to the space of each, with wreaths round about." 
1Kings7:37 Thus he made the ten bases. They all had one casting, one measure, and one form." 
1Kings7:38 Then he made ten lavers of bronze; each laver held forty baths and measured four cubits, and there was one laver on each of the ten bases." 
1Kings7:39 He put the bases five on the south side of the house and five on the north side; and he set the Sea at the southeast corner of the house. 
1Kings7:40 Hiram made the lavers, the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram finished all the work that he did for King Solomon on the house of the Lord:" 
1Kings7:41 The two pillars; and the two bowls of the capitals that were on the tops of the two pillars; and the two networks to cover the two bowls; 
1Kings7:42 And the 400 pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were upon the pillars;" 
1Kings7:43 The ten bases and the ten lavers on the bases; 
1Kings7:44 One Sea, and the twelve oxen under it;" 
1Kings7:45 The pots, the shovels, and the basins. All these vessels which Hiram made for King Solomon in the house of the Lord were of burnished bronze." 
1Kings7:46 In the Jordan plain the king cast them, in clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan." 
1Kings7:47 Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because they were so many; the weight of the bronze was not found out." 
1Kings7:48 Solomon made all the other vessels of the Lord's house: the [incense] altar of gold; the table of gold for the showbread; 
1Kings7:49 The lampstands of pure gold, five on the right side and five on the left, in front of the Holy of Holies; with the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs of gold;" 
1Kings7:50 The cups, snuffers, basins, spoons, firepans,of pure gold; and the hinges of gold for the doors of the innermost room, the Holy of Holies, and for the doors of the Holy Place." 
1Kings7:51 So all the work that King Solomon did on the house of the Lord was completed. Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated,the silver, the gold, and the vessels,and put them in the treasuries of the Lord's house." 
1Kings8:1 THEN SOLOMON assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the Israelites, before the king in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of Zion, the City of David." 
1Kings8:2 All the men of Israel assembled themselves before King Solomon at the feast in the seventh month, Ethanim." 
1Kings8:3 All the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark." 
1Kings8:4 And they brought up the ark of the Lord, the Tent of Meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the tent; the priests and the Levites brought them up." 
1Kings8:5 King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who had assembled before him were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen, so many that they could not be reported or counted." 
1Kings8:6 And the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place in the Holy of Holies of the house, under the wings of the cherubim." 
1Kings8:7 For the cherubim spread forth their two wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and its poles." 
1Kings8:8 The poles were so long that the ends of them were seen from the Holy Place before the Holy of Holies, but they were not seen outside; they are there to this day." 
1Kings8:9 There was nothing in the ark except the two tables of stone which Moses put there at Horeb, where the Lord made a covenant with the Israelites when they came out of the land of Egypt. [Deut. 10:2-5.]" 
1Kings8:10 When the priests had come out of the Holy Place, the cloud filled the Lord's house," 
1Kings8:11 So the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's house." 
1Kings8:12 Then Solomon said, The Lord said that He would dwell in the thick darkness." 
1Kings8:13 I have surely built You a house of habitation, a settled place for You to dwell in forever." 
1Kings8:14 And the king turned his face about and blessed all the assembly of Israel, and all the assembly of Israel stood." 
1Kings8:15 He said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, Who spoke with His mouth to David my father and has with His hand fulfilled it, saying," 
1Kings8:16 Since the day that I brought forth My people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house that My Name [and My Presence] might be in it, but I chose David to be over My people Israel." 
1Kings8:17 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the Name [the Presence] of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
1Kings8:18 And the Lord said to David my father, Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for My Name, you did well that it was in your heart." 
1Kings8:19 Yet you shall not build the house, but your son, who shall be born to you, shall build it to My Name [and My actively present Person]." 
1Kings8:20 And the Lord has fulfilled His promise which He made: I have risen up in the place of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as the Lord promised, and have built a house for the Name (renown) of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
1Kings8:21 And I have made there a place for the ark [the token of His presence], in which is the covenant [the Ten Commandments] of the Lord which He made with our fathers when He brought them out of the land of Egypt. [Exod. 34:28.]" 
1Kings8:22 Then Solomon stood [in the court] before the Lord's burnt offering altar in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven" 
1Kings8:23 And he said, O Lord, the God of Israel, there is no God like You in heaven above or on earth beneath, keeping covenant and showing mercy and loving-kindness to Your servants who walk before You with all their heart." 
1Kings8:24 You have kept what You promised Your servant David my father. You also spoke with Your mouth and have fulfilled it with Your hand, as it is this day." 
1Kings8:25 Therefore now, O Lord, the God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father what You promised him when You said, There shall not fail you a man before Me to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children take heed to their way, that they walk before Me as you have done." 
1Kings8:26 Now, O God of Israel, let Your word which You spoke to Your servant David my father be confirmed [by experience]." 
1Kings8:27 But will God indeed dwell with men on the earth? Behold, the heavens and heaven of heavens [in its most extended compass] cannot contain You; how much less this house that I have built?" 
1Kings8:28 Yet graciously consider the prayer and supplication of Your servant, O Lord my God, to hearken to the [loud] cry and prayer which he prays before You today," 
1Kings8:29 That Your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, toward the place of which You have said, My Name [and the token of My presence] shall be there, that You may hearken to the prayer which Your servant shall make in [or facing toward] this place." 
1Kings8:30 Hearken to the prayer of Your servant and of Your people Israel when they pray in or toward this place. Hear in heaven, Your dwelling place, and when You hear, forgive." 
1Kings8:31 Whenever a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath and comes and swears the oath before Your altar in this house," 
1Kings8:32 Then hear in heaven and do and judge Your servants, condemning the wicked by bringing his guilt upon his own head and justifying the [uncompromisingly] righteous by rewarding him according to his righteousness (his uprightness, right standing with God)." 
1Kings8:33 When Your people Israel are struck down before the enemy because they have sinned against You, and they turn again to You, confess Your name (Your revelation of Yourself), and pray, beseeching You in this house," 
1Kings8:34 Then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of Your people Israel and return them to the land You gave to their fathers. 
1Kings8:35 When heaven is shut up and no rain falls because they have sinned against You, if they pray in [or toward] this place and confess Your name (Your revelation of Yourself) and turn from their sin when You afflict them," 
1Kings8:36 Then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of Your servants, Your people Israel, when You teach them the good way in which they should walk. And give rain upon Your land which You have given to Your people as an inheritance." 
1Kings8:37 If there is famine in the land or pestilence, blight, mildew, locust, or caterpillar, if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is," 
1Kings8:38 Whatever prayer or supplication is made by any or all of Your people Israel,each man knowing the affliction of his own heart, and spreading forth his hands toward this house [and its pledge of Your presence]," 
1Kings8:39 Then hear in heaven, Your dwelling place, and forgive and act and give to every man according to his ways, whose heart You know, for You and You only know the hearts of all the children of men," 
1Kings8:40 That they may fear and revere You all the days that they live in the land which You gave to our fathers. 
1Kings8:41 Moreover, concerning a stranger who is not of Your people Israel but comes from a far country for the sake of Your name [and Your active Presence]," 
1Kings8:42 For they will hear of Your great name (Your revelation of Yourself), Your strong hand, and outstretched arm,when he shall pray in [or toward] this house," 
1Kings8:43 Hear in heaven, Your dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger asks of You, so that all peoples of the earth may know Your name [and Your revelation of Your presence] and fear and revere You, as do Your people Israel, and may know and comprehend that this house which I have built is called by Your Name [and contains the token of Your presence]." 
1Kings8:44 If Your people go out to battle against their enemy, wherever You shall send them, and shall pray to the Lord toward the city which You have chosen and the house that I have built for Your Name [and Your revelation of Yourself]," 
1Kings8:45 Then hear in heaven their prayer and supplication, and defend their cause and maintain their right." 
1Kings8:46 If they sin against You,for there is no man who does not sin,and You are angry with them and deliver them to the enemy, so that they are carried away captive to the enemy's land, far or near;" 
1Kings8:47 Yet if they think and consider in the land where they were carried captive, and repent and make supplication to You there, saying, We have sinned and have done perversely and wickedly;" 
1Kings8:48 If they repent and turn to You with all their mind and with all their heart in the land of their enemies who took them captive, and pray to You toward their land which You gave to their fathers, the city which You have chosen, and the house which I have built for Your Name;" 
1Kings8:49 Then hear their prayer and their supplication in heaven, Your dwelling place, and defend their cause and maintain their right." 
1Kings8:50 And forgive Your people, who have sinned against You, and all their transgressions against You, and grant them compassion before those who took them captive, that they may have pity and be merciful to them;" 
1Kings8:51 For they are Your people and Your heritage, which You brought out of Egypt, from the midst of the iron furnace." 
1Kings8:52 Let Your eyes be open to the supplication of Your servant and of Your people Israel, to hearken to them in all for which they call to You." 
1Kings8:53 For You separated them from among all the peoples of the earth to be Your heritage, as You declared through Moses Your servant when You brought our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord God." 
1Kings8:54 When Solomon finished offering all this prayer and supplication to the Lord, he arose from before the Lord's altar, where he had knelt with hands stretched toward heaven." 
1Kings8:55 And he stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying," 
1Kings8:56 Blessed be the Lord, Who has given rest to His people Israel, according to all that He promised. Not one word has failed of all His good promise which He promised through Moses His servant." 
1Kings8:57 May the Lord our God be with us as He was with our fathers; may He not leave us or forsake us," 
1Kings8:58 That He may incline our hearts to Him, to walk in all His ways and to keep His commandments, His statutes, and His precepts which He commanded our fathers." 
1Kings8:59 Let these my words, with which I have made supplication before the Lord, be near to the Lord our God day and night, that He may maintain the cause and right of His servant and of His people Israel as each day requires," 
1Kings8:60 That all the earth's people may know that the Lord is God and that there is no other. 
1Kings8:61 Let your hearts therefore be blameless and wholly true to the Lord our God, to walk in His statutes and to keep His commandments, as today." 
1Kings8:62 And the king and all Israel with him offered sacrifice before the Lord. 
1Kings8:63 Solomon offered as peace offerings to the Lord: 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the Israelites dedicated the house of the Lord." 
1Kings8:64 On that same day the king consecrated the middle of the court that was before the Lord's house; there he offered burnt offerings, cereal offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar that was before the Lord was too small to receive [all] the offerings." 
1Kings8:65 So at that time Solomon held the feast, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the Brook of Egypt, before the Lord our God, for seven days [for the dedication] and seven days [for the Feast of Tabernacles], fourteen days in all." 
1Kings8:66 On the eighth day he sent the people away; they blessed the king and went to their tents with greatest joy and gratitude for all the goodness the Lord had shown to David His servant and Israel His people. 
1Kings9:1 WHEN SOLOMON finished the building of the Lord's house and the king's house, and all he desired and was pleased to do," 
1Kings9:2 The Lord appeared to Solomon the second time, as He had appeared to him at Gibeon." 
1Kings9:3 The Lord told him, I have heard your prayer and supplication which you have made before Me; I have hallowed this house which you have built, and I have put My Name [and My Presence] there forever. My eyes and My heart shall be there perpetually." 
1Kings9:4 And if you will walk before Me, as David your father walked, in integrity of heart and uprightness, doing according to all that I have commanded you, keeping My statutes and My precepts," 
1Kings9:5 Then I will establish your royal throne over Israel forever, as I promised David your father, saying, There shall not fail you [to have] a man upon the throne of Israel." 
1Kings9:6 But if you turn away from following Me, you or your children, and will not keep My commandments and My statutes which I have set before you but go and serve other gods and worship them," 
1Kings9:7 Then I will cut off Israel from the land I have given them, and this house I have hallowed for My Name (renown) I will cast from My sight. And Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all the peoples." 
1Kings9:8 This house shall become a heap of ruins; every passerby shall be astonished and shall hiss [with surprise] and say, Why has the Lord done thus to this land and to this house?" 
1Kings9:9 Then they will answer, Because they forsook the Lord their God, Who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and have laid hold of other gods and have worshiped and served them; therefore the Lord has brought on them all this evil." 
1Kings9:10 At the end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the two houses, the Lord's house and the king's house," 
1Kings9:11 For which Hiram king of Tyre had furnished Solomon with as much cedar and cypress timber and gold as he desired, King Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee." 
1Kings9:12 And Hiram came from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him, and they did not please him." 
1Kings9:13 He said, What are these cities worth which you have given me, my brother? So they are called the Cabul [unproductive] Land to this day." 
1Kings9:14 And Hiram sent to the king 120 talents of gold. 
1Kings9:15 This is the account of the levy [of forced labor] which King Solomon raised to build the house of the Lord, his own house, the Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer." 
1Kings9:16 For Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up and taken Gezer, burned it with fire, slew the Canaanites who dwelt in the city, and had given it as dowry to his daughter, Solomon's wife." 
1Kings9:17 So Solomon rebuilt Gezer and Lower Beth-horon," 
1Kings9:18 Baalath and Tamar (Tadmor) in the wilderness, in the land of Judah," 
1Kings9:19 And all the store cities which Solomon had and cities for his chariots and cities for his horsemen, and whatever Solomon desired to build for his pleasure in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion." 
1Kings9:20 As for all the people who were left of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, who were not Israelites," 
1Kings9:21 Their children who were left after them in the land, whom the Israelites were not able utterly to destroy, of them Solomon made a forced levy of slaves to this day." 
1Kings9:22 But Solomon made no slaves of the Israelites; they were the soldiers, his officials, attendants, commanders, captains, chariot officers, and horsemen." 
1Kings9:23 These were the chief officers over Solomon's work, 550 who had charge of the people who did the work." 
1Kings9:24 But Pharaoh's daughter came up out of the City of David to her house which Solomon had built for her; then he built the Millo. 
1Kings9:25 Three times a year Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar he built to the Lord, and he burned incense with them before the Lord. So he finished the house." 
1Kings9:26 And King Solomon made a fleet of ships in Ezion-geber, which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red Sea, in Edom." 
1Kings9:27 And Hiram sent with the fleet his servants, shipmen who had knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Solomon." 
1Kings9:28 They came to Ophir and got 420 talents of gold and brought it to King Solomon. 
1Kings10:1 WHEN THE queen of Sheba heard of [the constant connection of] the fame of Solomon with the name of the Lord, she came to prove him with hard questions (problems and riddles)." 
1Kings10:2 She came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels bearing spices, very much gold, and precious stones. When she had come to Solomon, she communed with him about all that was in her mind." 
1Kings10:3 Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing hidden from the king which he failed to explain to her. 
1Kings10:4 When the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon's wisdom and skill, the house he had built," 
1Kings10:5 The food of his table, the seating of his officials, the standing at attention of his servants, their apparel, his cupbearers, his ascent by which he went up to the house of the Lord [or the burnt offerings he sacrificed], she was breathless and overcome." 
1Kings10:6 She said to the king, It was a true report I heard in my own land of your acts and sayings and wisdom." 
1Kings10:7 I did not believe it until I came and my eyes had seen. Behold, the half was not told me. You have added wisdom and goodness exceeding the fame I heard." 
1Kings10:8 Happy are your men! Happy are these your servants who stand continually before you, hearing your wisdom!" 
1Kings10:9 Blessed be the Lord your God, Who delighted in you and set you on the throne of Israel! Because the Lord loved Israel forever, He made you king to execute justice and righteousness." 
1Kings10:10 And she gave the king 120 talents of gold and of spices a very great store and precious stones. Never again came such abundance of spices as these the queen of Sheba gave King Solomon. 
1Kings10:11 The navy also of Hiram brought from Ophir gold and a great plenty of almug (algum) wood and precious stones. 
1Kings10:12 Of the almug wood the king made pillars for the house of the Lord and for the king's house, and lyres also and harps for the singers. No such almug wood came again or has been seen to this day." 
1Kings10:13 King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all she wanted, whatever she asked, besides his gifts to her from his royal bounty. So she returned to her own country, she and her servants." 
1Kings10:14 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one [particular] year was 666 talents of gold," 
1Kings10:15 Besides what the traders brought and the traffic of the merchants and from all the [tributary] kings and governors of the land of Arabia. 
1Kings10:16 King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold; 600 shekels of gold went into each shield. 
1Kings10:17 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold; three minas of gold went into each shield. The king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon. 
1Kings10:18 Also the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with the finest gold. 
1Kings10:19 The throne had six steps, and attached at the rear of the top of the throne was a round covering or canopy. On either side of the seat were armrests, and two lions stood beside the armrests." 
1Kings10:20 Twelve lions stood there, one on either end of each of the six steps; there was nothing like it ever made in any kingdom." 
1Kings10:21 All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None were of silver; it was accounted as nothing in the days of Solomon." 
1Kings10:22 For the king had a fleet of ships of Tarshish at sea with the fleet of Hiram. Once every three years the fleet of ships of Tarshish came bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks." 
1Kings10:23 So King Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom (skill). 
1Kings10:24 And all the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom which God had put in his mind. 
1Kings10:25 Every man brought tribute: vessels of silver and gold, garments, equipment, spices, horses, and mules, so much year by year." 
1Kings10:26 Solomon collected chariots and horsemen; he had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen, which he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem." 
1Kings10:27 The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the lowlands." 
1Kings10:28 Solomon's horses were brought out of Egypt, and the king's merchants received them in droves, each at a price. [Deut. 17:15, 16.]" 
1Kings10:29 A chariot could be brought out of Egypt for 600 shekels of silver, and a horse for 150. And so to all the kings of the Hittites and of Syria they were exported by the king's merchants." 
1Kings11:1 BUT KING Solomon [defiantly] loved many foreign women,the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites." 
1Kings11:2 They were of the very nations of whom the Lord said to the Israelites, You shall not mingle with them, neither shall they mingle with you, for surely they will turn away your hearts after their gods. Yet Solomon clung to these in love. [Deut. 17:17.]" 
1Kings11:3 He had 700 wives, princesses, and 300 concubines, and his wives turned away his heart from God." 
1Kings11:4 For when Solomon was old, his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect (complete and whole) with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father." 
1Kings11:5 For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom the abominable idol of the Ammonites! [I Kings 9:6-9.]" 
1Kings11:6 Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord, and went not fully after the Lord, as David his father did." 
1Kings11:7 Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh the abominable idol of Moab, on the hill opposite Jerusalem, and for Molech the abominable idol of the Ammonites." 
1Kings11:8 And he did so for all of his foreign wives, who burned incense and sacrificed to their gods." 
1Kings11:9 And the Lord was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned from the Lord, the God of Israel, Who had appeared to him twice," 
1Kings11:10 And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but he did not do what the Lord commanded." 
1Kings11:11 Therefore the Lord said to Solomon, Because you are doing this and have not kept My covenant and My statutes, which I have commanded you, I will surely rend the kingdom from you and will give it to your servant!" 
1Kings11:12 However, in your days I will not do it, for David your father's sake. But I will rend it out of the hand of your son!" 
1Kings11:13 However, I will not tear away all the kingdom, but will give one tribe to your son for David My servant's sake and for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen." 
1Kings11:14 The Lord stirred up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of royal descent in Edom." 
1Kings11:15 For when David was in Edom, and Joab the commander of Israel's army went up to bury the slain, he slew every male in Edom." 
1Kings11:16 For Joab and all Israel remained there for six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom." 
1Kings11:17 But Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants, to Egypt, Hadad being yet a little child." 
1Kings11:18 They set out from Midian and came to Paran, and took men with them out of Paran and came to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave [young] Hadad a house and land and ordered provisions for him." 
1Kings11:19 Hadad found great favor with Pharaoh, so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his own wife Tahpenes the queen." 
1Kings11:20 The sister of Tahpenes bore Hadad Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh's household among the sons of Pharaoh." 
1Kings11:21 But when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the commander of Israel's army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart, that I may go to my own country." 
1Kings11:22 Then Pharaoh said to him, But what have you lacked with me that now you want to go to your own country? He replied, Nothing. However, let me go anyhow." 
1Kings11:23 God raised up for [Hadad] another adversary, Rezon son of Eliada, who had fled from his master, Hadadezer king of Zobah." 
1Kings11:24 Rezon gathered men about him and became leader of a marauding band after the slaughter by David. They went to Damascus and dwelt and made [Rezon] king in Damascus. 
1Kings11:25 And Rezon was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, besides the mischief that Hadad did. Rezon abhorred Israel and reigned over Syria." 
1Kings11:26 Jeroboam son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda, Solomon's servant, whose mother's name was Zeruah, a widow woman, rebelled against the king," 
1Kings11:27 And for this reason: Solomon built the Millo and repaired the breaches of the city of David his father. 
1Kings11:28 The man Jeroboam was a mighty man of courage. Solomon, seeing that the young man was industrious, put him in charge over all the [forced] labor of the house of Joseph." 
1Kings11:29 At that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite met him on the way. Ahijah had clad himself with a new garment; and they were alone in the field." 
1Kings11:30 Ahijah caught the new garment he wore and tore it into twelve pieces. 
1Kings11:31 He said to Jeroboam, You take ten pieces, for thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, Behold, I will tear the kingdom from the hand of Solomon and will give you ten tribes." 
1Kings11:32 But he shall have one tribe, for My servant David's sake and for Jerusalem's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel," 
1Kings11:33 Because they have forsaken Me and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the Ammonites, and have not walked in My ways, to do what is right in My sight, keeping My statutes and My ordinances as did David his father." 
1Kings11:34 However, I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand; but I will make him ruler all the days of his life for David My servant's sake, whom I chose because he kept My commandments and My statutes." 
1Kings11:35 But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand and give it to you, ten tribes." 
1Kings11:36 Yet to his son I will give one tribe, that David My servant may always have a light before Me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen to put My Name." 
1Kings11:37 And I will take you, and you shall reign according to all that your soul desires; and you shall be king over Israel." 
1Kings11:38 And if you will hearken to all I command you and will walk in My ways and do right in My sight, keeping My statutes and My commandments, as David My servant did, I will be with you and build you a sure house, as I built for David, and will give Israel to you." 
1Kings11:39 And I will for this afflict the descendants of David, but not forever." 
1Kings11:40 Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. But Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt, to Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until Solomon died." 
1Kings11:41 The rest of the acts of Solomon,and all that he did, and his wisdom (skill),are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?" 
1Kings11:42 The time Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 
1Kings11:43 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father. Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings12:1 REHOBOAM WENT to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king." 
1Kings12:2 And when Jeroboam son of Nebat heard of it,for he still dwelt in Egypt, where he had fled from King Solomon,[he] returned from Egypt." 
1Kings12:3 And they sent and called him, and Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came and said to Rehoboam," 
1Kings12:4 Your father made our yoke heavy; now therefore lighten the hard service and the heavy yoke your father put upon us, and we will serve you." 
1Kings12:5 He replied, Go away for three days and then return to me. So the people departed." 
1Kings12:6 And King Rehoboam consulted with the old men who stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived and said, How do you advise me to answer this people?" 
1Kings12:7 And they said to him, If you will be a servant to this people today and serve them and answer them with good words, they will be your servants forever." 
1Kings12:8 But he forsook the counsel the old men gave him and consulted the young men who grew up with him and stood before him. 
1Kings12:9 He said to them, What do you advise that we answer this people who have said, Make the yoke your father put on us lighter?" 
1Kings12:10 The young men who grew up with him answered, To the people who told you, Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make it lighter for us,say this, My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins." 
1Kings12:11 And now whereas my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions." 
1Kings12:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king had appointed." 
1Kings12:13 And the king answered the people roughly and forsook the counsel the old men had given him," 
1Kings12:14 And spoke to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke; he chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions." 
1Kings12:15 So the king did not hearken to the people, for the situation was from the Lord, that He might fulfill His word which He spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam son of Nebat. [I Kings 11:29-33.]" 
1Kings12:16 So when all Israel saw that the king did not heed them, they answered the king, What portion have we in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel! Look now to your own house, David! So Israel went to their tents." 
1Kings12:17 But Rehoboam reigned over the Israelites who dwelt in the cities of Judah. 
1Kings12:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the tribute [taskmaster over the forced labor], and all Israel stoned him to death with stones. So King Rehoboam hastened to get into his chariot to flee to Jerusalem." 
1Kings12:19 So Israel has rebelled against the house of David to this day. 
1Kings12:20 When all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, they sent and called him to the assembly and made him king over all Israel. None followed the house of David except the tribe of Judah only." 
1Kings12:21 And when Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah, with the tribe of Benjamin, 180,000 chosen warriors, to fight against the house of Israel to bring the kingdom back to Rehoboam son of Solomon." 
1Kings12:22 But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying," 
1Kings12:23 Tell Rehoboam son of Solomon king of Judah and all the house of Judah and Benjamin and the remnant of the people," 
1Kings12:24 Thus says the Lord, You shall not go up or fight against your brethren, the Israelites. Return every man to his house, for this thing is from Me. So they hearkened to the Lord's word and returned home, according to the Lord's word." 
1Kings12:25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and lived there. He went out from there and built Penuel. 
1Kings12:26 Jeroboam said in his heart, Now the kingdom will return to the house of David." 
1Kings12:27 If this people goes up to the house of the Lord at Jerusalem to sacrifice, then the heart of this people will turn again to their lord, to Rehoboam king of Judah; and they will kill me and go back to Rehoboam king of Judah." 
1Kings12:28 So the king took counsel and made two calves of gold. And he said to the people, It is too much for you to go [all the way] up to Jerusalem. Behold your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt." 
1Kings12:29 And he set the one golden calf in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan." 
1Kings12:30 And this thing became a sin; for the people went to worship each of them even as far as Dan. 
1Kings12:31 Jeroboam also made houses on high places and made priests of people who were not Levites. 
1Kings12:32 And Jeroboam appointed a feast on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, like the feast kept in Judah, and he offered sacrifices upon the altar. So he did in Bethel, sacrificing to the calves he had made. And he placed in Bethel the priests of the high places he had made." 
1Kings12:33 So he offered upon the altar he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, a date which he chose individually; and he appointed a feast for the Israelites and he went up to the altar to burn incense [in defiance of God's law.]" 
1Kings13:1 AND BEHOLD, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of the Lord to Bethel. Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense." 
1Kings13:2 The man cried against the altar by the word of the Lord, O altar, altar, thus says the Lord: Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by name; and on you shall he offer the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and men's bones shall be burned on you." 
1Kings13:3 And he gave a sign the same day, saying, This is the sign which the Lord has spoken: Behold, the altar shall be split and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out. [Fulfilled in II Kings 23:15, 16.]" 
1Kings13:4 When King Jeroboam heard the words the man of God cried against the altar in Bethel, he thrust out his hand, saying, Lay hold on him! And his hand which he put forth against him dried up, so that he could not draw it to him again." 
1Kings13:5 The altar also was split and the ashes poured out from the altar according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of the Lord. 
1Kings13:6 And the king said to the man of God, Entreat now the favor of the Lord your God and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me. And the man of God entreated the Lord, and the king's hand was restored and became as it was before." 
1Kings13:7 And the king said to the man of God, Come home with me and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward." 
1Kings13:8 And the man of God said to the king, If you give me half your house, I will not go in with you, and I will not eat bread or drink water in this place." 
1Kings13:9 For I was commanded by the word of the Lord, You shall eat no bread or drink water or return by the way you came." 
1Kings13:10 So he went another way and did not return by the way that he came to Bethel. 
1Kings13:11 Now there dwelt an old prophet in Bethel; and his sons came and told him all that the man of God had done that day in Bethel; the words which he had spoken to the king they told also to their father. 
1Kings13:12 Their father asked them, Which way did he go? For his sons had seen which way the man of God who came from Judah had gone." 
1Kings13:13 He said to his sons, Saddle the donkey for me. So they saddled the donkey and he rode on it" 
1Kings13:14 And went after the man of God. And he found him sitting under an oak, and he said to him, Are you the man of God who came from Judah? And he said, I am." 
1Kings13:15 Then he said to him, Come home with me and eat bread." 
1Kings13:16 He said, I may not return with you or go in with you, neither will I eat bread or drink water with you in this place." 
1Kings13:17 For I was told by the word of the Lord, You shall not eat bread or drink water there or return by the way that you came." 
1Kings13:18 He answered, I am a prophet also, as you are. And an angel spoke to me by the word of the Lord, saying, Bring him back with you to your house, that he may eat bread and drink water. But he lied to him." 
1Kings13:19 So the man from Judah went back with him and ate and drank water in his house. 
1Kings13:20 And as they sat at the table, the word of the Lord came to the prophet who brought him back." 
1Kings13:21 And he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, Thus says the Lord: Because you have disobeyed the word of the Lord and have not kept the command which the Lord your God commanded you," 
1Kings13:22 But have come back and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which the Lord said to you, Eat no bread and drink no water,your corpse shall not come to the tomb of your fathers." 
1Kings13:23 And after the prophet of the house had eaten bread and drunk, he saddled the donkey for the man he had brought back." 
1Kings13:24 And when he had gone, a lion met him by the road and slew him, and his corpse was cast in the way, and the donkey stood by it; the lion also stood by the corpse." 
1Kings13:25 And behold, men passed by and saw the corpse thrown in the road, and the lion standing by the corpse, and they came and told it in the city where the old prophet dwelt." 
1Kings13:26 When the prophet who brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, It is the man of God who was disobedient to the word of the Lord; therefore the Lord has given him to the lion, which has torn him and slain him, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke to him." 
1Kings13:27 And he said to his sons, Saddle the donkey for me. And they saddled it." 
1Kings13:28 And he went and found the corpse thrown in the road, and the donkey and the lion stood by the body; the lion had not eaten the corpse or torn the donkey." 
1Kings13:29 The prophet took up the corpse of the man of God and laid it upon the donkey and brought it back, and the old prophet came into the city to mourn and to bury him." 
1Kings13:30 And he laid the body in his own grave, and they mourned over him, saying, Alas, my brother!" 
1Kings13:31 After he had buried him, he said to his sons, When I am dead, bury me in the grave in which the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones." 
1Kings13:32 For the saying which he cried by the word of the Lord against the altar in Bethel and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria shall surely come to pass. 
1Kings13:33 After this thing, Jeroboam turned not from his evil way, but made priests for the high places again from among all the people. Whoever would, he consecrated, that there might be priests for the high places." 
1Kings13:34 And this thing became the sin of the dynasty of Jeroboam that caused it to be abolished and destroyed from the face of the earth. 
1Kings14:1 THEN ABIJAH [the little] son of Jeroboam became sick. 
1Kings14:2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray you, and disguise yourself, that you may not be recognized as Jeroboam's wife, and go to Shiloh. Behold, Ahijah the prophet is there, who told me that I should be king over this people." 
1Kings14:3 Take ten loaves, some cakes, and a bottle of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what shall happen to the child." 
1Kings14:4 Jeroboam's wife did so. She arose and went [twenty miles] to Shiloh and came to the house of Ahijah. Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were dim because of his age." 
1Kings14:5 And the Lord said to Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam is coming to ask you concerning her son, for he is sick. Thus and thus shall you say to her. When she came, she pretended to be another woman." 
1Kings14:6 But when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet as she came in at the door, he said, Come in, wife of Jeroboam. Why do you pretend to be another? For I am charged with heavy news for you." 
1Kings14:7 Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Because I exalted you from among the people and made you leader over My people Israel" 
1Kings14:8 And rent the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you,and yet you have not been as My servant David, who kept My commandments and followed Me with all his heart, to do only what was right in My eyes," 
1Kings14:9 But have done evil above all who were before you; for you have made yourself other gods, molten images, to provoke Me to anger and have cast Me behind your back," 
1Kings14:10 Therefore behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jeroboam and will cut off from [him] every male, both bond and free, in Israel, and will utterly sweep away the house of Jeroboam as a man sweeps away dung, till it is all gone." 
1Kings14:11 Anyone belonging to Jeroboam who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and any who dies in the field the birds of the heavens shall eat. For the Lord has spoken it." 
1Kings14:12 Arise therefore [Ano, Jeroboam's wife], get to your own house. When your feet enter the city, the child shall die." 
1Kings14:13 And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him; for he only of Jeroboam's family shall come to the grave, because in him there is found something good and pleasing to the Lord, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam." 
1Kings14:14 Moreover, the Lord will raise up for Himself a king over Israel who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam this day. From now on" 
1Kings14:15 The Lord will smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and He will root up Israel out of this good land which He gave to their fathers and will scatter them beyond the [Euphrates] River, because they have made their Asherim [idolatrous symbols of the goddess Asherah], provoking the Lord to anger." 
1Kings14:16 He will give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam which he has sinned and made Israel to sin. 
1Kings14:17 So Jeroboam's wife departed and came to Tirzah. When she came to the threshold of the house, the child died." 
1Kings14:18 And all Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to the word of the Lord spoken by His servant Ahijah the prophet." 
1Kings14:19 The rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
1Kings14:20 Jeroboam reigned for twenty-two years, and he slept with his fathers; and Nadab his son reigned in his stead." 
1Kings14:21 And Rehoboam son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city the Lord chose out of all the tribes of Israel to put His Name [and the pledge of His presence] there. His mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess." 
1Kings14:22 And Judah did evil in the sight of the Lord, Whom they provoked to jealousy with the sins they committed, above all that their fathers had done." 
1Kings14:23 For they also built themselves [idolatrous] high places, pillars, and Asherim [idolatrous symbols of the goddess Asherah] on every high hill and under every green tree." 
1Kings14:24 There were also sodomites (male cult prostitutes) in the land. They did all the abominations of the nations whom the Lord cast out before the Israelites. 
1Kings14:25 In the fifth year of King Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt [Jeroboam's brother-in-law] came up against Jerusalem." 
1Kings14:26 He took away the treasures of the house of the Lord and of the king's house; he took away all, including all the shields of gold which Solomon had made." 
1Kings14:27 King Rehoboam made in their stead bronze shields and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard who kept the door of the king's house. 
1Kings14:28 And as often as the king went into the house of the Lord, the guards bore them and brought them back into the guardroom." 
1Kings14:29 The rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
1Kings14:30 There was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 
1Kings14:31 Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with them in the City of David. His mother's name was Naamah the Ammonitess. Abijam (Abijah) his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings15:1 IN THE eighteenth year of King Jeroboam son of Nebat, Abijam began to reign over Judah." 
1Kings15:2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother was Maacah (Micaiah) daughter [granddaughter] of Abishalom (Absalom). 
1Kings15:3 He walked in all the sins of his father [Rehoboam] before him; and his heart was not blameless with the Lord his God, as the heart of David his father [forefather]." 
1Kings15:4 Nevertheless, for David's sake the Lord his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, setting up his son after him and establishing Jerusalem," 
1Kings15:5 Because David did what was right in the eyes of the Lord and turned not aside from anything that He commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite." 
1Kings15:6 There was war between [Abijam's father] Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of [Rehoboam's] life. 
1Kings15:7 The rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam." 
1Kings15:8 Abijam slept with his fathers and they buried him in the City of David. Asa his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings15:9 In the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa began to reign over Judah." 
1Kings15:10 Forty-one years he reigned in Jerusalem. His mother was [also named] Maacah (Micaiah) daughter of Abishalom (Absalom). [I Kings 15:2.] 
1Kings15:11 And Asa did right in the eyes of the Lord, as did David his father [forefather]." 
1Kings15:12 He put away the sodomites (male cult prostitutes) out of the land and removed all the idols that his fathers [Solomon, Rehoboam, and Abijam] had made or promoted. [I Kings 11:5-11; 14:22.]" 
1Kings15:13 Also Maacah his mother he removed from being queen mother, because she had an image made for [the goddess] Asherah. Asa destroyed her image, burning it by the brook Kidron." 
1Kings15:14 But the high places were not removed. Yet Asa's heart was blameless with the Lord all his days. 
1Kings15:15 He brought the things which his father had dedicated and the things which he himself had dedicated into the house of the Lord,silver, gold, and vessels." 
1Kings15:16 There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
1Kings15:17 Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and built up Ramah, that he might allow no one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah." 
1Kings15:18 Then Asa took all the silver and gold left in the treasuries of the house of the Lord and of the king's house and delivered them into the hands of his servants. And King Asa sent them to Ben-hadad son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, who dwelt at Damascus, saying," 
1Kings15:19 Let there be a league between me and you, as was between my father and your father. Behold, I am sending you a present of silver and gold; go, break your league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me." 
1Kings15:20 So Ben-hadad hearkened to king Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon, Dan, Abel-beth-maacah, and all Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali." 
1Kings15:21 When Baasha heard of it, he quit building up Ramah and dwelt in Tirzah." 
1Kings15:22 Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah,none was exempted. They carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building. And King Asa built up with them Geba of Benjamin, and also Mizpah." 
1Kings15:23 The rest of all the acts of Asa, all his might, all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet." 
1Kings15:24 Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with them in the city of David his father. Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings15:25 Nadab son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned two years." 
1Kings15:26 He did evil in the sight of the Lord and walked in the way of his father and in his sin, with which he made Israel sin." 
1Kings15:27 Baasha son of Ahijah of the house of Issachar conspired against Nadab, and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines, for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon." 
1Kings15:28 In the third year of Asa king of Judah Baasha slew Nadab and reigned in his stead. 
1Kings15:29 As soon as he was king, Baasha killed all the household of Jeroboam. He left to [it] not one who breathed, until he had destroyed it, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke by His servant Ahijah the Shilonite,[I Kings 14:9-16.]" 
1Kings15:30 Because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned and by which he made Israel to sin, and because of his provocation of the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger." 
1Kings15:31 The rest of Nadab's acts, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings15:32 There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
1Kings15:33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha son of Ahijah began his reign of twenty-four years over all Israel in Tirzah." 
1Kings15:34 He did evil in the sight of the Lord and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin, with which he made Israel sin." 
1Kings16:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to Jehu son of Hanani against Baasha, saying," 
1Kings16:2 Because I exalted you [Baasha] out of the dust and made you leader over My people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have made My people Israel sin, to provoke Me to anger with their sins," 
1Kings16:3 Behold, I will utterly sweep away Baasha and his house, and will make your house like [that] of Jeroboam son of Nebat." 
1Kings16:4 Any of Baasha's family who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and any who dies in the field the birds of the heavens shall eat." 
1Kings16:5 Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, what he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:6 Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried in Tirzah. Elah his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings16:7 Also the word of the Lord against Baasha and his house came through the prophet Jehu son of Hanani for all the evil that Baasha did in the sight of the Lord in provoking Him to anger with the work of his hands [idols], in being like the house of Jeroboam, and also because he destroyed it [the family of Jeroboam, of his own accord]." 
1Kings16:8 In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah son of Baasha began his reign of two years over Israel in Tirzah." 
1Kings16:9 Elah's servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against Elah. He was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household in Tirzah." 
1Kings16:10 Zimri came in and smote and killed him in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead." 
1Kings16:11 When he began to reign, as soon as he sat on his throne, he killed all the household of Baasha; he left not one male of his kinsmen or his friends." 
1Kings16:12 Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke against Baasha through Jehu the prophet, [I Kings 16:3.]" 
1Kings16:13 For all the sins of Baasha and of Elah his son by which they sinned and made Israel sin, in provoking the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger with their idols." 
1Kings16:14 The rest of the acts of Elah, and all he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:15 In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned for seven days in Tirzah. The troops were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines," 
1Kings16:16 And they heard the rumor, Zimri has conspired and slain the king! So all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp." 
1Kings16:17 So Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah." 
1Kings16:18 And when Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the stronghold of the king's house and burned the king's house over him with fire and died," 
1Kings16:19 Because of his sins committed in doing evil in the sight of the Lord, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and his sin in causing Israel to sin." 
1Kings16:20 The rest of the acts of Zimri, and his deeds of treason, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two factions. Half of the people followed Tibni son of Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri." 
1Kings16:22 But the people who followed Omri prevailed against those who followed Tibni son of Ginath. So Tibni died and Omri reigned. 
1Kings16:23 In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri began his reign of twelve years over Israel. He reigned six years in Tirzah." 
1Kings16:24 Omri bought the hill Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver. He built a city on the hill and fortified it, and called it Samaria (Shomeron), after the owner of the hill, Shemer." 
1Kings16:25 But Omri did evil in the eyes of the Lord, even worse than all who were before him." 
1Kings16:26 He walked in all the ways of Jeroboam son of Nebat and in his sin, by which he made Israel sin, to provoke the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger with their idols." 
1Kings16:27 The rest of the acts of Omri, and his might that he showed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings16:28 So Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria. Ahab his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings16:29 In the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, Ahab son of Omri began his reign of twenty-two years over Israel in Samaria." 
1Kings16:30 And Ahab son of Omri did evil in the sight of the Lord above all before him. 
1Kings16:31 As if it had been a light thing for Ahab to walk in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, he took for a wife Jezebel daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and served Baal and worshiped him." 
1Kings16:32 He erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal which he built in Samaria. 
1Kings16:33 And Ahab made an Asherah [idolatrous symbol of the goddess Asherah]. Ahab did more to provoke the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger than all the kings of Israel before him." 
1Kings16:34 In his days, Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho. He laid its foundations at the cost of the life of Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke through Joshua son of Nun. [Josh. 6:26.]" 
1Kings16:34 In his days, Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho. He laid its foundations at the cost of the life of Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke through Joshua son of Nun. [Josh. 6:26.]" 
1Kings17:1 ELIJAH THE Tishbite, of the temporary residents of Gilead, said to Ahab, As the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, before Whom I stand, there shall not be dew or rain these years but according to My word." 
1Kings17:2 And the word of the Lord came to him, saying," 
1Kings17:3 Go from here and turn east and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, east of the Jordan." 
1Kings17:4 You shall drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there." 
1Kings17:5 So he did according to the word of the Lord; he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, east of the Jordan." 
1Kings17:6 And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook." 
1Kings17:7 After a while the brook dried up because there was no rain in the land. 
1Kings17:8 And the word of the Lord came to him: 
1Kings17:9 Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to provide for you." 
1Kings17:10 So he arose and went to Zarephath. When he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks. He called to her, Bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink." 
1Kings17:11 As she was going to get it, he called to her and said, Bring me a morsel of bread in your hand." 
1Kings17:12 And she said, As the Lord your God lives, I have not a loaf baked but only a handful of meal in the jar and a little oil in the bottle. See, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and bake it for me and my son, that we may eat it,and die." 
1Kings17:13 Elijah said to her, Fear not; go and do as you have said. But make me a little cake of [it] first and bring it to me, and afterward prepare some for yourself and your son." 
1Kings17:14 For thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: The jar of meal shall not waste away or the bottle of oil fail until the day that the Lord sends rain on the earth." 
1Kings17:15 She did as Elijah said. And she and he and her household ate for many days. 
1Kings17:16 The jar of meal was not spent nor did the bottle of oil fail, according to the word which the Lord spoke through Elijah." 
1Kings17:17 After these things, the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became sick; and his sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him." 
1Kings17:18 And she said to Elijah, What have you against me, O man of God? Have you come to me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son?" 
1Kings17:19 He said to her, Give me your son. And he took him from her bosom and carried him up into the chamber where he stayed and laid him upon his own bed." 
1Kings17:20 And Elijah cried to the Lord and said, O Lord my God, have You brought further calamity upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her son?" 
1Kings17:21 And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to the Lord and said, O Lord my God, I pray You, let this child's soul come back into him." 
1Kings17:22 And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived." 
1Kings17:23 And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the [lower part of the] house and gave him to his mother; and Elijah said, See, your son is alive!" 
1Kings17:24 And the woman said to Elijah, By this I know that you are a man of God and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth." 
1Kings18:1 AFTER MANY days, the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth." 
1Kings18:2 So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria. 
1Kings18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah, who was the governor of his house. (Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly;" 
1Kings18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah, who was the governor of his house. (Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly;" 
1Kings18:4 For when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water.)" 
1Kings18:4 For when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water.)" 
1Kings18:5 And Ahab said to Obadiah, Go into the land to all the fountains of water and to all the brooks; perhaps we may find grass to keep the horses and mules alive, that we lose none of the beasts." 
1Kings18:5 And Ahab said to Obadiah, Go into the land to all the fountains of water and to all the brooks; perhaps we may find grass to keep the horses and mules alive, that we lose none of the beasts." 
1Kings18:6 So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went one way and Obadiah went another way, each by himself." 
1Kings18:6 So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went one way and Obadiah went another way, each by himself." 
1Kings18:7 As Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. He recognized him and fell on his face and said, Are you my lord Elijah?" 
1Kings18:7 As Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. He recognized him and fell on his face and said, Are you my lord Elijah?" 
1Kings18:8 He answered him, It is I. Go tell your lord, Behold, Elijah is here." 
1Kings18:9 And he said, What sin have I committed, that you would deliver your servant into the hands of Ahab to be slain?" 
1Kings18:10 As the Lord your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my lord has not sent to seek you. And when they said, He is not here, he took an oath from the kingdom or nation that they had not found you." 
1Kings18:11 And now you say, Go tell your lord, Behold, Elijah is here." 
1Kings18:12 And as soon as I have gone out from you, the Spirit of the Lord will carry you I know not where; so when I come and tell Ahab and he cannot find you, he will kill me. But I your servant have feared and revered the Lord from my youth." 
1Kings18:13 Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the prophets of the Lord, how I hid a hundred men of the Lord's prophets by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water?" 
1Kings18:14 And now you say, Go tell your lord, Behold, Elijah is here; and he will kill me." 
1Kings18:15 Elijah said, As the Lord of hosts lives, before Whom I stand, I will surely show myself to Ahab today." 
1Kings18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah." 
1Kings18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah." 
1Kings18:17 When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, Are you he who troubles Israel?" 
1Kings18:18 Elijah replied, I have not troubled Israel, but you have, and your father's house, by forsaking the commandments of the Lord and by following the Baals." 
1Kings18:19 Therefore send and gather to me all Israel at Mount Carmel, and the 450 prophets of Baal and the 400 prophets of [the goddess] Asherah, who eat at [Queen] Jezebel's table." 
1Kings18:20 So Ahab sent to all the Israelites and assembled the prophets at Mount Carmel. 
1Kings18:21 Elijah came near to all the people and said, How long will you halt and limp between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow Him! But if Baal, then follow him. And the people did not answer him a word." 
1Kings18:22 Then Elijah said to the people, I, I only, remain a prophet of the Lord, but Baal's prophets are 450 men." 
1Kings18:23 Let two bulls be given us; let them choose one bull for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it on the wood but put no fire to it. I will dress the other bull, lay it on the wood, and put no fire to it." 
1Kings18:24 Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the Lord; and the One Who answers by fire, let Him be God. And all the people answered, It is well spoken." 
1Kings18:25 Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, Choose one bull for yourselves and dress it first, for you are many; and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under it." 
1Kings18:26 So they took the bull given them, dressed it, and called on the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, O Baal, hear and answer us! But there was no voice; no one answered. And they leaped upon or limped about the altar they had made." 
1Kings18:27 At noon Elijah mocked them, saying, Cry aloud, for he is a god; either he is musing, or he has gone aside, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened." 
1Kings18:28 And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their custom with knives and lances until the blood gushed out upon them. 
1Kings18:29 Midday passed, and they played the part of prophets until the time for offering the evening sacrifice, but there was no voice, no answer, no one who paid attention." 
1Kings18:30 Then Elijah said to all the people, Come near to me. And all the people came near him. And he repaired the [old] altar of the Lord that had been broken down [by Jezebel]. [I Kings 18:13; 19:10.]" 
1Kings18:31 Then Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the Lord came, saying, Israel shall be your name. [Gen. 32:28.]" 
1Kings18:32 And with the stones Elijah built an altar in the name [and self-revelation] of the Lord. He made a trench about the altar as great as would contain two measures of seed. 
1Kings18:33 He put the wood in order and cut the bull in pieces and laid it on the wood and said, Fill four jars with water and pour it on the burnt offering and the wood." 
1Kings18:34 And he said, Do it the second time. And they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time. And they did it the third time." 
1Kings18:35 The water ran round about the altar, and he filled the trench also with water." 
1Kings18:36 At the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet came near and said, O Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that You are God in Israel and that I am Your servant and that I have done all these things at Your word." 
1Kings18:37 Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that You, the Lord, are God, and have turned their hearts back [to You]." 
1Kings18:38 Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust, and also licked up the water that was in the trench." 
1Kings18:39 When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, The Lord, He is God! The Lord, He is God!" 
1Kings18:40 And Elijah said, Seize the prophets of Baal; let not one escape. They seized them, and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and [as God's law required] slew them there. [Deut. 13:5; 18:20.]" 
1Kings18:41 And Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink, for there is the sound of abundance of rain." 
1Kings18:42 So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he bowed himself down upon the earth and put his face between his knees 
1Kings18:43 And said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. And he went up and looked and said, There is nothing. Elijah said, Go again seven times." 
1Kings18:44 And at the seventh time the servant said, A cloud as small as a man's hand is arising out of the sea. And Elijah said, Go up, say to Ahab, Hitch your chariot and go down, lest the rain stop you." 
1Kings18:45 In a little while, the heavens were black with wind-swept clouds, and there was a great rain. And Ahab went to Jezreel." 
1Kings18:46 The hand of the Lord was on Elijah. He girded up his loins and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel [nearly twenty miles]. 
1Kings19:1 AHAB TOLD Jezebel all that Elijah had done and how he had slain all the prophets [of Baal] with the sword. 
1Kings19:2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not your life as the life of one of them by this time tomorrow." 
1Kings19:3 Then he was afraid and arose and went for his life and came to Beersheba of Judah [over eighty miles, and out of Jezebel's realm] and left his servant there." 
1Kings19:4 But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a lone broom or juniper tree and asked that he might die. He said, It is enough; now, O Lord, take away my life; for I am no better than my fathers." 
1Kings19:5 As he lay asleep under the broom or juniper tree, behold, an angel touched him and said to him, Arise and eat." 
1Kings19:6 He looked, and behold, there was a cake baked on the coals, and a bottle of water at his head. And he ate and drank and lay down again." 
1Kings19:7 The angel of the Lord came the second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat, for the journey is too great for you." 
1Kings19:8 So he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and nights to Horeb, the mount of God." 
1Kings19:9 There he came to a cave and lodged in it; and behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and He said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah?" 
1Kings19:10 He replied, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts; for the Israelites have forsaken Your covenant, thrown down Your altars, and killed Your prophets with the sword. And I, I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away." 
1Kings19:11 And He said, Go out and stand on the mount before the Lord. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains and broke in pieces the rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake;" 
1Kings19:12 And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire; and after the fire [a sound of gentle stillness and] a still, small voice." 
1Kings19:13 When Elijah heard the voice, he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. And behold, there came a voice to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah?" 
1Kings19:14 He said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, because the Israelites have forsaken Your covenant, thrown down Your altars, and slain Your prophets with the sword. And I, I only, am left, and they seek my life, to destroy it." 
1Kings19:15 And the Lord said to him, Go, return on your way to the Wilderness of Damascus; and when you arrive, anoint Hazael to be king over Syria." 
1Kings19:16 And anoint Jehu son of Nimshi to be king over Israel, and anoint Elisha son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah to be prophet in your place." 
1Kings19:17 And him who escapes from the sword of Hazael Jehu shall slay, and him who escapes the sword of Jehu Elisha shall slay." 
1Kings19:18 Yet I will leave Myself 7,000 in Israel, all the knees that have not bowed to Baal and every mouth that has not kissed him." 
1Kings19:19 So Elijah left there and found Elisha son of Shaphat, whose plowing was being done with twelve yoke of oxen, and he drove the twelfth. Elijah crossed over to him and cast his mantle upon him." 
1Kings19:20 He left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me kiss my father and mother, and then I will follow you. And he [testing Elisha] said, Go on back. What have I done to you? [Settle it for yourself.]" 
1Kings19:21 So Elisha went back from him. Then he took a yoke of oxen, slew them, boiled their flesh with the oxen's yoke [as fuel], and gave to the people, and they ate. Then he arose, followed Elijah, and served him. [II Kings 3:11.]" 
1Kings20:1 BEN-HADAD KING of Syria gathered all his army together; thirty-two kings were with him, and horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged Samaria, warring against it." 
1Kings20:2 He sent messengers into Samaria to Ahab king of Israel and said to him, Thus says Ben-hadad:" 
1Kings20:3 Your silver and your gold are mine; your wives and your children, even the fairest, also are mine." 
1Kings20:4 And the king of Israel answered and said, My lord, O king, according to what you say, I am yours, and all that I have." 
1Kings20:5 The messengers came again and said, Thus says Ben-hadad: Although I have sent to you, saying, You shall deliver to me your silver, your gold, your wives, and your children," 
1Kings20:6 Yet I will send my servants to you tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house and the houses of your servants; and all the desire of your eyes they shall lay hands upon and take it away." 
1Kings20:7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land and said, Notice now and see how this man is seeking our destruction. He sent to me for my wives, my children, my silver, and my gold, and I did not refuse him." 
1Kings20:8 And all the elders and all the people said to him, Do not heed him or consent." 
1Kings20:9 So he said to Ben-hadad's messengers, Tell my lord the king, All you first sent for to your servant I will do, but this thing I cannot do. And the messengers left; then they brought him word again." 
1Kings20:10 Ben-hadad sent to him and said, May the gods do so to me, and more also, if the rubbish of Samaria shall be enough for each one of all the people who are at my feet and follow me to get a handful." 
1Kings20:11 The king of Israel answered, Tell him: Let not him who girds on his harness boast as he who puts it off." 
1Kings20:12 When Ben-hadad heard this message as he and the kings were drinking in the booths, he said to his servants, Set the army in array. And they set themselves in array against [Samaria]." 
1Kings20:13 Then a prophet came to Ahab king of Israel and said, Thus says the Lord: Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will deliver it into your hand today, and you shall know and realize that I am the Lord." 
1Kings20:14 Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus says the Lord: By the young men [the attendants or bodyguards] of the governors of the districts. Then Ahab said, Who shall order the battle? And he answered, You." 
1Kings20:15 Ahab numbered the attendants of the governors of the districts, and they were 232. After them he numbered all the people of [the army of] Israel, 7,000. [I Kings 19:18.]" 
1Kings20:16 And they went out at noon. But Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the booths, he and the thirty-two kings who helped him." 
1Kings20:17 The servants of the governors of the districts went out first; and Ben-hadad sent out, and they told him, saying, There are men come out of Samaria." 
1Kings20:18 And he said, Whether they have come out for peace or for war, take them alive." 
1Kings20:19 So these [strong young guards] of the governors of the districts went out of [Samaria], and the army followed them." 
1Kings20:20 And each one killed his man; the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them. Ben-hadad king of Syria escaped on a horse with the horsemen." 
1Kings20:21 The king of Israel went out and smote [the riders of] the horses and chariots and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter. 
1Kings20:22 The prophet came to the king of Israel and said to him, Go, fortify yourself and become strong and give attention to what you must do, for at the first of next year the king of Syria will return against you." 
1Kings20:23 And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, Israel's gods are gods of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we. But let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they." 
1Kings20:24 And do this thing: Remove the kings, each from his place, and put governors in their stead." 
1Kings20:25 And muster yourself an army like the army you have lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot. And we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they. And he heeded their speech and did so." 
1Kings20:26 And at the return of the year, Ben-hadad mustered the Syrians and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel." 
1Kings20:27 The Israelites were counted and, all present, went against them. The Israelites encamped before the enemy like two little flocks of lost kids [absolutely everything against them but Almighty God], but the Syrians filled the country." 
1Kings20:28 A man of God came and said to the king of Israel, Thus says the Lord: Because the Syrians have said, The Lord is God of the hills but He is not God of the valleys, therefore I will deliver all this great multitude into your hands, and you shall know and recognize by experience that I am the Lord. [Phil. 4:13.]" 
1Kings20:29 They encamped opposite each other seven days. Then the battle was joined; and the Israelites slew of the Syrians 100,000 foot soldiers in one day." 
1Kings20:30 But the rest fled to the city of Aphek, and the wall fell upon 27,000 men who were left. Ben-hadad fled into the city and from chamber to chamber." 
1Kings20:31 His servants said to him, We have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Let us put sackcloth on our loins and ropes about our necks, and go out to the king of Israel; perhaps he will spare your life." 
1Kings20:32 So they girded sackcloth on their loins and put ropes on their necks, and came to the king of Israel and said, Your servant Ben-hadad says, I pray you, let me live. And King [Ahab] said, Is he yet alive? He is my brother." 
1Kings20:33 Now the men took it as an omen and they hastily took it up and said, Yes, your brother Ben-hadad. Then the king said, Go, bring him. Then Ben-hadad came forth to him, and the victorious king caused him to come up into the chariot." 
1Kings20:34 Ben-hadad [tempting him] said, The cities which my father took from your father I will restore; and you may maintain bazaars of your own in Damascus, as my father did in Samaria. Then, said Ahab, I will send you away on these terms. So he made a covenant with him and sent him away." 
1Kings20:35 And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said to his neighbor, At the command of the Lord, strike me, I pray you. And the man refused to strike him." 
1Kings20:36 Then said he to him, Because you have not obeyed the voice of the Lord, behold, as soon as you have left me a lion will slay you. And as soon as he departed from him, a lion found him and killed him." 
1Kings20:37 Then [the prophet] found another man and said, Strike me, I pray you. And the man struck him, so that in striking, he wounded him." 
1Kings20:38 So the prophet departed and waited for King Ahab by the way, and disguised himself with ashes upon his face." 
1Kings20:39 And as the king passed by, the [prophet] cried out to him, Your servant went out into the midst of the battle, and behold, a man turned aside and brought a man to me and said, Keep this man. If for any reason he is missing, then your life shall be required for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver." 
1Kings20:40 But while your servant was busy here and there, he was gone. And the king of Israel said to him, Such is your own verdict; you yourself have decided it." 
1Kings20:41 The man hastily removed the ashes from his face, and Ahab king of Israel recognized him as one of the prophets." 
1Kings20:42 And he said to the king, Thus says the Lord: Because you have let go out of your hand the man I had devoted to destruction, therefore your life shall go for his life, and your people for his people." 
1Kings20:43 And King [Ahab] of Israel went to his house resentful and sullen, and came to Samaria. [I Kings 22:34-36.]" 
1Kings21:1 NOW NABOTH the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel, close beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria; and after these things," 
1Kings21:2 Ahab said to Naboth, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near my house. I will give you a better vineyard for it or, if you prefer, I will give you its worth in money." 
1Kings21:3 Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you." 
1Kings21:4 And Ahab [already depressed by the Lord's message to him] came into his house [more] resentful and sullen because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him; for he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed, turned away his face, and would eat no food." 
1Kings21:5 But Jezebel his wife came and said to him, Why is your spirit so troubled that you eat no food?" 
1Kings21:6 And he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money; or if you prefer, I will give you another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give you my vineyard." 
1Kings21:7 Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you not govern Israel? Arise, eat food, and let your heart be happy. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite." 
1Kings21:8 So she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal and sent them to the elders and nobles who dwelt with Naboth in his city. 
1Kings21:9 And in the letters she said, Proclaim a fast and set Naboth up high among the people." 
1Kings21:10 And set two men, base fellows, before him, and let them bear witness against him, saying, You cursed and renounced God and the king. Then carry him out and stone him to death." 
1Kings21:11 And the men of his city, the elders and the nobles who dwelt there, did as Jezebel had directed in the letters sent them." 
1Kings21:12 They proclaimed a fast and set Naboth on high among the people. 
1Kings21:13 Two base fellows came in and sat opposite him and they charged Naboth before the people, saying, Naboth cursed and renounced God and the king. Then he was carried out of the city and stoned to death." 
1Kings21:14 Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth has been stoned and is dead." 
1Kings21:15 Then Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite which he refused to sell you, for Naboth is not alive, but dead." 
1Kings21:16 When Ahab heard that, he arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it." 
1Kings21:17 Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying," 
1Kings21:18 Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel in Samaria. He is in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone to possess it." 
1Kings21:19 Say to him, Thus says the Lord: Have you killed and also taken possession? Thus says the Lord: In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick your blood, even yours." 
1Kings21:20 And Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? And he answered, I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord." 
1Kings21:21 See [says the Lord], I will bring evil on you and utterly sweep away and cut off from Ahab every male, bond and free," 
1Kings21:22 And will make your household like that of Jeroboam son of Nebat and like the household of Baasha son of Ahijah, for the provocation with which you have provoked Me to anger and made Israel to sin." 
1Kings21:23 Also the Lord said of Jezebel: The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel. 
1Kings21:24 Any belonging to Ahab who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and any who dies in the field the birds of the air shall eat. [I Kings 14:11; 16:4.]" 
1Kings21:25 For there was no one who sold himself to do evil in the sight of the Lord as did Ahab, incited by his wife Jezebel." 
1Kings21:26 He did very abominably in going after idols, as had the Amorites, whom the Lord cast out before the Israelites." 
1Kings21:27 When Ahab heard those words of Elijah, he tore his clothes, put sackcloth on his flesh, fasted, lay in sackcloth, and went quietly." 
1Kings21:28 And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying," 
1Kings21:29 Do you see how Ahab humbles himself before Me? Because he humbles himself before Me, I will not bring the evil in his lifetime, but in his son's day I will bring the evil upon his house." 
1Kings22:1 SYRIA AND Israel continued without war for three years. 
1Kings22:2 In the third year Jehoshaphat king of Judah came down to the king of Israel. 
1Kings22:3 And [Ahab] king of Israel said to his servants, Do you know that Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we keep silence and do not take it from the king of Syria?" 
1Kings22:4 And [Ahab] said to Jehoshaphat, Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead to battle? Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses." 
1Kings22:5 But Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Inquire first, I pray you, for the word of the Lord today." 
1Kings22:6 Then [Ahab] king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about 400 men, and said to them, Shall I go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I hold back? And they said, Go up, for the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king." 
1Kings22:7 Jehoshaphat said, Is there not another prophet of the Lord here whom we may ask?" 
1Kings22:8 [Ahab] king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Micaiah son of Imlah, by whom we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him, for he never prophesies good for me, but evil. Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say that." 
1Kings22:9 Then [Ahab] king of Israel told an officer, Bring quickly Micaiah son of Imlah." 
1Kings22:10 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah were sitting in [royal] robes [or armor], each on his throne in an open place [on a threshing floor] at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied before them." 
1Kings22:11 And Zedekiah son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron and said, Thus says the Lord: With these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed." 
1Kings22:12 And all the prophets agreed, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead and prosper, for the Lord will deliver it into the king's hand." 
1Kings22:13 The messenger who went to call Micaiah said to him, Behold now, the prophets unanimously declare good to the king. Let your answer, I pray you, be like theirs, and say what is good." 
1Kings22:14 But Micaiah said, As the Lord lives, I will speak what the Lord says to me." 
1Kings22:15 So he came to the king. King [Ahab] said, Micaiah, shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we hold back? And he answered, Go and prosper, for the Lord will deliver it into the king's hand." 
1Kings22:16 And the king said to him, How many times must I charge you to tell me nothing but the truth in the name of the Lord?" 
1Kings22:17 And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills as sheep that have no shepherd, and the Lord said, These have no master. Let them return every man to his house in peace." 
1Kings22:18 Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil?" 
1Kings22:19 And Micaiah said, Hear the word of the Lord: I saw the Lord sitting on His throne, and all the host of heaven standing by Him on His right hand and on His left." 
1Kings22:20 And the Lord said, Who will entice Ahab to go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? One said this way, another said that way." 
1Kings22:21 Then there came forth a spirit [of whom I am about to tell] and stood before the Lord and said, I will entice him." 
1Kings22:22 The Lord said to him, By what means? And he said, I will go forth and be a lying spirit in the mouths of all his prophets. [The Lord] said, You shall entice him and succeed also. Go forth and do it." 
1Kings22:23 So the Lord has put a lying spirit in the mouths of all these prophets; and the Lord has spoken evil concerning you. 
1Kings22:24 But Zedekiah son of Chenaanah went near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, Which way went the Spirit of the Lord from me to speak to you?" 
1Kings22:25 Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself." 
1Kings22:26 [Ahab] king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, carry him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son," 
1Kings22:27 And say, The king says, Put this fellow in prison and feed him with bread and water of affliction until I come in peace." 
1Kings22:28 Micaiah said, If you return at all in peace, the Lord has not spoken by me. He [added], Hear, O people, every one of you!" 
1Kings22:29 So [Ahab] king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead. 
1Kings22:30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and enter the battle, but you put on your [royal] clothing. And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle." 
1Kings22:31 But the king of Syria had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, Fight neither with small nor great, but only with [Ahab] king of Israel." 
1Kings22:32 And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. They turned to fight against him, but Jehoshaphat cried out." 
1Kings22:33 And when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him." 
1Kings22:34 But a certain man drew a bow at a venture and smote [Ahab] the king of Israel between the joints of the armor. So he said to the driver of his chariot, Turn around and carry me out of the army, for I am wounded." 
1Kings22:35 The battle increased that day, and [Ahab] the king was propped up in his chariot facing the Syrians, and at nightfall he died. And the blood of his wound flowed onto the floor of the chariot." 
1Kings22:36 And there went a cry throughout the army about sundown, saying, Every man to his city and his own country," 
1Kings22:37 For the king is dead! And [Ahab] was brought to Samaria, where they buried him." 
1Kings22:38 And they washed [his] chariot by the pool of Samaria, where the harlots bathed, and the dogs licked up his blood, as the Lord had predicted. [I Kings 21:19.]" 
1Kings22:39 The rest of Ahab's acts, all he did, the ivory palace and all the cities he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
1Kings22:40 So Ahab slept with his fathers. Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings22:41 Jehoshaphat son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 
1Kings22:42 Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother was Azubah daughter of Shilhi." 
1Kings22:43 He walked in all the ways or customs of Asa his father, never swerving from it, doing right in the sight of the Lord. However, the [idolatrous] high places were not taken away; for the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places." 
1Kings22:44 And Jehoshaphat made peace with Israel's king. 
1Kings22:45 The rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, his might that he showed and how he warred, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
1Kings22:46 And the remnant of the sodomites (the male cult prostitutes) who remained in the days of his father Asa, [Jehoshaphat] expelled from the country." 
1Kings22:47 There was no king in Edom; a deputy was acting king. 
1Kings22:48 Jehoshaphat ordered ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go, for the ships were wrecked at Ezion-geber." 
1Kings22:49 When Ahaziah son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with your servants in the ships, Jehoshaphat refused." 
1Kings22:50 Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with them in the city of David his father [forefather]. And Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. 
1Kings22:51 Ahaziah son of Ahab began his two-year reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah. 
1Kings22:52 He did evil in the sight of the Lord and walked in the ways of his father [Ahab] and of his mother [Jezebel] and of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who made Israel sin." 
1Kings22:53 He served Baal and worshiped him and provoked the Lord, the God of Israel, to anger in all the ways his father had done." 
2Kings1:1 MOAB REBELLED against Israel after the death of Ahab. 
2Kings1:2 [King] Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber in Samaria and lay sick. He sent messengers, saying, Go, ask Baal-zebub, the god of [Philistine] Ekron, if I shall recover from this illness." 
2Kings1:3 But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king in Samaria and say to them, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?" 
2Kings1:4 Therefore the Lord says: You [Ahaziah] shall not leave the bed on which you lie, but shall surely die. And Elijah departed." 
2Kings1:5 When the messengers returned to Ahaziah, he said, Why have you turned back?" 
2Kings1:6 They replied, A man came up to meet us who said, Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, Thus says the Lord: Is there no God in Israel that you send to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not leave the bed on which you lie, but shall surely die." 
2Kings1:7 The king asked, What was the man like who came to meet you saying these things?" 
2Kings1:8 They answered, He was a hairy man with a girdle of leather about his loins. And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite." 
2Kings1:9 Then the king sent to Elijah a captain of fifty men with his fifty [to seize him]. He found Elijah sitting on a hilltop and said, Man of God, the king says, Come down." 
2Kings1:10 Elijah said to the captain of fifty, If I am a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. And fire fell from heaven and consumed him and his fifty." 
2Kings1:11 Again King [Ahaziah] sent to him another captain of fifty with his fifty. And he said to Elijah, Man of God, the king has said, Come down quickly!" 
2Kings1:12 And Elijah answered, If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. And the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty." 
2Kings1:13 Ahaziah sent again a captain of a third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up and fell on his knees before Elijah and besought him and said to him, O man of God, I pray you, let my life and the lives of these fifty, your servants, be precious in your sight." 
2Kings1:14 Behold, fire came down from heaven and burned up the two captains of the former fifties with their fifties. Therefore let my life now be precious in your sight." 
2Kings1:15 The angel of the Lord said to Elijah, Go down with him; do not be afraid of him. So he arose and went with him to the king." 
2Kings1:16 Elijah said to [King] Ahaziah, Thus says the Lord: Since you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub, god of Ekron, is it because there is no God in Israel of Whom to inquire His word? Therefore you shall not leave the bed on which you lie, but shall surely die." 
2Kings1:17 So Ahaziah died according to the word of the Lord which Elijah had spoken. Joram [also a son of Ahab] reigned in Israel in his stead in the second year of Jehoram son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son [but his brother]." 
2Kings1:18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings2:1 WHEN THE Lord was about to take Elijah up to heaven by a whirlwind, Elijah and Elisha were going from Gilgal." 
2Kings2:2 And Elijah said to Elisha, Tarry here, I pray you, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. But Elisha replied, As the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they went down to Bethel." 
2Kings2:3 The prophets' sons who were at Bethel came to Elisha and said, Do you know that the Lord will take your master away from you today? He said, Yes, I know it; hold your peace." 
2Kings2:4 Elijah said to him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray you, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. But he said, As the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. So they came to Jericho." 
2Kings2:5 The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho came to Elisha and said, Do you know that the Lord will take your master away from you today? And he answered, Yes, I know it; hold your peace." 
2Kings2:6 Elijah said to him, Tarry here, I pray you, for the Lord has sent me to the Jordan. But he said, As the Lord lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you. And the two of them went on." 
2Kings2:7 Fifty men of the sons of the prophets also went and stood [to watch] afar off; and the two of them stood by the Jordan. 
2Kings2:8 And Elijah took his mantle and rolled it up and struck the waters, and they divided this way and that, so that the two of them went over on dry ground." 
2Kings2:9 And when they had gone over, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken from you. And Elisha said, I pray you, let a double portion of your spirit be upon me." 
2Kings2:10 He said, You have asked a hard thing. However, if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall be so for you,but if not, it shall not be so." 
2Kings2:11 As they still went on and talked, behold, a chariot of fire and horses of fire parted the two of them, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven." 
2Kings2:12 And Elisha saw it and he cried, My father, my father! The chariot of Israel and its horsemen! And he saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two pieces." 
2Kings2:13 He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and went back and stood by the bank of the Jordan. 
2Kings2:14 And he took the mantle that fell from Elijah and struck the waters and said, Where is the Lord, the God of Elijah? And when he had struck the waters, they parted this way and that, and Elisha went over." 
2Kings2:15 When the sons of the prophets who were [watching] at Jericho saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha. And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him." 
2Kings2:16 And they said to him, Behold now, there are among your servants fifty strong men; let them go, we pray you, and seek your master. It may be that the Spirit of the Lord has taken him up and cast him on some mountain or into some valley. And he said, You shall not send." 
2Kings2:17 But when they urged him till he was embarrassed, he said, Send. So they sent fifty men, who sought for three days but did not find him." 
2Kings2:18 When they returned to Elisha, who had waited at Jericho, he said to them, Did I not tell you, Do not go?" 
2Kings2:19 And the men of the city said to Elisha, Behold, inhabiting of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees, but the water is bad and the locality causes miscarriage and barrenness [in all animals]." 
2Kings2:20 He said, Bring me a new bowl and put salt [the symbol of God's purifying power] in it. And they brought it to him." 
2Kings2:21 Then Elisha went to the spring of the waters and cast the salt in it and said, Thus says the Lord: I [not the salt] have healed these waters; there shall not be any more death, miscarriage or barrenness [and bereavement] because of it." 
2Kings2:22 So the waters were healed to this day, as Elisha had said." 
2Kings2:23 He went up from Jericho to Bethel. On the way, young [maturing and accountable] boys came out of the city and mocked him and said to him, Go up [in a whirlwind], you baldhead! Go up, you baldhead!" 
2Kings2:24 And he turned around and looked at them and called a curse down on them in the name of the Lord. And two she-bears came out of the woods and ripped up forty-two of the boys. 
2Kings2:25 Elisha went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria." 
2Kings3:1 JORAM SON of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve years." 
2Kings3:2 He did evil in the sight of the Lord, but not like his father and mother; for he put away the pillar of Baal that his father had made." 
2Kings3:3 Yet he clung to the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which made Israel to sin; he departed not from them." 
2Kings3:4 Mesha king of Moab was a sheepmaster, and paid in tribute to the king of Israel [annually] 100,000 lambs and 100,000 rams, with the wool." 
2Kings3:5 But when Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel." 
2Kings3:6 So King Joram went out of Samaria at that time and mustered all Israel. 
2Kings3:7 And he sent to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, saying, The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to war against Moab? And he said, I will go; I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses." 
2Kings3:8 Joram said, Which way shall we go up? Jehoshaphat answered, The way through the Wilderness of Edom." 
2Kings3:9 So the king of Israel went with the king of Judah and the king of Edom. They made a circuit of seven days' journey, but there was no water for the army or for the animals following them." 
2Kings3:10 Then the king of Israel said, Alas! The Lord has called [us] three kings together to be delivered into Moab's hand!" 
2Kings3:11 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there no prophet of the Lord here by whom we may inquire of the Lord? One of the king of Israel's servants answered, Elisha son of Shaphat, who served Elijah, is here." 
2Kings3:12 Jehoshaphat said, The word of the Lord is with him. So Joram king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to Elisha." 
2Kings3:13 And Elisha said to the king of Israel, What have I to do with you? Go to the prophets of your [wicked] father Ahab and your [wicked] mother Jezebel. But the king of Israel said to him, No, for the Lord has called [us] three kings together to be delivered into the hand of Moab." 
2Kings3:14 And Elisha said, As the Lord of hosts lives, before Whom I stand, surely, were it not that I respect the presence of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, I would neither look at you nor see you [King Joram]." 
2Kings3:15 But now bring me a minstrel. And while the minstrel played, the hand and power of the Lord came upon [Elisha]." 
2Kings3:16 And he said, Thus says the Lord: Make this [dry] brook bed full of trenches." 
2Kings3:17 For thus says the Lord: You shall not see wind or rain, yet that ravine shall be filled with water, so you, your cattle, and your beasts [of burden] may drink." 
2Kings3:18 This is but a light thing in the sight of the Lord. He will deliver the Moabites also into your hands. 
2Kings3:19 You shall smite every fenced city and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree and stop all wells of water and mar every good piece of land with stones." 
2Kings3:20 In the morning, when the sacrifice was offered, behold, there came water by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water." 
2Kings3:21 When all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, all who were able to put on armor, young and old, gathered and drew up at the border." 
2Kings3:22 When they rose up early next morning, and the sun shone upon the water, the Moabites saw the water across from them as red as blood." 
2Kings3:23 And they said, This is blood; the kings have surely been fighting and have slain one another. Now then, Moab, to the spoil!" 
2Kings3:24 But when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and smote the Moabites, so that they fled before them. And they went forward, slaying the Moabites as they went." 
2Kings3:25 They beat down the cities [walls], and on every good piece of land every man cast a stone, covering it [with stones]. And they stopped all the springs of water and felled all the good trees, until only the stones [of the walls of Moab's capital city] of Kir-hareseth were left standing, and the slingers surrounded and took it." 
2Kings3:26 And when the king of Moab saw that the battle was against him, he took with him 700 swordsmen to break through to the king of Edom, but they could not." 
2Kings3:27 Then he [Moab's king] took his eldest son, who was to reign in his stead, and offered him for a burnt offering on the wall [in full view of the horrified enemy kings]. And there was great indignation, wrath, and bitterness against Israel; and they [his allies Judah and Edom] withdrew from [Joram] and returned to their own land." 
2Kings4:1 NOW THE wife of a son of the prophets cried to Elisha, Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared the Lord. But the creditor has come to take my two sons to be his slaves." 
2Kings4:2 Elisha said to her, What shall I do for you? Tell me, what have you [of sale value] in the house? She said, Your handmaid has nothing in the house except a jar of oil." 
2Kings4:3 Then he said, Go around and borrow vessels from all your neighbors, empty vessels,and not a few." 
2Kings4:4 And when you come in, shut the door upon you and your sons. Then pour out [the oil you have] into all those vessels, setting aside each one when it is full." 
2Kings4:5 So she went from him and shut the door upon herself and her sons, who brought to her the vessels as she poured the oil." 
2Kings4:6 When the vessels were all full, she said to her son, Bring me another vessel. And he said to her, There is not a one left. Then the oil stopped multiplying." 
2Kings4:7 Then she came and told the man of God. He said, Go, sell the oil and pay your debt, and you and your sons live on the rest." 
2Kings4:8 One day Elisha went on to Shunem, where a rich and influential woman lived, who insisted on his eating a meal. Afterward, whenever he passed by, he stopped there for a meal." 
2Kings4:9 And she said to her husband, Behold now, I perceive that this is a holy man of God who passes by continually." 
2Kings4:10 Let us make a small chamber on the [housetop] and put there for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp. Then whenever he comes to us, he can go [up the outside stairs and rest] here." 
2Kings4:11 One day he came and turned into the chamber and lay there. 
2Kings4:12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. When he had called her, she stood before him." 
2Kings4:13 And he said to Gehazi, Say now to her, You have been most painstakingly and reverently concerned for us; what is to be done for you? Would you like to be spoken for to the king or to the commander of the army? She answered, I dwell among my own people [they are sufficient]." 
2Kings4:14 Later Elisha said, What then is to be done for her? Gehazi answered, She has no child and her husband is old." 
2Kings4:15 He said, Call her. [Gehazi] called her, and she stood in the doorway." 
2Kings4:16 Elisha said, At this season when the time comes round, you shall embrace a son. She said, No, my lord, you man of God, do not lie to your handmaid." 
2Kings4:17 But the woman conceived and bore a son at that season the following year, as Elisha had said to her." 
2Kings4:18 When the child had grown, he went out one day to his father with the reapers." 
2Kings4:19 But he said to his father, My head, my head! The man said to his servant, Carry him to his mother." 
2Kings4:20 And when he was brought to his mother, he sat on her knees till noon, and then died." 
2Kings4:21 And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door upon him and went out." 
2Kings4:22 And she called to her husband and said, Send me one of the servants and one of the donkeys, that I may go quickly to the man of God and come back again." 
2Kings4:23 And he said, Why go to him today? It is neither the New Moon nor the Sabbath. And she said, It will be all right." 
2Kings4:24 Then she saddled the donkey and said to her servant, Ride fast; do not slacken your pace for me unless I tell you." 
2Kings4:25 So she set out and came to the man of God at Mount Carmel. When the man of God saw her afar off, he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite." 
2Kings4:26 Run to meet her and say, Is it well with you? Well with your husband? Well with the child? And she answered, It is well." 
2Kings4:27 When she came to the mountain to the man of God, she clung to his feet. Gehazi came to thrust her away, but the man of God said, Let her alone, for her soul is bitter and vexed within her, and the Lord has hid it from me and has not told me." 
2Kings4:28 Then she said, Did I desire a son of my lord? Did I not say, Do not deceive me?" 
2Kings4:29 Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up your loins and take my staff in your hand and go lay my staff on the face of the child. If you meet any man, do not salute him. If he salutes you, do not answer him." 
2Kings4:30 The mother of the child said, As the Lord lives and as my soul lives, I will not leave you. And he arose and followed her." 
2Kings4:31 Gehazi passed on before them and laid the staff on the child's face, but the boy neither spoke nor heard. So he went back to meet Elisha and said to him, The child has not awakened." 
2Kings4:32 When Elisha arrived in the house, the child was dead and laid upon his bed." 
2Kings4:33 So he went in, shut the door on the two of them, and prayed to the Lord." 
2Kings4:34 He went up and lay on the child, put his mouth on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands. And as he stretched himself on him and embraced him, the child's flesh became warm." 
2Kings4:35 Then he returned and walked in the house to and fro and went up again and stretched himself upon him. And the child sneezed seven times, and then opened his eyes." 
2Kings4:36 Then [Elisha] called Gehazi and said, Call this Shunammite. So he called her. And when she came, he said, Take up your son." 
2Kings4:37 She came and fell at his feet, bowing herself to the ground. Then she took up her son and went out." 
2Kings4:38 Elisha came back to Gilgal during a famine in the land. The sons of the prophets were sitting before him, and he said to his servant, Set on the big pot and cook pottage for the sons of the prophets." 
2Kings4:39 Then one went into the field to gather herbs and gathered from a wild vine his lap full of wild gourds, and returned and cut them up into the pot of pottage, for they were unknown to them." 
2Kings4:40 So they poured it out for the men to eat. But as they ate of the pottage, they cried out, O man of God, there is death in the pot! And they could not eat it." 
2Kings4:41 But he said, Bring meal [as a symbol of God's healing power]. And he cast it into the pot and said, Pour it out for the people that they may eat. Then there was no harm in the pot." 
2Kings4:42 [At another time] a man from Baal-shalisha came and brought the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and fresh ears of grain [in the husk] in his sack. And Elisha said, Give to the men that they may eat." 
2Kings4:43 His servant said, How am I to set [only] this before a hundred [hungry] men? He said, Give to the men that they may eat. For thus says the Lord: They shall be fed and have some left." 
2Kings4:44 So he set it before them, and they ate and left some, as the Lord had said." 
2Kings5:1 NAAMAN, COMMANDER of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master, accepted [and acceptable], because by him the Lord had given victory to Syria. He was also a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper." 
2Kings5:2 The Syrians had gone out in bands and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid, and she waited on Naaman's wife." 
2Kings5:3 She said to her mistress, Would that my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria! For he would heal him of his leprosy." 
2Kings5:4 [Naaman] went in and told his king, Thus and thus said the maid from Israel." 
2Kings5:5 And the king of Syria said, Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. And he departed and took with him ten talents of silver, 6,000 shekels of gold, and ten changes of raiment." 
2Kings5:6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel. It said, When this letter comes to you, I will with it have sent to you my servant Naaman, that you may cure him of leprosy." 
2Kings5:7 When the king of Israel read the letter, he rent his clothes and said, Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man sends to me to heal a man of his leprosy? Just consider and see how he is seeking a quarrel with me." 
2Kings5:8 When Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, he sent to the king, asking, Why have you rent your clothes? Let Naaman come now to me and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel." 
2Kings5:9 So Naaman came with his horses and chariots and stopped at Elisha's door. 
2Kings5:10 Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored and you shall be clean." 
2Kings5:11 But Naaman was angry and went away and said, Behold, I thought he would surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God, and wave his hand over the place and heal the leper." 
2Kings5:12 Are not Abana and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage." 
2Kings5:13 And his servants came near and said to him, My father, if the prophet had bid you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much rather, then, when he says to you, Wash and be clean?" 
2Kings5:14 Then he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, as the man of God had said, and his flesh was restored like that of a little child, and he was clean." 
2Kings5:15 Then Naaman returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and stood before him. He said, Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. So now accept a gift from your servant." 
2Kings5:16 Elisha said, As the Lord lives, before Whom I stand, I will accept none. He urged him to take it, but Elisha refused." 
2Kings5:17 Naaman said, Then, I pray you, let there be given to me, your servant, two mules' burden of earth. For your servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice to other gods, but only to the Lord." 
2Kings5:18 In this thing may the Lord pardon your servant: when my master [the king] goes into the house of [his god] Rimmon to worship there, and he leans on my hand and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, may the Lord pardon your servant in this thing." 
2Kings5:19 Elisha said to him, Go in peace. So Naaman departed from him a little way." 
2Kings5:20 But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold, my master spared this Naaman the Syrian, in not receiving from his hands what he brought. But as the Lord lives, I will run after him and get something from him." 
2Kings5:21 So Gehazi followed after Naaman. When Naaman saw one running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him and said, Is all well?" 
2Kings5:22 And he said, All is well. My master has sent me to say, There have just come to me from the hill country of Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets. I pray you, give them a talent of silver and two changes of garments." 
2Kings5:23 And Naaman said, Be pleased to take two talents. And he urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags with two changes of garments and laid them upon two of his servants, and they bore them before Gehazi." 
2Kings5:24 When he came to the hill, he took them from their hands and put them in the house; and he sent the men away, and they left." 
2Kings5:25 He went in and stood before his master. Elisha said, Where have you been, Gehazi? He said, Your servant went nowhere." 
2Kings5:26 Elisha said to him, Did not my spirit go with you when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Was it a time to accept money, garments, olive orchards, vineyards, sheep, oxen, menservants, and maidservants?" 
2Kings5:27 Therefore the leprosy of Naaman shall cleave to you and to your offspring forever. And Gehazi went from his presence a leper as white as snow. 
2Kings6:1 THE SONS of the prophets said to Elisha, Look now, the place where we live before you is too small for us." 
2Kings6:2 Let us go to the Jordan, and each man get there a [house] beam; and let us make us a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, Go." 
2Kings6:3 One said, Be pleased to go with your servants. He answered, I will go." 
2Kings6:4 So he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they cut down trees." 
2Kings6:5 But as one was felling his beam, the axhead fell into the water; and he cried, Alas, my master, for it was borrowed!" 
2Kings6:6 The man of God said, Where did it fall? When shown the place, Elisha cut off a stick and threw it in there, and the iron floated." 
2Kings6:7 He said, Pick it up. And he put out his hand and took it." 
2Kings6:8 When the king of Syria was warring against Israel, after counseling with his servants, he said, In such and such a place shall be my camp." 
2Kings6:9 Then the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, Beware that you pass not such a place, for the Syrians are coming down there." 
2Kings6:10 Then the king of Israel sent to the place of which [Elisha] told and warned him; and thus he protected and saved himself there repeatedly. 
2Kings6:11 Therefore the mind of the king of Syria was greatly troubled by this thing. He called his servants and said, Will you show me who of us is for the king of Israel?" 
2Kings6:12 One of his servants said, None, my lord O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedchamber." 
2Kings6:13 He said, Go and see where he is, that I may send and seize him. And it was told him, He is in Dothan." 
2Kings6:14 So [the Syrian king] sent there horses, chariots, and a great army. They came by night and surrounded the city." 
2Kings6:15 When the servant of the man of God rose early and went out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was around the city. Elisha's servant said to him, Alas, my master! What shall we do?" 
2Kings6:16 [Elisha] answered, Fear not; for those with us are more than those with them." 
2Kings6:17 Then Elisha prayed, Lord, I pray You, open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the young man's eyes, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha." 
2Kings6:18 And when the Syrians came down to him, Elisha prayed to the Lord, Smite this people with blindness, I pray You. And God smote them with blindness, as Elisha asked." 
2Kings6:19 Elisha said to the Syrians, This is not the way or the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek. And he led them to Samaria." 
2Kings6:20 And when they had come into Samaria, Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes, and they saw. Behold, they were in the midst of Samaria!" 
2Kings6:21 When the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, My father, shall I slay them? Shall I slay them?" 
2Kings6:22 [Elisha] answered, You shall not slay them. Would you slay those you have taken captive with your sword and bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and return to their master." 
2Kings6:23 So [the king] prepared great provision for them, and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel." 
2Kings6:24 Afterward, Ben-hadad king of Syria gathered his whole army and went up and besieged Samaria," 
2Kings6:25 And a great famine came to Samaria. They besieged it until a donkey's head was sold for eighty shekels of silver, and a fourth of a kab of dove's dung [a wild vegetable] for five shekels of silver." 
2Kings6:26 As the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, a woman cried to him, Help, my lord, O king!" 
2Kings6:27 He said, [For] if he does not help you [No, let the Lord help you!], from where can I get you help? Out of the threshing floor, or out of the winepress?" 
2Kings6:28 And the king said to her, What ails you? She answered, This woman said to me, Give me your son so we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow." 
2Kings6:29 So we boiled my son and ate him. The next day I said to her, Give your son so we may eat him, but she had hidden her son." 
2Kings6:30 When the king heard the woman's words, he rent his clothes. As he went on upon the wall, the people looked, and behold, he wore sackcloth inside on his flesh." 
2Kings6:31 Then he said, May God do so to me, and more also, if the head of Elisha son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day!" 
2Kings6:32 Now Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him. And the king sent a man from before him [to behead Elisha]. But before the messenger arrived, Elisha said to the elders, See how this son of [Jezebel] a murderer is sending to remove my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold it fast against him. Is not the sound of his master's feet [just] behind him?" 
2Kings6:33 And while Elisha was talking with them, behold, [the messenger] came to him [and then the king came also]. And [the relenting king] said, This evil is from the Lord! Why should I any longer wait [expecting Him to withdraw His punishment? What, Elisha, can be done now]?" 
2Kings7:1 THEN ELISHA said, Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord: Tomorrow about this time a measure of fine flour will sell for a shekel and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria!" 
2Kings7:2 Then the captain on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God and said, If the Lord should make windows in heaven, could this thing be? But Elisha said, You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it." 
2Kings7:3 Now four men who were lepers were at the entrance of the city's gate; and they said to one another, Why do we sit here until we die?" 
2Kings7:4 If we say, We will enter the city,then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there; and if we sit still here, we die also. So now come, let us go over to the army of the Syrians. If they spare us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die." 
2Kings7:5 So they arose in the twilight and went to the Syrian camp. But when they came to the edge of the camp, no man was there." 
2Kings7:6 For the Lord had made the Syrian army hear a noise of chariots and horses, the noise of a great army. They had said to one another, The king of Israel has hired the Hittite and Egyptian kings to come upon us." 
2Kings7:7 So the Syrians arose and fled in the twilight and left their tents, horses, donkeys, even the camp as it was, and fled for their lives." 
2Kings7:8 And when these lepers came to the edge of the camp, they went into one tent and ate and drank, and carried away silver, gold, and clothing, and went and hid them [in the darkness]. Then they entered another tent and carried from there also and went and hid it." 
2Kings7:9 Then they said one to another, We are not doing right. This is a day of [glad] good news and we are silent and do not speak up! If we wait until daylight, some punishment will come upon us [for not reporting at once]. So now come, let us go and tell the king's household." 
2Kings7:10 So they came and called to the gatekeepers of the city. They told them, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and behold, there was neither sight nor sound of man there,only the horses and donkeys tied, and the tents as they were." 
2Kings7:11 Then the gatekeepers called out, and it was told to the king's household within." 
2Kings7:12 And the king rose in the night and said to his servants, I will tell you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are hungry; therefore they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the open country, thinking, When they come out of the city, we shall take them alive and get into the city." 
2Kings7:13 One of his servants said, Let some men take five of the remaining horses; [if they are caught and killed] they will be no worse off than all the multitude of Israel left in the city to be consumed. Let us send and see." 
2Kings7:14 So they took two chariot horses, and the king sent them after the Syrian army, saying, Go and see." 
2Kings7:15 They went after them to the Jordan. All the way was strewn with clothing and equipment which the Syrians had cast away in their flight. And the messengers returned and told the king. 
2Kings7:16 Then the people went out and plundered the tents of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, as the Lord had spoken [through Elisha]. [II Kings 7:1.]" 
2Kings7:17 The king had appointed the captain on whose hand he leaned to have charge of the gate, and the [starving] people trampled him in the gate [as they struggled to get through for food], and he died, as the man of God had foretold when the king came down to him." 
2Kings7:18 When the man of God had told the king, Two measures of barley shall sell for a shekel and a measure of fine flour for a shekel tomorrow about this time in the gate of Samaria," 
2Kings7:19 The captain had told the man of God, If the Lord should make windows in heaven, could such a thing be? And he said, You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it. [II Kings 7:2.]" 
2Kings7:20 And so it was fulfilled to him, for the people trampled on him in the gate, and he died." 
2Kings8:1 NOW ELISHA had said to the woman whose son he had restored to life, Arise and go with your household and sojourn wherever you can, for the Lord has called for a famine, and moreover, it will come upon the land for seven years." 
2Kings8:2 So the woman arose and did as the man of God had said. She went with her household and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years. 
2Kings8:3 At the end of the seven years the woman returned from the land of the Philistines, and she went to appeal to the king for her house and land." 
2Kings8:4 The king talked with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, Tell me all the great things Elisha has done." 
2Kings8:5 And as Gehazi was telling the king how [Elisha] had restored the dead to life, behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life appealed to the king for her house and land. And Gehazi said, My lord O king, this is the woman, and this is her son whom Elisha brought back to life." 
2Kings8:6 When the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed to her a certain officer, saying, Restore all that was hers, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land even until now." 
2Kings8:7 Elisha came to Damascus, and Ben-hadad king of Syria was sick; and he was told, The man of God has come here." 
2Kings8:8 And the king said to Hazael, Take a present in your hand and go meet the man of God, and inquire of the Lord by him, saying, Shall I recover from this disease?" 
2Kings8:9 So Hazael went to meet Elisha and took a present with him of every good thing of Damascus, forty camel loads, and came and stood before him and said, Your son Ben-hadad king of Syria has sent me to you, asking, Shall I recover from this disease?" 
2Kings8:10 And Elisha said, Go, say to him, You shall certainly recover; but the Lord has shown me that he shall certainly die." 
2Kings8:11 Elisha stared steadily at him until Hazael was embarrassed. And the man of God wept. 
2Kings8:12 And Hazael said, Why do you weep, my lord? He answered, Because I know the evil that you will do to the Israelites. You will burn their strongholds, slay their young men with the sword, dash their infants in pieces, and rip up their pregnant women." 
2Kings8:13 And Hazael said, What is your servant, only a dog, that he should do this monstrous thing? And Elisha answered, The Lord has shown me that you will be king over Syria." 
2Kings8:14 Then [Hazael] departed from Elisha and came to his master, who said to him, What did Elisha say to you? And he answered, He told me you would surely recover." 
2Kings8:15 But the next day Hazael took the bedspread and dipped it in water and spread it on [the Syrian king's] face, so that he died. And Hazael reigned in his stead." 
2Kings8:16 In the fifth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah, Jehoram son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah began to reign." 
2Kings8:17 He was thirty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem." 
2Kings8:18 He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for [Athaliah] the daughter of Ahab was his wife. He did evil in the sight of the Lord." 
2Kings8:19 Yet, for David His servant's sake, the Lord would not destroy Judah, for He promised to give him and his sons a lamp forever." 
2Kings8:20 In his days, Edom revolted from the rule of Judah and set up a king over themselves." 
2Kings8:21 So Jehoram [of Judah] went over to Zair with all his chariots. He and his chariot commanders rose up by night and slew the Edomites who had surrounded them; and [escaping] his army fled home. 
2Kings8:22 So Edom revolted from the rule of Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time. 
2Kings8:23 The rest of the acts of Jehoram, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings8:24 Jehoram slept with his fathers and was buried with [them] in the City of David. Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings8:25 In the twelfth year of Joram son of Ahab king of Israel, Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign." 
2Kings8:26 Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Athaliah, the granddaughter of Omri king of Israel." 
2Kings8:27 He walked in the ways of the house of Ahab and did evil in the sight of the Lord, as did the house of Ahab, for his father was son-in-law of Ahab." 
2Kings8:28 Ahaziah went with Joram son of Ahab to war against Hazael king of Syria in Ramoth-gilead; and the Syrians wounded Joram. 
2Kings8:29 King Joram returned to Jezreel to be healed of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick." 
2Kings9:1 AND ELISHA the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, Gird up your loins, take this flask of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead." 
2Kings9:2 When you arrive, look there for Jehu son of Jehoshaphat son of Nimshi; and go in and have him arise from among his brethren and lead him to an inner chamber." 
2Kings9:3 Then take the cruse of oil and pour it on his head and say, Thus says the Lord: I have anointed you king over Israel. Then open the door and flee; do not tarry." 
2Kings9:4 So the young man, the young prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead." 
2Kings9:5 And when he came, the captains of the army were sitting outside; and he said, I have a message for you, O captain. Jehu said, To which of us? And he said, To you, O captain." 
2Kings9:6 And Jehu arose, and they went into the house. And the prophet poured the oil on Jehu's head and said to him, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: I have anointed you king over the people of the Lord, even over Israel." 
2Kings9:7 You shall strike down the house of Ahab your master, that I may avenge the blood of My servants the prophets and of all the servants of the Lord [who have died] at the hands of Jezebel." 
2Kings9:8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, and I will cut off from Ahab every male, bond or free, in Israel." 
2Kings9:9 I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam son of Nebat and like the house of Baasha son of Ahijah. [I Kings 21:22.] 
2Kings9:10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and none shall bury her. And he opened the door and fled. [Fulfilled in II Kings 9:33-37.]" 
2Kings9:11 When Jehu came out to the servants of his master, one said to him, Is all well? Why did this mad fellow come to you? And he said to them, You know that class of man and what he would say." 
2Kings9:12 And they said, That is false; tell us now. And he said, Thus and thus he spoke to me, saying, Thus says the Lord: I have anointed you king over Israel." 
2Kings9:13 Then they hastily took every man his garment and put it [for a cushion] under Jehu on the top of the [outside] stairs, and blew with trumpets, saying, Jehu is king!" 
2Kings9:14 So Jehu son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi, conspired against Joram [to dethrone and slay him]. Now Joram was holding Ramoth-gilead, he and all Israel, against Hazael king of Syria," 
2Kings9:15 But King Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him when he fought with Hazael king of Syria. And Jehu said, If this is your mind, let no one make his escape from the city [Ramoth-gilead] to go and tell it in Jezreel [the capital]." 
2Kings9:16 So Jehu rode in a chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah had come down to see Joram." 
2Kings9:17 A watchman on the tower in Jezreel spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company. And Joram said, Send a horseman to meet them and have him ask, Do you come in peace?" 
2Kings9:18 So one on horseback went to meet him and said, Thus says the king: Is it peace? And Jehu said, What have you to do with peace? Rein in behind me. And the watchman reported, The messenger came to them, but he does not return." 
2Kings9:19 Then Joram sent out a second man on horseback, who came to them and said, Thus says the king: Is it peace? Jehu replied, What have you to do with peace? Ride behind me." 
2Kings9:20 And the watchman reported, He came to them, but does not return; also the driving is like the driving of Jehu son of Nimshi, for he drives furiously." 
2Kings9:21 Joram said, Make ready. When his chariot was made ready, Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot. Thus they went out to meet Jehu and met him in the field of Naboth the Jezreelite." 
2Kings9:22 When Joram saw Jehu, he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And he answered, How can peace exist as long as the fornications of your mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?" 
2Kings9:23 Then Joram reined about and fled, and he said to Ahaziah, Treachery, Ahaziah!" 
2Kings9:24 But Jehu drew his bow with his full strength and shot Joram between his shoulders; and the arrow went out through his heart, and he sank down in his chariot." 
2Kings9:25 Then said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take [Joram] up and cast him in the plot of Naboth the Jezreelite's field; for remember how, when I and you rode together after Ahab his father, the Lord uttered this prophecy against him:" 
2Kings9:26 As surely as I saw yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons, says the Lord, I will repay you on this plot of ground, says the Lord. Now therefore, take and cast Joram into the plot of ground [of Naboth], as the word of the Lord said. [I Kings 21:15-29.]" 
2Kings9:27 When Ahaziah king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house. Jehu followed him and said, Smite him also in the chariot. And they did so at the ascent to Gur, which is by Ibleam. And [Ahaziah] fled to Megiddo and died there." 
2Kings9:28 His servants took him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulcher with his fathers in the City of David." 
2Kings9:29 In the eleventh year of Joram son of Ahab, Ahaziah's reign over Judah began." 
2Kings9:30 Now when Jehu came to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it, and she painted her eyes and beautified her head and looked out of [an upper] window." 
2Kings9:31 And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, [Have you come in] peace, you Zimri, who slew his master? [I Kings 16:9, 10.]" 
2Kings9:32 Jehu lifted up his face to the window and said, Who is on my side? Who? And two or three eunuchs looked out at him." 
2Kings9:33 And he said, Throw her down! So they threw her down, and some of her blood splattered on the wall and on the horses, and he drove over her." 
2Kings9:34 When he came in, he ate and drank, and said, See now to this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king's daughter." 
2Kings9:35 They went to bury her, but they found nothing left of her except the skull, feet, and palms of her hands." 
2Kings9:36 They came again and told Jehu. He said, This is the word of the Lord which He spoke by His servant Elijah the Tishbite, In the portion of Jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel. [I Kings 21:23.]" 
2Kings9:37 The corpse of Jezebel shall be like dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel." 
2Kings10:1 AHAB HAD seventy [grandsons] in Samaria. So Jehu wrote letters and sent them from Jezreel to the rulers of Samaria, to the elders, and to those who brought up Ahab's [grandsons], saying," 
2Kings10:2 Now as soon as this letter comes to you, seeing your master [Joram's] sons are with you and also chariots and horses, a fortified city, and weapons," 
2Kings10:3 Select the best and most fit of your master's sons and set him on his father's throne; and fight for your master's house. 
2Kings10:4 But they were exceedingly afraid and reasoned, The two kings could not stand before [Jehu]; how then can we stand?" 
2Kings10:5 And he who was over the household, he who was over the city, the elders also, and the guardians and tutors sent to Jehu, saying, We are your servants and will do all that you bid us; [but] we will not make any man king; do what is good in your eyes." 
2Kings10:6 Then [Jehu] wrote a second letter to them, saying, If you are with me and will obey me, take the heads of your master [Joram's] sons and come to me at Jezreel by tomorrow this time. Now the [dead] king's sons, seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, who were bringing them up." 
2Kings10:7 When the letter came to these men, they took the king's sons and slew them, seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets and sent them to Jehu at Jezreel." 
2Kings10:8 When a messenger came and told him, They have brought the heads of the king's sons, he said, Lay them in two heaps at the entrance of the city gate until morning." 
2Kings10:9 The next morning he went out and stood and said to all the people, You are just and innocent. Behold, I conspired against my master and slew him, but who smote all these?" 
2Kings10:10 Know now that nothing which the Lord spoke concerning the house of Ahab shall be unfulfilled or ineffective; for the Lord has done what He said through His servant Elijah. 
2Kings10:11 So Jehu slew all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men, his familiar friends, and his priests, until he left him none remaining." 
2Kings10:12 And he arose and went to Samaria. And as he was at the shearing house of the shepherds on the way," 
2Kings10:13 Jehu met the kinsmen of Ahaziah king of Judah and said, Who are you? They answered, We are the kinsmen of Ahaziah, and we came down to visit the royal princes and the sons of [Jezebel] the queen mother." 
2Kings10:14 He said, Take them alive. And they did so and slew them at the cistern of the shearing house, forty-two men; he left none of them." 
2Kings10:15 When Jehu left there, he met Jehonadab son of Rechab coming to meet him. He saluted him and said to him, Is your heart right, as my heart is with yours? Jehonadab answered, It is. [Jehu said] If it is, give me your hand. He gave him his hand, and Jehu took him up into the chariot." 
2Kings10:16 And he said, Come with me and see my zeal for the Lord. So they made [the Rechabite] ride in Jehu's chariot." 
2Kings10:17 When Jehu came to Samaria, he slew all who remained of Ahab's family in Samaria, till he had destroyed them all, according to what the Lord said to Elijah." 
2Kings10:18 Jehu assembled all the people and said to them, Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu will serve him much." 
2Kings10:19 So call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshipers, and all his priests. Let none be missing, for I have a great sacrifice to make to Baal; whoever is missing shall not live. But Jehu did it with trickery, intending to destroy the Baal worshipers." 
2Kings10:20 Jehu said, Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal. And they proclaimed it." 
2Kings10:21 Jehu sent through all Israel, and all the worshipers of Baal came; not a man failed to come. They went to the house or temple of Baal, filling it from one end to the other." 
2Kings10:22 And he said to the man over the vestry, Bring vestments for all the worshipers of Baal. And he brought them vestments." 
2Kings10:23 Then Jehu with Jehonadab son of Rechab went into the house of Baal and said to the worshipers of Baal, Search and see that there are here with you none of the servants of the Lord,but Baal worshipers only." 
2Kings10:24 And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings, Jehu appointed eighty men outside and said, If any of the men whom I have brought into your hands escape, he who lets him go shall forfeit his own life for his life." 
2Kings10:25 As soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, Jehu said to the guards and to the officers, Go in and slay them; let none escape. And they smote them with the sword; and the guards or runners [before the king] and the officers threw their bodies out and went into the inner dwelling of the house of Baal." 
2Kings10:26 They brought out the pillars or obelisks of the house of Baal and burned them. 
2Kings10:27 They broke down the pillars of Baal and the house of Baal, and made it [forever unclean] a privy to this day." 
2Kings10:28 Thus Jehu rooted Baal out of Israel. 
2Kings10:29 But Jehu did not give up the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, by which he made Israel to sin, that is, the golden calves at Bethel and Dan. [I Kings 12:28ff.]" 
2Kings10:30 And the Lord said to Jehu, Because you have executed well what is right in My eyes and have done to the house of Ahab as I willed, your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on Israel's throne. [Fulfilled in II Kings 15:12.]" 
2Kings10:31 But Jehu paid no attention to walking in the law of the Lord, the God of Israel, with all his heart. He did not quit the sins with which Jeroboam made Israel to sin." 
2Kings10:32 [So] in those days the Lord began to cut off parts of Israel. Hazael [of Syria] defeated them in all the [across the Jordan] territory of Israel 
2Kings10:33 From the Jordan east, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, Reubenites, and Manassites, from Aroer which is by the Valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan." 
2Kings10:34 The rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings10:35 Jehu slept with his fathers. They buried him in Samaria. Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings10:36 The time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years. 
2Kings11:1 WHEN ATHALIAH the mother of [King] Ahaziah [of Judah] saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal descendants." 
2Kings11:2 But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Jehoram, [half] sister of Ahaziah, stole Joash son of Ahaziah from among the king's sons, who were to be slain, even him and his nurse, and hid them from Athaliah in an inner storeroom for beds; so he was not slain." 
2Kings11:3 Joash was with his nurse hidden in the house of the Lord for six years. And Athaliah reigned over the land. 
2Kings11:4 In the seventh year Jehoiada [the priest, Jehosheba's husband] sent for the captains over hundreds of the Carites and of the guards or runners and brought them to him to the house of the Lord and made a covenant with them and took an oath from them in the house of the Lord and showed them the king's [hidden] son." 
2Kings11:5 And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing you shall do: a third of you who come in on the Sabbath shall keep watch of the king's house," 
2Kings11:6 A third shall be at the gate Sur, and a third at the gate behind the guard. So you shall keep watch of the palace [from three places] and be a barrier." 
2Kings11:7 And two divisions of all you who should go off duty on the Sabbath shall keep the watch of the house of the Lord to [protect] the king. 
2Kings11:8 You shall surround the [little] king, every man with his weapons in his hand. And let anyone who breaks through the ranks be put to death. You be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in." 
2Kings11:9 The captains over the hundreds did all that Jehoiada the priest commanded; and they took every man his men who were to come on duty on the Sabbath with those who should go off duty on the Sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest." 
2Kings11:10 To the captains over hundreds the priest gave the spears and shields that had been King David's, which were in the house of the Lord." 
2Kings11:11 And the guards stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the right corner to the left corner of the temple area, along by the altar [in the court] and the temple proper." 
2Kings11:12 And Jehoiada brought out the king's son and put the crown on him and gave him the Testimony [the Mosaic Law]; and they proclaimed him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and said, Long live the king!" 
2Kings11:13 When Athaliah heard the noise of the guards and the people, she went into the house of the Lord to the people." 
2Kings11:14 When she looked, there stood the king [on the platform] by the pillar, as was customary [on such occasions], and the captains and the trumpeters beside the king, with all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets. And Athaliah rent her clothes and cried, Treason! Treason!" 
2Kings11:15 Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds set over the army and said to them, Take her forth outside the ranks, and him who follows her kill with the sword. For the priest had said, Let her not be slain in the house of the Lord." 
2Kings11:16 They seized her, and she went through the horses' entrance to the king's house, and there she was slain." 
2Kings11:17 And Jehoiada made a covenant between the Lord, the king, and the people that they would be the Lord's people,and also between the king and the people." 
2Kings11:18 Then all the people of the land went to the house of Baal and destroyed it. His altar and his images they broke completely in pieces, and Mattan the priest of Baal they slew before the altars. And [Jehoiada] the priest appointed watchmen to guard the house of the Lord." 
2Kings11:19 Then he took the rulers over hundreds, the captains, the guard, and all the people of the land, and they brought the king down from the house of the Lord and came by way of the guards' gate to the king's house. And [little] Joash was seated on the throne of the kings." 
2Kings11:20 So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet after Athaliah had been slain with the sword beside the king's house." 
2Kings11:21 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign. 
2Kings12:1 IN THE seventh year of Jehu, Joash began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother was Zibiah of Beersheba." 
2Kings12:2 Joash did right in the sight of the Lord all his days in which Jehoiada the priest instructed him. 
2Kings12:3 Yet the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. 
2Kings12:4 And Joash said to the priests, All the current money brought into the house of the Lord to provide the dedicated things, also the money [which the priests by command have] assessed on all those bound by vows, also all the money that it comes into any man's heart voluntarily to bring into the house of the Lord," 
2Kings12:5 Let the priests solicit and receive such contributions, every man from his acquaintance, and let them repair the Lord's house wherever any such need may be found." 
2Kings12:6 But in the twenty-third year of King Joash's reign the priests had not made the needed repairs on the Lord's house. 
2Kings12:7 Then King Joash called for Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, Why are you not repairing the [Lord's] house? Do not take any more money from your acquaintances, but turn it all over for the repair of the house. [You are no longer responsible for this work. I will take it into my own hands.]" 
2Kings12:8 And the priests consented to receive no more money from the people, nor to repair the breaches of the house." 
2Kings12:9 Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in the lid of it and set it beside the altar on the right side as one entered the house of the Lord; and the priests who guarded the door put in the chest all the money that was brought into the house of the Lord. 
2Kings12:10 And whenever they saw that there was much money in the chest, the king's scribe and the high priest came up and counted the money that was found in the house of the Lord and tied it up in bags." 
2Kings12:11 Then they gave the money, when it was weighed, into the hands of those who were doing the work, who had the oversight of the house of the Lord; and they paid it out to the carpenters and builders who worked on the house of the Lord" 
2Kings12:12 And to the masons and stonecutters, and to buy timber and hewn stone for making the repairs on the house of the Lord, and for all that was outlay for repairing the house." 
2Kings12:13 However, there were not made for the house of the Lord basins of silver, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, any vessels of gold or of silver, from the money that was brought into the house of the Lord." 
2Kings12:14 But they gave that to the workmen, and repaired with it the house of the Lord." 
2Kings12:15 Moreover, they did not require an accounting from the men into whose hands they delivered the money to be paid to the workmen, for they dealt faithfully." 
2Kings12:16 The money from the guilt offerings and sin offerings was not brought into the house of the Lord; it was the priests'. 
2Kings12:17 Then Hazael king of Syria went up, fought against Gath [in Philistia], and took it. And Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:18 And Joash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that Jehoshaphat, Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his [forefathers], kings of Judah, had dedicated and his own hallowed things and all the gold that was found in the treasuries of the house of the Lord and in the king's house, and sent them to Hazael king of Syria; and Hazael went away from Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:19 The rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings12:20 His servants arose and made a conspiracy and slew Joash [in revenge] in the house of Millo, on the way that goes down to Silla. [II Chron. 24:22-25.]" 
2Kings12:21 It was Jozachar son of Shimeath and Jehozabad son of Shomer, his servants, who smote him so that he died. They buried [Joash] with his fathers in the City of David. Amaziah his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings13:1 IN THE twenty-third year of Joash son of Ahaziah king of Judah, Jehoahaz son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned seventeen years." 
2Kings13:2 He did evil in the sight of the Lord and followed the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which made Israel to sin, and did not depart from them." 
2Kings13:3 The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and He delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria and of Ben-hadad son of Hazael continually." 
2Kings13:4 But Jehoahaz besought the Lord, and the Lord hearkened to him, for He saw the oppression of Israel, how the king of Syria burdened them." 
2Kings13:5 Then the Lord gave Israel a savior [one to rescue and give them peace], so that they escaped from under the hand of the Syrians; and the Israelites dwelt in their tents or homes as before." 
2Kings13:6 Yet they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who made Israel sin; but the nation walked in them. And the Asherah [symbol of the goddess Asherah] remained in Samaria." 
2Kings13:7 [Ben-hadad] of Syria did not leave to Jehoahaz of [Israel] an army of more than fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and 10,000 footmen, for the Syrian king had destroyed them and made them like dust to be trampled." 
2Kings13:8 The rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, all that he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings13:9 Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. Jehoash his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings13:10 In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash son of Jehoahaz began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned sixteen years." 
2Kings13:11 He did evil in the sight of the Lord; he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who made Israel sin; he walked in them." 
2Kings13:12 The rest of the acts of Jehoash, all that he did, and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings13:13 Jehoash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam [II] sat on his throne. Jehoash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel." 
2Kings13:14 Now Elisha [previously] had become ill of the illness of which he died. And Jehoash king of Israel came down to him and wept over him and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen of it! [II Kings 2:12.]" 
2Kings13:15 And Elisha said to him, Take bow and arrows. And he took bow and arrows." 
2Kings13:16 And he said to the king of Israel, Put your hand upon the bow. And he put his hand upon it, and Elisha put his hands upon the king's hands." 
2Kings13:17 And he said, Open the window to the east. And he opened it. Then Elisha said, Shoot. And he shot. And he said, The Lord's arrow of victory, the arrow of victory over Syria. For you shall smite the Syrians in Aphek till you have destroyed them." 
2Kings13:18 Then he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, Strike on the ground. And he struck three times and stopped." 
2Kings13:19 And the man of God was angry with him and said, You should have struck five or six times; then you would have struck down Syria until you had destroyed it. But now you shall strike Syria down only three times." 
2Kings13:20 Elisha died, and they buried him. Bands of the Moabites invaded the land in the spring of the next year." 
2Kings13:21 As a man was being buried [on an open bier], such a band was seen coming; and the man was cast into Elisha's grave. And when the man being let down touched the bones of Elisha, he revived and stood on his feet." 
2Kings13:22 Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz. 
2Kings13:23 But the Lord was gracious to them and had compassion on them and turned toward them because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them or cast them from His presence yet. [Mal. 3:6.]" 
2Kings13:24 Hazael king of Syria died; Ben-hadad his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings13:25 Jehoash son of Jehoahaz recovered from Ben-hadad son of Hazael the cities which he had taken from Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times Jehoash defeated him, and recovered the cities of Israel. [II Kings 13:19.]" 
2Kings14:1 IN THE second year of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah reigned." 
2Kings14:2 He was twenty-five years old when he began his twenty-nine-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem. 
2Kings14:3 He did right in the sight of the Lord, yet not like David his [forefather]. He did all things as Joash his father did." 
2Kings14:4 But the high places were not removed; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
2Kings14:5 As soon as the kingdom was established in Amaziah's hand, he slew his servants who had slain the king his father. [II Kings 12:20.]" 
2Kings14:6 But he did not slay the children of the murderers, in compliance with what is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, in which the Lord commanded, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children for the fathers; but every man shall die for his own sin only." 
2Kings14:7 Amaziah slew of Edom in the Valley of Salt 10,000, and took Sela (Greek petra [rock]) by war, and called it Joktheel, which is the name of it to this day." 
2Kings14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face and test each other." 
2Kings14:9 Jehoash king of Israel replied to Amaziah king of Judah, The thistle in Lebanon sent to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son as wife. And a wild beast of Lebanon passed by and trampled the thistle [leaving the cedar unharmed]." 
2Kings14:10 You have indeed smitten Edom, and your heart has lifted you up. Glory in that, and stay at home; for why should you meddle to your hurt and provoke calamity, causing you to fall, you and Judah with you?" 
2Kings14:11 But Amaziah would not hear. So Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah measured swords at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah." 
2Kings14:12 But Judah was defeated by Israel, and every man fled home." 
2Kings14:13 And Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, son of Joash, the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits." 
2Kings14:14 He seized all the gold and silver and all the vessels found in the Lord's house and in the treasuries of the king's house, also hostages, and returned to Samaria." 
2Kings14:15 The rest of the acts of Jehoash, his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of Israel's Kings?" 
2Kings14:16 Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with Israel's kings. Jeroboam [II] reigned in his stead." 
2Kings14:17 Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years. 
2Kings14:18 The rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings14:19 Now a conspiracy was made against him in Jerusalem, and Amaziah fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish and slew him there." 
2Kings14:20 They brought him on horses and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the City of David. 
2Kings14:21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah." 
2Kings14:22 He built Elath and restored it to Judah after the king [his father] died. 
2Kings14:23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah Jeroboam [II] son of Jehoash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria, and reigned forty-one years." 
2Kings14:24 He did evil in the sight of the Lord; he did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam [I] son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin." 
2Kings14:25 Jeroboam restored Israel's border from the entrance of Hamath to the [Dead] Sea of the Arabah, according to the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which He spoke through His servant Jonah son of Amittai, the prophet from Gath-hepher." 
2Kings14:25 Jeroboam restored Israel's border from the entrance of Hamath to the [Dead] Sea of the Arabah, according to the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which He spoke through His servant Jonah son of Amittai, the prophet from Gath-hepher." 
2Kings14:26 For the Lord saw as very bitter the affliction of Israel; there was no one left, bond or free, nor any helper for Israel." 
2Kings14:27 But the Lord had not said that He would blot out the name of Israel from under the heavens, so He saved them by the hand of Jeroboam [II] son of Jehoash." 
2Kings14:28 The rest of the acts of Jeroboam [II], all that he did, his might, how he warred, and how he recovered for Israel Damascus and Hamath, which had belonged to Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings14:29 Jeroboam [II] slept with his fathers, the kings of Israel. Zechariah his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings14:29 Jeroboam [II] slept with his fathers, the kings of Israel. Zechariah his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings15:1 IN THE twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam [II] king of Israel, Azariah (Uzziah) son of Amaziah king of Judah began to reign." 
2Kings15:2 He was sixteen years old when he began his fifty-two-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 
2Kings15:3 He did right in the Lord's sight, in keeping with all his father Amaziah had done," 
2Kings15:4 Except the high places were not removed; the people sacrificed and burned incense still on the high places. 
2Kings15:5 And the Lord smote the king, so that he was a leper to his dying day, and dwelt in a separate house. Jotham the king's son was over the household, judging the people of the land. [II Chron. 26:16-21.]" 
2Kings15:6 The rest of Azariah's acts, all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings15:7 Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with them in the City of David. Jotham his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings15:8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah Zechariah son of Jeroboam [II] reigned over Israel in Samaria six months. 
2Kings15:8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah Zechariah son of Jeroboam [II] reigned over Israel in Samaria six months. 
2Kings15:9 He did evil in the sight of the Lord, as his fathers had done; he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam [I] son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin." 
2Kings15:10 Shallum son of Jabesh conspired against Zechariah and struck and killed him before the people and reigned in his stead. 
2Kings15:10 Shallum son of Jabesh conspired against Zechariah and struck and killed him before the people and reigned in his stead. 
2Kings15:11 The rest of the acts of Zechariah, see, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:11 The rest of the acts of Zechariah, see, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:12 This was the fulfillment of the promise to Jehu from the Lord: Your sons shall sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation. And so it came to pass. [II Kings 10:30.] 
2Kings15:13 Shallum son of Jabesh, in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, began his reign of a full month in Samaria." 
2Kings15:14 For Menahem son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria, and smote and killed Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria and reigned in his stead." 
2Kings15:15 The rest of Shallum's acts, his conspiracy, see, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:16 Then Menahem smote Tiphsah and all who were in it and its territory from Tirzah on; he attacked it because they did not open to him. And all the women there who were with child he ripped up. 
2Kings15:17 In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi began his ten-year reign over Israel in Samaria." 
2Kings15:18 He did evil in the sight of the Lord; he did not depart all his days from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he caused Israel to sin." 
2Kings15:19 There came against the land Pul king of Assyria, and Menahem gave Pul 1,000 talents of silver, that he might help him to confirm his kingship." 
2Kings15:20 Menahem exacted the money from Israel, from all the men of wealth, from each man fifty shekels of silver to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay in the land." 
2Kings15:21 The rest of Menahem's acts, all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?" 
2Kings15:22 Menahem slept with his fathers; Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings15:23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem began his two-year reign over Israel in Samaria." 
2Kings15:24 He did evil in the sight of the Lord; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam [I] son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings15:25 But Pekah son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against [Pekahiah] and attacked him in Samaria, in the citadel of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh; [for] with [Pekah] were fifty Gileadites. And he killed him and reigned in his stead." 
2Kings15:26 The rest of the acts of Pekahiah, all he did, see, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel." 
2Kings15:27 In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah began his twenty-year reign over Israel in Samaria." 
2Kings15:28 He did evil in the Lord's sight; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam [I] son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin." 
2Kings15:29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came and took Ijon, Abel-beth-maacah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and carried the people captive to Assyria." 
2Kings15:30 Hoshea son of Elah conspired against Pekah son of Remaliah [of Israel]; he smote and killed him, and reigned in his stead in the twentieth year of Jotham son of Uzziah king of Judah." 
2Kings15:31 The rest of Pekah's acts, all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of Israel's Kings." 
2Kings15:32 In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel, Jotham son of Uzziah king of Judah became king." 
2Kings15:33 When he was twenty-five years old, he began his reign of sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother was Jerusha daughter of Zadok." 
2Kings15:34 He did right in the Lord's sight, according to all his father Uzziah had done." 
2Kings15:35 Yet the high places were not removed; the people sacrificed and burned incense still on the high places. He built the Upper Gate of the house of the Lord. 
2Kings15:36 The rest of the acts of Jotham, all he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of Judah's Kings?" 
2Kings15:37 In those days the Lord began sending Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah against Judah. 
2Kings15:38 Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried [with them] in the city of David his [forefather]. Ahaz his son succeeded him. 
2Kings16:1 IN THE seventeenth year of Pekah son of Remaliah, Ahaz son of Jotham king of Judah became king." 
2Kings16:2 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began his sixteen-year reign in Jerusalem. He did not do right in the sight of the Lord his God, like David his [forefather]." 
2Kings16:3 But he walked in the ways of Israel's kings, yes, and made his son pass through the fire [and offered him as a sacrifice], in accord with the abominable [idolatrous] practices of the [heathen] nations whom the Lord drove out before the Israelites." 
2Kings16:4 He sacrificed and burned incense in the high places, on the hills, and under every green tree." 
2Kings16:5 Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war; they besieged Ahaz, but could not conquer him." 
2Kings16:6 At that time, Rezin king of Syria got back Elath [in Edom] for Syria and drove the Jews from [it]. The Syrians came to Elath and dwell there to this day." 
2Kings16:7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, I am your servant and son. Come up and save me out of the hands of the kings of Syria and of Israel, who are attacking me." 
2Kings16:8 And Ahaz took the silver and gold in the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the king's house and sent a present to the king of Assyria. 
2Kings16:9 Assyria's king hearkened to him; he went up against Damascus, took it, carried its people captive to Kir, and slew Rezin." 
2Kings16:10 King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, and saw there their [heathen] altar. King Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest a model of the altar and an exact pattern for its construction." 
2Kings16:11 So Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus, finishing it before King Ahaz returned." 
2Kings16:12 When the king came from Damascus, he looked at the altar and offered on it." 
2Kings16:13 King Ahaz burned his burnt offering and his cereal offering, poured his drink offering, and dashed the blood of his peace offerings upon that altar." 
2Kings16:14 The bronze altar which was before the Lord he removed from the front of the house, from between his [new] altar and the house of the Lord, and put it on the north side of his altar." 
2Kings16:15 And King Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest: Upon the principal (the new) altar, burn the morning burnt offering, the evening cereal offering, the king's burnt sacrifice and his cereal offering, with the burnt offering and cereal offering and drink offering of all the people of the land; and dash upon the [new] altar all the blood of the burnt offerings and the sacrifices. But the [old] bronze altar shall be kept for me to use to inquire by [of the Lord]." 
2Kings16:16 Urijah the priest did all this as King Ahaz commanded. 
2Kings16:17 [To keep Assyria's king from getting them] King Ahaz cut off the panels of the bases [of the ten lavers] and removed the laver from each of them; and he took down the Sea from off the bronze oxen that were under it and put it upon stone supports. 
2Kings16:18 And the covered way for the Sabbath that they had built in the temple court, and the king's outer entrance, he removed from the house of the Lord, because of the king of Assyria [who if he heard of them might seize them]." 
2Kings16:19 The rest of the acts of Ahaz, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings16:20 Ahaz slept with his fathers and was buried [with them] in the City of David. Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings17:1 IN THE twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea son of Elah began his nine-year reign in Samaria over Israel." 
2Kings17:2 He did evil in the sight of the Lord, but not as Israel's kings before him did." 
2Kings17:3 Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria, and Hoshea became his servant and brought him tribute." 
2Kings17:4 But the king of Assyria found treachery in Hoshea, for he had sent messengers to So king of Egypt and offered no tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year; therefore the king of Assyria shut him up and bound him in prison." 
2Kings17:5 Then the king of Assyria invaded all the land and went up to Samaria and besieged it for three years. 
2Kings17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria took Samaria and carried the Israelites away into Assyria, and placed them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan and in the cities of the Medes." 
2Kings17:7 This was so because the Israelites had sinned against the Lord their God, Who had brought them out of the land of Egypt, from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and they had feared other gods" 
2Kings17:8 And walked in the customs of the [heathen] nations whom the Lord drove out before the Israelites, customs the kings of Israel had introduced." 
2Kings17:9 The Israelites did secretly against the Lord their God things not right. They built for themselves high places in all their towns, from [lonely] watchtower to [populous] fortified city." 
2Kings17:10 They set up for themselves pillars and Asherim [symbols of the goddess Asherah] on every high hill and under every green tree. 
2Kings17:11 There they burned incense on all the high places, as did the nations whom the Lord carried away before them; and they did wicked things provoking the Lord to anger." 
2Kings17:12 And they served idols, of which the Lord had said to them, You shall not do this thing." 
2Kings17:13 Yet the Lord warned Israel and Judah through all the prophets and all the seers, saying, Turn from your evil ways and keep My commandments and My statutes, according to all the Law which I commanded your fathers and which I sent to you by My servants the prophets." 
2Kings17:14 Yet they would not hear, but hardened their necks as did their fathers who did not believe (trust in, rely on, and remain steadfast to) the Lord their God." 
2Kings17:15 They despised and rejected His statutes and His covenant which He made with their fathers and His warnings to them, and they followed vanity (false gods,falsehood, emptiness, and futility) and [they themselves and their prayers] became false (empty and futile). They went after the heathen round about them, of whom the Lord had charged them that they should not do as they did." 
2Kings17:16 And they forsook all the commandments of the Lord their God and made for themselves molten images, even two calves, and made an Asherah and worshiped all the [starry] hosts of the heavens and served Baal." 
2Kings17:17 They caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire and used divination and enchantments and sold themselves to do evil in the sight of the Lord, provoking Him to anger." 
2Kings17:18 Therefore the Lord was very angry with Israel and removed them out of His sight. None was left but the tribe of Judah. 
2Kings17:19 Judah also did not keep the commandments of the Lord their God, but walked in the customs which Israel introduced." 
2Kings17:20 The Lord rejected all the descendants of Israel and afflicted them and delivered them into the hands of spoilers, until He had cast them out of His sight." 
2Kings17:21 For He tore Israel from the house of David; and they made Jeroboam son of Nebat king. And Jeroboam drew and drove Israel away from following the Lord and made them sin a great sin. 
2Kings17:22 For the Israelites walked in all the sins Jeroboam committed; they departed not from them 
2Kings17:23 Until the Lord removed Israel from His sight, as He had foretold by all His servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away from their own land to Assyria to this day." 
2Kings17:24 The king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, Cuthah, Avva, Hamath, and Sepharvaim and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the Israelites. They possessed Samaria and dwelt in its cities." 
2Kings17:25 At the beginning of their dwelling there, they did not fear and revere the Lord. Therefore the Lord sent lions among them, which killed some of them." 
2Kings17:26 So the king of Assyria was told: The nations you removed and placed in the cities of Samaria do not know the manner in which the God of the land requires their worship. Therefore He has sent lions among them, and behold, they are killing them, because they do not know the manner of [worship demanded by] the God of the land." 
2Kings17:27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, Take to Samaria one of the priests you brought from there, and let him [and his helpers] go and live there and let him teach the people the law of the God of the land." 
2Kings17:28 So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and dwelt in Bethel and taught them how they should fear and revere the Lord. 
2Kings17:29 But every nationality still made gods of their own and put them in the shrines of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nationality in the city in which they dwelt." 
2Kings17:30 The men of Babylon made [and worshiped their deity] Succoth-benoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made Ashima," 
2Kings17:31 The Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burned their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim." 
2Kings17:32 So they feared the Lord, yet appointed from among themselves, whether high or low, priests of the high places, who sacrificed for them in the shrines of the high places." 
2Kings17:33 They feared the Lord, yet served their own gods, as did the nations from among whom they had been carried away." 
2Kings17:34 Unto this day they do after their former custom: they do not fear the Lord [as God sees it], neither do they obey the statutes or the ordinances or the law and commandment which the Lord commanded the children of Jacob, whom He named Israel," 
2Kings17:35 With whom the Lord had made a covenant and commanded them, You shall not fear other gods or bow yourselves to them or serve them or sacrifice to them." 
2Kings17:36 But you shall [reverently] fear, bow yourselves to, and sacrifice to the Lord, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt with great power and an outstretched arm." 
2Kings17:37 And the statutes, ordinances, law, and commandment which He wrote for you you shall observe and do forevermore; you shall not fear other gods." 
2Kings17:38 And the covenant that I have made with you you shall not forget; you shall not fear other gods. 
2Kings17:39 But the Lord your God you shall [reverently] fear; then He will deliver you out of the hands of all your enemies. 
2Kings17:40 However, they did not listen, but they did as they had done formerly." 
2Kings17:41 So these nations [vainly] feared the Lord and also served their graven images, as did their children and their children's children. As their fathers did, so do they to this day." 
2Kings18:1 IN THE third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Hezekiah son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign." 
2Kings18:2 He was twenty-five years old when he began his twenty-nine-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Abi daughter of Zechariah. 
2Kings18:2 He was twenty-five years old when he began his twenty-nine-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Abi daughter of Zechariah. 
2Kings18:3 Hezekiah did right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David his [forefather] had done." 
2Kings18:4 He removed the high places, broke the images, cut down the Asherim, and broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made, for until then the Israelites had burned incense to it; but he called it Nehushtan [a bronze trifle]." 
2Kings18:5 Hezekiah trusted in, leaned on, and was confident in the Lord, the God of Israel; so that neither after him nor before him was any one of all the kings of Judah like him." 
2Kings18:6 For he clung and held fast to the Lord and ceased not to follow Him, but kept His commandments, as the Lord commanded Moses." 
2Kings18:7 And the Lord was with Hezekiah; he prospered wherever he went. And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and refused to serve him. 
2Kings18:8 He smote the Philistines, even to Gaza [the most distant city] and its borders, from the [isolated] watchtower to the [populous] fortified city." 
2Kings18:9 In the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it." 
2Kings18:10 After three years it was taken; in the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was taken." 
2Kings18:11 The king of Assyria carried Israel away to Assyria, and put them in Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes," 
2Kings18:12 Because they did not obey the voice of the Lord their God, but transgressed His covenant, even all that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded, and would not hear it or do it." 
2Kings18:13 In the fourteenth year of Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them." 
2Kings18:14 Then Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, I have done wrong. Depart from me; what you put on me I will bear. And the king of Assyria exacted of Hezekiah king of Judah 300 talents of silver and thirty talents of gold." 
2Kings18:15 And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the king's house. 
2Kings18:16 Then Hezekiah stripped off the gold from the doors of the temple of the Lord and from the doorposts which he as king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria." 
2Kings18:17 And the king of Assyria sent the Tartan, the Rabsaris, and the Rabshakeh [the high officials] from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem with a great army. They went up to Jerusalem, and when they arrived, they came and stood by the canal of the Upper Pool, which is on the highway to the Fuller's Field. [II Chron. 32:9-19; Isa. 36:1-22.]" 
2Kings18:18 When they called for the king, there came out to them Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who was over the king's household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph the recorder." 
2Kings18:19 The Rabshakeh told them, Say to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king of Assyria: What justifies this confidence of yours?" 
2Kings18:20 You say,but they are empty words,There is counsel and strength for war. Now on whom do you rely, that you rebel against me?" 
2Kings18:21 Behold, you are relying on Egypt, that broken reed of a staff; if a man leans on it, it will pierce his hand. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust and rely on him." 
2Kings18:22 But if you tell me, We trust in and rely on the Lord our God, is it not He Whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and Jerusalem, You shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem?" 
2Kings18:23 So now, make a wager and give pledges to my lord the king of Assyria: I will deliver you 2,000 horses,if you can on your part put riders on them." 
2Kings18:24 How then can you beat back one captain among the least of my master's servants, when your trust is put in Egypt for chariots and horsemen?" 
2Kings18:25 Have I come up without the Lord against this place to destroy it? The Lord said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it." 
2Kings18:26 Then Eliakim son of Hilkiah and Shebna and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, We pray you, speak to your servants in the Aramaic (Syrian) language, for we understand it; and do not speak to us in the Jews' language in the hearing of the people on the wall." 
2Kings18:27 But the Rabshakeh said to them, Has my master sent me to your master and you only to say these things? Has he not sent me to the men who sit on the wall [whom Hezekiah has doomed to be forced] to eat their own dung and drink their own urine along with you?" 
2Kings18:28 Then the Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language, Hear the word of the great king of Assyria!" 
2Kings18:29 Thus says the king: Let not Hezekiah deceive you. For he will not be able to deliver you out of my hand. 
2Kings18:30 Nor let Hezekiah make you trust in and rely on the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliver us, and this city will not be given into the hand of Assyria's king." 
2Kings18:31 Hearken not to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me and come out to me, and eat every man from his own vine and fig tree and drink every man the waters of his own cistern," 
2Kings18:32 Until I come and take you away to a land like your own, a land of grain and vintage fruit, of bread and vineyards, of olive trees and honey, that you may live and not die. Do not listen to Hezekiah when he urges you, saying, The Lord will deliver us." 
2Kings18:33 Has any one of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? 
2Kings18:34 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad [in Syria]? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah [in the Euphrates Valley]? Have they delivered Samaria [Israel's capital] out of my hand?" 
2Kings18:35 Who of all the gods of the countries has delivered his country out of my hand, that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?" 
2Kings18:36 But the people were silent and answered him not a word, for Hezekiah had commanded, Do not answer him." 
2Kings18:37 Then Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who was over the royal household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph the recorder came to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him what the Rabshakeh had said." 
2Kings19:1 WHEN KING Hezekiah heard it, he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord. [Isa. 37:1-13.]" 
2Kings19:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over his household, Shebna the scribe, and the older priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz." 
2Kings19:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over his household, Shebna the scribe, and the older priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz." 
2Kings19:3 They said to him, Hezekiah says: This is a day of [extreme danger and] distress, of rebuke and chastisement, and blasphemous and insolent insult; for children have come to the birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth." 
2Kings19:4 It may be that the Lord your God will hear all the words of the Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria has sent to mock, reproach, insult, and defy the living God, and will rebuke the words which the Lord your God has heard. So raise your prayer for the remnant [of His people] that is left." 
2Kings19:5 So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
2Kings19:5 So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
2Kings19:6 Isaiah said to them, Say to your master, Thus says the Lord: Do not be afraid because of the words you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have reviled and blasphemed Me." 
2Kings19:6 Isaiah said to them, Say to your master, Thus says the Lord: Do not be afraid because of the words you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have reviled and blasphemed Me." 
2Kings19:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him so that he will hear a rumor and return to his own land, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own country." 
2Kings19:8 So the Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah [a fortified city of Judah]; for he had heard that the king had left Lachish. 
2Kings19:9 And Sennacherib king of Assyria heard concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He has come to make war against you. And when he heard it, he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying," 
2Kings19:10 Say this to Hezekiah king of Judah: Let not your God on Whom you rely deceive you by saying, Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria." 
2Kings19:11 Behold, you have heard what the Assyrian kings have done to all lands, destroying them utterly. And shall you be delivered?" 
2Kings19:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered those whom my ancestors have destroyed, as Gozan, Haran [of Mesopotamia], Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar?" 
2Kings19:13 Where are the kings of Hamath, of Arpad [of northern Syria], of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?" 
2Kings19:14 Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. And he went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. [Isa. 37:14-20.] 
2Kings19:15 And Hezekiah prayed: O Lord, the God of Israel, Who [in symbol] is enthroned above the cherubim [of the ark in the temple], You are the God, You alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made the heavens and the earth." 
2Kings19:16 Lord, bow down Your ear and hear; Lord, open Your eyes and see; hear the words of Sennacherib which he has sent to mock, reproach, insult, and defy the living God." 
2Kings19:17 It is true, Lord, that the Assyrian kings have laid waste the nations and their lands" 
2Kings19:18 And have cast the gods of those peoples into the fire, for they were not gods but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. So they [could destroy and] have destroyed them." 
2Kings19:19 Now therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech You, save us out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know and understand that You, O Lord, are God alone." 
2Kings19:20 Then Isaiah son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Your prayer to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard. [Isa. 37:21-38.]" 
2Kings19:20 Then Isaiah son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Your prayer to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard. [Isa. 37:21-38.]" 
2Kings19:21 This is the word that the Lord has spoken concerning him: The Virgin Daughter of Zion has despised you and laughed you to scorn; the Daughter of Jerusalem has wagged her head behind you. 
2Kings19:22 Whom have you mocked and reviled and insulted and blasphemed? Against Whom have you raised your voice and haughtily lifted your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel! 
2Kings19:23 By your messengers you have mocked, reproached, insulted, and defied the Lord, and have said, With my many chariots I have gone up to the heights of the mountains, to the far recesses of Lebanon. I cut down its tall cedar trees and its choicest cypress trees. I entered its most distant retreat, its densest forest." 
2Kings19:24 I dug wells and drank foreign waters, and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all [the defense and] the streams of Egypt." 
2Kings19:25 [But, says the God of Israel] Have you not heard how I ordained long ago what now I have brought to pass? I planned it in olden times, that you [king of Assyria] should [be My instrument to] lay waste fortified cities, making them ruinous heaps." 
2Kings19:26 That is why their inhabitants had little power, they were dismayed and confounded; they were like plants of the field, the green herb, the grass on the housetops, blasted before it is grown up." 
2Kings19:27 But [O Sennacherib] I [the Lord] know your sitting down, your going out, your coming in, and your raging against Me." 
2Kings19:28 Because your raging against Me and your arrogance and careless ease have come to My ears, therefore I will put My hook in your nose and My bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way you came, O king of Assyria." 
2Kings19:29 And [Hezekiah, says the Lord] this shall be the sign [of these things] to you: you shall eat this year what grows of itself, also in the second year what springs up voluntarily. But in the third year sow and reap, plant vineyards and eat their fruit." 
2Kings19:30 And the remnant that has survived of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
2Kings19:31 For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and a band of survivors out of Mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall perform this." 
2Kings19:32 Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow here or come before it with shield or cast up a siege mound against it. 
2Kings19:33 By the way that he came, by that way shall he return, and he shall not come into this city, says the Lord." 
2Kings19:34 For I will defend this city to save it, for My own sake and for My servant David's sake." 
2Kings19:35 And it all came to pass, for that night the Angel of the Lord went forth and slew 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians; and when [the living] arose early in the morning, behold, all these were dead bodies." 
2Kings19:36 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned and dwelt at Nineveh. 
2Kings19:37 And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons killed him with the sword, and they escaped to the land of Armenia or Ararat. Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings20:1 IN THOSE days Hezekiah became deadly ill. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz came and said to him, Thus says the Lord: Set your house in order, for you shall die; you shall not recover. [II Chron. 32:24-26; Isa. 38:1-8.]" 
2Kings20:1 IN THOSE days Hezekiah became deadly ill. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz came and said to him, Thus says the Lord: Set your house in order, for you shall die; you shall not recover. [II Chron. 32:24-26; Isa. 38:1-8.]" 
2Kings20:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord, saying," 
2Kings20:3 I beseech You, O Lord, [earnestly] remember now how I have walked before You in faithfulness and truth and with a whole heart [entirely devoted to You] and have done what is good in Your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly." 
2Kings20:4 Before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the Lord came to him:" 
2Kings20:4 Before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the Lord came to him:" 
2Kings20:5 Turn back and tell Hezekiah, the leader of My people, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your [forefather]: I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the Lord." 
2Kings20:6 I will add to your life fifteen years and deliver you and this city [Jerusalem] out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city for My own sake and for My servant David's sake. 
2Kings20:7 And Isaiah said, Bring a cake of figs. Let them lay it on the burning inflammation, that he may recover." 
2Kings20:7 And Isaiah said, Bring a cake of figs. Let them lay it on the burning inflammation, that he may recover." 
2Kings20:8 Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the Lord will heal me and that I shall go up into the house of the Lord on the third day?" 
2Kings20:8 Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the Lord will heal me and that I shall go up into the house of the Lord on the third day?" 
2Kings20:9 And Isaiah said, This is the sign to you from the Lord that He will do the thing He has promised: shall the shadow [denoting the time of day] go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?" 
2Kings20:9 And Isaiah said, This is the sign to you from the Lord that He will do the thing He has promised: shall the shadow [denoting the time of day] go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?" 
2Kings20:10 Hezekiah answered, It is an easy matter for the shadow to go forward ten steps; so let the shadow go back ten steps." 
2Kings20:11 So Isaiah the prophet cried to the Lord, and He brought the shadow the ten steps backward by which it had gone down on the sundial of Ahaz." 
2Kings20:11 So Isaiah the prophet cried to the Lord, and He brought the shadow the ten steps backward by which it had gone down on the sundial of Ahaz." 
2Kings20:12 At that time Merodach-baladan son of Baladan king of Babylon sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he had heard of Hezekiah's illness. [Isa. 39:1-8.]" 
2Kings20:13 And Hezekiah rejoiced and welcomed the embassy and showed them all his treasure-house,the silver, gold, spices, precious ointment, his armory, and all that was found in his treasuries. There was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them." 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said, What did these men say? From where did they come to you? Hezekiah said, They are from a far country, from Babylon." 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said, What did these men say? From where did they come to you? Hezekiah said, They are from a far country, from Babylon." 
2Kings20:15 Isaiah said, What have they seen in your house? Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house. There is no treasure of mine that I have not shown them." 
2Kings20:15 Isaiah said, What have they seen in your house? Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house. There is no treasure of mine that I have not shown them." 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the Lord!" 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the Lord!" 
2Kings20:17 Behold, the time is coming when all that is in your house, and that which your forefathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon; nothing shall be left, says the Lord." 
2Kings20:18 And some of your sons who shall be born to you shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of Babylon's king." 
2Kings20:19 Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, The word of the Lord you have spoken is good. For he thought, Is it not good, if [all this evil is meant for the future and] peace and security shall be in my days?" 
2Kings20:19 Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, The word of the Lord you have spoken is good. For he thought, Is it not good, if [all this evil is meant for the future and] peace and security shall be in my days?" 
2Kings20:20 The rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made the pool and the canal and brought water into the city, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings20:21 Hezekiah slept with his fathers. Manasseh his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings21:1 MANASSEH WAS twelve years old when he began his fifty-five-year [wicked] reign in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hephzibah. 
2Kings21:2 He [Hezekiah's son] did evil in the sight of the Lord, after the [idolatrous] practices of the [heathen] nations whom the Lord cast out before the Israelites." 
2Kings21:3 For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal and made an Asherah, as did Ahab king of Israel, and worshiped all the [starry] hosts of the heavens and served them!" 
2Kings21:4 And he built [heathen] altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord said, In Jerusalem will I put My Name [and the pledge of My presence]." 
2Kings21:5 And he [good Hezekiah's son] built altars for all the hosts of the heavens in the two courts of the house of the Lord! 
2Kings21:6 And he made his son pass through the fire and burned him as an offering [to Molech]; he practiced soothsaying and augury, and dealt with mediums and wizards! He did much wickedness in the sight of the Lord, provoking Him to anger." 
2Kings21:7 He made a graven image of [the goddess] Asherah and set it in the house, of which the Lord said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put My Name [and the pledge of My presence] forever;" 
2Kings21:8 And I will not cause the feet of Israel to wander any more out of the land which I gave their fathers, if only they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them and according to all the law that My servant Moses commanded them." 
2Kings21:9 But they would not listen; and Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than the nations did whom the Lord destroyed before the Israelites! 
2Kings21:10 And the Lord said through His servants the prophets: 
2Kings21:11 Because Manasseh king of Judah has committed these abominations, and has done wickedly above all that the Amorites did who were before him, and has made Judah also to sin with his idols," 
2Kings21:12 Therefore thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah, that whoever hears of it, both his ears shall tingle!" 
2Kings21:13 And I will stretch over Jerusalem the measuring line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab; and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down." 
2Kings21:14 And I will cast off the rest of My inheritance and deliver them into the hands of their enemies; and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies," 
2Kings21:15 For they have done evil in My sight and have provoked Me to anger since their fathers came out of Egypt to this day. 
2Kings21:16 Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood, filling Jerusalem from one end to another,besides his sin in making Judah sin, by doing evil in the sight of the Lord! [II Chron. 33:1-10.]" 
2Kings21:17 The rest of the acts of Manasseh, all that he did, and his sin that he committed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings21:18 Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. Amon his son reigned in his stead." 
2Kings21:19 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began his two-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Meshullemeth daughter of Haruz of Jotbah. 
2Kings21:20 [But] he also did evil in the sight of the Lord, as his father Manasseh had done. [II Kings 23:26, 27; 24:3, 4.]" 
2Kings21:21 He walked in all the ways of his father; and he served the idols that his father served, and worshiped them;" 
2Kings21:22 He forsook the Lord, the God of his [forefathers], and did not walk in the way of the Lord." 
2Kings21:23 The servants of Amon conspired against him and killed the king in his own house. 
2Kings21:24 But the people of the land killed all those who had conspired against King Amon, and made Josiah his son king in his stead." 
2Kings21:25 The rest of the acts of Amon, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?" 
2Kings21:26 He was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza. Josiah his son succeeded him. 
2Kings22:1 JOSIAH WAS eight years old when he began his thirty-one-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Jedidah daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath. 
2Kings22:2 He did right in the sight of the Lord and walked in all the ways of David his [forefather], and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left." 
2Kings22:3 In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, he sent Shaphan son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the Lord's house, saying," 
2Kings22:4 Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may count the money brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the door have gathered from the people. [II Kings 12:4ff.]" 
2Kings22:5 And let them deliver it into the hands of the workmen who have oversight of the Lord's house, to give to the laborers engaged in the repairing of the Lord's house," 
2Kings22:6 That is, to the carpenters, builders, and masons,and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house." 
2Kings22:7 However, there was no accounting required of them for the money delivered into their hands, because they dealt faithfully." 
2Kings22:8 Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the Book of the Law in the house of the Lord! Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it." 
2Kings22:9 And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and reported to him: Your servants have gathered the money that was found in the house and have delivered it into the hands of the workmen who have oversight of the house of the Lord. 
2Kings22:10 Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king." 
2Kings22:11 And when the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he rent his clothes." 
2Kings22:12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Achbor son of Micaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah servant of the king," 
2Kings22:13 Go, inquire of the Lord for me and for the people and for all Judah concerning the words of this book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us because our fathers have not listened and obeyed the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us." 
2Kings22:14 So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe,now she dwelt in Jerusalem, in the Second Quarter,and they talked with her." 
2Kings22:15 She said to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Tell the man who sent you to me," 
2Kings22:16 Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon its inhabitants, according to all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read." 
2Kings22:17 Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods, provoking Me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore My wrath will be kindled against this place and will not be quenched." 
2Kings22:18 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, say this, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, regarding the words you have heard:" 
2Kings22:19 Because your heart was [tender and] penitent and you humbled yourself before the Lord when you heard what I said against this place and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation, [an astonishment and] a curse, and you have rent your clothes and wept before Me, I also have heard you, says the Lord." 
2Kings22:20 Behold, therefore [King Josiah], I will gather you to your fathers, taken to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring on this place. And they brought the king word." 
2Kings23:1 KING JOSIAH sent and gathered to him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem. 
2Kings23:2 The king went up to the house of the Lord, and with him all the men of Judah, all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the priests, the prophets, and all the people, both small and great. And he read in their ears all the words of the Book of the Covenant, which was found in the Lord's house." 
2Kings23:3 The king stood [on the platform] by the pillar and made a covenant before the Lord,to walk after the Lord and to keep His commandments, His testimonies, and His statutes with all his heart and soul, to confirm the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people stood to join in the covenant." 
2Kings23:4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests of the second rank and the keepers of the threshold to bring out of the temple of the Lord all the vessels made for Baal, for [the goddess] Asherah, and for all the hosts of the heavens; and he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron, and carried their ashes to Bethel [where Israel's idolatry began]. [I Kings 12:28, 29.]" 
2Kings23:5 He put away the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in Judah's cities and round about Jerusalem,also those who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, to the moon, to the constellations [or twelve signs of the zodiac], and to all the hosts of the heavens." 
2Kings23:6 And Josiah brought the Asherah from the house of the Lord to outside Jerusalem to the brook Kidron and burned it there, and beat it to dust and cast its dust upon the graves of the common people [who had sacrificed to it]." 
2Kings23:7 And he broke down the houses of the male cult prostitutes, which were by the house of the Lord, where the women wove [tent] hangings for the Asherah [shrines]." 
2Kings23:8 And [Josiah] brought all the [idolatrous] priests out of the city of Judah and defiled the high places, where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba [north to south], and broke down the high places both at the entrance of the Gate of Joshua the governor of the city and that which was on one's left at the city's gate." 
2Kings23:8 And [Josiah] brought all the [idolatrous] priests out of the city of Judah and defiled the high places, where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba [north to south], and broke down the high places both at the entrance of the Gate of Joshua the governor of the city and that which was on one's left at the city's gate." 
2Kings23:9 However, the priests of the high places were not allowed to sacrifice upon the Lord's altar in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brethren." 
2Kings23:10 And Josiah defiled Topheth, which is in the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], that no man might ever burn there his son or his daughter as an offering to Molech. [Ezek. 16:21.]" 
2Kings23:11 And he removed the horses that the kings of Judah had devoted to the sun from the entrance of the house of the Lord, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the chamberlain, which was in the area, and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire." 
2Kings23:12 And the altars on the roof of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the Lord, [Josiah] pulled down and beat them in pieces, and he [ran and] cast their dust into the brook Kidron." 
2Kings23:13 And the king defiled the high places east of Jerusalem, south of the Mount of Corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the abominable [goddess] of the Sidonians, for Chemosh the abominable god of the Moabites, and for Milcom the abominable [god] of the Ammonites." 
2Kings23:14 He broke in pieces the pillars (images) and cut down the Asherim and replaced them with the bones of men [to defile the places forever]. 
2Kings23:15 Moreover, the altar at Bethel, the high place made by Jeroboam son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, that altar with the high place Josiah tore down and broke in pieces its stones, beating them to dust, and burned the Asherah." 
2Kings23:16 And as Josiah turned, he saw the tombs across on the mount, and he sent and brought the bones out of the tombs and burned them upon the altar and defiled it, in fulfillment of the word of the Lord which the man of God prophesied, who predicted these things [about this altar, naming Josiah before he was born]. [I Kings 13:2-5.]" 
2Kings23:17 Josiah said, What is that monument I see? The men of the city told him, It is the tomb of the man of God who came from Judah and foretold these things that you have just done against the altar of Bethel." 
2Kings23:18 He said, Let him alone; let no man move his bones. So they let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet that came out of Samaria. [I Kings 13:31, 32.]" 
2Kings23:19 Also Josiah took away all the houses of the high places in the cities of Samaria which the kings of Israel had made, provoking the Lord to anger, and he did to them all that he had done in Bethel." 
2Kings23:20 He slew all the priests of the high places that were there upon the altars and burned men's bones upon them [to defile the places forever]. Then he returned to Jerusalem. 
2Kings23:21 The king commanded all the people, Keep the Passover to the Lord your God, as it is written in this Book of the Covenant." 
2Kings23:22 Surely such a Passover was not held from the days of Israel's judges, even in all the days of the kings of Israel or Judah." 
2Kings23:23 But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, this Passover was kept to the Lord in Jerusalem." 
2Kings23:24 Moreover, Josiah put away the mediums, the wizards, the teraphim (household gods), the idols, and all the abominations that were seen in Judah and in Jerusalem, that he might establish the words of the law written in the book found by Hilkiah the priest in the house of the Lord." 
2Kings23:25 There was no king like him before or after [Josiah] who turned to the Lord with all his heart and all his soul and all his might, according to all the Law of Moses." 
2Kings23:26 Still the Lord did not turn from the fierceness of His great wrath, kindled against Judah because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked Him." 
2Kings23:27 And the Lord said, I will remove Judah also out of My sight as I have removed Israel, and will cast off this city, Jerusalem, which I have chosen, and the house, of which I said, My Name [and the pledge of My presence] shall be there." 
2Kings23:28 The rest of the acts of Josiah, all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of Judah's Kings?" 
2Kings23:29 In his days Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. King Josiah went out against him, but he slew Josiah at Megiddo when he saw him." 
2Kings23:30 Josiah's servants carried him dead in a chariot from Megiddo, brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own tomb. The people of the land anointed Jehoahaz son of Josiah king in his stead." 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began his three-month reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began his three-month reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
2Kings23:32 He did evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all [the evil] his forefathers had done." 
2Kings23:33 And Pharaoh Necho put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem, and laid a tribute of a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold upon the land." 
2Kings23:34 Pharaoh Necho made Eliakim son of Josiah king in place of Josiah and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But he took Jehoahaz away to Egypt, where he died." 
2Kings23:35 Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land to give the money as Pharaoh commanded. He exacted the silver and gold of the people of the land, from everyone according to his assessment, to give it to Pharaoh Necho." 
2Kings23:36 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began his eleven-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Zebidah daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah. 
2Kings23:37 He did evil in the sight of the Lord, like all his [forefathers] had done." 
2Kings24:1 IN HIS days, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years; then he turned and rebelled against him." 
2Kings24:2 The Lord sent against Jehoiakim bands of Chaldeans, of Syrians, of Moabites, and of Ammonites. And He sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the Lord which He spoke by His servants the prophets." 
2Kings24:3 Surely this came upon Judah at the command of the Lord, to remove them out of His sight because of the sins of Manasseh according to all he had done," 
2Kings24:4 And also for the innocent blood that he shed. For he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, and the Lord would not pardon." 
2Kings24:5 The rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of Judah's Kings?" 
2Kings24:6 So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers. Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead. 
2Kings24:7 The king of Egypt came no more out of his land, for the king of Babylon had taken all that belonged to Egypt's king, from the River of Egypt to the river Euphrates." 
2Kings24:8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began his three-month reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Nehushta daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. 
2Kings24:9 And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, in keeping with all his father had done." 
2Kings24:10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up to Jerusalem, and the city was besieged." 
2Kings24:11 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to the city while his servants were besieging it. 
2Kings24:12 Jehoiachin king of Judah surrendered to the king of Babylon, he, his mother, his servants, princes, and palace officials. The king of Babylon took him prisoner in the eighth year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign." 
2Kings24:13 He carried off all the treasures of the Lord's house and the king's house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold in the temple of the Lord, which Solomon king of Israel had made, as the Lord had said." 
2Kings24:14 He carried away all Jerusalem, all the princes, all the mighty men of valor, 10,000 captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths. None remained except the poorest of the land." 
2Kings24:15 Nebuchadnezzar took captive to Babylon King Jehoiachin; his mother, his wives, his officials, and the chief and mighty men of the land [the prophet Ezekiel included] he took from Jerusalem to Babylon into exile. [Ezek. 1:1.]" 
2Kings24:15 Nebuchadnezzar took captive to Babylon King Jehoiachin; his mother, his wives, his officials, and the chief and mighty men of the land [the prophet Ezekiel included] he took from Jerusalem to Babylon into exile. [Ezek. 1:1.]" 
2Kings24:16 And the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon all the men of valor, 7,000, and craftsmen and smiths, 1,000, all strong and fit for war." 
2Kings24:17 And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah, Jehoiachin's uncle, king in his stead and changed his name to Zedekiah." 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began his eleven-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began his eleven-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
2Kings24:19 He did evil in the sight of the Lord, in keeping with all Jehoiakim had done." 
2Kings24:20 For because of the anger of the Lord it came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that He cast them out of His presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. 
2Kings25:1 IN THE ninth year of Zedekiah's reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem and laid siege to it, and they built siege works against it round about." 
2Kings25:2 The city was besieged [nearly two years] until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. 
2Kings25:3 On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was complete in the city; there was no food for the people of the land. 
2Kings25:4 Then the city was broken through; the king and all the warriors fled by night by way of the gate between the two walls by the king's garden, though the Chaldeans were round about the city. [The king] went by the way toward the Arabah (the plain)." 
2Kings25:5 The Chaldean army pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho. All his army was scattered from him. 
2Kings25:6 So they captured Zedekiah and brought him to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and sentence was passed on him." 
2Kings25:7 And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes and put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in double fetters [hands and feet] and carried him to Babylon. [Foretold in Jer. 34:3; Ezek. 12:13.] 
2Kings25:8 On the seventh day of the fifth month of the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, Nebuzaradan, captain of the Babylonian king's guard, came to Jerusalem." 
2Kings25:9 He burned the house of the Lord, the king's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he burned down." 
2Kings25:10 All the army of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the [Babylonian] guard broke down the walls around Jerusalem. 
2Kings25:11 Now the rest of the people left in the city and the deserters who fell away to the king of Babylon, along with the rest of the multitude, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried into exile." 
2Kings25:12 But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and soil tillers. 
2Kings25:13 The bronze pillars in the Lord's house and [its] bases and the bronze Sea the Chaldeans smashed and carried the bronze to Babylon. 
2Kings25:14 And they took away the pots, shovels, snuffers, dishes for incense, all the bronze vessels used in the temple service," 
2Kings25:15 The firepans, and bowls. Such things as were of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and what was of silver [he took away] as silver." 
2Kings25:16 The two pillars, the one Sea, and the bases, which Solomon had made for the house of the Lord, the bronze of all these articles was incalculable." 
2Kings25:17 The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and upon it was a capital of bronze. The height of the capital was three cubits; a network and pomegranates round about the capital were all of bronze. And the second pillar had the same as these, with a network." 
2Kings25:18 The captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold." 
2Kings25:18 The captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold." 
2Kings25:19 And out of the city he took an officer who was in command of the men of war and five men of the king's personal advisors, who were found in the city, and the scribe of the captain of the army who mustered the people of the land and sixty men of the people who were found in the city." 
2Kings25:20 Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took these and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
2Kings25:21 The king of Babylon smote and killed them at Riblah in the land of Hamath [north of Damascus]. So Judah was taken into exile. 
2Kings25:22 Over the people whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left in the land of Judah he appointed as governor Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan." 
2Kings25:23 And when all the captains of the forces and their men heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came with their men to Gedaliah at Mizpah, namely, Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan son of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah son of the Maacathite." 
2Kings25:24 And Gedaliah swore to them and their men, saying, Do not be afraid of the Chaldean officials. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you." 
2Kings25:25 But in the seventh month Ishmael son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal family [so having a claim to be governor], came with ten men and smote and killed Gedaliah and the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah." 
2Kings25:26 Then all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces arose and went to Egypt, for they were afraid of the Chaldeans." 
2Kings25:27 And in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, on the twenty-seventh day of the twelfth month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, showed favor to Jehoiachin king of Judah and released him from prison;" 
2Kings25:28 He spoke kindly to him and ranked him above the kings with him in Babylon. 
2Kings25:29 Jehoiachin put off his prison garments, and he dined regularly at the king's table the remainder of his life." 
2Kings25:30 And his allowance, a continual one, was given him by the king, every day a portion, for the rest of his life." 
1Chronicles1:1 ADAM [his genealogical line], Seth, Enosh," 
1Chronicles1:2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared," 
1Chronicles1:3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech," 
1Chronicles1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
1Chronicles1:5 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras." 
1Chronicles1:6 The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah." 
1Chronicles1:7 The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim." 
1Chronicles1:8 The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim (Egypt), Put, and Canaan." 
1Chronicles1:9 The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:10 Cush was the father of Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one upon the earth. 
1Chronicles1:11 Mizraim (Egypt) was the father of the Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim," 
1Chronicles1:12 Pathrusim, Casluhim, from whom came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim." 
1Chronicles1:13 Canaan was the father of Sidon his firstborn, and Heth," 
1Chronicles1:14 The Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites," 
1Chronicles1:15 Hivites, Arkites, Sinites," 
1Chronicles1:16 Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites." 
1Chronicles1:17 The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech." 
1Chronicles1:18 Arpachshad was the father of Shelah, Shelah of Eber." 
1Chronicles1:19 To Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg, because in his days [the population of] the earth was divided [according to its languages], and his brother's name was Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:20 Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah," 
1Chronicles1:21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
1Chronicles1:22 Ebal, Abimael, Sheba," 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:24 Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah," 
1Chronicles1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu," 
1Chronicles1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah," 
1Chronicles1:27 Abram, the same as Abraham." 
1Chronicles1:28 The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael. 
1Chronicles1:29 These are their descendants: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
1Chronicles1:30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema," 
1Chronicles1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael." 
1Chronicles1:32 Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:33 The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons [and grandsons] of Keturah." 
1Chronicles1:34 Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel. 
1Chronicles1:35 The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah." 
1Chronicles1:36 The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek." 
1Chronicles1:37 The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah." 
1Chronicles1:38 The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan." 
1Chronicles1:39 The sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam; and Timna was Lotan's sister. 
1Chronicles1:40 The sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah." 
1Chronicles1:41 The son of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran." 
1Chronicles1:42 The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, [and] Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran." 
1Chronicles1:43 These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites: Bela son of Beor; the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
1Chronicles1:44 When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:44 When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:45 When Jobab died, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:45 When Jobab died, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:46 When Husham died, Hadad [I of Edom] son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead; his city was Avith." 
1Chronicles1:47 When Hadad [I] died, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:48 When Samlah died, Shaul of Rehoboth on the River [Euphrates] reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:49 When Shaul died, Baal-hanan son of Achbor reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles1:50 When Baal-hanan died, Hadad [II] reigned in his stead; his city was Pai; his wife was Mehetabel daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab." 
1Chronicles1:51 Hadad died also. The chiefs of Edom were: chiefs Timna, Aliah, Jetheth," 
1Chronicles1:52 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon," 
1Chronicles1:53 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
1Chronicles1:54 Magdiel, and Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom." 
1Chronicles2:1 THESE ARE the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun," 
1Chronicles2:2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher." 
1Chronicles2:3 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah, whom Shua's daughter the Canaanitess bore him. Er, Judah's eldest, was evil in the Lord's sight, and He slew him." 
1Chronicles2:4 Tamar, Judah's daughter-in-law, bore him Pharez and Zerah. All Judah's sons were five." 
1Chronicles2:5 The sons of Pharez: Hezron and Hamul. 
1Chronicles2:6 The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara,five in all. [I Kings 4:31.]" 
1Chronicles2:7 The son of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the matter of the devoted things. [Josh. 7:1.]" 
1Chronicles2:8 The son of Ethan: Azariah. 
1Chronicles2:9 The sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai (that is, Caleb)." 
1Chronicles2:10 Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab of Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah." 
1Chronicles2:11 Nahshon was the father of Salma, Salma of Boaz," 
1Chronicles2:12 Boaz of Obed, and Obed of Jesse." 
1Chronicles2:13 Jesse was the father of Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab second, Shimea third," 
1Chronicles2:14 Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth," 
1Chronicles2:15 Ozem sixth, David seventh." 
1Chronicles2:16 Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three." 
1Chronicles2:17 Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite." 
1Chronicles2:18 And Caleb son of Hezron had sons by his wife Azubah and by Jerioth. [Azubah's] sons were: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon." 
1Chronicles2:19 Azubah died, and Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur." 
1Chronicles2:20 Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri of Bezalel [the skillful craftsman who made the furnishings of the tabernacle]. [Exod. 31:2-5.]" 
1Chronicles2:21 Later, when Hezron was sixty years old, he married the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, and she bore him Segub." 
1Chronicles2:22 Segub was the father of Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead." 
1Chronicles2:23 But Geshur and Aram took from them Havvoth-jair, with Kenath and its villages, sixty towns. All these were the descendants of Machir the father of Gilead." 
1Chronicles2:24 After Hezron died in Caleb-ephrathah, Abiah, Hezron's wife, bore to him Ashhur the father of Tekoa." 
1Chronicles2:25 The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron: Ram the firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah." 
1Chronicles2:26 Jerahmeel had another wife, named Atarah; she was the mother of Onam." 
1Chronicles2:27 The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker." 
1Chronicles2:28 The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. 
1Chronicles2:29 Abishur's wife was Abihail; she bore him Ahban and Molid. 
1Chronicles2:30 The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. Seled died childless. 
1Chronicles2:31 The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai. 
1Chronicles2:32 The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan. Jether died childless. 
1Chronicles2:33 The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel. 
1Chronicles2:34 Sheshan had no sons,only daughters. But Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha." 
1Chronicles2:35 Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant as wife; she bore him Attai. 
1Chronicles2:36 Attai was the father of Nathan, and Nathan of Zabad." 
1Chronicles2:37 Zabad was the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal of Obed." 
1Chronicles2:38 Obed was the father of Jehu, and Jehu of Azariah." 
1Chronicles2:39 Azariah was the father of Helez, and Helez of Eleasah." 
1Chronicles2:40 Eleasah was the father of Sismai, and Sismai of Shallum." 
1Chronicles2:41 Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah of Elishama." 
1Chronicles2:42 The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn was the father of Ziph; and his son Mareshah [he was] the father of Hebron. 
1Chronicles2:43 The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema." 
1Chronicles2:44 Shema was the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem was the father of Shammai." 
1Chronicles2:45 The son of Shammai was Maon; Maon's son was Beth-zur. 
1Chronicles2:46 Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; Haran was the father of Gazez." 
1Chronicles2:47 The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph." 
1Chronicles2:48 Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah, and also" 
1Chronicles2:49 Shaaph the father of Madmannah and Sheva the father of Machbenah and of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
1Chronicles2:50 These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim," 
1Chronicles2:51 Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader." 
1Chronicles2:52 Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had [other] descendants: Haroeh, half [of the inhabitants] of Menuhoth [in Judah]," 
1Chronicles2:53 And the families of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. From these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites." 
1Chronicles2:54 The descendants of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, [and] the Zorites," 
1Chronicles2:55 And the families of scribes who dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab." 
1Chronicles3:1 THESE SONS of David were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; second, Daniel (Chileab), of Abigail the Carmelitess;" 
1Chronicles3:1 THESE SONS of David were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; second, Daniel (Chileab), of Abigail the Carmelitess;" 
1Chronicles3:2 Third, Absalom the son of Maacah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; fourth, Adonijah, of Haggith;" 
1Chronicles3:3 Fifth, Shephatiah, of Abital; sixth, Ithream, of his wife Eglah." 
1Chronicles3:4 These six were born to David in Hebron; there he reigned seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years." 
1Chronicles3:5 These were born to [David] in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,four of Bathshua (Bathsheba) daughter of Ammiel (Eliam);" 
1Chronicles3:6 Then Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet," 
1Chronicles3:7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles3:8 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet,nine in all." 
1Chronicles3:9 These were all the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines. And Tamar was their sister." 
1Chronicles3:10 Solomon's descendants [omitting nonreigning offspring] were: his son Rehoboam. Abijah was his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son," 
1Chronicles3:11 Jehoram (Joram) his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son," 
1Chronicles3:12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son," 
1Chronicles3:13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son," 
1Chronicles3:14 Amon his son, Josiah his son." 
1Chronicles3:15 The descendants of Josiah: firstborn, Johanan; second, Jehoiakim; third, Zedekiah; fourth, Shallum." 
1Chronicles3:16 The descendants of Jehoiakim: Jehoiachin (Jeconiah) his son, Zedekiah his son." 
1Chronicles3:17 The descendants of Jehoiachin the captive: Shealtiel his son," 
1Chronicles3:18 Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah." 
1Chronicles3:19 The sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam, Hananiah. And Shelomith was their sister;" 
1Chronicles3:20 And Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, [and] Jushab-hesed,five [the sons of Meshullam?]." 
1Chronicles3:21 The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, whose son was Rephaiah, his son Arnan, his son Obadiah, his son Shecaniah." 
1Chronicles3:21 The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, whose son was Rephaiah, his son Arnan, his son Obadiah, his son Shecaniah." 
1Chronicles3:22 The son of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. The sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat,six in all." 
1Chronicles3:23 The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam,three in all." 
1Chronicles3:24 The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani,seven in all." 
1Chronicles4:1 THE SONS of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal." 
1Chronicles4:2 Reaiah son of Shobal was the father of Jahath, and Jahath of Ahumai and Lahad. These were the families of the Zorathites." 
1Chronicles4:3 These were the sons of [Hur] the father of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash. And their sister was Hazzelelponi." 
1Chronicles4:4 And Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the eldest of Ephrathah (Ephrath), the father of Bethlehem." 
1Chronicles4:5 Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah." 
1Chronicles4:6 Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were Naarah's sons." 
1Chronicles4:7 The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan." 
1Chronicles4:8 Koz was the father of Anub, Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel son of Harum." 
1Chronicles4:9 Jabez was honorable above his brothers; but his mother named him Jabez [sorrow maker], saying, Because I bore him in pain." 
1Chronicles4:10 Jabez cried to the God of Israel, saying, Oh, that You would bless me and enlarge my border, and that Your hand might be with me, and You would keep me from evil so it might not hurt me! And God granted his request." 
1Chronicles4:11 Chelub the brother of Shuhah was the father of Mehir, the father of Eshton." 
1Chronicles4:12 Eshton was the father of Beth-rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah." 
1Chronicles4:13 The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel: Hathath [and Meonothai]. 
1Chronicles4:14 Meonothai was father of Ophrah, and Seraiah of Joab the father of Ge-harashim [the Valley of Craftsmen], so named because they were craftsmen." 
1Chronicles4:15 The sons of Caleb [Joshua's companion] son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. The son of Elah: Kenaz." 
1Chronicles4:15 The sons of Caleb [Joshua's companion] son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam. The son of Elah: Kenaz." 
1Chronicles4:16 The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel." 
1Chronicles4:17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. These are the sons of Bithiah daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married: she bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa." 
1Chronicles4:17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. These are the sons of Bithiah daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married: she bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa." 
1Chronicles4:18 And Mered's Jewish wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah." 
1Chronicles4:19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were: the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maacathite." 
1Chronicles4:20 The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-zoheth." 
1Chronicles4:21 The sons of Shelah son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of the linen workers at Beth-ashbea," 
1Chronicles4:22 And Jokim, the men of Cozeba, Joash, and Saraph, who ruled in Moab, and returned to [Bethlehem]. These are ancient matters." 
1Chronicles4:23 These were the potters and those who dwelt among plantations and hedges at Netaim and Gederah; there they dwelt with the king for his work. 
1Chronicles4:24 The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul;" 
1Chronicles4:25 Shallum was his [Shaul's] son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son." 
1Chronicles4:26 The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son." 
1Chronicles4:27 Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his brothers did not have many children; neither did all their family multiply like the children of Judah." 
1Chronicles4:28 They dwelt at Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-shual," 
1Chronicles4:29 Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad," 
1Chronicles4:30 Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag," 
1Chronicles4:31 Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susim, Beth-biri, and at Shaaraim. These were their towns [and villages] until the reign of David." 
1Chronicles4:32 There were also Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan,five towns," 
1Chronicles4:33 And all their villages that were round about these towns, as far as Baal[-ath-beer]. These were their settlements, and they had their genealogical record." 
1Chronicles4:34 Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah son of Amaziah," 
1Chronicles4:35 Joel, Jehu son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel," 
1Chronicles4:35 Joel, Jehu son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel," 
1Chronicles4:36 Also Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah," 
1Chronicles4:37 Ziza son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah." 
1Chronicles4:38 These mentioned by name were princes in their families; and their fathers' houses increased greatly [so they needed more room]. 
1Chronicles4:39 And they journeyed to the entrance of Gedor to the east side of the valley to seek pasture for their flocks. 
1Chronicles4:40 And they found rich, good pasture, and the [cleared] land was wide, quiet, and peaceful, because people of Ham had dwelt there of old [and had left it a better place for those who came after them]." 
1Chronicles4:41 And these registered by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah and destroyed their tents and the Meunim [foreigners] who were found there and exterminated them to this day, and they settled in their stead, because there was pasture for their flocks." 
1Chronicles4:42 And some of them from the sons of Simeon, 500 men, went to Mount Seir, having for their leaders Pelatiah, and Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi." 
1Chronicles4:43 They destroyed the remnant of the Amalekites who had escaped, and they have dwelt there to this day." 
1Chronicles5:1 NOW [we come to] the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel. For [Reuben] was the eldest, but because he polluted his father's couch [with Bilhah his father's concubine] his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph [favorite] son of Israel; so the genealogy is not to be reckoned according to the birthright. [Gen. 35:22; 48:15-22; 49:3, 4.]" 
1Chronicles5:2 Judah prevailed above his brethren, and from him came the prince and leader [and eventually the Messiah]; yet the birthright was Joseph's. [Gen. 49:10; Mic. 5:2.]" 
1Chronicles5:3 The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi." 
1Chronicles5:4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son," 
1Chronicles5:4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son," 
1Chronicles5:5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son," 
1Chronicles5:5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son," 
1Chronicles5:6 Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away captive; he was a prince of the Reubenites." 
1Chronicles5:7 And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief Jeiel, and Zechariah," 
1Chronicles5:7 And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief Jeiel, and Zechariah," 
1Chronicles5:8 Bela son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer as far as Nebo and Baal-meon." 
1Chronicles5:8 Bela son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer as far as Nebo and Baal-meon." 
1Chronicles5:9 Eastward [Bela] inhabited the land as far as the entrance into the desert this [west] side of the river Euphrates, because their cattle had multiplied in the land of Gilead." 
1Chronicles5:10 In the days of [King] Saul they made war with the Hagrites or Ishmaelites, who fell by their hands; they dwelt in their tents in all the land east of Gilead." 
1Chronicles5:11 The children of Gad who dwelt opposite them in the land of Bashan, as far as Salecah:" 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel the chief, Shapham the next, Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan." 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel the chief, Shapham the next, Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan." 
1Chronicles5:13 Their kinsmen of the houses of their fathers: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia, and Eber,seven in all." 
1Chronicles5:14 These were the sons of Abihail son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz." 
1Chronicles5:15 Ahi son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was chief in their fathers' houses." 
1Chronicles5:16 They dwelt in Gilead, in Bashan and in its towns, and in all the suburbs and pasturelands of Sharon to their limits." 
1Chronicles5:17 All these were enrolled by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam [II] king of Israel. 
1Chronicles5:18 The sons of Reuben, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh,valiant men able to bear buckler and sword and to shoot with bow and skillful in war,were 44,760 able and ready to go forth to war." 
1Chronicles5:19 And [these Israelites, on the east side of the Jordan River] made war with the Hagrites [a tribe of northern Arabia], Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab." 
1Chronicles5:20 They were given help against them, and the Hagrites or Ishmaelites were delivered into their hands, and all who were allied with them, for they cried to God in the battle; and He granted their entreaty, because they relied on, clung to, and trusted in Him." 
1Chronicles5:21 And [these Israelites] took away their adversaries' herds: of their camels 50,000, and of sheep 250,000, and of donkeys 2,000, and of the lives of men 100,000." 
1Chronicles5:22 For a great number fell mortally wounded, because the battle was God's. And [these Israelites] dwelt in their territory until the captivity [by Assyria more than five centuries later]. [II Kings 15:29.]" 
1Chronicles5:23 And the people of the half-tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land; their settlements spread from Bashan to Baal-hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon." 
1Chronicles5:24 And these were the heads of their fathers' houses: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of strength of mind and spirit [enabling them to encounter danger with firmness and personal bravery], famous men, and heads of the houses of their fathers." 
1Chronicles5:24 And these were the heads of their fathers' houses: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of strength of mind and spirit [enabling them to encounter danger with firmness and personal bravery], famous men, and heads of the houses of their fathers." 
1Chronicles5:25 They transgressed against the God of their fathers and played the harlot [by unfaithfulness to their own God and running] after the gods of the native peoples, whom God had destroyed before them." 
1Chronicles5:26 So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, [that is,] the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, the Reubenites, Gadites, and half-tribe of Manasseh and brought them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and the river Gozan, to this day." 
1Chronicles6:1 THE SONS of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:2 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:3 The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons also of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles6:4 Eleazar was the father of Phinehas, Phinehas of Abishua." 
1Chronicles6:5 Abishua was the father of Bukki, and Bukki of Uzzi," 
1Chronicles6:6 Uzzi of Zerahiah, and Zerahiah of Meraioth," 
1Chronicles6:7 Meraioth of Amariah, and Amariah of Ahitub," 
1Chronicles6:8 Ahitub of Zadok, and Zadok of Ahimaaz," 
1Chronicles6:9 Ahimaaz of Azariah, and Azariah of Johanan," 
1Chronicles6:10 Johanan of Azariah, who was priest in the temple Solomon built in Jerusalem," 
1Chronicles6:11 Azariah of Amariah, and Amariah of Ahitub," 
1Chronicles6:12 Ahitub of Zadok, and Zadok of Shallum," 
1Chronicles6:13 Shallum of Hilkiah, and Hilkiah of Azariah," 
1Chronicles6:14 Azariah of Seraiah, and Seraiah of Jehozadak;" 
1Chronicles6:15 Jehozadak went into captivity when the Lord sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
1Chronicles6:16 The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:17 These are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 
1Chronicles6:18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers: 
1Chronicles6:20 Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son," 
1Chronicles6:21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son." 
1Chronicles6:22 The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son," 
1Chronicles6:23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son," 
1Chronicles6:24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son." 
1Chronicles6:25 And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai, Ahimoth," 
1Chronicles6:26 Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son," 
1Chronicles6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah [Samuel's father] his son." 
1Chronicles6:28 The sons of Samuel: the firstborn [Joel] and Abijah. 
1Chronicles6:28 The sons of Samuel: the firstborn [Joel] and Abijah. 
1Chronicles6:29 The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son," 
1Chronicles6:30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son." 
1Chronicles6:31 These David put over the service of song in the house of the Lord after the ark of the covenant rested there [after being taken by the Philistines and later placed in the house of Abinadab, where it remained for nearly 100 years during the rest of Samuel's judgeship and Saul's entire reign and into David's reign]." 
1Chronicles6:32 They ministered before the tabernacle of the Tent of Meeting with singing until Solomon had built the Lord's house in Jerusalem, performing their service in due order." 
1Chronicles6:33 These and their sons served of the Kohathites: Heman, the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel [the great prophet and judge]," 
1Chronicles6:33 These and their sons served of the Kohathites: Heman, the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel [the great prophet and judge]," 
1Chronicles6:34 The son of Elkanah [III], the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah," 
1Chronicles6:35 The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah [II], the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai," 
1Chronicles6:36 The son of Elkanah [I], the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah," 
1Chronicles6:36 The son of Elkanah [I], the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah," 
1Chronicles6:36 The son of Elkanah [I], the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah," 
1Chronicles6:37 The son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah," 
1Chronicles6:38 The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel (Jacob)." 
1Chronicles6:39 Heman's [tribal] brother Asaph stood at his right hand: Asaph son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea," 
1Chronicles6:40 The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah," 
1Chronicles6:41 The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah," 
1Chronicles6:42 The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei," 
1Chronicles6:43 The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi." 
1Chronicles6:44 Their kinsmen the sons of Merari stood at the left hand: Ethan son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch," 
1Chronicles6:45 The son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah," 
1Chronicles6:46 The son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer," 
1Chronicles6:47 The son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi." 
1Chronicles6:48 And their brethren the Levites [who were not descended from Aaron] were appointed for all other kinds of service of the tabernacle of the house of God. 
1Chronicles6:49 But [the line of] Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of burnt offering and the altar of incense, ministering for all the work of the Holy of Holies, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses, God's servant, had commanded." 
1Chronicles6:50 The sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son," 
1Chronicles6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son," 
1Chronicles6:52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son," 
1Chronicles6:53 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son." 
1Chronicles6:54 Their dwelling places are according to their settlements within their borders: to the sons of Aaron of the families of the Kohathites, for theirs was the [first] lot,[Josh. 21:10.]" 
1Chronicles6:55 To them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding suburbs. 
1Chronicles6:56 But the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb son of Jephunneh. 
1Chronicles6:57 To the sons of Aaron they gave the city of refuge, Hebron; also Libnah with its pasturelands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasturelands, [Josh. 21:13.]" 
1Chronicles6:58 Hilen with its pasturelands, Debir with its pasturelands," 
1Chronicles6:59 Ashan with its pasturelands, and Beth-shemesh with its pasturelands." 
1Chronicles6:60 And out of the tribe of Benjamin: Geba, Alemeth, and Anathoth, with their pasturelands. All their cities according to their families were thirteen." 
1Chronicles6:61 And to the rest of the Kohathites ten cities were given by lot out of the family of the tribe [of Ephraim and of Dan and], of the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh. [Josh. 21:5.]" 
1Chronicles6:62 To the Gershomites, according to their families, [were allotted] thirteen cities out of the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and Manasseh in Bashan." 
1Chronicles6:63 To the Merarites were given by lot, according to their families, twelve cities out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun." 
1Chronicles6:64 And the Israelites gave to the Levites these cities with their pasturelands. 
1Chronicles6:65 They gave by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin these cities whose names are mentioned." 
1Chronicles6:66 Some of the families of the Kohathites had cities in the allotted territory out of the tribe of Ephraim. 
1Chronicles6:67 And [the Ephraimites] gave to [the Levites] the city of refuge, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim; also Gezer, [both] with their suburbs and pasturelands;" 
1Chronicles6:68 Jokmeam, Beth-horon," 
1Chronicles6:69 Aijalon, and Gath-rimmon, with their suburbs and pasturelands;" 
1Chronicles6:70 And out of the half-tribe of Manasseh [these cities], with their suburbs and pasturelands: Aner and Bileam, for the rest of the families of the sons of Kohath." 
1Chronicles6:71 To the Gershomites were given out of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan and Ashtaroth, with their suburbs and pasturelands;" 
1Chronicles6:72 Out of the tribe of Issachar, with their suburbs and pasturelands: Kedesh, Daberath," 
1Chronicles6:73 Ramoth, and Anem;" 
1Chronicles6:74 Out of the tribe of Asher, with their suburbs and pasturelands: Mashal, Abdon," 
1Chronicles6:75 Hukok, and Rehob;" 
1Chronicles6:76 And out of the tribe of Naphtali, with their suburbs and pasturelands: Kedesh in Galilee, Hammon, and Kiriathaim." 
1Chronicles6:77 To the rest of the Merarites were given from the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono and Tabor, with their suburbs and pasturelands;" 
1Chronicles6:78 On the other side of the Jordan, on the east side by Jericho, the Levites were given out of the tribe of Reuben [these cities], with their suburbs and pasturelands: Bezer in the wilderness, Jahzah," 
1Chronicles6:79 Kedemoth, and Mephaath;" 
1Chronicles6:80 Out of the tribe of Gad [these cities], with their suburbs and pasturelands: Ramoth in Gilead, Mahanaim," 
1Chronicles6:81 Heshbon, and Jazer." 
1Chronicles7:1 THE SONS of Issachar were: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron,four in all." 
1Chronicles7:2 The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, Shemuel (Samuel),heads of their fathers' houses, descendants of Tola. They were mighty men of valor in their generations; their number in David's days was 22,600." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah,five, all of them chief men." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah,five, all of them chief men." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah,five, all of them chief men." 
1Chronicles7:4 And with them by their generations according to their fathers' houses were units of the army for war, 36,000, for they had many wives and children [with them]." 
1Chronicles7:5 Their kinsmen from all the families of Issachar, mighty men of valor, registered by genealogies, were in all 87,000." 
1Chronicles7:6 The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, and Jediael,three in all." 
1Chronicles7:7 The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri,five, heads of the houses of their fathers, mighty men of valor. By their genealogies they numbered 22,034." 
1Chronicles7:8 The sons of Becher: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth, all sons of Becher." 
1Chronicles7:9 The number of them by their genealogies by generations, as heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors, was 20,200." 
1Chronicles7:10 The son of Jediael: Bilhan. The sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar." 
1Chronicles7:11 All these were the sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valor, 17,200, able and fit for service in war." 
1Chronicles7:12 Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir, and Hushim the son of Aher." 
1Chronicles7:13 The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, whose [grandmother] was Bilhah." 
1Chronicles7:14 The sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, whom his concubine the Aramitess bore; she bore Machir the father of Gilead." 
1Chronicles7:15 And Machir took as wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim; her name was Maacah. The name of a second [and later descendant, the first being Gilead], was Zelophehad; and Zelophehad had daughters [only]. [Num. 27:1-7.]" 
1Chronicles7:16 Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son; she called his name Peresh. The name of his brother was Sheresh; his sons were Ulam and Rakem. 
1Chronicles7:17 The son of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead son of Machir, the son of Manasseh." 
1Chronicles7:18 His sister Hammolecheth bore Ishbod, Abiezer, and Mahlah." 
1Chronicles7:19 The sons of Shemida were: Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam." 
1Chronicles7:20 The sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath [I] his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath [II] his son," 
1Chronicles7:21 Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son. [During Ephraim's lifetime, his sons] Ezer and Elead were slain by men of Gath born in the land, who had come down to steal the cattle [of the Ephraimites, probably before the Israelites left Egypt]." 
1Chronicles7:22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him." 
1Chronicles7:23 Then his wife conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Beriah [in evil], because calamity had befallen his house." 
1Chronicles7:24 [Beriah's] daughter was Sheerah, who built both Lower and Upper Beth-horon, and also Uzzen-sheerah." 
1Chronicles7:25 Rephah was his son, and Resheph [his son]; Resheph's son was Telah, Tahan his son," 
1Chronicles7:26 Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son," 
1Chronicles7:27 Nun his son, Joshua [Moses' successor] his son." 
1Chronicles7:27 Nun his son, Joshua [Moses' successor] his son." 
1Chronicles7:28 And their possessions and settlements were Bethel and its towns, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, and Shechem, and as far as Azzah (Gaza) with all their towns," 
1Chronicles7:29 And along the borders of the Manassites, Beth-shean, Taanach, Megiddo, Dor, with all their towns. In these dwelt the sons of Joseph son of Israel." 
1Chronicles7:30 The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah; and Serah their sister." 
1Chronicles7:31 The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel, who was the father of Birzaith." 
1Chronicles7:32 Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and Shua their sister." 
1Chronicles7:33 The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These were the sons of Japhlet." 
1Chronicles7:34 The sons of Shemer (Shomer) his brother: Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram." 
1Chronicles7:35 The sons of his brother Helem (Hotham): Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal." 
1Chronicles7:36 The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah," 
1Chronicles7:37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera." 
1Chronicles7:38 The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispa, and Ara." 
1Chronicles7:39 The sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia." 
1Chronicles7:40 All these were offspring of Asher, heads of their fathers' houses, approved men, mighty warriors, chief of the princes. Their number enrolled by genealogies for service in war, was 26,000 men." 
1Chronicles8:1 BENJAMIN WAS the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third," 
1Chronicles8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth." 
1Chronicles8:3 Bela's sons were: Addar, Gera, Abihud," 
1Chronicles8:4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah," 
1Chronicles8:5 Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram." 
1Chronicles8:6 The sons of Ehud: These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba; they were exiled to Manahath: 
1Chronicles8:7 Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, that is, Heglam, who was the father of Uzza and Ahihud." 
1Chronicles8:8 Shaharaim had sons in the country of Moab after he had [divorced and] sent away Hushim and Baara his wives. 
1Chronicles8:9 And by Hodesh his [Moabitish] wife he was the father of Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam," 
1Chronicles8:9 And by Hodesh his [Moabitish] wife he was the father of Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam," 
1Chronicles8:10 Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses." 
1Chronicles8:11 By Hushim [divorced] he had had sons: Abitub and Elpaal. 
1Chronicles8:12 The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod with its towns," 
1Chronicles8:13 And Beriah and Shema, who were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath," 
1Chronicles8:14 And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth." 
1Chronicles8:15 The sons of Beriah: Zebadiah, Arad, Eder," 
1Chronicles8:16 Michael, Ishpah, and Joha." 
1Chronicles8:17 Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber," 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal." 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal." 
1Chronicles8:19 Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi," 
1Chronicles8:20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:21 Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei." 
1Chronicles8:22 Ishpan, Eber, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:23 Abdon, Zichri, Hanan," 
1Chronicles8:24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah," 
1Chronicles8:25 Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak." 
1Chronicles8:26 Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah," 
1Chronicles8:27 Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham." 
1Chronicles8:28 These were heads of the fathers' houses, according to their generations, chief men. These dwelt in Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles8:29 At Gibeon dwelt [Jeiel] the father of Gibeon, whose wife's name was Maacah." 
1Chronicles8:30 His firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab," 
1Chronicles8:31 Gedor, Ahio, Zecher," 
1Chronicles8:32 And Mikloth the father of Shimeah. These dwelt together opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles8:33 Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish of [King] Saul the father of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal (Ish-bosheth)." 
1Chronicles8:34 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal (Mephibosheth) the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles8:34 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal (Mephibosheth) the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles8:35 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:35 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:36 Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; Zimri was the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles8:37 Moza was the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son." 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles8:39 The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jehush the second, Eliphelet the third." 
1Chronicles8:40 The sons of Ulam were mighty warriors, archers, with many sons and grandsons,150 in all. All these were Benjamites." 
1Chronicles9:1 SO ALL Israel was enrolled by genealogies; and they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was carried away captive to Babylon for their unfaithfulness to God. 
1Chronicles9:2 Now the first [of the returned exiles] to dwell again in their possessions in the cities of Israel were the priests, Levites, and the Nethinim [the temple servants]." 
1Chronicles9:3 In Jerusalem dwelt some of the people of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh:" 
1Chronicles9:4 Uthai son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the sons of Pharez son of Judah." 
1Chronicles9:5 Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn and his sons. 
1Chronicles9:6 Of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their kinsmen, 690." 
1Chronicles9:7 Of the Benjamites: Sallu son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah;" 
1Chronicles9:8 Ibneiah son of Jeroham; Elah son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; and Meshullam son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;" 
1Chronicles9:9 And their kinsmen, according to their generations, 956. All these were heads of fathers' houses according to their fathers' houses." 
1Chronicles9:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah; Jehoiarib; Jachin; 
1Chronicles9:11 Azariah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the chief officer of God's house;" 
1Chronicles9:12 And Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah; Massai son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;" 
1Chronicles9:13 And their kinsmen, heads of their fathers' houses, 1,760,very able men for the work of the service of the house of God." 
1Chronicles9:14 Of the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;" 
1Chronicles9:15 And Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal, and Mattaniah son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;" 
1Chronicles9:16 Obadiah son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites [near Jerusalem]." 
1Chronicles9:16 Obadiah son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites [near Jerusalem]." 
1Chronicles9:17 The gatekeepers were: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their kinsmen, Shallum being the chief" 
1Chronicles9:18 Who hitherto was assigned to the king's east side gate. They were the gatekeepers of the camp of the Levites. 
1Chronicles9:19 Shallum son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his kinsmen of his father's house, the Korahites, were in charge of the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the Tent, as their fathers had been in charge of the camp of the Lord, keepers of the entrance." 
1Chronicles9:20 Phinehas son of Eleazar was ruler over them in times past, and the Lord was with him." 
1Chronicles9:21 Zechariah son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. 
1Chronicles9:21 Zechariah son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. 
1Chronicles9:22 All these chosen to be keepers at the thresholds were 212. These were enrolled by their genealogies in their villages [around Jerusalem], these men [whose grandfathers] David and Samuel the seer had established to their office of trust." 
1Chronicles9:23 So they and their sons had oversight of the gates of the Lord's house, that is, the house of the tabernacle, by wards." 
1Chronicles9:24 The gatekeepers were stationed on the four sides [of the house of the Lord],on the east, west, north, and south." 
1Chronicles9:25 Their brethren in their villages were to come in every seven days to be with them. 
1Chronicles9:26 But these Levites, the four chief gatekeepers, were in charge of the chambers and treasuries of the house of God." 
1Chronicles9:27 They lodged round about God's house, for the duty [of watching] was theirs, as well as the opening of the house every morning." 
1Chronicles9:28 Some of them had charge of the serving utensils, being required to count them when they brought them in or took them out." 
1Chronicles9:29 Some of them also were appointed over the furniture and over all the sacred utensils, as well as over the fine flour, wine, oil, frankincense, and spices." 
1Chronicles9:30 Other sons of the priests prepared the ointment of spices. 
1Chronicles9:31 Mattithiah, one of the Levites, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was responsible for the things baked in pans." 
1Chronicles9:32 Of their Kohathite kinsmen, some were to prepare the showbread every Sabbath." 
1Chronicles9:33 These are the singers, heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites, dwelling in the temple chambers, free from other service because they were on duty day and night." 
1Chronicles9:34 These were heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, according to their generations, chief men, who lived in Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles9:35 In Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah," 
1Chronicles9:36 His firstborn son Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab," 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:38 Mikloth was the father of Shimeam. They also dwelt beside their brethren, opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles9:39 Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of [King] Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal." 
1Chronicles9:40 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal (Mephibosheth); Merib-baal was the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles9:40 The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal (Mephibosheth); Merib-baal was the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles9:41 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:41 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:42 Ahaz was the father of Jarah, and Jarah of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; Zimri was the father of Moza," 
1Chronicles9:43 Moza of Binea; Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son." 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles10:1 NOW THE Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before them and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 
1Chronicles10:2 And the Philistines followed close after Saul and his sons and overtook them, and the Philistines slew Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul." 
1Chronicles10:3 And the battle raged about Saul, and the archers found and wounded him." 
1Chronicles10:4 Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse and make sport of me. But his armor-bearer would not, for he was terrified. So Saul took his own sword and fell on it." 
1Chronicles10:5 When his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died." 
1Chronicles10:6 So Saul died; he and his three sons and all his house died together. 
1Chronicles10:7 And when all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that the army had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them." 
1Chronicles10:8 The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa." 
1Chronicles10:9 They stripped [Saul] and took his head and his armor, and sent [them] round about in Philistia to carry the news to their idols and to the people." 
1Chronicles10:10 And they put [Saul's] armor in the house of their gods and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon. 
1Chronicles10:11 When all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul," 
1Chronicles10:12 All the brave men arose, took away the bodies of Saul and his sons, brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh; then they fasted seven days. [I Sam. 31:12.]" 
1Chronicles10:13 So Saul died for his trespass against the Lord [in sparing Amalek], for his unfaithfulness in not keeping God's word, and also for consulting [a medium with] a spirit of the dead to inquire pleadingly of it," 
1Chronicles10:14 And inquired not so of the Lord [in earnest penitence]. Therefore the Lord slew him and turned the kingdom over to David son of Jesse. [I Sam. 28:6.] 
1Chronicles11:1 THEN [after the death of Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, who ruled over eleven tribes of Israel for two troubled years after Saul's death] all Israel gathered at Hebron and said to David, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. [II Sam. 2:8-10.]" 
1Chronicles11:2 In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel; and the Lord your God said to you, You shall be shepherd of My people Israel, and you shall be prince and leader over [them]." 
1Chronicles11:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them there before the Lord, and they anointed [him] king over Israel, according to the word of the Lord through Samuel. [I Sam. 16:1, 12, 13.]" 
1Chronicles11:4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, that is Jebus, where the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were." 
1Chronicles11:5 Then the Jebusites said to David, You shall not come in here! But David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the City of David." 
1Chronicles11:6 And David said, Whoever smites the Jebusites first shall be chief and commander. Joab son of Zeruiah [David's half sister] went up first, and so he was made chief." 
1Chronicles11:7 David dwelt in the stronghold; so it was called the City of David. 
1Chronicles11:8 He built the city from the Millo [a fortification] on around; and Joab repaired and revived the rest of the [old Jebusite] city. 
1Chronicles11:9 And David became greater and greater, for the Lord of hosts was with him." 
1Chronicles11:10 Now these are the chiefs of David's mighty men, who strongly supported him in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the Lord concerning Israel." 
1Chronicles11:11 And this is the number [thirty, and list] of David's mighty men: Jashobeam, a Hachmonite, the chief of the Thirty [captains]. He lifted up his spear against 300, whom he slew at one time." 
1Chronicles11:12 Next to him in rank was Eleazar son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the three mighty men." 
1Chronicles11:13 He was with David at Pas-dammim [where David had long before slain Goliath], and there the Philistines were gathered for battle, where there was a plot of ground full of barley or lentils; and the men [of Israel] fled before the Philistines." 
1Chronicles11:14 And Eleazar [one of the Three] stood in the midst of that plot and defended it and slew the Philistines [until his hand was weary, and his hand cleaved to the sword], and the Lord saved by a great victory and deliverance. [II Sam. 23:9, 10.]" 
1Chronicles11:15 Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam, and the army of the Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim." 
1Chronicles11:16 David was then in the stronghold, and the Philistines' garrison was in Bethlehem." 
1Chronicles11:17 And David longingly said, Oh, that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem which is by the gate!" 
1Chronicles11:18 Then the Three [mighty men] broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem which was by the gate and brought it to David. But David would not drink it; he poured it out to the Lord," 
1Chronicles11:19 And said, My God forbid that I should do this thing. Shall I drink the blood of these men who have put their lives in jeopardy? For at the risk of their lives they brought it. So he would not drink it. These things did these three mighty men." 
1Chronicles11:20 Abishai the brother of Joab was chief of the Three. For he lifted up his spear against 300 and slew them, and was named among the Three." 
1Chronicles11:21 Of the Three [in the second rank] he was more renowned than the two, and became their captain; however, he attained not to the first three." 
1Chronicles11:22 Benaiah son of Jehoiada, whose father was a valiant man of Kabzeel, had done mighty deeds. He slew the two sons of Ariel of Moab. Also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in time of snow." 
1Chronicles11:23 He slew an Egyptian also, a man of great stature, five cubits tall. The Egyptian held a spear like a weaver's beam, and [Benaiah] went to him with a staff and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and slew him with the man's own spear." 
1Chronicles11:24 These things did Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and won a name beside the three mighty men." 
1Chronicles11:25 He was renowned among the Thirty, but he did not attain to the rank of the first three. David put him over his guard and council." 
1Chronicles11:26 Also the mighty men of the armies were: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo of Bethlehem," 
1Chronicles11:27 Shammoth of Harod, Helez the Pelonite," 
1Chronicles11:28 Ira son of Ikkesh of Tekoa, Abiezer of Anathoth," 
1Chronicles11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite," 
1Chronicles11:30 Maharai of Netophah, Heled son of Baanah of Netophah," 
1Chronicles11:31 Ithai son of Ribai of Gibeah of the Benjamites, Benaiah of Pirathon," 
1Chronicles11:32 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite," 
1Chronicles11:33 Azmaveth of Baharum, Eliahba of Shaalbon," 
1Chronicles11:34 The sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shagee the Hararite," 
1Chronicles11:35 Ahiam son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur," 
1Chronicles11:36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite," 
1Chronicles11:37 Hezro of Carmel, Naarai son of Ezbai," 
1Chronicles11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri," 
1Chronicles11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri," 
1Chronicles11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah [David's half sister]," 
1Chronicles11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite," 
1Chronicles11:41 Uriah the Hittite [Bathsheba's husband], Zabad son of Ahlai," 
1Chronicles11:42 Adina son of Shiza, a leader of the Reubenites, and thirty heroes with him," 
1Chronicles11:43 Hanan son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite," 
1Chronicles11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite," 
1Chronicles11:45 Jediael son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite," 
1Chronicles11:46 Eliel the Mahavite, Jeribai and Joshaviah sons of Elnaam, Ithmah the Moabite," 
1Chronicles11:47 Eliel, Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite." 
1Chronicles12:1 THESE ARE the ones who came to David at Ziklag, while he yet concealed himself because of Saul son of Kish; they were among the mighty men, his helpers in war." 
1Chronicles12:2 They were bowmen and could use the right hand or the left to sling stones or shoot arrows from the bow; they were of Saul's kinsmen of Benjamin. 
1Chronicles12:3 The chief was Ahiezer and then Joash the sons of Shemaah of Gibeah; Jeziel and Pelet the sons of Azmaveth; Beracah, and Jehu of Anathoth," 
1Chronicles12:4 Ishmaiah of Gibeon, a mighty man among the Thirty and a [leader] over them; Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad of Gederah," 
1Chronicles12:4 Ishmaiah of Gibeon, a mighty man among the Thirty and a [leader] over them; Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad of Gederah," 
1Chronicles12:5 Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite;" 
1Chronicles12:6 Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites;" 
1Chronicles12:7 Joelah and Zebadiah the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
1Chronicles12:7 Joelah and Zebadiah the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
1Chronicles12:8 Of the Gadites there went over to David to the stronghold in the wilderness men of might, men trained for war who could handle shield and spear, whose faces were like the faces of lions, and who were swift as gazelles on the mountains:" 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer the chief, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third," 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer the chief, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third," 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth," 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth," 
1Chronicles12:11 Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh," 
1Chronicles12:12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth," 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh." 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh." 
1Chronicles12:14 These Gadites were officers of the army. The lesser was equal to and over a hundred, and the greater equal to and over a thousand." 
1Chronicles12:15 These are the men who went over the Jordan in the first month when it had overflowed all its banks, and put to flight all those in the valleys, east and west." 
1Chronicles12:16 There came some of the men of Benjamin and Judah to the stronghold to David. 
1Chronicles12:17 David went out to meet them and said to them, If you have come peaceably to me to help me, my heart shall be knit to you; but if you have come to betray me to my adversaries, although there is no violence or wrong in my hands, may the God of our fathers look upon and rebuke you." 
1Chronicles12:18 Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains, and he said, Yours we are, David, and on your side, you son of Jesse! Peace, peace be to you, and peace be to your helpers, for your God helps you. Then David received them and made them officers of his troops." 
1Chronicles12:19 Some of the men of Manasseh deserted to David when he came with the Philistines for the battle against Saul. But [David's] men did not actually fight with them, for the lords of the Philistines, upon advisement, sent him away, saying, He will desert to his master Saul at the risk of our heads. [I Sam. 29:2-9.]" 
1Chronicles12:20 As David went to Ziklag, there deserted to him of Manasseh: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, chiefs of thousands in Manasseh." 
1Chronicles12:21 They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all mighty men of courage, and [all seven] became commanders in [his] army." 
1Chronicles12:22 For at that time day by day men kept coming to David to help him, until there was a great army, like the army of God." 
1Chronicles12:23 These are the numbers of the armed divisions who came to David at Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of the Lord:" 
1Chronicles12:24 Those of Judah, who bore shield and spear, were 6,800 armed for war;" 
1Chronicles12:25 Those of Simeon, mighty and brave warriors, 7,100;" 
1Chronicles12:26 Those of Levi, 4,600," 
1Chronicles12:27 Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronite [priests], and with him were 3,700," 
1Chronicles12:28 And Zadok, a young man mighty in valor, and twenty-two captains from his own father's house;" 
1Chronicles12:29 Of the Benjamites, the kindred of [King] Saul, 3,000,hitherto the majority of them had kept their allegiance [to Saul] and the charge of the house of Saul;" 
1Chronicles12:30 Of the Ephraimites, 20,800, mighty in valor, famous in their fathers' houses;" 
1Chronicles12:31 Of the half-tribe of Manasseh, 18,000, who were mentioned by name to come and make David king;" 
1Chronicles12:32 And of Issachar, men who had understanding of the times to know what Israel ought to do, 200 chiefs; and all their kinsmen were under their command;" 
1Chronicles12:33 Of Zebulun, 50,000 experienced troops, fitted out with all kinds of weapons and instruments of war that could order and set the battle in array, men not of double purpose but stable and trustworthy." 
1Chronicles12:34 Of Naphtali, 1,000 captains, and with them 37,000 [of the rank and file armed] with shield and spear;" 
1Chronicles12:35 Of Dan, 28,600, men who could set the battle in array;" 
1Chronicles12:36 Of Asher, men able to go forth to battle, fit for active service, 40,000;" 
1Chronicles12:37 On the other [the east] side of the Jordan River, of Reuben and Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh, 120,000 men, armed with all the weapons and instruments of war." 
1Chronicles12:38 All these, being men of war arrayed in battle order, came with a perfect and sincere heart to Hebron to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest also of Israel were of one mind to make David king." 
1Chronicles12:39 And they were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brethren had prepared for them." 
1Chronicles12:40 Also those who were near them from as far as Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali brought food on donkeys, camels, mules, and oxen, abundant supplies of meal, cakes of figs, bunches of raisins, wine, oil, oxen, and sheep, for there was joy in Israel." 
1Chronicles13:1 DAVID CONSULTED the captains of thousands and hundreds, even with every leader." 
1Chronicles13:2 And David said to all the assembly of Israel, If it seems good to you and if it is of the Lord our God, let us send abroad everywhere to our brethren who are left in all the land of Israel, and with them to the priests and Levites in their cities that have suburbs and pasturelands, that they may gather together with us." 
1Chronicles13:3 And let us bring again the ark of our God to us, for we did not seek it during the days of Saul." 
1Chronicles13:4 And all the assembly agreed to do so, for the thing seemed right in the eyes of all the people." 
1Chronicles13:5 So David gathered all Israel together, from the Shihor, the brook of Egypt [that marked the southeast border of Palestine], to the entrance of Hemath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim." 
1Chronicles13:6 And David and all Israel went up to Baalah, that is, to Kiriath-jearim which belonged to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God the Lord, which is called by the name of Him Who sits [enthroned] above the cherubim." 
1Chronicles13:7 And they carried the ark of God on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio [his brother] drove the cart." 
1Chronicles13:8 And David and all Israel merrily celebrated before God with all their might, with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and cymbals and trumpets." 
1Chronicles13:9 And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzza put out his hand to steady the ark, for the oxen [that were drawing the cart] stumbled and were restive." 
1Chronicles13:10 And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzza, and He smote him because he touched the ark; and there he died before God. [Num. 4:15.]" 
1Chronicles13:11 And David was offended because the Lord had broken forth upon Uzza; that place to this day is called Perez-uzza [the breaking forth upon Uzza]. 
1Chronicles13:12 And David was afraid of God that day, and he said, How can I bring the ark of God home to me?" 
1Chronicles13:13 So David did not bring the ark home to the City of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite [a Levitical porter born in Gath-rimmon]. [Josh. 21:20, 24; I Chron. 15:24.]" 
1Chronicles13:14 And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-edom in his house three months. And the Lord blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that he had. 
1Chronicles14:1 AND HIRAM king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar timbers, with masons and carpenters, to build him a house." 
1Chronicles14:2 And David perceived that the Lord had established and confirmed him as king over Israel, for his kingdom was exalted highly for His people Israel's sake." 
1Chronicles14:3 And David took more wives to Jerusalem, and [he] became the father of more sons and daughters." 
1Chronicles14:4 Now these are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
1Chronicles14:5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet," 
1Chronicles14:6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles14:7 Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet." 
1Chronicles14:8 And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, [they] all went up to seek David. And [he] heard of it and went out before them." 
1Chronicles14:9 Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the Valley of Rephaim. 
1Chronicles14:10 David asked God, Shall I go up against the Philistines? And will You deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said, Go up, and I will deliver them into your hand." 
1Chronicles14:11 So [Israel] came up to Baal-perazim, and David smote [the Philistines] there. Then David said, God has broken my enemies by my hand, like the bursting forth of waters. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal-perazim [Lord of breaking through]." 
1Chronicles14:12 [The Philistines] left their gods there; David commanded and they were burned. 
1Chronicles14:13 And the Philistines again made a raid in the valley. 
1Chronicles14:14 And David inquired again of God, and God said to him, Do not go up after them; turn away from them and come [around] upon them over opposite the mulberry trees." 
1Chronicles14:15 And when you hear a sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry or balsam trees, then go out to battle, for God has gone out before you to smite the Philistine host." 
1Chronicles14:16 So David did as God commanded him, and they smote the army of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer." 
1Chronicles14:17 And the fame of David went out into all lands, and the Lord brought the fear of him upon all nations." 
1Chronicles15:1 DAVID MADE for himself houses in the City of David, and he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it." 
1Chronicles15:2 Then David said, None should carry the ark of God but the Levites, for the Lord chose them to carry the ark of God and to minister to Him forever." 
1Chronicles15:3 And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the Lord to its place, which he had prepared for it." 
1Chronicles15:4 And David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites: 
1Chronicles15:5 Of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, with 120 kinsmen;" 
1Chronicles15:6 Of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, with 220 kinsmen;" 
1Chronicles15:7 Of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, with 130 kinsmen;" 
1Chronicles15:7 Of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, with 130 kinsmen;" 
1Chronicles15:8 Of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, with 200 kinsmen;" 
1Chronicles15:9 Of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, with 80 kinsmen;" 
1Chronicles15:10 Of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, with 112 kinsmen." 
1Chronicles15:11 And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites,Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab," 
1Chronicles15:11 And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites,Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab," 
1Chronicles15:12 And said to them, You are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites; sanctify yourselves, both you and your brethren, that you may bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel, to the place that I have prepared for it." 
1Chronicles15:13 For because you bore it not [as God directed] at the first, the Lord our God broke forth upon us,because we did not seek Him in the way He ordained. [Num. 1:50; I Chron. 13:7-10.]" 
1Chronicles15:14 So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
1Chronicles15:15 The Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles, as Moses commanded by the word of the Lord." 
1Chronicles15:16 David told the chief Levites to appoint their brethren the singers with instruments of music,harps, lyres, and cymbals,to play loudly and lift up their voices with joy." 
1Chronicles15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel; and of his brethren, Asaph son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan son of Kushaiah;" 
1Chronicles15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel; and of his brethren, Asaph son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan son of Kushaiah;" 
1Chronicles15:18 And with them their brethren of the second class: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and also the gatekeepers, Obed-edom and Jeiel." 
1Chronicles15:18 And with them their brethren of the second class: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and also the gatekeepers, Obed-edom and Jeiel." 
1Chronicles15:19 So the singers Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound bronze cymbals;" 
1Chronicles15:20 Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah were to play harps [resembling guitars] set to Alamoth [probably the treble voice];" 
1Chronicles15:20 Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah were to play harps [resembling guitars] set to Alamoth [probably the treble voice];" 
1Chronicles15:21 Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah were to lead with lyres set to Sheminith [the bass voice]." 
1Chronicles15:22 Chenaniah, leader of the Levites in singing, was put in charge of carrying the ark and lifting up song. He instructed about these matters because he was skilled and able." 
1Chronicles15:23 Berechiah and Elkanah were gatekeepers for the ark. 
1Chronicles15:24 Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer the priests were to blow the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obed-edom and Jehiah (Jeiel) were also gatekeepers for the ark." 
1Chronicles15:24 Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer the priests were to blow the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obed-edom and Jehiah (Jeiel) were also gatekeepers for the ark." 
1Chronicles15:25 So David, the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the house of Obed-edom with joy." 
1Chronicles15:26 And when God helped the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord [with a safe start], they offered seven bulls and seven rams." 
1Chronicles15:27 David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as were the Levites who bore the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah, director of the music of the singers. David also wore an ephod [a priestly upper garment] of linen." 
1Chronicles15:28 Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouting, sound of the cornet, trumpets, and cymbals, sounding aloud with harps and lyres." 
1Chronicles15:29 As the ark of the covenant of the Lord came to the City of David, Michal [David's wife] daughter of Saul, looking from a window, saw King David leaping as in sport, and she despised him in her heart." 
1Chronicles16:1 SO THEY brought the ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God." 
1Chronicles16:2 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord." 
1Chronicles16:3 And he distributed to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins." 
1Chronicles16:4 He appointed Levites to minister before the ark of the Lord and to celebrate [by calling to mind], thanking and praising the Lord, the God of Israel:" 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph was the chief, next to him Zechariah, Jeiel (Jaaziel), Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, and Benaiah, Obed-edom and Jeiel, who were to play harps and lyres; Asaph was to sound the cymbals;" 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph was the chief, next to him Zechariah, Jeiel (Jaaziel), Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, and Benaiah, Obed-edom and Jeiel, who were to play harps and lyres; Asaph was to sound the cymbals;" 
1Chronicles16:6 Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were to blow trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 
1Chronicles16:7 Then on that day David first entrusted to Asaph and his brethren the singing of thanks to the Lord [as their chief task]: 
1Chronicles16:8 O give thanks to the Lord, call on His name; make known His doings among the peoples!" 
1Chronicles16:9 Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; meditate on and talk of all His wondrous works and devoutly praise them!" 
1Chronicles16:10 Glory in His holy name; let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the Lord! 
1Chronicles16:11 Seek the Lord and His strength; yearn for and seek His face and to be in His presence continually! 
1Chronicles16:12 [Earnestly] remember the marvelous deeds which He has done, His miracles, and the judgments He uttered [as in Egypt]," 
1Chronicles16:13 O you offspring of [Abraham and] of Israel His servants, you children of Jacob, His chosen ones!" 
1Chronicles16:14 He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
1Chronicles16:15 Be mindful of His covenant forever, the promise which He commanded and established to a thousand generations," 
1Chronicles16:16 The covenant which He made with Abraham, and His sworn promise to Isaac." 
1Chronicles16:17 He confirmed it as a statute to Jacob, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant, [Gen. 35:11, 12.]" 
1Chronicles16:18 Saying, To you I will give the land of Canaan, the measured portion of your possession and inheritance." 
1Chronicles16:19 When they were but few, even a very few, and only temporary residents and strangers in it," 
1Chronicles16:20 When they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people," 
1Chronicles16:21 He allowed no man to do them wrong; yes, He reproved kings for their sakes, [Gen. 12:17; 20:3; Exod. 7:15-18.]" 
1Chronicles16:22 Saying, Touch not My anointed, and do My prophets no harm. [Gen. 20:7.]" 
1Chronicles16:23 Sing to the Lord, all the earth; show forth from day to day His salvation." 
1Chronicles16:24 Declare His glory among the nations, His marvelous works among all peoples." 
1Chronicles16:25 For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised; He also is to be [reverently] feared above all so-called gods. 
1Chronicles16:26 For all the gods of the people are [lifeless] idols, but the Lord made the heavens." 
1Chronicles16:27 Honor and majesty are [found] in His presence; strength and joy are [found] in His sanctuary. 
1Chronicles16:28 Ascribe to the Lord, you families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength," 
1Chronicles16:29 Ascribe to the Lord the glory due His name. Bring an offering and come before Him; worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness and in holy array. 
1Chronicles16:30 Tremble and reverently fear before Him, all the earth's peoples; the world also shall be established, so it cannot be moved." 
1Chronicles16:31 Let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice; and let men say among the nations, The Lord reigns!" 
1Chronicles16:32 Let the sea roar, and all the things that fill it; let the fields rejoice, and all that is in them." 
1Chronicles16:33 Then shall the trees of the wood sing out for joy before the Lord, for He comes to judge and govern the earth." 
1Chronicles16:34 O give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever!" 
1Chronicles16:35 And say, Save us, O God of our salvation; gather us together and deliver us from the nations, that we may give thanks to Your holy name and glory in Your praise." 
1Chronicles16:36 Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, forever and ever! And all the people said Amen! and praised the Lord." 
1Chronicles16:37 So David left Asaph and his brethren before the ark of the covenant of the Lord to minister before the ark continually, as each day's work required," 
1Chronicles16:38 And Obed-edom with [his] sixty-eight kinsmen. Also Obed-edom son of Jeduthun, and Hosah, were to be gatekeepers." 
1Chronicles16:39 And David left Zadok the priest and his brethren the priests before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place that was at Gibeon 
1Chronicles16:40 To offer burnt offerings to the Lord upon the altar of burnt offering continually, morning and evening, and to do all that is written in the Law of the Lord which He commanded Israel." 
1Chronicles16:41 With them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest who were chosen and expressly named to give thanks to the Lord, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever." 
1Chronicles16:42 With them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those who should sound aloud, and instruments for accompanying the songs of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were to be at the gate." 
1Chronicles16:43 Then all the people departed, each man to his house, and David returned home to bless his household." 
1Chronicles17:1 AS DAVID sat in his house, he said to Nathan the prophet, Behold, I dwell in a house of cedars, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord remains under tent curtains." 
1Chronicles17:2 Then Nathan said to David, Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you." 
1Chronicles17:3 And that same night the word of God came to Nathan, saying," 
1Chronicles17:4 Go and tell David My servant, Thus says the Lord: You shall not build Me a house to dwell in," 
1Chronicles17:5 For I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel from Egypt until this day; but I have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to another." 
1Chronicles17:6 Wherever I have walked with all Israel, did I say a word to any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to feed My people, saying, Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?" 
1Chronicles17:7 Now therefore, thus shall you say to My servant David, Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you from the sheepfold, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over My people Israel." 
1Chronicles17:8 And I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you, and I will make your name like the name of the great ones of the earth." 
1Chronicles17:9 Also I will appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first," 
1Chronicles17:10 Since the time that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel. Moreover, I will subdue all your enemies. Furthermore, I foretell to you that the Lord will build you a house (a blessed posterity)." 
1Chronicles17:11 And it shall come to pass that when your days are fulfilled to go to be with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom." 
1Chronicles17:12 He shall build Me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. [I Chron. 28:7.]" 
1Chronicles17:13 I will be his father, and he shall be My son; and I will not take My mercy and steadfast love away from him, as I took it from him [King Saul] who was before you. [Heb. 1:5, 6.]" 
1Chronicles17:14 But I will settle him (Him) in My house and in My kingdom forever; and his (His) throne shall be established forevermore. [Isa. 9:7.] 
1Chronicles17:15 According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David." 
1Chronicles17:16 And David the king went in and sat before the Lord and said, Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house and family, that You have brought me up to this?" 
1Chronicles17:17 And yet this was a small thing in Your eyes, O God; for You have spoken of Your servant's house for a great while to come, and have regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O Lord God!" 
1Chronicles17:18 What more can David say to You for thus honoring Your servant? For You know Your servant. 
1Chronicles17:19 O Lord, for Your servant's sake and in accord with Your own heart, You have wrought all this greatness, to make known all these great things." 
1Chronicles17:20 O Lord, there is none like You, nor is there any God beside You, according to all that our ears have heard." 
1Chronicles17:21 And what nation on the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to Himself as a people, making Yourself a name by great and terrible things, by driving out nations from before Your people, whom You redeemed out of Egypt?" 
1Chronicles17:22 You made Your people Israel Your own forever, and You, Lord, became their God." 
1Chronicles17:23 Therefore now, Lord, let the word which You have spoken concerning Your servant and his house be established forever, and do as You have said." 
1Chronicles17:24 Let it be established and let Your name [and the character that name denotes] be magnified forever, saying, The Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, is Israel's God; and the house of David Your servant will be established before You." 
1Chronicles17:25 For You, O my God, have told Your servant that You will build for him a house (a blessed posterity); therefore Your servant has found courage and confidence to pray before You." 
1Chronicles17:26 And now, Lord, You are God, and have promised this good thing to Your servant." 
1Chronicles17:27 Therefore may it please You to bless the house (posterity) of Your servant, that it may continue before You forever; for what You bless, O Lord, is blessed forever." 
1Chronicles18:1 AFTER THIS, David smote and subdued the Philistines, and took Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines." 
1Chronicles18:2 He smote Moab, and the Moabites became David's servants and brought tribute." 
1Chronicles18:3 Also David defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah toward Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates." 
1Chronicles18:4 David took from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers. David also hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved enough for 100 chariots." 
1Chronicles18:5 When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians 22,000 men." 
1Chronicles18:6 Then David put garrisons in Syria, [whose capital was] Damascus; the Syrians became David's servants and brought tribute. Thus the Lord preserved and gave victory to David wherever he went." 
1Chronicles18:7 David took the shields of gold that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles18:8 Likewise from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David brought very much bronze, with which Solomon later made the bronze laver, the pillars, and the vessels of bronze." 
1Chronicles18:9 When Tou king of Hamath heard how David had defeated all the hosts of Hadadezer king of Zobah," 
1Chronicles18:10 He sent Hadoram his son to King David to salute him and to congratulate him because he had fought and defeated Hadadezer, for Hadadezer had had wars with Tou. And Hadoram brought with him all manner of vessels of gold, silver, and bronze." 
1Chronicles18:11 King David dedicated them also to the Lord, with the silver and the gold he brought from all these nations: Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and the Amalekites." 
1Chronicles18:12 Also Abishai son of Zeruiah slew 18,000 of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt." 
1Chronicles18:13 He put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants. Thus the Lord preserved and gave victory to David wherever he went." 
1Chronicles18:14 So David reigned over all Israel and executed judgment and justice among all his people. 
1Chronicles18:15 Joab son of Zeruiah [David's half sister] was over the army; and Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was the recorder; 
1Chronicles18:16 Zadok son of Ahitub and Abimelech son of Abiathar were the priests; and Shavsha was secretary [of state]; 
1Chronicles18:17 Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over [David's bodyguards] the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chiefs next to the king. 
1Chronicles19:1 AFTER THIS, Nahash king of the Ammonites died, and his son reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles19:2 David said, I will show kindness to Hanun son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me. And David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father's death. So the servants of David came into the land of the Ammonites to comfort Hanun." 
1Chronicles19:3 But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun, Do you think that David has sent comforters to you because he honors your father? Have his servants not come to you to search, to overthrow, and to spy out the land?" 
1Chronicles19:4 Therefore Hanun took David's servants, shaved them, cut off their garments in the middle near their buttocks, and sent them away." 
1Chronicles19:5 When David was told how the men were served, he sent to meet them, for [they] were greatly shamed and embarrassed. The king said, Stay in Jericho until your beards are grown, and then return." 
1Chronicles19:6 When the Ammonites saw that they had made themselves hateful to David, Hanun and [his people] sent 1,000 talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia and Aram-maacah and Zobah." 
1Chronicles19:7 So they hired 32,000 chariots, and the king of Maacah and his troops, who came and pitched before Medeba. And the Ammonites gathered from their cities and came to battle." 
1Chronicles19:8 When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of mighty men." 
1Chronicles19:9 And the Ammonites came out and lined up in battle array before the entrance of the city [Medeba], and the kings who had come were by themselves in the open country." 
1Chronicles19:10 When Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose from all the choice men of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians." 
1Chronicles19:11 The rest of the soldiers he delivered to Abishai his brother, and they were arrayed against the Ammonites." 
1Chronicles19:12 And he said, If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you help me; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, I will help you." 
1Chronicles19:13 Be of good courage and let us behave ourselves courageously for our people and for the cities of our God; and may the Lord do what is good in His sight. 
1Chronicles19:14 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians for battle, and they fled before him." 
1Chronicles19:15 And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, Joab's brother, and entered into the city [Medeba]. Then Joab came to Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles19:16 When the Syrians saw that they were defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and drew forth the Syrians who were beyond the Euphrates River, with Shophach the commander of the army of Hadadezer at their head." 
1Chronicles19:17 It was told to David, and he gathered all Israel and crossed the Jordan and drew up his army against them. So when David set the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him." 
1Chronicles19:18 But the Syrians fled before Israel, and David slew of the Syrians 7,000 men in chariots and 40,000 foot soldiers, and killed Shophach the commander of the army." 
1Chronicles19:19 When the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with David and became subject to him; nor would the Syrians any longer help the Ammonites." 
1Chronicles20:1 AFTER THE end of the year, when kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the army and devastated the land of the Ammonites, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. Joab smote Rabbah and overthrew it." 
1Chronicles20:2 David took their king's crown from off his head and found that it weighed a talent of gold and that precious stones were in it. It was set upon David's head. He brought also very much spoil out of the city of Rabbah. 
1Chronicles20:3 He brought out the people who were in it and set them at cutting with saws, iron wedges, and axes. So David dealt with all the Ammonite cities. And David and all the army returned to Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles20:4 After this, there arose war at Gezer with the Philistines; then Sibbecai the Hushathite slew Sippai, of the sons of the giant, and they were subdued." 
1Chronicles20:5 There was war again with the Philistines, and Elhanan son of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam." 
1Chronicles20:6 And again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great stature who had twenty-four fingers and toes, six on each hand and each foot. He also was born to the giant." 
1Chronicles20:7 And when he reproached and defied Israel, Jonathan son of Shimea, David's brother, slew him." 
1Chronicles20:8 These were born to the giant [clan] in Gath, and they fell by the hands of David and his servants." 
1Chronicles21:1 SATAN [an adversary] stood up against Israel and stirred up David to number Israel. 
1Chronicles21:2 David said to Joab and the rulers of the people, Go, number Israel from Beersheba to Dan, and bring me the total, that I may know it." 
1Chronicles21:3 And Joab answered, May the Lord multiply His people a hundred times! But, my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? Why then does my lord require this? Why will he bring guilt upon Israel?" 
1Chronicles21:4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab. So Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles21:5 Joab gave the total number of the people to David. And all of Israel were 1,100,000 who drew the sword, and of Judah 470,000 who drew the sword." 
1Chronicles21:6 But Levi and Benjamin he did not include among them, for the king's order was detestable to Joab." 
1Chronicles21:7 And God was displeased with this [reliance on human resources], and He smote Israel." 
1Chronicles21:8 And David said to God, I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing. But now, I beseech You, take away the hateful wickedness of Your servant; for I have done very foolishly." 
1Chronicles21:9 And the Lord said to Gad, David's seer," 
1Chronicles21:10 Go and tell David, Thus says the Lord: I offer you three things; choose one of them, that I may do it to you." 
1Chronicles21:11 So Gad came to David and said to him, Thus says the Lord: Take which one you will:" 
1Chronicles21:12 Either three years of famine, or three months of devastation before your foes, while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or else three days of the sword of the Lord and pestilence in the land, and the angel of the Lord destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore, consider what answer I shall return to Him Who sent me." 
1Chronicles21:13 And David said to Gad, I am in great and distressing perplexity; let me fall, I pray you, into the hands of the Lord, for very great and many are His mercies; but let me not fall into the hands of man." 
1Chronicles21:14 So the Lord sent a pestilence upon Israel, and there fell of Israel 70,000 men." 
1Chronicles21:15 God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it, and as he was destroying, the Lord beheld, and He regretted and relented of the evil and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay your hand. And the angel of the Lord stood by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite." 
1Chronicles21:16 David lifted up his eyes and saw the angel of the Lord standing between earth and the heavens, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces." 
1Chronicles21:17 And David said to God, Is it not I who commanded the people to be numbered? It is I who has sinned and done evil indeed; but as for these sheep, what have they done? Let Your hand, I pray You, O Lord my God, be on me and on my father's house, but not on Your people, that they should be plagued." 
1Chronicles21:18 Then the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David that David should go up and set up an altar to the Lord in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
1Chronicles21:19 So David went up at Gad's word, which he spoke in the name of the Lord." 
1Chronicles21:20 Now Ornan was threshing wheat, and he turned back and saw the angel; and his four sons hid themselves." 
1Chronicles21:21 And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw him, and went out from the threshing floor and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground." 
1Chronicles21:22 Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the site of this threshing floor, that I may build an altar on it to the Lord. You shall charge me the full price for it, that the plague may be averted from the people." 
1Chronicles21:23 Ornan said to David, Take it; and let my lord the king do what is good in his eyes. I give you the oxen also for burnt offerings and the threshing sledges for wood and the wheat for the meal offering. I give it all." 
1Chronicles21:24 And King David said to Ornan, No, but I will pay the full price. I will not take what is yours for the Lord, nor offer burnt offerings which cost me nothing." 
1Chronicles21:25 So David gave to Ornan for the site 600 shekels of gold by weight. 
1Chronicles21:26 And David built there an altar to the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings and called upon the Lord; and He answered him by fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offering. 
1Chronicles21:27 Then the Lord commanded the [avenging] angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath." 
1Chronicles21:28 When David saw that the Lord had answered him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there." 
1Chronicles21:29 For the tabernacle of the Lord, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering were at that time in the high place at Gibeon." 
1Chronicles21:30 But David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the Lord." 
1Chronicles22:1 THEN DAVID said, Here shall be the house of the Lord God, and here the altar of the burnt offering for Israel." 
1Chronicles22:2 David commanded to gather together the strangers who were in the land of Israel, and he set stonecutters to hew out stones to build the house of God." 
1Chronicles22:3 David prepared iron in abundance for nails for the doors of the gates and for the couplings, and bronze in abundance without weighing," 
1Chronicles22:4 Also cedar trees without number, for the Sidonians and they of Tyre brought much cedar timber to David." 
1Chronicles22:5 David said, Solomon my son is young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the Lord must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and glory throughout all lands. I will therefore make preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death." 
1Chronicles22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel." 
1Chronicles22:7 David said to Solomon, My son, it was in my heart to build a house to the Name and [for the symbol of] the Presence of the Lord my God." 
1Chronicles22:8 But the word of the Lord came to me, saying, You have shed much blood and have waged great wars; you shall not build a house to My Name, because you have shed much blood on the earth in My sight." 
1Chronicles22:9 Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of peace. I will give him rest from all his enemies round about; for his name shall be Solomon [peaceable], and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days. [II Sam. 12:24, 25.]" 
1Chronicles22:10 He shall build a house for My Name and [the symbol of My] Presence. He shall be My son, and I will be his father; and I will establish his royal throne over Israel forever." 
1Chronicles22:11 Now, my son, the Lord be with and prosper you in building the house of the Lord your God, as He has spoken concerning you." 
1Chronicles22:12 Only may the Lord give you wisdom and understanding as you are put in charge of Israel, that you may keep the law of the Lord your God." 
1Chronicles22:13 Then you will prosper if you are careful to keep and fulfill the statutes and ordinances with which the Lord charged Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and of good courage. Dread not and fear not; be not dismayed. 
1Chronicles22:14 In my affliction and trouble I have provided for the house of the Lord 100,000 talents of gold, 1,000,000 talents of silver, and bronze and iron without weighing. I have also provided timber and stone; you must add to them." 
1Chronicles22:15 You have workmen in abundance: hewers, workers of stone and timber, and all kinds of craftsmen without number, skillful in doing every kind of work" 
1Chronicles22:16 With gold, silver, bronze, and iron. So arise and be doing, and the Lord be with you!" 
1Chronicles22:17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying," 
1Chronicles22:18 Is not the Lord your God with you? And has He not given you peace on every side? For He has given the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before the Lord and His people." 
1Chronicles22:19 Now set your mind and heart to seek (inquire of and require as your vital necessity) the Lord your God. Arise and build the sanctuary of the Lord God, so that the ark of the covenant of the Lord and the holy vessels of God may be brought into the house built to the Name and renown of the Lord." 
1Chronicles23:1 WHEN DAVID was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel." 
1Chronicles23:2 David assembled all the leaders of Israel, with the priests and Levites." 
1Chronicles23:3 The Levites thirty years old and upward numbered, man by man, 38,000," 
1Chronicles23:4 Of whom 24,000 were to oversee the work of the house of the Lord and 6,000 were to be officers and judges." 
1Chronicles23:5 And, said David, 4,000 shall be gatekeepers and 4,000 are to praise the Lord with the instruments which I made for praise." 
1Chronicles23:6 And David organized them in sections according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
1Chronicles23:7 Of the Gershonites: Ladan (Libni) and Shimei. 
1Chronicles23:8 The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, Zetham, and Joel,three in all." 
1Chronicles23:8 The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, Zetham, and Joel,three in all." 
1Chronicles23:9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran,three in all. These were the heads of the fathers' houses of Ladan." 
1Chronicles23:10 And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina (Zizah), Jeush, and Beriah. Of these four sons of Shimei," 
1Chronicles23:11 Jahath was chief and Zizah the second, but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons [not enough for a father's house or clan]; so they were counted together as one father's house." 
1Chronicles23:12 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel,four in all." 
1Chronicles23:13 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Aaron was set apart to sanctify him as most holy and to consecrate the most holy things, that he and his sons forever might burn incense before the Lord, minister to Him, and bless in His name [and the character which that name denotes] forever." 
1Chronicles23:14 But the sons of Moses the man of God were named among the tribe of Levi. 
1Chronicles23:15 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 
1Chronicles23:16 The son of Gershom: Shebuel the chief. 
1Chronicles23:17 The son of Eliezer: Rehabiah the chief. Eliezer had no other sons, but Rehabiah's sons were very many." 
1Chronicles23:18 The sons of Izhar: Shelomith was the chief. 
1Chronicles23:19 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth." 
1Chronicles23:20 The sons of Uzziel: Micah the first and Isshiah the second. 
1Chronicles23:20 The sons of Uzziel: Micah the first and Isshiah the second. 
1Chronicles23:21 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
1Chronicles23:22 Eleazar died and had no sons, but daughters only, and their kinsmen, sons of Kish, took them as wives." 
1Chronicles23:23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth,three in all." 
1Chronicles23:24 These were the Levites by their fathers' houses, the heads of the fathers' houses of those registered, according to the number of names of the individuals who were the servants of the house of the Lord, from twenty years old and upward." 
1Chronicles23:25 For David said, The Lord, the God of Israel has given peace and rest to His people, and He dwells in Jerusalem forever." 
1Chronicles23:26 So the Levites no more have need to carry the tabernacle and all its vessels for its service. 
1Chronicles23:27 For by the last words and acts of David, these were the number of the Levites from twenty years old and above." 
1Chronicles23:28 But their duty should be to wait on [the priests] the sons of Aaron in the service of the house of the Lord, caring for the courts, the chambers, the cleansing of all holy things, and any work of the service of God's house," 
1Chronicles23:29 For the showbread also, and for the fine flour for a cereal offering, whether of unleavened wafers or of what is baked on the griddle or soaked [in oil], and for all measuring of amount and size [as the Law of Moses required]." 
1Chronicles23:30 They are also to stand every morning to thank and praise the Lord, and likewise at evening," 
1Chronicles23:31 And to assist in offering all burnt sacrifices to the Lord on Sabbaths, New Moon festivals, and set feast days by number according to the ordinance concerning them, continually before the Lord." 
1Chronicles23:32 So they shall keep charge of the Tent of Meeting and the Holy Place and shall attend to the sons of Aaron their kinsmen, for the service of the house of the Lord." 
1Chronicles24:1 THE COURSES or divisions of the priests, the sons of Aaron, were these: The sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no children; therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office. 
1Chronicles24:3 And David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided and distributed them according to their assigned duties." 
1Chronicles24:4 Since there were more chief men found among the sons of Eleazar [because of the misfortunes of Eli, and Saul's slaughter of the priests at Nob] than among the sons of Ithamar, they were divided thus: sixteen heads of fathers' houses of the sons of Eleazar and eight of the sons of Ithamar according to their fathers' houses." 
1Chronicles24:5 Thus were they divided by lot, one group with the other, for there were chiefs of the sanctuary and chiefs of God [high priests] drawn both from the sons of Eleazar and from the sons of Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:6 Shemaiah the scribe, son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded them in the presence of the king, the princes, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech son of Abiathar [the priest who escaped being killed at Nob by Saul and fled to David], and the heads of the fathers' houses of the priests and Levites,one father's house being taken alternately for Eleazar and one for Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:7 The lots fell, the first one to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah," 
1Chronicles24:8 The third to Harim, the fourth to Se-orim," 
1Chronicles24:9 The fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin," 
1Chronicles24:10 The seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah," 
1Chronicles24:11 The ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah," 
1Chronicles24:12 The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim," 
1Chronicles24:13 The thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebe-ab," 
1Chronicles24:14 The fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer," 
1Chronicles24:15 The seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez," 
1Chronicles24:16 The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel," 
1Chronicles24:17 The twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul," 
1Chronicles24:18 The twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah." 
1Chronicles24:19 This was their order for coming on duty to serve in the house of the Lord, according to the procedure ordered for them by their [forefather] Aaron, as the Lord, the God of Israel, had commanded him." 
1Chronicles24:20 As for the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram: Shubael; of the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. 
1Chronicles24:21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah: Isshiah the chief. 
1Chronicles24:22 Of the Izharites: Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath. 
1Chronicles24:23 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth." 
1Chronicles24:24 The son of Uzziel: Micah; of the sons of Micah: Shamir. 
1Chronicles24:24 The son of Uzziel: Micah; of the sons of Micah: Shamir. 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah: Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah: Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah: Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:26 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The son of Jaaziah: Beno. 
1Chronicles24:27 The sons of Merari: by Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri." 
1Chronicles24:28 Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons." 
1Chronicles24:29 Of Kish: the son of Kish: Jerahmeel. 
1Chronicles24:30 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites, according to their fathers' houses." 
1Chronicles24:31 These likewise cast lots, as did their kinsmen the sons of Aaron, in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers' houses of the priests and Levites,the head of each father's house and his younger brother alike." 
1Chronicles25:1 ALSO DAVID and the chiefs of the host [of the Lord] separated to the [temple] service some of the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, who should prophesy [being inspired] with lyres, harps, and cymbals. The list of the musicians according to their service was:" 
1Chronicles25:2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied (witnessed and testified under divine inspiration) in keeping with the king's order." 
1Chronicles25:3 Of the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six in all, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, who witnessed and prophesied under divine inspiration with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the Lord." 
1Chronicles25:4 Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth." 
1Chronicles25:5 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer [his mediator] in the words and things of God to exalt Him; for God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters, [Ps. 68:25.]" 
1Chronicles25:6 All of whom were [in the choir] under the direction of their father for song in the house of the Lord, with cymbals, harps, and lyres, for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order of the king." 
1Chronicles25:7 So the number of them [who led the remainder of the 4,000], with their kinsmen who were specially trained in songs for the Lord, all who were talented singers, was 288. [I Chron. 23:5.]" 
1Chronicles25:8 [The musicians] cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and scholar alike." 
1Chronicles25:9 The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him, his brethren and his sons, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:10 The third to Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:11 The fourth to Izri, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:12 The fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:13 The sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:14 The seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:15 The eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:16 The ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:17 The tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:18 The eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:19 The twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:20 The thirteenth to Shubael, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:21 The fourteenth to Mattithiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:23 The sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:24 The seventeenth of Joshbekashah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:25 The eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:26 The nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:27 The twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:28 The twenty-first to Hothir, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:29 The twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:30 The twenty-third to Mahazioth, his sons and his brethren, twelve;" 
1Chronicles25:31 The twenty-fourth to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brethren, twelve." 
1Chronicles26:1 FOR THE divisions of the gatekeepers: Of the Korahites was: Meshelemiah son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph." 
1Chronicles26:2 And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth," 
1Chronicles26:2 And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth," 
1Chronicles26:3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh." 
1Chronicles26:4 Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth," 
1Chronicles26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him." 
1Chronicles26:6 Also to Shemaiah his son were sons born, who were rulers in their fathers' houses, for they were mighty men of ability and courage." 
1Chronicles26:7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brethren were strong and able men, Elihu and Semachiah." 
1Chronicles26:8 All these were sons of Obed-edom [in whose house the ark was kept], with their sons and brethren, strong and able men for the service,sixty-two in all. [I Chron. 13:13, 14.]" 
1Chronicles26:9 Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong and able men,eighteen in all." 
1Chronicles26:10 Also Hosah, of the sons of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief (he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him chief)," 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen in all." 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen in all." 
1Chronicles26:12 Of these were the divisions of the gatekeepers, even of the chief men, having duties, as did their brethren, to minister in the house of the Lord." 
1Chronicles26:13 And they cast lots by fathers' houses, small and great alike, for every gate." 
1Chronicles26:14 The lot for the east fell to Shelemiah. They cast lots also for Zechariah his son, a wise counselor, and his lot came out for the north." 
1Chronicles26:14 The lot for the east fell to Shelemiah. They cast lots also for Zechariah his son, a wise counselor, and his lot came out for the north." 
1Chronicles26:15 To Obed-edom it came out for the south, and to his sons the storehouse was allotted." 
1Chronicles26:16 To Shuppim and Hosah the lot fell for the west, by the refuse gate that goes into the ascending highway, post opposite post." 
1Chronicles26:17 On the east were six Levites, on the north four a day, on the south four a day, and two by two at the storehouse." 
1Chronicles26:18 At the colonnade on the west side [of the outer court of the temple], there were four at the road and two at the colonnade." 
1Chronicles26:19 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers among the Korahites and the sons of Merari. 
1Chronicles26:20 Of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries of the dedicated gifts." 
1Chronicles26:21 The sons of Ladan, the descendants of Gershon through Ladan, the heads of families of Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli," 
1Chronicles26:22 The sons of Jehieli, Zetham and Joel his brother, who were over the treasuries of the house of the Lord." 
1Chronicles26:22 The sons of Jehieli, Zetham and Joel his brother, who were over the treasuries of the house of the Lord." 
1Chronicles26:23 Of the Amramites, Izharites, Hebronites, and Uzzielites:" 
1Chronicles26:24 Shebuel son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler over the treasuries." 
1Chronicles26:25 His brethren from Eliezer were his son Rehabiah, his son Jeshaiah, his son Joram, his son Zichri, and his son Shelomoth." 
1Chronicles26:26 This Shelomoth and his brethren were over all the treasuries of the dedicated gifts, which King David, the heads of the fathers' houses, the officers over thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army had dedicated." 
1Chronicles26:27 From spoil won in battles they dedicated gifts to maintain the house of the Lord. 
1Chronicles26:28 Also all that Samuel the seer, Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner, and Joab son of Zeruiah had dedicated, and whatever anyone had dedicated, it was in the charge of Shelomoth and his brethren." 
1Chronicles26:29 Of the Izharites: Chenaniah and his sons were appointed to outside duties for Israel, as officers and judges." 
1Chronicles26:30 Of the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his brethren, men of courage and ability, 1,700 in all, were officers over Israel on the west side of the Jordan in all the Lord's business and the king's service." 
1Chronicles26:31 Of the Hebronites: Jerijah was the chief, according to their generations by fathers' houses. In the fortieth year of David's reign a search was made, and men of great courage and ability were found among them at Jazer in Gilead." 
1Chronicles26:32 Jerijah's kinsmen, men of courage and ability, were 2,700 heads of fathers' houses; King David made them overseers of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for everything pertaining to God and for the affairs of the king." 
1Chronicles27:1 THIS IS the list of the Israelites, the heads of fathers' houses, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all matters of the divisions that came and went, month by month throughout the year, each division numbering 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:2 Over the first division for the first month was Jashobeam son of Zabdiel. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:3 He was descended from Perez and was chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month. 
1Chronicles27:4 Over the division for the second month was Dodai the Ahohite; and of his division Mikloth was the chief officer. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:5 The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah son of Jehoiada the priest, as chief. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:6 This is the Benaiah who was a mighty man of the Thirty and over the Thirty; and in his division was Ammizabad his son. 
1Chronicles27:7 The fourth, for the fourth month, Asahel brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:8 The fifth, for the fifth month, Shamhuth the Izrahite. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:9 The sixth, for the sixth month, Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:10 The seventh, for the seventh month, Helez the Pelonite, of the Ephraimites. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:11 The eighth, for the eighth month, Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarahites. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:12 The ninth, for the ninth month, Abiezer of Anathoth, a Benjamite. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:13 The tenth, for the tenth month, Maharai from Netophah, of the Zerahites. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:14 The eleventh, for the eleventh month, Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:15 The twelfth, for the twelfth month, Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel. In his division were 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:16 Also over the tribes of Israel: of the Reubenites: Eliezer son of Zichri was chief officer; of the Simeonites: Shephatiah son of Maachah; 
1Chronicles27:17 Of Levi: Hashabiah son of Kemuel; of Aaron: Zadok; 
1Chronicles27:18 Of Judah: Elihu, one of David's brothers; of Issachar: Omri son of Michael;" 
1Chronicles27:19 Of Zebulun: Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; of Naphtali: Jerimoth son of Azriel; 
1Chronicles27:19 Of Zebulun: Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; of Naphtali: Jerimoth son of Azriel; 
1Chronicles27:20 Of the Ephraimites: Hoshea son of Azaziah; of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Joel son of Pedaiah; 
1Chronicles27:20 Of the Ephraimites: Hoshea son of Azaziah; of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Joel son of Pedaiah; 
1Chronicles27:21 Of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo son of Zechariah; of Benjamin: Jaasiel son of Abner; 
1Chronicles27:21 Of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo son of Zechariah; of Benjamin: Jaasiel son of Abner; 
1Chronicles27:22 Of Dan: Azarel son of Jeroham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel. 
1Chronicles27:23 But David did not number those under twenty years of age, for the Lord had promised to make Israel as the stars of the heavens." 
1Chronicles27:24 Joab son of Zeruiah began a census but did not finish, because the census brought wrath upon Israel, and the number was not recorded in the chronicles of King David." 
1Chronicles27:25 Over the king's treasuries was Azmaveth son of Adiel; and over the treasuries in the country, cities, villages, and towers or forts was Jonathan son of Uzziah;" 
1Chronicles27:26 Over those who did the work of the field of tilling the soil was Ezri son of Chelub; 
1Chronicles27:27 Over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite; over the produce of the vineyards for the wine cellars, Zabdi the Shiphmite;" 
1Chronicles27:28 Over the olive and sycamore trees in the low plains, Baal-hanan the Gederite; over the stores of oil, Joash;" 
1Chronicles27:29 Over the herds pasturing in Sharon, Shitrai the Sharonite; over the herds in the valleys, Shaphat son of Adlai;" 
1Chronicles27:30 Over the camels, Obil the Ishmaelite; over the she-donkeys, Jehdeiah the Meronothite;" 
1Chronicles27:31 And over the flocks, Jaziz the Hagrite. All these were stewards of King David's property." 
1Chronicles27:32 Also Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, a wise man and a scribe; he and Jehiel son of Hachmoni attended the king's sons [as tutors]. [II Kings 10:6.]" 
1Chronicles27:33 Ahithophel was the king's counselor; Hushai the Archite was the king's companion and friend. 
1Chronicles27:34 Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada son of Benaiah and by Abiathar. Joab was the commander of the king's army. 
1Chronicles28:1 DAVID ASSEMBLED at Jerusalem all the leaders of Israel and of the tribes, the officers of the divisions that served the king in courses, and those over thousands and hundreds, and the stewards over all the property and livestock of the king and his sons, with the palace officers, the mighty men, and all the mighty warriors." 
1Chronicles28:2 Then David the king rose to his feet and said, Hear me, my brethren and my people. I myself intended to build a house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord, as a footstool for our God, and I prepared materials for the building." 
1Chronicles28:3 But God said to me, You shall not build a house for My Name [and Presence], because you have been a man of war and have shed blood." 
1Chronicles28:4 However, the Lord, the God of Israel, chose me before all my father's house to be king over Israel forever. For He chose Judah to be the ruler; and of the house of Judah he chose the house of my father; and among the sons of my father He was pleased to make me king over all Israel;" 
1Chronicles28:5 And of all my sons, for the Lord has given me many sons, He has chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel." 
1Chronicles28:6 And He said to me, Solomon your son shall build My house and My courts, for I have chosen him to be My son, and I will be his father." 
1Chronicles28:7 I will establish his kingdom forever if he loyally and continuously obeys My commandments and My ordinances, as he does today." 
1Chronicles28:8 Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the Lord, and in the hearing of our God, keep and seek [to be familiar with] all the commandments of the Lord your God, that you may possess this good land and leave it as an inheritance for your children after you forever." 
1Chronicles28:9 And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father [have personal knowledge of Him, be acquainted with, and understand Him; appreciate, heed, and cherish Him] and serve Him with a blameless heart and a willing mind. For the Lord searches all hearts and minds and understands all the wanderings of the thoughts. If you seek Him [inquiring for and of Him and requiring Him as your first and vital necessity] you will find Him; but if you forsake Him, He will cast you off forever!" 
1Chronicles28:10 Take heed now, for the Lord has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary. Be strong and do it!" 
1Chronicles28:11 Then David gave Solomon his son the plan of the vestibule of the temple, its houses, its treasuries, its upper chambers, its inner rooms, and of the place for the [ark and its] mercy seat;" 
1Chronicles28:12 And the plan of all that he had in mind [by the Spirit] for the courts of the house of the Lord, all the surrounding chambers, the treasuries of the house of God, and the treasuries for the dedicated gifts;" 
1Chronicles28:13 The plan for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the work of the service in the house of the Lord; for all the vessels for service in the house of the Lord:" 
1Chronicles28:14 The weight of gold and silver for all the gold and silver articles of every kind of service, 
1Chronicles28:15 The weight of the golden lampstands and their lamps, the weight of gold or silver for each lampstand and its lamps, according to the use of each lampstand;" 
1Chronicles28:16 The gold by weight for each table of showbread, and the silver for the tables of silver;" 
1Chronicles28:17 Also pure gold for the forks, basins, and cups; for the golden bowls by weight of each; for the silver bowls by weight of each;" 
1Chronicles28:18 For the incense altar refined gold by weight, and gold for the plan of the chariot of the cherubim that spread their wings and covered the ark of the Lord's covenant." 
1Chronicles28:19 All this the Lord made me understand by the writing by His hand upon me, all the work to be done according to the plan." 
1Chronicles28:20 Also David told Solomon his son, Be strong and courageous, and do it. Fear not, be not dismayed, for the Lord God, my God, is with you. He will not fail or forsake you until you have finished all the work for the service of the house of the Lord." 
1Chronicles28:21 And see, [you have] the divisions of the priests and Levites for all the service of God's house, and with you in all the kinds of work will be every willing, skillful man for any kind of service. Also the officers and all the people will be wholly at your command." 
1Chronicles29:1 AND KING David said to all the assembly, Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is yet young, tender, and inexperienced; and the work is great, for the palace is not to be for man but for the Lord God." 
1Chronicles29:2 So I have provided with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things to be of gold, silver for things of silver, bronze for things of bronze, iron for things of iron, and wood for things of wood, as well as onyx or beryl stones, stones to be set, stones of antimony, stones of various colors, and all sorts of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance." 
1Chronicles29:3 Moreover, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, in addition to all I have prepared for the holy house, I have a private treasure of gold and silver which I give for the house of my God:" 
1Chronicles29:4 It is 3,000 talents of gold, gold of Ophir, 7,000 talents of refined silver for overlaying the walls of the house," 
1Chronicles29:5 Gold for the uses of gold, silver for the uses of silver, and for every work to be done by craftsmen. Now who will offer willingly to fill his hand [and consecrate it] today to the Lord [like one consecrating himself to the priesthood]?" 
1Chronicles29:6 Then the chiefs of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly" 
1Chronicles29:7 And gave for the service of the house of God,of gold 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics, of silver 10,000 talents, of bronze 18,000 talents, and 100,000 talents of iron." 
1Chronicles29:8 And whoever had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the Lord in the care of Jehiel the Gershonite. 
1Chronicles29:9 Then the people rejoiced because these had given willingly, for with a whole and blameless heart they had offered freely to the Lord. King David also rejoiced greatly." 
1Chronicles29:10 Therefore David blessed the Lord before all the assembly and said, Be praised, adored, and thanked, O Lord, the God of Israel our [forefather], forever and ever." 
1Chronicles29:11 Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and the earth is Yours; Yours is the kingdom, O Lord, and Yours it is to be exalted as Head over all." 
1Chronicles29:12 Both riches and honor come from You, and You reign over all. In Your hands are power and might; in Your hands it is to make great and to give strength to all." 
1Chronicles29:13 Now therefore, our God, we thank You and praise Your glorious name and those attributes which that name denotes." 
1Chronicles29:14 But who am I, and what are my people, that we should retain strength and be able to offer thus so willingly? For all things come from You, and out of Your own [hand] we have given You." 
1Chronicles29:15 For we are strangers before You, and sojourners, as all our fathers were; our days on the earth are like a shadow, and there is no hope or expectation of remaining." 
1Chronicles29:16 O Lord our God, all this store that we have prepared to build You a house for Your holy Name and the token of Your presence comes from Your hand, and is all Your own." 
1Chronicles29:17 I know also, my God, that You try the heart and delight in uprightness. In the uprightness of my heart I have freely offered all these things. And now I have seen with joy Your people who are present here offer voluntarily and freely to You." 
1Chronicles29:18 O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep forever such purposes and thoughts in the minds of Your people, and direct and establish their hearts toward You." 
1Chronicles29:19 And give to Solomon my son a blameless heart to keep Your commandments, testimonies, and statutes, and to do all that is necessary to build the palace [for You] for which I have made provision." 
1Chronicles29:20 And David said to all the assembly, Now adore (praise and thank) the Lord your God! And all the assembly blessed the Lord, the God of their fathers, and bowed down and did obeisance to the Lord and to the king [as His earthly representative]." 
1Chronicles29:21 The next day they offered sacrifices and burnt offerings to the Lord: 1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams, and 1,000 lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel." 
1Chronicles29:22 They ate and drank before the Lord on that day with great rejoicing. They made Solomon son of David king a second time, and anointed him as prince for the Lord and Zadok to be high priest." 
1Chronicles29:23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king instead of David his father; and he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him." 
1Chronicles29:24 All the leaders and mighty men, and also all the sons of King David, pledged allegiance to King Solomon." 
1Chronicles29:25 And the Lord magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. 
1Chronicles29:26 Thus David son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 
1Chronicles29:27 The time he reigned over Israel was forty years,he reigned seven years in Hebron and thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles29:28 He died in a good old age [his seventy-first year], full and satisfied with days, riches, and honor. Solomon his son reigned in his stead." 
1Chronicles29:29 Now the acts of King David, from first to last, are written in the recorded words of Samuel the seer, Nathan the prophet, and Gad the seer," 
1Chronicles29:30 With accounts of all his reign and his might, and the times through which he and Israel passed, as did all the kingdoms of the countries." 
2Chronicles1:1 SOLOMON SON of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and the Lord his God was with him and made him exceedingly great." 
2Chronicles1:2 Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every prince in all Israel, the heads of the fathers' houses." 
2Chronicles1:3 And Solomon and all the assembly [a united nation] with him went to the high place that was at Gibeon, for the Tent of Meeting of God, which Moses the servant of the Lord had made in the wilderness, was there [where the Canaanites had habitually worshiped]." 
2Chronicles1:4 But David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim to the place which David had prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles1:5 Moreover, the bronze altar that Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made was there before the tabernacle of the Lord, and Solomon and the assembly sought [the Lord]." 
2Chronicles1:6 Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before the Lord at the Tent of Meeting and offered 1,000 burnt offerings on it." 
2Chronicles1:7 That night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, Ask what I shall give you." 
2Chronicles1:8 And Solomon said to God, You have shown great mercy and loving-kindness to David my father and have made me king in his place." 
2Chronicles1:9 Now, O Lord God, let Your promise to David my father be fulfilled, for you have made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude." 
2Chronicles1:10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge to go out and come in before this people, for who can rule this Your people who are so great?" 
2Chronicles1:11 God replied to Solomon, Because this was in your heart and you have not asked for riches, possessions, honor, and glory, or the life of your foes, or even for long life, but have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself, that you may rule and judge My people over whom I have made you king," 
2Chronicles1:12 Wisdom and knowledge are granted you. And I will give you riches, possessions, honor, and glory, such as none of the kings had before you, and none after you shall have their equal." 
2Chronicles1:13 Then Solomon came from the high place at Gibeon, from before the Tent of Meeting, to Jerusalem. And he reigned over Israel." 
2Chronicles1:14 Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen; he had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen, which he placed in the cities [suited for the use] of chariots and with the king at Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles1:15 And the king made silver and gold in Jerusalem as common as stones, and he made cedar as plentiful as the sycamores of the lowland." 
2Chronicles1:16 Solomon's horses were brought out of Egypt; the king's merchants received them in droves, each drove at a price." 
2Chronicles1:17 They imported from Egypt a chariot for 600 shekels of silver, and a horse for 150; so they brought out horses for all the Hittite and Syrian kings as export agents." 
2Chronicles2:1 SOLOMON DETERMINED to build a temple for the Name of the Lord and a royal capitol. 
2Chronicles2:2 And Solomon counted out 70,000 men to bear burdens, 80,000 to be stonecutters in the hill country, and 3,600 overseers." 
2Chronicles2:3 And Solomon sent to Hiram king of Tyre, saying, As you dealt with David my father and sent him cedars to build himself a house in which to dwell, even so deal with me." 
2Chronicles2:4 Behold, I am about to build a house for the Name of the Lord my God, dedicated to Him for the burning of incense of sweet spices before Him, for the continual showbread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening, on the Sabbaths, New Moons, and on the solemn feasts of the Lord our God, as ordained forever for Israel." 
2Chronicles2:5 The house which I am to build is great, for our God is greater than all gods." 
2Chronicles2:6 But who is able to build Him a house, since heaven, even highest heaven, cannot contain Him? Who am I to build Him a house, except as a place to burn incense in worship before Him?" 
2Chronicles2:7 Now therefore, send a man skilled to work in gold, silver, bronze, and iron, and in purple, crimson, and blue colors, who is a trained engraver, to work with the skilled men who are with me in Judah and Jerusalem, whom David my father provided." 
2Chronicles2:8 Send me also from Lebanon cedar, cypress, and algum timber, for I know your servants can skillfully cut timber in Lebanon; and my servants will be with your servants," 
2Chronicles2:9 To prepare for me timber in abundance, for the house I am about to build shall be great and wonderful." 
2Chronicles2:10 And I will give to your servants who cut timber 20,000 measures of crushed wheat and also of barley, and 20,000 baths of wine and also of oil." 
2Chronicles2:11 Then Hiram king of Tyre replied in writing sent to Solomon, Because the Lord loves His people, He has made you king over them." 
2Chronicles2:12 Hiram said also, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, Who made heaven and earth, Who has given to David the king a wise son, endued with prudence and understanding, who should build a house for the Lord and a royal palace as his capitol." 
2Chronicles2:13 Now I have sent a skilled man, endued with understanding, even Huram-abi, my trusted counselor," 
2Chronicles2:14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan; his father was a man of Tyre. He is a trained worker in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood; in purple, blue, and crimson colors, and in fine linen; and also to engrave any type of engraving and to carry out any design given him, with your skilled men and those of my lord, David your father." 
2Chronicles2:15 Now therefore, the wheat, barley, oil, and wine of which my lord has spoken, let him send them to his servants," 
2Chronicles2:16 And we will cut whatever timber you need from Lebanon and bring it to you in rafts by sea to Joppa, so you may take it up to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles2:17 Then Solomon took a census of all the aliens in the land of Israel, like the census of them which his father David had taken. They were found to be 153,600." 
2Chronicles2:18 And he assigned 70,000 of them to be burden bearers, 80,000 to work in the mountain quarries, and 3,600 as overseers to direct the people's work." 
2Chronicles3:1 THEN SOLOMON began to build the house of the Lord at Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where the Lord appeared to David his father, in the place that David had appointed, on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. [I Chron. 21:20-22.]" 
2Chronicles3:2 And Solomon began to build on the second day of the second month in the fourth year of his reign. 
2Chronicles3:3 Now these are the measurements for the foundations which Solomon laid for the house of God. The length in cubits by the former measure was sixty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits." 
2Chronicles3:4 The porch or vestibule across the front of the house was the same length as the house's breadth, twenty cubits, and the height 120 cubits. He overlaid it inside with pure gold." 
2Chronicles3:5 And the greater house (the Holy Place) he lined with cypress and overlaid it with fine gold and made palm trees and chains on it. 
2Chronicles3:6 And he adorned the house with precious stones for beauty; and the gold was gold of Parvaim. 
2Chronicles3:7 He lined the house (the Holy Place), its beams, thresholds, walls, and doors with gold, and engraved cherubim on the walls." 
2Chronicles3:8 He made the Most Holy Place, its length equaling the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and its breadth twenty cubits; he overlaid it with 600 talents of fine gold." 
2Chronicles3:9 The weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And he lined the upper chambers with gold. 
2Chronicles3:10 And in the Most Holy Place he made two cherubim of image work, and they were overlaid with gold." 
2Chronicles3:11 And the wings of the cherubim [combined] extended twenty cubits: one wing of one cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house, and its other wing of five cubits touched the other cherub's wing." 
2Chronicles3:12 And of the other cherub one wing of five cubits touched the wall of the house, and the other wing, also five cubits, joined the wing of the first cherub." 
2Chronicles3:13 The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits; the cherubim stood on their feet, their faces toward the Holy Place." 
2Chronicles3:14 And he made the veil [between the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place] of blue, purple, and crimson colors, and fine linen, and embroidered cherubim on it." 
2Chronicles3:15 Before the house he made two pillars, 35 cubits high, with a capital on the top of each which was five cubits." 
2Chronicles3:16 He made chains like a necklace and put them on the heads of the pillars, and he made 100 pomegranates and put them on the chains." 
2Chronicles3:17 He erected the pillars before the temple, one on the right, the other on the left, and called the one on the right Jachin [he shall establish] and the one on the left Boaz [in it is strength]." 
2Chronicles4:1 ALSO SOLOMON made an altar of bronze, its top twenty by twenty cubits and its height ten cubits." 
2Chronicles4:2 Also he made a round Sea of molten metal, ten cubits from brim to brim and five cubits high, and a line of thirty cubits measured around it." 
2Chronicles4:3 Under it were figures of oxen encircling it, ten to a cubit. The oxen were in two rows, cast in one piece with it." 
2Chronicles4:4 It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking north, three west, three south, three east; and the Sea rested upon them, and all their hind parts were inward." 
2Chronicles4:5 Its thickness was a handbreadth; its brim was like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily; it held 3,000 baths (measures)." 
2Chronicles4:6 He made also ten lavers in which to wash and put five on the right (south) side and five on the left (north). Such things as they offered for the burnt offering they washed in them, but the Sea was for the priests to wash in." 
2Chronicles4:7 And he made ten golden lampstands as directed and set them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left." 
2Chronicles4:8 He made also ten tables and placed them in the temple, five each on the right and left sides, and 100 basins of gold." 
2Chronicles4:9 Moreover, he made the priests' court, and the great court and doors for the court, and overlaid their doors with bronze." 
2Chronicles4:10 And he set the Sea at the southeast corner of the house. 
2Chronicles4:11 And Huram made the pots, shovels, and basins. So Huram finished the work of God's house that he did for King Solomon:" 
2Chronicles4:12 The two pillars; the bowls; the capitals on top of the two pillars; and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals on top of the pillars; 
2Chronicles4:13 And 400 pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals upon the pillars." 
2Chronicles4:14 He made also bases or stands and lavers upon the bases; 
2Chronicles4:15 One Sea and the twelve oxen under it; 
2Chronicles4:16 The pots, shovels, and fleshhooks, and all their equipment Huram his trusted counselor made of burnished bronze for King Solomon for the house of the Lord." 
2Chronicles4:17 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah." 
2Chronicles4:18 Solomon made all these things in such great numbers that the weight of the bronze was not computed. 
2Chronicles4:19 And Solomon made all the vessels for the house of God: the golden altar also; and the tables for the showbread (the bread of the Presence); 
2Chronicles4:20 And the lampstands with their lamps of pure gold, to burn before the inner sanctuary (the Holy of Holies) as directed;" 
2Chronicles4:21 The flowers, lamps, and tongs, of purest gold;" 
2Chronicles4:22 The snuffers, basins, dishes for incense, and firepans, of pure gold; and for the temple entry, the inner doors for the Most Holy Place and the doors of the Holy Place were of gold." 
2Chronicles5:1 THUS ALL the work that Solomon did for the house of the Lord was finished. He brought in all the things that David his father had dedicated, and the silver, the gold, and all the vessels he put in the treasuries of the house of God." 
2Chronicles5:2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chiefs of the fathers' houses of the Israelites, to Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the City of David, which is Zion." 
2Chronicles5:3 All the men of Israel gathered to the king at the feast in the seventh month. 
2Chronicles5:4 And all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark." 
2Chronicles5:5 And the priests and Levites brought up the ark, the Tent of Meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent." 
2Chronicles5:6 Also King Solomon and all the assembly of Israel who were gathered to him before the ark sacrificed sheep and oxen so numerous that they could not be counted or reported. 
2Chronicles5:7 And the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the Lord to its place, to the sanctuary of the house, into the Holy of Holies, under the wings of the cherubim;" 
2Chronicles5:8 For the cherubim spread out their wings over the place of the ark, making a covering above the ark and its poles." 
2Chronicles5:9 And they drew out the poles of the ark, so that the ends of the poles protruding from the ark were visible from the front of the Holy of Holies, but were not visible from without. It is there to this day." 
2Chronicles5:10 There was nothing in the ark except the two tables [the Ten Commandments] which Moses put in it at Mount Horeb, when the Lord made a covenant with the Israelites when they came out of Egypt." 
2Chronicles5:11 And when the priests had come out of the Holy Place,for all the priests present had sanctified themselves, separating themselves from everything that defiles, without regard to their divisions;" 
2Chronicles5:12 And all the Levites who were singers,all of those of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, with their sons and kinsmen, arrayed in fine linen, having cymbals, harps, and lyres,stood at the east end of the altar, and with them 120 priests blowing trumpets;" 
2Chronicles5:13 And when the trumpeters and singers were joined in unison, making one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the Lord, and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and other instruments for song and praised the Lord, saying, For He is good, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever, then the house of the Lord was filled with a cloud," 
2Chronicles5:14 So that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of God." 
2Chronicles6:1 THEN SOLOMON said, The Lord has said that He would dwell in the thick darkness;" 
2Chronicles6:2 I have built You a house, [in which the dark Holy of Holies seems] a [fitting] abode for You, a place for You to dwell in forever." 
2Chronicles6:3 And the king turned his face and blessed all the assembly of Israel, and they all stood." 
2Chronicles6:4 And he said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, Who has fulfilled with His hands what He promised with His mouth to David my father, saying," 
2Chronicles6:5 Since the day that I brought My people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that My Name might be there, neither chose I any man to be a ruler over My people Israel;" 
2Chronicles6:6 But I have chosen Jerusalem, that My Name [and the symbol of My presence] might be there, and I have chosen David to be over My people Israel." 
2Chronicles6:7 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the Name and renown of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles6:8 But the Lord said to David my father, Since it was in your heart to build a house for My Name and renown, you did well that it was in your heart." 
2Chronicles6:9 Yet you shall not build the house, but your son, who shall be born to you,he shall build the house for My Name." 
2Chronicles6:10 The Lord therefore has performed His word that He has spoken, for I have risen up in the place of David my father and sit on the throne of Israel, as the Lord promised, and have built the house for the Name of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles6:11 In it have I put the ark [the symbol of His presence], in which is the covenant of the Lord [the Ten Commandments] which He made with the people of Israel." 
2Chronicles6:12 And Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread forth his hands. 
2Chronicles6:13 For he had made a bronze scaffold, five cubits square and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court; upon it he stood, and he knelt upon his knees before all the assembly of Israel and spread forth his hands toward heaven," 
2Chronicles6:14 And said, O Lord, God of Israel, there is no God like You in the heavens or in the earth, keeping covenant and showing mercy and loving-kindness to Your servants who walk before You with all their hearts," 
2Chronicles6:15 You Who have kept Your promises to my father David and fulfilled with Your hand what You spoke with Your mouth, as it is today." 
2Chronicles6:16 Now therefore, O Lord, God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father that which You promised him, saying, There shall not fail a man in My sight to sit on the throne of Israel, provided your children are careful to walk in My law as you, David, have walked before Me." 
2Chronicles6:17 Now then, O Lord, God of Israel, let Your word to Your servant David be verified." 
2Chronicles6:18 But will God actually dwell with men on the earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain You; how much less this house which I have built!" 
2Chronicles6:19 Yet have respect for the prayer of Your servant and for his supplication, O Lord my God, to listen to the cry and the prayer which Your servant prays before You," 
2Chronicles6:20 That Your eyes may be open upon this house day and night, toward the place in which You have said You would put Your Name [and the symbol of your presence], to listen to and heed the prayer which Your servant prays facing this place." 
2Chronicles6:21 So listen to and heed the requests of Your servant and Your people Israel which they shall make facing this place. Hear from Your dwelling place, heaven; and when You hear, forgive." 
2Chronicles6:22 If a man sins against his neighbor, and he is required to take an oath, and the oath comes before Your altar in this house," 
2Chronicles6:23 Then hear from heaven and do; and judge Your servants, requiting the wicked by bringing his conduct upon his own head, and justifying the [uncompromisingly] righteous by giving him according to his righteousness (his uprightness and right standing with God)." 
2Chronicles6:24 If Your people Israel have been defeated before the enemy because they have sinned against You, and shall return, confess Your name [and You Yourself], and pray and make supplication before You in this house," 
2Chronicles6:25 Then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of Your people Israel and bring them again to the land which You gave to them and their fathers. 
2Chronicles6:26 When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because Your people have sinned against You, yet if they pray toward this place, confess your name [and You Yourself], and turn from their sin when You afflict them," 
2Chronicles6:27 Then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of Your servants, [all of] Your people Israel, when You have taught them the good way in which they should walk. And send rain upon Your land which You have given to Your people for an inheritance." 
2Chronicles6:28 If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, blight, mildew, locusts, or caterpillars, if their enemies besiege them in any of their cities, whatever plague or sickness there may be," 
2Chronicles6:29 Then whatever prayer or supplication any man or all of Your people Israel shall make,each knowing his own affliction and his own sorrow and stretching out his hands toward this house, 
2Chronicles6:30 Then hear from heaven, Your dwelling place, and forgive, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose heart You know; for You, You only, know men's hearts," 
2Chronicles6:31 That they may fear You and walk in Your ways as long as they live in the land which You gave to our fathers. 
2Chronicles6:32 Also concerning the stranger who is not of Your people Israel but has come from a far country for Your great name's sake and Your mighty power and Your outstretched arm,if he comes and prays toward this house," 
2Chronicles6:33 Hear from heaven, from Your dwelling place, and do all for which the stranger calls to You, that all peoples of the earth may know Your name and fear You [reverently and worshipfully], as do Your people Israel, and may know that this house which I have built is called by Your Name." 
2Chronicles6:34 If Your people go out to war against their enemies by the way that You send them, and they pray to You facing this city [Jerusalem] which You have chosen and the house which I have built for Your Name," 
2Chronicles6:35 Then hear from heaven their prayer and supplication, and maintain their cause." 
2Chronicles6:36 If they sin against You,for there is no man who does not sin,and You are angry with them and give them to enemies who take them captive to a land far or near; 
2Chronicles6:37 Yet if they repent in the land to which they have been carried captive, and turn and pray there, saying, We have sinned, we have done wrong, and have dealt wickedly;" 
2Chronicles6:38 If they return to You with all their heart and soul in the land of their captivity, and pray facing their land which You gave to their fathers and toward the city which You have chosen and the house which I have built for Your Name;" 
2Chronicles6:39 Then hear from heaven, Your dwelling place, their prayer and supplications, and maintain their cause; and forgive Your people, who have sinned against You." 
2Chronicles6:40 Now, O my God, I beseech You, let Your eyes be open and Your ears attentive to the prayer offered in this temple." 
2Chronicles6:41 So now arise, O Lord God, and come into Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength and power. Let Your priests, O Lord God, be clothed with salvation, and let Your saints (Your zealous ones) rejoice in good and in Your goodness." 
2Chronicles6:42 O Lord God, turn not away the face of [me] Your anointed one; [earnestly] remember Your good deeds, mercy, and steadfast love for David Your servant." 
2Chronicles7:1 WHEN SOLOMON had finished praying, the fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of the Lord filled the house." 
2Chronicles7:2 The priests could not enter the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's house." 
2Chronicles7:3 And when all the people of Israel saw how the fire came down and the glory of the Lord upon the house, they bowed with their faces upon the pavement and worshiped and praised the Lord, saying, For He is good, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever." 
2Chronicles7:4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the Lord. 
2Chronicles7:5 King Solomon offered a sacrifice of 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated God's house." 
2Chronicles7:6 The priests stood at their posts, and the Levites also, with instruments of music to the Lord, which King David had made to praise and give thanks to the Lord,for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever,whenever David praised through their ministry; the priests blew trumpets before them, and all Israel stood." 
2Chronicles7:7 Moreover, Solomon consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the Lord, for there he offered burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar which [he] had made was not sufficient to receive the burnt offerings, the cereal offerings, and the fat." 
2Chronicles7:8 At that time Solomon held the feast for seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the Brook of Egypt." 
2Chronicles7:9 The eighth day they made a solemn assembly, for they had kept the dedication of the altar and the feast, each for seven days." 
2Chronicles7:10 And on the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people away to their homes, glad and merry in heart for the goodness that the Lord had shown to David, to Solomon, and to Israel His people." 
2Chronicles7:11 Thus Solomon finished the Lord's house and the king's house; all that [he] had planned to do in the Lord's house and his own house he accomplished successfully. 
2Chronicles7:12 And the Lord appeared to Solomon by night and said to him: I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for Myself as a house of sacrifice. 
2Chronicles7:13 If I shut up heaven so no rain falls, or if I command locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among My people," 
2Chronicles7:14 If My people, who are called by My name, shall humble themselves, pray, seek, crave, and require of necessity My face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, forgive their sin, and heal their land." 
2Chronicles7:15 Now My eyes will be open and My ears attentive to prayer offered in this place. 
2Chronicles7:16 For I have chosen and sanctified (set apart for holy use) this house, that My Name may be here forever, and My eyes and My heart will be here perpetually." 
2Chronicles7:17 As for you [Solomon], if you will walk before me as David your father walked, and do all I have commanded you, and observe My statutes and My ordinances, [I Kings 11:1-11.]" 
2Chronicles7:18 Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom, as I covenanted with David your father, saying, There shall not fail you a man to be ruler in Israel." 
2Chronicles7:19 But if you [people] turn away and forsake My statutes and My commandments which I have set before you and go and serve other gods and worship them," 
2Chronicles7:20 Then will I pluck [Israel] up by the roots out of My land which I have given [them]; and this house which I have hallowed for My Name will I cast out of My sight, and will make it to be a proverb and a byword among all nations. [Jer. 24:9, 10.]" 
2Chronicles7:21 And this house, which was so high, shall be an astonishment to everyone passing it, and they will say, Why has the Lord done thus to this land and to this house?" 
2Chronicles7:22 Then men will say, Because they forsook the Lord, the God of their fathers, Who brought them out of Egypt, and they laid hold of other gods and worshiped and served them; therefore has He brought all this evil upon them." 
2Chronicles8:1 AT THE end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the house of the Lord and his own house," 
2Chronicles8:2 The cities which Huram had given to [him] Solomon rebuilt and fortified, and caused the Israelites to dwell there." 
2Chronicles8:3 And Solomon took Hamath-zobah. 
2Chronicles8:4 He built Tadmor in the wilderness and all his store cities in Hamath. 
2Chronicles8:5 Also he built Upper Beth-horon and Lower Beth-horon, fortified cities with walls, gates, and bars," 
2Chronicles8:6 And Baalath and all the store cities [he] had, and all the cities for his chariots and the cities for his horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all his dominion." 
2Chronicles8:7 All the people who were left of the Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, who were not of Israel," 
2Chronicles8:8 But descendants of those who were left in the land, whom the Israelites had not destroyed,of them Solomon made a levy for forced labor to this day." 
2Chronicles8:9 But of the Israelites Solomon made no slaves for his work; but they were men of war, chiefs of his captains, and captains of his chariots and horsemen." 
2Chronicles8:10 These were the chiefs of King Solomon's officers, 250 in authority over the people." 
2Chronicles8:11 Solomon brought the daughter of Pharaoh out of the City of David into the house he had built for her, for he said, My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy to which the ark of the Lord has come." 
2Chronicles8:12 Then Solomon offered burnt offerings to the Lord on the Lord's altar which he had built before the [temple] porch or vestibule," 
2Chronicles8:13 A certain number every day, offering as Moses commanded for the Sabbaths, the New Moons, and the solemn feast days three times in the year,the Feasts of Unleavened Bread, of Weeks, and of Tabernacles." 
2Chronicles8:14 And he appointed, as ordered by David his father, the divisions of the priests for their service, and the Levites to their offices to praise and to serve before the priests as the duty of every day required, and the gatekeepers also by their divisions at every gate; for so had David the man of God commanded." 
2Chronicles8:15 And they did not turn from the command of the king to the priests and Levites in any respect or concerning the treasuries. 
2Chronicles8:16 Thus all the work of Solomon was prepared from the day the foundation of the Lord's house was laid until it was finished. So the house of the Lord was completed. 
2Chronicles8:17 Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber and to Eloth on the shore of the [Red] Sea in the land of Edom. 
2Chronicles8:18 And Huram sent him by his servants ships and servants familiar with the sea; and they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir and took from there 450 talents of gold and brought them to King Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:1 WHEN THE queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to Jerusalem to test him with hard questions, accompanied by very many attendants and camels bearing spices, much gold, and precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she talked with him of all that was on her mind." 
2Chronicles9:2 And Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing hidden from [him] which he was unable to make clear to her. 
2Chronicles9:3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen Solomon's wisdom, the house he had built," 
2Chronicles9:4 The food of his table, the seating of his officials, the [standing at] attention of his servants, their apparel, his cupbearers also and their apparel, and his burnt offerings which he offered at the house of the Lord, there was no more spirit in her." 
2Chronicles9:5 She said to the king, The report which I heard in my own land of your acts and sayings and of your wisdom was true," 
2Chronicles9:6 But I did not believe their words until I came and my eyes had seen it. Behold, the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not told me; you surpass the fame that I heard of you." 
2Chronicles9:7 Happy are your wives and men, and happy are these your servants who stand continually before you and hear your wisdom!" 
2Chronicles9:8 Blessed be the Lord your God, Who delighted in you and set you on His throne to be king for the Lord your God! Because your God loved Israel and would establish them forever, He made you king over them, to do justice and righteousness." 
2Chronicles9:9 She gave the king 120 talents of gold, a very large quantity of spices, and precious stones; such spice was not anywhere as that which the queen of Sheba gave King Solomon." 
2Chronicles9:10 The servants of Huram and [those] of Solomon, who brought gold from Ophir, also brought algum trees and precious stones." 
2Chronicles9:11 The king made of the algum trees terraces or walks to the house of the Lord and to the king's palace, and lyres and harps for the singers; none such had ever been seen before in the land of Judah." 
2Chronicles9:12 And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatever she asked, besides what she had brought to the king. So she with her servants returned to her own land." 
2Chronicles9:13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents," 
2Chronicles9:14 Besides what traders and merchants brought; and all the kings of Arabia and governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:15 And King Solomon made 200 large shields or bucklers of beaten gold; 600 shekels of beaten gold went into each shield. 
2Chronicles9:16 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold, with 300 shekels of gold spread on each shield. And the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon." 
2Chronicles9:17 Moreover, [he] made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with pure gold." 
2Chronicles9:18 There were six steps to the throne and a gold footstool attached to the throne, and arms on each side of the seat, with two lions standing beside the arms." 
2Chronicles9:19 And twelve lions stood there one on either end of each of the six steps. The like of it was never made in any kingdom before. 
2Chronicles9:20 King Solomon's drinking vessels were all of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold; silver was not counted as anything in the days of Solomon." 
2Chronicles9:21 For the king's ships went to Tarshish with Huram's servants; once every three years the ships of Tarshish came bringing gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks." 
2Chronicles9:22 King Solomon surpassed all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom. 
2Chronicles9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom which God had put into his mind. 
2Chronicles9:24 And every man brought his tribute: silver and gold articles, robes, armor, spices, horses, and mules, so much year by year." 
2Chronicles9:25 Solomon had 4,000 stalls for horses and chariots, and 12,000 horsemen, stationed in chariot cities or at Jerusalem with the king. [Deut. 17:16, 17.]" 
2Chronicles9:26 And he ruled over all the kings from the [Euphrates] River to the land of Philistia and to the frontier of Egypt. 
2Chronicles9:27 The king made silver in Jerusalem as common as stones, and cedar wood as plentiful as sycamore trees in the lowlands." 
2Chronicles9:28 And they imported horses for Solomon from Egypt and from all lands. 
2Chronicles9:29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, from first to last, are they not written in the history of Nathan the prophet and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?" 
2Chronicles9:30 Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years. 
2Chronicles9:31 Then Solomon slept with his fathers; he was buried in the city of David his father. Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead. 
2Chronicles10:1 REHOBOAM WENT to Shechem, for all Israel had gone to Shechem to make him king." 
2Chronicles10:2 Jeroboam the son of Nebat was in Egypt, where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon, when he heard about the new king; so Jeroboam returned from Egypt." 
2Chronicles10:3 And the people sent for him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came to Rehoboam, saying," 
2Chronicles10:4 Your father [King Solomon] made our yoke grievous. So now make lighter the grievous service of your father and his heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve you." 
2Chronicles10:5 Rehoboam replied, Come again to me after three days. And the people departed." 
2Chronicles10:6 King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men who stood before Solomon his father while he was alive, saying, What counsel do you give me in reply to the people?" 
2Chronicles10:7 And they answered him, If you are kind to [these] people and please them and speak good words to them, they will be your servants forever." 
2Chronicles10:8 But the king forsook the counsel which the old men gave him and took counsel with the young men who were brought up with him and stood before him. 
2Chronicles10:9 And he said to them, What answer do you advise that we give to the demand of [these] people, Make the yoke your father put upon us lighter?" 
2Chronicles10:10 The young men who were brought up with him said to him, Tell the people who said to you, Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make it lighter: My little finger is thicker than my father's loins." 
2Chronicles10:11 For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will add to your yoke. My father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions." 
2Chronicles10:12 The third day Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam as he had said. 
2Chronicles10:13 And the king answered them harshly, forsaking the counsel of the old men," 
2Chronicles10:14 And answered them after the advice of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions." 
2Chronicles10:15 So the king did not heed the people, for it was brought about of God, that the Lord might perform His word which He spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam son of Nebat. [I Kings 11:29-39.]" 
2Chronicles10:16 And when all Israel saw that the king would not listen to and heed them, they answered [him], What portion have we in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to your tents, O Israel! Now, David [tribe of Judah], see to your own house [under your tyrant King Rehoboam]! So all Israel went to their homes." 
2Chronicles10:17 But as for the Israelites who dwelt in Judah's cities, Rehoboam ruled over them." 
2Chronicles10:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the forced labor, and the Israelites stoned him and he died. But King Rehoboam hastened to get up to his royal chariot to flee to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles10:19 And Israel has rebelled against the house of David to this day. 
2Chronicles11:1 AND WHEN Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled of the house of Judah and Benjamin 180,000 chosen warriors to fight against [the ten rebellious tribes of] Israel to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam." 
2Chronicles11:2 But the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying," 
2Chronicles11:3 Say to Rehoboam son of Solomon king of Judah and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin," 
2Chronicles11:4 Thus says the Lord: You shall not go up or fight against your brethren. Return every man to his house, for this thing is from Me. And they obeyed the Lord and returned from going against Jeroboam." 
2Chronicles11:5 Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem and built cities for defense in Judah. 
2Chronicles11:6 He built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa," 
2Chronicles11:7 Beth-zur, Soco, Adullam," 
2Chronicles11:8 Gath, Mareshah, Ziph," 
2Chronicles11:9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah," 
2Chronicles11:10 Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron, which are fortified cities in Judah and Benjamin." 
2Chronicles11:11 He fortified the strongholds and put captains in them, with stores of food, oil, and vintage fruits." 
2Chronicles11:12 And in each city he put shields and spears, and made them very strong. So he held Judah and Benjamin." 
2Chronicles11:13 And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel came over to Rehoboam from wherever they lived. 
2Chronicles11:14 For the Levites left their suburbs and their possessions and came to Judah and Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them out from executing the priest's office to the Lord." 
2Chronicles11:15 And he appointed his own priests for the high places and for the [idols of demon] he-goats, and calves he had made. [I Kings 12:28.]" 
2Chronicles11:16 And after them out of all the tribes of Israel there came to Jerusalem those who set their hearts to seek and inquire of the Lord, the God of Israel, to sacrifice to the Lord, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles11:17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah and upheld Rehoboam son of Solomon for three years; for they walked in the ways of David and Solomon for three years. 
2Chronicles11:18 Rehoboam took as wife Mahalath, whose father was Jerimoth son of David; her mother was Abihail daughter of Eliab son of Jesse." 
2Chronicles11:19 She bore him sons: Jeush, Shamariah, and Zaham." 
2Chronicles11:20 And after her he took Maacah daughter [granddaughter] of Absalom, who bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith." 
2Chronicles11:21 And Rehoboam loved Maacah daughter [granddaughter] of Absalom more than all his wives and concubines,for he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and he had twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters." 
2Chronicles11:22 And Rehoboam made Abijah son of Maacah the chief prince among his brethren, for he intended to make him king." 
2Chronicles11:23 And he dealt understandingly and dispersed his children throughout all Judah and Benjamin to every fortified city. He gave them abundant supplies, and he sought many wives for them." 
2Chronicles12:1 WHEN REHOBOAM had established the kingdom and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of the Lord, and all Israel with him." 
2Chronicles12:2 And in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, because they had transgressed and been unfaithful to the Lord, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem" 
2Chronicles12:3 With 1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen, and the people were without number who came with him from Egypt,the Libyans, Sukkiim, and Ethiopians." 
2Chronicles12:4 And he took the fortified cities of Judah and came on to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles12:5 Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, Thus says the Lord: You have forsaken Me, so I have abandoned you into the hands of Shishak." 
2Chronicles12:6 Then the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, The Lord is righteous." 
2Chronicles12:7 And when the Lord saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves, so I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance; and My wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak." 
2Chronicles12:8 Nevertheless, they shall be his servants, that they may know [the difference between] My service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries." 
2Chronicles12:9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem; he took away the treasures of the house of the Lord and of the king's house. He took everything. He took away also the shields of gold Solomon had made. 
2Chronicles12:10 Instead of them King Rehoboam made shields of bronze and committed them to the hands of the officers of the guard who kept the door of the king's house. 
2Chronicles12:11 And whenever the king entered the Lord's house, the guards came and got the shields of bronze and brought them again into the guard chamber." 
2Chronicles12:12 When Rehoboam humbled himself, the wrath of the Lord turned from him, so as not to destroy him entirely; also in Judah conditions were good." 
2Chronicles12:13 So King Rehoboam established and strengthened himself in Jerusalem and reigned. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city in which the Lord had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put His Name [and the symbol of His presence]. His mother was Naamah an Ammonitess." 
2Chronicles12:14 And he did evil because he did not set his heart to seek (inquire of, yearn for) the Lord with all his desire." 
2Chronicles12:15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, from first to last, are they not written in the histories of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer regarding genealogies? There were wars between Rehoboam of Judah and Jeroboam of Israel continually." 
2Chronicles12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the City of David; and Abijah his son reigned in his stead. 
2Chronicles13:1 IN THE eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, Abijah began to reign over Judah." 
2Chronicles13:2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother was Micaiah daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam of Israel. 
2Chronicles13:3 And Abijah prepared for battle with an army of valiant men of war, 400,000 chosen men. Jeroboam set the battle in array against him with 800,000 chosen men, mighty men of valor." 
2Chronicles13:4 And Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim, in the hill country of Ephraim, and said, Hear me, O Jeroboam and all Israel!" 
2Chronicles13:5 Ought you not to know that the Lord, the God of Israel, gave the kingship over Israel to David forever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt?" 
2Chronicles13:6 Yet Jeroboam son of Nebat, a servant of Solomon son of David, rose up and rebelled against his lord [the king]." 
2Chronicles13:7 And there gathered to him worthless men, base fellows, who strengthened themselves against Rehoboam son of Solomon when Rehoboam was young [as king], irresolute, and inexperienced and did not withstand them with firmness and strength." 
2Chronicles13:8 And now you think to withstand the kingdom of the Lord which is in the hands of the sons of David, because you are a great multitude and you have with you the golden calves which Jeroboam made for you for gods." 
2Chronicles13:9 Have you not driven out the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and made priests for yourselves like the peoples of other lands? So whoever comes to consecrate himself with a young bull and seven rams may be a priest of idols that are not gods." 
2Chronicles13:10 But as for us, the Lord is our God, and we have not forsaken Him. We have priests ministering to the Lord who are sons of Aaron, and Levites for their service." 
2Chronicles13:11 They offer to the Lord every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and incense of sweet spices; they set in order the showbread on the table of pure gold and attend to the golden lampstand, that its lamps may be lighted every evening. For we keep the charge of the Lord our God, but you have forsaken Him." 
2Chronicles13:12 Behold, God Himself is with us at our head, and His priests with their battle trumpets to sound an alarm against you. O Israelites, fight not against the Lord, the God of your fathers, for you cannot prosper." 
2Chronicles13:13 But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come around them from behind, so his troops were before Judah and the ambush behind." 
2Chronicles13:14 When Judah looked, behold, the battle was before and behind; and they cried to the Lord, and the priests blew the trumpets." 
2Chronicles13:15 Then the men of Judah gave a shout; and as they shouted, God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah." 
2Chronicles13:16 And the Israelites fled before Judah, and God delivered them into their hands." 
2Chronicles13:17 And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter, so there fell of Israel 500,000 chosen men." 
2Chronicles13:18 Thus the Israelites were brought low at that time, and the people of Judah prevailed because they relied upon the Lord, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles13:19 And Abijah pursued Jeroboam and took some cities from him, Bethel, Jeshanah, and Ephraim (Ephron), with their towns." 
2Chronicles13:20 Jeroboam did not recover strength again in the days of Abijah. And the Lord smote him and he died. 
2Chronicles13:21 But Abijah became mighty. He married fourteen wives and had twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. 
2Chronicles13:22 And the rest of the acts of Abijah, his ways and his sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo." 
2Chronicles14:1 SO ABIJAH slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David; and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land was at rest for ten years." 
2Chronicles14:2 And Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles14:3 He took away the foreign altars and high places and broke down the idol pillars or obelisks and cut down the Asherim [symbols of the goddess Asherah] 
2Chronicles14:4 And commanded Judah to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers [to inquire of and for Him and crave Him as a vital necessity], and to obey the law and the commandment." 
2Chronicles14:5 Also Asa took out of all the cities of Judah the idolatrous high places and the incense altars. And the kingdom had rest under his reign. 
2Chronicles14:6 And he built fortified cities in Judah, for the land had rest. He had no war in those years, for the Lord gave him peace." 
2Chronicles14:7 Therefore he said to Judah, Let us build these cities and surround them with walls, towers, gates, and bars. The land is still ours, because we sought the Lord our God; we have sought Him [yearning for Him with all our desire] and He has given us rest and peace on every side. So they built and prospered." 
2Chronicles14:8 Asa had an army of 300,000 men out of Judah, who bore bucklers and spears, and 280,000 out of Benjamin, who bore shields and drew bows, all mighty men of courage." 
2Chronicles14:9 There came out against Judah Zerah the Ethiopian with a host of a million [that is, too many to be numbered] and 300 chariots, and came as far as Mareshah." 
2Chronicles14:10 Then Asa went out against him, and they set up their lines of battle in the Valley of Zephathah at Mareshah." 
2Chronicles14:11 Asa cried to the Lord his God, O Lord, there is none besides You to help, and it makes no difference to You whether the one You help is mighty or powerless. Help us, O Lord our God! For we rely on You, and we go against this multitude in Your name. O Lord, You are our God; let no man prevail against You!" 
2Chronicles14:12 So the Lord smote the Ethiopians before Asa and Judah, and the Ethiopians fled." 
2Chronicles14:13 Asa and the people with him pursued them to Gerar; and the Ethiopians were overthrown, so that none remained alive; for they were destroyed before the Lord and His host, who carried away very much booty." 
2Chronicles14:14 And they smote all the cities round about Gerar, for the fear of the Lord came upon them. They plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them." 
2Chronicles14:15 They smote also the cattle encampments and carried away sheep in abundance and camels; and they returned to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles15:1 THE SPIRIT of God came upon Azariah son of Oded. 
2Chronicles15:2 And he went out to meet Asa and said to him, Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: the Lord is with you while you are with Him. If you seek Him [inquiring for and of Him, craving Him as your soul's first necessity], He will be found by you; but if you [become indifferent and] forsake Him, He will forsake you." 
2Chronicles15:3 Now for a long time Israel was without the true God, without a teaching priest, and without law." 
2Chronicles15:4 But when they in their trouble turned to the Lord, the God of Israel, and [in desperation earnestly] sought Him, He was found by them." 
2Chronicles15:5 And in those times there was no peace to him who went out nor to him who came in, but great and vexing afflictions and disturbances were upon all the inhabitants of the countries." 
2Chronicles15:6 Nation was broke in pieces against nation, and city against city, for God vexed and troubled them with all sorts of adversity." 
2Chronicles15:7 Be strong, therefore, and let not your hands be weak and slack, for your work shall be rewarded." 
2Chronicles15:8 And when Asa heard these words, the prophecy of Oded the prophet, he took courage and put away the abominable idols from all the land of Judah and Benjamin and from the cities which he had taken in the hill country of Ephraim; and he repaired the altar [of burnt offering] of the Lord which was in front of the porch or vestibule [of the house] of the Lord." 
2Chronicles15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin and the strangers with them out of Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon, for they came over to Asa out of Israel in large numbers when they saw that the Lord his God was with him." 
2Chronicles15:10 So they gathered at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa. 
2Chronicles15:11 And they sacrificed to the Lord on that day from the spoil which they had brought,700 oxen and 7,000 sheep." 
2Chronicles15:12 And they entered into a covenant to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, and to yearn for Him with all their heart's desire and with all their soul;" 
2Chronicles15:13 And that whoever would not seek the Lord, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether young or old, man or woman." 
2Chronicles15:14 They took an oath to the Lord with a loud voice, with shouting, with trumpets, and with cornets." 
2Chronicles15:15 And all Judah rejoiced at the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart and sought Him [yearning for Him] with their whole desire, and He was found by them. And the Lord gave them rest and peace round about." 
2Chronicles15:16 Also Maacah, King Asa's mother, he removed from being queen mother, because she had made an abominable image for [the goddess] Asherah. Asa cut down her idol, crushed it, and burned it at the brook Kidron." 
2Chronicles15:17 But the high places were not taken out of Israel. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was blameless all his days." 
2Chronicles15:18 And he brought into the house of God the things that his father [Abijah] had dedicated and those he himself had dedicated,silver and gold and vessels. 
2Chronicles15:19 And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of the reign of Asa. 
2Chronicles16:1 IN THE thirty-sixth year of Asa's reign, Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah, and built (fortified) Ramah intending to intercept anyone going out or coming in to Asa king of Judah." 
2Chronicles16:2 Then Asa brought silver and gold out of the treasuries of the house of the Lord and of the king's house and sent them to Ben-hadad king of Syria, who dwelt at Damascus, saying," 
2Chronicles16:3 Let there be a league between me and you, as was between my father and your father. Behold, I am sending you silver and gold; go, break your league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me." 
2Chronicles16:4 And Ben-hadad hearkened to King Asa and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali." 
2Chronicles16:5 And when Baasha heard it, he stopped building Ramah and let his work cease." 
2Chronicles16:6 Then King Asa took all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building, and with them he built Geba and Mizpah." 
2Chronicles16:7 At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, Because you relied on the king of Syria and not on the Lord your God, the army of the king of Syria has escaped you." 
2Chronicles16:8 Were not the Ethiopians and Libyans a huge host with very many chariots and horsemen? Yet because you relied then on the Lord, He gave them into your hand." 
2Chronicles16:9 For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show Himself strong in behalf of those whose hearts are blameless toward Him. You have done foolishly in this; therefore, from now on you shall have wars." 
2Chronicles16:10 Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in prison [in the stocks], for he was enraged with him because of this. Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time." 
2Chronicles16:11 The acts of Asa, from first to last, are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles16:12 In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet,until his disease became very severe; yet in his disease he did not seek the Lord, but relied on the physicians." 
2Chronicles16:13 And Asa slept with his fathers, dying in the forty-first year of his reign." 
2Chronicles16:14 And they buried him in his own tomb which he had hewn out for himself in the City of David, and they laid him on a bier which was filled with sweet odors and various kinds [of spices] prepared by the perfumers' art; and they made a very great burning [of spices] in his honor." 
2Chronicles17:1 JEHOSHAPHAT HIS son reigned in Asa's stead and strengthened himself against Israel. 
2Chronicles17:2 And he placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which Asa his father had taken. 
2Chronicles17:3 The Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of his father [David]. He did not seek the Baals 
2Chronicles17:4 But sought and yearned with all his desire for the Lord, the God of his father, and walked in His commandments and not after the ways of Israel." 
2Chronicles17:5 Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor." 
2Chronicles17:6 His heart was cheered and his courage was high in the ways of the Lord; moreover, he took away the high places and the Asherim out of Judah." 
2Chronicles17:7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah to teach in the cities of Judah;" 
2Chronicles17:7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah to teach in the cities of Judah;" 
2Chronicles17:7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent his princes Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah to teach in the cities of Judah;" 
2Chronicles17:8 And with them were the Levites,Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah; and with these Levites were the priests Elishama and Jehoram." 
2Chronicles17:9 And they taught in Judah, and had the Book of the Law of the Lord with them; they went about throughout all the cities of Judah and taught among the people." 
2Chronicles17:10 And a terror from the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat." 
2Chronicles17:11 And some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat gifts and tribute silver, and the Arabs brought him flocks: 7,700 each of rams and of he-goats." 
2Chronicles17:12 And Jehoshaphat became very great. He built in Judah fortresses and store cities," 
2Chronicles17:13 And he had many works in the cities of Judah, and soldiers, mighty men of courage, in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles17:14 This was the number of them by their fathers' houses: Of Judah, the captains of thousands: Adnah the chief, with 300,000 mighty men of valor;" 
2Chronicles17:15 Next to him was Jehohanan the captain, with 280,000;" 
2Chronicles17:16 And next to him Amasiah son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to the Lord, with 200,000 mighty men of valor." 
2Chronicles17:17 Of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty man of valor, with 200,000 men armed with bow and shield;" 
2Chronicles17:18 Next to him was Jehozabad with 180,000 armed for war." 
2Chronicles17:19 These were in the king's service, besides those [he] had placed in fortified cities throughout all Judah." 
2Chronicles18:1 NOW JEHOSHAPHAT had great riches and honor, but was allied [by marriage] with Ahab." 
2Chronicles18:2 After some years he went down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance and for the people with him and persuaded him to go up with him against Ramoth-gilead. 
2Chronicles18:3 Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead? He answered, I am as you are, and my people as your people; we will be with you in the war." 
2Chronicles18:4 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Inquire first, I pray you, for the word of the Lord today." 
2Chronicles18:5 So King [Ahab] of Israel gathered together the prophets, 400 men, and said to them, Shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up, for God will deliver it into the king's hand." 
2Chronicles18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not another prophet of the Lord here by whom we may inquire?" 
2Chronicles18:7 King [Ahab] of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is another man, Micaiah son of Imla, by whom we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him, for he never has prophesied good for me, but always evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so." 
2Chronicles18:8 And King [Ahab] of Israel called for one of his officers and said, Bring quickly Micaiah son of Imla." 
2Chronicles18:9 The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat each on his throne, arrayed in their robes; they were sitting in an open place [at the threshing floor] at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; all the prophets were prophesying before them." 
2Chronicles18:10 And Zedekiah son of Chenaanah had made himself horns of iron, and said, Thus says the Lord: With these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed." 
2Chronicles18:11 All the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead and prosper; the Lord will deliver it into the king's hand." 
2Chronicles18:12 The messenger who went to call Micaiah said to him, Behold, the words of the prophets foretell good to the king with one accord. So let your word be like one of them, and speak favorably." 
2Chronicles18:13 But Micaiah said, As the Lord lives, what my God says, that will I speak." 
2Chronicles18:14 And when he had come to the king, King [Ahab] said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And he said, Go up and prosper, and they shall be delivered into your hand." 
2Chronicles18:15 And the king said to him, How many times shall I warn you to tell nothing but the truth to me in the name of the Lord?" 
2Chronicles18:16 Then Micaiah said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains as sheep that have no shepherd, and the Lord said, These have no master. Let each return to his house in peace." 
2Chronicles18:17 And King [Ahab] of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good to me, but evil?" 
2Chronicles18:18 [Micaiah] said, Therefore hear the word of the Lord: I saw the Lord sitting on His throne, and all the host of heaven standing at His right hand and His left." 
2Chronicles18:19 And the Lord said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one said this thing, and another that." 
2Chronicles18:20 Then there came a spirit and stood before the Lord and said, I will entice him. The Lord said to him, By what means?" 
2Chronicles18:21 And he said, I will go out and be a lying spirit in the mouths of all his prophets. And the Lord said, You shall entice him and also succeed. Go forth and do so." 
2Chronicles18:22 Now, you see, the Lord put a lying spirit in the mouths of your prophets; and the Lord has spoken evil concerning you." 
2Chronicles18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and smote Micaiah upon the cheek and said, Which way went the Spirit of the Lord from me to speak to you?" 
2Chronicles18:24 And Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day when you shall go into an inner chamber to hide yourself." 
2Chronicles18:25 Then King [Ahab] of Israel said, Take Micaiah back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son," 
2Chronicles18:26 And say, Thus says the king: Put this fellow in prison and feed him with bread and water of affliction until I return in peace." 
2Chronicles18:27 Micaiah said, If you return at all in peace, the Lord has not spoken by me. And he [added], Hear it, you people, all of you!" 
2Chronicles18:28 So Ahab king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead. 
2Chronicles18:29 And [Ahab] king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and will go to the battle, but you put on your royal robes. So King Ahab of Israel disguised himself, and they went into the battle." 
2Chronicles18:30 Now Syria's king had commanded his chariot captains, Fight not with small or great, but only with the king of Israel." 
2Chronicles18:31 And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat [of Judah], they said, It is the king of Israel. So they turned to fight against him, but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the Lord helped him; and God moved them to depart from him." 
2Chronicles18:32 For when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him." 
2Chronicles18:33 A certain man drew his bow at a venture and smote King [Ahab] of Israel between the lower armor and the breastplate. So Ahab said to his chariot driver, Turn, carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded." 
2Chronicles18:34 And the battle increased that day; however, King [Ahab] of Israel propped himself up in his chariot opposite the Syrians until evening, and about sunset he died." 
2Chronicles19:1 JEHOSHAPHAT THE king of Judah returned safely to his house in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles19:2 Jehu son of Hanani, the seer, went out to meet him and said to Jehoshaphat, Should you help the ungodly and love those who hate the Lord? Because of this, wrath has gone out against you from the Lord." 
2Chronicles19:3 But there are good things found in you, for you have destroyed the Asherim out of the land and have set your heart to seek God [with all your soul's desire]." 
2Chronicles19:4 Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem, and he went out again among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim and brought them back to the Lord, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles19:5 He appointed judges throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city," 
2Chronicles19:6 And said to the judges, Be careful what you do, for you judge not for man but for the Lord, and He is with you in the matter of judgment." 
2Chronicles19:7 So now let the reverence and fear of the Lord be upon you; take heed what you do, for there is no injustice with the Lord our God, or partiality or taking of bribes." 
2Chronicles19:8 Also in Jerusalem, Jehoshaphat set certain Levites, priests, and heads of families of Israel to give judgment for the Lord and decide controversies. When they [of the commission] returned to Jerusalem," 
2Chronicles19:9 The king charged them, Do this in the fear of the Lord, faithfully, with integrity and a blameless heart." 
2Chronicles19:10 Whenever any controversy shall come to you from your brethren who dwell in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and judgments, you shall warn and instruct them that they may not be guilty before the Lord; otherwise wrath will come upon you and your brethren. Do this and you will not be guilty." 
2Chronicles19:11 And behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of the Lord, and Zebadiah son of Ishmael, the governor of the house of Judah, in all the king's matters; also the Levites will serve you as officers. Deal courageously [be strong and do], and may the Lord be with the good!" 
2Chronicles20:1 AFTER THIS, the Moabites, the Ammonites, and with them the Meunites came against Jehoshaphat to battle." 
2Chronicles20:2 It was told Jehoshaphat, A great multitude has come against you from beyond the [Dead] Sea, from Edom; and behold they are in Hazazon-tamar, which is En-gedi." 
2Chronicles20:3 Then Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself [determinedly, as his vital need] to seek the Lord; he proclaimed a fast in all Judah." 
2Chronicles20:4 And Judah gathered together to ask help from the Lord; even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord [yearning for Him with all their desire]. 
2Chronicles20:5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the Lord before the new court 
2Chronicles20:6 And said, O Lord, God of our fathers, are You not God in heaven? And do You not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? In Your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand You." 
2Chronicles20:7 Did not You, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before Your people Israel and give it forever to the descendants of Abraham Your friend?" 
2Chronicles20:8 They dwelt in it and have built You a sanctuary in it for Your Name, saying," 
2Chronicles20:9 If evil comes upon us, the sword of judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house and before You,for Your Name [and the symbol of Your presence] is in this house,and cry to You in our affliction, and You will hear and save." 
2Chronicles20:10 And now behold, the men of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, whom You would not let Israel invade when they came from the land of Egypt, and whom they turned from and did not destroy,[Deut. 2:9.]" 
2Chronicles20:11 Behold, they reward us by coming to drive us out of Your possession which You have given us to inherit." 
2Chronicles20:12 O our God, will You not exercise judgment upon them? For we have no might to stand against this great company that is coming against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are upon You." 
2Chronicles20:13 And all Judah stood before the Lord, with their children and their wives." 
2Chronicles20:14 Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaziel son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly." 
2Chronicles20:14 Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaziel son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly." 
2Chronicles20:15 He said, Hearken, all Judah, you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you King Jehoshaphat. The Lord says this to you: Be not afraid or dismayed at this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God's." 
2Chronicles20:16 Tomorrow go down to them. Behold, they will come up by the Ascent of Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the ravine before the Wilderness of Jeruel." 
2Chronicles20:17 You shall not need to fight in this battle; take your positions, stand still, and see the deliverance of the Lord [Who is] with you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Fear not nor be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord is with you." 
2Chronicles20:18 And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the Lord, worshiping Him." 
2Chronicles20:19 And some Levites of the Kohathites and Korahites stood up to praise the Lord, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice." 
2Chronicles20:20 And they rose early in the morning and went out into the Wilderness of Tekoa; and as they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in the Lord your God and you shall be established; believe and remain steadfast to His prophets and you shall prosper." 
2Chronicles20:21 When he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers to sing to the Lord and praise Him in their holy [priestly] garments as they went out before the army, saying, Give thanks to the Lord, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever!" 
2Chronicles20:22 And when they began to sing and to praise, the Lord set ambushments against the men of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir who had come against Judah, and they were [self-] slaughtered;" 
2Chronicles20:23 For [suspecting betrayal] the men of Ammon and Moab rose against those of Mount Seir, utterly destroying them. And when they had made an end of the men of Seir, they all helped to destroy one another." 
2Chronicles20:24 And when Judah came to the watchtower of the wilderness, they looked at the multitude, and behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and none had escaped!" 
2Chronicles20:25 When Jehoshaphat and his people came to take the spoil, they found among them much cattle, goods, garments, and precious things which they took for themselves, more than they could carry away, so much they were three days in gathering the spoil." 
2Chronicles20:26 On the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of Beracah. There they blessed the Lord. So the name of the place is still called the Valley of Beracah [blessing]. 
2Chronicles20:27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, Jehoshaphat leading them, to Jerusalem with joy, for the Lord had made them to rejoice over their enemies." 
2Chronicles20:28 They came to Jerusalem with harps, lyres, and trumpets to the house of the Lord." 
2Chronicles20:29 And the fear of God came upon all the kingdoms of those countries when they heard that the Lord had fought against the enemies of Israel. 
2Chronicles20:30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest round about." 
2Chronicles20:31 Thus Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began his twenty-five-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Azubah daughter of Shilhi. 
2Chronicles20:32 And he walked in the ways of Asa his father and departed not from it, doing what was right in the sight of the Lord." 
2Chronicles20:33 But the high places [of idolatry] were not taken away, for the people had not yet set their hearts on their fathers' God." 
2Chronicles20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, from first to last, they are written in the records of Jehu son of Hanani, which are in the Book of the Kings of Israel." 
2Chronicles20:35 After this, Jehoshaphat king of Judah joined with Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly." 
2Chronicles20:36 He joined him in building ships to go to Tarshish, building them in Ezion-geber." 
2Chronicles20:37 Then Eliezer son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because you have joined Ahaziah, the Lord will destroy your works. So the ships were wrecked and unable to go to Tarshish." 
2Chronicles21:1 JEHOSHAPHAT SLEPT with his fathers and was buried with [them] in the City of David. Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. 
2Chronicles21:2 He had brothers: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariah, Michael, and Shephatiah, all the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel." 
2Chronicles21:2 He had brothers: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariah, Michael, and Shephatiah, all the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel." 
2Chronicles21:3 Their father gave them great gifts of silver, gold, and precious things, together with fortified cities in Judah, but the kingdom he gave to Jehoram, the firstborn." 
2Chronicles21:4 When Jehoram had ascended to the kingship of his father, he strengthened himself and slew all his brethren with the sword and also some of Israel's princes." 
2Chronicles21:5 Jehoram at thirty-two years of age began his eight-year reign in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles21:6 He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for he married the daughter of Ahab and did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord." 
2Chronicles21:7 But the Lord would not destroy the house of David, because He had made a covenant with David and promised to give a light to him and to his sons forever." 
2Chronicles21:8 In Jehoram's days, the Edomites revolted from the rule of Judah and set up for themselves a king." 
2Chronicles21:9 Then Jehoram passed over [the Jordan] with his captains and all his chariots, and rose up by night and smote the Edomites who had surrounded him and his chariot captains." 
2Chronicles21:10 So Edom revolted from the rule of Judah to this day. Then Libnah also revolted from Jehoram's rule, because he had forsaken the Lord, the God of his fathers." 
2Chronicles21:11 Moreover, he made idolatrous high places in the hill country of Judah and debauched spiritually the inhabitants of Jerusalem and led Judah astray [compelling the people's cooperation]." 
2Chronicles21:12 And there came a letter to Jehoram from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father [forefather]: Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah," 
2Chronicles21:13 But have walked in the ways of Israel's kings, and made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem play the harlot like the [spiritual] harlotry of Ahab's house, and also have slain your brothers of your father's house, who were better than you," 
2Chronicles21:14 Behold, the Lord will smite your people, and your children, your wives, and all your possessions with a great plague." 
2Chronicles21:15 And you yourself shall have a severe illness because of an intestinal disease, until your bowels fall out because of the sickness, day after day." 
2Chronicles21:16 And the Lord stirred up against Jehoram the anger of the Philistines and of the Arabs who were near the Ethiopians. 
2Chronicles21:17 They came against Judah, invaded it, and carried away all the possessions found in and around the king's house, together with his sons and his wives; so there was not a son left to him except Jehoahaz, the youngest." 
2Chronicles21:18 And after all this, the Lord smote [Jehoram] with an incurable intestinal disease." 
2Chronicles21:19 In process of time, after two years, his bowels fell out because of his disease. So he died in severe distress. And his people made no funeral fire to honor him, like the fires for his fathers." 
2Chronicles21:20 Thirty-two years old was Jehoram when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being wanted. Yet they buried him in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings." 
2Chronicles22:1 THE PEOPLE of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, his youngest son, king in his stead, for the troop that came with the Arabs to the camp had slain all the older sons. So Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned." 
2Chronicles22:2 Forty-two years old was Ahaziah when he began his one-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Athaliah, a granddaughter of Omri. [II Kings 8:26.]" 
2Chronicles22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor to do wickedly." 
2Chronicles22:4 So he did evil in the sight of the Lord like the house of Ahab, for they were his counselors after his father's death, to his destruction." 
2Chronicles22:5 He followed their counsel and even went with Joram son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram; [II Kings 8:28ff.] 
2Chronicles22:6 And he returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds given him at Ramah when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. Azariah son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram son of Ahab in Jezreel because he was sick. 
2Chronicles22:7 But the destruction of Ahaziah was ordained of God in his coming to visit Joram. For when he got there he went out with Joram against Jehu son of Nimshi, whom the Lord had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab." 
2Chronicles22:8 And when Jehu was executing judgment upon the house of Ahab, he met the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah's slain brothers, who attended Ahaziah, and he slew them." 
2Chronicles22:9 And [Jehu] sought Ahaziah, who was hiding in Samaria; he was captured, brought to Jehu, and slain. They buried him, for they said, After all, he is the grandson of Jehoshaphat, who sought the Lord with all his heart. So the house of Ahaziah had no one left able to rule the kingdom." 
2Chronicles22:10 But when Athaliah mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family of Judah." 
2Chronicles22:11 But Jehosheba, the daughter of the king, took Joash [infant] son of Ahaziah and stole him away from among the king's sons who were to be slain, and she put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehosheba daughter of King Jehoram, sister of Ahaziah, and wife of Jehoiada the priest, hid [Joash] from [his grandmother] Athaliah, so that she did not slay him." 
2Chronicles22:12 And Joash was with them hidden in the house of God six years, and Athaliah reigned over the land." 
2Chronicles23:1 IN THE seventh year Jehoiada [the priest] took strength and courage and made a covenant with the captains of hundreds: Azariah son of Jeroham, Ishmael son of Jehohanan, Azariah son of Obed, Maaseiah son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat son of Zichri." 
2Chronicles23:2 And they went about in Judah and gathered the Levites out of all the cities, and the chiefs of the fathers' houses of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles23:3 And all the assembly made a covenant in the house of God with the king [little Joash, to suddenly proclaim his sovereignty and overthrow Athaliah's tyranny]. And Jehoiada the priest said to them, Behold, the king's son shall reign, as the Lord has said of the offspring of David." 
2Chronicles23:4 This is what you shall do: a third of you priests and Levites who are resuming service on the Sabbath shall be doorkeepers," 
2Chronicles23:5 A [second] third shall be at the king's house, and [the final] third at the Foundation Gate; and all the people shall be in the courts [only] of the house of the Lord." 
2Chronicles23:6 But let none come into the [main] house of the Lord except the priests and those of the Levites who minister; they may go in, for they are holy, but let all the rest of the people carefully observe the law against entering the holy place of the Lord." 
2Chronicles23:7 And the Levites shall surround the young king, every man with his weapons in his hand; and whoever comes into the house [breaking through the ranks of the guard to get near Joash] shall be put to death. But you be with the king when he comes in [from the temple chamber where he is hiding] and when he goes out." 
2Chronicles23:8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest had commanded; and took every man his men who were to resume duty on the Sabbath, with those who were to go out on the Sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the divisions [of priests and Levites]." 
2Chronicles23:9 Also Jehoiada the priest gave the captains of hundreds spears, bucklers, and shields that had been King David's, which were in the house of God." 
2Chronicles23:10 And he set all the people as a guard for the king, every man having his weapon (missile) in his hand, from the right side to the left side of the temple, around the altar and the temple." 
2Chronicles23:11 Then they brought out the king's son and put the crown on him and gave him the testimony or law and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and said, Long live the king!" 
2Chronicles23:12 When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she went into the Lord's house to the people." 
2Chronicles23:13 And behold, there the king stood by his pillar at the entrance, the captains and the trumpeters beside him; and all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets, and the singers with musical instruments led in singing of praise. Athaliah rent her clothes and cried, Treason! Treason!" 
2Chronicles23:14 Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds who were over the army, Bring her out between the ranks, and whoever follows her, let him be slain with the sword. For the priest said, Do not slay her in the Lord's house." 
2Chronicles23:15 So they made way for Athaliah, and she went into the entrance of the Horse Gate of the king's house; there they slew her." 
2Chronicles23:16 Then Jehoiada made a covenant between himself, all the people, and the king, that they should be the Lord's people." 
2Chronicles23:17 Then all the people went to the house of Baal, tore it down, and broke its altars and its images in pieces, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars." 
2Chronicles23:18 Also Jehoiada appointed the offices and officers [for the care] of the house of the Lord under the direction of the Levitical priests, whom David had distributed [in his day] in the house of the Lord, to offer the burnt offerings of the Lord as written in the Law of Moses, with rejoicing and singing, as ordered by David." 
2Chronicles23:19 Jehoiada set the gatekeepers at the gates of the house of the Lord so that no one should enter who was in any way unclean. 
2Chronicles23:20 And he took the captains of hundreds and the nobles and governors of the people and all the people of the land and brought down the king from the house of the Lord; and they came through the Upper Gate to the king's house and set the king upon the throne of the kingdom. 
2Chronicles23:21 So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet after Athaliah had been slain with the sword." 
2Chronicles24:1 JOASH WAS seven years old when he began his forty-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Zibiah of Beersheba. 
2Chronicles24:2 And Joash did what was right in the sight of the Lord all the days of Jehoiada the priest [his uncle]. 
2Chronicles24:3 And Jehoiada took for him two wives, and he had sons and daughters." 
2Chronicles24:4 After this, Joash decided to repair the Lord's house." 
2Chronicles24:5 He gathered the priests and the Levites and said to them, Go out to the cities of Judah, and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year; and see that you hasten the matter. But the Levites did not hasten it." 
2Chronicles24:6 So the king called for Jehoiada the high priest and said to him, Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tax authorized by Moses the servant of the Lord and of the assembly of Israel for the Tent of the Testimony?" 
2Chronicles24:7 For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken into the house of God and also had used for the Baals all the dedicated things of the house of the Lord." 
2Chronicles24:8 And at the king's command they made a chest and set it outside the gate of the house of the Lord. 
2Chronicles24:9 And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem to bring in for the Lord the tax that Moses the servant of God laid upon Israel in the wilderness. 
2Chronicles24:10 And all the princes and people rejoiced and brought their tax and dropped it into the chest until they had finished. 
2Chronicles24:11 When the Levites brought the chest to the king's office, and whenever they saw that there was much money, the king's secretary and the high priest's officer came and emptied the chest and carried it to its place again. Thus they did day by day and collected money in abundance." 
2Chronicles24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who did the work of the temple service; and they hired masons and carpenters and also those who worked in iron and bronze to repair the house of the Lord. 
2Chronicles24:13 So the workmen labored, and the work of repairing went forward in their hands; and they set up the house of God according to its design and strengthened it." 
2Chronicles24:14 When they had finished it, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada; from it were made utensils for the Lord's house, vessels for ministering and for offerings, and cups and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of the Lord continually all the days of Jehoiada." 
2Chronicles24:15 But Jehoiada became old and full of [the handicaps of great] age, and he died. He was 130 years old at his death." 
2Chronicles24:16 They buried him in the City of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel and toward God and His house." 
2Chronicles24:17 Now after the death of Jehoiada [the priest, who had hidden Joash], the princes of Judah came and made obeisance to King Joash; then the king hearkened to them." 
2Chronicles24:18 They forsook the house of the Lord, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherim and idols; and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for their sin (guilt)." 
2Chronicles24:19 Yet [God] sent prophets to them to bring them again to the Lord; these testified against them, but they would not listen." 
2Chronicles24:20 Then the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah son of Jehoiada the priest, who stood over the people, and he said to them, Thus says God: Why do you transgress the commandments of the Lord so that you cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the Lord, He also has forsaken you." 
2Chronicles24:20 Then the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah son of Jehoiada the priest, who stood over the people, and he said to them, Thus says God: Why do you transgress the commandments of the Lord so that you cannot prosper? Because you have forsaken the Lord, He also has forsaken you." 
2Chronicles24:21 They conspired against Zechariah the priest and stoned him at the command of the king in the court of the Lord's house! 
2Chronicles24:21 They conspired against Zechariah the priest and stoned him at the command of the king in the court of the Lord's house! 
2Chronicles24:22 Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness which Jehoiada, Zechariah's father, had done him, but slew his son. And when [Zechariah the priest] was dying, he said, May the Lord see and avenge!" 
2Chronicles24:22 Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness which Jehoiada, Zechariah's father, had done him, but slew his son. And when [Zechariah the priest] was dying, he said, May the Lord see and avenge!" 
2Chronicles24:23 At the end of the year, the army of Syria came up against Joash. They came to Judah and Jerusalem and destroyed all the princes from among the people and sent all their spoil to the king of Damascus." 
2Chronicles24:24 Though the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men, the Lord delivered a very great host into their hands, because Joash and Judah had forsaken the Lord, the God of their fathers. So the Syrians executed judgment against Joash." 
2Chronicles24:25 And when they had departed from Joash, leaving him very ill, his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and they slew him on his bed. So he died and they buried him in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings." 
2Chronicles24:26 The conspirators against Joash were Zabad son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad son of Shimrith the Moabitess." 
2Chronicles24:27 Now concerning his sons and the greatness of the prophecies uttered against him and the rebuilding of the house of God, they are written in the commentary on the Book of Kings. And Amaziah his [Joash's] son reigned in his stead." 
2Chronicles25:1 AMAZIAH WAS twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles25:2 He did right in the Lord's sight, but not with a perfect or blameless heart." 
2Chronicles25:3 When his kingdom was firmly established, he slew his servants who had killed the king his father." 
2Chronicles25:4 But he did not slay their children; he did as it is written in the Law, in the Book of Moses, where the Lord commanded, The fathers shall not die for the children, or the children die for the fathers; but every man shall die for his own sin." 
2Chronicles25:5 Amaziah assembled the men of Judah and set them by fathers' houses under commanders of thousands and of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He numbered them from twenty years old and over and found them to be 300,000 choice men fit for war and able to handle spear and shield." 
2Chronicles25:6 He hired also 100,000 mighty men of valor from Israel for 100 talents of silver." 
2Chronicles25:7 But a man of God came to him, saying, O king, do not let all this army of Ephraimites of Israel go with you [of Judah], for the Lord is not with you," 
2Chronicles25:8 For if you go [in spite of warning], no matter how strong you are for battle, God will cast you down before the enemy, for God has power to help and to cast down." 
2Chronicles25:9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do about the 100 talents which I have given to the army of Israel? The man of God answered, The Lord is able to give you much more than this." 
2Chronicles25:10 So Amaziah discharged the army that came to him from Ephraim to go home. So their anger was greatly kindled against Judah; they returned home in fierce wrath. 
2Chronicles25:11 And Amaziah took courage and led forth his people to the Valley of Salt and smote 10,000 of the men of Seir [Edom]." 
2Chronicles25:12 Another 10,000 the men of Judah captured alive and brought them to the top of a crag and cast them down from it, and they were all dashed to pieces." 
2Chronicles25:13 But the soldiers of the band which Amaziah sent back, not allowing them to go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from Samaria even to Beth-horon, and smote 3,000 [men] and took much spoil." 
2Chronicles25:14 After Amaziah came back from the slaughter of the Edomites, he brought their gods and set them up to be his gods and bowed before them and burned incense to them." 
2Chronicles25:15 So the anger of the Lord was kindled against Amaziah, and He sent to him a prophet, who said, Why have you sought after the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own people out of your hand?" 
2Chronicles25:16 As he was talking, the king said to him, Have we made you the king's counselor? Stop it! Why should you be put to death? The prophet stopped but said, I know that God has determined to destroy you, because you have done this and ignored my counsel." 
2Chronicles25:17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took counsel and sent to Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come [to battle], let us look one another in the face. [II Kings 14:8-20.]" 
2Chronicles25:18 Jehoash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, A little thistle in Lebanon sent to a great cedar in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son as wife. And a wild beast of Lebanon passed by and trampled down the thistle." 
2Chronicles25:19 You say, See, [I] have smitten Edom! Your heart lifts you up to boast. Stay at home; why should you meddle [and court disaster], so you will fall and Judah with you?" 
2Chronicles25:20 But Amaziah would not hear, for it came from God, that He might deliver Judah into the hands of their enemies, because they sought after the gods of Edom." 
2Chronicles25:21 So Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced one another at Beth-shemesh of Judah. 
2Chronicles25:22 And Judah was defeated before Israel, and they fled every man to his tent." 
2Chronicles25:23 And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh and brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits." 
2Chronicles25:24 And he took all the gold, the silver, and all the vessels found in God's house with [the doorkeeper] Obed-edom, and the treasures of the king's house and hostages also, and returned to Samaria." 
2Chronicles25:25 And Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years. 
2Chronicles25:26 The rest of the acts of Amaziah, from first to last, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel?" 
2Chronicles25:27 Now after Amaziah turned away from the Lord, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent to Lachish and slew him there." 
2Chronicles25:28 And they brought him upon horses and buried him with his fathers in the City of [David in] Judah. 
2Chronicles26:1 THEN ALL the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah." 
2Chronicles26:2 He built Eloth and restored it to Judah after Amaziah slept with his fathers. 
2Chronicles26:3 Uzziah was sixteen years old when he began his fifty-two-year reign in Jerusalem. His mother was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles26:4 He did right in the Lord's sight, to the extent of all that his father Amaziah had done." 
2Chronicles26:5 He set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the things of God; and as long as he sought (inquired of, yearned for) the Lord, God made him prosper." 
2Chronicles26:5 He set himself to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the things of God; and as long as he sought (inquired of, yearned for) the Lord, God made him prosper." 
2Chronicles26:6 He went out against the Philistines and broke down the walls of Gath, of Jabneh, and of Ashdod, and built cities near Ashdod and elsewhere among the Philistines." 
2Chronicles26:7 And God helped him against the Philistines, and the Arabs who dwelt in Gur-baal and the Meunim." 
2Chronicles26:8 The Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread abroad even to the border of Egypt, for he became very strong." 
2Chronicles26:9 Also Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, the Valley Gate, and at the angle of the wall, and fortified them." 
2Chronicles26:10 Also he built towers in the wilderness and hewed out many cisterns, for he had much livestock, both in the lowlands and in the tableland. And he had farmers and vinedressers in the hills and in the fertile fields [of Carmel], for he loved farming." 
2Chronicles26:11 And Uzziah had a combat army for waging war by regiments according to the number as recorded by Jeiel the secretary and Maaseiah the officer under the direction of Hananiah, one of the king's commanders." 
2Chronicles26:12 The whole number of the heads of fathers' houses of mighty men of valor was 2,600." 
2Chronicles26:13 Under their command was an army of 307,500 who could fight with mighty power to help the king against the enemy." 
2Chronicles26:14 Uzziah prepared for all the army shields, spears, helmets, coats of mail, bows, and stones to sling." 
2Chronicles26:15 In Jerusalem he made machines invented by skillful men to be on the towers and the [corner] bulwarks, with which to shoot arrows and great stones. And his fame spread far, for he was marvelously helped till he was strong." 
2Chronicles26:16 But when [King Uzziah] was strong, he became proud to his destruction; and he trespassed against the Lord his God, for he went into the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense." 
2Chronicles26:17 And Azariah the priest went in after him and with him eighty priests of the Lord, men of courage." 
2Chronicles26:18 They opposed King Uzziah and said to him, It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the Lord, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are set apart to burn incense. Withdraw from the sanctuary; you have trespassed, and that will not be to your credit and honor before the Lord God." 
2Chronicles26:19 Then Uzziah was enraged, and he had a censer in his hand to burn incense. And while he was enraged with the priests, leprosy broke out on his forehead before the priests in the house of the Lord, beside the incense altar." 
2Chronicles26:20 And as Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked upon him, behold, he was leprous on his forehead! So they forced him out of there; and he also made haste to get out, because the Lord had smitten him." 
2Chronicles26:21 And King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death, and, being a leper, he dwelt in a separate house, for he was excluded from the Lord's house. And Jotham his son took charge of the king's household, ruling the people of the land." 
2Chronicles26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, from first to last, Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, wrote. [Isa. 1:1.]" 
2Chronicles26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, from first to last, Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, wrote. [Isa. 1:1.]" 
2Chronicles26:23 So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the burial field of the kings [outside the royal tombs], for they said, He is a leper. Jotham his son reigned in his stead." 
2Chronicles27:1 JOTHAM WAS twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother was Jerushah daughter of Zadok." 
2Chronicles27:2 He did right in the sight of the Lord, to the extent of all that his father Uzziah had done. However, he did not invade the temple of the Lord. But the people still did corruptly." 
2Chronicles27:3 He built the Upper Gate of the Lord's house and did much building on the wall of Ophel. 
2Chronicles27:4 Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and in the forests he built forts and towers." 
2Chronicles27:5 He fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed against them. The Ammonites gave him that year 100 talents of silver and 10,000 measures each of wheat and of barley. That much the Ammonites paid to him also the second year and third year." 
2Chronicles27:6 So Jotham grew mighty, for he ordered his ways in the sight of the Lord his God." 
2Chronicles27:7 Now the rest of Jotham's acts, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah." 
2Chronicles27:8 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David. Ahaz his son reigned in his stead." 
2Chronicles28:1 AHAZ WAS twenty years old when he began his sixteen-year reign in Jerusalem. He did not do right in the sight of the Lord, like David his father [forefather]." 
2Chronicles28:2 But he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and even made molten images for the Baals. 
2Chronicles28:3 And he burned incense in the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom] and burned his sons as an offering, after the abominable customs of the [heathen] nations whom the Lord drove out before the Israelites." 
2Chronicles28:4 He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, on the hills, and under every green tree." 
2Chronicles28:5 Therefore the Lord his God gave Ahaz into the power of the king of Syria, who defeated him and carried away a great multitude of the Jews as captives, taking them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hands of the king of Israel, who smote Judah with a great slaughter." 
2Chronicles28:6 For Pekah son of Remaliah slew in Judah 120,000 in one day, all courageous men, because they had forsaken the Lord, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah, King Ahaz' son, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah, who was second to the king." 
2Chronicles28:8 And the Israelites carried away captive 200,000 of their kinsmen [of Judah],women, sons, and daughters,and also took much plunder from them and brought it to Samaria." 
2Chronicles28:9 But a prophet of the Lord was there whose name was Oded, and he went out to meet the army that was returning to Samaria and said to them, Behold, because the Lord, the God of your fathers, was angry with Judah, He delivered them into your hand; but you have slain them in a fury that reaches up to heaven." 
2Chronicles28:10 And now you intend to suppress the people of Judah and Jerusalem, both men and women, as your slaves. But are not you yourselves guilty of crimes against the Lord your God?" 
2Chronicles28:11 Now hear me therefore, and set the prisoners free again whom you have taken captive of your kinsmen, for the fierce wrath of the Lord is upon you." 
2Chronicles28:12 Then certain of the heads of the Ephraimites [Israel],Azariah son of Johanan, Berechiah son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah son of Shallum, and Amasa son of Hadlai,stood up against those returning from the war" 
2Chronicles28:13 And said, You shall not bring the captives in here; we are guilty before the Lord already, and what you intend will add more to our sins and our guilt. For our trespass (guilt) is great, and there is fierce anger against Israel." 
2Chronicles28:14 So the armed men [of Israel] left the captives and the spoil [of Judah] before the princes and all the assembly. 
2Chronicles28:15 And the men who have been mentioned by name rose up and took the captives, and with the spoil they clothed all who were naked among them; and having clothed them, shod them, given them food and drink, anointed them [as was a host's duty], and carried all the feeble of them upon donkeys, they brought them to Jericho, the City of Palm Trees, to their brethren. Then they returned to Samaria. [Luke 10:25-37.]" 
2Chronicles28:16 At that time King Ahaz sent to the king of Assyria to help him. 
2Chronicles28:17 For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah and carried away captives. 
2Chronicles28:18 The Philistines had invaded the cities of the low country and of the South (the Negeb) of Judah, and had taken Beth-shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth, and Soco, and also Timnah and Gimzo, with their villages, and they settled there." 
2Chronicles28:19 For the Lord brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel, for Ahaz had dealt with reckless cruelty against Judah and had been faithless [had transgressed sorely] against the Lord." 
2Chronicles28:20 So Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came to him and distressed him without strengthening him. 
2Chronicles28:21 For Ahaz took [treasure] from the house of the Lord and out of the house of the king and from the princes and gave it as tribute to the king of Assyria, but it did not help Ahaz." 
2Chronicles28:22 In the time of his distress he became still more unfaithful to the Lord,this same King Ahaz. 
2Chronicles28:23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus, which had defeated him, for he said, Since the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, I will sacrifice to them that they may help me. But they were the ruin of him and of all Israel." 
2Chronicles28:24 And Ahaz collected the utensils of the house of God and cut them in pieces; and he shut up the doors of the Lord's temple [the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies] and made himself altars in every corner of Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles28:25 In each city of Judah he made high places to burn incense to other gods, provoking to anger the Lord, the God of his fathers." 
2Chronicles28:26 Now the rest of his acts and of all his ways, from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, in Jerusalem, but they did not bring him into the tombs of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead." 
2Chronicles29:1 HEZEKIAH BEGAN to reign when he was twenty-five years old, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother was Abijah daughter of Zechariah." 
2Chronicles29:1 HEZEKIAH BEGAN to reign when he was twenty-five years old, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother was Abijah daughter of Zechariah." 
2Chronicles29:2 And he did right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David his father [forefather] had done." 
2Chronicles29:3 In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the Lord [which his father had closed] and repaired them." 
2Chronicles29:4 He brought together the priests and Levites in the square on the east 
2Chronicles29:5 And said to them, Levites, hear me! Now sanctify (purify and make free from sin) yourselves and the house of the Lord, the God of your fathers, and carry out the filth from the Holy Place." 
2Chronicles29:6 For our fathers have trespassed and have done what was evil in the sight of the Lord our God, and they have forsaken Him and have turned away their faces from the dwelling place of the Lord and have turned their backs." 
2Chronicles29:7 Also they have closed the doors of the porch and put out the lamps, and they have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the place holy to the God of Israel. [II Kings 16:10-16.]" 
2Chronicles29:8 Therefore the wrath of the Lord was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and He has delivered them to be a terror and a cause of trembling, to be an astonishment, and a hissing, as you see with your own eyes." 
2Chronicles29:9 For, behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons, our daughters, and our wives are in captivity for this." 
2Chronicles29:10 Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with the Lord, the God of Israel, that His fierce anger may turn away from us." 
2Chronicles29:11 My sons, do not now be negligent, for the Lord has chosen you to stand in His presence, to serve Him, to be His ministers, and to burn incense to Him." 
2Chronicles29:12 Then the Levites arose: Mahath son of Amasai, Joel son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; of the sons of Merari: Kish son of Abdi, Azariah son of Jehallelel; of the Gershonites: Joah son of Zimmah and Eden son of Joah;" 
2Chronicles29:12 Then the Levites arose: Mahath son of Amasai, Joel son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; of the sons of Merari: Kish son of Abdi, Azariah son of Jehallelel; of the Gershonites: Joah son of Zimmah and Eden son of Joah;" 
2Chronicles29:13 Of the sons of Elizaphan: Shimri and Jeiel; of the sons of Asaph: Zechariah, and Mattaniah;" 
2Chronicles29:13 Of the sons of Elizaphan: Shimri and Jeiel; of the sons of Asaph: Zechariah, and Mattaniah;" 
2Chronicles29:14 Of the sons of Heman: Jehiel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun: Shemaiah and Uzziel. 
2Chronicles29:15 They gathered their brethren and sanctified themselves and went in, as the king had commanded by the words of the Lord, to cleanse the house of the Lord." 
2Chronicles29:16 The priests went into the inner part of the house of the Lord to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness they found in the temple of the Lord into the court of the Lord's house. And the Levites carried it out to the brook Kidron." 
2Chronicles29:17 They began on the first day of the first month, and on the eighth day they came to the porch of the Lord. Then for eight days they sanctified the house of the Lord, and on the sixteenth day they finished." 
2Chronicles29:18 Then they went to King Hezekiah and said, We have cleansed all the house of the Lord and the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils and the showbread table with all its utensils." 
2Chronicles29:19 Moreover, all the utensils which King Ahaz in his reign cast away when he was transgressing [faithless] we have made ready and sanctified; and behold, they are before the altar of the Lord." 
2Chronicles29:20 Then King Hezekiah rose early and gathered the officials of the city and went up to the house of the Lord. 
2Chronicles29:21 They brought seven each of bulls, rams, lambs, and he-goats for a sin offering for the kingdom, the sanctuary, and Judah. He commanded the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer them on the Lord's altar." 
2Chronicles29:22 So they killed the bulls, and the priests received the blood and dashed it against the altar. Likewise, when they had killed the rams and then the lambs, they dashed the blood against the altar." 
2Chronicles29:23 Then the he-goats for the sin offering were brought before the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them." 
2Chronicles29:24 The priests killed them and made a sin offering with their blood upon the altar to make atonement for all Israel, for the king commanded that the burnt offering and sin offering be made for all Israel." 
2Chronicles29:25 Hezekiah stationed the Levites in the Lord's house with cymbals, harps, and lyres, as David [his forefather] and Gad the king's seer and Nathan the prophet had commanded; for the commandment was from the Lord through His prophets." 
2Chronicles29:26 The Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets." 
2Chronicles29:27 Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the altar. And when the burnt offering began, the song of the Lord began also with the trumpets and with the instruments ordained by King David of Israel." 
2Chronicles29:28 And all the congregation worshiped, the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded; all this continued until the burnt offering was finished." 
2Chronicles29:29 When they had stopped offering, the king and all present with him bowed themselves and worshiped." 
2Chronicles29:30 Also King Hezekiah and the princes ordered the Levites to sing praises to the Lord with the words of David and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness and bowed themselves and worshiped. 
2Chronicles29:31 Then Hezekiah said, Now you have consecrated yourselves to the Lord; come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of the Lord. And the assembly brought in sacrifices and thank offerings, and as many as were of a willing heart brought burnt offerings." 
2Chronicles29:32 And the number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was 70 bulls, 100 rams, and 200 lambs. All these were for a burnt offering to the Lord." 
2Chronicles29:33 And the consecrated things were 600 oxen and 3,000 sheep." 
2Chronicles29:34 But the priests were too few and could not skin all the burnt offerings. So until the other priests had sanctified themselves, their Levite kinsmen helped them until the work was done, for the Levites were more upright in heart than the priests in sanctifying themselves." 
2Chronicles29:35 Also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and the drink offerings for every burnt offering. So the service of the Lord's house was set in order." 
2Chronicles29:36 Thus Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, because of what God had prepared for the people, for it was done suddenly." 
2Chronicles30:1 HEZEKIAH SENT to all Israel [as well as] Judah and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh to come to the Lord's house at Jerusalem to keep the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles30:2 For the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem took counsel to keep the Passover in the second month. [Num. 9:10, 11.]" 
2Chronicles30:3 For they could not keep it at the set time because not enough priests had sanctified themselves, neither had the people assembled in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:4 The new time pleased the king and all the assembly. 
2Chronicles30:5 So they decreed to make a proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, that the people should come to keep the Passover to the Lord, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem. For they had not kept it collectively as prescribed for a long time." 
2Chronicles30:6 So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, as the king commanded, saying, O Israelites, return to the Lord, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that He may return to those left of you who escaped out of the hands of the kings of Assyria." 
2Chronicles30:7 Do not be like your fathers and brethren, who were unfaithful to the Lord, the God of their fathers, so that He gave them up to desolation [to be an astonishment], as you see." 
2Chronicles30:8 Now be not stiff-necked, as your fathers were, but yield yourselves to the Lord and come to His sanctuary, which He has sanctified forever, and serve the Lord your God, that His fierce anger may turn away from you." 
2Chronicles30:9 For if you return to the Lord, your brethren and your children shall find compassion with their captors and return to this land. For the Lord your God is gracious and merciful, and He will not turn away His face from you if you return to Him." 
2Chronicles30:10 So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, even to Zebulun, but the people laughed them to scorn and mocked them." 
2Chronicles30:11 Yet, a few of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:12 Also the hand of God came upon Judah to give them one heart to do the commandment of the king and of the princes, by the word of the Lord." 
2Chronicles30:13 And many people came to Jerusalem to keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month, a very great assembly." 
2Chronicles30:14 They rose up and took away the altars [to idols] that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars and utensils for incense [to the gods] they took away and threw into the Kidron Valley [dumping place for the ashes of such abominations]." 
2Chronicles30:15 Then they killed the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the second month. And the priests and the Levites were ashamed and sanctified themselves and brought burnt offerings to the Lord's house. 
2Chronicles30:16 They stood in their accustomed places, as directed in the Law of Moses the man of God. The priests threw [against the altar] the blood they received from the hand of the Levites." 
2Chronicles30:17 For many were in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves [become clean and free from all sin]. So the Levites had to kill the Passover lambs for all who were not clean, in order to make them holy to the Lord." 
2Chronicles30:18 For a multitude of the people, many from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than Moses directed. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, May the good Lord pardon everyone" 
2Chronicles30:19 Who sets his heart to seek and yearn for God,the Lord, the God of his fathers,even though not complying with the purification regulations of the sanctuary." 
2Chronicles30:20 And the Lord hearkened to Hezekiah and healed the people. 
2Chronicles30:21 And the Israelites who were in Jerusalem kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great joy. The Levites and priests praised the Lord day by day, singing with instruments of much volume to the Lord." 
2Chronicles30:22 Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites who had good understanding in the Lord's work. So the people ate the seven-day appointed feast, offering peace offerings, making confession [and giving thanks] to the Lord, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles30:23 And the whole assembly took counsel to prolong the feast another seven days; and they kept it another seven days with joy. 
2Chronicles30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah gave to the assembly 1,000 young bulls and 7,000 sheep, and the princes gave 1,000 young bulls and 10,000 sheep. And a great number of priests sanctified themselves [for service]." 
2Chronicles30:25 All the assembly of Judah, with the priests, the Levites, and all the assembly who with the sojourners came from the land of Israel to dwell in Judah, rejoiced." 
2Chronicles30:26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the time of Solomon son of David king of Israel there was nothing like this in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:27 Then the priests and Levites arose and blessed the people; and their voice was heard and their prayer came up to [God's] holy habitation in heaven. 
2Chronicles31:1 NOW WHEN all this was finished, all Israel present there went out to the cities of Judah and broke in pieces the pillars or obelisks, cut down the Asherim, and threw down the high places [of idolatry] and the altars in all Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had utterly destroyed them all. Then all the Israelites returned to their own cities, every man to his possession." 
2Chronicles31:2 And Hezekiah appointed the priests and the Levites after their divisions, each man according to his service, the priests and Levites for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister, to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the camp of the Lord." 
2Chronicles31:3 King Hezekiah's personal contribution was for the burnt offerings: [those] of morning and evening, for the Sabbaths, for the New Moons, and for the appointed feasts, as written in the Law of the Lord." 
2Chronicles31:4 He commanded the people living in Jerusalem to give the portion due the priests and Levites, that they might [be free to] give themselves to the Law of the Lord." 
2Chronicles31:5 As soon as the command went abroad, the Israelites gave in abundance the firstfruits of grain, vintage fruit, oil, honey, and of all the produce of the field; and they brought in abundantly the tithe of everything." 
2Chronicles31:6 The people of Israel and Judah who lived in Judah's cities also brought the tithe of cattle and sheep and of the dedicated things which were consecrated to the Lord their God, and they laid them in heaps." 
2Chronicles31:7 In the third month [at the end of wheat harvest] they began to lay the foundation or beginning of the heaps and finished them in the seventh month. 
2Chronicles31:8 When Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord and His people Israel." 
2Chronicles31:9 Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and Levites about the heaps. 
2Chronicles31:10 Azariah the high priest, of the house of Zadok, answered him, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the Lord's house, we have eaten and have plenty left, for the Lord has blessed His people, and what is left is this great store." 
2Chronicles31:11 Then Hezekiah commanded them to prepare chambers [for storage] in the house of the Lord, and they prepared them" 
2Chronicles31:12 And brought in the offerings, tithes, and dedicated things faithfully. Conaniah the Levite was in charge of them, and Shimei his brother came next." 
2Chronicles31:13 And Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah were overseers directed by Conaniah and Shimei his brother, at the appointment of King Hezekiah and Azariah the chief officer of the house of God." 
2Chronicles31:14 Kore son of Imnah the Levite, keeper of the East Gate, was over the freewill offerings to God, to apportion the contributions of the Lord and the most holy things." 
2Chronicles31:15 Under him were Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the priests' cities, in their office of trust faithfully to give to their brethren by divisions, to great and small alike," 
2Chronicles31:16 Except those [Levites] registered as males from three years old and upward,who were consecrated to the temple service [in Jerusalem, for their daily portion] as the duty of every day required, for their service according to their offices by their divisions." 
2Chronicles31:17 The registration of the priests was according to their fathers' houses; that of the Levites from twenty years old and upward was according to their offices by their divisions; 
2Chronicles31:18 Also there was the registration of all their little ones, their wives, and their older sons and daughters through all the congregation. For in their office of trust they cleansed themselves and set themselves apart in holiness." 
2Chronicles31:19 Also for the sons of Aaron the priests, who were in the fields of the suburbs of their cities or in every city, there were men who were mentioned by name to give portions to all the males among the priests and to all who were registered among the Levites." 
2Chronicles31:20 Hezekiah did this throughout all Judah, and he did what was good, right, and faithful before the Lord his God." 
2Chronicles31:21 And every work that he began in the service of the house of God, in keeping with the law and the commandments to seek his God [inquiring of and yearning for Him], he did with all his heart, and he prospered." 
2Chronicles32:1 AFTER THESE things and this loyalty, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, invaded Judah, and encamped against the fortified cities, thinking to take them." 
2Chronicles32:2 When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and intended to fight against Jerusalem," 
2Chronicles32:3 He decided with his officers and his mighty men to stop up the waters of the fountains which were outside the city [by enclosing them with masonry and concealing them], and they helped him." 
2Chronicles32:4 So many people gathered, and they stopped up all the springs and the brook which flowed through the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water?" 
2Chronicles32:5 Also Hezekiah took courage and built up all the wall that was broken, and raised towers upon it, and he built another wall outside and strengthened the Millo in the City of David and made weapons and shields in abundance." 
2Chronicles32:6 And he set captains of war over the people and gathered them together to him in the street of the gate of the city and spoke encouragingly to them, saying," 
2Chronicles32:7 Be strong and courageous. Be not afraid or dismayed before the king of Assyria and all the horde that is with him, for there is Another with us greater than [all those] with him." 
2Chronicles32:8 With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. And the people relied on the words of Hezekiah king of Judah." 
2Chronicles32:9 And this Sennacherib king of Assyria, while he himself with all his forces was before Lachish, sent his servants to Jerusalem, to Hezekiah king of Judah, and to all Judah who were at Jerusalem, saying," 
2Chronicles32:10 Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria: On what do you trust, that you remain in the strongholds in Jerusalem?" 
2Chronicles32:11 Is not Hezekiah leading you on in order to let you die by famine and thirst, saying, The Lord our God will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria?" 
2Chronicles32:12 Has not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, You shall worship before one altar and burn incense upon it?" 
2Chronicles32:13 Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of other lands? Were the gods of the nations of those lands in any way able to deliver their lands out of my hand? 
2Chronicles32:14 Who among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly destroyed was able to deliver his people out of my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of my hand?" 
2Chronicles32:15 So now, do not let Hezekiah deceive or mislead you in this way, and do not believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of my hand or the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you out of my hand!" 
2Chronicles32:16 And his servants said still more against the Lord God and against His servant Hezekiah. 
2Chronicles32:17 The Assyrian king also wrote letters insulting the Lord, the God of Israel, and speaking against Him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other lands have not delivered their people out of my hand, so shall not the God of Hezekiah deliver His people out of my hand." 
2Chronicles32:18 And they shouted it loudly in the Jewish language to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to frighten and terrify them, that they might take the city." 
2Chronicles32:19 And they spoke of the God of Jerusalem as they spoke of the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are the work of the hands of men." 
2Chronicles32:20 For this cause Hezekiah the king and the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz prayed and cried to heaven. 
2Chronicles32:20 For this cause Hezekiah the king and the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz prayed and cried to heaven. 
2Chronicles32:21 And the Lord sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty warriors and commanders and officers in the camp of the king of Assyria. So the Assyrian king returned with shamed face to his own land. And when he came into the house of his god, they who were his own offspring slew him there with the sword. [II Kings 19:35-37.]" 
2Chronicles32:22 Thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria and from the hand of all his enemies, and He guided them on every side." 
2Chronicles32:23 And many brought gifts to Jerusalem to the Lord and presents to Hezekiah king of Judah; so from then on he was magnified in the sight of all nations. 
2Chronicles32:24 In those days Hezekiah was sick to the point of death; and he prayed to the Lord and He answered him and gave him a sign. 
2Chronicles32:25 But Hezekiah did not make return [to the Lord] according to the benefit done to him, for his heart became proud [at such a spectacular response to his prayer]; therefore there was wrath upon him and upon Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles32:26 But Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the Lord came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah." 
2Chronicles32:27 And Hezekiah had very great wealth and honor, and he made for himself treasuries for silver, gold, precious stones, spices, shields, and all kinds of attractive vessels," 
2Chronicles32:28 Storehouses also for the increase of grain, vintage fruits, and oil, and stalls for all kinds of cattle, and sheepfolds." 
2Chronicles32:29 Moreover, he provided for himself cities and flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him very great possessions." 
2Chronicles32:30 This same Hezekiah also closed the upper springs of Gihon and directed the waters down to the west side of the City of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works. 
2Chronicles32:31 And so in the matter of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon who were sent to him to inquire about the wonder that was done in the land, God left him to himself to try him, that He might know all that was in his heart. [Isa. 39:1-7.]" 
2Chronicles32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his good deeds, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, and in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his good deeds, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, and in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers and was buried in the ascent of the tombs of the descendants of David; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honor at his death. Manasseh his son reigned in his stead. 
2Chronicles33:1 MANASSEH WAS twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles33:2 But he did evil in the Lord's sight, like the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord drove out before the Israelites." 
2Chronicles33:3 For he built again the [idolatrous] high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down, and he reared altars for the Baals and made the Asherim and worshiped all the hosts of the heavens and served them." 
2Chronicles33:4 Also he built [heathen] altars in the Lord's house, of which the Lord had said, In Jerusalem shall My Name be forever." 
2Chronicles33:5 He built altars for all the hosts of the heavens in the two courts of the Lord's house. 
2Chronicles33:6 And he burned his children as an offering [to his god] in the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], and practiced soothsaying, augury, and sorcery, and dealt with mediums and wizards. He did much evil in the sight of the Lord, provoking Him to anger." 
2Chronicles33:7 And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the tribes of Israel, will I put My Name [and Presence] forever;" 
2Chronicles33:8 And I will no more remove Israel from the land which I appointed for your fathers, if they will only take heed to do all that I have commanded them, the whole law, the statutes, and the ordinances given through Moses." 
2Chronicles33:9 So Manasseh led Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to do more evil than the heathen whom the Lord had destroyed before the Israelites. 
2Chronicles33:10 The Lord spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they would not hearken." 
2Chronicles33:11 So the Lord brought against them the commanders of the host of the king of Assyria, who took Manasseh with hooks and in fetters and brought him to Babylon." 
2Chronicles33:12 When he was in affliction, he besought the Lord his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers." 
2Chronicles33:13 He prayed to Him, and God, entreated by him, heard his supplication and brought him again to Jerusalem to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord is God." 
2Chronicles33:14 And he built an outer wall to the City of David west of Gihon in the valley, to the entrance of the Fish Gate, and ran it around Ophel, raising it to a very great height; and he put commanders of the army in all the fortified cities of Judah." 
2Chronicles33:15 And he took away the foreign gods and the idol out of the house of the Lord and all the altars that he had built on the mount of the house of the Lord and in Jerusalem; and he cast them out of the city. 
2Chronicles33:16 And he restored the Lord's altar and sacrificed on it offerings of peace and of thanksgiving; and he commanded Judah to serve the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:17 Yet the people still sacrificed in the high places, but only to the Lord their God." 
2Chronicles33:18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:19 His prayer and how God heard him, and all his sins and unfaithfulness, and the sites on which he built high places and set up the Asherim and graven images before he humbled himself, behold, they are written in the Chronicles of the Seers." 
2Chronicles33:20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house [garden]. And Amon his son reigned in his stead." 
2Chronicles33:21 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began his two-year reign in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles33:22 But he did evil in the sight of the Lord, as did Manasseh his father; for Amon sacrificed to all the images which Manasseh his father had made, and served them," 
2Chronicles33:23 And he did not humble himself before the Lord, as Manasseh his father [finally] did; but Amon trespassed and became more and more guilty." 
2Chronicles33:24 And his servants conspired against him and killed him in his own house. 
2Chronicles33:25 But the people of the land slew all those who had conspired against King Amon, and they made Josiah his son king in his stead." 
2Chronicles34:1 JOSIAH WAS eight years old when he began his thirty-one-year reign in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:2 He did right in the sight of the Lord and walked in the ways of David his father [forefather] and turned aside neither to the right hand nor to the left. 
2Chronicles34:3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young [sixteen], he began to seek after and yearn for the God of David his father [forefather]; and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, and the carved and molten images." 
2Chronicles34:4 They broke down the altars of the Baals in his presence; the sun-images that were high above them he hewed down; the Asherim and the graven images and the molten images he broke in pieces and made dust of them and strewed it upon the graves of those who sacrificed to them. 
2Chronicles34:5 Josiah burned the bones of the [idolatrous] priests upon their altars, and so cleansed Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles34:6 So he did in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, and Simeon, even to Naphtali, in their ruins round about [with their axes]," 
2Chronicles34:7 He broke down the altars and the Asherim and beat the graven images into powder and hewed down all the sun-images throughout all the land of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:8 In the eighteenth year of Josiah's reign, when he had purged the land and the [Lord's] house, he sent Shaphan son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah governor of the city, and Joah son of Joahaz, the recorder, to repair the house of the Lord his God." 
2Chronicles34:9 When they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the money that had been brought into the house of God, which the Levites who kept the doors had collected from Manasseh, Ephraim, all the remnant of Israel, and from all Judah, Benjamin, and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles34:10 They delivered it to the workmen who had oversight of the Lord's house, who gave it to repair and restore the temple:" 
2Chronicles34:11 To the carpenters and builders to buy hewn stone, and timber for couplings and beams for the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed [by neglect]." 
2Chronicles34:12 The men did the work faithfully. Their overseers were Jahath and Obadiah, Levites of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites. The Levites,all who were skillful with instruments of music," 
2Chronicles34:12 The men did the work faithfully. Their overseers were Jahath and Obadiah, Levites of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites. The Levites,all who were skillful with instruments of music," 
2Chronicles34:12 The men did the work faithfully. Their overseers were Jahath and Obadiah, Levites of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites. The Levites,all who were skillful with instruments of music," 
2Chronicles34:13 Also had oversight of the burden bearers and all who did work in any kind of service; and some of the Levites were scribes, officials, and gatekeepers." 
2Chronicles34:14 When they were bringing out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found the Book of the Law of the Lord given by Moses." 
2Chronicles34:15 Hilkiah told Shaphan the scribe, I have found the Book of the Law in the Lord's house. And [he] gave the book to Shaphan." 
2Chronicles34:16 Shaphan took the book to King Josiah, but [first] reported to him, All that was committed to your servants they are doing." 
2Chronicles34:17 They have emptied out the money that was found in the house of the Lord and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and the workmen. 
2Chronicles34:18 Then Shaphan the scribe said to the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king." 
2Chronicles34:19 When King Josiah had heard the words of the Law, he rent his clothes." 
2Chronicles34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Abdon son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a servant of the king, saying," 
2Chronicles34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Abdon son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a servant of the king, saying," 
2Chronicles34:21 Go, inquire of the Lord for me and for those who are left in Israel and in Judah about the words of the book that is found. For great is the Lord's wrath that is poured out on us because our fathers have not kept the word of the Lord, to do according to all that is written in this book." 
2Chronicles34:22 And Hilkiah and they whom the king had appointed went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe. She dwelt in Jerusalem, in the Second Quarter. They spoke to her to that effect." 
2Chronicles34:23 And she answered them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Tell the man who sent you to me," 
2Chronicles34:24 Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon its inhabitants, even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read before the king of Judah." 
2Chronicles34:25 Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore My wrath shall be poured out upon this place and shall not be quenched." 
2Chronicles34:26 But say to King Josiah of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the words which you have heard:" 
2Chronicles34:27 Because your heart was tender and penitent and you humbled yourself before God when you heard His words against this place and its inhabitants, and humbled yourself before Me and rent your clothes and wept before Me, I have heard you, says the Lord." 
2Chronicles34:28 Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the evil that I will bring upon this place and its inhabitants. So they brought the king word again." 
2Chronicles34:29 Then King Josiah sent and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:30 And [he] went up into the house of the Lord, as did all the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the priests, the Levites, and all the people, great and small; and he [the king] read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant that was found in the Lord's house." 
2Chronicles34:31 Then the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord,to walk after the Lord and to keep His commandments, His testimonies, and His statutes with all his heart and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that are written in this book." 
2Chronicles34:32 And he caused all who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand in confirmation of it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles34:33 Josiah removed all the [idolatrous] abominations from all the territory that belonged to the Israelites, and made all who were in Israel serve the Lord their God. All his days they did not turn from following the Lord, the God of their fathers." 
2Chronicles35:1 JOSIAH KEPT the Passover to the Lord in Jerusalem; they killed the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
2Chronicles35:2 He appointed the priests to their positions and encouraged them in the service of the house of the Lord. 
2Chronicles35:3 To the Levites who taught all Israel and were holy to the Lord he said: Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon son of David king of Israel, built; it shall no longer be a burden carried on your shoulders. Now serve the Lord your God and His people Israel." 
2Chronicles35:4 Prepare yourselves according to your fathers' houses by your divisions, after the directions of David king of Israel and of Solomon his son." 
2Chronicles35:5 And stand in the holy court of the priests according to the sections of the fathers' families of your kinsmen, the common people, and let there be a section of the Levites [to attend] to each division of the families of the people." 
2Chronicles35:6 Kill the Passover lambs and sanctify yourselves and prepare for your brethren to do according to the word of the Lord by Moses. 
2Chronicles35:7 Then Josiah contributed to the lay people lambs and kids of the flock as Passover offerings for all who were present, to the number of 30,000, and 3,000 young bulls,all from the king's possessions." 
2Chronicles35:8 And his princes gave for a freewill offering to the people, to the priests, and the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, chief officers of God's house, gave the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600 [lambs and kids] and 300 bulls." 
2Chronicles35:8 And his princes gave for a freewill offering to the people, to the priests, and the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, chief officers of God's house, gave the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600 [lambs and kids] and 300 bulls." 
2Chronicles35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel his brothers, and Hashabiah, Jeiel, and Jozabad, chiefs of the Levites, gave to the Levites for Passover offerings 5,000 [lambs and kids] and 500 bulls." 
2Chronicles35:10 When the service was ready, the priests stood in their place and the Levites in their divisions as the king commanded." 
2Chronicles35:11 They killed the Passover lambs, and the priests sprinkled the blood they received from the Levites who skinned the animals." 
2Chronicles35:12 Then they removed the burnt offerings, that they might distribute them according to the divisions of the lay families to offer to the Lord, as directed in the Book of Moses. And so they did with the bulls." 
2Chronicles35:13 And they roasted the Passover lambs with fire according to the ordinance; and they cooked the holy offerings in pots, in caldrons, and in pans and carried them quickly to all the people." 
2Chronicles35:14 Afterward [the Levites] prepared for themselves and the priests, because the priests, the sons of Aaron, were busy in offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night; so the Levites prepared for themselves and also for the priests, the sons of Aaron." 
2Chronicles35:15 The singers, the sons of Asaph, were in their places according to the command of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer. And the gatekeepers were at every gate; they did not need to leave their service, for their brethren the Levites prepared for them." 
2Chronicles35:16 So all the Lord's service was prepared the same day to keep the Passover and to offer burnt offerings upon the Lord's altar, as King Josiah commanded." 
2Chronicles35:17 And the Israelites who were present kept the Passover at that time, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days." 
2Chronicles35:18 No Passover like it had been kept in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet, even by any of the kings of Israel, as was kept by Josiah and the priests, the Levites, and all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles35:19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah this Passover was kept. 
2Chronicles35:20 After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Neco king of Egypt went out to fight against Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah went out against him." 
2Chronicles35:21 But [Neco] sent ambassadors to [Josiah], saying, What have I to do with you, you king of Judah? I come not against you this day, but against the house with which I am at war; and God has commanded me to make haste. Refrain from opposing God, Who is with me, lest He destroy you." 
2Chronicles35:22 Yet Josiah would not turn away from him, but disguised himself in order to fight with him. He did not heed the words of Neco from the mouth of God, but came to fight with him in the valley of Megiddo." 
2Chronicles35:23 And the archers shot King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, Take me away, for I am severely wounded." 
2Chronicles35:24 So his servants took him out of the chariot and put him in his second chariot and brought him to Jerusalem. And he died and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. 
2Chronicles35:25 Jeremiah gave a lament for Josiah, and all the singing men and women have spoken of Josiah in their laments to this day. They made them an ordinance in Israel; behold, they are written in the Laments. [Lam. 4:20.]" 
2Chronicles35:25 Jeremiah gave a lament for Josiah, and all the singing men and women have spoken of Josiah in their laments to this day. They made them an ordinance in Israel; behold, they are written in the Laments. [Lam. 4:20.]" 
2Chronicles35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and his deeds, according to what is written in the Law of the Lord," 
2Chronicles35:27 And his acts, from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah." 
2Chronicles36:1 THEN THE people of the land took Jehoahaz son of Josiah and made him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles36:2 Jehoahaz was [then] twenty-three years old; he reigned three months in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles36:3 Then the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem and fined the land a hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. 
2Chronicles36:4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim, Jehoahaz' brother, king over Judah and Jerusalem and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But Neco took Jehoahaz his brother and carried him to Egypt." 
2Chronicles36:5 Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. He did evil in the sight of the Lord his God." 
2Chronicles36:6 Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and bound him in fetters to take him to Babylon. 
2Chronicles36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also took some of the vessels of the house of the Lord to Babylon and put them in his temple or palace there. 
2Chronicles36:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and the abominations which he did, and what was found against him, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead." 
2Chronicles36:9 Jehoiachin was eight[een] years old then; he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem. He did evil in the Lord's sight. [II Kings 24:8.] 
2Chronicles36:10 In the spring, King Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon, with the precious vessels of the house of the Lord, and made Zedekiah the [boy's] brother king over Judah and Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:11 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:12 He did evil in the sight of the Lord his God and did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke at the dictation of the Lord." 
2Chronicles36:12 He did evil in the sight of the Lord his God and did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke at the dictation of the Lord." 
2Chronicles36:13 He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who made him swear by God. He stiffened his neck and hardened his heart against turning to the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles36:14 Also all the chiefs of the priests and the people trespassed greatly in accord with all the abominations of the heathen, and they polluted the house of the Lord which He had hallowed in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles36:15 And the Lord, the God of their fathers, sent to them persistently by His messengers, because He had compassion on His people and on His dwelling place." 
2Chronicles36:16 But they kept mocking the messengers of God and despising His words and scoffing at His prophets till the wrath of the Lord rose against His people, till there was no remedy or healing." 
2Chronicles36:17 Therefore He brought against them the king of the Chaldeans, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion on young man or virgin, old man or hoary-headed; He gave them all into his hand." 
2Chronicles36:18 And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the Lord's house, of the king, and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon." 
2Chronicles36:19 And they burned God's house and broke down Jerusalem's wall and burned all its palaces with fire and destroyed all its choice vessels. 
2Chronicles36:20 Those who had escaped from the sword he took away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and his sons until the kingdom of Persia was established there," 
2Chronicles36:21 To fulfill the Lord's word by Jeremiah, till the land had enjoyed its sabbaths; for as long as it lay desolate it kept sabbath to fulfill seventy years. [Lev. 25:4; 26:43; Jer. 25:11; 29:10.]" 
2Chronicles36:21 To fulfill the Lord's word by Jeremiah, till the land had enjoyed its sabbaths; for as long as it lay desolate it kept sabbath to fulfill seventy years. [Lev. 25:4; 26:43; Jer. 25:11; 29:10.]" 
2Chronicles36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and also put it in writing:" 
2Chronicles36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and also put it in writing:" 
2Chronicles36:23 Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: All the kingdoms of the earth the Lord, the God of heaven, has given me, and He has charged me to build Him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all His people, may the Lord his God be with him, and let him go up [to Jerusalem]." 
Ezra1:1 NOW IN the first year of Cyrus king of Persia [almost seventy years after the first Jewish captives were taken to Babylon], that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might begin to be accomplished, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing: [Jer. 29:10-14.]" 
Ezra1:1 NOW IN the first year of Cyrus king of Persia [almost seventy years after the first Jewish captives were taken to Babylon], that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might begin to be accomplished, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing: [Jer. 29:10-14.]" 
Ezra1:2 Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and He has charged me to build Him a house at Jerusalem in Judah." 
Ezra1:3 Whoever is among you of all His people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem in Judah and re build the house of the Lord, the God of Israel, in Jerusalem; He is God." 
Ezra1:4 And in any place where a survivor [of the Babylonian captivity of the Jews] sojourns, let the men of that place assist him with silver and gold, with goods and beasts, besides freewill offerings for the house of God in Jerusalem." 
Ezra1:5 Then rose up the heads of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests and Levites, with all those whose spirits God had stirred up, to go up to re build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem." 
Ezra1:6 And all those who were around them aided them with vessels of silver, with gold, goods, beasts, and precious things, besides all that was willingly and freely offered." 
Ezra1:7 Also Cyrus the king brought out the vessels of the house of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought from Jerusalem [when he took that city] and had put in the house of his gods." 
Ezra1:8 These Cyrus king of Persia directed Mithredath the treasurer to bring forth and count out to Sheshbazzar [who is Zerubbabel, recognized as the legitimate heir to the throne of David] the prince of Judah." 
Ezra1:9 And they numbered: 30 basins of gold; 1,000 basins of silver; 29 sacrificial dishes;" 
Ezra1:10 Of gold bowls, 30; another sort of silver bowl, 410; and other vessels, 1,000." 
Ezra1:11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were 5,400. All these Sheshbazzar [the governor] brought with the people of the captivity from Babylon to Jerusalem." 
Ezra2:1 NOW THESE are the people of the province [of Judah] who went up out of the captivity of those exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, but who came again to Jerusalem and Judah, everyone to his own city." 
Ezra2:2 These came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah [not the author], Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai [not Esther's relative], Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of Israel:" 
Ezra2:2 These came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah [not the author], Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai [not Esther's relative], Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of Israel:" 
Ezra2:2 These came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah [not the author], Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai [not Esther's relative], Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of Israel:" 
Ezra2:3 The sons [meaning male descendants] of Parosh, 2,172." 
Ezra2:4 The sons of Shephatiah, 372." 
Ezra2:5 The sons of Arah, 775." 
Ezra2:6 The sons of Pahath-moab, namely of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,812." 
Ezra2:7 The sons of Elam, 1,254." 
Ezra2:8 The sons of Zattu, 945." 
Ezra2:9 The sons of Zaccai, 760." 
Ezra2:10 The sons of Bani, 642." 
Ezra2:11 The sons of Bebai, 623." 
Ezra2:12 The sons of Azgad, 1,222." 
Ezra2:13 The sons of Adonikam, 666." 
Ezra2:14 The sons of Bigvai, 2,056." 
Ezra2:15 The sons of Adin, 454." 
Ezra2:16 The sons of Ater, namely of Hezekiah, 98." 
Ezra2:17 The sons of Bezai, 323." 
Ezra2:18 The sons of Jorah, 112." 
Ezra2:19 The sons of Hashum, 223." 
Ezra2:20 The sons of Gibbar, 95." 
Ezra2:21 The sons of Bethlehem, 123." 
Ezra2:22 The men of Netophah, 56." 
Ezra2:23 The men of Anathoth, 128." 
Ezra2:24 The sons of Azmaveth, 42." 
Ezra2:25 The sons of Kiriath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743." 
Ezra2:26 The sons of Ramah and Geba, 621." 
Ezra2:27 The men of Michmas, 122." 
Ezra2:28 The men of Bethel and Ai, 223." 
Ezra2:29 The sons of Nebo, 52." 
Ezra2:30 The sons of Magbish, 156." 
Ezra2:31 The sons of the other Elam, 1,254." 
Ezra2:32 The sons of Harim, 320." 
Ezra2:33 The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, 725." 
Ezra2:34 The sons of Jericho, 345." 
Ezra2:35 The sons of Senaah, 3,630." 
Ezra2:36 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, 973." 
Ezra2:37 The sons of Immer, 1,052." 
Ezra2:38 The sons of Pashhur, 1,247." 
Ezra2:39 The sons of Harim, 1,017." 
Ezra2:40 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the house of Hodaviah, 74." 
Ezra2:41 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 128." 
Ezra2:42 The sons of the gatekeepers: of Shallum, Ater, Talmon, Akkub, Hatita, and Shobai, in all 139." 
Ezra2:43 The Nethinim [the temple servants]: the sons of Ziba, Hasupha, Tabbaoth," 
Ezra2:44 The sons of Keros, Siaha, Padon," 
Ezra2:45 The sons of Lebanah, Hagabah, Akkub," 
Ezra2:46 The sons of Hagab, Shalmai, Hanan," 
Ezra2:47 The sons of Giddel, Gahar, Reaiah," 
Ezra2:48 The sons of Rezin, Nekoda, Gazzam," 
Ezra2:49 The sons of Uzza, Paseah, Besai," 
Ezra2:50 The sons of Asnah, Meunim, Nephisim," 
Ezra2:51 The sons of Bakbuk, Hakupha, Harhur," 
Ezra2:52 The sons of Bazluth, Mehida, Harsha," 
Ezra2:53 The sons of Barkos, Sisera, Temah," 
Ezra2:54 The sons of Neziah [and] of Hatipha. 
Ezra2:55 The sons of [King] Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, Sophereth (Hassophereth), Peruda," 
Ezra2:56 The sons of Jaalah, Darkon, Giddel," 
Ezra2:57 The sons of Shephatiah, Hattil, Pochereth-hazzebaim, Ami." 
Ezra2:58 All the Nethinim [the temple servants] and the sons of Solomon's servants were 392. 
Ezra2:59 And these were they who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they could not show a record of their fathers' houses or prove their descent, whether they were of Israel:" 
Ezra2:60 The sons of Delaiah, Tobiah, and Nekoda, 652." 
Ezra2:61 And of the sons of the priests: the sons of Habaiah, of Hakkoz, and of Barzillai, who had taken a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the [noted] Gileadite and had assumed their name. [II Sam. 17:27, 28; 19:31-39.]" 
Ezra2:62 These sought their names among those enrolled in the genealogies, but they were not found; so they were excluded from the priesthood as [ceremonially] unclean." 
Ezra2:63 [Zerubbabel] the governor told them they should not eat of the most holy things [the priests' food] until there should be a priest with Urim and Thummim [who by consulting these articles in his breastplate could know God's will in the matter]. 
Ezra2:64 The whole congregation numbered 42,360," 
Ezra2:65 Besides their menservants and maidservants, 7,337; and among them they had 200 men and women singers." 
Ezra2:66 Their horses were 736; their mules, 245;" 
Ezra2:67 Their camels were 435; their donkeys, 6,720." 
Ezra2:68 Some of the heads of families, when they came to the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, made freewill offerings for the house of God to [re]build it on its site." 
Ezra2:69 They gave as they were able to the treasury for the work 61,000 darics of gold, 5,000 minas of silver, and 100 priests' garments." 
Ezra2:70 So the priests, the Levites, some of the people, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple servants lived in their own towns, and all Israel [gradually settled] into their towns." 
Ezra3:1 WHEN THE seventh month came and the Israelites were in the towns, the people gathered together as one man to Jerusalem." 
Ezra3:2 Then stood up Jeshua son of Jozadak, and his brethren the priests, and Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and his brethren, and they built the altar of the God of Israel to offer burnt offerings upon it, as it is written in the instructions of Moses the man of God." 
Ezra3:3 And they set the altar [in its place] upon its base, for fear was upon them because of the peoples of the countries; and they offered burnt offerings on it to the Lord morning and evening." 
Ezra3:4 They kept also the Feast of Tabernacles, as it is written, and offered the daily burnt offerings by number according to the ordinances, as each day's duty required," 
Ezra3:5 And after that, the continual burnt offering, the offering at the New Moon, and at all the appointed feasts of the Lord, and the offerings of everyone who made a freewill offering to the Lord." 
Ezra3:6 From the first day of the seventh month they began to offer burnt offerings to the Lord, but the foundation of the temple of the Lord was not yet laid." 
Ezra3:7 They gave money also to the masons and to the carpenters, and gave food, drink, and oil to the Sidonians and the Tyrians, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the seaport of Joppa, according to the grant they had from Cyrus king of Persia." 
Ezra3:8 In the second year of their coming to God's house at Jerusalem, in the second month, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and Jeshua son of Jozadak made a beginning, with the rest of their brethren,the priests and Levites and all who had come to Jerusalem out of the captivity. They appointed the Levites from twenty years old and upward to oversee the work of the Lord's house." 
Ezra3:9 Then Jeshua with his sons and his kinsmen, Kadmiel and his sons, sons of Judah, together took the oversight of the workmen in the house of God,the sons of Henadad, with their sons and Levite kinsmen." 
Ezra3:10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord, the priests stood in their vestments with trumpets, and the Levite sons of Asaph with their cymbals, to praise the Lord, after the order of David king of Israel." 
Ezra3:11 They sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the Lord, saying, For He is good, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever toward Israel. And all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised the Lord, because the foundation of the house of the Lord was laid!" 
Ezra3:12 But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' houses, old men who had seen the first house [Solomon's temple], when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice, though many shouted aloud for joy." 
Ezra3:13 So the people could not distinguish the shout of joy from the sound of the weeping of the people, for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the sound was heard far off." 
Ezra4:1 NOW WHEN [the Samaritans] the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the exiles from the captivity were building a temple to the Lord, the God of Israel," 
Ezra4:2 They came to Zerubbabel [now governor] and to the heads of the fathers' houses and said, Let us build with you, for we seek and worship your God as you do, and we have sacrificed to Him since the days of Esarhaddon king of Assyria, who brought us here. [II Kings 17:24-29.]" 
Ezra4:3 But Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the rest of the heads of fathers' houses of Israel said to them, You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves will together build to the Lord, the God of Israel, as King Cyrus, the king of Persia, has commanded us." 
Ezra4:4 Then [the Samaritans] the people of the land [continually] weakened the hands of the people of Judah and troubled and terrified them in building 
Ezra4:5 And hired counselors against them to frustrate their purpose and plans all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius [II] king of Persia." 
Ezra4:6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus [or Xerxes], in the beginning of his reign, [the Samaritans] wrote to him an accusation against the [returned] inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem." 
Ezra4:7 Later, in the days of King Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of their associates wrote to Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the letter was written in the Syrian or Aramaic script and interpreted in that language." 
Ezra4:8 Rehum the [Persian] commander [of the Samaritans] and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king of this sort, 
Ezra4:9 Then wrote Rehum the [Persian] commander, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their associates,the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the Dehaites, the Elamites," 
Ezra4:10 And the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnappar deported and settled in the city of Samaria and the rest of the country beyond [west of] the Euphrates River, and so forth." 
Ezra4:11 This is a copy of the letter which they sent to King Artaxerxes: Your servants, the men beyond [that is, west of] the River [Euphrates], and so forth." 
Ezra4:12 Be it known to the king that the Jews who came up from you to us have come to Jerusalem. This rebellious and bad city they are rebuilding, and have restored its walls and repaired the foundations." 
Ezra4:13 Be it known now to the king that if this city is rebuilt and the walls finished, then they will not pay tribute, custom, or toll, and the royal revenue will be diminished." 
Ezra4:14 Now because we eat the salt of the king's palace and it is not proper for us to witness the king's discredit, therefore we send to inform the king," 
Ezra4:15 In order that a search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers, in which you will learn that this is a rebellious city, hurtful to kings and provinces, and that sedition was stirred up in it of old. That is why [it] was laid waste." 
Ezra4:16 We declare to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls finished, it will mean that you will have no portion on this side of the [Euphrates] River." 
Ezra4:17 Then the king sent an answer: To Rehum the [Persian] official, to Shimshai the scribe, to the rest of their companions who dwell in Samaria and in the rest of the country beyond the River: Greetings." 
Ezra4:18 The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me. 
Ezra4:19 I commanded and search has been made, and it is found that this city [Jerusalem] of old time has made insurrection against kings and that rebellion and sedition have been made in it." 
Ezra4:20 There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem who have ruled over all countries beyond [west of] the [Euphrates] River, and tribute, custom, and toll were paid to them." 
Ezra4:21 Therefore give a decree to make these men stop, that this city not be rebuilt, until a command is given by me." 
Ezra4:22 Be sure that you do this. Why should damage grow, to the hurt of the kings?" 
Ezra4:23 When the copy of King Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum, Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews and by force and power made them cease." 
Ezra4:24 Then the work on the house of God in Jerusalem stopped. It stopped until the second year of Darius [I] king of Persia. 
Ezra5:1 NOW THE prophets, Haggai and Zechariah son [grandson] of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, Whose [Spirit] was upon them." 
Ezra5:1 NOW THE prophets, Haggai and Zechariah son [grandson] of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, Whose [Spirit] was upon them." 
Ezra5:1 NOW THE prophets, Haggai and Zechariah son [grandson] of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, Whose [Spirit] was upon them." 
Ezra5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel [heir to the throne of Judah] and Jeshua son of Jozadak and began to build the house of God in Jerusalem; and with them were the prophets of God [Haggai and Zechariah], helping them. [Hag. 1:12-14; Matt. 1:12, 13.]" 
Ezra5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel [heir to the throne of Judah] and Jeshua son of Jozadak and began to build the house of God in Jerusalem; and with them were the prophets of God [Haggai and Zechariah], helping them. [Hag. 1:12-14; Matt. 1:12, 13.]" 
Ezra5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel [heir to the throne of Judah] and Jeshua son of Jozadak and began to build the house of God in Jerusalem; and with them were the prophets of God [Haggai and Zechariah], helping them. [Hag. 1:12-14; Matt. 1:12, 13.]" 
Ezra5:3 Then Tattenai, governor on the west side of the [Euphrates] River, and Shethar-bozenai and their companions came to them and said, Who authorized you to build this house and to restore this wall?" 
Ezra5:4 Then we told them [in reply] the names of the men who were building this building. 
Ezra5:5 But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, so the enemy could not make them stop until the matter came before Darius [I] and an answer was returned by letter concerning it." 
Ezra5:6 This is a copy of the letter that Tattenai, governor on this side of the River, and Shethar-bozenai and his associates, the Apharsachites who were on this [west] side of the River, sent to Darius [I] the king." 
Ezra5:7 They wrote: To Darius the king: All peace. 
Ezra5:8 Be it known to the king that we went to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God. It is being built with huge stones, with timber laid in the walls; this work goes on with diligence and care and prospers in their hands." 
Ezra5:9 Then we asked those elders, Who authorized you to build this house and restore these walls?" 
Ezra5:10 We asked their names also, that we might record the names of the men at their head and notify you." 
Ezra5:11 They replied, We are servants of the God of heaven and earth, rebuilding the house which was erected and finished many years ago by a great king of Israel." 
Ezra5:12 But after our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to wrath, He gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried the people away into Babylon." 
Ezra5:13 But in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, the same King Cyrus made a decree to rebuild this house of God." 
Ezra5:14 And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took from the temple in Jerusalem and brought into the temple of Babylon, King Cyrus took from the temple of Babylon and delivered to a man named Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor." 
Ezra5:15 And King Cyrus said to him, Go, take these vessels to Jerusalem and carry them into the temple, and let the house of God be built upon its site." 
Ezra5:16 Then came this Sheshbazzar and laid the foundation of the house of God in Jerusalem; and since that time until now it has been in the process of being rebuilt and is not completed yet. 
Ezra5:17 So now, if it seems good to the king, let a search be made in the royal archives there in Babylon to see if it is true that King Cyrus issued a decree to build this house of God at Jerusalem; and let the king send us his pleasure in this matter." 
Ezra6:1 THEN KING Darius [I] decreed, and a search was made in Babylonia in the house where the treasured records were stored." 
Ezra6:2 And at Ecbatana in the capital in the province of Media, a scroll was found on which this was recorded:" 
Ezra6:3 In the first year of King Cyrus, [he] made a decree: Concerning the house of God in Jerusalem, let the house, the place where they offer sacrifices, be built, and let its foundations be strongly laid, its height and its breadth each 60 cubits," 
Ezra6:4 With three courses of great stones and one course of new timber. Let the cost be paid from the royal treasury. 
Ezra6:5 Also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took from the temple in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be restored and brought back to the temple in Jerusalem, each put in its place in the house of God." 
Ezra6:6 Now therefore, Tattenai, governor of the province [west of] the River, Shethar-bozenai, and your associates, the Apharsachites who are [west of] the River, keep far away from there." 
Ezra6:7 Leave the work on this house of God alone; let the governor and the elders of the Jews build this house of God on its site. 
Ezra6:8 Moreover, I make a decree as to what you shall do for these elders of the Jews for the rebuilding of this house of God: the cost is to be paid in full to these men at once from the king's revenue, the tribute of the province [west of] the River, that they may not be hindered." 
Ezra6:9 And all they need, including young bulls, rams, and lambs for the burnt offerings to the God of heaven, and wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the word of the priests at Jerusalem, let it be given them each day without fail," 
Ezra6:10 That they may offer pleasing sacrifices to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons. 
Ezra6:11 Also I make a decree that whoever shall change or infringe on this order, let a beam be pulled from his house and erected; then let him be fastened to it, and let his house be made a dunghill for this." 
Ezra6:12 May the God Who has caused His Name to dwell there overthrow all kings and peoples who put forth their hands to alter this or to destroy this house of God in Jerusalem. I Darius make a decree; let it be executed speedily and exactly. 
Ezra6:13 Then Tattenai, governor of the province this side of the River, with Shethar-bozenai and their associates, diligently did what King Darius had decreed." 
Ezra6:14 And the elders of the Jews built and prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah son of Iddo. They finished their building as commanded by the God of Israel and by decree of Cyrus and Darius and Artaxerxes king of Persia. 
Ezra6:14 And the elders of the Jews built and prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah son of Iddo. They finished their building as commanded by the God of Israel and by decree of Cyrus and Darius and Artaxerxes king of Persia. 
Ezra6:14 And the elders of the Jews built and prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah son of Iddo. They finished their building as commanded by the God of Israel and by decree of Cyrus and Darius and Artaxerxes king of Persia. 
Ezra6:15 And this house was finished on the third day of the month of Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of King Darius." 
Ezra6:16 And the Israelites,the priests, the Levites, and the rest of the returned exiles,celebrated the dedication of this house of God with joy." 
Ezra6:17 They offered at the dedication of this house of God 100 young bulls, 200 rams, 400 lambs, and, for a sin offering for all Israel, 12 he-goats, according to the number of Israel's tribes." 
Ezra6:18 And they set the priests in their divisions and the Levites in their courses for the service of God at Jerusalem, as it is written in the Book of Moses." 
Ezra6:19 The returned exiles kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
Ezra6:20 For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together; all of them were clean. So they killed the Passover lamb for all the returned exiles, for their brother priests, and for themselves." 
Ezra6:21 It was eaten by the Israelites who had returned from exile and by all who had joined them and separated themselves from the pollutions of the peoples of the land to seek the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Ezra6:22 They kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria [referring to Darius king of Persia] to them, so that he strengthened their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel." 
Ezra7:1 NOW AFTER this, in the reign of Artaxerxes [son of Xerxes, or Ahasuerus] king of Persia, Ezra son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah," 
Ezra7:2 The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub," 
Ezra7:3 The son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth," 
Ezra7:4 The son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki," 
Ezra7:5 The son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest," 
Ezra7:6 This Ezra went up from Babylon. He was a skilled scribe in the five books of Moses, which the Lord, the God of Israel, had given. And the king granted him all he asked, for the hand of the Lord his God was upon him." 
Ezra7:7 And also some of the Israelites, with some of the priests and Levites, the singers and gatekeepers, and the temple servants, went up [from Babylon] to Jerusalem in the seventh year of King Artaxerxes." 
Ezra7:8 Ezra came to Jerusalem in the fifth month of the seventh year of the king. 
Ezra7:9 On the first of the first month he started out from Babylon, and on the first of the fifth month he arrived in Jerusalem, for upon him was the good hand of his God." 
Ezra7:10 For Ezra had prepared and set his heart to seek the Law of the Lord [to inquire for it and of it, to require and yearn for it], and to do and teach in Israel its statutes and its ordinances." 
Ezra7:11 Now this is the copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even a scribe [occupied with] the words of the commands of the Lord and of His statutes to Israel:" 
Ezra7:12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, scribe of the instructions of the God of heaven: Greetings." 
Ezra7:13 I make a decree that all of the people of Israel and of their priests and Levites in my realm, who offer freely to go up to Jerusalem, may go with you." 
Ezra7:14 For you are sent by the king and his seven counselors to inquire about Judah and Jerusalem according to the instruction of your God, which is in your hand," 
Ezra7:15 And to carry the silver and gold which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, Whose dwelling is in Jerusalem," 
Ezra7:16 And all the silver and gold that you may find in all the province of Babylonia, with the freewill offerings of the people and of the priests, offered willingly for the house of their God in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:17 Therefore you shall with all speed and exactness buy with this money young bulls, rams, lambs, with their cereal offerings and drink offerings, and offer them on the altar of the house of your God in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:18 And whatever shall seem good to you and to your brethren to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do after the will of your God." 
Ezra7:19 The vessels also that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, those deliver before the God of Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:20 And whatever more shall be needful for the house of your God which you shall have occasion to provide, provide it out of the king's treasury." 
Ezra7:21 And I, Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers in the province beyond the [Euphrates] River that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the instructions of the God of heaven, shall require of you, it shall be done exactly and at once," 
Ezra7:22 Up to 100 talents of silver, 100 measures of wheat, 100 baths of wine, 100 baths of oil, and salt not specified." 
Ezra7:23 Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done diligently and honorably for the house of the God of heaven, lest His wrath be against the realm of the king and his sons." 
Ezra7:24 Also we notify you that as to any of the priests and Levites, singers, gatekeepers, temple servants, or other servants of this house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll on them." 
Ezra7:25 You, Ezra, after the wisdom of your God, which is [in His instructions] in your hand, set magistrates and judges who may judge all the people [west] of the River; choose those who know the instructions of your God, and teach him who does not know them." 
Ezra7:26 And whoever will not do the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be executed upon him exactly and speedily, whether it be unto death or banishment or confiscation of goods or imprisonment." 
Ezra7:27 Blessed be the Lord, the God of our fathers [said Ezra], Who put such a thing as this into the king's heart, to beautify the house of the Lord in Jerusalem," 
Ezra7:28 And Who has extended His mercy and steadfast love to me before the king, his counselors, and all the king's mighty officers. I was strengthened and encouraged, for the hand of the Lord my God was upon me, and I gathered together outstanding men of Israel to go with me to Jerusalem." 
Ezra8:1 THESE ARE the heads of their fathers' houses and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylonia in the reign of King Artaxerxes: 
Ezra8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom; of Ithamar, Daniel; of David, Hattush" 
Ezra8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom; of Ithamar, Daniel; of David, Hattush" 
Ezra8:3 Of the sons of Shecaniah; of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah, and with him were registered 150 men by genealogy;" 
Ezra8:3 Of the sons of Shecaniah; of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah, and with him were registered 150 men by genealogy;" 
Ezra8:4 Of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai son of Zerahiah, with 200 men;" 
Ezra8:5 Of the sons of Zattu, Shecaniah son of Jahaziel, with 300 men;" 
Ezra8:6 Of the sons of Adin, Ebed son of Jonathan, with 50 men;" 
Ezra8:7 Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah son of Athaliah, with 70 men;" 
Ezra8:8 Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah son of Michael, with 80 men;" 
Ezra8:9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah son of Jehiel, with 218 men;" 
Ezra8:9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah son of Jehiel, with 218 men;" 
Ezra8:10 Of the sons of [Bani], Shelomith son of Josiphiah, with 160 men;" 
Ezra8:11 Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah son of Bebai, with 28 men;" 
Ezra8:11 Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah son of Bebai, with 28 men;" 
Ezra8:12 Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan son of Hakkatan, with 110 men;" 
Ezra8:13 Of the sons of Adonikam, the last to come, their names are Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah, with 60 men;" 
Ezra8:14 Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud [Zaccur], with 70 men." 
Ezra8:15 I [Ezra] gathered them together at the river that runs to Ahava, and there we encamped three days. I reviewed the people and the priests, and found no Levites." 
Ezra8:16 Then I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, Meshullam, who were chief men, and also for Joiarib and Elnathan,who were teachers." 
Ezra8:16 Then I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, Meshullam, who were chief men, and also for Joiarib and Elnathan,who were teachers." 
Ezra8:17 And I sent them to Iddo, the leading man at the place Casiphia, telling them to say to Iddo and his brethren the Nethinim [temple servants] at the place Casiphia, Bring to us servants for the house of our God." 
Ezra8:18 And by the good hand of our God upon us, they brought us a man of understanding, of the sons of Mahli son of Levi, the son of Israel, named Sherebiah, with his sons and his kinsmen, 18;" 
Ezra8:19 And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, with his kinsmen and their sons, 20;" 
Ezra8:20 Also 220 of the Nethinim, whose forefathers David and the officials had set apart [with their descendants] to attend the Levites. They were all mentioned by name." 
Ezra8:21 Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God to seek from Him a straight and right way for us, our little ones, and all our possessions." 
Ezra8:22 For I was ashamed to request of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the enemy along the way, because we had told the king, The hand of our God is upon all them for good who seek Him, but His power and His wrath are against all those who forsake Him." 
Ezra8:23 So we fasted and besought our God for this, and He heard our entreaty." 
Ezra8:24 Then I set apart twelve leading priests, Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their kinsmen," 
Ezra8:25 And weighed out to them the silver, the gold, and the vessels, the offering for the house of our God which the king, his counselors, his lords, and all Israel there present had offered." 
Ezra8:26 I weighed into their hands 650 talents of silver, and silver vessels valued at 100 talents, and 100 talents of gold;" 
Ezra8:27 Also 20 basins of gold worth 1,000 darics, and two vessels of fine bright bronze, precious as gold." 
Ezra8:28 And I said to them, You are holy to the Lord, the vessels are holy also, and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to the Lord, the God of your fathers." 
Ezra8:29 Guard and keep them until you weigh them before the chief priests and Levites and heads of the fathers' houses of Israel in Jerusalem in the chambers of the house of the Lord. 
Ezra8:30 So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver, the gold, and the vessels to bring them to Jerusalem into the house of our God." 
Ezra8:31 We left the river Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month to go to Jerusalem; and the hand of our God was upon us, and He delivered us from the enemy and those who lay in wait by the way." 
Ezra8:32 And we came to Jerusalem, and [had been] there three days." 
Ezra8:33 On the fourth day, the silver, the gold, and the vessels were weighed in the house of our God into the hands of Meremoth the priest, son of Uriah, and with him was Eleazar son of Phinehas, and with them were Jozabad son of Jeshua and Noadiah son of Binnui,the Levites." 
Ezra8:34 Every piece was counted and weighed, and all the weight was recorded at once." 
Ezra8:35 Also those returned exiles whose parents had been carried into captivity offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel: twelve young bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and twelve he-goats for a sin offering. All this was a burnt offering to the Lord." 
Ezra8:36 And they delivered the king's commissions to the king's lieutenants and to the governors west of the River, and they aided the people and God's house." 
Ezra9:1 AFTERWARD, THE officials came to me and said, The Israelites and the priests and Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, but have committed the abominations of the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Jebusites, Ammonites, Moabites, Egyptians, and Amorites." 
Ezra9:2 For they have taken as wives some of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy offspring have mixed themselves with the peoples of the lands. Indeed, the officials and chief men have been foremost in this wicked act and direct violation [of God's will]. [Deut. 7:3, 4.]" 
Ezra9:3 When I heard this, I rent my undergarment and my mantle, I pulled hair from my head and beard and sat down appalled." 
Ezra9:4 Then all those who trembled at the words of the God of Israel because of the offensive violation of His will by the returned exiles gathered around me as I sat astounded until the evening sacrifice. 
Ezra9:5 At the evening sacrifice I arose from my depression, and, having rent my undergarment and my mantle, I fell on my knees and spread out my hands to the Lord my God," 
Ezra9:6 Saying, O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift my face to You, my God, for our iniquities have risen higher than our heads and our guilt has mounted to the heavens." 
Ezra9:7 Since the days of our fathers we have been exceedingly guilty; and for our willfulness we, our kings, and our priests have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, captivity, plundering, and utter shame, as it is today." 
Ezra9:8 And now, for a brief moment, grace has been shown us by the Lord our God, Who has left us a remnant to escape and has given us a secure hold in His holy place, that our God may brighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our bondage." 
Ezra9:9 For we are bondmen; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended mercy and steadfast love to us before the kings of Persia, to give us some reviving to set up the house of our God, to repair its ruins, and to give us a wall [of protection] in Judah and Jerusalem." 
Ezra9:10 Now, O our God, what can we say after this? For we have forsaken Your commands" 
Ezra9:11 Which You have commanded by Your servants the prophets, saying, The land which you are entering to possess is an unclean land with the pollutions of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations which have filled it from one end to the other with their filthiness." 
Ezra9:12 Therefore, do not give your daughters to their sons or take their daughters for your sons; and never seek their peace or prosperity, that you may be strong and eat the good of the land and leave it as an inheritance to your children always." 
Ezra9:13 And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, seeing that You, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserved and have given us such a remnant," 
Ezra9:14 Shall we break Your commandments again and intermarry with the peoples who practice these abominations? Would You not be angry with us till You had consumed us, so that there would be no remnant nor any to escape? [Deut. 7:2-4.]" 
Ezra9:15 O Lord, the God of Israel, You are rigidly just and righteous, for we are left a remnant that is escaped, as it is this day. Behold, we are before You in our guilt, for none can stand before You because of this." 
Ezra10:1 NOW WHILE Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, there gathered to him out of Israel a very great assembly of men, women, and children; for the people wept bitterly." 
Ezra10:2 And Shecaniah [II] son of Jehiel [one of the congregation], of the sons of Elam, said to Ezra: We have broken faith and dealt treacherously against our God and have married foreign women of the peoples of the land; yet now there is still hope for Israel in spite of this thing." 
Ezra10:3 Therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the foreign wives and their children, according to the counsel of my lord and of those who tremble at the command of our God; and let it be done according to the Law." 
Ezra10:4 Arise, for it is your duty, and we are with you. Be strong and brave and do it." 
Ezra10:5 Then Ezra arose and made the chiefs of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel swear that they would do as had been said. So they took the oath." 
Ezra10:6 Then Ezra came from before the house of God and went into the lodging place of Jehohanan son of Eliashib [for the night]. There he ate no bread and drank no water, for he mourned over the returned exiles' faithlessness [and violation of God's law]." 
Ezra10:7 And proclamation was made throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the returned exiles, that they should assemble in Jerusalem," 
Ezra10:8 And that whoever did not come within three days, by order of the officials and the elders, all his property should be forfeited and he himself banned from the assembly of the exiles." 
Ezra10:9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered at Jerusalem within three days. It was the twentieth day of the ninth month, and all the people sat in the open space before the house of God, trembling because of this matter and because of the heavy rain." 
Ezra10:10 And Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, You have acted wickedly and broken faith [with God] and have married foreign (heathen) women, increasing the guilt of Israel." 
Ezra10:11 So now make confession and give thanks to the Lord, the God of your fathers [for not consuming you], and do His will. Separate yourselves from the peoples of the land and from [your] foreign (heathen) wives." 
Ezra10:12 Then all the assembly answered with a loud voice, As you have said, so must we do." 
Ezra10:13 But the people are many and it is a time of heavy rain; we cannot stand outside. Nor can this work be done in a day or two, for we have greatly transgressed in this matter." 
Ezra10:14 Let our officials stand for the whole assembly; let all in our cities who have foreign wives come by appointment, and with each group the elders of that city and its judges, until the fierce wrath of our God over this matter is turned away from us." 
Ezra10:15 Only Jonathan son of Asahel and Jahzeiah son of Tikvah opposed this, and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite supported them." 
Ezra10:16 Then the returned exiles did so. Ezra the priest and certain heads of fathers' houses were selected, according to their fathers' houses, each of them by name; and they sat down on the first day of the tenth month to investigate the matter." 
Ezra10:17 And by the first day of the first month they had come to the end of the cases of the men married to foreign wives. 
Ezra10:18 Of the sons of the priests who had married non-Jewish women were found: of the sons of Jeshua [the high priest] son of Jozadak, and his brethren: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib, and Gedaliah." 
Ezra10:19 They solemnly vowed to put away their [heathen] wives, and, being guilty, [each] offered a ram of the flock for [his] guilt." 
Ezra10:20 Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah. 
Ezra10:21 Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah." 
Ezra10:22 Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah." 
Ezra10:23 Of the Levites: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer." 
Ezra10:24 Of the singers: Eliashib. Of the gatekeepers: Shallum, Telem, and Uri." 
Ezra10:25 And of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, Izziah, Malchijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Malchijah (Hashabiah), and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah." 
Ezra10:26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah." 
Ezra10:27 Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza." 
Ezra10:28 Of the sons also of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai." 
Ezra10:29 Of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Jeremoth." 
Ezra10:30 Of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, and Manasseh." 
Ezra10:31 Of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon," 
Ezra10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah." 
Ezra10:33 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei." 
Ezra10:34 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel," 
Ezra10:35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhi (Cheluhu)," 
Ezra10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib," 
Ezra10:37 Mattaniah, Mattenai, Jaasu [Jaasai]," 
Ezra10:38 Bani, Binnui, Shimei," 
Ezra10:39 Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah," 
Ezra10:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai," 
Ezra10:41 Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah," 
Ezra10:42 Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph." 
Ezra10:43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iddo (Jaddai), Joel, and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iddo (Jaddai), Joel, and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:44 All these had married foreign women, and some of the wives had borne children." 
Nehemiah1:1 THE WORDS or story of Nehemiah son of Hacaliah: Now in the month of Chislev in the twentieth year [of the Persian king], as I was in the castle of Shushan," 
Nehemiah1:2 Hanani, one of my kinsmen, came with certain men from Judah, and I asked them about the surviving Jews who had escaped exile, and about Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah1:3 And they said to me, The remnant there in the province who escaped exile are in great trouble and reproach; the wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its [fortified] gates are destroyed by fire." 
Nehemiah1:4 When I heard this, I sat down and wept and mourned for days and fasted and prayed [constantly] before the God of heaven," 
Nehemiah1:5 And I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God, Who keeps covenant, loving-kindness, and mercy for those who love Him and keep His commandments," 
Nehemiah1:6 Let Your ear now be attentive and Your eyes open to listen to the prayer of Your servant which I pray before You day and night for the Israelites, Your servants, confessing the sins of the Israelites which we have sinned against You. Yes, I and my father's house have sinned." 
Nehemiah1:7 We have acted very corruptly against You and have not kept the commandments, statutes, and ordinances which You commanded Your servant Moses. [Deut. 6:1-9.]" 
Nehemiah1:8 Remember [earnestly] what You commanded Your servant Moses: If you transgress and are unfaithful, I will scatter you abroad among the nations; [Lev. 26:33.]" 
Nehemiah1:9 But if you return to Me and keep My commandments and do them, though your outcasts were in the farthest part of the heavens [the expanse of outer space], yet will I gather them from there and will bring them to the place in which I have chosen to set My Name. [Deut. 30:1-5.]" 
Nehemiah1:10 Now these are Your servants and Your people, whom You have redeemed by Your great power and by Your strong hand." 
Nehemiah1:11 O Lord, let Your ear be attentive to the prayer of Your servant and the prayer of Your servants who delight to revere and fear Your name (Your nature and attributes); and prosper, I pray You, Your servant this day and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was cupbearer to the king." 
Nehemiah2:1 IN THE month of Nisan in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, when wine was before him, I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad before in his presence." 
Nehemiah2:2 So the king said to me, Why do you look sad, since you are not sick? This is nothing but sorrow of heart. Then I was very much afraid" 
Nehemiah2:3 And said to the king, Let the king live forever! Why should I not be sad faced when the city, the place of my fathers' sepulchers, lies waste, and its [fortified] gates are consumed by fire?" 
Nehemiah2:4 The king said to me, For what do you ask? So I prayed to the God of heaven." 
Nehemiah2:5 And I said to [him], If it pleases the king and if your servant has found favor in your sight, I ask that you will send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers' sepulchers, that I may rebuild it." 
Nehemiah2:6 The king, beside whom the queen was sitting, asked me, How long will your journey take, and when will you return? So it pleased [him] to send me; and I set him a time." 
Nehemiah2:7 Also I said to the king, If it pleases the king, let letters be given me for the governors beyond the [Euphrates] River, that they may let me pass through to Judah," 
Nehemiah2:8 And a letter to Asaph, keeper of the king's forest or park, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the fortress of the temple and for the city wall and for the house that I shall occupy. And the king granted what I asked, for the good hand of my God was upon me." 
Nehemiah2:9 Then I came to the governors beyond the River and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent captains of the army and horsemen with me. 
Nehemiah2:10 When Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, heard this, it distressed them exceedingly that a man had come to inquire for and require the good and prosperity of the Israelites." 
Nehemiah2:11 So I came to Jerusalem and had been there three days. 
Nehemiah2:12 Then I arose in the night, I and a few men with me. And I told no one what my God had put in my heart to do for Jerusalem. No beast was with me except the one I rode." 
Nehemiah2:13 I went out by night by the Valley Gate toward the Dragon's Well and to the Dung Gate and inspected the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and its gates, which had been destroyed by fire." 
Nehemiah2:14 I passed over to the Fountain Gate and to the King's Pool, but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass." 
Nehemiah2:15 So [gradually] I went up by the brook [Kidron] in the night and inspected the wall; then I turned back and entered [the city] by the Valley Gate, and so returned." 
Nehemiah2:16 And the magistrates knew not where I went or what I did; nor had I yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, or the rest who did the work." 
Nehemiah2:17 Then I said to them, You see the bad situation we are in,how Jerusalem lies in ruins, and its gates are burned with fire. Come, let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we may no longer be a disgrace." 
Nehemiah2:18 Then I told them of the hand of my God which was upon me for good, and also the words that the king had spoken to me. And they said, Let us rise up and build! So they strengthened their hands for the good work." 
Nehemiah2:19 But when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arab heard of it, they laughed us to scorn and despised us and said, What is this thing you are doing? Will you rebel against the king?" 
Nehemiah2:20 I answered them, The God of heaven will prosper us; therefore we His servants will arise and build, but you have no portion or right or memorial in Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah3:1 THEN ELIASHIB the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests and built the Sheep Gate. They consecrated it and set up its doors; they consecrated it even to the Tower of Hammeah or the Hundred, as far as the Tower of Hananel." 
Nehemiah3:2 And next to him [Eliashib] the men of Jericho built. Next to [them] Zaccur son of Imri built. 
Nehemiah3:3 And the Fish Gate the sons of Hassenaah built; they laid its beams and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars." 
Nehemiah3:4 And next to them Meremoth son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, repaired. Next to them Meshullam son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel, repaired. Next to them Zadok son of Baana repaired." 
Nehemiah3:5 Next to them the Tekoites repaired, but their nobles or lords did not put their necks to the work of their Lord." 
Nehemiah3:6 Moreover, the Old Gate Joiada son of Paseah and Meshullam son of Besodeiah repaired. They laid its beams and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars." 
Nehemiah3:7 Next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, [up] to the seat or residence of the governor [west of] the River [Euphrates, there in Jerusalem]." 
Nehemiah3:8 Next to them repaired Uzziel son of Harhaiah, one of the goldsmiths. Next to him repaired Hananiah, one of the perfumers, and they abandoned [fortification of] Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall [omitting that part of the ancient city and reducing the area]." 
Nehemiah3:9 Next to them repaired Rephaiah son of Hur, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah3:10 Next to them repaired Jedaiah son of Harumaph, opposite his own house. And next to him repaired Hattush son of Hashabneiah." 
Nehemiah3:11 Malchijah son of Harim and Hasshub son of Pahath-moab repaired another portion and the Tower of the Furnaces. 
Nehemiah3:12 Next to [them] repaired Shallum son of Hallohesh, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, he and his daughters." 
Nehemiah3:13 The Valley Gate [the main entrance in the west wall, the Jaffa Gate] was repaired by Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah. They built it and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars and repaired a thousand cubits of the wall, as far as the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah3:14 The Dung Gate was repaired by Malchijah son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth-haccherem. He rebuilt it and set its doors, its bolts, and its bars." 
Nehemiah3:15 The Fountain Gate was repaired by Shallum son of Col-hozeh, ruler of the district of Mizpah. He rebuilt and covered it and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and the wall of the Pool of Shelah (Siloam), by the King's Garden, as far as the stairs that go down [the eastern slope] from the [portion of Jerusalem known as] the City of David." 
Nehemiah3:16 After him Nehemiah [III] son of Azbuk, ruler of half the district of Beth-zur, repaired [the wall] to a point opposite the sepulchers of David, and to the artificial pool and the house of the guards." 
Nehemiah3:17 After him the Levites: Rehum son of Bani. Next to him repaired Hashabiah, ruler of half the district of Keilah." 
Nehemiah3:18 After him repaired their brethren under Bavvai son of Henadad, ruler of [the other] half of the district of Keilah." 
Nehemiah3:19 Next to him repaired Ezer son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, another district over opposite the ascent to the armory at the angle [in the wall]." 
Nehemiah3:20 After him Baruch son of Zabbai (Zaccai) earnestly repaired another portion [toward the hill] from the angular turning of the wall to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest. 
Nehemiah3:21 After him Meremoth son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, repaired from the door of Eliashib's house to the end of his house." 
Nehemiah3:22 After him the priests, men of the plain, repaired." 
Nehemiah3:23 After them Benjamin and Hasshub repaired opposite their house. After them repaired Azariah son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah beside his own house." 
Nehemiah3:24 After him Binnui son of Henadad repaired another section [of the wall], from the house of Azariah to the angular turn of the wall and to the corner." 
Nehemiah3:25 Palal son of Uzai repaired opposite the angular turn of the wall and the tower which stands out from the upper house of the king by the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah son of Parosh 
Nehemiah3:26 And the servants of the priests dwelling on Ophel [the hill south of the temple] repaired to opposite the Water Gate on the east and the projecting tower. 
Nehemiah3:27 After them the Tekoites repaired another portion opposite the great projecting tower to the wall of Ophel. 
Nehemiah3:28 Above the Horse Gate the priests repaired, everyone opposite his own house." 
Nehemiah3:29 After them repaired Zadok son of Immer opposite his house. Then Shemaiah son of Shecaniah, keeper of the East Gate, repaired." 
Nehemiah3:30 After him Hananiah son of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sixth son of Zalaph, repaired another section. After him Meshullam son of Berechiah repaired opposite his chamber." 
Nehemiah3:31 After him Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired as far as the house of the temple servants and of the merchants, opposite the Muster Gate, and to the ascent and upper room of the corner." 
Nehemiah3:32 And from the ascent and upper room of the corner to the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and merchants repaired. 
Nehemiah4:1 BUT WHEN Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he was angry and in a great rage, and he ridiculed the Jews." 
Nehemiah4:2 And he said before his brethren and the army of Samaria, What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they restore things [at will and by themselves]? Will they [try to bribe their God] with sacrifices? Will they finish up in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, seeing they are burned?" 
Nehemiah4:3 Now Tobiah the Ammonite was near him, and he said, What they build,if a fox climbs upon it, he will break down their stone wall." 
Nehemiah4:4 [And Nehemiah prayed] Hear, O our God, for we are despised. Turn their taunts upon their own heads, and give them for a prey in a land of their captivity." 
Nehemiah4:5 Cover not their iniquity and let not their sin be blotted out before You, for they have vexed [with alarm] the builders and provoked You." 
Nehemiah4:6 So we built the wall, and all [of it] was joined together to half its height, for the people had a heart and mind to work." 
Nehemiah4:7 But when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabians, Ammonites, and Ashdodites heard that the walls of Jerusalem were going up and that the breaches were being closed, they were very angry." 
Nehemiah4:8 And they all plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem, to injure and cause confusion and failure in it." 
Nehemiah4:9 But because of them we made our prayer to our God and set a watch against them day and night. 
Nehemiah4:10 And [the leaders of] Judah said, The strength of the burden bearers is weakening, and there is much rubbish; we are not able to work on the wall." 
Nehemiah4:11 And our enemies said, They will not know or see till we come into their midst and kill them and stop the work." 
Nehemiah4:12 And when the Jews who lived near them came, they said to us ten times, You must return [to guard our little villages]; from all places where they dwell they will be upon us." 
Nehemiah4:13 So I set [armed men] behind the wall in places where it was least protected; I even thus used the people as families with their swords, spears, and bows." 
Nehemiah4:14 I looked [them over] and rose up and said to the nobles and officials and the other people, Do not be afraid of the enemy; [earnestly] remember the Lord and imprint Him [on your minds], great and terrible, and [take from Him courage to] fight for your brethren, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your homes." 
Nehemiah4:15 And when our enemies heard that their plot was known to us and that God had frustrated their purpose, we all returned to the wall, everyone to his work." 
Nehemiah4:16 And from that time forth, half of my servants worked at the task, and the other half held the spears, shields, bows, and coats of mail; and the leaders stood behind all the house of Judah." 
Nehemiah4:17 Those who built the wall and those who bore burdens loaded themselves so that everyone worked with one hand and held a weapon with the other hand," 
Nehemiah4:18 And every builder had his sword girded by his side, and so worked. And he who sounded the trumpet was at my side." 
Nehemiah4:19 And I said to the nobles and officials and the rest of the people, The work is great and scattered, and we are separated on the wall, one far from another." 
Nehemiah4:20 In whatever place you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. Our God will fight for us." 
Nehemiah4:21 So we labored at the work while half of them held the spears from dawn until the stars came out. 
Nehemiah4:22 At that time also I said to the people, Let everyone with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that at night they may be a guard to us and a laborer during the day." 
Nehemiah4:23 So none of us,I, my kinsmen, my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me,took off our clothes; each kept his weapon [in his hand for days]." 
Nehemiah5:1 NOW THERE arose a great cry of the [poor] people and of their wives [driven to borrowing] against their Jewish brethren [the few who could afford to lend]. 
Nehemiah5:2 For some said, We, our sons and daughters, are many; therefore allow us to take grain, that we may eat and live! If we are not given grain, let us take it!" 
Nehemiah5:3 Also some said, We are mortgaging our lands, vineyards, and houses to buy grain because of the scarcity." 
Nehemiah5:4 Others said, We have borrowed money on our fields and vineyards to pay the [Persian] king's heavy tax." 
Nehemiah5:5 Although our flesh is the same as that of our brethren and our children are as theirs, yet we are forced to sell our children as slaves; some of our daughters have already been thus sold, and we are powerless to redeem them, for others have our lands and vineyards." 
Nehemiah5:6 I [Nehemiah] was very angry when I heard their cry and these words. 
Nehemiah5:7 I thought it over and then rebuked the nobles and officials. I told them, You are exacting interest from your own kinsmen. And I held a great assembly against them." 
Nehemiah5:8 I said to them, We, according to our ability, have bought back our Jewish brethren who were sold to the nations; but will you even sell your brethren, that they may be sold to us? Then they were silent and found not a word to say." 
Nehemiah5:9 Also I said, What you are doing is not good. Should you not walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts and reproach of the nations, our enemies?" 
Nehemiah5:10 I, my brethren, and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us stop this forbidden interest! [Exod. 22:25.]" 
Nehemiah5:11 Return this very day to them their fields, vineyards, olive groves, and houses, and also a hundredth of all the money, grain, new wine, and oil that you have exacted from them." 
Nehemiah5:12 Then they said, We will restore these and require nothing from them. We will do as you say. Then I called the priests and took an oath of the lenders that they would do according to this promise." 
Nehemiah5:13 I shook out my lap and said, So may God shake out every man from his house and from [the exercise and fruits of] his labor who does not keep this promise! So may he be shaken out and emptied. And all the assembly said, Amen, and praised the Lord. And the people did according to this promise." 
Nehemiah5:14 Also, in the twelve years after I was appointed to be their governor in Judah, from the twentieth to the thirty-second year of King Artaxerxes, neither I nor my kin ate the food allowed to [me] the governor." 
Nehemiah5:15 But the former governors lived at the expense of the people and took from them food and wine, besides forty shekels of silver [a large monthly official salary]; yes, even their servants assumed authority over the people. But I did not so because of my [reverent] fear of God." 
Nehemiah5:16 I also held fast to the work on this wall; and we bought no land. And all my servants were gathered there for the work. 
Nehemiah5:17 And there were at my table 150 Jews and officials, besides those who came to us from the nations about us." 
Nehemiah5:18 Now these were prepared for each day: one ox and six choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days a store of all sorts of wine. Yet for all this, I did not demand [my rights] the food allowed me as governor, for the [tribute] bondage was heavy upon this people." 
Nehemiah5:19 O my God, [earnestly] remember me for good for all I have done for this people. [Heb. 6:10.]" 
Nehemiah6:1 NOW WHEN Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arab, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had built the wall and that there was no breach left in it, although at that time I had not set up the doors in the gates," 
Nehemiah6:2 Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, Come, let us meet together in one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they intended to do me harm." 
Nehemiah6:3 And I sent messengers to them, saying, I am doing a great work and cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave to come down to you?" 
Nehemiah6:4 They sent to me four times this way, and I answered them as before." 
Nehemiah6:5 Then Sanballat sent his servant to me again the fifth time with an open letter. 
Nehemiah6:6 In it was written: It is reported among the neighboring nations, and Gashmu says it, that you and the Jews plan to rebel; therefore you are building the wall, that you may be their king, according to the report." 
Nehemiah6:7 Also you have set up prophets to announce concerning you in Jerusalem, There is a king in Judah. And now this will be reported to the [Persian] king. So, come now and let us take counsel together." 
Nehemiah6:8 I replied to him, No such things as you say have been done; you are inventing them out of your own heart and mind." 
Nehemiah6:9 For they all wanted to frighten us, thinking, Their hands will be so weak that the work will not be done. But now strengthen my hands!" 
Nehemiah6:10 I went into the house of Shemaiah son of Delaiah, the son of Mehetabel, who was shut up. He said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple, for they are coming to kill you,at night they are coming to kill you." 
Nehemiah6:11 But I said, Should such a man as I flee? And what man such as I could go into the temple [where only the priests are allowed to go] and yet live? I will not go in." 
Nehemiah6:12 And behold, I saw that God had not sent him, but he made this prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him." 
Nehemiah6:13 He was hired that I should be made afraid and do as he said and sin, that they might have matter for an evil report with which to taunt and reproach me." 
Nehemiah6:14 My God, think on Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and on the prophetess Noadiah and the rest of the prophets who would have put me in fear." 
Nehemiah6:15 So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty-two days." 
Nehemiah6:16 When all our enemies heard of it, all the nations around us feared and fell far in their own esteem, for they saw that this work was done by our God." 
Nehemiah6:17 Moreover, in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah's letters came to them." 
Nehemiah6:18 For many in Judah were bound by oath to him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah son of Arah, and his son Jehohanan had married the daughter of Meshullam son of Berechiah." 
Nehemiah6:19 Also they spoke of [Tobiah's] good deeds before me and told him what I said. And Tobiah sent letters to frighten me. 
Nehemiah7:1 NOW WHEN the wall was built and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers, singers, and Levites had been appointed," 
Nehemiah7:2 I gave my brother Hanani, with Hananiah the ruler of the castle, charge over Jerusalem, for Hananiah was a more faithful and God-fearing man than many." 
Nehemiah7:3 I said to them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while the watchmen are still on guard, let them shut and bar the doors. Appoint guards from the people of Jerusalem, each to his watch [on the wall] and each opposite his own house." 
Nehemiah7:4 Now the city was wide and large, but the people in it were few, and their houses were not yet built." 
Nehemiah7:5 And my God put it into my mind and heart to assemble the nobles, the officers, and the people, that they might be counted by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of those who came [from Babylon] at the first, and found written in it:" 
Nehemiah7:6 These are the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of those exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away; they returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, each to his town," 
Nehemiah7:7 Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah [not the author], Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The men of Israel numbered:" 
Nehemiah7:8 The sons of Parosh, 2,172." 
Nehemiah7:9 The sons of Shephatiah, 372." 
Nehemiah7:10 The sons of Arah, 652." 
Nehemiah7:11 The sons of Pahath-moab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,818." 
Nehemiah7:12 The sons of Elam, 1,254." 
Nehemiah7:13 The sons of Zattu, 845." 
Nehemiah7:14 The sons of Zaccai, 760." 
Nehemiah7:15 The sons of Binnui, 648." 
Nehemiah7:16 The sons of Bebai, 628." 
Nehemiah7:17 The sons of Azgad, 2,322." 
Nehemiah7:18 The sons of Adonikam, 667." 
Nehemiah7:19 The sons of Bigvai, 2,067." 
Nehemiah7:20 The sons of Adin, 655." 
Nehemiah7:21 The sons of Ater, namely of Hezekiah, 98." 
Nehemiah7:22 The sons of Hashum, 328." 
Nehemiah7:23 The sons of Bezai, 324." 
Nehemiah7:24 The sons of Hariph, 112." 
Nehemiah7:25 The sons of Gibeon, 95." 
Nehemiah7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, 188." 
Nehemiah7:27 The men of Anathoth, 128." 
Nehemiah7:28 The men of Beth-azmaveth, 42." 
Nehemiah7:29 The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743." 
Nehemiah7:30 The men of Ramah and Geba, 621." 
Nehemiah7:31 The men of Michmas, 122." 
Nehemiah7:32 The men of Bethel and Ai, 123." 
Nehemiah7:33 The men of the other Nebo, 52." 
Nehemiah7:34 The sons of the other Elam, 1,254." 
Nehemiah7:35 The sons of Harim, 320." 
Nehemiah7:36 The sons of Jericho, 345." 
Nehemiah7:37 The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, 721." 
Nehemiah7:38 The sons of Senaah, 3,930." 
Nehemiah7:39 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, namely the house of Jeshua, 973." 
Nehemiah7:40 The sons of Immer, 1,052." 
Nehemiah7:41 The sons of Pashhur, 1,247." 
Nehemiah7:42 The sons of Harim, 1,017." 
Nehemiah7:43 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, namely of Kadmiel of the sons of Hodevah, 74." 
Nehemiah7:44 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 148." 
Nehemiah7:45 The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, of Ater, of Talmon, of Akkub, of Hatita, and of Shobai, 138." 
Nehemiah7:46 The Nethinim [temple servants]: the sons of Ziha, of Hasupha, of Tabbaoth," 
Nehemiah7:47 Of Keros, of Sia, of Padon," 
Nehemiah7:48 Of Lebana, of Hagaba, of Shalmai," 
Nehemiah7:49 Of Hanan, of Giddel, of Gahar," 
Nehemiah7:50 Of Reaiah, of Rezin, of Nekoda," 
Nehemiah7:51 Of Gazzam, of Uzza, of Paseah," 
Nehemiah7:52 Of Besai, of Meunim, of Nephushesim," 
Nehemiah7:53 Of Bakbuk, of Hakupha, of Harhur," 
Nehemiah7:54 Of Bazlith, of Mehida, of Harsha," 
Nehemiah7:55 Of Barkos, of Sisera, of Temah," 
Nehemiah7:56 Of Neziah, of Hatipha." 
Nehemiah7:57 The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, of Sophereth, of Perida," 
Nehemiah7:58 Of Jaala, of Darkon, of Giddel," 
Nehemiah7:59 Of Shephatiah, of Hattil, of Pochereth-hazzebaim, of Amon." 
Nehemiah7:60 All the Nethinim [temple servants] and the sons of Solomon's servants, 392." 
Nehemiah7:61 And these were they who went up also from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer, but they [had no birth records and] could not prove their father's house nor their descent, whether they were of Israel:" 
Nehemiah7:62 The sons of Delaiah, of Tobiah, of Nekoda, 642." 
Nehemiah7:63 Of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, of Hakkoz, and of Barzillai, who [was so named because he] married one of the daughters of the [noted] Gileadite Barzillai and was called by their name." 
Nehemiah7:64 These sought their registration among those recorded in the genealogies, but it was not found; so they were excluded from the priesthood as [ceremonially] unclean." 
Nehemiah7:65 The governor told them that they should refrain from eating any of the most holy food until a priest with Urim and Thummim should arise [to determine the will of God in the matter]. 
Nehemiah7:66 The congregation all together was 42,360," 
Nehemiah7:67 Besides their manservants and their maidservants, of whom there were 7,337; and they had 245 singers, men and women." 
Nehemiah7:68 Their horses were 736; their mules, 245;" 
Nehemiah7:69 Their camels, 435; their donkeys, 6,720." 
Nehemiah7:70 And some of the heads of fathers' houses gave to the work. The Tirshatha or governor gave to the treasury 1,000 darics of gold, 50 basins, 530 priests' garments." 
Nehemiah7:71 Some of the heads of fathers' houses gave to the treasury for the work 20,000 darics of gold and 2,200 minas of silver." 
Nehemiah7:72 What the rest of the people gave was 20,000 darics of gold, 2,000 minas of silver, and 67 priests' garments." 
Nehemiah7:73 So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the Nethinim [the temple servants], along with all Israel, dwelt in their towns, and were in them when the seventh month came." 
Nehemiah8:1 THEN ALL the people gathered together as one man in the broad place before the Water Gate; and they asked Ezra the scribe to bring the Book of the Law of Moses, which the Lord had given to Israel." 
Nehemiah8:1 THEN ALL the people gathered together as one man in the broad place before the Water Gate; and they asked Ezra the scribe to bring the Book of the Law of Moses, which the Lord had given to Israel." 
Nehemiah8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the Law before the assembly of both men and women and all who could hear with understanding, on the first of the seventh month." 
Nehemiah8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the Law before the assembly of both men and women and all who could hear with understanding, on the first of the seventh month." 
Nehemiah8:3 He read from it, facing the broad place before the Water Gate, from early morning until noon, in the presence of the men and women and those who could understand; and all the people were attentive to the Book of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden pulpit which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddana, Zechariah, and Meshullam." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden pulpit which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddana, Zechariah, and Meshullam." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden pulpit which they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddana, Zechariah, and Meshullam." 
Nehemiah8:5 Ezra opened the book in sight of all the people, for he was standing above them; and when he opened it, all the people stood up." 
Nehemiah8:5 Ezra opened the book in sight of all the people, for he was standing above them; and when he opened it, all the people stood up." 
Nehemiah8:6 And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands; and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with faces to the ground." 
Nehemiah8:6 And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands; and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with faces to the ground." 
Nehemiah8:7 Also Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah,the Levites,helped the people to understand the Law, and the people [remained] in their place." 
Nehemiah8:8 So they read from the Book of the Law of God distinctly, faithfully amplifying and giving the sense so that [the people] understood the reading." 
Nehemiah8:9 And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people said to all of them, This day is holy to the Lord your God; mourn not nor weep. For all the people wept when they heard the words of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:9 And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people said to all of them, This day is holy to the Lord your God; mourn not nor weep. For all the people wept when they heard the words of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:10 Then [Ezra] told them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet drink, and send portions to him for whom nothing is prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord. And be not grieved and depressed, for the joy of the Lord is your strength and stronghold." 
Nehemiah8:10 Then [Ezra] told them, Go your way, eat the fat, drink the sweet drink, and send portions to him for whom nothing is prepared; for this day is holy to our Lord. And be not grieved and depressed, for the joy of the Lord is your strength and stronghold." 
Nehemiah8:11 So the Levites quieted all the people, saying, Be still, for the day is holy. And do not be grieved and sad." 
Nehemiah8:12 And all the people went their way to eat, drink, send portions, and make great rejoicing, for they had understood the words that were declared to them." 
Nehemiah8:13 On the second day, all the heads of fathers' houses, with the priests and Levites, gathered to Ezra the scribe to study and understand the words of divine instruction." 
Nehemiah8:13 On the second day, all the heads of fathers' houses, with the priests and Levites, gathered to Ezra the scribe to study and understand the words of divine instruction." 
Nehemiah8:14 And they found written in the law, which the Lord had commanded through Moses, that the Israelites should dwell in booths during the feast of the seventh month" 
Nehemiah8:15 And that they should publish and proclaim in all their towns and in Jerusalem, saying, Go out to the hills and bring branches of olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm, and other leafy trees to make booths, as it is written. [Lev. 23:39, 40.]" 
Nehemiah8:16 So the people went out and brought them and made themselves booths, each on the roof of his house and in their courts and the courts of God's house and in the squares of the Water Gate and the Gate of Ephraim." 
Nehemiah8:17 All the assembly of returned exiles made booths and dwelt in them; for since the days of Jeshua (Joshua) son of Nun up to that day, the Israelites had not done so. And there was very great rejoicing." 
Nehemiah8:17 All the assembly of returned exiles made booths and dwelt in them; for since the days of Jeshua (Joshua) son of Nun up to that day, the Israelites had not done so. And there was very great rejoicing." 
Nehemiah8:18 Also day by day, from the first day to the last, Ezra read from the Book of the Law of God. They kept the feast for seven days; the eighth day was a [closing] solemn assembly, according to the ordinance." 
Nehemiah8:18 Also day by day, from the first day to the last, Ezra read from the Book of the Law of God. They kept the feast for seven days; the eighth day was a [closing] solemn assembly, according to the ordinance." 
Nehemiah9:1 NOW ON the twenty-fourth day of this month, the Israelites were assembled with fasting and in sackcloth and with earth upon their heads." 
Nehemiah9:2 And the Israelites separated themselves from all foreigners and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. 
Nehemiah9:3 And they stood in their place and read from the Book of the Law of the Lord their God for a fourth of the day, and for another fourth of it they confessed and worshiped the Lord their God." 
Nehemiah9:4 On the stairs of the Levites stood Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and they cried with a loud voice to the Lord their God." 
Nehemiah9:5 Then the Levites,Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah,said, Stand up and bless the Lord your God from everlasting to everlasting. Blessed be Your glorious name which is exalted above all blessing and praise." 
Nehemiah9:6 [And Ezra said], You are the Lord, You alone; You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth, and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them; and You preserve them all, and the hosts of heaven worship You." 
Nehemiah9:6 [And Ezra said], You are the Lord, You alone; You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth, and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them; and You preserve them all, and the hosts of heaven worship You." 
Nehemiah9:7 You are the Lord, the God Who chose Abram and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldees and gave him the name Abraham." 
Nehemiah9:8 You found his heart faithful before You, and You made the covenant with him to give his descendants the land of the Canaanite, Hittite, Amorite, Perizzite, Jebusite, and Girgashite. And You have fulfilled Your promise, for You are just and righteous." 
Nehemiah9:9 You saw our fathers' affliction in Egypt, and You heard their cry at the Red Sea." 
Nehemiah9:10 You performed signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants and all the people of his land, for You knew that they dealt insolently against the Israelites. And You got for Yourself a name, as it is today." 
Nehemiah9:11 You divided the sea before them, so that they went through its midst on dry land; their persecutors You threw into the depths, as a stone into mighty waters." 
Nehemiah9:12 Moreover, by a pillar of cloud You led them by day, and by a pillar of fire by night to light the way they should go." 
Nehemiah9:13 You came down also upon Mount Sinai and spoke with them from Heaven and gave them right ordinances and true laws, good statutes and commandments." 
Nehemiah9:14 And You made known to them Your holy Sabbath and gave them commandments, statutes, and a law through Moses Your servant." 
Nehemiah9:15 You gave them bread from heaven for their hunger and brought water for them out of the rock for their thirst; and You told them to go in and possess the land You had sworn to give them. [John 6:31-34.] 
Nehemiah9:16 But they and our fathers acted presumptuously and stiffened their necks, and did not heed Your commandments." 
Nehemiah9:17 They refused to obey, nor were they mindful of Your wonders and miracles which You did among them; but they stiffened their necks and in their rebellion appointed a captain, that they might return to their bondage [in Egypt]. But You are a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great steadfast love; and You did not forsake them." 
Nehemiah9:18 Even when they had made for themselves a molten calf and said, This is your god, who brought you out of Egypt, and had committed great and contemptible blasphemies," 
Nehemiah9:19 You in Your great mercy forsook them not in the wilderness; the pillar of the cloud departed not from them by day to lead them in the way, nor the pillar of fire by night to light the way they should go." 
Nehemiah9:20 You also gave Your good Spirit to instruct them, and withheld not Your manna from them, and gave water for their thirst." 
Nehemiah9:21 Forty years You sustained them in the wilderness; they lacked nothing, their clothes did not wear out, and their feet did not swell." 
Nehemiah9:22 Also You gave them kingdoms and peoples and allotted to them every corner. So they possessed the land of Sihon king of Heshbon and the land of Og king of Bashan. 
Nehemiah9:23 Their children You also multiplied as the stars of heaven and brought them into the land which You told their fathers they should go in and possess. 
Nehemiah9:24 So the descendants went in and possessed the land; and You subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, with their kings and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they would." 
Nehemiah9:25 And they captured fortified cities and a rich land and took possession of houses full of all good things, cisterns hewn out, vineyards, olive orchards, and fruit trees in abundance. So they ate and were filled and became fat and delighted themselves in Your great goodness." 
Nehemiah9:26 Yet they were disobedient and rebelled against You and cast Your law behind their back and killed Your prophets who accused and warned them to turn to You again; and they committed great and contemptible blasphemies. 
Nehemiah9:27 Therefore You delivered them into the hand of their enemies, who distressed them. In the time of their suffering when they cried to You, You heard them from heaven, and according to Your abundant mercy You gave them deliverers, who saved them from their enemies." 
Nehemiah9:28 But after they had rest, they did evil again before You; therefore You left them in the hand of their enemies, so that they had dominion over them. Yet when they turned and cried to You, You heard them from heaven, and many times You delivered them according to Your mercies," 
Nehemiah9:29 And reproved and warned them, that You might bring them again to Your law. Yet they acted presumptuously and did not heed Your commandments, but sinned against Your ordinances, which by keeping, a man shall live. And they turned a stubborn shoulder, stiffened their neck, and would not listen." 
Nehemiah9:30 Yet You bore with them many years more and reproved and warned them by Your Spirit through Your prophets; still they would not listen. Therefore You gave them into the power of the peoples of the lands. 
Nehemiah9:31 Yet in Your great mercies You did not utterly consume them or forsake them, for You are a gracious and merciful God." 
Nehemiah9:32 Now therefore, our God, the great, mighty, and terrible God, Who keeps covenant and mercy and loving-kindness, let not all the trouble and hardship seem little to You,the hardship that has come upon us, our kings, our princes, our priests, our prophets, our fathers, and on all Your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria to this day." 
Nehemiah9:33 However, You are just in all that has come upon us; for You have dealt faithfully, but we have done wickedly;" 
Nehemiah9:34 Our kings, our princes, our priests, and our fathers have not kept Your law or hearkened to Your commandments and Your warnings and reproofs which You gave them." 
Nehemiah9:35 They did not serve You in their kingdom, and in Your great goodness that You gave them and in the large and rich land You set before them, nor did they turn from their wicked works." 
Nehemiah9:36 Behold, we are slaves this day, and as for the land that You gave to our fathers to eat the fruit and the good of it, behold, we are slaves in it." 
Nehemiah9:37 And its rich yield goes to the kings whom You have set over us because of our sins; they have power also over our bodies and over our livestock at their pleasure. And we are in great distress. 
Nehemiah9:38 Because of all this, we make a firm and sure written covenant, and our princes, Levites, and priests set their seal to it." 
Nehemiah10:1 THESE SET their seal: Nehemiah the governor, the son of Hacaliah. And Zedekiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:3 Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah," 
Nehemiah10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:7 Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin," 
Nehemiah10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah,these were the priests." 
Nehemiah10:9 And the Levites: Jeshua son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel," 
Nehemiah10:10 And their brethren: Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan," 
Nehemiah10:11 Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah," 
Nehemiah10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah," 
Nehemiah10:13 Hodiah, Bani, Beninu." 
Nehemiah10:14 The chiefs of the people: Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani," 
Nehemiah10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai," 
Nehemiah10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin," 
Nehemiah10:17 Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur," 
Nehemiah10:18 Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai," 
Nehemiah10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai," 
Nehemiah10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir," 
Nehemiah10:21 Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua," 
Nehemiah10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah," 
Nehemiah10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub," 
Nehemiah10:24 Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek," 
Nehemiah10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah," 
Nehemiah10:26 Ahiah, Hanan, Anan," 
Nehemiah10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah." 
Nehemiah10:28 And the rest of the people,the priests, Levites, gatekeepers, singers, Nethinim [temple servants], and all they who had separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the Law of God, their wives, their sons, their daughters, all who had knowledge and understanding," 
Nehemiah10:29 Join now, with their brethren, their nobles, and enter into a curse and an oath to walk in God's Law which was given to Moses the servant of God and to observe and do all the commandments of the Lord our Lord, and His ordinances and His statutes:" 
Nehemiah10:30 We shall not give our daughters to the peoples of the land or take their daughters for our sons. 
Nehemiah10:31 And if the peoples of the land bring wares or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, we shall not buy it on the Sabbath or on a holy day; and we shall forego raising crops the seventh year [letting the land lie fallow] and the compulsory payment of every debt. [Exod. 23:10, 11; Deut. 15:1, 2.]" 
Nehemiah10:32 Also we pledge ourselves to pay yearly a third of a shekel for the service expenses of the house of our God [which are]: 
Nehemiah10:33 For the showbread; for the continual cereal offerings and burnt offerings; [for the offerings on] the Sabbaths, the New Moons, the set feasts; for the holy things, for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel; and for all the work of the house of our God." 
Nehemiah10:34 We also cast lots,the priests, the Levites, and the people,for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God, according to our fathers' houses, at appointed times year by year, to burn upon the altar of the Lord our God, as it is written in the Law." 
Nehemiah10:35 And [we obligate ourselves] to bring the firstfruits of our ground and the first of all the fruit of all trees year by year to the house of the Lord," 
Nehemiah10:36 As well as the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as is written in the Law, and the firstlings of our herds and flocks, to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in [His] house." 
Nehemiah10:37 And we shall bring the first and best of our coarse meal, our contributions, the fruit of all kinds of trees, of new wine, and of oil to the priests, to the chambers of the house of our God. And we shall bring the tithes from our ground to the Levites, for they, the Levites, collect the tithes in all our rural towns." 
Nehemiah10:38 And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when [they] receive tithes, and [they] shall bring one-tenth of the tithes to the house of our God, to the chambers, into the storehouse." 
Nehemiah10:39 For the Israelites and the sons of Levi shall bring the offering of grain, new wine, and oil to the chambers where the vessels of the sanctuary are, along with the priests who minister and the gatekeepers and singers. We will not forsake or neglect the house of our God." 
Nehemiah11:1 NOW THE leaders of the people dwelt at Jerusalem; the rest of the people also cast lots to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, while nine-tenths dwelt in other towns and villages." 
Nehemiah11:2 And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered to live in Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah11:3 These are the province chiefs who dwelt in Jerusalem, but in the towns of Judah everyone lived on his property there,Israelites, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the descendants of Solomon's servants." 
Nehemiah11:4 And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the sons of Judah and Benjamin. Of Judah: Athaiah son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez;" 
Nehemiah11:4 And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the sons of Judah and Benjamin. Of Judah: Athaiah son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez;" 
Nehemiah11:5 Maaseiah son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite." 
Nehemiah11:5 Maaseiah son of Baruch, the son of Col-hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of the Shilonite." 
Nehemiah11:6 All the sons of Perez who dwelt at Jerusalem were 468 valiant men. 
Nehemiah11:7 These are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, son of Jeshaiah," 
Nehemiah11:8 And after him Gabbai and Sallai, 928." 
Nehemiah11:9 Joel son of Zichri was overseer, and Judah son of Hassenuah was second over the city." 
Nehemiah11:9 Joel son of Zichri was overseer, and Judah son of Hassenuah was second over the city." 
Nehemiah11:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah son of Joiarib; Jachin; 
Nehemiah11:11 Seraiah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, ruler of the house of God," 
Nehemiah11:12 And their brethren, who did the work of the house, 822; and Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah," 
Nehemiah11:12 And their brethren, who did the work of the house, 822; and Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah," 
Nehemiah11:13 And his brethren, chiefs of fathers' houses, 242; and Amashsai son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer," 
Nehemiah11:14 And their brethren, mighty men of valor, 128. Their overseer was Zabdiel son of Haggedolim [one of the great men]." 
Nehemiah11:15 And of the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;" 
Nehemiah11:16 And Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chiefs of the Levites, who had charge of the outside work of the house of God;" 
Nehemiah11:17 Mattaniah son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, the leader to begin the thanksgiving in prayer; and Bakbukiah, second among his brethren; and Abda son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun." 
Nehemiah11:18 The Levites in the holy city were 284. 
Nehemiah11:19 The gatekeepers: Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren, who kept watch, were 172." 
Nehemiah11:20 And the rest of Israel, with the priests and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each in his inheritance." 
Nehemiah11:21 But the temple servants dwelt on [the hill] Ophel; Ziha and Gishpa were over [them]. 
Nehemiah11:22 Overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem and the work of God's house was Uzzi son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica, of Asaph's sons, the singers." 
Nehemiah11:23 For the [Persian] king had ordered concerning them that a certain provision be made for the singers, as each day required." 
Nehemiah11:24 Pethahiah son of Meshezabel, of the sons of Zerah son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people." 
Nehemiah11:25 As for the villages with their fields, some people of Judah dwelt in Kiriath-arba, Dibon, and Jekabzeel, and their villages," 
Nehemiah11:26 In Jeshua, Moladah, Beth-pelet," 
Nehemiah11:27 Hazar-shual, Beersheba and its villages," 
Nehemiah11:28 Ziklag, Meconah and its villages," 
Nehemiah11:29 En-rimmon, Zorah, Jarmuth," 
Nehemiah11:30 Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its villages. So they encamped from Beersheba to the Hinnom Valley." 
Nehemiah11:31 The people of Benjamin also dwelt from Geba onward, at Michmash, Aija, Bethel and its villages," 
Nehemiah11:32 At Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah," 
Nehemiah11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim," 
Nehemiah11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat," 
Nehemiah11:35 Lod, and Ono, the Valley of the Craftsmen." 
Nehemiah11:36 And certain divisions of the Levites in Judah were joined to Benjamin. 
Nehemiah12:1 NOW THESE are the priests and Levites who went up with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and with Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 NOW THESE are the priests and Levites who went up with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and with Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 NOW THESE are the priests and Levites who went up with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and with Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush," 
Nehemiah12:3 Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth," 
Nehemiah12:4 Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah," 
Nehemiah12:5 Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah," 
Nehemiah12:6 Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah," 
Nehemiah12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, and Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and their brethren in the days of Jeshua." 
Nehemiah12:8 And the Levites were Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who, with his brethren, was over the thanksgiving [choirs]." 
Nehemiah12:9 Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, stood opposite them according to their offices." 
Nehemiah12:10 And Jeshua was the father of Joiakim, Joiakim of Eliashib, Eliashib of Joiada," 
Nehemiah12:11 Joiada was the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan of Jaddua." 
Nehemiah12:12 And in the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers' houses: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;" 
Nehemiah12:12 And in the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers' houses: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;" 
Nehemiah12:13 Of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;" 
Nehemiah12:13 Of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;" 
Nehemiah12:14 Of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;" 
Nehemiah12:15 Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;" 
Nehemiah12:16 Of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;" 
Nehemiah12:16 Of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;" 
Nehemiah12:17 Of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin and of Moadiah, Piltai;" 
Nehemiah12:18 Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;" 
Nehemiah12:19 Of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;" 
Nehemiah12:20 Of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;" 
Nehemiah12:21 Of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel." 
Nehemiah12:22 As for the Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan, and Jaddua, the heads of fathers' houses were recorded, as well as the priests, until the reign of Darius the Persian." 
Nehemiah12:23 The sons of Levi, heads of fathers' houses, were recorded in the Book of the Chronicles until the days of Johanan son of Eliashib." 
Nehemiah12:24 And the chiefs of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua son of Kadmiel, with their brethren opposite them, to praise and to give thanks, as David, God's man, commanded, [one] watch [singing] in response to [the men in the opposite] watch." 
Nehemiah12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers guarding at the storehouses of the gates." 
Nehemiah12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers guarding at the storehouses of the gates." 
Nehemiah12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priest and scribe." 
Nehemiah12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priest and scribe." 
Nehemiah12:27 And for the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites in all their places to bring them to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication with gladness, with thanksgivings, and with singing, cymbals, harps, and lyres." 
Nehemiah12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered together from the plain and circuit around Jerusalem and from the villages of the Netophathites," 
Nehemiah12:29 And also from Beth-gilgal and the fields of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built for themselves villages around Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah12:30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, the people, the gates, and the wall." 
Nehemiah12:31 Then I brought the princes of Judah up on the wall, and I appointed two great companies of them who gave thanks and went in procession. One went to the right upon the wall toward the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah12:32 And after them went Hoshaiah and half of the princes of Judah," 
Nehemiah12:33 And Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:33 And Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, and Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, and Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah12:35 And certain of the priests' sons with trumpets, and Zechariah son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph," 
Nehemiah12:35 And certain of the priests' sons with trumpets, and Zechariah son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph," 
Nehemiah12:36 And his kinsmen,Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, Hanani,with the musical instruments of David, God's man. And Ezra the scribe went before them." 
Nehemiah12:36 And his kinsmen,Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, Hanani,with the musical instruments of David, God's man. And Ezra the scribe went before them." 
Nehemiah12:37 At the Fountain Gate they went up straight ahead by the stairs of the City of David at the wall's ascent above David's house to the Water Gate on the east. 
Nehemiah12:38 The other company of those who gave thanks went to the left; I followed with half of the people upon the wall, above the Tower of the Furnaces to the Broad Wall," 
Nehemiah12:39 And above the Gate of Ephraim, and by the Old Gate and by the Fish Gate and by the Tower of Hananel and the Tower of Hammeah, even to the Sheep Gate; and they stopped at the Gate of the Guard." 
Nehemiah12:40 So the two companies of those who gave thanks stood in the house of God, and I, and the half of the officials with me;" 
Nehemiah12:41 And the priests Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;" 
Nehemiah12:41 And the priests Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;" 
Nehemiah12:42 And Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malchijah, Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang and made themselves heard, with Jezrahiah as leader." 
Nehemiah12:43 Also that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy; the women also and the children rejoiced. The joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off." 
Nehemiah12:44 On that day men were appointed over the chambers for the stores, the contributions, the firstfruits, and the tithes, to gather into them the portions required by law for the priests and the Levites according to the fields of the towns, for Judah rejoiced over the priests and Levites who served [faithfully]." 
Nehemiah12:45 And they performed the due service of their God and of the purification; so did the singers and gatekeepers, as David and his son Solomon had commanded." 
Nehemiah12:46 For in the days of David and Asaph of old, there was a chief of singers and songs of praise and thanksgiving to God." 
Nehemiah12:47 And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel and [later] of Nehemiah gave the daily portions for the singers and the gatekeepers; and they set apart what was for the Levites, and the Levites set apart what was for the sons of Aaron [the priests]." 
Nehemiah13:1 ON THAT day they read in the Book of Moses in the audience of the people, and in it was found written that no Ammonite or Moabite should ever come into the assembly of God," 
Nehemiah13:2 For they met not the Israelites with food and drink but hired Balaam to curse them; yet our God turned the curse into a blessing. [Num. 22:3-11; Deut. 23:5, 6.]" 
Nehemiah13:3 When [the Jews] heard the law, they separated from Israel all who were of foreign descent." 
Nehemiah13:4 Now before this, Eliashib the priest, who was appointed over the chambers of the house of our God, and was related [by marriage] to Tobiah [our adversary]," 
Nehemiah13:5 Prepared for Tobiah a large chamber where previously they had put the cereal offerings, the frankincense, the vessels, and the tithes of grain, new wine, and oil which were given by commandment to the Levites, the singers, and gatekeepers, and the contributions for the priests." 
Nehemiah13:6 But in all this time I was not at Jerusalem, for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes [Persian] king of Babylon I went to the king. Then later I asked leave of him" 
Nehemiah13:7 And came to Jerusalem. Then I discovered the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah in preparing him [an adversary] a chamber in the courts of the house of God! 
Nehemiah13:8 And it grieved me exceedingly, and I threw all the house furnishings of Tobiah out of the chamber." 
Nehemiah13:9 Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers; and I brought back there the vessels of the house of God, with the cereal offerings and the frankincense." 
Nehemiah13:10 And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them, so that the Levites and the singers who did the work [forced by necessity] had each fled to his field." 
Nehemiah13:11 Then I contended with the officials and said, Why is the house of God neglected and forsaken? I gathered the Levites and singers and set them in their stations." 
Nehemiah13:12 Then all Judah brought the tithe of the grain, the new wine, and the oil to the storerooms." 
Nehemiah13:13 I set treasurers over the storerooms: Shelemiah the priest, Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah of the Levites; assisting them was Hanan son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah, for they were counted faithful, and their task was to distribute to their brethren." 
Nehemiah13:14 O my God, [earnestly] remember me concerning this and wipe not out my good deeds and kindnesses done for the house of my God and for His service." 
Nehemiah13:15 In those days I saw in Judah men treading winepresses on the Sabbath, bringing in sheaves or heaps of grain with which they loaded donkeys, as well as wine, grapes, figs, and all sorts of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I protested and warned them on the day they sold the produce." 
Nehemiah13:16 There dwelt men of Tyre there also who brought fish and all kinds of wares and sold on the Sabbath to the people of Judah and in Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah13:17 Then I reproved the nobles of Judah and said, What evil thing is this that you do,profaning the Sabbath day?" 
Nehemiah13:18 Did not your fathers do thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us and upon this city? Yet you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath." 
Nehemiah13:19 And when it began to get dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath [day began], I commanded that the gates should be shut and not be opened till after the Sabbath. And I set some of my servants at the gates to prevent any burden being brought in on the Sabbath day." 
Nehemiah13:20 So the merchants and sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice. 
Nehemiah13:21 But I reproved and warned them, saying, Why do you lodge by the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you. Then they stopped coming on the Sabbath." 
Nehemiah13:22 And I commanded the Levites to cleanse themselves and come and guard the gates to keep the Sabbath day holy. O my God, [earnestly] remember me concerning this also and spare me according to the greatness of Your mercy and loving-kindness." 
Nehemiah13:23 In those days also I saw Jews who had married wives from Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab." 
Nehemiah13:24 And their children spoke half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak the Hebrew, but in the language of each people." 
Nehemiah13:25 And I contended with them and reviled them and beat some of them and pulled out their hair and made them swear by God, saying, You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons or for yourselves." 
Nehemiah13:26 Did not Solomon king of Israel act treacherously against God and miss the mark on account of such women? Among many nations there was no king like him. He was loved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel; yet strange women even caused him to sin [when he was old he turned treacherously away from the Lord to other gods, and God rent his kingdom from him]. [I Kings 11:1-11.]" 
Nehemiah13:27 Shall we then listen to you to do all this great evil and act treacherously against our God by marrying strange (heathen) women? 
Nehemiah13:28 One of the sons of Joiada son of Eliashib the high priest was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite; therefore I chased him from me. 
Nehemiah13:29 O my God, [earnestly] remember them, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priests and Levites." 
Nehemiah13:30 Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign (heathen), and I defined the duties of the priests and Levites, everyone in his work;" 
Nehemiah13:31 And I provided for the wood offering at appointed times, and for the firstfruits. O my God, [earnestly] remember me for good and imprint me [on Your heart]!" 
Esther1:1 IT WAS in the days of Ahasuerus [Xerxes], the Ahasuerus who reigned from India to Ethiopia over 127 provinces." 
Esther1:2 In those days when King Ahasuerus sat on his royal throne which was in Shushan or Susa [the capital of the Persian Empire] in the palace or castle," 
Esther1:3 In the third year of his reign he made a feast for all his princes and his courtiers. The chief officers of the Persian and Median army and the nobles and governors of the provinces were there before him 
Esther1:4 While he showed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the splendor and excellence of his majesty for many days, even 180 days." 
Esther1:5 And when these days were completed, the king made a feast for all the people present in Shushan the capital, both great and small, a seven-day feast in the court of the garden of the king's palace." 
Esther1:6 There were hangings of fine white cloth, of green and of blue [cotton], fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings or rods and marble pillars. The couches of gold and silver rested on a [mosaic] pavement of porphyry, white marble, mother-of-pearl, and [precious] colored stones." 
Esther1:7 Drinks were served in different kinds of golden goblets, and there was royal wine in abundance, according to the liberality of the king." 
Esther1:8 And drinking was according to the law; no one was compelled to drink, for the king had directed all the officials of his palace to serve only as each guest desired." 
Esther1:9 Also Queen Vashti gave a banquet for the women in the royal house which belonged to King Ahasuerus. 
Esther1:10 On the seventh day, when the king's heart was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carkas, the seven eunuchs who ministered to King Ahasuerus as attendants," 
Esther1:11 To bring Queen Vashti before the king, with her royal crown, to show the peoples and the princes her beauty, for she was fair to behold." 
Esther1:12 But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command conveyed by the eunuchs. Therefore the king was enraged, and his anger burned within him." 
Esther1:13 Then the king spoke to the wise men who knew the times,for this was the king's procedure toward all who were familiar with law and judgment, 
Esther1:14 Those next to him being Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media who were in the king's presence and held first place in the kingdom." 
Esther1:15 [He said] According to the law, what is to be done to Queen Vashti because she has not done the bidding of King Ahasuerus conveyed by the eunuchs?" 
Esther1:16 And Memucan answered before the king and the princes, Vashti the queen has not only done wrong to the king but also to all the princes and to all the peoples who are in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus." 
Esther1:17 For this deed of the queen will become known to all women, making their husbands contemptible in their eyes, since they will say, King Ahasuerus commanded Queen Vashti to be brought before him, but she did not come." 
Esther1:18 This very day the ladies of Persia and Media who have heard of the queen's behavior will be telling it to all the king's princes. So contempt and wrath in plenty will arise. 
Esther1:19 If it pleases the king, let a royal command go forth from him and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and Medes, so that it may not be changed, that Vashti is to [be divorced and] come no more before King Ahasuerus; and let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she." 
Esther1:20 So when the king's decree is made and proclaimed throughout all his kingdom, extensive as it is, all wives will give honor to their husbands, high and low." 
Esther1:21 This advice pleased the king and the princes, and the king did what Memucan proposed." 
Esther1:22 He sent letters to all the royal provinces, to each in its own script and to every people in their own language, saying that every man should rule in his own house and speak there in the language of his own people. [If he had foreign wives, let them learn his language.]" 
Esther2:1 AFTER THESE things, when the wrath of King Ahasuerus was pacified, he [earnestly] remembered Vashti and what she had done and what was decreed against her." 
Esther2:2 Then the king's servants who ministered to him said, Let beautiful young virgins be sought for the king." 
Esther2:3 And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom to gather all the beautiful young virgins to the capital in Shushan, to the harem under the custody of Hegai, the king's eunuch, who is in charge of the women; and let their things for purification be given them." 
Esther2:4 And let the maiden who pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti. This pleased the king, and he did so." 
Esther2:5 There was a certain Jew in the capital in Shushan whose name was Mordecai son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite," 
Esther2:6 Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives taken away with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried into exile." 
Esther2:7 He had brought up Hadassah, that is Esther, his uncle's daughter, for she had neither father nor mother. The maiden was beautiful and lovely, and when her father and mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter." 
Esther2:8 So when the king's command and his decree were proclaimed and when many maidens were gathered in Shushan the capital under the custody of Hegai, Esther also was taken to the king's house into the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women." 
Esther2:9 And the maiden pleased [Hegai] and obtained his favor. And he speedily gave her the things for her purification and her portion of food and the seven chosen maids to be given her from the king's palace; and he removed her and her maids to the best [apartment] in the harem. 
Esther2:10 Esther had not made known her nationality or her kindred, for Mordecai had charged her not to do so." 
Esther2:11 And Mordecai [who was an attendant in the king's court] walked every day before the court of the harem to learn how Esther was and what would become of her. 
Esther2:12 Now when the turn of each maiden came to go in to King Ahasuerus, after the regulations for the women had been carried out for twelve months,since this was the regular period for their beauty treatments, six months with oil of myrrh and six months with sweet spices and perfumes and the things for the purifying of the women," 
Esther2:13 Then in this way the maiden came to the king: whatever she desired was given her to take with her from the harem into the king's palace. 
Esther2:14 In the evening she went and next day she returned into the second harem in the custody of Shaashgaz, the king's eunuch who was in charge of the concubines. She came to the king no more unless the king delighted in her and she was called for by name." 
Esther2:15 Now when the turn for Esther the daughter of Abihail, the uncle of Mordecai who had taken her as his own daughter, had come to go in to the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king's attendant, the keeper of the women, suggested. And Esther won favor in the sight of all who saw her." 
Esther2:16 So Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus into his royal palace in the tenth month, the month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign." 
Esther2:17 And the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she obtained grace and favor in his sight more than all the maidens, so that he set the royal crown on her head and made her queen instead of Vashti." 
Esther2:18 Then the king gave a great feast for all his princes and his servants, Esther's feast; and he gave a holiday [or a lessening of taxes] to the provinces and gave gifts in keeping with the generosity of the king." 
Esther2:19 And when the maidens were gathered together the second time, Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate." 
Esther2:20 Now Esther had not yet revealed her nationality or her people, for she obeyed Mordecai's command to her [to fear God and execute His commands] just as when she was being brought up by him." 
Esther2:21 In those days, while Mordecai sat at the king's gate, two of the king's eunuchs, Bigthan and Teresh, of those who guarded the door, were angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus." 
Esther2:22 And this was known to Mordecai, who told it to Queen Esther, and Esther told the king in Mordecai's name." 
Esther2:23 When it was investigated and found to be true, both men were hanged on the gallows. And it was recorded in the Book of the Chronicles in the king's presence." 
Esther3:1 AFTER THESE things, King Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite and advanced him and set his seat above all the princes who were with him." 
Esther3:2 And all the king's servants who were at the king's gate bowed down and did reverence to Haman, for the king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai did not bow down or do him reverence." 
Esther3:3 Then the king's servants who were at the king's gate said to Mordecai, Why do you transgress the king's command?" 
Esther3:4 Now when they spoke to him day after day and he paid no attention to them, they told Haman to see whether Mordecai's conduct would stand, for he had told them that he was a Jew." 
Esther3:5 And when Haman saw that Mordecai did not bow down or do him reverence, he was very angry." 
Esther3:6 But he scorned laying hands only on Mordecai. So since they had told him Mordecai's nationality, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai, throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus." 
Esther3:7 In the first month, the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus, Haman caused Pur, that is, lots, to be cast before him day after day [to find a lucky day for his venture], month after month, until the twelfth, the month of Adar." 
Esther3:8 Then Haman said to King Ahasuerus, There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom; their laws are different from every other people, neither do they keep the king's laws. Therefore it is not for the king's profit to tolerate them." 
Esther3:9 If it pleases the king, let it be decreed that they be destroyed, and I will pay 10,000 talents of silver into the hands of those who have charge of the king's business, that it may be brought into the king's treasuries." 
Esther3:10 And the king took his signet ring from his hand [with which to seal his letters by the king's authority] and gave it to Haman son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy." 
Esther3:11 And the king said to Haman, The silver is given to you, the people also, to do with them as it seems good to you." 
Esther3:12 Then the king's secretaries were called in on the thirteenth day of the first month, and all that Haman had commanded was written to the king's chief rulers and to the governors who were over all the provinces and to the princes of each people, to every province in its own script and to each people in their own language; it was written in the name of King Ahasuerus and it was sealed with the king's [signet] ring." 
Esther3:13 And letters were sent by special messengers to all the king's provinces,to destroy, to slay, and to do away with all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, the month of Adar, and to seize their belongings as spoil." 
Esther3:14 A copy of the writing was to be published and given out as a decree in every province to all the peoples to be ready for that day. 
Esther3:15 The special messengers went out in haste by order of the king, and the decree was given out in Shushan, the capital. And the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Shushan was perplexed [at the strange and alarming decree]." 
Esther4:1 NOW WHEN Mordecai learned all that was done, [he] rent his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes and went out into the midst of the city and cried with a loud and bitter cry." 
Esther4:2 He came and stood before the king's gate, for no one might enter the king's gate clothed with sackcloth." 
Esther4:3 And in every province, wherever the king's commandment and his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, with fasting, weeping, and wailing, and many lay in sackcloth and ashes." 
Esther4:4 When Esther's maids and her attendants came and told it to her, the queen was exceedingly grieved and distressed. She sent garments to clothe Mordecai, with orders to take his sackcloth from off him, but he would not receive them." 
Esther4:5 Then Esther called for Hathach, one of the king's attendants whom he had appointed to attend her, and ordered him to go to Mordecai to learn what this was and why it was." 
Esther4:6 So Hathach went out to Mordecai in the open square of the city, which was in front of the king's gate." 
Esther4:7 And Mordecai told him of all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's treasuries for the Jews to be destroyed." 
Esther4:8 [Mordecai] also gave him a copy of the decree to destroy them, that was given out in Shushan, that he might show it to Esther, explain it to her, and charge her to go to the king, make supplication to him, and plead with him for the lives of her people." 
Esther4:9 And Hathach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai. 
Esther4:10 Then Esther spoke to Hathach and gave him a message for Mordecai, saying," 
Esther4:11 All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that any person, be it man or woman, who shall go into the inner court to the king without being called shall be put to death; there is but one law for him, except [him] to whom the king shall hold out the golden scepter, that he may live. But I have not been called to come to the king for these thirty days." 
Esther4:12 And they told Mordecai what Esther said. 
Esther4:13 Then Mordecai told them to return this answer to Esther, Do not flatter yourself that you shall escape in the king's palace any more than all the other Jews." 
Esther4:14 For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance shall arise for the Jews from elsewhere, but you and your father's house will perish. And who knows but that you have come to the kingdom for such a time as this and for this very occasion?" 
Esther4:15 Then Esther told them to give this answer to Mordecai," 
Esther4:16 Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast for me; and neither eat nor drink for three days, night or day. I also and my maids will fast as you do. Then I will go to the king, though it is against the law; and if I perish, I perish." 
Esther4:17 So Mordecai went away and did all that Esther had commanded him. 
Esther5:1 ON THE third day [of the fast] Esther put on her royal robes and stood in the royal or inner court of the king's palace opposite his [throne room]. The king was sitting on his throne, facing the main entrance of the palace." 
Esther5:2 And when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight, and he held out to [her] the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther drew near and touched the tip of the scepter." 
Esther5:3 Then the king said to her, What will you have, Queen Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you, even to the half of the kingdom." 
Esther5:4 And Esther said, If it seems good to the king, let the king and Haman come this day to the dinner that I have prepared for the king." 
Esther5:5 Then the king said, Cause Haman to come quickly, that what Esther has said may be done." 
Esther5:6 So the king and Haman came to the dinner that Esther had prepared. 
Esther5:7 And during the serving of wine, the king said to Esther, What is your petition? It shall be granted you. And what is your request? Even to the half of the kingdom, it shall be performed." 
Esther5:8 Then Esther said, My petition and my request is: If I have found favor in the sight of the king and if it pleases the king to grant my petition and to perform my request, let the king and Haman come tomorrow to the dinner that I shall prepare for them; and I will do tomorrow as the king has said." 
Esther5:9 Haman went away that day joyful and elated in heart. But when he saw Mordecai at the king's gate refusing to stand up or show fear before him, he was filled with wrath against Mordecai." 
Esther5:10 Nevertheless, Haman restrained himself and went home. There he sent and called for his friends and Zeresh his wife." 
Esther5:11 And Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches, the abundance of his [ten] sons, all the things in which the king had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the king." 
Esther5:12 Haman added, Yes, and today Queen Esther did not let any man come with the king to the dinner she had prepared but myself; and tomorrow also I am invited by her together with the king." 
Esther5:13 Yet all this benefits me nothing as long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate. 
Esther5:14 Then Zeresh his wife and all his friends said to him, Let a gallows be made, fifty cubits [seventy-five feet] high, and in the morning speak to the king, that Mordecai may be hanged on it; then you go in merrily with the king to the dinner. And the thing pleased Haman, and he caused the gallows to be made." 
Esther6:1 ON THAT night the king could not sleep; and he ordered that the book of memorable deeds, the chronicles, be brought, and they were read before the king." 
Esther6:2 And it was found written there how Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's attendants who guarded the door, who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus." 
Esther6:3 And the king said, What honor or distinction has been given Mordecai for this? Then the king's servants who ministered to him said, Nothing has been done for him." 
Esther6:4 The king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman had just come into the outer court of the king's palace to ask the king to hang Mordecai on the gallows he had prepared for him." 
Esther6:5 And the king's servants said to him, Behold, Haman is standing in the court. And the king said, Let him come in." 
Esther6:6 So Haman came in. And the king said to him, What shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor? Now Haman said to himself, To whom would the king delight to do honor more than to me?" 
Esther6:7 And Haman said to the king, For the man whom the king delights to honor," 
Esther6:8 Let royal apparel be brought which the king has worn and the horse which the king has ridden, and a royal crown be set on his head." 
Esther6:9 And let the apparel and the horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble princes. Let him array the man whom the king delights to honor, and conduct him on horseback through the open square of the city, and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor." 
Esther6:10 Then the king said to Haman, Make haste and take the apparel and the horse, as you have said, and do so to Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king's gate. Leave out nothing that you have spoken." 
Esther6:11 Then Haman took the apparel and the horse and conducted Mordecai on horseback through the open square of the city, proclaiming before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor." 
Esther6:12 Then Mordecai came again to the king's gate. But Haman hastened to his house, mourning and having his head covered." 
Esther6:13 And Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his wise men and Zeresh his wife said to him, If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of the offspring of the Jews, you cannot prevail against him, but shall surely fall before him." 
Esther6:14 While they were yet talking with him, the king's attendants came and hastily brought Haman to the dinner that Esther had prepared." 
Esther7:1 SO THE king and Haman came to dine with Esther the queen. 
Esther7:2 And the king said again to Esther on the second day when wine was being served, What is your petition, Queen Esther? It shall be granted. And what is your request? Even to the half of the kingdom, it shall be performed." 
Esther7:3 Then Queen Esther said, If I have found favor in your sight, O king and if it pleases the king, let my life be given me at my petition and my people at my request." 
Esther7:4 For we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, slain, and wiped out of existence! But if we had been sold for bondmen and bondwomen, I would have held my tongue, for our affliction is not to be compared with the damage this will do to the king." 
Esther7:5 Then King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther, Who is he, and where is he who dares presume in his heart to do that?" 
Esther7:6 And Esther said, An adversary and an enemy, even this wicked Haman. Then Haman was afraid before the king and queen." 
Esther7:7 And the king arose from the feast in his wrath and went into the palace garden; and Haman stood up to make request for his life to Queen Esther, for he saw that there was evil determined against him by the king." 
Esther7:8 When the king returned out of the palace garden into the place of the drinking of wine, Haman was falling upon the couch where Esther was. Then said the king, Will he even forcibly assault the queen in my presence, in my own palace? As the king spoke the words, [the servants] covered Haman's face." 
Esther7:9 Then said Harbonah, one of the attendants serving the king, Behold, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman has made for Mordecai, whose warning saved the king, stands at the house of Haman. And the king said, Hang him on it!" 
Esther7:10 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then the king's wrath was pacified. 
Esther8:1 ON THAT day King Ahasuerus gave the house of Haman, the Jews' enemy, to Queen Esther. And Mordecai came before the king, for Esther had told what he was to her." 
Esther8:2 And the king took off his [signet] ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman." 
Esther8:3 And Esther spoke yet again to the king and fell down at his feet and besought him with tears to avert the evil plot of Haman the Agagite and his scheme that he had devised against the Jews. 
Esther8:4 Then the king held out to Esther the golden scepter. So Esther arose and stood before the king. 
Esther8:5 And she said, If it pleases the king and if I have found favor in his sight and the thing seems right before the king and I am pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, which he wrote to destroy the Jews who are in all the king's provinces." 
Esther8:6 For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come upon my people? Or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred? 
Esther8:7 Then the King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther and to Mordecai the Jew, Behold, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have hanged upon the gallows because he laid his hand upon the Jews." 
Esther8:8 Write also concerning the Jews as it pleases you in the king's name, and seal it with the king's [signet] ring,for writing which is in the king's name and sealed with the king's ring no man can reverse." 
Esther8:9 Then the king's scribes were called, in the third month, the month of Sivan, on the twenty-third day, and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded to the Jews, to the chief rulers, and the governors and princes of the provinces from India to Ethiopia, 127 provinces, to every province in its own script and to every people in their own language and to the Jews according to their writing and according to their language." 
Esther8:10 He wrote in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed it with the king's ring and sent letters by messengers on horseback, riding on swift steeds, mules, and young dromedaries used in the king's service, bred from the [royal] stud." 
Esther8:11 In it the king granted the Jews who were in every city to gather and defend their lives; to destroy, to slay, and to wipe out any armed force that might attack them, their little ones, and women; and to take the enemies' goods for spoil." 
Esther8:12 On one day in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, the month of Adar," 
Esther8:13 A copy of the writing was to be issued as a decree in every province and as a proclamation to all peoples, and the Jews should be ready on that day to avenge themselves upon their enemies." 
Esther8:14 So the couriers, who were mounted on swift beasts that were used in the king's service, went out, being hurried and urged on by the king's command; and the decree was released in Shushan, the capital." 
Esther8:15 And Mordecai went forth from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white, with a great crown of gold and with a robe of fine linen and purple; and the city of Shushan shouted and rejoiced." 
Esther8:16 The Jews had light [a dawn of new hope] and gladness and joy and honor. 
Esther8:17 And in every province and in every city, wherever the king's command and his decree came, the Jews had gladness and joy, a feast and a holiday. And many from among the peoples of the land [submitted themselves to Jewish rite and] became Jews, for the fear of the Jews had fallen upon them." 
Esther9:1 NOW IN the twelfth month, the month of Adar, on the thirteenth day of Adar when the king's command and his edict were about to be executed, on the [very] day that the enemies of the Jews had planned for a massacre of them, it was turned to the contrary and the Jews had rule over those who hated them." 
Esther9:2 The Jews gathered together in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay hands on such as sought their hurt; and no man could withstand them, for the fear of them had fallen upon all the peoples." 
Esther9:3 And all the princes of the provinces and the chief rulers and the governors and they who attended to the king's business helped the Jews, because the fear of Mordecai had fallen upon them." 
Esther9:4 For Mordecai was great in the king's palace; and his fame went forth throughout all the provinces, for the man Mordecai became more and more powerful." 
Esther9:5 So the Jews smote all their enemies with the sword, slaughtering and destroying them, and did as they chose with those who hated them." 
Esther9:6 In Shushan, the capital itself, the Jews slew and destroyed 500 men." 
Esther9:7 And they killed Parshandatha," 
Esther9:8 Dalphon, Aspatha, Poratha, Adalia," 
Esther9:9 Aridatha, Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai," 
Esther9:10 And Vaizatha, the ten sons of Haman son of Hammedatha, the Jews' enemy; but on the spoil they laid not their hands." 
Esther9:11 On that day the number of those who were slain in Shushan, the capital, was brought before the king." 
Esther9:12 And the king said to Esther the queen, The Jews have slain and destroyed 500 men in Shushan, the capital, and the ten sons of Haman. What then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your petition? It shall be granted to you. Or what is your request further? It shall be done." 
Esther9:13 Then said Esther, If it pleases the king, let it be granted to the Jews which are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let [the dead bodies of] Haman's ten sons be hanged on the gallows. [Esth. 9:10.]" 
Esther9:14 And the king commanded it to be done; the decree was given in Shushan, and they hanged [the bodies of] Haman's ten sons." 
Esther9:15 And the Jews that were in Shushan gathered together on the fourteenth day also of the month of Adar and slew 300 men in Shushan, but on the spoil they laid not their hands." 
Esther9:16 And the other Jews who were in the king's provinces gathered to defend their lives and had relief and rest from their enemies and slew of them that hated them 75,000; but on the spoil they laid not their hands." 
Esther9:17 This was done on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar, and on the fourteenth day they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness." 
Esther9:18 But the Jews who were in Shushan [Susa] assembled on the thirteenth day and on the fourteenth, and on the fifteenth day they rested and made it a day of feasting and gladness." 
Esther9:19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, who dwell in the unwalled towns, make the fourteenth day of the month of Adar a day of gladness and feasting, a holiday, and a day for sending choice portions to one another." 
Esther9:20 And Mordecai recorded these things, and he sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of the King Ahasuerus, both near and far," 
Esther9:21 To command them to keep the fourteenth day of the month of Adar and also the fifteenth, yearly," 
Esther9:22 As the days on which the Jews got rest from their enemies, and as the month which was turned for them from sorrow to gladness and from mourning into a holiday,that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, days of sending choice portions to one another and gifts to the poor." 
Esther9:23 So the Jews undertook to do as they had begun and as Mordecai had written to them, 
Esther9:24 Because Haman son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to destroy them and had cast Pur, that is, the lot, [to find a lucky day] to crush and consume and destroy them." 
Esther9:25 But when Esther brought the matter before the king, he commanded in writing that Haman's wicked scheme which he had devised against the Jews should return upon his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows." 
Esther9:26 Therefore they called these days Purim, after the name Pur [lot]. Therefore, because of all that was in this letter and what they had faced in this matter and what had happened to them," 
Esther9:27 The Jews ordained and took it upon themselves and their descendants and all who joined them that without fail every year they would keep these two days at the appointed time and as it was written," 
Esther9:28 That these days should be remembered (imprinted on their minds) and kept throughout every generation in every family, province, and city, and that these days of Purim should never cease from among the Jews, nor the commemoration of them cease among their descendants." 
Esther9:29 Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abihail, with Mordecai the Jew, gave full power [written authority], confirming this second letter about Purim." 
Esther9:30 And letters were sent to all the Jews, to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, in words of peace and truth," 
Esther9:31 To confirm that these days of Purim should be observed at their appointed times, as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther had commanded [the Jews], and as they had ordained for themselves and for their descendants in the matter of their fasts and their lamenting." 
Esther9:32 And the command of Esther confirmed these observances of Purim, and it was written in the book." 
Esther10:1 KING AHASUERUS laid a tribute (tax) on the land and on the coastlands of the sea. 
Esther10:2 And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the full account of the greatness of Mordecai to which the king advanced him, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Media and Persia?" 
Esther10:3 For Mordecai the Jew was next to King Ahasuerus and great among the Jews, and was a favorite with the multitude of his brethren, for he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to his whole race." 
Job1:1 THERE WAS a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job; and that man was blameless and upright, and one who [reverently] feared God and abstained from and shunned evil [because it was wrong]." 
Job1:2 And there were born to him seven sons and three daughters. 
Job1:3 He possessed 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, 500 female donkeys, and a very great body of servants, so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East." 
Job1:4 His sons used to go and feast in the house of each on his day (birthday) in turn, and they invited their three sisters to eat and drink with them. [Gen. 21:8; 40:20.]" 
Job1:5 And when the days of their feasting were over, Job sent for them to purify and hallow them, and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed or disowned God in their hearts. Thus did Job at all [such] times." 
Job1:6 Now there was a day when the sons (the angels) of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan (the adversary and accuser) also came among them. [Rev. 12:10.]" 
Job1:7 And the Lord said to Satan, From where did you come? Then Satan answered the Lord, From going to and fro on the earth and from walking up and down on it." 
Job1:8 And the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who [reverently] fears God and abstains from and shuns evil [because it is wrong]?" 
Job1:9 Then Satan answered the Lord, Does Job [reverently] fear God for nothing?" 
Job1:10 Have You not put a hedge about him and his house and all that he has, on every side? You have conferred prosperity and happiness upon him in the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land." 
Job1:11 But put forth Your hand now and touch all that he has, and he will curse You to Your face." 
Job1:12 And the Lord said to Satan (the adversary and the accuser), Behold, all that he has is in your power, only upon the man himself put not forth your hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord." 
Job1:13 And there was a day when [Job's] sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house [on his birthday]," 
Job1:14 And there came a messenger to Job and said, The oxen were plowing and the donkeys feeding beside them," 
Job1:15 And the Sabeans swooped down upon them and took away [the animals]. Indeed, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you." 
Job1:16 While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The fire of God (lightning) has fallen from the heavens and has burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you." 
Job1:17 While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The Chaldeans divided into three bands and made a raid upon the camels and have taken them away, yes, and have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you." 
Job1:18 While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, Your sons and your daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house," 
Job1:19 And behold, there came a great [whirlwind] from the desert, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young people and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to tell you." 
Job1:20 Then Job arose and rent his robe and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshiped 
Job1:21 And said, Naked (without possessions) came I [into this world] from my mother's womb, and naked (without possessions) shall I depart. The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away; blessed (praised and magnified in worship) be the name of the Lord!" 
Job1:22 In all this Job sinned not nor charged God foolishly. 
Job2:1 AGAIN THERE was a day when the sons of God [the angels] came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan (the adversary and the accuser) came also among them to present himself before the Lord." 
Job2:2 And the Lord said to Satan, From where do you come? And Satan (the adversary and the accuser) answered the Lord, From going to and fro on the earth and from walking up and down on it." 
Job2:3 And the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who [reverently] fears God and abstains from and shuns all evil [because it is wrong]? And still he holds fast his integrity, although you moved Me against him to destroy him without cause." 
Job2:4 Then Satan answered the Lord, Skin for skin! Yes, all that a man has will he give for his life." 
Job2:5 But put forth Your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse and renounce You to Your face." 
Job2:6 And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life." 
Job2:7 So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with loathsome and painful sores from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. 
Job2:8 And he took a piece of broken pottery with which to scrape himself, and he sat [down] among the ashes." 
Job2:9 Then his wife said to him, Do you still hold fast your blameless uprightness? Renounce God and die!" 
Job2:10 But he said to her, You speak as one of the impious and foolish women would speak. What? Shall we accept [only] good at the hand of God and shall we not accept [also] misfortune and what is of a bad nature? In [spite of] all this, Job did not sin with his lips." 
Job2:11 Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came each one from his own place, Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite, for they had made an appointment together to come to condole with him and to comfort him." 
Job2:12 And when they looked from afar off and saw him [disfigured] beyond recognition, they lifted up their voices and wept; and each one tore his robe, and they cast dust over their heads toward the heavens." 
Job2:13 So they sat down with [Job] on the ground for seven days and seven nights, and none spoke a word to him, for they saw that his grief and pain were very great." 
Job3:1 AFTER THIS, Job opened his mouth and cursed his day (birthday)." 
Job3:2 And Job said," 
Job3:3 Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night which announced, There is a man-child conceived." 
Job3:4 Let that day be darkness! May not God above regard it, nor light shine upon it." 
Job3:5 Let gloom and deep darkness claim it for their own; let a cloud dwell upon it; let all that blackens the day terrify it (the day that I was born). 
Job3:6 As for that night, let thick darkness seize it; let it not rejoice among the days of the year; let it not come into the number of the months." 
Job3:7 Yes, let that night be solitary and barren; let no joyful voice come into it." 
Job3:8 Let those curse it who curse the day, who are skilled in rousing up Leviathan." 
Job3:9 Let the stars of the early dawn of that day be dark; let [the morning] look in vain for the light, nor let it behold the day's dawning," 
Job3:10 Because it shut not the doors of my mother's womb nor hid sorrow and trouble from my eyes. 
Job3:11 Why was I not stillborn? Why did I not give up the ghost when my mother bore me? 
Job3:12 Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breasts, that I should suck?" 
Job3:13 For then would I have lain down and been quiet; I would have slept; then would I have been at rest [in death] 
Job3:14 With kings and counselors of the earth, who built up [now] desolate ruins for themselves," 
Job3:15 Or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver." 
Job3:16 Or [why] was I not a miscarriage, hidden and put away, as infants who never saw light?" 
Job3:17 There [in death] the wicked cease from troubling, and there the weary are at rest." 
Job3:18 There the [captive] prisoners rest together; they hear not the taskmaster's voice. 
Job3:19 The small and the great are there, and the servant is free from his master. [Jer. 20:14-18.]" 
Job3:20 Why is light [of life] given to him who is in misery, and life to the bitter in soul," 
Job3:21 Who long and wait for death, but it comes not, and dig for it more than for hidden treasures," 
Job3:22 Who rejoice exceedingly and are elated when they find the grave? 
Job3:23 [Why is the light of day given] to a man whose way is hidden, and whom God has hedged in?" 
Job3:24 For my sighing comes before my food, and my groanings are poured out like water." 
Job3:25 For the thing which I greatly fear comes upon me, and that of which I am afraid befalls me." 
Job3:26 I was not or am not at ease, nor had I or have I rest, nor was I or am I quiet, yet trouble came and still comes [upon me]." 
Job4:1 THEN ELIPHAZ the Temanite answered and said," 
Job4:2 If we venture to converse with you, will you be offended? Yet who can restrain himself from speaking?" 
Job4:3 Behold, you have instructed many, and you have strengthened the weak hands." 
Job4:4 Your words have held firm him who was falling, and you have strengthened the feeble knees." 
Job4:5 But now it is come upon you, and you faint and are grieved; it touches you, and you are troubled and dismayed." 
Job4:6 Is not your [reverent] fear of God your confidence and the integrity and uprightness of your ways your hope? 
Job4:7 Think [earnestly], I beg of you: who, being innocent, ever perished? Or where were those upright and in right standing with God cut off?" 
Job4:8 As I myself have seen, those who plow iniquity and sow trouble and mischief reap the same." 
Job4:9 By the breath of God they perish, and by the blast of His anger they are consumed." 
Job4:10 The roaring of the lion and the voice of the fierce lion, and the teeth of the young lions are broken." 
Job4:11 The old and strong lion perishes for lack of prey, and the whelps of the lioness are scattered abroad." 
Job4:12 Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and my ear received a whisper of it." 
Job4:13 In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falls on men," 
Job4:14 Fear came upon me and trembling, which made all my bones shake." 
Job4:15 Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood up! 
Job4:16 [The spirit] stood still, but I could not discern the appearance of it. A form was before my eyes; there was silence, and then I heard a voice, saying," 
Job4:17 Can mortal man be just before God, or be more right than He is? Can a man be pure before his Maker, or be more cleansed than He is? [I John 1:7; Rev. 1:5.]" 
Job4:18 Even in His [heavenly] servants He puts no trust or confidence, and His angels He charges with folly and error," 
Job4:19 How much more those who dwell in houses (bodies) of clay, whose foundations are in the dust, who are crushed like the moth." 
Job4:20 Between morning and evening they are destroyed; without anyone noticing it they perish forever. 
Job4:21 Is not their tent cord plucked up within them [so that the tent falls]? Do they not die, and that without [acquiring] wisdom?" 
Job5:1 CALL NOW,is there any who will answer you? And to which of the holy [angels] will you turn? 
Job5:2 For vexation and rage kill the foolish man; jealousy and indignation slay the simple. 
Job5:3 I have seen the foolish taking root [and outwardly prospering], but suddenly I saw that his dwelling was cursed [for his doom was certain]." 
Job5:4 His children are far from safety; [involved in their father's ruin] they are crushed in the [court of justice in the city's] gate, and there is no one to deliver them." 
Job5:5 His harvest the hungry eat and take it even [when it grows] among the thorns; the snare opens for [his] wealth. 
Job5:6 For affliction comes not forth from the dust, neither does trouble spring forth out of the ground." 
Job5:7 But man is born to trouble as the sparks and the flames fly upward. 
Job5:8 As for me, I would seek God and inquire of and require Him, and to God would I commit my cause," 
Job5:9 Who does great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number," 
Job5:10 Who gives rain upon the earth and sends waters upon the fields," 
Job5:11 So that He sets on high those who are lowly, and those who mourn He lifts to safety." 
Job5:12 He frustrates the devices of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise or anything of [lasting] worth." 
Job5:13 He catches the [so-called] wise in their own trickiness, and the counsel of the schemers is brought to a quick end. [I Cor. 3:19, 20.]" 
Job5:14 In the daytime they meet in darkness, and at noon they grope as in the night." 
Job5:15 But [God] saves [the fatherless] from the sword of their mouth, and the needy from the hand of the mighty." 
Job5:16 So the poor have hope, and iniquity shuts her mouth." 
Job5:17 Happy and fortunate is the man whom God reproves; so do not despise or reject the correction of the Almighty [subjecting you to trial and suffering]. 
Job5:18 For He wounds, but He binds up; He smites, but His hands heal." 
Job5:19 He will rescue you in six troubles; in seven nothing that is evil [for you] will touch you. 
Job5:20 In famine He will redeem you from death, and in war from the power of the sword." 
Job5:21 You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, neither shall you be afraid of destruction when it comes." 
Job5:22 At destruction and famine you shall laugh, neither shall you be afraid of the living creatures of the earth." 
Job5:23 For you shall be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with you." 
Job5:24 And you shall know that your tent shall be in peace, and you shall visit your fold and your dwelling and miss nothing [from them]." 
Job5:25 You shall know also that your children shall be many, and your offspring as the grass of the earth." 
Job5:26 You shall come to your grave in ripe old age, and as a shock of grain goes up [to the threshing floor] in its season." 
Job5:27 This is what we have searched out; it is true. Hear and heed it and know for yourself [for your good]. 
Job6:1 THEN JOB answered," 
Job6:2 Oh, that my impatience and vexation might be [thoroughly] weighed and all my calamity be laid up over against them in the balances, one against the other [to see if my grief is unmanly]!" 
Job6:3 For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea; therefore my words have been rash and wild," 
Job6:4 [But it is] because the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison which my spirit drinks up; the terrors of God set themselves in array against me." 
Job6:5 Does the wild ass bray when it has grass? Or does the ox low over its fodder? 
Job6:6 Can that which has no taste to it be eaten without salt? Or is there any flavor in the white of an egg? 
Job6:7 [These afflictions] my soul refuses to touch! Such things are like diseased food to me [sickening and repugnant]! 
Job6:8 Oh, that I might have my request, and that God would grant me the thing that I long for!" 
Job6:9 I even wish that it would please God to crush me, that He would let loose His hand and cut me off!" 
Job6:10 Then would I still have consolation,yes, I would leap [for joy] amid unsparing pain [though I shrink from it],that I have not concealed or denied the words of the Holy One!" 
Job6:11 What strength have I left, that I should wait and hope? And what is ahead of me, that I should be patient?" 
Job6:12 Is my strength and endurance that of stones? Or is my flesh made of bronze? 
Job6:13 Is it not that I have no help in myself, and that wisdom is quite driven from me?" 
Job6:14 To him who is about to faint and despair, kindness is due from his friend, lest he forsake the fear of the Almighty." 
Job6:15 [You] my brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, as the channel of brooks that pass away," 
Job6:16 Which are black and turbid by reason of the ice, and in which the snows hides itself;" 
Job6:17 When they get warm, they shrink and disappear; when it is hot, they vanish out of their place." 
Job6:18 The caravans which travel by way of them turn aside; they go into the waste places and perish. [Such is my disappointment in you, the friends I fully trusted.]" 
Job6:19 The caravans of Tema looked [for water], the companies of Sheba waited for them [in vain]." 
Job6:20 They were confounded because they had hoped [to find water]; they came there and were bitterly disappointed. 
Job6:21 Now to me you are [like a dried-up brook]; you see my dismay and terror, and [believing me to be a victim of God's anger] you are afraid [to sympathize with me]." 
Job6:22 Did I ever say, Bring me a gift, or Pay a bribe on my account from your wealth" 
Job6:23 To deliver me from the adversary's hand, or Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors?" 
Job6:24 Teach me, and I will hold my peace; and cause me to understand wherein I have erred." 
Job6:25 How forcible are words of straightforward speech! But what does your arguing argue and prove or your reproof reprove? 
Job6:26 Do you imagine your words to be an argument, but the speeches of one who is desperate to be as wind?" 
Job6:27 Yes, you would cast lots over the fatherless and bargain away your friend." 
Job6:28 Now be pleased to look upon me, that it may be evident to you if I lie [for surely I would not lie to your face]." 
Job6:29 Return [from your suspicion], I pray you, let there be no injustice; yes, return again [to confidence in me], my vindication is in it." 
Job6:30 Is there wrong on my tongue? Cannot my taste discern what is destructive? 
Job7:1 IS THERE not an [appointed] warfare and hard labor to man upon earth? And are not his days like the days of a hireling? 
Job7:2 As a servant earnestly longs for the shade and the evening shadows, and as a hireling who looks for the reward of his work," 
Job7:3 So am I allotted months of futile [suffering], and [long] nights of misery are appointed to me." 
Job7:4 When I lie down I say, When shall I arise and the night be gone? And I am full of tossing to and fro till the dawning of the day." 
Job7:5 My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken and has become loathsome, and it closes up and breaks out afresh." 
Job7:6 My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope." 
Job7:7 Oh, remember that my life is but wind (a puff, a breath, a sob); my eye shall see good no more." 
Job7:8 The eye of him who sees me shall see me no more; while your eyes are upon me, I shall be gone." 
Job7:9 As the cloud is consumed and vanishes away, so he who goes down to Sheol (the place of the dead) shall come up no more." 
Job7:10 He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more." 
Job7:11 Therefore I will not restrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit, I will complain in the bitterness of my soul [O Lord]!" 
Job7:12 Am I the sea, or the sea monster, that You set a watch over me?" 
Job7:13 When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaint," 
Job7:14 Then You scare me with dreams and terrify me through visions," 
Job7:15 So that I would choose strangling and death rather than these my bones. 
Job7:16 I loathe my life; I would not live forever. Let me alone, for my days are a breath (futility)." 
Job7:17 What is man that You should magnify him and think him important? And that You should set Your mind upon him? [Ps. 8:4.] 
Job7:18 And that You should visit him every morning and try him every moment? 
Job7:19 How long will Your [plaguing] glance not look away from me, nor You let me alone till I swallow my spittle?" 
Job7:20 If I have sinned, what [harm] have I done You, O You Watcher and Keeper of men? Why have You set me as a mark for You, so that I am a burden to myself [and You]?" 
Job7:21 And why do You not pardon my transgression and take away my iniquity? For now shall I lie down in the dust; and [even if] You will seek me diligently, [it will be too late, for] I shall not be." 
Job8:1 THEN ANSWERED Bildad the Shuhite," 
Job8:2 How long will you say these things [Job]? And how long shall the words of your mouth be as a mighty wind? 
Job8:3 Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert righteousness? 
Job8:4 If your children have sinned against Him, then He has delivered them into the power of their transgression." 
Job8:5 If you will seek God diligently and make your supplication to the Almighty," 
Job8:6 Then, if you are pure and upright, surely He will bestir Himself for you and make your righteous dwelling prosperous again." 
Job8:7 And though your beginning was small, yet your latter end would greatly increase." 
Job8:8 For inquire, I pray you, of the former age and apply yourself to that which their fathers have searched out," 
Job8:9 For we are but of yesterday and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow." 
Job8:10 Shall not [the forefathers] teach you and tell you and utter words out of their hearts (the deepest part of their nature)? 
Job8:11 Can the rush or papyrus grow up without marsh? Can the flag or reed grass grow without water? 
Job8:12 While it is yet green, in flower, and not cut down, it withers before any other herb [when without water]." 
Job8:13 So are the ways of all who forget God; and the hope of the godless shall perish. 
Job8:14 For his confidence breaks, and [the object of] his trust is a spider's web." 
Job8:15 He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand; he shall hold fast to it, but it shall not last." 
Job8:16 He is green before the sun, and his shoots go forth over his garden." 
Job8:17 [Godless] his roots are wrapped about the [stone] heap, and see their way [promisingly] among the rocks." 
Job8:18 But if [God] snatches him from his property, [then having passed into the hands of others] it [his property] will forget and deny him, [saying,] I have never seen you [before, as if ashamed of him,like his former friends]." 
Job8:19 See, this is the joy of going the way [of the ungodly]! And from the dust others will spring up [to take his place]." 
Job8:20 Behold, as surely as God will never uphold wrongdoers, He will never cast away a blameless man." 
Job8:21 He will yet fill your mouth with laughter [Job] and your lips with joyful shouting. 
Job8:22 Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, and the tents of the wicked shall be no more." 
Job9:1 THEN JOB answered and said," 
Job9:2 Yes, I know it is true. But how can mortal man be right before God?" 
Job9:3 If one should want to contend with Him, he cannot answer one [of His questions] in a thousand." 
Job9:4 [God] is wise in heart and mighty in strength; who has [ever] hardened himself against Him and prospered or even been safe? 
Job9:5 [God] Who removes the mountains, and they know it not when He overturns them in His anger;" 
Job9:6 Who shakes the earth out of its place, and the pillars of it tremble;" 
Job9:7 Who commands the sun, and it rises not; Who seals up the stars [from view];" 
Job9:8 Who alone stretches out the heavens and treads upon the waves and high places of the sea; 
Job9:9 Who made [the constellations] the Bear, Orion, and the [loose cluster] Pleiades, and the [vast starry] spaces of the south;" 
Job9:10 Who does great things past finding out, yes, marvelous things without number." 
Job9:11 Behold, He goes by me, and I see Him not; He passes on also, but I perceive Him not." 
Job9:12 Behold, He snatches away; who can hinder or turn Him back? Who will say to Him, What are You doing?" 
Job9:13 God will not withdraw His anger; the [proud] helpers of Rahab [arrogant monster of the sea] bow under Him. 
Job9:14 How much less shall I answer Him, choosing out my words to reason with Him" 
Job9:15 Whom, though I were righteous (upright and innocent) yet I could not answer? I must appeal for mercy to my Opponent and Judge [for my right]." 
Job9:16 If I called and He answered me, yet would I not believe that He listened to my voice." 
Job9:17 For He overwhelms and breaks me with a tempest and multiplies my wounds without cause. 
Job9:18 He will not allow me to catch my breath, but fills me with bitterness." 
Job9:19 If I speak of strength, behold, He is mighty! And if of justice, Who, says He, will summon Me?" 
Job9:20 Though I am innocent and in the right, my own mouth would condemn me; though I am blameless, He would prove me perverse." 
Job9:21 Though I am blameless, I regard not myself; I despise my life." 
Job9:22 It is all one; therefore I say, God [does not discriminate, but] destroys the blameless and the wicked." 
Job9:23 When [His] scourge slays suddenly, He mocks at the calamity and trial of the innocent." 
Job9:24 The earth is given into the hands of the wicked; He covers the faces of its judges [so that they are blinded to justice]. If it is not [God], who then is it [responsible for all this inequality]?" 
Job9:25 Now my days are swifter than a runner; they flee away, they see no good." 
Job9:26 They are passed away like the swift rowboats made of reeds, or like the eagle that swoops down on the prey." 
Job9:27 If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will put off my sad countenance, and be of good cheer and brighten up," 
Job9:28 I become afraid of all my pains and sorrows [yet to come], for I know You will not pronounce me innocent [by removing them]." 
Job9:29 I shall be held guilty and be condemned; why then should I labor in vain [to appear innocent]? 
Job9:30 If I wash myself with snow and cleanse my hands with lye," 
Job9:31 Yet You will plunge me into the ditch, and my own clothes will abhor me [and refuse to cover so foul a body]." 
Job9:32 For [God] is not a [mere] man, as I am, that I should answer Him, that we should come together in court." 
Job9:33 There is no umpire between us, who might lay his hand upon us both, [would that there were!] [I Tim. 2:5.]" 
Job9:34 That He might take His rod away from [threatening] me, and that the fear of Him might not terrify me." 
Job9:35 [Then] would I speak and not fear Him, but I am not so in myself [to make me afraid, were only a fair trial given me]." 
Job10:1 I AM weary of my life and loathe it! I will give free expression to my complaint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. 
Job10:2 I will say to God, Do not condemn me [do not make me guilty]! Show me why You contend with me." 
Job10:3 Does it seem good to You that You should oppress, that You should despise and reject the work of Your hands, and favor the schemes of the wicked?" 
Job10:4 Have You eyes of flesh? Do You see as man sees? 
Job10:5 Are Your days as the days of man, are Your years as man's [years]," 
Job10:6 That You inquire after my iniquity and search for my sin, 
Job10:7 Although You know that I am not wicked or guilty and that there is none who can deliver me out of Your hand? 
Job10:8 Your hands have formed me and made me. Would You turn around and destroy me? 
Job10:9 Remember [earnestly], I beseech You, that You have fashioned me as clay [out of the same earth material, exquisitely and elaborately]. And will You bring me into dust again?" 
Job10:10 Have You not poured me out like milk and curdled me like cheese? 
Job10:11 You have clothed me with skin and flesh and have knit me together with bones and sinews. 
Job10:12 You have granted me life and favor, and Your providence has preserved my spirit." 
Job10:13 Yet these [the present evils] have You hid in Your heart [for me since my creation]; I know that this was with You [in Your purpose and thought]. 
Job10:14 If I sin, then You observe me, and You will not acquit me from my iniquity and guilt." 
Job10:15 If I am wicked, woe unto me! And if I am righteous, yet must I not lift up my head, for I am filled with disgrace and the sight of my affliction." 
Job10:16 If I lift myself up, You hunt me like a lion and again show Yourself [inflicting] marvelous [trials] upon me." 
Job10:17 You renew Your witnesses against me and increase Your indignation toward me; I am as if attacked by a troop time after time. 
Job10:18 Why then did You bring me forth out of the womb? Would that I had perished and no eye had seen me! 
Job10:19 I should have been as though I had not existed; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave. 
Job10:20 Are not my days few? Cease then and let me alone, that I may take a little comfort and cheer up" 
Job10:21 Before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death," 
Job10:22 The land of sunless gloom as intense darkness, [the land] of the shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as thick darkness." 
Job11:1 THEN ZOPHAR the Naamathite replied," 
Job11:2 Should not the multitude of words be answered? And should a man full of talk [and making such great professions] be pronounced free from guilt or blame? 
Job11:3 Should your boastings and babble make men keep silent? And when you mock and scoff, shall no man make you ashamed?" 
Job11:4 For you have said, My doctrine [that God afflicts the righteous knowingly] is pure, and I am clean in [God's] eyes. [Job 10:7.]" 
Job11:5 But oh, that God would speak, and open His lips against you," 
Job11:6 And that He would show you the secrets of wisdom! For He is manifold in understanding! Know therefore that God exacts of you less than your guilt and iniquity [deserve]. 
Job11:7 Can you find out the deep things of God, or can you by searching find out the limits of the Almighty [explore His depths, ascend to His heights, extend to His breadths, and comprehend His infinite perfection]?" 
Job11:8 His wisdom is as high as the heights of heaven! What can you do? It is deeper than Sheol (the place of the dead)! What can you know? 
Job11:9 Longer in measure [and scope] is it than the earth, and broader than the sea." 
Job11:10 If [God] sweeps in and arrests and calls into judgment, who can hinder Him? [If He is against a man, who shall call Him to account for it?]" 
Job11:11 For He recognizes and knows hollow, wicked, and useless men (men of falsehood); when He sees iniquity, will He not consider it?" 
Job11:12 But a stupid man will get wisdom [only] when a wild donkey's colt is born a man [as when he thinks himself free because he is lifted up in pride]. 
Job11:13 If you set your heart aright and stretch out your hands to [God]," 
Job11:14 If you put sin out of your hand and far away from you and let not evil dwell in your tents; 
Job11:15 Then can you lift up your face to Him without stain [of sin, and unashamed]; yes, you shall be steadfast and secure; you shall not fear." 
Job11:16 For you shall forget your misery; you shall remember it as waters that pass away. 
Job11:17 And [your] life shall be clearer than the noonday and rise above it; though there be darkness, it shall be as the morning." 
Job11:18 And you shall be secure and feel confident because there is hope; yes, you shall search about you, and you shall take your rest in safety." 
Job11:19 You shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid; yes, many shall sue for your favor." 
Job11:20 But the eyes of the wicked shall look [for relief] in vain, and they shall not escape [the justice of God]; and their hope shall be to give up the ghost." 
Job12:1 THEN JOB answered," 
Job12:2 No doubt you are the [only wise] people [in the world], and wisdom will die with you!" 
Job12:3 But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Who does not know such things as these [of God's wisdom and might]? 
Job12:4 I am become one who is a laughingstock to his friend; I, one whom God answered when he called upon Him,a just, upright (blameless) man,laughed to scorn!" 
Job12:5 In the thought of him who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune,but it is ready for those whose feet slip. 
Job12:6 The dwellings of robbers prosper; those who provoke God are [apparently] secure; God supplies them abundantly [who have no god but their own hands and power]. 
Job12:7 For ask now the animals, and they will teach you [that God does not deal with His creatures according to their character]; ask the birds of the air, and they will tell you;" 
Job12:8 Or speak to the earth [with its other forms of life], and it will teach you; and the fish of the sea will declare [this truth] to you." 
Job12:9 Who [is so blind as] not to recognize in all these [that good and evil are promiscuously scattered throughout nature and human life] that it is God's hand which does it [and God's way]? 
Job12:10 In His hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. 
Job12:11 Is it not the task of the ear to discriminate between [wise and unwise] words, just as the mouth distinguishes [between desirable and undesirable] food?" 
Job12:12 With the aged [you say] is wisdom, and with length of days comes understanding." 
Job12:13 But [only] with [God] are [perfect] wisdom and might; He [alone] has [true] counsel and understanding. 
Job12:14 Behold, He tears down, and it cannot be built again; He shuts a man in, and none can open." 
Job12:15 He withholds the waters, and the land dries up; again, He sends forth [rains], and they overwhelm the land or transform it." 
Job12:16 With Him are might and wisdom; the deceived and the deceiver are His [and in His power]. 
Job12:17 He leads [great and scheming] counselors away stripped and barefoot and makes the judges fools [in human estimation, by overthrowing their plans]." 
Job12:18 He looses the fetters [ordered] by kings and has [the] waistcloth [of a slave] bound about their [own] loins. 
Job12:19 He leads away priests as spoil, and men firmly seated He overturns." 
Job12:20 He deprives of speech those who are trusted and takes away the discernment and discretion of the aged. 
Job12:21 He pours contempt on princes and loosens the belt of the strong [disabling them, bringing low the pride of the learned]." 
Job12:22 He uncovers deep things out of darkness and brings into light black gloom and the shadow of death. 
Job12:23 He makes nations great, and He destroys them; He enlarges nations [and then straitens and shrinks them again], and leads them [away captive]." 
Job12:24 He takes away understanding from the leaders of the people of the land and of the earth, and causes them to wander in a wilderness where there is no path." 
Job12:25 They grope in the dark without light, and He makes them to stagger and wander like a drunken man." 
Job13:1 [JOB CONTINUED:] Behold, my eye has seen all this, my ear has heard and understood it." 
Job13:2 What you know, I also know; I am not inferior to you." 
Job13:3 Surely I wish to speak to the Almighty, and I desire to argue and reason my case with God [that He may explain the conflict between what I believe of Him and what I see of Him]." 
Job13:4 But you are forgers of lies [you defame my character most untruthfully]; you are all physicians of no value and have no remedy to offer. 
Job13:5 Oh, that you would altogether hold your peace! Then you would evidence your wisdom and you might pass for wise men." 
Job13:6 Hear now my reasoning, and listen to the pleadings of my lips." 
Job13:7 Will you speak unrighteously for God and talk deceitfully for Him? 
Job13:8 Will you show partiality to Him [be unjust to me in order to gain favor with Him]? Will you act as special pleaders for God? 
Job13:9 Would it be profitable for you if He should investigate your tactics [with me]? Or as one deceives and mocks a man, do you deceive and mock Him?" 
Job13:10 He will surely reprove you if you do secretly show partiality. 
Job13:11 Shall not His majesty make you afraid, and should not your awe for Him restrain you?" 
Job13:12 Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes [valueless]; your defenses are defenses of clay [and will crumble]. 
Job13:13 Hold your peace! Let me alone, so I may speak; and let come on me what may." 
Job13:14 Why should I take my flesh in my teeth and put my life in my hands [incurring the danger of God's wrath]? 
Job13:15 [I do it because, though He slay me, yet will I wait for and trust Him and] behold, He will slay me; I have no hope,nevertheless, I will maintain and argue my ways before Him and even to His face." 
Job13:16 This will be my salvation, that a polluted and godless man shall not come before Him." 
Job13:17 Listen diligently to my speech, and let my declaration be in your ears." 
Job13:18 Behold now, I have prepared my case; I know that I shall be justified and vindicated." 
Job13:19 Who is he who will argue against and refute me? For then I would hold my peace and expire. 
Job13:20 Only [O Lord] grant two conditions to me, and then will I not hide myself from You:" 
Job13:21 Withdraw Your hand and take this bodily suffering far from me; and let not my [reverent] dread of You terrify me. 
Job13:22 Then [Lord] call and I will answer, or let me speak, and You answer me." 
Job13:23 How many are my iniquities and sins [that so much sorrow should come to me]? Make me recognize and know my transgression and my sin. [Rom. 8:1.] 
Job13:24 Why do You hide Your face [as if offended] and alienate me as if I were Your enemy? 
Job13:25 Will You harass and frighten a [poor, helpless] leaf driven to and fro, and will You pursue the chaff of the dry stubble?" 
Job13:26 For You write bitter things against me [in Your bill of indictment] and make me inherit and be accountable now for the iniquities of my youth. 
Job13:27 You put my feet also in the stocks and observe critically all my paths; You set a circle and limit around the soles of my feet [which I must not overstep]. 
Job13:28 And he wastes away as a rotten thing, like a garment that is moth-eaten." 
Job14:1 MAN WHO is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble. 
Job14:2 He comes forth like a flower and withers; he flees also like a shadow and continues not. 
Job14:3 And [Lord] do You open Your eyes upon such a one, and bring me into judgment with You?" 
Job14:4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? No one! [Isa. 1:18; I John 1:7.] 
Job14:5 Since a man's days are already determined, and the number of his months is wholly in Your control, and he cannot pass the bounds of his allotted time," 
Job14:6 [O God] turn from him [and cease to watch him so pitilessly]; let him rest until he has accomplished as does a hireling the appointed time for his day. 
Job14:7 For there is hope for a tree if it is cut down, that it will sprout again and that the tender shoots of it will not cease. [But there is no such hope for man.]" 
Job14:8 Though its roots grow old in the earth and its stock dies in the ground," 
Job14:9 Yet through the scent [and breathing] of water [the stump of the tree] will bud and bring forth boughs like a young plant. 
Job14:10 But [the brave, strong] man must die and lie prostrate; yes, man breathes his last, and where is he?" 
Job14:11 As waters evaporate from the lake, and the river drains and dries up," 
Job14:12 So man lies down and does not rise [to his former state]. Till the heavens are no more, men will not awake nor be raised [physically] out of their sleep." 
Job14:13 Oh, that You would hide me in Sheol (the unseen state), that You would conceal me until Your wrath is past, that You would set a definite time and then remember me earnestly [and imprint me on your heart]!" 
Job14:14 If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my warfare and service I will wait, till my change and release shall come. [John 5:25; 6:40; I Thess. 4:16.]" 
Job14:15 [Then] You would call and I would answer You; You would yearn for [me] the work of Your hands. 
Job14:16 But now You number each of my steps and take note of my every sin. 
Job14:17 My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and You glue up my iniquity [to preserve it in full for the day of reckoning]." 
Job14:18 But as a mountain, if it falls, crumbles to nothing, and as the rock is removed out of its place," 
Job14:19 As waters wear away the stones and as floods wash away the soil of the earth, so You [O Lord] destroy the hope of man." 
Job14:20 You prevail forever against him, and he passes on; You change his appearance [in death] and send him away [from the presence of the living]." 
Job14:21 His sons come to honor, and he knows it not; they are brought low, and he perceives it not." 
Job14:22 But his body [lamenting its decay in the grave] shall grieve over him, and his soul shall mourn [over the body of clay which it once enlivened]." 
Job15:1 THEN ELIPHAZ the Temanite answered [Job]," 
Job15:2 Should a wise man utter such windy knowledge [as we have just heard] and fill himself with the east wind [of withering, parching, and violent accusations]?" 
Job15:3 Should he reason with unprofitable talk? Or with speeches with which he can do no good? 
Job15:4 Indeed, you are doing away with [reverential] fear, and you are hindering and diminishing meditation and devotion before God." 
Job15:5 For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the tongue of the crafty." 
Job15:6 Your own mouth condemns you, and not I; yes, your own lips testify against you." 
Job15:7 Are you the first man that was born [the original wise man]? Or were you created before the hills? 
Job15:8 Were you present to hear the secret counsel of God? And do you limit [the possession of] wisdom to yourself? 
Job15:9 What do you know that we know not? What do you understand that is not equally clear to us? 
Job15:10 Among us are both the gray-haired and the aged, older than your father by far." 
Job15:11 Are God's consolations [as we have interpreted them to you] too trivial for you? Is there any secret thing (any bosom sin) which you have not given up? [Or] were we too gentle [in our first speech] toward you to be effective? 
Job15:12 Why does your heart carry you away [why allow yourself to be controlled by feeling]? And why do your eyes flash [in anger or contempt]," 
Job15:13 That you turn your spirit against God and let [such] words [as you have spoken] go out of your mouth? 
Job15:14 What is man, that he could be pure and clean? And he who is born of a woman, that he could be right and just?" 
Job15:15 Behold, [God] puts no trust in His holy ones [the angels]; indeed, the heavens are not clean in His sight," 
Job15:16 How much less that which is abominable and corrupt, a man who drinks iniquity like water?" 
Job15:17 I will show you, hear me; and that which I have seen I will relate," 
Job15:18 What wise men have not hid but have freely communicated; it was told to them by their fathers," 
Job15:19 Unto whom alone the land was given, and no stranger intruded or passed among them [corrupting the truth]." 
Job15:20 The wicked man suffers with [self-inflicted] torment all his days, through all the years that are numbered and laid up for him, the oppressor." 
Job15:21 A [dreadful] sound of terrors is in his ears; in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him [the dwellings of robbers are not at peace]. 
Job15:22 He believes that he will not return out of darkness, and [because of his guilt] he is waited for by the sword [of God's vengeance]." 
Job15:23 He wanders abroad for food, saying, Where is it? He knows that the day of darkness and destruction is already close upon him." 
Job15:24 Distress and anguish terrify him; [he knows] they shall prevail against him, like a king ready for battle." 
Job15:25 Because he has stretched out his hand against God and bids defiance and behaves himself proudly against the Almighty," 
Job15:26 Running stubbornly against Him with a thickly ornamented shield; 
Job15:27 Because he has covered his face with his fat, adding layers of fat on his loins [giving himself up to animal pleasures]," 
Job15:28 And has lived in desolate [God-forsaken] cities and in houses which no man should inhabit, which were destined to become heaps [of ruins];" 
Job15:29 He shall not be rich, neither shall his wealth last, neither shall his produce bend to the earth nor his possessions be extended on the earth." 
Job15:30 He shall not depart out of darkness [and escape from calamity; the wrath of God] shall consume him as flame consumes a dry tree, and by the blast of His mouth he shall be swept away." 
Job15:31 Let him not deceive himself and trust in vanity (emptiness, falseness, and futility), for these shall be his recompense [for such living]." 
Job15:32 It shall be accomplished and paid in full while he still lives, and his branch shall not be green [but shall wither away]." 
Job15:33 He shall fail to bring his grapes to maturity [leaving them to wither unnourished] on the vine and shall cast off blossoms [and fail to bring forth fruit] like the olive tree. 
Job15:34 For the company of the godless shall be barren, and fire shall consume the tents of bribery (wrong and injustice)." 
Job15:35 They conceive mischief and bring forth iniquity, and their inmost soul hatches deceit." 
Job16:1 THEN JOB answered," 
Job16:2 I have heard many such things; wearisome and miserable comforters are you all! 
Job16:3 Will your futile words of wind have no end? Or what makes you so bold to answer [me like this]? 
Job16:4 I also could speak as you do, if you were in my stead; I could join words together against you and shake my head at you." 
Job16:5 [But] I would strengthen and encourage you with [the words of] my mouth, and the consolation of my lips would soothe your suffering." 
Job16:6 If I speak [to you miserable comforters], my sorrow is not soothed or lessened; and if I refrain [from speaking], in what way am I eased? [I hardly know whether to answer you or be silent.]" 
Job16:7 But now [God] has taken away my strength. You [O Lord] have made desolate all my family and associates. 
Job16:8 You have laid firm hold on me and have shriveled me up, which is a witness against me; and my leanness [and wretched state of body] are further evidence [against me]; [they] testify to my face." 
Job16:9 [My adversary Satan] has torn [me] in his wrath and hated and persecuted me; he has gnashed upon me with his teeth; my adversary sharpens his eyes against me. 
Job16:10 [The forces of evil] have gaped at me with their mouths; they have struck me upon the cheek insolently; they massed themselves together and conspired unanimously against me. [Ps. 22:13; 35:21.] 
Job16:11 God has delivered me to the ungodly (to the evil one) and cast me [headlong] into the hands of the wicked (Satan's host). 
Job16:12 I was living at ease, but [Satan] crushed me and broke me apart; yes, he seized me by the neck and dashed me in pieces; then he set me up for his target." 
Job16:13 [Satan's] arrows whiz around me. He slashes open my vitals and does not spare; he pours out my gall on the ground. 
Job16:14 [Satan] stabs me, making breach after breach and attacking again and again; he runs at me like a giant and irresistible warrior." 
Job16:15 I have sewed sackcloth over my skin [as a sign of mourning] and have defiled my horn (my insignia of strength) in the dust. 
Job16:16 My face is red and swollen with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of death [my eyes are dimmed]," 
Job16:17 Although there is no guilt or violence in my hands and my prayer is pure. 
Job16:18 O earth, cover not my blood, and let my cry have no resting-place [where it will cease being heard]." 
Job16:19 Even now, behold, my Witness is in heaven, and He who vouches for me is on high. [Rom. 1:9.]" 
Job16:20 My friends scorn me, but my eye pours out tears to God." 
Job16:21 Oh, that there might be one who would plead for a man with God and that he would maintain his right with Him, as a son of man pleads with or for his neighbor! [I Tim. 2:5.]" 
Job16:22 For when a few years are come, I shall go the way from which I shall not return." 
Job17:1 MY SPIRIT is broken, my days are spent (snuffed out); the grave is ready for me." 
Job17:2 Surely there are mockers and mockery around me, and my eye dwells on their obstinacy, insults, and resistance." 
Job17:3 Give me a pledge with Yourself [acknowledge my innocence before my death]; who is there that will give security for me? 
Job17:4 But their hearts [Lord] You have closed to understanding; therefore You will not let them triumph [by giving them a verdict against me]. 
Job17:5 He who denounces his friends [in order to make them] a prey and get a share, the eyes of his children shall fail [to find food]." 
Job17:6 But He has made me a byword among the people, and they spit before my face." 
Job17:7 My eye has grown dim because of grief, and all my members are [wasted away] like a shadow." 
Job17:8 Upright men shall be astonished and appalled at this, and the innocent shall stir himself up against the godless and polluted." 
Job17:9 Yet shall the righteous (those upright and in right standing with God) hold to their ways, and he who has clean hands shall grow stronger and stronger. [Ps. 24:4.]" 
Job17:10 But as for you, come on again, all of you, though I find not a wise man among you." 
Job17:11 My days are past, my purposes and plans are frustrated; even the thoughts (desires and possessions) of my heart [are broken off]." 
Job17:12 These [thoughts] extend from the night into the day, [so that] the light is short because of darkness." 
Job17:13 But if I look to Sheol (the unseen state) as my abode, if I spread my couch in the darkness," 
Job17:14 If I say to the grave and corruption, You are my father, and to the worm [that feeds on decay], You are my mother and my sister [because I will soon be closest to you]," 
Job17:15 Where then is my hope? And if I have hope, who will see [its fulfillment]?" 
Job17:16 [My hope] shall go down to the bars of Sheol (the unseen state) when once there is rest in the dust. 
Job18:1 THEN BILDAD the Shuhite answered," 
Job18:2 How long will you lay snares for words and have to hunt for your argument? Do some clear thinking, and then we will reply." 
Job18:3 Why are we counted as beasts [as if we had no sense]? Why are we unclean in your sight? 
Job18:4 You who tear yourself in your anger, shall the earth be forsaken for you, or the rock be removed out of its place?" 
Job18:5 Yes, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the flame of his fire shall not shine. [Prov. 13:9; 24:20.]" 
Job18:6 The light shall be dark in his dwelling, and his lamp beside him shall be put out. [Ps. 18:28.]" 
Job18:7 The steps of his strength shall be shortened, and his own counsel and the plans in which he trusted shall bring about his downfall." 
Job18:8 For the wicked is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walks upon a lattice-covered pit." 
Job18:9 A trap will catch him by the heel, and a snare will lay hold on him." 
Job18:10 A noose is hidden for him on the ground and a trap for him in the way. 
Job18:11 Terrors shall make him afraid on every side and shall chase him at his heels. 
Job18:12 The strength [of the wicked] shall be hunger-bitten, and calamity is ready at his side [if he halts]." 
Job18:13 By disease his strength and his skin shall be devoured; the firstborn of death [the worst of diseases] shall consume his limbs. 
Job18:14 He shall be rooted out of his dwelling place in which he trusted, and he shall be brought to the king of terrors [death]." 
Job18:15 There shall dwell in his tent that which is none of his [family]; sulphur shall be scattered over his dwelling [to purify it after his going]. 
Job18:16 The roots [of the wicked] shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off and wither." 
Job18:17 His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the street." 
Job18:18 He shall be thrust from light into darkness and driven out of the world. 
Job18:19 He shall neither have son nor grandson among his people, nor any remaining where he sojourned." 
Job18:20 They [of the west] that come after [the wicked man] shall be astonished and appalled at his day, as they [of the east] that went before were seized with horror." 
Job18:21 Surely such are the dwellings of the ungodly, and such is the place of him who knows not (recognizes not and honors not) God." 
Job19:1 THEN JOB answered: 
Job19:2 How long will you vex and torment me and break me in pieces with words? 
Job19:3 These ten times you have reproached me; you are not ashamed that you make yourselves strange [harden yourselves against me and deal severely with me]. 
Job19:4 And if it were true that I have erred, my error would remain with me [I would be conscious of it]." 
Job19:5 If indeed you magnify yourselves against me and plead against me my reproach and humiliation," 
Job19:6 Know that God has overthrown and put me in the wrong and has closed His net about me. 
Job19:7 Behold, I cry out, Violence! but I am not heard; I cry aloud for help, but there is no justice." 
Job19:8 He has walled up my way so that I cannot pass, and He has set darkness upon my paths." 
Job19:9 He has stripped me of my glory and taken the crown from my head. 
Job19:10 He has broken me down on every side, and I am gone; my hope has He pulled up like a tree." 
Job19:11 He has also kindled His wrath against me, and He counts me as one of His adversaries." 
Job19:12 His troops come together and cast up their way and siege works against me and encamp round about my tent. 
Job19:13 He has put my brethren far from me, and my acquaintances are wholly estranged from me." 
Job19:14 My kinsfolk have failed me, and my familiar friends have forgotten me." 
Job19:15 Those who live temporarily in my house and my maids count me as a stranger; I am an alien in their sight. 
Job19:16 I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer, though I beseech him with words." 
Job19:17 I am repulsive to my wife and loathsome to the children of my own mother. 
Job19:18 Even young children despise me; when I get up, they speak against me." 
Job19:19 All the men of my council and my familiar friends abhor me; those whom I loved are turned against me. 
Job19:20 My bone clings to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped with the skin or gums of my teeth." 
Job19:21 Have pity on me! Have pity on me, O you my friends, for the hand of God has touched me!" 
Job19:22 Why do you, as if you were God, pursue and persecute me? [Acting like wild beasts] why are you not satisfied with my flesh?" 
Job19:23 Oh, that the words I now speak were written! Oh, that they were inscribed in a book [carved on a tablet of stone]!" 
Job19:24 That with an iron pen and [molten] lead they were graven in the rock forever! 
Job19:25 For I know that my Redeemer and Vindicator lives, and at last He [the Last One] will stand upon the earth. [Isa. 44:6; 48:12.]" 
Job19:26 And after my skin, even this body, has been destroyed, then from my flesh or without it I shall see God," 
Job19:27 Whom I, even I, shall see for myself and on my side! And my eyes shall behold Him, and not as a stranger! My heart pines away and is consumed within me." 
Job19:28 If you say, How we will pursue him! [and continue to persecute me with the claim] that the root [cause] of all these [afflictions] is found in me," 
Job19:29 Then beware and be afraid of the sword [of divine vengeance], for wrathful are the punishments of that sword, that you may know there is a judgment." 
Job20:1 THEN ZOPHAR the Naamathite answered," 
Job20:2 Therefore do my thoughts give me an answer, and I make haste [to offer it] for this reason." 
Job20:3 I have heard the reproof which puts me to shame, but out of my understanding my spirit answers me." 
Job20:4 Do you not know from of old, since the time that man was placed on the earth," 
Job20:5 That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless and defiled is but for a moment? [Ps. 37:35, 36.]" 
Job20:6 Though his [proud] height mounts up to the heavens and his head reaches to the clouds," 
Job20:7 Yet he will perish forever like his own dung; those who have seen him will say, Where is he?" 
Job20:8 He will fly away like a dream and will not be found; yes, he will be chased away as a vision of the night." 
Job20:9 The eye which saw him will see him no more, neither will his [accustomed] place any more behold him." 
Job20:10 The poor will oppress his children, and his hands will give back his [ill-gotten] wealth." 
Job20:11 His bones are full of youthful energy, but it will lie down with him in the dust." 
Job20:12 Though wickedness is sweet in his mouth, though he hides it under his tongue," 
Job20:13 Though he is loath to let it go but keeps it still within his mouth," 
Job20:14 Yet his food turns [to poison] in his stomach; it is the venom of asps within him. 
Job20:15 He has swallowed down [his ill-gotten] riches, and he shall vomit them up again; God will cast them out of his belly." 
Job20:16 He shall suck the poison of asps [which ill-gotten wealth contains]; the viper's tongue shall slay him. 
Job20:17 He shall not look upon the rivers, the flowing streams of honey and butter [to enjoy his wealth]." 
Job20:18 That which he labored for shall he give back and shall not swallow it down [to enjoy it]; according to his wealth shall the restitution be, and he shall not rejoice in it." 
Job20:19 For he has oppressed and forsaken the poor; he has violently taken away a house which he did not build. 
Job20:20 Because his desire and greed knew no quietness within him, he will not save anything of that in which he delights." 
Job20:21 There was nothing left that he did not devour; therefore his prosperity will not endure. 
Job20:22 In the fullness of his sufficiency [in the time of his great abundance] he shall be poor and in straits; every hand of everyone who is in misery shall come upon him [he is but a wretch on every side]. 
Job20:23 When he is about to fill his belly [as in the wilderness when God sent the quails], God will cast the fierceness of His wrath upon him and will rain it upon him while he is eating. [Num. 11:33; Ps. 78:26-31.]" 
Job20:24 He will flee from the iron weapon, but the bow of bronze shall strike him through." 
Job20:25 [The arrow] is drawn forth and it comes out after passing through his body; yes, the glittering point comes out of his gall. Terrors march in upon him;" 
Job20:26 Every misfortune is laid up for his treasures. A fire not blown by man shall devour him; it shall consume what is left in his tent [and it shall go ill with him who remains there]. 
Job20:27 The heavens shall reveal his iniquity, and the earth shall rise up against him." 
Job20:28 The produce and increase of his house will go into exile [with the victors], dragged away in the day of [God's] wrath." 
Job20:29 This is the wicked man's portion from God, and the heritage appointed to him by God." 
Job21:1 THEN JOB answered," 
Job21:2 Hear diligently my speech, and let this [your attention] be your consolation [given me]." 
Job21:3 Allow me, and I also will speak; and after I have spoken, mock on." 
Job21:4 As for me, is my complaint to man or of him? And why should I not be impatient and my spirit be troubled?" 
Job21:5 Look at me and be astonished (appalled); and lay your hand upon your mouth. 
Job21:6 Even when I remember, I am troubled and afraid; horror and trembling take hold of my flesh." 
Job21:7 Why do the wicked live, become old, and become mighty in power?" 
Job21:8 Their children are established with them in their sight, and their offspring before their eyes." 
Job21:9 Their houses are safe and in peace, without fear; neither is the rod of God upon them." 
Job21:10 Their bull breeds and fails not; their cows calve and do not miscarry. 
Job21:11 They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children skip about." 
Job21:12 They themselves lift up their voices and sing to the tambourine and the lyre and rejoice to the sound of the pipe. 
Job21:13 They spend their days in prosperity and go down to Sheol (the unseen state) in a moment and peacefully. 
Job21:14 Yet they say to God, Depart from us, for we do not desire the knowledge of Your ways." 
Job21:15 Who is the Almighty, that we should serve Him? And what profit do we have if we pray to Him? [Exod. 5:2.]" 
Job21:16 But notice, [you say] the prosperity of the wicked is not in their power; the mystery [of God's dealings] with the ungodly is far from my comprehension." 
Job21:17 How often [then] is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out? That their calamity comes upon them? That God distributes pains and sorrows to them in His anger? [Luke 12:46.] 
Job21:18 That they are like stubble before the wind and like chaff that the storm steals and carries away? 
Job21:19 You say, God lays up [the punishment of the wicked man's] iniquity for his children. Let Him recompense it to the man himself, that he may know and feel it." 
Job21:20 Let his own eyes see his destruction, and let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty." 
Job21:21 For what pleasure or interest has a man in his house and family after he is dead, when the number of his months is cut off?" 
Job21:22 Shall any teach God knowledge, seeing that He judges those who are on high? [Rom. 11:34; I Cor. 2:16.]" 
Job21:23 One dies in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet;" 
Job21:24 His pails are full of milk [his veins are filled with nourishment], and the marrow of his bones is fresh and moist," 
Job21:25 Whereas another man dies in bitterness of soul and never tastes of pleasure or good fortune. 
Job21:26 They lie down alike in the dust, and the worm spreads a covering over them." 
Job21:27 Behold, I know your thoughts and plans and the devices with which you would wrong me." 
Job21:28 For you say, Where is the house of the rich and liberal prince [meaning me]? And where is the tent in which the wicked [Job] dwelt?" 
Job21:29 Have you not asked those who travel this way, and do you not accept their testimony and evidences," 
Job21:30 That the evil man is [now] spared in the day of calamity and destruction, and they are led forth and away on the day of [God's] wrath?" 
Job21:31 But who declares [a man's] way [and rebukes] him to his face? And who pays him back for what he has done? 
Job21:32 When he is borne to the grave, watch is kept over his tomb." 
Job21:33 The clods of the valley are sweet to him, and every man shall follow him to a grave, as innumerable people [have gone] before him." 
Job21:34 How then can you comfort me with empty and futile words, since in your replies there lurks falsehood?" 
Job22:1 THEN ELIPHAZ the Temanite answered [Job]," 
Job22:2 Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he that is wise is profitable to himself. [Ps. 16:2; Luke 17:10.] 
Job22:3 Is it any pleasure or advantage to the Almighty that you are righteous (upright and in right standing with Him)? Or is it gain to Him that you make your ways perfect? [Isa. 62:3; Zech. 2:8; Mal. 3:17; Acts 20:28.] 
Job22:4 Is it for your [reverential] fear of Him that He [thus] reproves you, that He enters with you into judgment?" 
Job22:5 Is not your wickedness great? There is no end to your iniquities. 
Job22:6 For you have taken pledges of your brother for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing." 
Job22:7 You have not given water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry. [Matt. 25:42.]" 
Job22:8 But [you, Job] the man with power possessed the land, and the favored and accepted man dwelt in it." 
Job22:9 You have sent widows away empty-handed, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken." 
Job22:10 Therefore snares are round about you, and sudden fear troubles and overwhelms you;" 
Job22:11 Your light is darkened, so that you cannot see, and a flood of water covers you." 
Job22:12 Is not God in the height of heaven? And behold the height of the stars, how high they are!" 
Job22:13 Therefore you say, How and what does God know [about me]? Can He judge through the thick darkness?" 
Job22:14 Thick clouds are a covering to Him, so that He does not see, and He walks on the vault of the heavens." 
Job22:15 Will you pay attention and keep to the old way that wicked men trod [in Noah's time], [II Pet. 2:5.]" 
Job22:16 Men who were snatched away before their time, whose foundations were poured out like a stream [during the flood]?" 
Job22:17 They said to God, Depart from us, and, What can the Almighty do for or to us?" 
Job22:18 Yet He filled their houses with good [things]. But the counsel of the ungodly is far from me. 
Job22:19 The righteous see it and are glad; and the innocent laugh them to scorn [saying]," 
Job22:20 Surely those who rose up against us are cut off, and that which remained to them the fire has consumed." 
Job22:21 Acquaint now yourself with Him [agree with God and show yourself to be conformed to His will] and be at peace; by that [you shall prosper and great] good shall come to you. 
Job22:22 Receive, I pray you, the law and instruction from His mouth and lay up His words in your heart. [Ps. 119:11.]" 
Job22:23 If you return to the Almighty [and submit and humble yourself before Him], you will be built up; if you put away unrighteousness far from your tents," 
Job22:24 If you lay gold in the dust, and the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brook [considering them of little worth]," 
Job22:25 And make the Almighty your gold and [the Lord] your precious silver treasure," 
Job22:26 Then you will have delight in the Almighty, and you will lift up your face to God." 
Job22:27 You will make your prayer to Him, and He will hear you, and you will pay your vows." 
Job22:28 You shall also decide and decree a thing, and it shall be established for you; and the light [of God's favor] shall shine upon your ways." 
Job22:29 When they make [you] low, you will say, [There is] a lifting up; and the humble person He lifts up and saves." 
Job22:30 He will even deliver the one [for whom you intercede] who is not innocent; yes, he will be delivered through the cleanness of your hands. [Job 42:7, 8.]" 
Job23:1 THEN JOB answered," 
Job23:2 Even today is my complaint rebellious and bitter; my stroke is heavier than my groaning. 
Job23:3 Oh, that I knew where I might find Him, that I might come even to His seat!" 
Job23:4 I would lay my cause before Him and fill my mouth with arguments. 
Job23:5 I would learn what He would answer me, and understand what He would say to me." 
Job23:6 Would He plead against me with His great power? No, He would give heed to me. [Isa. 27:4, 5; 57:16.]" 
Job23:7 There the righteous [one who is upright and in right standing with God] could reason with Him; so I should be acquitted by my Judge forever. 
Job23:8 Behold, I go forward [and to the east], but He is not there; I go backward [and to the west], but I cannot perceive Him;" 
Job23:9 On the left hand [and to the north] where He works [I seek Him], but I cannot behold Him; He turns Himself to the right hand [and to the south], but I cannot see Him." 
Job23:10 But He knows the way that I take [He has concern for it, appreciates, and pays attention to it]. When He has tried me, I shall come forth as refined gold [pure and luminous]. [Ps. 17:3; 66:10; James 1:12.]" 
Job23:11 My foot has held fast to His steps; His ways have I kept and not turned aside. 
Job23:12 I have not gone back from the commandment of His lips; I have esteemed and treasured the words of His mouth more than my necessary food. 
Job23:13 But He is unchangeable, and who can turn Him? And what He wants to do, that He does." 
Job23:14 For He performs [that which He has] planned for me, and of many such matters He is mindful." 
Job23:15 Therefore am I troubled and terrified at His presence; when I consider, I am in dread and afraid of Him." 
Job23:16 For God has made my heart faint, timid, and broken, and the Almighty has terrified me," 
Job23:17 Because I was not cut off before the darkness [of these woes befell me], neither has He covered the thick darkness from my face." 
Job24:1 WHY [seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty] does He not set seasons for judgment? Why do those who know Him see not His days [for punishment of the wicked]? [Acts 1:7.] 
Job24:2 Some remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks and pasture them [appropriating land and flocks openly]. 
Job24:3 They drive away the donkey of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge. 
Job24:4 They crowd the poor and needy off the road; the poor and meek of the earth all hide themselves. 
Job24:5 Behold, as wild asses in the desert, [the poor] go forth to their work, seeking diligently for prey and food; the wilderness yields them bread for their children [in roots and herbage]." 
Job24:6 They reap each one his fodder in a field [that is not his own], and they glean the vintage of the wicked man." 
Job24:7 They lie all night naked, without clothing, and have no covering in the cold." 
Job24:8 They are wet with the showers of the mountains and cling to the rock for want of shelter. 
Job24:9 [The violent men whose wickedness seems unnoticed] pluck the fatherless infants from the breast [to sell or make them slaves], and take [the clothing on] the poor for a pledge," 
Job24:10 So that the needy go about naked for lack of clothing, and though hungry, they must carry [but not eat from] the sheaves." 
Job24:11 Among the olive rows [of the wicked, the poor] make oil; they tread [the fresh juice of the grape from] the presses, but suffer thirst." 
Job24:12 From out of the populous city men groan, and the very life of the wounded cries for help; yet God [seemingly] regards not the wrong done them." 
Job24:13 These wrongdoers are of those who rebel against the light; they know not its ways nor stay in its paths. 
Job24:14 The murderer rises with the light; he kills the poor and the needy, and in the night he becomes as a thief." 
Job24:15 The eye also of the adulterer waits for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me, and he puts a disguise upon his face." 
Job24:16 In the dark, they dig through [the penetrable walls of] houses; by day they shut themselves up; they do not know the sunlight." 
Job24:17 For midnight is morning to all of them; for they are familiar with the terrors of deep darkness. 
Job24:18 [You say] Swiftly such men pass away on the face of the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth; [no treader] turns into their vineyards. 
Job24:19 Drought and heat consume the snow waters; so does Sheol (the place of the dead) those who have sinned. 
Job24:20 The womb shall forget him, the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered, and unrighteousness shall be broken like a tree [which cannot be healed]. [Prov. 10:7.]" 
Job24:21 [The evil man] preys upon the barren, childless woman and does no good to the widow." 
Job24:22 Yet [God] prolongs the life of the [wicked] mighty by His power; they rise up when they had despaired of life. 
Job24:23 God gives them security, and they rest on it; and His eyes are upon their ways." 
Job24:24 They are exalted for a little while, and then are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all others are and are cut off as the tops of the ears of grain." 
Job24:25 And if this is not so, who will prove me a liar and make my speech worthless?" 
Job25:1 THEN BILDAD the Shuhite answered," 
Job25:2 Dominion and fear are with [God]; He makes peace in His high places. 
Job25:3 Is there any number to His armies? And upon whom does not His light arise? 
Job25:4 How then can man be justified and righteous before God? Or how can he who is born of a woman be pure and clean? [Ps. 130:3; 143:2.] 
Job25:5 Behold, even the moon has no brightness [compared to God's glory] and the stars are not pure in His sight," 
Job25:6 How much less man, who is a maggot! And a son of man, who is a worm!" 
Job26:1 BUT JOB answered," 
Job26:2 How you have helped him who is without power! How you have sustained the arm that is without strength! 
Job26:3 How you have counseled him who has no wisdom! And how plentifully you have declared to him sound knowledge! 
Job26:4 With whose assistance have you uttered these words? And whose spirit [inspired what] came forth from you? 
Job26:5 The shades of the dead tremble underneath the waters and their inhabitants. 
Job26:6 Sheol (the place of the dead) is naked before God, and Abaddon (the place of destruction) has no covering [from His eyes]." 
Job26:7 He it is Who spreads out the northern skies over emptiness and hangs the earth upon or over nothing. 
Job26:8 He holds the waters bound in His clouds [which otherwise would spill on earth all at once], and the cloud is not rent under them." 
Job26:9 He covers the face of His throne and spreads over it His cloud. 
Job26:10 He has placed an enclosing limit [the horizon] upon the waters at the boundary between light and darkness. 
Job26:11 The pillars of the heavens tremble and are astonished at His rebuke. 
Job26:12 He stills or stirs up the sea by His power, and by His understanding He smites proud Rahab." 
Job26:13 By His breath the heavens are garnished; His hand pierced the [swiftly] fleeing serpent. [Ps. 33:6.] 
Job26:14 Yet these are but [a small part of His doings] the outskirts of His ways or the mere fringes of His force, the faintest whisper of His voice! Who dares contemplate or who can understand the thunders of His full, magnificent power?" 
Job27:1 JOB AGAIN took up his discourse and said," 
Job27:2 As God lives, Who has taken away my right and denied me justice, and the Almighty, Who has vexed and embittered my life," 
Job27:3 As long as my life is still whole within me, and the breath of God is [yet] in my nostrils," 
Job27:4 My lips shall not speak untruth, nor shall my tongue utter deceit." 
Job27:5 God forbid that I should justify you,saying you are right [in your accusations against me]; till I die, I will not put away my integrity from me." 
Job27:6 My uprightness and my right standing with God I hold fast and will not let them go; my heart does not reproach me for any of my days and it shall not reproach me as long as I live. 
Job27:7 Let my enemy be as the wicked, and let him who rises up against me be as the unrighteous." 
Job27:8 For what is the hope of the godless and polluted, even though he has gained [in this world], when God cuts him off and takes away his life?" 
Job27:9 Will God hear his cry when trouble comes upon him? 
Job27:10 Will he take delight in the Almighty? Will he call upon God at all times? 
Job27:11 I will teach you regarding the hand and handiwork of God; that which is with the Almighty [God's actual treatment of the wicked man] will I not conceal. 
Job27:12 Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves; why then have you become altogether vain [cherishing foolish notions]?" 
Job27:13 This [which I am about to tell] is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage which oppressors shall receive from the Almighty:" 
Job27:14 If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword; and his offspring will not have sufficient bread." 
Job27:15 Those who survive him, [the pestilence] will bury, and [their] widows will make no lamentation." 
Job27:16 Though he heaps up silver like dust and piles up clothing like clay," 
Job27:17 He may prepare it, but the just will wear it, and the innocent will divide the silver." 
Job27:18 He builds his house like a moth or a spider, like a booth which a watchman makes [to last for a season]." 
Job27:19 [The wicked] will lie down rich, but does it not again; he opens his eyes, and [his wealth] is gone." 
Job27:20 Terrors overtake him like a [suddenly loosened] flood; a windstorm steals him away in the night. 
Job27:21 The east wind lifts him up, and he is gone; it sweeps him out of his place." 
Job27:22 For [God and the storm] hurl at him without pity and unsparingly [their thunderbolts of wrath]; he flees in haste before His power. 
Job27:23 [God causes] men to clap their hands at him [in malignant joy] and hiss him out of his place. 
Job28:1 SURELY THERE is a mine for silver, and a place for gold where they refine it." 
Job28:2 Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted from the stone ore." 
Job28:3 Man sets an end to darkness, and he searches out the farthest bounds for the ore buried in gloom and deep darkness." 
Job28:4 Men break open shafts away from where people sojourn, in places forgotten by [human] foot; and [descend into them], hanging afar from men, they swing or flit to and fro." 
Job28:5 As for the earth, out of it comes bread, but underneath [its surface, down deep in the mine] there is blasting, turning it up as by fire." 
Job28:6 Its stones are the bed of sapphires; it holds dust of gold [which he wins]. 
Job28:7 That path no bird of prey knows, and the falcon's eye has not seen it." 
Job28:8 The proud beasts [and their young] have not trodden it, nor has the fierce lion passed over it." 
Job28:9 Man puts forth his hand upon the flinty rock; he overturns the mountains by the roots. 
Job28:10 He cuts out channels and passages among the rocks; and his eye sees every precious thing. 
Job28:11 [Man] binds the streams so that they do not trickle [into the mine], and the thing that is hidden he brings forth to light." 
Job28:12 But where shall Wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? 
Job28:13 Man knows not the price of it; neither is it found in the land of the living. 
Job28:14 The deep says, [Wisdom] is not in me; and the sea says, It is not with me." 
Job28:15 It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price of it." 
Job28:16 It cannot be valued in [terms of] the gold of Ophir, in the precious onyx or beryl, or the sapphire." 
Job28:17 Gold and glass cannot equal [Wisdom], nor can it be exchanged for jewels or vessels of fine gold." 
Job28:18 No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal; for the possession of Wisdom is even above rubies or pearls. 
Job28:19 The topaz of Ethiopia cannot compare with it, nor can it be valued in pure gold." 
Job28:20 From where then does Wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding? 
Job28:21 It is hidden from the eyes of all living, and knowledge of it is withheld from the birds of the heavens." 
Job28:22 Abaddon (the place of destruction) and Death say, We have [only] heard the report of it with our ears." 
Job28:23 God understands the way [to Wisdom] and He knows the place of it [Wisdom is with God alone]. 
Job28:24 For He looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens. 
Job28:25 When He gave to the wind weight or pressure and allotted the waters by measure," 
Job28:26 When He made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder," 
Job28:27 Then He saw [Wisdom] and declared it; He established it, yes, and searched it out [for His own use, and He alone possesses it]." 
Job28:28 But to man He said, Behold, the reverential and worshipful fear of the Lord,that is Wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding." 
Job29:1 AND JOB again took up his discussion and said," 
Job29:2 Oh, that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me, [Eccl. 7:10.]" 
Job29:3 When His lamp shone above and upon my head and by His light I walked through darkness; 
Job29:4 As I was in the [prime] ripeness of my days, when the friendship and counsel of God were over my tent," 
Job29:5 When the Almighty was yet with me and my children were about me," 
Job29:6 When my steps [through rich pasturage] were washed with butter and the rock poured out for me streams of oil! 
Job29:7 When I went out to the gate of the city, when I prepared my seat in the street [the broad place for the council at the city's gate]," 
Job29:8 The young men saw me and hid themselves; the aged rose up and stood; 
Job29:9 The princes refrained from talking and laid their hands on their mouths; 
Job29:10 The voices of the nobles were hushed, and their tongues cleaved to the roof of their mouths." 
Job29:11 For when the ear heard, it called me happy and blessed me; and when the eye saw, it testified for me [approvingly]," 
Job29:12 Because I delivered the poor who cried, the fatherless and him who had none to help him." 
Job29:13 The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy." 
Job29:14 I put on righteousness, and it clothed me or clothed itself with me; my justice was like a robe and a turban or a diadem or a crown!" 
Job29:15 I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame." 
Job29:16 I was a father to the poor and needy; the cause of him I did not know I searched out. 
Job29:17 And I broke the jaws or the big teeth of the unrighteous and plucked the prey out of his teeth. 
Job29:18 Then I said, I shall die in or beside my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand." 
Job29:19 My root is spread out and open to the waters, and the dew lies all night upon my branch." 
Job29:20 My glory and honor are fresh in me [being constantly renewed], and my bow gains [ever] new strength in my hand." 
Job29:21 Men listened to me and waited and kept silence for my counsel. 
Job29:22 After I spoke, they did not speak again, and my speech dropped upon them [like a refreshing shower]." 
Job29:23 And they waited for me as for the rain, and they opened their mouths wide as for the spring rain." 
Job29:24 I smiled on them when they had no confidence, and their depression did not cast down the light of my countenance." 
Job29:25 I chose their way [for them] and sat as [their] chief, and dwelt like a king among his soldiers, like one who comforts mourners." 
Job30:1 BUT NOW they who are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I disdained to set with the dogs of my flock." 
Job30:2 Yes, how could the strength of their hands profit me? They were men whose ripe age and vigor had perished." 
Job30:3 They are gaunt with want and famine; they gnaw the dry and barren ground or flee into the wilderness, into the gloom of wasteness and desolation." 
Job30:4 They pluck saltwort or mallows among the bushes, and roots of the broom for their food or to warm them." 
Job30:5 They are driven from among men, who shout after them as after a thief." 
Job30:6 They must dwell in the clefts of frightful valleys (gullies made by torrents) and in holes of the earth and of the rocks. 
Job30:7 Among the bushes they bray and howl [like wild animals]; beneath the prickly scrub they fling themselves and huddle together. 
Job30:8 Sons of the worthless and nameless, they have been scourged and crushed out of the land." 
Job30:9 And now I have become their song; yes, I am a byword to them." 
Job30:10 They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, and do not refrain from spitting in my face or at the sight of me." 
Job30:11 For God has loosed my bowstring and afflicted and humbled me; they have cast off the bridle [of restraint] before me. 
Job30:12 On my right hand rises the rabble brood; they jostle me and push away my feet, and they cast up against me their ways of destruction [like an advancing army]." 
Job30:13 They break up and clutter my path [embarrassing my plans]; they urge on my calamity, even though they have no helper [and are themselves helpless]." 
Job30:14 As through a wide breach they come in; amid the crash [of falling walls] they roll themselves upon me. 
Job30:15 Terrors are turned upon me; my honor and reputation they chase away like the wind, and my welfare has passed away as a cloud." 
Job30:16 And now my life is poured out within me; the days of affliction have gripped me. 
Job30:17 My bones are pierced [with aching] in the night season, and the pains that gnaw me take no rest." 
Job30:18 By the great force [of my disease] my garment is disguised and disfigured; it binds me about like the collar of my coat. 
Job30:19 [God] has cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes." 
Job30:20 I cry to You, [Lord,] and You do not answer me; I stand up, but You [only] gaze [indifferently] at me." 
Job30:21 You have become harsh and cruel to me; with the might of Your hand You [keep me alive only to] persecute me. 
Job30:22 You lift me up on the wind; You cause me to ride upon it, and You toss me about in the tempest." 
Job30:23 For I know that You will bring me to death and to the house [of meeting] appointed for all the living. 
Job30:24 However, does not one falling in a heap of ruins stretch out his hand? Or in his calamity will he not therefore cry for help?" 
Job30:25 Did not I weep for him who was in trouble? Was not my heart grieved for the poor and needy? 
Job30:26 But when I looked for good, then evil came to me; and when I waited for light, there came darkness." 
Job30:27 My heart is troubled and does not rest; days of affliction come to meet me. 
Job30:28 I go about blackened, but not by the sun; I stand up in the congregation and cry for help." 
Job30:29 I am a brother to jackals [which howl], and a companion to ostriches [which scream dismally]." 
Job30:30 My skin falls from me in blackened flakes, and my bones are burned with heat." 
Job30:31 Therefore my lyre is turned to mourning, and my pipe into the voice of those who weep." 
Job31:1 I DICTATED a covenant (an agreement) to my eyes; how then could I look [lustfully] upon a girl? 
Job31:2 For what portion should I have from God above [if I were lewd], and what heritage from the Almighty on high?" 
Job31:3 Does not calamity [justly] befall the unrighteous, and disaster the workers of iniquity?" 
Job31:4 Does not [God] see my ways and count all my steps? 
Job31:5 If I have walked with falsehood or vanity, or if my foot has hastened to deceit," 
Job31:6 Oh, let me be weighed in a just balance and let Him weigh me, that God may know my integrity!" 
Job31:7 If my step has turned out of [God's] way, and my heart has gone the way my eyes [covetously] invited, and if any spot has stained my hands with guilt," 
Job31:8 Then let me sow and let another eat; yes, let the produce of my field or my offspring be rooted out." 
Job31:9 If my heart has been deceived and I made a fool by a woman, or if I have [covetously] laid wait at my neighbor's door [until his departure]," 
Job31:10 Then let my wife grind [meal, like a bondslave] for another, and let others bow down upon her." 
Job31:11 For [adultery] is a heinous and chief crime, an iniquity [to demand action by] the judges and punishment. [Deut. 22:22; John 8:5.]" 
Job31:12 For [uncontrolled passion] is a fire which consumes to Abaddon (to destruction, ruin, and the place of final torment); [that fire once lighted would rage until all is consumed] and would burn to the root all my [life's] increase." 
Job31:13 If I have despised and rejected the cause of my manservant or my maidservant when they contended or brought a complaint against me," 
Job31:14 What then shall I do when God rises up [to judge]? When He visits [to inquire of me], what shall I answer Him? [Ps. 44:21.]" 
Job31:15 Did not He Who made me in the womb make [my servant]? And did not One fashion us both in the womb? [Prov. 14:31; 22:2; Mal. 2:10.] 
Job31:16 If I have withheld from the poor and needy what they desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to look in vain [for relief]," 
Job31:17 Or have eaten my morsel alone and have not shared it with the fatherless, 
Job31:18 No, but from my youth [the fatherless] grew up with me as a father, and I have been [the widow's] guide from my mother's womb," 
Job31:19 If I have seen anyone perish for want of clothing, or any poor person without covering," 
Job31:20 If his loins have not blessed me [for clothing them], and if he was not warmed with the fleece of my sheep," 
Job31:21 If I have lifted my hand against the fatherless when I saw [that the judges would be favorable and be] my help at the [council] gate," 
Job31:22 Then let my shoulder fall away from my shoulder blade, and my arm be broken from its socket." 
Job31:23 For calamity from God was a terror to me, and because of His majesty I could not endure [to face Him] and could do nothing. [Isa. 13:6; Joel 1:15.]" 
Job31:23 For calamity from God was a terror to me, and because of His majesty I could not endure [to face Him] and could do nothing. [Isa. 13:6; Joel 1:15.]" 
Job31:24 If I have made gold my trust and hope or have said to fine gold, You are my confidence," 
Job31:25 If I rejoiced because my wealth was great and because my [powerful] hand [alone] had gotten much," 
Job31:26 If I beheld [as an object of worship] the sunlight when it shone or the moon walking in its brightness," 
Job31:27 And my heart has been secretly enticed by them or my mouth has kissed my hand [in homage to them]," 
Job31:28 This also would have been [a heinous and principal] iniquity to demand the judges' action and punishment, for I would have denied and been false to the God Who is above. [Deut. 4:19; 17:2-7.]" 
Job31:29 If I rejoiced at the destruction of him who hated me or lifted myself up [in malicious triumph] when evil overtook him, 
Job31:30 No, I have let my mouth sin neither by cursing my enemy nor by praying that he might die," 
Job31:31 [Just ask] if the men of my tent will not say, Who can find one in need who has not been satisfied with food he gave them?," 
Job31:32 The temporary resident has not lodged in the street, but I have opened my door to the wayfaring man," 
Job31:33 If like Adam or like [other] men I have concealed my transgressions, by hiding my iniquity in my bosom" 
Job31:34 Because I feared the great multitude and the contempt of families terrified me so that I kept silence and did not go out of the door, 
Job31:35 Oh, for a hearing! Oh, for an answer from the Almighty! Let my adversary write out His indictment [and put His vague accusations in tangible form] in a book!" 
Job31:36 Surely I would [proudly] bear it on my shoulder and wind the scroll about my head as a diadem. 
Job31:37 I would count out to Him the number of my steps [with every detail of my life], approaching His presence as a prince," 
Job31:38 For if my land has cried out against me and its furrows have complained together with tears [that I have no right to them]," 
Job31:39 If I have eaten its fruits without paying for them or have caused its [rightful] owners to breathe their last," 
Job31:40 Let thistles grow instead of wheat and cockleburs instead of barley. The [controversial] words of Job [with his friends] are ended. 
Job32:1 SO THESE three men ceased to answer Job, because he was [rigidly] righteous (upright and in right standing with God) in his own eyes. [But there was a fifth man there also.]" 
Job32:2 Elihu son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, became indignant. His indignation was kindled against Job because he justified himself rather than God [even made himself out to be better than God]." 
Job32:3 Also against [Job's] three friends was [Elihu's] anger kindled, because they had found no answer [were unable to show his real error], and yet they had declared him to be in the wrong [and responsible for his own afflictions]." 
Job32:4 Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job because the others were older than he. 
Job32:5 But when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouths of these three men, he became angry." 
Job32:6 Then Elihu son of Barachel the Buzite said, I am young, and you are aged; for that reason I was timid and restrained and dared not declare my opinion to you." 
Job32:7 I said, Age should speak, and a multitude of years should teach wisdom [so let it be heard]." 
Job32:8 But there is [a vital force] a spirit [of intelligence] in man, and the breath of the Almighty gives men understanding. [Prov. 2:6.]" 
Job32:9 It is not the great [necessarily] who are wise, nor [always] the aged who understand justice." 
Job32:10 So I say, Listen to me; I also will give you my opinion [about Job's situation] and my knowledge." 
Job32:11 You see, I waited for your words, I listened to your wise reasons, while you searched out what to say." 
Job32:12 Yes, I paid attention to what you said, and behold, not one of you convinced Job or made [satisfactory] replies to his words [you could not refute him]." 
Job32:13 Beware lest you say, We have found wisdom; God thrusts [Job] down [justly], not man [God alone is dealing with him]." 
Job32:14 Now [Job] has not directed his words against me [therefore I have no cause for irritation], neither will I answer him with speeches like yours. [I speak for truth, not for revenge.]" 
Job32:15 [Job's friends] are amazed and embarrassed, they answer no more; they have not a thing to say [reports Elihu]." 
Job32:16 And shall I wait, because they say nothing but stand still and answer no more?" 
Job32:17 I also will answer my [God-assigned] part; I also will declare my opinion and my knowledge. 
Job32:18 For I am full of words; the spirit within me constrains me. 
Job32:19 My breast is as wine that has no vent; like new wineskins, it is ready to burst." 
Job32:20 I must speak, that I may get relief and be refreshed; I will open my lips and answer." 
Job32:21 I will not [I warn you] be influenced by respect for any man's person and show partiality, neither will I flatter any man." 
Job32:22 For I know not how to flatter, [wasting my time in mere formalities, for then] my Maker would soon take me away." 
Job33:1 BE THAT as it may, Job, I beg of you to hear what I have to say and give heed to all my words." 
Job33:2 Behold, here I am with open mouth; here is my tongue talking." 
Job33:3 My words shall express the uprightness of my heart, and my lips shall speak what they know with utter sincerity." 
Job33:4 [It is] the Spirit of God that made me [which has stirred me up], and the breath of the Almighty that gives me life [which inspires me]." 
Job33:5 Answer me now, if you can; set your words in order before me; take your stand." 
Job33:6 Behold, I am toward God and before Him even as you are; I also am formed out of the clay [though I speak with abnormal wisdom because of a divine illumination]." 
Job33:7 See my terror [for I am only a fellow mortal, not God]; I shall not make you afraid, neither shall my pressure be heavy upon you." 
Job33:8 Surely you have spoken in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of your words, saying," 
Job33:9 I am clean, without transgression; I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me." 
Job33:10 But behold, God finds occasions against me and causes of alienation and indifference; He counts me as His enemy." 
Job33:11 He puts my feet in the stocks; He [untrustingly] watches all my paths [you say]. 
Job33:12 I reply to you, Behold, in this you are not just; God is superior to man." 
Job33:13 Why do you contend against Him? For He does not give account of any of His actions. [Sufficient for us it should be to know that it is He Who does them.] 
Job33:14 For God [does reveal His will; He] speaks not only once, but more than once, even though men do not regard it [including you, Job]." 
Job33:15 [One may hear God's voice] in a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men while slumbering upon the bed," 
Job33:16 Then He opens the ears of men and seals their instruction [terrifying them with warnings]," 
Job33:17 That He may withdraw man from his purpose and cut off pride from him [disgusting him with his own disappointing self-sufficiency]. 
Job33:18 He holds him back from the pit [of destruction], and his life from perishing by the sword [of God's destructive judgments]." 
Job33:19 [God's voice may be heard by man when] he is chastened with pain upon his bed and with continual strife in his bones or while all his bones are firmly set," 
Job33:20 So that his desire makes him loathe food, and even dainty dishes [nauseate him]." 
Job33:21 His flesh is so wasted away that it cannot be seen, and his bones that were not seen stick out." 
Job33:22 Yes, his soul draws near to corruption, and his life to the inflicters of death (the destroyers)." 
Job33:23 [God's voice may be heard] if there is for the hearer a messenger or an angel, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to show to man what is right for him [how to be upright and in right standing with God]," 
Job33:24 Then [God] is gracious to him and says, Deliver him from going down into the pit [of destruction]; I have found a ransom (a price of redemption, an atonement)!" 
Job33:25 [Then the man's] flesh shall be restored; it becomes fresher and more tender than a child's; he returns to the days of his youth. 
Job33:26 He prays to God, and He is favorable to him, so that he sees His face with joy; for [God] restores to him his righteousness (his uprightness and right standing with God,with its joys)." 
Job33:27 He looks upon other men or sings out to them, I have sinned and perverted that which was right, and it did not profit me, or He did not requite me [according to my iniquity]!" 
Job33:28 [God] has redeemed my life from going down to the pit [of destruction], and my life shall see the light!" 
Job33:29 [Elihu comments] Behold, God does all these things twice, yes, three times, with a man," 
Job33:30 To bring back his life from the pit [of destruction], that he may be enlightened with the light of the living." 
Job33:31 Give heed, O Job, listen to me; hold your peace, and I will speak." 
Job33:32 If you have anything to say, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify you." 
Job33:33 If [you do] not [have anything to say], listen to me; hold your peace, and I will teach you wisdom." 
Job34:1 ELIHU ANSWERED (continued his discourse) and said," 
Job34:2 Hear my words, you wise men, and give ear to me, you who have [so much] knowledge." 
Job34:3 For the ear tries words as the palate tastes food. 
Job34:4 Let us choose for ourselves that which is right; let us know among ourselves what is good. 
Job34:5 For Job has said, I am [innocent and uncompromisingly] righteous, but God has taken away my right; [Job 33:9.]" 
Job34:6 Would I lie against my right? Yet, notwithstanding my right, I am counted a liar. My wound is incurable, though I am without transgression." 
Job34:7 What man is like Job, who drinks up scoffing and scorning like water," 
Job34:8 Who goes in company with the workers of iniquity and walks with wicked men? 
Job34:9 For he has said, It profits a man nothing that he should delight himself with God and consent to Him." 
Job34:10 Therefore hear me, you men of understanding. Far be it from God that He should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that He should commit iniquity." 
Job34:11 For according to the deeds of a man God will [exactly] proportion his pay, and He will cause every man to find [recompense] according to his ways." 
Job34:12 Truly God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert justice." 
Job34:13 Who put [God] in charge over the earth? Or who laid on Him the whole world? 
Job34:14 If [God] should set His heart upon him [man] and withdraw His [life-giving] spirit and His breath [from man] to Himself," 
Job34:15 All flesh would perish together, and man would turn again to dust. [Ps. 104:29; Eccl. 12:7.]" 
Job34:16 If now you have understanding, hear this; listen to my words." 
Job34:17 Is it possible that an enemy of right should govern? And will you condemn Him Who is just and mighty? 
Job34:18 [God] Who says to a king, You are worthless and vile, or to princes and nobles, You are ungodly and evil?" 
Job34:19 [God] is not partial to princes, nor does He regard the rich more than the poor, for they all are the work of His hands." 
Job34:20 In a moment they die; even at midnight the people are shaken and pass away, and the mighty are taken away by no [human] hand." 
Job34:21 For [God's] eyes are upon the ways of a man, and He sees all his steps. [Ps. 34:15; Prov. 5:21; Jer. 16:17.]" 
Job34:22 There is no darkness nor thick gloom where the evildoers may hide themselves. 
Job34:23 [God] sets before man no appointed time, that he should appear before [Him] in judgment." 
Job34:24 He breaks in pieces mighty men without inquiry [before a jury] and in ways past finding out and sets others in their stead. [Dan. 2:21.] 
Job34:25 Therefore He takes knowledge of their works, and He overturns them in the night, so that they are crushed and destroyed." 
Job34:26 God strikes them down as wicked men in the open sight of beholders," 
Job34:27 Because they turned aside from Him and would not consider or show regard for any of His ways, [I Sam. 15:11.]" 
Job34:28 So that they caused the cry of the poor to come to Him, and He heard the cry of the afflicted. [Exod. 22:23; James 5:4.]" 
Job34:29 When He gives quietness (peace and security from oppression), who then can condemn? When He hides His face [withdrawing His favor and help], who then can behold Him [and make Him gracious], whether it be a nation or a man by himself?," 
Job34:30 That the godless man may not reign, that there be no one to ensnare the people." 
Job34:31 For has anyone said to God, I have borne my chastisement; I will not offend any more;" 
Job34:32 Teach me what I do not see [in regard to how I have sinned]; if I have done iniquity, I will do it no more?" 
Job34:33 Should [God's] recompense [for your sins] be as you will it, when you refuse to accept it? For you must do the choosing, and not I; therefore say what is your truthful conclusion." 
Job34:34 Men of understanding will tell me, indeed, every wise man who hears me [will agree]," 
Job34:35 That Job speaks without knowledge, and his words are without wisdom and insight." 
Job34:36 [Would that Job's afflictions be continued and] he be tried to the end because of his answering like wicked men! 
Job34:37 For he adds rebellion [in his unsubmissive, defiant attitude toward God] to his unacknowledged sin; he claps his hands [in open mockery and contempt of God] among us, and he multiplies his words of accusation against God." 
Job35:1 ELIHU SPOKE further [to Job] and said," 
Job35:2 Do you think this is your right, or are you saying, My righteousness is more than God's," 
Job35:3 That you ask, What advantage have you? How am I profited more than if I had sinned?" 
Job35:4 I will answer you and your companions with you. 
Job35:5 Look to the heavens and see; and behold the skies which are higher than you. 
Job35:6 If you have sinned, how does that affect God? And if your transgressions are multiplied, what have you done to Him?" 
Job35:7 If you are righteous, what do you [by that] give God? Or what does He receive from your hand?" 
Job35:8 Your wickedness touches and affects a man such as you are, and your righteousness is for yourself, one of the human race [but it cannot touch God, Who is above such influence]." 
Job35:9 Because of the multitudes of oppressions the people cry out; they cry for help because of the violence of the mighty. 
Job35:10 But no one says, Where is God my Maker, Who gives songs of rejoicing in the night, [Acts 16:25.]" 
Job35:11 Who teaches us more than the beasts of the earth and makes us wiser than the birds of the heavens? 
Job35:12 [The people] cry out because of the pride of evil men, but He does not answer." 
Job35:13 Surely God will refuse to answer [the cry which is] vanity (vain and empty,instead of abiding trust); neither will the Almighty regard it, 
Job35:14 How much less when [missing His righteous judgment on earth] you say that you do not see Him, that your cause is before Him, and you are waiting for Him!" 
Job35:15 But now because God has not [speedily] punished in His anger and seems to be unaware of the wrong and oppression [of which a person is guilty]," 
Job35:16 Job uselessly opens his mouth and multiplies words without knowledge [drawing the worthless conclusion that the righteous have no more advantage than the wicked]. 
Job36:1 ELIHU PROCEEDED and said," 
Job36:2 Bear with me and wait a little longer, and I will show you, for I have something still to say on God's behalf." 
Job36:3 I will bring my knowledge from afar and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. 
Job36:4 For truly my words shall not be false; He Who is perfect in knowledge is with you. 
Job36:5 Behold! God is mighty, and yet despises no one nor regards anything as trivial; He is mighty in power of understanding and heart." 
Job36:6 He does not prolong the life of the wicked, but gives the needy and afflicted their right." 
Job36:7 He withdraws not His eyes from the righteous (the upright in right standing with God); but He sets them forever with kings upon the throne, and they are exalted." 
Job36:8 And if they are bound in fetters [of adversity] and held by cords of affliction, [Ps. 107:10, 11.]" 
Job36:9 Then He shows to them [the true character of] their deeds and their transgressions, that they have acted arrogantly [with presumption and self-sufficiency]." 
Job36:10 He also opens their ears to instruction and discipline, and commands that they return from iniquity." 
Job36:11 If they obey and serve Him, they shall spend their days in prosperity and their years in pleasantness and joy." 
Job36:12 But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword [of God's destructive judgments], and they shall die in ignorance of true knowledge." 
Job36:13 But the godless and profane in heart heap up anger [at the divine discipline]; they do not cry to Him when He binds them [with cords of affliction]. [Rom. 2:5.] 
Job36:14 They die in youth, and their life perishes among the unclean (those who are sodomites)." 
Job36:15 He delivers the afflicted in their affliction and opens their ears [to His voice] in adversity. 
Job36:16 Indeed, God would have allured you out of the mouth of distress into a broad place where there is no situation of perplexity or privation; and that which would be set on your table would be full of fatness." 
Job36:17 But if you [Job] are filled with the judgment of the wicked, judgment and justice will keep hold on you." 
Job36:18 For let not wrath entice you into scorning chastisements; and let not the greatness of the ransom [the suffering, if rightly endured] turn you aside." 
Job36:19 Will your cry be sufficient to keep you from distress, or will all the force of your strength do it?" 
Job36:20 Desire not the night, when peoples are cut off from their places;" 
Job36:21 Take heed, turn not to iniquity, for this [the iniquity of complaining against God] you have chosen rather than [submission in] affliction." 
Job36:22 Behold, God exalts and does loftily in His power; who is a ruler or a teacher like Him?" 
Job36:23 Who has appointed God His way? Or who can say, You have done unrighteousness?" 
Job36:24 Remember that [by submission] you magnify God's work, of which men have sung." 
Job36:25 All men have looked upon God's work; man may behold it afar off. 
Job36:26 Behold, God is great, and we know Him not! The number of His years is unsearchable. [I Cor. 13:12.]" 
Job36:27 For He draws up the drops of water, which distil as rain from His vapor," 
Job36:28 Which the skies pour down and drop abundantly upon [the multitudes of] mankind. 
Job36:29 Not only that, but can anyone understand the spreadings of the clouds or the thunderings of His pavilion? [Ps. 18:11; Isa. 40:22.]" 
Job36:30 Behold, He spreads His lightning against the dark clouds and covers the roots of the sea." 
Job36:31 For by [His clouds] God executes judgment upon the peoples; He gives food in abundance. 
Job36:32 He covers His hands with the lightning and commands it to strike the mark. 
Job36:33 His thunderings speak [awesomely] concerning Him; the cattle are told of His coming storm. 
Job37:1 INDEED, [at His thunderings] my heart also trembles and leaps out of its place." 
Job37:2 Hear, oh, hear the roar of His voice and the sound of rumbling that goes out of His mouth!" 
Job37:3 Under the whole heaven He lets it loose, and His lightning to the ends of the earth." 
Job37:4 After it His voice roars; He thunders with the voice of His majesty, and He restrains not [His lightnings against His adversaries] when His voice is heard." 
Job37:5 God thunders marvelously with His voice; He does great things which we cannot comprehend. 
Job37:6 For He says to the snow, Fall on the earth; likewise He speaks to the showers and to the downpour of His mighty rains." 
Job37:7 God seals up (stops, brings to a standstill by severe weather) the hand of every man [and now under His seal their hands are forced to inactivity], that all men whom He has made may know His doings (His sovereign power and their subjection to it)." 
Job37:8 Then the beasts go into dens and remain in their lairs. 
Job37:9 Out of its chamber comes the whirlwind, and cold from the scattering winds." 
Job37:10 By the breath of God ice is given, and the breadth of the waters is frozen over. [Ps. 147:17, 18.]" 
Job37:11 He loads the thick cloud with moisture; He scatters the cloud of His lightning. 
Job37:12 And it is turned round about by His guidance, that they may do whatever He commands them upon the face of the habitable earth." 
Job37:13 Whether it be for correction or for His earth [generally] or for His mercy and loving-kindness, He causes it to come. [Exod. 9:18, 23; I Sam. 12:18, 19.]" 
Job37:14 Hear this, O Job; stand still and consider the wondrous works of God." 
Job37:15 Do you know how God lays His command upon them and causes the lightning of His [storm] cloud to shine? 
Job37:16 Do you know how the clouds are balanced [and poised in the heavens], the wonderful works of Him Who is perfect in knowledge?" 
Job37:17 [Or] why your garments are hot when He quiets the earth [in sultry summer] with the [oppressive] south wind? 
Job37:18 Can you along with Him spread out the sky, [which is] strong as a molten mirror?" 
Job37:19 Tell us [Job] with what words of man we may address such a Being; we cannot state our case because we are in the dark [in the presence of the unsearchable God]. 
Job37:20 So shall it be told Him that I wish to speak? If a man speaks, shall he be swallowed up?" 
Job37:21 And now men cannot look upon the light when it is bright in the skies, when the wind has passed and cleared them." 
Job37:22 Golden brightness and splendor come out of the north; [if men can scarcely look upon it, how much less upon the] terrible splendor and majesty God has upon Himself!" 
Job37:23 Touching the Almighty, we cannot find Him out; He is excellent in power; and to justice and plenteous righteousness He does no violence [He will disregard no right]. [I Tim. 6:16.]" 
Job37:24 Men therefore [reverently] fear Him; He regards and respects not any who are wise in heart [in their own understanding and conceit]. [Matt. 10:28.] 
Job38:1 THEN THE Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said," 
Job38:2 Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? [Job 35:16.] 
Job38:3 Gird up now your loins like a man, and I will demand of you, and you declare to Me." 
Job38:4 Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Declare to Me, if you have and know understanding." 
Job38:5 Who determined the measures of the earth, if you know? Or who stretched the measuring line upon it?" 
Job38:6 Upon what were the foundations of it fastened, or who laid its cornerstone," 
Job38:7 When the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy? 
Job38:8 Or who shut up the sea with doors when it broke forth and issued out of the womb?, 
Job38:9 When I made the clouds the garment of it, and thick darkness a swaddling band for it," 
Job38:10 And marked for it My appointed boundary and set bars and doors, [Jer. 5:22.]" 
Job38:11 And said, Thus far shall you come and no farther; and here shall your proud waves be stayed? [Ps. 89:9; 93:4.]" 
Job38:12 Have you commanded the morning since your days began and caused the dawn to know its place," 
Job38:13 So that [light] may get hold of the corners of the earth and shake the wickedness [of night] out of it? 
Job38:14 It is changed like clay into which a seal is pressed; and things stand out like a many-colored garment. 
Job38:15 From the wicked their light is withheld, and their uplifted arm is broken." 
Job38:16 Have you explored the springs of the sea? Or have you walked in the recesses of the deep? 
Job38:17 Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Or have you seen the doors of deep darkness? 
Job38:18 Have you comprehended the breadth of the earth? Tell Me, if you know it all." 
Job38:19 Where is the way where light dwells? And as for darkness, where is its abode," 
Job38:20 That you may conduct it to its home, and may know the paths to its house?" 
Job38:21 You must know, since you were born then! Or because you are so extremely old!" 
Job38:22 Have you entered the treasuries of the snow, or have you seen the treasuries of the hail," 
Job38:23 Which I have reserved for the time of trouble, for the day of battle and war? [Exod. 9:18; Josh. 10:11; Isa. 30:30; Rev. 16:21.]" 
Job38:24 By what way is the light distributed, or the east wind spread over the earth?" 
Job38:25 Who has prepared a channel for the torrents of rain, or a path for the thunderbolt," 
Job38:26 To cause it to rain on the uninhabited land [and] on the desert where no man lives," 
Job38:27 To satisfy the waste and desolate ground and to cause the tender grass to spring forth? 
Job38:28 Has the rain a father? Or who has begotten the drops of dew? 
Job38:29 Out of whose womb came the ice? And the hoary frost of heaven, who has given it birth?" 
Job38:30 The waters are congealed like stone, and the face of the deep is frozen." 
Job38:31 Can you bind the chains of [the cluster of stars called] Pleiades, or loose the cords of [the constellation] Orion?" 
Job38:32 Can you lead forth the signs of the zodiac in their season? Or can you guide [the stars of] the Bear with her young? 
Job38:33 Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you establish their rule upon the earth? 
Job38:34 Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, so that an abundance of waters may cover you?" 
Job38:35 Can you send lightnings, that they may go and say to you, Here we are?" 
Job38:36 Who has put wisdom in the inward parts [or in the dark clouds]? Or who has given understanding to the mind [or to the meteor]? 
Job38:37 Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can pour out the [water] bottles of the heavens 
Job38:38 When [heat has caused] the dust to run into a mass and the clods to cleave fast together? 
Job38:39 Can you [Job] hunt the prey for the lion? Or satisfy the appetite of the young lions 
Job38:40 When they couch in their dens or lie in wait in their hiding place? 
Job38:41 Who provides for the raven its prey when its young ones cry to God and wander about for lack of food? 
Job39:1 DO YOU know the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth [their young]? [Or] do you observe when the hinds are giving birth? [Do you attend to all this, Job?]" 
Job39:2 Can you number the months that they carry their offspring? Or do you know the time when they are delivered," 
Job39:3 When they bow themselves, bring forth their young ones, [and] cast out their pains?" 
Job39:4 Their young ones become strong, they grow up in the open field; they go forth and return not to them." 
Job39:5 Who has sent out the wild donkey, giving him his freedom? Or who has loosed the bands of the swift donkey [by which his tame brother is bound,he, the shy, the swift-footed, and the untamable]," 
Job39:6 Whose home I have made the wilderness, and the salt land his dwelling place?" 
Job39:7 He scorns the tumult of the city and hears not the shoutings of the taskmaster. 
Job39:8 The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searches after every green thing." 
Job39:9 Will the wild ox be willing to serve you, or remain beside your manger?" 
Job39:10 Can you bind the wild ox with a harness to the plow in the furrow? Or will he harrow the furrows for you? 
Job39:11 Will you trust him because his strength is great, or to him will you leave your labor?" 
Job39:12 Will you depend upon him to bring home your seed and gather the grain of your threshing floor? [Who, Job, was the author of this strange variance in the disposition of animals so alike in appearance? Was it you?]" 
Job39:13 The wings of the ostrich wave proudly, [but] are they the pinions and plumage of love?" 
Job39:14 The ostrich leaves her eggs on the ground and warms them in the dust," 
Job39:15 Forgetting that a foot may crush them or that the wild beast may trample them. 
Job39:16 She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not hers; her labor is in vain because she has no sense of danger [for her unborn brood]," 
Job39:17 For God has deprived her of wisdom, neither has He imparted to her understanding." 
Job39:18 Yet when she lifts herself up in flight, [so swift is she that] she can laugh to scorn the horse and his rider." 
Job39:19 Have you given the horse his might? Have you clothed his neck with quivering and a shaking mane? 
Job39:20 Was it you [Job] who made him to leap like a locust? The majesty of his [snorting] nostrils is terrible. 
Job39:21 He paws in the valley and exults in his strength; he goes out to meet the weapons [of armed men]. 
Job39:22 He mocks at fear and is not dismayed or terrified; neither does he turn back [in battle] from the sword. 
Job39:23 The quiver rattles upon him, as do the glittering spear and the lance [of his rider]." 
Job39:24 [He seems in running to] devour the ground with fierceness and rage; neither can he stand still at the sound of the [war] trumpet. 
Job39:25 As often as the trumpet sounds he says, Ha, ha! And he smells the battle from afar, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting." 
Job39:26 Is it by your wisdom [Job] that the hawk soars and stretches her wings toward the south [as winter approaches]? 
Job39:27 Does the eagle mount up at your command and make his nest on [a] high [inaccessible place]? 
Job39:28 On the cliff he dwells and remains securely, upon the point of the rock and the stronghold." 
Job39:29 From there he spies out the prey; and his eyes see it afar off. 
Job39:30 His young ones suck up blood, and where the slain are, there is he." 
Job40:1 MOREOVER, THE Lord said to Job," 
Job40:2 Shall he who would find fault with the Almighty contend with Him? He who disputes with God, let him answer it." 
Job40:3 Then Job replied to the Lord: 
Job40:4 Behold, I am of small account and vile! What shall I answer You? I lay my hand upon my mouth. [Ezra 9:6; Ps. 51:4.]" 
Job40:4 Behold, I am of small account and vile! What shall I answer You? I lay my hand upon my mouth. [Ezra 9:6; Ps. 51:4.]" 
Job40:5 I have spoken once, but I will not reply again,indeed, twice [have I answered], but I will proceed no further." 
Job40:6 Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind, saying," 
Job40:7 Gird up your loins now like a man; I will demand of you, and you answer Me." 
Job40:8 Will you also annul (set aside and render void) My judgment? Will you condemn Me [your God], that you may [appear] righteous and justified?" 
Job40:9 Have you an arm like God? Or can you thunder with a voice like His? 
Job40:10 [Since you question the manner of the Almighty's rule] deck yourself now with the excellency and dignity [of the Supreme Ruler, and yourself undertake the government of the world if you are so wise], and array yourself with honor and majesty." 
Job40:11 Pour forth the overflowings of your anger, and look on everyone who is proud and abase him;" 
Job40:12 Look on everyone who is proud and bring him low, and tread down the wicked where they stand [if you are so able, Job]." 
Job40:13 [Bury and] hide them all in the dust together; [and] shut them up [in the prison house of death]. 
Job40:14 [If you can do all this, Job, proving yourself of divine might] then will I [God] praise you also [and acknowledge that] your own right hand can save you." 
Job40:15 Behold now the behemoth (the hippopotamus), which I created as I did you; he eats grass like an ox." 
Job40:16 See now, his strength is in his loins, and his power is in the sinews of his belly." 
Job40:17 He moves his tail like a cedar tree; the tendons of his thighs are twisted together [like a rope]. 
Job40:18 His bones are like tubes of bronze; his limbs [or ribs] are like bars of iron. 
Job40:19 [The hippopotamus] is the first [in magnitude and power] of the works of God [in animal life]; [only] He Who made him provides him with his [swordlike tusks, or only God Who made him can bring near His sword to master him]." 
Job40:20 Surely the mountains bring him food, where all the wild animals play." 
Job40:21 He lies under the lotus trees, in the covert of the reeds in the marsh." 
Job40:22 The lotus trees cover him with their shade; the willows of the brook compass him about. 
Job40:23 Behold, if a river is violent and overflows, he does not tremble; he is confident, though the Jordan [River] swells and rushes against his mouth." 
Job40:24 Can any take him when he is on the watch, or pierce through his nose with a snare?" 
Job41:1 CAN YOU draw out the leviathan (the crocodile) with a fishhook? Or press down his tongue with a cord? 
Job41:2 Can you put a rope into his nose? Or pierce his jaw through with a hook or a spike? 
Job41:3 Will he make many supplications to you [begging to be spared]? Will he speak soft words to you [to coax you to treat him kindly]? 
Job41:4 Will he make a covenant with you to take him for your servant forever? 
Job41:5 Will you play with [the crocodile] as with a bird? Or will you put him on a leash for your maidens? 
Job41:6 Will traders bargain over him? Will they divide him up among the merchants? 
Job41:7 Can you fill his skin with harpoons? Or his head with fishing spears? 
Job41:8 Lay your hand upon him! Remember your battle with him; you will not do [such an ill-advised thing] again! 
Job41:9 Behold, the hope of [his assailant] is disappointed; one is cast down even at the sight of him!" 
Job41:10 No one is so fierce [and foolhardy] that he dares to stir up [the crocodile]; who then is he who can stand before Me [the beast's Creator, or dares to contend with Me]?" 
Job41:11 Who has first given to Me, that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heavens is Mine. [Therefore, who can have a claim against God, God Who made the unmastered crocodile?] [Rom. 11:35.]" 
Job41:12 I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, nor his mighty strength, nor his goodly frame." 
Job41:13 Who can strip off [the crocodile's] outer garment? [Who can penetrate his double coat of mail?] Who shall come within his jaws? 
Job41:14 Who can open the doors of his [lipless] mouth? His [extended jaws and bare] teeth are terrible round about. 
Job41:15 His scales are [the crocodile's] pride, [for his back is made of rows of shields] shut up together [as with] a tight seal;" 
Job41:16 One is so near to another that no air can come between them. 
Job41:17 They are joined one to another; they stick together so that they cannot be separated. 
Job41:18 His sneezings flash forth light, and his eyes are like the [reddish] eyelids of the dawn." 
Job41:19 Out of his mouth go burning torches, [and] sparks of fire leap out." 
Job41:20 Out of his nostrils goes forth smoke, as out of a seething pot over a fire of rushes." 
Job41:21 His breath kindles coals, and a flame goes forth from his mouth." 
Job41:22 In [the crocodile's] neck abides strength, and terror dances before him." 
Job41:23 The folds of his flesh cleave together; they are firm upon him, and they cannot shake [when he moves]." 
Job41:24 His heart is as firm as a stone, indeed, as solid as a nether millstone." 
Job41:25 When [the crocodile] raises himself up, the mighty are afraid; because of terror and the crashing they are beside themselves." 
Job41:26 Even if one strikes at him with the sword, it cannot get any hold, nor does the spear, the dart, or the javelin." 
Job41:27 He counts iron as straw and bronze as rotten wood. 
Job41:28 The arrow cannot make [the crocodile] flee; slingstones are treated by him as stubble. 
Job41:29 Clubs [also] are counted as stubble; he laughs at the rushing and the rattling of the javelin. 
Job41:30 His underparts are like sharp pieces of broken pottery; he spreads [grooves like] a threshing sledge upon the mire. 
Job41:31 He makes the deep boil like a pot; he makes the sea like a [foaming] pot of ointment. 
Job41:32 [His swift darting] makes a shining track behind him; one would think the deep to be hoary [with foam]. 
Job41:33 Upon earth there is not [the crocodile's] equal, a creature made without fear and he behaves fearlessly." 
Job41:34 He looks all mighty [beasts of prey] in the face [without terror]; he is monarch over all the sons of pride. [And now, Job, who are you who dares not arouse the unmastered crocodile, yet who dares resist Me, the beast's Creator, to My face? Everything under the heavens is Mine; therefore, who can have a claim against God?]" 
Job42:1 THEN JOB said to the Lord," 
Job42:2 I know that You can do all things, and that no thought or purpose of Yours can be restrained or thwarted." 
Job42:3 [You said to me] Who is this that darkens and obscures counsel [by words] without knowledge? Therefore [I now see] I have [rashly] uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. [Job 38:2.]" 
Job42:4 [I had virtually said to You what You have said to me:] Hear, I beseech You, and I will speak; I will demand of You, and You declare to me." 
Job42:5 I had heard of You [only] by the hearing of the ear, but now my [spiritual] eye sees You." 
Job42:6 Therefore I loathe [my words] and abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. 
Job42:7 After the Lord had spoken the previous words to Job, the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against you and against your two friends, for you have not spoken of Me the thing that is right, as My servant Job has." 
Job42:8 Now therefore take seven bullocks and seven rams and go to My servant Job and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and My servant Job shall pray for you, for I will accept [his prayer] that I deal not with you after your folly, in that you have not spoken of Me the thing that is right, as My servant Job has." 
Job42:9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the Lord commanded them; and the Lord accepted [Job's prayer]. 
Job42:10 And the Lord turned the captivity of Job and restored his fortunes, when he prayed for his friends; also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. [Deut. 30:1-3; Ps. 126:1, 2.]" 
Job42:11 Then there came to him all his brothers and sisters and all who had known him before, and they ate bread with him in his house; and they sympathized with him and comforted him over all the [distressing] calamities that the Lord had brought upon him. Every man also gave him a piece of money, and every man an earring of gold." 
Job42:12 And the Lord blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning; for he had 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 1,000 yoke of oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys. [Job 1:3.]" 
Job42:13 He had also seven sons and three daughters. 
Job42:14 And he called the name of the first Jemimah, and the name of the second Keziah, and the name of the third Keren-happuch." 
Job42:15 And in all the land there were no women so fair as the daughters of Job, and their father gave them inheritance among their brothers." 
Job42:16 After this, Job lived 140 years, and saw his sons and his sons' sons, even to four generations." 
Job42:17 So Job died, an old man and full of days. [James 5:11.]" 
Psalms1:1 BLESSED (HAPPY, fortunate, prosperous, and enviable) is the man who walks and lives not in the counsel of the ungodly [following their advice, their plans and purposes], nor stands [submissive and inactive] in the path where sinners walk, nor sits down [to relax and rest] where the scornful [and the mockers] gather." 
Psalms1:2 But his delight and desire are in the law of the Lord, and on His law (the precepts, the instructions, the teachings of God) he habitually meditates (ponders and studies) by day and by night. [Rom. 13:8-10; Gal. 3:1-29; II Tim. 3:16.]" 
Psalms1:3 And he shall be like a tree firmly planted [and tended] by the streams of water, ready to bring forth its fruit in its season; its leaf also shall not fade or wither; and everything he does shall prosper [and come to maturity]. [Jer. 17:7, 8.]" 
Psalms1:4 Not so the wicked [those disobedient and living without God are not so]. But they are like the chaff [worthless, dead, without substance] which the wind drives away." 
Psalms1:5 Therefore the wicked [those disobedient and living without God] shall not stand [justified] in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous [those who are upright and in right standing with God]." 
Psalms1:6 For the Lord knows and is fully acquainted with the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly [those living outside God's will] shall perish (end in ruin and come to nought)." 
Psalms2:1 WHY DO the nations assemble with commotion [uproar and confusion of voices], and why do the people imagine (meditate upon and devise) an empty scheme?" 
Psalms2:2 The kings of the earth take their places; the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and His Anointed One (the Messiah, the Christ). They say, [Acts 4:25-27.]" 
Psalms2:3 Let us break Their bands [of restraint] asunder and cast Their cords [of control] from us. 
Psalms2:4 He Who sits in the heavens laughs; the Lord has them in derision [and in supreme contempt He mocks them]. 
Psalms2:5 He speaks to them in His deep anger and troubles (terrifies and confounds) them in His displeasure and fury, saying," 
Psalms2:6 Yet have I anointed (installed and placed) My King [firmly] on My holy hill of Zion. 
Psalms2:7 I will declare the decree of the Lord: He said to Me, You are My Son; this day [I declare] I have begotten You. [Heb. 1:5; 3:5, 6; II Pet. 1:17, 18.]" 
Psalms2:8 Ask of Me, and I will give You the nations as Your inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth as Your possession." 
Psalms2:9 You shall break them with a rod of iron; You shall dash them in pieces like potters' ware. [Rev. 12:5; 19:15.] 
Psalms2:10 Now therefore, O you kings, act wisely; be instructed and warned, O you rulers of the earth." 
Psalms2:11 Serve the Lord with reverent awe and worshipful fear; rejoice and be in high spirits with trembling [lest you displease Him]. 
Psalms2:12 Kiss the Son [pay homage to Him in purity], lest He be angry and you perish in the way, for soon shall His wrath be kindled. O blessed (happy, fortunate, and to be envied) are all those who seek refuge and put their trust in Him!" 
Psalms3:1 A Psalm of David. When he fled from Absalom his son. LORD, HOW they are increased who trouble me! Many are they who rise up against me." 
Psalms3:2 Many are saying of me, There is no help for him in God. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms3:3 But You, O Lord, are a shield for me, my glory, and the lifter of my head." 
Psalms3:4 With my voice I cry to the Lord, and He hears and answers me out of His holy hill. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms3:5 I lay down and slept; I wakened again, for the Lord sustains me." 
Psalms3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me round about. 
Psalms3:7 Arise, O Lord; save me, O my God! For You have struck all my enemies on the cheek; You have broken the teeth of the ungodly." 
Psalms3:8 Salvation belongs to the Lord; May Your blessing be upon Your people. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms4:1 To the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments. A Psalm of David. ANSWER ME when I call, O God of my righteousness (uprightness, justice, and right standing with You)! You have freed me when I was hemmed in and enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me and hear my prayer." 
Psalms4:2 O you sons of men, how long will you turn my honor and glory into shame? How long will you love vanity and futility and seek after lies? Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms4:3 But know that the Lord has set apart for Himself [and given distinction to] him who is godly [the man of loving-kindness]. The Lord listens and heeds when I call to Him. 
Psalms4:4 Be angry [or stand in awe] and sin not; commune with your own hearts upon your beds and be silent (sorry for the things you say in your hearts). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [Eph. 4:26.]" 
Psalms4:5 Offer just and right sacrifices; trust (lean on and be confident) in the Lord. 
Psalms4:6 Many say, Oh, that we might see some good! Lift up the light of Your countenance upon us, O Lord." 
Psalms4:7 You have put more joy and rejoicing in my heart than [they know] when their wheat and new wine have yielded abundantly. 
Psalms4:8 In peace I will both lie down and sleep, for You, Lord, alone make me dwell in safety and confident trust." 
Psalms5:1 To the Chief Musician; on wind instruments. A Psalm of David. LISTEN TO my words, O Lord, give heed to my sighing and groaning." 
Psalms5:2 Hear the sound of my cry, my King and my God, for to You do I pray." 
Psalms5:3 In the morning You hear my voice, O Lord; in the morning I prepare [a prayer, a sacrifice] for You and watch and wait [for You to speak to my heart]." 
Psalms5:4 For You are not a God Who takes pleasure in wickedness; neither will the evil [man] so much as dwell [temporarily] with You. 
Psalms5:5 Boasters can have no standing in Your sight; You abhor all evildoers. 
Psalms5:6 You will destroy those who speak lies; the Lord abhors [and rejects] the bloodthirsty and deceitful man. 
Psalms5:7 But as for me, I will enter Your house through the abundance of Your steadfast love and mercy; I will worship toward and at Your holy temple in reverent fear and awe of You." 
Psalms5:8 Lead me, O Lord, in Your righteousness because of my enemies; make Your way level (straight and right) before my face." 
Psalms5:9 For there is nothing trustworthy or steadfast or truthful in their talk; their heart is destruction [or a destructive chasm, a yawning gulf]; their throat is an open sepulcher; they flatter and make smooth with their tongue. [Rom. 3:13.]" 
Psalms5:10 Hold them guilty, O God; let them fall by their own designs and counsels; cast them out because of the multitude of their transgressions, for they have rebelled against You." 
Psalms5:11 But let all those who take refuge and put their trust in You rejoice; let them ever sing and shout for joy, because You make a covering over them and defend them; let those also who love Your name be joyful in You and be in high spirits." 
Psalms5:12 For You, Lord, will bless the [uncompromisingly] righteous [him who is upright and in right standing with You]; as with a shield You will surround him with goodwill (pleasure and favor)." 
Psalms6:1 To the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments, set [possibly] an octave below. A Psalm of David. O LORD, rebuke me not in Your anger nor discipline and chasten me in Your hot displeasure." 
Psalms6:2 Have mercy on me and be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am weak (faint and withered away); O Lord, heal me, for my bones are troubled." 
Psalms6:3 My [inner] self [as well as my body] is also exceedingly disturbed and troubled. But You, O Lord, how long [until You return and speak peace to me]?" 
Psalms6:4 Return [to my relief], O Lord, deliver my life; save me for the sake of Your steadfast love and mercy." 
Psalms6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of You; in Sheol (the place of the dead) who will give You thanks? 
Psalms6:6 I am weary with my groaning; all night I soak my pillow with tears, I drench my couch with my weeping." 
Psalms6:7 My eye grows dim because of grief; it grows old because of all my enemies. 
Psalms6:8 Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity, for the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping. [Matt. 7:23; Luke 13:27.]" 
Psalms6:9 The Lord has heard my supplication; the Lord receives my prayer. 
Psalms6:10 Let all my enemies be ashamed and sorely troubled; let them turn back and be put to shame suddenly. 
Psalms7:1 An Ode of David, [probably] in a wild, irregular, enthusiastic strain, which he sang to the Lord concerning the words of Cush, a Benjamite. O LORD my God, in You I take refuge and put my trust; save me from all those who pursue and persecute me, and deliver me," 
Psalms7:2 Lest my foe tear my life [from my body] like a lion, dragging me away while there is none to deliver." 
Psalms7:3 O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands," 
Psalms7:4 If I have paid back with evil him who was at peace with me or without cause have robbed him who was my enemy," 
Psalms7:5 Let the enemy pursue my life and take it; yes, let him trample my life to the ground and lay my honor in the dust. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms7:6 Arise, O Lord, in Your anger; lift up Yourself against the rage of my enemies; and awake [and stir up] for me the justice and vindication [that] You have commanded." 
Psalms7:7 Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about You, and return on high over them." 
Psalms7:8 The Lord judges the people; judge me, O Lord, and do me justice according to my righteousness [my rightness, justice, and right standing with You] and according to the integrity that is in me." 
Psalms7:9 Oh, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the [uncompromisingly] righteous [those upright and in harmony with You]; for You, Who try the hearts and emotions and thinking powers, are a righteous God. [Rev. 2:23.]" 
Psalms7:10 My defense and shield depend on God, Who saves the upright in heart." 
Psalms7:11 God is a righteous Judge, yes, a God Who is indignant every day." 
Psalms7:12 If a man does not turn and repent, [God] will whet His sword; He has strung and bent His [huge] bow and made it ready [by treading it with His foot]." 
Psalms7:13 He has also prepared for him deadly weapons; He makes His arrows fiery shafts. 
Psalms7:14 Behold, [the wicked man] conceives iniquity and is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies." 
Psalms7:15 He made a pit and hollowed it out and has fallen into the hole which he made [before the trap was completed]. 
Psalms7:16 His mischief shall fall back in return upon his own head, and his violence come down [with the loose dirt] upon his own scalp." 
Psalms7:17 I will give to the Lord the thanks due to His rightness and justice, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High." 
Psalms8:1 To the Chief Musician; set to a Philistine lute, or [possibly] to a particular Hittite tune. A Psalm of David. O LORD, our Lord, how excellent (majestic and glorious) is Your name in all the earth! You have set Your glory on [or above] the heavens." 
Psalms8:2 Out of the mouths of babes and unweaned infants You have established strength because of Your foes, that You might silence the enemy and the avenger. [Matt. 21:15, 16.]" 
Psalms8:3 When I view and consider Your heavens, the work of Your fingers, the moon and the stars, which You have ordained and established," 
Psalms8:4 What is man that You are mindful of him, and the son of [earthborn] man that You care for him?" 
Psalms8:5 Yet You have made him but a little lower than God [or heavenly beings], and You have crowned him with glory and honor." 
Psalms8:6 You made him to have dominion over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet: [I Cor. 15:27; Eph. 1:22, 23; Heb. 2:6-8.]" 
Psalms8:7 All sheep and oxen, yes, and the beasts of the field," 
Psalms8:8 The birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatever passes along the paths of the seas." 
Psalms8:9 O Lord, our Lord, how excellent (majestic and glorious) is Your name in all the earth!" 
Psalms9:1 To the Chief Musician; set for [possibly] soprano voices. A Psalm of David. I WILL praise You, O Lord, with my whole heart; I will show forth (recount and tell aloud) all Your marvelous works and wonderful deeds!" 
Psalms9:2 I will rejoice in You and be in high spirits; I will sing praise to Your name, O Most High!" 
Psalms9:3 When my enemies turned back, they stumbled and perished before You." 
Psalms9:4 For You have maintained my right and my cause; You sat on the throne judging righteously. 
Psalms9:5 You have rebuked the nations, You have destroyed the wicked; You have blotted out their name forever and ever." 
Psalms9:6 The enemy have been cut off and have vanished in everlasting ruins, You have plucked up and overthrown their cities; the very memory of them has perished and vanished." 
Psalms9:7 But the Lord shall remain and continue forever; He has prepared and established His throne for judgment. [Heb. 1:11.] 
Psalms9:8 And He will judge the world in righteousness (rightness and equity); He will minister justice to the peoples in uprightness. [Acts 17:31.] 
Psalms9:9 The Lord also will be a refuge and a high tower for the oppressed, a refuge and a stronghold in times of trouble (high cost, destitution, and desperation)." 
Psalms9:10 And they who know Your name [who have experience and acquaintance with Your mercy] will lean on and confidently put their trust in You, for You, Lord, have not forsaken those who seek (inquire of and for) You [on the authority of God's Word and the right of their necessity]. [Ps. 42:1.]" 
Psalms9:11 Sing praises to the Lord, Who dwells in Zion! Declare among the peoples His doings!" 
Psalms9:12 For He Who avenges the blood [of His people shed unjustly] remembers them; He does not forget the cry of the afflicted (the poor and the humble). 
Psalms9:13 Have mercy upon me and be gracious to me, O Lord; consider how I am afflicted by those who hate me, You Who lift me up from the gates of death," 
Psalms9:14 That I may show forth (recount and tell aloud) all Your praises! In the gates of the Daughter of Zion I will rejoice in Your salvation and Your saving help. 
Psalms9:15 The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made; in the net which they hid is their own foot caught. 
Psalms9:16 The Lord has made Himself known; He executes judgment; the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. Higgaion [meditation]. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms9:17 The wicked shall be turned back [headlong into premature death] into Sheol (the place of the departed spirits of the wicked), even all the nations that forget or are forgetful of God." 
Psalms9:18 For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the expectation and hope of the meek and the poor shall not perish forever." 
Psalms9:19 Arise, O Lord! Let not man prevail; let the nations be judged before You." 
Psalms9:20 Put them in fear [make them realize their frail nature], O Lord, that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms10:1 WHY DO You stand afar off, O Lord? Why do You hide Yourself, [veiling Your eyes] in times of trouble (distress and desperation)?" 
Psalms10:2 The wicked in pride and arrogance hotly pursue and persecute the poor; let them be taken in the schemes which they have devised. 
Psalms10:3 For the wicked man boasts (sings the praises) of his own heart's desire, and the one greedy for gain curses and spurns, yes, renounces and despises the Lord." 
Psalms10:4 The wicked one in the pride of his countenance will not seek, inquire for, and yearn for God; all his thoughts are that there is no God [so He never punishes]." 
Psalms10:5 His ways are grievous [or persist] at all times; Your judgments [Lord] are far above and on high out of his sight [so he never thinks about them]; as for all his foes, he sniffs and sneers at them." 
Psalms10:6 He thinks in his heart, I shall not be moved; for throughout all generations I shall not come to want or be in adversity." 
Psalms10:7 His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, oppression (fraud); under his tongue are trouble and sin (mischief and iniquity)." 
Psalms10:8 He sits in ambush in the villages; in hiding places he slays the innocent; he watches stealthily for the poor (the helpless and unfortunate). 
Psalms10:9 He lurks in secret places like a lion in his thicket; he lies in wait that he may seize the poor (the helpless and the unfortunate); he seizes the poor when he draws him into his net. 
Psalms10:10 [The prey] is crushed, sinks down; and the helpless falls by his mighty [claws]." 
Psalms10:11 [The foe] thinks in his heart, God has quite forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see [my deed]." 
Psalms10:12 Arise, O Lord! O God, lift up Your hand; forget not the humble [patient and crushed]." 
Psalms10:13 Why does the wicked [man] condemn (spurn and renounce) God? Why has he thought in his heart, You will not call to account?" 
Psalms10:14 You have seen it; yes, You note trouble and grief (vexation) to requite it with Your hand. The unfortunate commits himself to You; You are the helper of the fatherless." 
Psalms10:15 Break the arm of the wicked man; and as for the evil man, search out his wickedness until You find no more." 
Psalms10:16 The Lord is King forever and ever; the nations will perish out of His land. 
Psalms10:17 O Lord, You have heard the desire and the longing of the humble and oppressed; You will prepare and strengthen and direct their hearts, You will cause Your ear to hear," 
Psalms10:18 To do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man, who is of the earth, may not terrify them any more." 
Psalms11:1 To the Chief Musician or Choir Leader. [A Psalm] of David. IN THE Lord I take refuge [and put my trust]; how can you say to me, Flee like a bird to your mountain?" 
Psalms11:2 For see, the wicked are bending the bow; they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they [furtively] in darkness may shoot at the upright in heart." 
Psalms11:3 If the foundations are destroyed, what can the [unyieldingly] righteous do, or what has He [the Righteous One] wrought or accomplished?" 
Psalms11:4 The Lord is in His holy temple; the Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes behold; His eyelids test and prove the children of men. [Acts 7:49; Rev. 4:2.] 
Psalms11:5 The Lord tests and proves the [unyieldingly] righteous, but His soul abhors the wicked and him who loves violence. [James 1:12.]" 
Psalms11:6 Upon the wicked He will rain quick burning coals or snares; fire, brimstone, and a [dreadful] scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup." 
Psalms11:7 For the Lord is [rigidly] righteous, He loves righteous deeds; the upright shall behold His face, or He beholds the upright." 
Psalms12:1 To the Chief Musician; set [possibly] an octave below. A Psalm of David. HELP, LORD! For principled and godly people are here no more; faithfulness and the faithful vanish from among the sons of men." 
Psalms12:2 To his neighbor each one speaks words without use or worth or truth; with flattering lips and double heart [deceitfully] they speak. 
Psalms12:3 May the Lord cut off all flattering lips and the tongues that speak proud boasting," 
Psalms12:4 Those who say, With our tongues we prevail; our lips are our own [to command at our will],who is lord and master over us?" 
Psalms12:5 Now will I arise, says the Lord, because the poor are oppressed, because of the groans of the needy; I will set him in safety and in the salvation for which he pants." 
Psalms12:6 The words and promises of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in an earthen furnace, purified seven times over." 
Psalms12:7 You will keep them and preserve them, O Lord; You will guard and keep us from this [evil] generation forever." 
Psalms12:8 The wicked walk or prowl about on every side, as vileness is exalted [and baseness is rated high] among the sons of men." 
Psalms13:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. HOW LONG will You forget me, O Lord? Forever? How long will You hide Your face from me?" 
Psalms13:2 How long must I lay up cares within me and have sorrow in my heart day after day? How long shall my enemy exalt himself over me? 
Psalms13:3 Consider and answer me, O Lord my God; lighten the eyes [of my faith to behold Your face in the pitchlike darkness], lest I sleep the sleep of death," 
Psalms13:4 Lest my enemy say, I have prevailed over him, and those that trouble me rejoice when I am shaken." 
Psalms13:5 But I have trusted, leaned on, and been confident in Your mercy and loving-kindness; my heart shall rejoice and be in high spirits in Your salvation." 
Psalms13:6 I will sing to the Lord, because He has dealt bountifully with me." 
Psalms14:1 To the Chief Musician. [A Psalm] of David. THE [empty-headed] fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable deeds; there is none that does good or right. [Rom. 3:10.]" 
Psalms14:2 The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any who understood, dealt wisely, and sought after God, inquiring for and of Him and requiring Him [of vital necessity]." 
Psalms14:3 They are all gone aside, they have all together become filthy; there is none that does good or right, no, not one. [Rom. 3:11, 12.]" 
Psalms14:4 Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread and who do not call on the Lord?" 
Psalms14:5 There they shall be in great fear [literally,dreading a dread], for God is with the generation of the [uncompromisingly] righteous (those upright and in right standing with Him)." 
Psalms14:6 You [evildoers] would put to shame and confound the plans of the poor and patient, but the Lord is his safe refuge." 
Psalms14:7 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When the Lord shall restore the fortunes of His people, then Jacob shall rejoice and Israel shall be glad. [Rom. 11:25-27.]" 
Psalms15:1 A Psalm of David. LORD, WHO shall dwell [temporarily] in Your tabernacle? Who shall dwell [permanently] on Your holy hill?" 
Psalms15:2 He who walks and lives uprightly and blamelessly, who works rightness and justice and speaks and thinks the truth in his heart," 
Psalms15:3 He who does not slander with his tongue, nor does evil to his friend, nor takes up a reproach against his neighbor;" 
Psalms15:4 In whose eyes a vile person is despised, but he who honors those who fear the Lord (who revere and worship Him); who swears to his own hurt and does not change;" 
Psalms15:5 [He who] does not put out his money for interest [to one of his own people] and who will not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved. [Exod. 22:25, 26.]" 
Psalms16:1 A Poem of David; [probably] intended to record memorable thoughts. KEEP and protect me, O God, for in You I have found refuge, and in You do I put my trust and hide myself." 
Psalms16:2 I say to the Lord, You are my Lord; I have no good beside or beyond You." 
Psalms16:3 As for the godly (the saints) who are in the land, they are the excellent, the noble, and the glorious, in whom is all my delight." 
Psalms16:4 Their sorrows shall be multiplied who choose another god; their drink offerings of blood will I not offer or take their names upon my lips. 
Psalms16:5 The Lord is my chosen and assigned portion, my cup; You hold and maintain my lot." 
Psalms16:6 The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; yes, I have a good heritage." 
Psalms16:7 I will bless the Lord, Who has given me counsel; yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons." 
Psalms16:8 I have set the Lord continually before me; because He is at my right hand, I shall not be moved." 
Psalms16:9 Therefore my heart is glad and my glory [my inner self] rejoices; my body too shall rest and confidently dwell in safety," 
Psalms16:10 For You will not abandon me to Sheol (the place of the dead), neither will You suffer Your holy one [Holy One] to see corruption. [Acts 13:35.]" 
Psalms16:11 You will show me the path of life; in Your presence is fullness of joy, at Your right hand there are pleasures forevermore. [Acts 2:25-28, 31.]" 
Psalms17:1 A Prayer of David. HEAR THE right (my righteous cause), O Lord; listen to my shrill, piercing cry! Give ear to my prayer, that comes from unfeigned and guileless lips." 
Psalms17:2 Let my sentence of vindication come from You! May Your eyes behold the things that are just and upright. 
Psalms17:3 You have proved my heart; You have visited me in the night; You have tried me and find nothing [no evil purpose in me]; I have purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. 
Psalms17:4 Concerning the works of men, by the word of Your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent (the paths of the destroyer)." 
Psalms17:5 My steps have held closely to Your paths [to the tracks of the One Who has gone on before]; my feet have not slipped. 
Psalms17:6 I have called upon You, O God, for You will hear me; incline Your ear to me and hear my speech." 
Psalms17:7 Show Your marvelous loving-kindness, O You Who save by Your right hand those who trust and take refuge in You from those who rise up against them." 
Psalms17:8 Keep and guard me as the pupil of Your eye; hide me in the shadow of Your wings 
Psalms17:9 From the wicked who despoil and oppress me, my deadly adversaries who surround me." 
Psalms17:10 They are enclosed in their own prosperity and have shut up their hearts to pity; with their mouths they make exorbitant claims and proudly and arrogantly speak. 
Psalms17:11 They track us down in each step we take; now they surround us; they set their eyes to cast us to the ground," 
Psalms17:12 Like a lion greedy and eager to tear his prey, and as a young lion lurking in hidden places." 
Psalms17:13 Arise, O Lord! Confront and forestall them, cast them down! Deliver my life from the wicked by Your sword," 
Psalms17:14 From men by Your hand, O Lord, from men of this world [these poor moths of the night] whose portion in life is idle and vain. Their bellies are filled with Your hidden treasure [what You have stored up]; their children are satiated, and they leave the rest [of their] wealth to their babes." 
Psalms17:15 As for me, I will continue beholding Your face in righteousness (rightness, justice, and right standing with You); I shall be fully satisfied, when I awake [to find myself] beholding Your form [and having sweet communion with You]." 
Psalms18:1 To the Chief Musician. [A Psalm] of David the servant of the Lord, who spoke the words of this song to the Lord on the day when the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. And he said: I LOVE You fervently and devotedly, O Lord, my Strength." 
Psalms18:2 The Lord is my Rock, my Fortress, and my Deliverer; my God, my keen and firm Strength in Whom I will trust and take refuge, my Shield, and the Horn of my salvation, my High Tower. [Heb. 2:13.]" 
Psalms18:3 I will call upon the Lord, Who is to be praised; so shall I be saved from my enemies. [Rev. 5:12.]" 
Psalms18:4 The cords or bands of death surrounded me, and the streams of ungodliness and the torrents of ruin terrified me." 
Psalms18:5 The cords of Sheol (the place of the dead) surrounded me; the snares of death confronted and came upon me. 
Psalms18:6 In my distress [when seemingly closed in] I called upon the Lord and cried to my God; He heard my voice out of His temple (heavenly dwelling place), and my cry came before Him, into His [very] ears." 
Psalms18:7 Then the earth quaked and rocked, the foundations also of the mountains trembled; they moved and were shaken because He was indignant and angry." 
Psalms18:8 There went up smoke from His nostrils; and lightning out of His mouth devoured; coals were kindled by it. 
Psalms18:9 He bowed the heavens also and came down; and thick darkness was under His feet. 
Psalms18:10 And He rode upon a cherub [a storm] and flew [swiftly]; yes, He sped on with the wings of the wind." 
Psalms18:11 He made darkness His secret hiding place; as His pavilion (His canopy) round about Him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies. 
Psalms18:12 Out of the brightness before Him there broke forth through His thick clouds hailstones and coals of fire. 
Psalms18:13 The Lord also thundered from the heavens, and the Most High uttered His voice, amid hailstones and coals of fire." 
Psalms18:14 And He sent out His arrows and scattered them; and He flashed forth lightnings and put them to rout. 
Psalms18:15 Then the beds of the sea appeared and the foundations of the world were laid bare at Your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of Your nostrils." 
Psalms18:16 He reached from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters." 
Psalms18:17 He delivered me from my strong enemy and from those who hated and abhorred me, for they were too strong for me." 
Psalms18:18 They confronted and came upon me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my stay and support." 
Psalms18:19 He brought me forth also into a large place; He was delivering me because He was pleased with me and delighted in me. 
Psalms18:20 The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness (my conscious integrity and sincerity with Him); according to the cleanness of my hands has He recompensed me. 
Psalms18:21 For I have kept the ways of the Lord and have not wickedly departed from my God. 
Psalms18:22 For all His ordinances were before me, and I put not away His statutes from me." 
Psalms18:23 I was upright before Him and blameless with Him, ever [on guard] to keep myself free from my sin and guilt." 
Psalms18:24 Therefore has the Lord recompensed me according to my righteousness (my uprightness and right standing with Him), according to the cleanness of my hands in His sight." 
Psalms18:25 With the kind and merciful You will show Yourself kind and merciful, with an upright man You will show Yourself upright," 
Psalms18:26 With the pure You will show Yourself pure, and with the perverse You will show Yourself contrary." 
Psalms18:27 For You deliver an afflicted and humble people but will bring down those with haughty looks. 
Psalms18:28 For You cause my lamp to be lighted and to shine; the Lord my God illumines my darkness. 
Psalms18:29 For by You I can run through a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall." 
Psalms18:30 As for God, His way is perfect! The word of the Lord is tested and tried; He is a shield to all those who take refuge and put their trust in Him." 
Psalms18:31 For who is God except the Lord? Or who is the Rock save our God," 
Psalms18:32 The God who girds me with strength and makes my way perfect? 
Psalms18:33 He makes my feet like hinds' feet [able to stand firmly or make progress on the dangerous heights of testing and trouble]; He sets me securely upon my high places. 
Psalms18:34 He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze." 
Psalms18:35 You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, and Your right hand has held me up; Your gentleness and condescension have made me great." 
Psalms18:36 You have given plenty of room for my steps under me, that my feet would not slip." 
Psalms18:37 I pursued my enemies and overtook them; neither did I turn again till they were consumed. 
Psalms18:38 I smote them so that they were not able to rise; they fell wounded under my feet. 
Psalms18:39 For You have girded me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me and caused to bow down those who rose up against me. 
Psalms18:40 You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me." 
Psalms18:41 They cried [for help], but there was none to deliver,even unto the Lord, but He answered them not." 
Psalms18:42 Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind; I emptied them out as the dirt and mire of the streets. 
Psalms18:43 You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; You made me the head of the nations; a people I had not known served me. 
Psalms18:44 As soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me; foreigners submitted themselves cringingly and yielded feigned obedience to me." 
Psalms18:45 Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their caves or strongholds. 
Psalms18:46 The Lord lives! Blessed be my Rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted," 
Psalms18:47 The God Who avenges me and subdues peoples under me," 
Psalms18:48 Who delivers me from my enemies; yes, You lift me up above those who rise up against me; You deliver me from the man of violence." 
Psalms18:49 Therefore will I give thanks and extol You, O Lord, among the nations, and sing praises to Your name. [Rom. 15:9.]" 
Psalms18:50 Great deliverances and triumphs gives He to His king; and He shows mercy and steadfast love to His anointed, to David and his offspring forever. [II Sam. 22:2-51.]" 
Psalms19:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. THE HEAVENS declare the glory of God; and the firmament shows and proclaims His handiwork. [Rom. 1:20, 21.]" 
Psalms19:2 Day after day pours forth speech, and night after night shows forth knowledge." 
Psalms19:3 There is no speech nor spoken word [from the stars]; their voice is not heard. 
Psalms19:4 Yet their voice [in evidence] goes out through all the earth, their sayings to the end of the world. Of the heavens has God made a tent for the sun, [Rom. 10:18.]" 
Psalms19:5 Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber; and it rejoices as a strong man to run his course. 
Psalms19:6 Its going forth is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the ends of it; and nothing [yes, no one] is hidden from the heat of it." 
Psalms19:7 The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the [whole] person; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple." 
Psalms19:8 The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure and bright, enlightening the eyes." 
Psalms19:9 The [reverent] fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the ordinances of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." 
Psalms19:10 More to be desired are they than gold, even than much fine gold; they are sweeter also than honey and drippings from the honeycomb." 
Psalms19:11 Moreover, by them is Your servant warned (reminded, illuminated, and instructed); and in keeping them there is great reward." 
Psalms19:12 Who can discern his lapses and errors? Clear me from hidden [and unconscious] faults. 
Psalms19:13 Keep back Your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then shall I be blameless, and I shall be innocent and clear of great transgression." 
Psalms19:14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in Your sight, O Lord, my [firm, impenetrable] Rock and my Redeemer." 
Psalms20:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. MAY THE Lord answer you in the day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob set you up on high [and defend you]; 
Psalms20:2 Send you help from the sanctuary and support, refresh, and strengthen you from Zion;" 
Psalms20:3 Remember all your offerings and accept your burnt sacrifice. Selah [pause, and think of that]!" 
Psalms20:4 May He grant you according to your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. 
Psalms20:5 We will [shout in] triumph at your salvation and victory, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions." 
Psalms20:6 Now I know that the Lord saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven with the saving strength of His right hand. 
Psalms20:7 Some trust in and boast of chariots and some of horses, but we will trust in and boast of the name of the Lord our God." 
Psalms20:8 They are bowed down and fallen, but we are risen and stand upright." 
Psalms20:9 O Lord, give victory; let the King answer us when we call." 
Psalms21:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. THE KING [David] shall joy in Your strength, O Lord; and in Your salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!" 
Psalms21:2 You have given him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah [pause, and think of that]!" 
Psalms21:3 For You send blessings of good things to meet him; You set a crown of pure gold on his head. 
Psalms21:4 He asked life of You, and You gave it to him,long life forever and evermore." 
Psalms21:5 His glory is great because of Your aid; splendor and majesty You bestow upon him. 
Psalms21:6 For You make him to be blessed and a blessing forever; You make him exceedingly glad with the joy of Your presence. [Gen. 12:2.] 
Psalms21:7 For the king trusts, relies on, and is confident in the Lord, and through the mercy and steadfast love of the Most High he will never be moved." 
Psalms21:8 Your hand shall find all Your enemies; Your right hand shall find all those who hate You. 
Psalms21:9 You will make them as if in a blazing oven in the time of Your anger; the Lord will swallow them up in His wrath, and the fire will utterly consume them." 
Psalms21:10 Their offspring You will destroy from the earth, and their sons from among the children of men." 
Psalms21:11 For they planned evil against You; they conceived a mischievous plot which they are not able to perform. 
Psalms21:12 For You will make them turn their backs; You will aim Your bow [of divine justice] at their faces. 
Psalms21:13 Be exalted, Lord, in Your strength; we will sing and praise Your power." 
Psalms22:1 To the Chief Musician; set to [the tune of] Aijeleth Hashshahar [the hind of the morning dawn]. A Psalm of David. MY GOD, my God, why have You forsaken me? Why are You so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning? [Matt. 27:46.]" 
Psalms22:2 O my God, I cry in the daytime, but You answer not; and by night I am not silent or find no rest." 
Psalms22:3 But You are holy, O You Who dwell in [the holy place where] the praises of Israel [are offered]." 
Psalms22:4 Our fathers trusted in You; they trusted (leaned on, relied on You, and were confident) and You delivered them." 
Psalms22:5 They cried to You and were delivered; they trusted in, leaned on, and confidently relied on You, and were not ashamed or confounded or disappointed." 
Psalms22:6 But I am a worm, and no man; I am the scorn of men, and despised by the people. [Matt. 27:39-44.]" 
Psalms22:7 All who see me laugh at me and mock me; they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, [Matt. 27:43.]" 
Psalms22:8 He trusted and rolled himself on the Lord, that He would deliver him. Let Him deliver him, seeing that He delights in him! [Matt. 27:39, 43; Mark 15:29, 30; Luke 23:35.]" 
Psalms22:9 Yet You are He Who took me out of the womb; You made me hope and trust when I was on my mother's breasts. 
Psalms22:10 I was cast upon You from my very birth; from my mother's womb You have been my God. 
Psalms22:11 Be not far from me, for trouble is near and there is none to help." 
Psalms22:12 Many [foes like] bulls have surrounded me; strong bulls of Bashan have hedged me in. [Ezek. 39:18.] 
Psalms22:13 Against me they opened their mouths wide, like a ravening and roaring lion." 
Psalms22:14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; it is softened [with anguish] and melted down within me." 
Psalms22:15 My strength is dried up like a fragment of clay pottery; [with thirst] my tongue cleaves to my jaws; and You have brought me into the dust of death. [John 19:28.] 
Psalms22:16 For [like a pack of] dogs they have encompassed me; a company of evildoers has encircled me, they pierced my hands and my feet. [Isa. 53:7; John 19:37.]" 
Psalms22:17 I can count all my bones; [the evildoers] gaze at me. [Luke 23:27, 35.]" 
Psalms22:18 They part my clothing among them and cast lots for my raiment (a long, shirtlike garment, a seamless undertunic). [John 19:23, 24.])" 
Psalms22:19 But be not far from me, O Lord; O my Help, hasten to aid me!" 
Psalms22:20 Deliver my life from the sword, my dear life [my only one] from the power of the dog [the agent of execution]." 
Psalms22:21 Save me from the lion's mouth; for You have answered me [kindly] from the horns of the wild oxen. 
Psalms22:22 I will declare Your name to my brethren; in the midst of the congregation will I praise You. [John 20:17; Rom. 8:29; Heb. 2:12.] 
Psalms22:23 You who fear (revere and worship) the Lord, praise Him! All you offspring of Jacob, glorify Him. Fear (revere and worship) Him, all you offspring of Israel." 
Psalms22:24 For He has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither has He hidden His face from him, but when he cried to Him, He heard." 
Psalms22:25 My praise shall be of You in the great congregation. I will pay to Him my vows [made in the time of trouble] before them who fear (revere and worship) Him. 
Psalms22:26 The poor and afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; they shall praise the Lord,they who [diligently] seek for, inquire of and for Him, and require Him [as their greatest need]. May your hearts be quickened now and forever!" 
Psalms22:27 All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall bow down and worship before You," 
Psalms22:28 For the kingship and the kingdom are the Lord's, and He is the ruler over the nations." 
Psalms22:29 All the mighty ones upon earth shall eat [in thanksgiving] and worship; all they that go down to the dust shall bow before Him, even he who cannot keep himself alive." 
Psalms22:30 Posterity shall serve Him; they shall tell of the Lord to the next generation. 
Psalms22:31 They shall come and shall declare His righteousness to a people yet to be born,that He has done it [that it is finished]! [John 19:30.] 
Psalms23:1 A Psalm of David. THE LORD is my Shepherd [to feed, guide, and shield me], I shall not lack." 
Psalms23:2 He makes me lie down in [fresh, tender] green pastures; He leads me beside the still and restful waters. [Rev. 7:17.]" 
Psalms23:3 He refreshes and restores my life (my self); He leads me in the paths of righteousness [uprightness and right standing with Him,not for my earning it, but] for His name's sake." 
Psalms23:4 Yes, though I walk through the [deep, sunless] valley of the shadow of death, I will fear or dread no evil, for You are with me; Your rod [to protect] and Your staff [to guide], they comfort me." 
Psalms23:5 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my [brimming] cup runs over. 
Psalms23:6 Surely or only goodness, mercy, and unfailing love shall follow me all the days of my life, and through the length of my days the house of the Lord [and His presence] shall be my dwelling place." 
Psalms24:1 A Psalm of David. THE EARTH is the Lord's, and the fullness of it, the world and they who dwell in it. [I Cor. 10:26.]" 
Psalms24:2 For He has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the currents and the rivers. 
Psalms24:3 Who shall go up into the mountain of the Lord? Or who shall stand in His Holy Place? 
Psalms24:4 He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted himself up to falsehood or to what is false, nor sworn deceitfully. [Matt. 5:8.]" 
Psalms24:5 He shall receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. 
Psalms24:6 This is the generation [description] of those who seek Him [who inquire of and for Him and of necessity require Him], who seek Your face, [O God of] Jacob. Selah [pause, and think of that]! [Ps. 42:1.]" 
Psalms24:7 Lift up your heads, O you gates; and be lifted up, you age-abiding doors, that the King of glory may come in." 
Psalms24:8 Who is the King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle." 
Psalms24:9 Lift up your heads, O you gates; yes, lift them up, you age-abiding doors, that the King of glory may come in." 
Psalms24:10 Who is [He then] this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, He is the King of glory. Selah [pause, and think of that]!" 
Psalms25:1 [A Psalm] of David. UNTO YOU, O Lord, do I bring my life." 
Psalms25:2 O my God, I trust, lean on, rely on, and am confident in You. Let me not be put to shame or [my hope in You] be disappointed; let not my enemies triumph over me." 
Psalms25:3 Yes, let none who trust and wait hopefully and look for You be put to shame or be disappointed; let them be ashamed who forsake the right or deal treacherously without cause." 
Psalms25:4 Show me Your ways, O Lord; teach me Your paths." 
Psalms25:5 Guide me in Your truth and faithfulness and teach me, for You are the God of my salvation; for You [You only and altogether] do I wait [expectantly] all the day long." 
Psalms25:6 Remember, O Lord, Your tender mercy and loving-kindness; for they have been ever from of old." 
Psalms25:7 Remember not the sins (the lapses and frailties) of my youth or my transgressions; according to Your mercy and steadfast love remember me, for Your goodness' sake, O Lord." 
Psalms25:8 Good and upright is the Lord; therefore will He instruct sinners in [His] way. 
Psalms25:9 He leads the humble in what is right, and the humble He teaches His way." 
Psalms25:10 All the paths of the Lord are mercy and steadfast love, even truth and faithfulness are they for those who keep His covenant and His testimonies." 
Psalms25:11 For Your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity and my guilt, for [they are] great." 
Psalms25:12 Who is the man who reverently fears and worships the Lord? Him shall He teach in the way that he should choose. 
Psalms25:13 He himself shall dwell at ease, and his offspring shall inherit the land." 
Psalms25:14 The secret [of the sweet, satisfying companionship] of the Lord have they who fear (revere and worship) Him, and He will show them His covenant and reveal to them its [deep, inner] meaning. [John 7:17; 15:15.]" 
Psalms25:15 My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for He will pluck my feet out of the net." 
Psalms25:16 [Lord] turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted." 
Psalms25:17 The troubles of my heart are multiplied; bring me out of my distresses. 
Psalms25:18 Behold my affliction and my pain and forgive all my sins [of thinking and doing]. 
Psalms25:19 Consider my enemies, for they abound; they hate me with cruel hatred." 
Psalms25:20 O keep me, Lord, and deliver me; let me not be ashamed or disappointed, for my trust and my refuge are in You." 
Psalms25:21 Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for and expect You." 
Psalms25:22 Redeem Israel, O God, out of all their troubles." 
Psalms26:1 [A Psalm] of David. VINDICATE ME, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity; I have [expectantly] trusted in, leaned on, and relied on the Lord without wavering and I shall not slide." 
Psalms26:2 Examine me, O Lord, and prove me; test my heart and my mind." 
Psalms26:3 For Your loving-kindness is before my eyes, and I have walked in Your truth [faithfully]." 
Psalms26:4 I do not sit with false persons, nor fellowship with pretenders;" 
Psalms26:5 I hate the company of evildoers and will not sit with the wicked. 
Psalms26:6 I will wash my hands in innocence, and go about Your altar, O Lord," 
Psalms26:7 That I may make the voice of thanksgiving heard and may tell of all Your wondrous works. 
Psalms26:8 Lord, I love the habitation of Your house, and the place where Your glory dwells." 
Psalms26:9 Gather me not with sinners and sweep me not away [with them], nor my life with bloodthirsty men," 
Psalms26:10 In whose hands is wickedness, and their right hands are full of bribes." 
Psalms26:11 But as for me, I will walk in my integrity; redeem me and be merciful and gracious to me." 
Psalms26:12 My foot stands on an even place; in the congregations will I bless the Lord. 
Psalms27:1 [A Psalm] of David. THE LORD is my Light and my Salvation,whom shall I fear or dread? The Lord is the Refuge and Stronghold of my life,of whom shall I be afraid? 
Psalms27:2 When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell." 
Psalms27:3 Though a host encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war arise against me, [even then] in this will I be confident." 
Psalms27:4 One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek, inquire for, and [insistently] require: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord [in His presence] all the days of my life, to behold and gaze upon the beauty [the sweet attractiveness and the delightful loveliness] of the Lord and to meditate, consider, and inquire in His temple. [Ps. 16:11; 18:6; 65:4; Luke 2:37.]" 
Psalms27:5 For in the day of trouble He will hide me in His shelter; in the secret place of His tent will He hide me; He will set me high upon a rock. 
Psalms27:6 And now shall my head be lifted up above my enemies round about me; in His tent I will offer sacrifices and shouting of joy; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the Lord." 
Psalms27:7 Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud; have mercy and be gracious to me and answer me!" 
Psalms27:8 You have said, Seek My face [inquire for and require My presence as your vital need]. My heart says to You, Your face (Your presence), Lord, will I seek, inquire for, and require [of necessity and on the authority of Your Word]." 
Psalms27:9 Hide not Your face from me; turn not Your servant away in anger, You Who have been my help! Cast me not off, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation!" 
Psalms27:10 Although my father and my mother have forsaken me, yet the Lord will take me up [adopt me as His child]. [Ps. 22:10.]" 
Psalms27:11 Teach me Your way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain and even path because of my enemies [those who lie in wait for me]." 
Psalms27:12 Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen up against me; they breathe out cruelty and violence." 
Psalms27:13 [What, what would have become of me] had I not believed that I would see the Lord's goodness in the land of the living!" 
Psalms27:14 Wait and hope for and expect the Lord; be brave and of good courage and let your heart be stout and enduring. Yes, wait for and hope for and expect the Lord." 
Psalms28:1 [A Psalm] of David. UNTO YOU do I cry, O Lord my Rock, be not deaf and silent to me, lest, if You be silent to me, I become like those going down to the pit [the grave]." 
Psalms28:2 Hear the voice of my supplication as I cry to You for help, as I lift up my hands toward Your innermost sanctuary (the Holy of Holies)." 
Psalms28:3 Drag me not away with the wicked, with the workers of iniquity, who speak peace with their neighbors, but malice and mischief are in their hearts." 
Psalms28:4 Repay them according to their work and according to the wickedness of their doings; repay them according to the work of their hands; render to them what they deserve. [II Tim. 4:14; Rev. 18:6.] 
Psalms28:5 Because they regard not the works of the Lord nor the operations of His hands, He will break them down and not rebuild them." 
Psalms28:6 Blessed be the Lord, because He has heard the voice of my supplications." 
Psalms28:7 The Lord is my Strength and my [impenetrable] Shield; my heart trusts in, relies on, and confidently leans on Him, and I am helped; therefore my heart greatly rejoices, and with my song will I praise Him." 
Psalms28:8 The Lord is their [unyielding] Strength, and He is the Stronghold of salvation to [me] His anointed." 
Psalms28:9 Save Your people and bless Your heritage; nourish and shepherd them and carry them forever. 
Psalms29:1 A Psalm of David. ASCRIBE TO the Lord, O sons of the mighty, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength." 
Psalms29:2 Give to the Lord the glory due to His name; worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness or in holy array. 
Psalms29:3 The voice of the Lord is upon the waters; the God of glory thunders; the Lord is upon many (great) waters. 
Psalms29:4 The voice of the Lord is powerful; the voice of the Lord is full of majesty. 
Psalms29:5 The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; yes, the Lord breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon." 
Psalms29:6 He makes them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion (Mount Hermon) like a young, wild ox." 
Psalms29:7 The voice of the Lord splits and flashes forth forked lightning. 
Psalms29:8 The voice of the Lord makes the wilderness tremble; the Lord shakes the Wilderness of Kadesh. 
Psalms29:9 The voice of the Lord makes the hinds bring forth their young, and His voice strips bare the forests, while in His temple everyone is saying, Glory!" 
Psalms29:10 The Lord sat as King over the deluge; the Lord [still] sits as King [and] forever! 
Psalms29:11 The Lord will give [unyielding and impenetrable] strength to His people; the Lord will bless His people with peace. 
Psalms30:1 A Psalm; a Song at the Dedication of the Temple. [A Psalm] of David. I WILL extol You, O Lord, for You have lifted me up and have not let my foes rejoice over me." 
Psalms30:2 O Lord my God, I cried to You and You have healed me." 
Psalms30:3 O Lord, You have brought my life up from Sheol (the place of the dead); You have kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit (the grave)." 
Psalms30:4 Sing to the Lord, O you saints of His, and give thanks at the remembrance of His holy name." 
Psalms30:5 For His anger is but for a moment, but His favor is for a lifetime or in His favor is life. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. [II Cor. 4:17.]" 
Psalms30:6 As for me, in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved." 
Psalms30:7 By Your favor, O Lord, You have established me as a strong mountain; You hid Your face, and I was troubled." 
Psalms30:8 I cried to You, O Lord, and to the Lord I made supplication." 
Psalms30:9 What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit (the grave)? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your truth and faithfulness to men?" 
Psalms30:10 Hear, O Lord, have mercy and be gracious to me! O Lord, be my helper!" 
Psalms30:11 You have turned my mourning into dancing for me; You have put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness," 
Psalms30:12 To the end that my tongue and my heart and everything glorious within me may sing praise to You and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to You forever." 
Psalms31:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. IN YOU, O Lord, do I put my trust and seek refuge; let me never be put to shame or [have my hope in You] disappointed; deliver me in Your righteousness!" 
Psalms31:2 Bow down Your ear to me, deliver me speedily! Be my Rock of refuge, a strong Fortress to save me!" 
Psalms31:3 Yes, You are my Rock and my Fortress; therefore for Your name's sake lead me and guide me." 
Psalms31:4 Draw me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me, for You are my Strength and my Stronghold." 
Psalms31:5 Into Your hands I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O Lord, the God of truth and faithfulness. [Luke 23:46; Acts 7:59.]" 
Psalms31:6 [You and] I abhor those who pay regard to vain idols; but I trust in, rely on, and confidently lean on the Lord." 
Psalms31:7 I will be glad and rejoice in Your mercy and steadfast love, because You have seen my affliction, You have taken note of my life's distresses," 
Psalms31:8 And You have not given me into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a broad place. 
Psalms31:9 Have mercy and be gracious unto me, O Lord, for I am in trouble; with grief my eye is weakened, also my inner self and my body." 
Psalms31:10 For my life is spent with sorrow and my years with sighing; my strength has failed because of my iniquity, and even my bones have wasted away." 
Psalms31:11 To all my enemies I have become a reproach, but especially to my neighbors, and a dread to my acquaintances, who flee from me on the street." 
Psalms31:12 I am forgotten like a dead man, and out of mind; like a broken vessel am I." 
Psalms31:13 For I have heard the slander of many; terror is on every side! While they schemed together against me, they plotted to take my life." 
Psalms31:14 But I trusted in, relied on, and was confident in You, O Lord; I said, You are my God." 
Psalms31:15 My times are in Your hands; deliver me from the hands of my foes and those who pursue me and persecute me. 
Psalms31:16 Let Your face shine on Your servant; save me for Your mercy's sake and in Your loving-kindness. 
Psalms31:17 Let me not be put to shame, O Lord, or disappointed, for I am calling upon You; let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol (the place of the dead)." 
Psalms31:18 Let the lying lips be silenced, which speak insolently against the [consistently] righteous with pride and contempt." 
Psalms31:19 Oh, how great is Your goodness, which You have laid up for those who fear, revere, and worship You, goodness which You have wrought for those who trust and take refuge in You before the sons of men!" 
Psalms31:20 In the secret place of Your presence You hide them from the plots of men; You keep them secretly in Your pavilion from the strife of tongues. 
Psalms31:21 Blessed be the Lord! For He has shown me His marvelous loving favor when I was beset as in a besieged city. 
Psalms31:22 As for me, I said in my haste and alarm, I am cut off from before Your eyes. But You heard the voice of my supplications when I cried to You for aid." 
Psalms31:23 O love the Lord, all you His saints! The Lord preserves the faithful, and plentifully pays back him who deals haughtily." 
Psalms31:24 Be strong and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for and hope for and expect the Lord!" 
Psalms32:1 [A Psalm of David.] A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem. BLESSED (HAPPY, fortunate, to be envied) is he who has forgiveness of his transgression continually exercised upon him, whose sin is covered." 
Psalms32:2 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man to whom the Lord imputes no iniquity and in whose spirit there is no deceit. [Rom. 4:7, 8.]" 
Psalms32:3 When I kept silence [before I confessed], my bones wasted away through my groaning all the day long." 
Psalms32:4 For day and night Your hand [of displeasure] was heavy upon me; my moisture was turned into the drought of summer. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms32:5 I acknowledged my sin to You, and my iniquity I did not hide. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord [continually unfolding the past till all is told],then You [instantly] forgave me the guilt and iniquity of my sin. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms32:6 For this [forgiveness] let everyone who is godly pray,pray to You in a time when You may be found; surely when the great waters [of trial] overflow, they shall not reach [the spirit in] him." 
Psalms32:7 You are a hiding place for me; You, Lord, preserve me from trouble, You surround me with songs and shouts of deliverance. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms32:8 I [the Lord] will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with My eye upon you. 
Psalms32:9 Be not like the horse or the mule, which lack understanding, which must have their mouths held firm with bit and bridle, or else they will not come with you." 
Psalms32:10 Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but he who trusts in, relies on, and confidently leans on the Lord shall be compassed about with mercy and with loving-kindness." 
Psalms32:11 Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you [uncompromisingly] righteous [you who are upright and in right standing with Him]; shout for joy, all you upright in heart!" 
Psalms33:1 REJOICE IN the Lord, O you [uncompromisingly] righteous [you upright in right standing with God]; for praise is becoming and appropriate for those who are upright [in heart]." 
Psalms33:2 Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre; sing praises to Him with the harp of ten strings. 
Psalms33:3 Sing to Him a new song; play skillfully [on the strings] with a loud and joyful sound. 
Psalms33:4 For the word of the Lord is right; and all His work is done in faithfulness. 
Psalms33:5 He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the loving-kindness of the Lord. 
Psalms33:6 By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all their host by the breath of His mouth. [Heb. 11:3; II Pet. 3:5.]" 
Psalms33:7 He gathers the waters of the sea as in a bottle; He puts the deeps in storage places. 
Psalms33:8 Let all the earth fear the Lord [revere and worship Him]; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 
Psalms33:9 For He spoke, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast." 
Psalms33:10 The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nought; He makes the thoughts and plans of the peoples of no effect. 
Psalms33:11 The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the thoughts of His heart through all generations." 
Psalms33:12 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people He has chosen as His heritage." 
Psalms33:13 The Lord looks from heaven, He beholds all the sons of men;" 
Psalms33:14 From His dwelling place He looks [intently] upon all the inhabitants of the earth, 
Psalms33:15 He Who fashions the hearts of them all, Who considers all their doings." 
Psalms33:16 No king is saved by the great size and power of his army; a mighty man is not delivered by [his] much strength. 
Psalms33:17 A horse is devoid of value for victory; neither does he deliver any by his great power. 
Psalms33:18 Behold, the Lord's eye is upon those who fear Him [who revere and worship Him with awe], who wait for Him and hope in His mercy and loving-kindness," 
Psalms33:19 To deliver them from death and keep them alive in famine. 
Psalms33:20 Our inner selves wait [earnestly] for the Lord; He is our Help and our Shield. 
Psalms33:21 For in Him does our heart rejoice, because we have trusted (relied on and been confident) in His holy name." 
Psalms33:22 Let Your mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord, be upon us, in proportion to our waiting and hoping for You." 
Psalms34:1 [A Psalm] of David; when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, who drove him out, and he went away. I WILL bless the Lord at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth." 
Psalms34:2 My life makes its boast in the Lord; let the humble and afflicted hear and be glad. 
Psalms34:3 O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt His name together." 
Psalms34:4 I sought (inquired of) the Lord and required Him [of necessity and on the authority of His Word], and He heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. [Ps. 73:25; Matt. 7:7.]" 
Psalms34:5 They looked to Him and were radiant; their faces shall never blush for shame or be confused. 
Psalms34:6 This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles." 
Psalms34:7 The Angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear Him [who revere and worship Him with awe] and each of them He delivers. [Ps. 18:1; 145:20.] 
Psalms34:8 O taste and see that the Lord [our God] is good! Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who trusts and takes refuge in Him. [I Pet. 2:2, 3.]" 
Psalms34:9 O fear the Lord, you His saints [revere and worship Him]! For there is no want to those who truly revere and worship Him with godly fear." 
Psalms34:10 The young lions lack food and suffer hunger, but they who seek (inquire of and require) the Lord [by right of their need and on the authority of His Word], none of them shall lack any beneficial thing." 
Psalms34:11 Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you to revere and worshipfully fear the Lord." 
Psalms34:12 What man is he who desires life and longs for many days, that he may see good?" 
Psalms34:13 Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit. 
Psalms34:14 Depart from evil and do good; seek, inquire for, and crave peace and pursue (go after) it!" 
Psalms34:15 The eyes of the Lord are toward the [uncompromisingly] righteous and His ears are open to their cry. 
Psalms34:16 The face of the Lord is against those who do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. [I Pet. 3:10-12.]" 
Psalms34:17 When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears, and delivers them out of all their distress and troubles." 
Psalms34:18 The Lord is close to those who are of a broken heart and saves such as are crushed with sorrow for sin and are humbly and thoroughly penitent. 
Psalms34:19 Many evils confront the [consistently] righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all." 
Psalms34:20 He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken. 
Psalms34:21 Evil shall cause the death of the wicked; and they who hate the just and righteous shall be held guilty and shall be condemned. 
Psalms34:22 The Lord redeems the lives of His servants, and none of those who take refuge and trust in Him shall be condemned or held guilty." 
Psalms35:1 [A Psalm] of David. CONTEND, O Lord, with those who contend with me; fight against those who fight against me!" 
Psalms35:2 Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help!" 
Psalms35:3 Draw out also the spear and javelin and close up the way of those who pursue and persecute me. Say to me, I am your deliverance!" 
Psalms35:4 Let them be put to shame and dishonor who seek and require my life; let them be turned back and confounded who plan my hurt! 
Psalms35:5 Let them be as chaff before the wind, with the Angel of the Lord driving them on!" 
Psalms35:6 Let their way be through dark and slippery places, with the Angel of the Lord pursuing and afflicting them." 
Psalms35:7 For without cause they hid for me their net; a pit of destruction without cause they dug for my life. 
Psalms35:8 Let destruction befall [my foe] unawares; let the net he hid for me catch him; let him fall into that very destruction. 
Psalms35:9 Then I shall be joyful in the Lord; I shall rejoice in His deliverance. 
Psalms35:10 All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like You, You Who deliver the poor and the afflicted from him who is too strong for him, yes, the poor and the needy from him who snatches away his goods?" 
Psalms35:11 Malicious and unrighteous witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I know not. 
Psalms35:12 They reward me evil for good to my personal bereavement. 
Psalms35:13 But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I afflicted myself with fasting, and I prayed with head bowed on my breast." 
Psalms35:14 I behaved as if grieving for my friend or my brother; I bowed down in sorrow, as one who bewails his mother." 
Psalms35:15 But in my stumbling and limping they rejoiced and gathered together [against me]; the smiters (slanderers and revilers) gathered against me, and I knew them not; they ceased not to slander and revile me." 
Psalms35:16 Like profane mockers at feasts [making sport for the price of a cake] they gnashed at me with their teeth. 
Psalms35:17 Lord, how long will You look on [without action]? Rescue my life from their destructions, my dear and only life from the lions!" 
Psalms35:18 I will give You thanks in the great assembly; I will praise You among a mighty throng. 
Psalms35:19 Let not those who are wrongfully my foes rejoice over me; neither let them wink with the eye who hate me without cause. [John 15:24, 25.]" 
Psalms35:20 For they do not speak peace, but they devise deceitful matters against those who are quiet in the land." 
Psalms35:21 Yes, they open their mouths wide against me; they say, Aha! Aha! Our eyes have seen it!" 
Psalms35:22 You have seen this, O Lord; keep not silence! O Lord, be not far from me!" 
Psalms35:23 Arouse Yourself, awake to the justice due me, even to my cause, my God and my Lord!" 
Psalms35:24 Judge and vindicate me, O Lord my God, according to Your righteousness (Your rightness and justice); and let [my foes] not rejoice over me!" 
Psalms35:25 Let them not say in their hearts, Aha, that is what we wanted! Let them not say, We have swallowed him up and utterly destroyed him." 
Psalms35:26 Let them be put to shame and confusion together who rejoice at my calamity! Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify and exalt themselves over me! 
Psalms35:27 Let those who favor my righteous cause and have pleasure in my uprightness shout for joy and be glad and say continually, Let the Lord be magnified, Who takes pleasure in the prosperity of His servant." 
Psalms35:28 And my tongue shall talk of Your righteousness, rightness, and justice, and of [my reasons for] Your praise all the day long." 
Psalms36:1 To the Chief Musician. [A Psalm] of David the servant of the Lord. TRANSGRESSION [like an oracle] speaks to the wicked deep in his heart. There is no fear or dread of God before his eyes. [Rom. 3:18.] 
Psalms36:2 For he flatters and deceives himself in his own eyes that his iniquity will not be found out and be hated. 
Psalms36:3 The words of his mouth are wrong and deceitful; he has ceased to be wise and to do good. 
Psalms36:4 He plans wrongdoing on his bed; he sets himself in a way that is not good; he does not reject or despise evil. 
Psalms36:5 Your mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord, extend to the skies, and Your faithfulness to the clouds." 
Psalms36:6 Your righteousness is like the mountains of God, Your judgments are like the great deep. O Lord, You preserve man and beast." 
Psalms36:7 How precious is Your steadfast love, O God! The children of men take refuge and put their trust under the shadow of Your wings." 
Psalms36:8 They relish and feast on the abundance of Your house; and You cause them to drink of the stream of Your pleasures. 
Psalms36:9 For with You is the fountain of life; in Your light do we see light. [John 4:10, 14.]" 
Psalms36:10 O continue Your loving-kindness to those who know You, Your righteousness (salvation) to the upright in heart." 
Psalms36:11 Let not the foot of pride overtake me, and let not the hand of the wicked drive me away." 
Psalms36:12 There the workers of iniquity fall and lie prostrate; they are thrust down and shall not be able to rise. 
Psalms37:1 [A Psalm] of David. FRET NOT yourself because of evildoers, neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness (that which is not upright or in right standing with God)." 
Psalms37:2 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb." 
Psalms37:3 Trust (lean on, rely on, and be confident) in the Lord and do good; so shall you dwell in the land and feed surely on His faithfulness, and truly you shall be fed." 
Psalms37:4 Delight yourself also in the Lord, and He will give you the desires and secret petitions of your heart." 
Psalms37:5 Commit your way to the Lord [roll and repose each care of your load on Him]; trust (lean on, rely on, and be confident) also in Him and He will bring it to pass." 
Psalms37:6 And He will make your uprightness and right standing with God go forth as the light, and your justice and right as [the shining sun of] the noonday." 
Psalms37:7 Be still and rest in the Lord; wait for Him and patiently lean yourself upon Him; fret not yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass." 
Psalms37:8 Cease from anger and forsake wrath; fret not yourself,it tends only to evildoing. 
Psalms37:9 For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait and hope and look for the Lord [in the end] shall inherit the earth. [Isa. 57:13c.]" 
Psalms37:10 For yet a little while, and the evildoers will be no more; though you look with care where they used to be, they will not be found. [Heb. 10:36, 37; Rev. 21:7, 8.]" 
Psalms37:11 But the meek [in the end] shall inherit the earth and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. [Ps. 37:29; Matt. 5:5.] 
Psalms37:12 The wicked plot against the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright in right standing with God); they gnash at them with their teeth. 
Psalms37:13 The Lord laughs at [the wicked], for He sees that their own day [of defeat] is coming." 
Psalms37:14 The wicked draw the sword and bend their bows to cast down the poor and needy, to slay those who walk uprightly (blameless in conduct and in conversation)." 
Psalms37:15 The swords [of the wicked] shall enter their own hearts, and their bows shall be broken." 
Psalms37:16 Better is the little that the [uncompromisingly] righteous have than the abundance [of possessions] of many who are wrong and wicked. [I Tim. 6:6, 7.]" 
Psalms37:17 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the Lord upholds the [consistently] righteous." 
Psalms37:18 The Lord knows the days of the upright and blameless, and their heritage will abide forever." 
Psalms37:19 They shall not be put to shame in the time of evil; and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. 
Psalms37:20 But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be as the fat of lambs [that is consumed in smoke] and as the glory of the pastures. They shall vanish; like smoke shall they consume away." 
Psalms37:21 The wicked borrow and pay not again [for they may be unable], but the [uncompromisingly] righteous deal kindly and give [for they are able]." 
Psalms37:22 For such as are blessed of God shall [in the end] inherit the earth, but they that are cursed of Him shall be cut off. [Isa. 57:13c.]" 
Psalms37:23 The steps of a [good] man are directed and established by the Lord when He delights in his way [and He busies Himself with his every step]. 
Psalms37:24 Though he falls, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord grasps his hand in support and upholds him." 
Psalms37:25 I have been young and now am old, yet have I not seen the [uncompromisingly] righteous forsaken or their seed begging bread." 
Psalms37:26 All day long they are merciful and deal graciously; they lend, and their offspring are blessed." 
Psalms37:27 Depart from evil and do good; and you will dwell forever [securely]. 
Psalms37:28 For the Lord delights in justice and forsakes not His saints; they are preserved forever, but the offspring of the wicked [in time] shall be cut off." 
Psalms37:29 [Then] the [consistently] righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever. 
Psalms37:30 The mouth of the [uncompromisingly] righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks with justice." 
Psalms37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide. 
Psalms37:32 The wicked lie in wait for the [uncompromisingly] righteous and seek to put them to death. 
Psalms37:33 The Lord will not leave them in their hands, or [suffer them to] condemn them when they are judged." 
Psalms37:34 Wait for and expect the Lord and keep and heed His way, and He will exalt you to inherit the land; [in the end] when the wicked are cut off, you shall see it." 
Psalms37:35 I have seen a wicked man in great power and spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil," 
Psalms37:36 Yet he passed away, and behold, he was not; yes, I sought and inquired for him, but he could not be found." 
Psalms37:37 Mark the blameless man and behold the upright, for there is a happy end for the man of peace." 
Psalms37:38 As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together; in the end the wicked shall be cut off." 
Psalms37:39 But the salvation of the [consistently] righteous is of the Lord; He is their Refuge and secure Stronghold in the time of trouble. 
Psalms37:40 And the Lord helps them and delivers them; He delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they trust and take refuge in Him." 
Psalms38:1 A Psalm of David; to bring to remembrance and make memorial. O LORD, rebuke me not in Your wrath, neither chasten me in Your hot displeasure." 
Psalms38:2 For Your arrows have sunk into me and stick fast, and Your hand has come down upon me and pressed me sorely." 
Psalms38:3 There is no soundness in my flesh because of Your indignation; neither is there any health or rest in my bones because of my sin. 
Psalms38:4 For my iniquities have gone over my head [like waves of a flood]; as a heavy burden they weigh too much for me. 
Psalms38:5 My wounds are loathsome and corrupt because of my foolishness. 
Psalms38:6 I am bent and bowed down greatly; I go about mourning all the day long. 
Psalms38:7 For my loins are filled with burning; and there is no soundness in my flesh. 
Psalms38:8 I am faint and sorely bruised [deadly cold and quite worn out]; I groan by reason of the disquiet and moaning of my heart. 
Psalms38:9 Lord, all my desire is before You; and my sighing is not hidden from You." 
Psalms38:10 My heart throbs, my strength fails me; as for the light of my eyes, it also is gone from me." 
Psalms38:11 My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague; and my neighbors and my near ones stand afar off. [Luke 23:49.] 
Psalms38:12 They also that seek and demand my life lay snares for me, and they that seek and require my hurt speak crafty and mischievous things; they meditate treachery and deceit all the day long." 
Psalms38:13 But I, like a deaf man, hear not; and I am like a dumb man who opens not his mouth." 
Psalms38:14 Yes, I have become like a man who hears not, in whose mouth are no arguments or replies." 
Psalms38:15 For in You, O Lord, do I hope; You will answer, O Lord my God." 
Psalms38:16 For I pray, Let them not rejoice over me, who when my foot slips boast against me." 
Psalms38:17 For I am ready to halt and fall; my pain and sorrow are continually before me. 
Psalms38:18 For I do confess my guilt and iniquity; I am filled with sorrow for my sin. [II Cor. 7:9, 10.]" 
Psalms38:19 But my enemies are vigorous and strong, and those who hate me wrongfully are multiplied." 
Psalms38:20 They also that render evil for good are adversaries to me, because I follow the thing that is good." 
Psalms38:21 Forsake me not, O Lord; O my God, be not far from me." 
Psalms38:22 Make haste to help me, O Lord, my Salvation." 
Psalms39:1 To the Chief Musician; for Jeduthun [founder of an official musical family]. A Psalm of David. I SAID, I will take heed and guard my ways, that I may sin not with my tongue; I will muzzle my mouth as with a bridle while the wicked are before me." 
Psalms39:2 I was dumb with silence, I held my peace without profit and had no comfort away from good, while my distress was renewed." 
Psalms39:3 My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned; then I spoke with my tongue:" 
Psalms39:4 Lord, make me to know my end and [to appreciate] the measure of my days,what it is; let me know and realize how frail I am [how transient is my stay here]." 
Psalms39:5 Behold, You have made my days as [short as] handbreadths, and my lifetime is as nothing in Your sight. Truly every man at his best is merely a breath! Selah [pause, and think calmly of that]!" 
Psalms39:6 Surely every man walks to and fro,like a shadow in a pantomime; surely for futility and emptiness he is in turmoil; each one heaps up riches, not knowing who will gather them. [I Cor. 7:31; James 4:14.]" 
Psalms39:7 And now, Lord, what do I wait for and expect? My hope and expectation are in You." 
Psalms39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions; make me not the scorn and reproach of the [self-confident] fool! 
Psalms39:9 I am dumb, I open not my mouth, for it is You Who has done it." 
Psalms39:10 Remove Your stroke away from me; I am consumed by the conflict and the blow of Your hand. 
Psalms39:11 When with rebukes You correct and chasten man for sin, You waste his beauty like a moth and what is dear to him consumes away; surely every man is a mere breath. Selah [pause, and think calmly of that]!" 
Psalms39:12 Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry; hold not Your peace at my tears! For I am Your passing guest, a temporary resident, as all my fathers were." 
Psalms39:13 O look away from me and spare me, that I may recover cheerfulness and encouraging strength and know gladness before I go and am no more!" 
Psalms40:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. I WAITED patiently and expectantly for the Lord; and He inclined to me and heard my cry. 
Psalms40:2 He drew me up out of a horrible pit [a pit of tumult and of destruction], out of the miry clay (froth and slime), and set my feet upon a rock, steadying my steps and establishing my goings." 
Psalms40:3 And He has put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many shall see and fear (revere and worship) and put their trust and confident reliance in the Lord. [Ps. 5:11.]" 
Psalms40:4 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who makes the Lord his refuge and trust, and turns not to the proud or to followers of false gods." 
Psalms40:5 Many, O Lord my God, are the wonderful works which You have done, and Your thoughts toward us; no one can compare with You! If I should declare and speak of them, they are too many to be numbered." 
Psalms40:6 Sacrifice and offering You do not desire, nor have You delight in them; You have given me the capacity to hear and obey [Your law, a more valuable service than] burnt offerings and sin offerings [which] You do not require." 
Psalms40:7 Then said I, Behold, I come; in the volume of the book it is written of me;" 
Psalms40:8 I delight to do Your will, O my God; yes, Your law is within my heart. [Heb. 10:5-9.]" 
Psalms40:9 I have proclaimed glad tidings of righteousness in the great assembly [tidings of uprightness and right standing with God]. Behold, I have not restrained my lips, as You know, O Lord." 
Psalms40:10 I have not concealed Your righteousness within my heart; I have proclaimed Your faithfulness and Your salvation. I have not hid away Your steadfast love and Your truth from the great assembly. [Acts 20:20, 27.]" 
Psalms40:11 Withhold not Your tender mercy from me, O Lord; let Your loving-kindness and Your truth continually preserve me!" 
Psalms40:12 For innumerable evils have compassed me about; my iniquities have taken such hold on me that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart has failed me and forsaken me." 
Psalms40:13 Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me; O Lord, make haste to help me!" 
Psalms40:14 Let them be put to shame and confounded together who seek and require my life to destroy it; let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor who wish me evil and delight in my hurt! 
Psalms40:15 Let them be desolate by reason of their shame who say to me, Aha, aha!" 
Psalms40:16 Let all those that seek and require You rejoice and be glad in You; let such as love Your salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified!" 
Psalms40:17 [As for me] I am poor and needy, yet the Lord takes thought and plans for me. You are my Help and my Deliverer. O my God, do not tarry! [Ps. 70:1-5; I Pet. 5:7.]" 
Psalms41:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. BLESSED (HAPPY, fortunate, to be envied) is he who considers the weak and the poor; the Lord will deliver him in the time of evil and trouble." 
Psalms41:2 The Lord will protect him and keep him alive; he shall be called blessed in the land; and You will not deliver him to the will of his enemies. 
Psalms41:3 The Lord will sustain, refresh, and strengthen him on his bed of languishing; all his bed You [O Lord] will turn, change, and transform in his illness." 
Psalms41:4 I said, Lord, be merciful and gracious to me; heal my inner self, for I have sinned against You." 
Psalms41:5 My enemies speak evil of me, [saying], When will he die and his name perish?" 
Psalms41:6 And when one comes to see me, he speaks falsehood and empty words, while his heart gathers mischievous gossip [against me]; when he goes away, he tells it abroad." 
Psalms41:7 All who hate me whisper together about me; against me do they devise my hurt [imagining the worst for me]. 
Psalms41:8 An evil disease, say they, is poured out upon him and cleaves fast to him; and now that he is bedfast, he will not rise up again." 
Psalms41:9 Even my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted (relied on and was confident), who ate of my bread, has lifted up his heel against me. [John 13:18.]" 
Psalms41:10 But You, O Lord, be merciful and gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may requite them." 
Psalms41:11 By this I know that You favor and delight in me, because my enemy does not triumph over me." 
Psalms41:12 And as for me, You have upheld me in my integrity and set me in Your presence forever." 
Psalms41:13 Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting and to everlasting [from this age to the next, and forever]! Amen and Amen (so be it)." 
Psalms42:1 To the Chief Musician. A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of the sons of Korah. AS THE hart pants and longs for the water brooks, so I pant and long for You, O God." 
Psalms42:2 My inner self thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and behold the face of God? [John 7:37; I Thess. 1:9, 10.]" 
Psalms42:3 My tears have been my food day and night, while men say to me all day long, Where is your God?" 
Psalms42:4 These things I [earnestly] remember and pour myself out within me: how I went slowly before the throng and led them in procession to the house of God [like a bandmaster before his band, timing the steps to the sound of music and the chant of song], with the voice of shouting and praise, a throng keeping festival." 
Psalms42:5 Why are you cast down, O my inner self? And why should you moan over me and be disquieted within me? Hope in God and wait expectantly for Him, for I shall yet praise Him, my Help and my God." 
Psalms42:6 O my God, my life is cast down upon me [and I find the burden more than I can bear]; therefore will I [earnestly] remember You from the land of the Jordan [River] and the [summits of Mount] Hermon, from the little mountain Mizar." 
Psalms42:7 [Roaring] deep calls to [roaring] deep at the thunder of Your waterspouts; all Your breakers and Your rolling waves have gone over me. 
Psalms42:8 Yet the Lord will command His loving-kindness in the daytime, and in the night His song shall be with me, a prayer to the God of my life." 
Psalms42:9 I will say to God my Rock, Why have You forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" 
Psalms42:10 As with a sword [crushing] in my bones, my enemies taunt and reproach me, while they say continually to me, Where is your God?" 
Psalms42:11 Why are you cast down, O my inner self? And why should you moan over me and be disquieted within me? Hope in God and wait expectantly for Him, for I shall yet praise Him, Who is the help of my countenance, and my God." 
Psalms43:1 JUDGE and vindicate me, O God; plead and defend my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man!" 
Psalms43:2 For You are the God of my strength [my Stronghold,in Whom I take refuge]; why have You cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? 
Psalms43:3 O send out Your light and Your truth, let them lead me; let them bring me to Your holy hill and to Your dwelling." 
Psalms43:4 Then will I go to the altar of God, to God, my exceeding joy; yes, with the lyre will I praise You, O God, my God!" 
Psalms43:5 Why are you cast down, O my inner self? And why should you moan over me and be disquieted within me? Hope in God and wait expectantly for Him, for I shall yet praise Him, Who is the help of my [sad] countenance, and my God." 
Psalms44:1 To the Chief Musician. [A Psalm] of the sons of Korah. A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem. WE HAVE heard with our ears, O God; our fathers have told us [what] work You did in their days, in the days of old." 
Psalms44:2 You drove out the nations with Your hand and it was Your power that gave [Israel] a home by rooting out the [heathen] peoples, but [Israel] You spread out." 
Psalms44:3 For they got not the land [of Canaan] in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them; but Your right hand and Your arm and the light of Your countenance [did it], because You were favorable toward and did delight in them." 
Psalms44:4 You are my King, O God; command victories and deliverance for Jacob (Israel)." 
Psalms44:5 Through You shall we push down our enemies; through Your name shall we tread them under who rise up against us. 
Psalms44:6 For I will not trust in and lean on my bow, neither shall my sword save me." 
Psalms44:7 But You have saved us from our foes and have put them to shame who hate us. 
Psalms44:8 In God we have made our boast all the day long, and we will give thanks to Your name forever. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms44:9 But now You have cast us off and brought us to dishonor, and You go not out with our armies." 
Psalms44:10 You make us to turn back from the enemy, and they who hate us take spoil for themselves." 
Psalms44:11 You have made us like sheep intended for mutton and have scattered us in exile among the nations. 
Psalms44:12 You sell Your people for nothing, and have not increased Your wealth by their price." 
Psalms44:13 You have made us the taunt of our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are round about us." 
Psalms44:14 You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the heads among the people." 
Psalms44:15 My dishonor is before me all day long, and shame has covered my face" 
Psalms44:16 At the words of the taunter and reviler, by reason of the enemy and the revengeful." 
Psalms44:17 All this is come upon us, yet have we not forgotten You, neither have we been false to Your covenant [which You made with our fathers]." 
Psalms44:18 Our hearts are not turned back, neither have our steps declined from Your path," 
Psalms44:19 Though You have distressingly broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with deep darkness, even with the shadow of death." 
Psalms44:20 If we had forgotten the name of our God or stretched out our hands to a strange god," 
Psalms44:21 Would not God discover this? For He knows the secrets of the heart. 
Psalms44:22 No, but for Your sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. [Rom. 8:35-39.]" 
Psalms44:23 Awake! Why do You sleep, O Lord? Arouse Yourself, cast us not off forever!" 
Psalms44:24 Why do You hide Your face and forget our affliction and our oppression? 
Psalms44:25 For our lives are bowed down to the dust; our bodies cleave to the ground. 
Psalms44:26 Rise up! Come to our help, and deliver us for Your mercy's sake and because of Your steadfast love!" 
Psalms45:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Lilies [probably a popular air. A Psalm] of the sons of Korah. A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem. A song of love. MY HEART overflows with a goodly theme; I address my psalm to a King. My tongue is like the pen of a ready writer." 
Psalms45:2 You are fairer than the children of men; graciousness is poured upon Your lips; therefore God has blessed You forever. 
Psalms45:3 Gird Your sword upon Your thigh, O mighty One, in Your glory and Your majesty!" 
Psalms45:4 And in Your majesty ride on triumphantly for the cause of truth, humility, and righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God); and let Your right hand guide You to tremendous things." 
Psalms45:5 Your arrows are sharp; the peoples fall under You; Your darts pierce the hearts of the King's enemies. 
Psalms45:6 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; the scepter of righteousness is the scepter of Your kingdom." 
Psalms45:7 You love righteousness, uprightness, and right standing with God and hate wickedness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of gladness above Your fellows. [Heb. 1:8, 9.]" 
Psalms45:8 Your garments are all fragrant with myrrh, aloes, and cassia; stringed instruments make You glad." 
Psalms45:9 Kings' daughters are among Your honorable women; at Your right hand stands the queen in gold of Ophir. 
Psalms45:10 Hear, O daughter, consider, submit, and consent to my instruction: forget also your own people and your father's house;" 
Psalms45:11 So will the King desire your beauty; because He is your Lord, be submissive and reverence and honor Him." 
Psalms45:12 And, O daughter of Tyre, the richest of the people shall entreat your favor with a gift." 
Psalms45:13 The King's daughter in the inner part [of the palace] is all glorious; her clothing is inwrought with gold. [Rev. 19:7, 8.]" 
Psalms45:14 She shall be brought to the King in raiment of needlework; with the virgins, her companions that follow her, she shall be brought to You." 
Psalms45:15 With gladness and rejoicing will they be brought; they will enter into the King's palace. 
Psalms45:16 Instead of Your fathers shall be Your sons, whom You will make princes in all the land." 
Psalms45:17 I will make Your name to be remembered in all generations; therefore shall the people praise and give You thanks forever and ever. 
Psalms46:1 To the Chief Musician. [A Psalm] of the sons of Korah, set to treble voices. A song. GOD IS our Refuge and Strength [mighty and impenetrable to temptation], a very present and well-proved help in trouble." 
Psalms46:2 Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change and though the mountains be shaken into the midst of the seas," 
Psalms46:3 Though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling and tumult. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms46:4 There is a river whose streams shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High." 
Psalms46:5 God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved; God will help her right early [at the dawn of the morning]." 
Psalms46:6 The nations raged, the kingdoms tottered and were moved; He uttered His voice, the earth melted." 
Psalms46:7 The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our Refuge (our Fortress and High Tower). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms46:8 Come, behold the works of the Lord, Who has wrought desolations and wonders in the earth." 
Psalms46:9 He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow into pieces and snaps the spear in two; He burns the chariots in the fire. 
Psalms46:10 Let be and be still, and know (recognize and understand) that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations! I will be exalted in the earth!" 
Psalms46:11 The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our Refuge (our High Tower and Stronghold). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms47:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. O CLAP your hands, all you peoples! Shout to God with the voice of triumph and songs of joy!" 
Psalms47:2 For the Lord Most High excites terror, awe, and dread; He is a great King over all the earth." 
Psalms47:3 He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet." 
Psalms47:4 He chose our inheritance for us, the glory and pride of Jacob, whom He loves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [I Pet. 1:4, 5.]" 
Psalms47:5 God has ascended amid shouting, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet." 
Psalms47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!" 
Psalms47:7 For God is the King of all the earth; sing praises in a skillful psalm and with understanding. 
Psalms47:8 God reigns over the nations; God sits upon His holy throne. 
Psalms47:9 The princes and nobles of the peoples are gathered together, a [united] people for the God of Abraham, for the shields of the earth belong to God; He is highly exalted." 
Psalms48:1 A song; a Psalm of the sons of Korah. GREAT IS the Lord, and highly to be praised in the city of our God! His holy mountain," 
Psalms48:2 Fair and beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth,Mount Zion [the City of David], to the northern side [Mount Moriah and the temple], the [whole] city of the Great King! [Matt. 5:35.]" 
Psalms48:3 God has made Himself known in her palaces as a Refuge (a High Tower and a Stronghold). 
Psalms48:4 For, behold, the kings assembled, they came onward and they passed away together." 
Psalms48:5 They looked, they were amazed; they were stricken with terror and took to flight [affrighted and dismayed]." 
Psalms48:6 Trembling took hold of them there, and pain as of a woman in childbirth." 
Psalms48:7 With the east wind You shattered the ships of Tarshish. 
Psalms48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it forever. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms48:9 We have thought of Your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of Your temple." 
Psalms48:10 As is Your name, O God, so is Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your right hand is full of righteousness (rightness and justice)." 
Psalms48:11 Let Mount Zion be glad! Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of Your [righteous] judgments! 
Psalms48:12 Walk about Zion, and go round about her, number her towers (her lofty and noble deeds of past days)," 
Psalms48:13 Consider well her ramparts, go through her palaces and citadels, that you may tell the next generation [and cease recalling disappointments]." 
Psalms48:14 For this God is our God forever and ever; He will be our guide [even] until death. 
Psalms49:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. HEAR THIS, all you peoples; give ear, all you inhabitants of the world," 
Psalms49:2 Both low and high, rich and poor together:" 
Psalms49:3 My mouth shall speak wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be understanding. 
Psalms49:4 I will submit and consent to a parable or proverb; to the music of a lyre I will unfold my riddle (my problem). 
Psalms49:5 Why should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of those who would supplant me surrounds me on every side," 
Psalms49:6 Even of those who trust in and lean on their wealth and boast of the abundance of their riches? 
Psalms49:7 None of them can by any means redeem [either himself or] his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him," 
Psalms49:8 For the ransom of a life is too costly, and [the price one can pay] can never suffice," 
Psalms49:9 So that he should live on forever and never see the pit (the grave) and corruption. 
Psalms49:10 For he sees that even wise men die; the [self-confident] fool and the stupid alike perish and leave their wealth to others. 
Psalms49:11 Their inward thought is that their houses will continue forever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands their own [apart from God] and after their own names." 
Psalms49:12 But man, with all his honor and pomp, does not remain; he is like the beasts that perish." 
Psalms49:13 This is the fate of those who are foolishly confident, yet after them men approve their sayings. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms49:14 Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol (the place of the dead); death shall be their shepherd. And the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their form and beauty shall be consumed, for Sheol shall be their dwelling." 
Psalms49:15 But God will redeem me from the power of Sheol (the place of the dead); for He will receive me. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms49:16 Be not afraid when [an ungodly] one is made rich, when the wealth and glory of his house are increased;" 
Psalms49:17 For when he dies he will carry nothing away; his glory will not descend after him. 
Psalms49:18 Though while he lives he counts himself happy and prosperous, and though a man gets praise when he does well [for himself]," 
Psalms49:19 He will go to the generation of his fathers, who will nevermore see the light." 
Psalms49:20 A man who is held in honor and understands not is like the beasts that perish. 
Psalms50:1 A Psalm of Asaph. THE MIGHTY One, God, the Lord, speaks and calls the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting." 
Psalms50:2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth." 
Psalms50:3 Our God comes and does not keep silence; a fire devours before Him, and round about Him a mighty tempest rages." 
Psalms50:4 He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that He may judge His people:" 
Psalms50:5 Gather together to Me My saints [those who have found grace in My sight], those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice." 
Psalms50:6 And the heavens declare His righteousness (rightness and justice), for God, He is judge. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms50:7 Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify to you and against you: I am God, your God." 
Psalms50:8 I do not reprove you for your sacrifices; your burnt offerings are continually before Me. 
Psalms50:9 I will accept no bull from your house nor he-goat out of your folds. 
Psalms50:10 For every beast of the forest is Mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills or upon the mountains where thousands are." 
Psalms50:11 I know and am acquainted with all the birds of the mountains, and the wild animals of the field are Mine and are with Me, in My mind." 
Psalms50:12 If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are Mine. [I Cor. 10:26.]" 
Psalms50:13 Shall I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 
Psalms50:14 Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and pay your vows to the Most High," 
Psalms50:15 And call on Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall honor and glorify Me." 
Psalms50:16 But to the wicked, God says: What right have you to recite My statutes or take My covenant or pledge on your lips," 
Psalms50:17 Seeing that you hate instruction and correction and cast My words behind you [discarding them]? 
Psalms50:18 When you see a thief, you associate with him, and you have taken part with adulterers." 
Psalms50:19 You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit." 
Psalms50:20 You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son. 
Psalms50:21 These things you have done and I kept silent; you thought I was once entirely like you. But [now] I will reprove you and put [the charge] in order before your eyes. 
Psalms50:22 Now consider this, you who forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver." 
Psalms50:23 He who brings an offering of praise and thanksgiving honors and glorifies Me; and he who orders his way aright [who prepares the way that I may show him], to him I will demonstrate the salvation of God." 
Psalms51:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David; when Nathan the prophet came to him after he had sinned with Bathsheba. HAVE MERCY upon me, O God, according to Your steadfast love; according to the multitude of Your tender mercy and loving-kindness blot out my transgressions." 
Psalms51:2 Wash me thoroughly [and repeatedly] from my iniquity and guilt and cleanse me and make me wholly pure from my sin! 
Psalms51:3 For I am conscious of my transgressions and I acknowledge them; my sin is ever before me. 
Psalms51:4 Against You, You only, have I sinned and done that which is evil in Your sight, so that You are justified in Your sentence and faultless in Your judgment. [Rom. 3:4.]" 
Psalms51:5 Behold, I was brought forth in [a state of] iniquity; my mother was sinful who conceived me [and I too am sinful]. [John 3:6; Rom. 5:12; Eph. 2:3.]" 
Psalms51:6 Behold, You desire truth in the inner being; make me therefore to know wisdom in my inmost heart." 
Psalms51:7 Purify me with hyssop, and I shall be clean [ceremonially]; wash me, and I shall [in reality] be whiter than snow." 
Psalms51:8 Make me to hear joy and gladness and be satisfied; let the bones which You have broken rejoice. 
Psalms51:9 Hide Your face from my sins and blot out all my guilt and iniquities. 
Psalms51:10 Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right, persevering, and steadfast spirit within me." 
Psalms51:11 Cast me not away from Your presence and take not Your Holy Spirit from me. 
Psalms51:12 Restore to me the joy of Your salvation and uphold me with a willing spirit. 
Psalms51:13 Then will I teach transgressors Your ways, and sinners shall be converted and return to You." 
Psalms51:14 Deliver me from bloodguiltiness and death, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of Your righteousness (Your rightness and Your justice)." 
Psalms51:15 O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth shall show forth Your praise." 
Psalms51:16 For You delight not in sacrifice, or else would I give it; You find no pleasure in burnt offering. [I Sam. 15:22.]" 
Psalms51:17 My sacrifice [the sacrifice acceptable] to God is a broken spirit; a broken and a contrite heart [broken down with sorrow for sin and humbly and thoroughly penitent], such, O God, You will not despise." 
Psalms51:18 Do good in Your good pleasure to Zion; rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. 
Psalms51:19 Then will You delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, justice, and right, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering; then bullocks will be offered upon Your altar." 
Psalms52:1 To the Chief Musician. A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem. [A Psalm] of David, when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. WHY BOAST you of mischief done against the loving-kindness of God [and the godly], O mighty [sinful] man, day after day?" 
Psalms52:2 Your tongue devises wickedness; it is like a sharp razor, working deceitfully." 
Psalms52:3 You love evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness, justice, and right. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms52:4 You love all destroying and devouring words, O deceitful tongue." 
Psalms52:5 God will likewise break you down and destroy you forever; He will lay hold of you and pluck you out of your tent and uproot you from the land of the living. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms52:6 The [uncompromisingly] righteous also shall see [it] and be in reverent fear and awe, but about you they will [scoffingly] laugh, saying," 
Psalms52:7 See, this is the man who made not God his strength (his stronghold and high tower) but trusted in and confidently relied on the abundance of his riches, seeking refuge and security for himself through his wickedness." 
Psalms52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust in and confidently rely on the loving-kindness and the mercy of God forever and ever. 
Psalms52:9 I will thank You and confide in You forever, because You have done it [delivered me and kept me safe]. I will wait on, hope in and expect in Your name, for it is good, in the presence of Your saints (Your kind and pious ones)." 
Psalms53:1 To the Chief Musician; in a mournful strain. A skillful song, or didactic or reflective poem of David. THE [empty-headed] fool has said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt and evil are they, and doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good." 
Psalms53:2 God looked down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there were any who understood, who sought (inquired after and desperately required) God." 
Psalms53:3 Every one of them has gone back [backslidden and fallen away]; they have altogether become filthy and corrupt; there is none who does good, no, not one. [Rom. 3:10-12.]" 
Psalms53:4 Have those who work evil no knowledge (no understanding)? They eat up My people as they eat bread; they do not call upon God. 
Psalms53:5 There they are, in terror and dread, where there was [and had been] no terror and dread! For God has scattered the bones of him who encamps against you; you have put them to shame, because God has rejected them." 
Psalms53:6 Oh, that the salvation and deliverance of Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores the fortunes of His people, then will Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad." 
Psalms54:1 To the Chief Musician; with stringed instruments. A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of David, when the Ziphites went and told Saul, David is hiding among us. SAVE ME, O God, by Your name; judge and vindicate me by Your mighty strength and power." 
Psalms54:2 Hear my pleading and my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth." 
Psalms54:3 For strangers and insolent men are rising up against me, and violent men and ruthless ones seek and demand my life; they do not set God before them. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms54:4 Behold, God is my helper and ally; the Lord is my upholder and is with them who uphold my life." 
Psalms54:5 He will pay back evil to my enemies; in Your faithfulness [Lord] put an end to them. 
Psalms54:6 With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to You; I will give thanks and praise Your name, O Lord, for it is good." 
Psalms54:7 For He has delivered me out of every trouble, and my eye has looked [in triumph] on my enemies." 
Psalms55:1 To the Chief Musician; with stringed instruments. A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of David. LISTEN TO my prayer, O God, and hide not Yourself from my supplication!" 
Psalms55:2 Attend to me and answer me; I am restless and distraught in my complaint and must moan 
Psalms55:3 [And I am distracted] at the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression and threats of the wicked; for they would cast trouble upon me, and in wrath they persecute me." 
Psalms55:4 My heart is grievously pained within me, and the terrors of death have fallen upon me." 
Psalms55:5 Fear and trembling have come upon me; horror and fright have overwhelmed me. 
Psalms55:6 And I say, Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest." 
Psalms55:7 Yes, I would wander far away, I would lodge in the wilderness. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms55:8 I would hasten to escape and to find a shelter from the stormy wind and tempest. 
Psalms55:9 Destroy [their schemes], O Lord, confuse their tongues, for I have seen violence and strife in the city." 
Psalms55:10 Day and night they go about on its walls; iniquity and mischief are in its midst. 
Psalms55:11 Violence and ruin are within it; fraud and guile do not depart from its streets and marketplaces. 
Psalms55:12 For it is not an enemy who reproaches and taunts me,then I might bear it; nor is it one who has hated me who insolently vaunts himself against me,then I might hide from him. 
Psalms55:13 But it was you, a man my equal, my companion and my familiar friend." 
Psalms55:14 We had sweet fellowship together and used to walk to the house of God in company. 
Psalms55:15 Let desolations and death come suddenly upon them; let them go down alive to Sheol (the place of the dead), for evils are in their habitations, in their hearts, and their inmost part." 
Psalms55:16 As for me, I will call upon God, and the Lord will save me." 
Psalms55:17 Evening and morning and at noon will I utter my complaint and moan and sigh, and He will hear my voice." 
Psalms55:18 He has redeemed my life in peace from the battle that was against me [so that none came near me], for they were many who strove with me." 
Psalms55:19 God will hear and humble them, even He Who abides of old,Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!,because in them there has been no change [of heart], and they do not fear, revere, and worship God." 
Psalms55:20 [My companion] has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; he has broken and profaned his agreement [of friendship and loyalty]. 
Psalms55:21 The words of his mouth were smoother than cream or butter, but war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords." 
Psalms55:22 Cast your burden on the Lord [releasing the weight of it] and He will sustain you; He will never allow the [consistently] righteous to be moved (made to slip, fall, or fail). [I Pet. 5:7.]" 
Psalms55:23 But You, O God, will bring down the wicked into the pit of destruction; men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days. But I will trust in, lean on, and confidently rely on You." 
Psalms56:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Silent Dove Among Those Far Away. Of David. A record of memorable thoughts when the Philistines seized him in Gath. BE MERCIFUL and gracious to me, O God, for man would trample me or devour me; all the day long the adversary oppresses me." 
Psalms56:2 They that lie in wait for me would swallow me up or trample me all day long, for they are many who fight against me, O Most High!" 
Psalms56:3 What time I am afraid, I will have confidence in and put my trust and reliance in You." 
Psalms56:4 By [the help of] God I will praise His word; on God I lean, rely, and confidently put my trust; I will not fear. What can man, who is flesh, do to me?" 
Psalms56:5 All day long they twist my words and trouble my affairs; all their thoughts are against me for evil and my hurt. 
Psalms56:6 They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they watch my steps, even as they have [expectantly] waited for my life." 
Psalms56:7 They think to escape with iniquity, and shall they? In Your indignation bring down the peoples, O God." 
Psalms56:8 You number and record my wanderings; put my tears into Your bottle,are they not in Your book? 
Psalms56:9 Then shall my enemies turn back in the day that I cry out; this I know, for God is for me. [Rom. 8:31.]" 
Psalms56:10 In God, Whose word I praise, in the Lord, Whose word I praise," 
Psalms56:11 In God have I put my trust and confident reliance; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? 
Psalms56:12 Your vows are upon me, O God; I will render praise to You and give You thank offerings." 
Psalms56:13 For You have delivered my life from death, yes, and my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life and of the living." 
Psalms57:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Do Not Destroy. A record of memorable thoughts of David when he fled from Saul in the cave. BE MERCIFUL and gracious to me, O God, be merciful and gracious to me, for my soul takes refuge and finds shelter and confidence in You; yes, in the shadow of Your wings will I take refuge and be confident until calamities and destructive storms are passed." 
Psalms57:2 I will cry to God Most High, Who performs on my behalf and rewards me [Who brings to pass His purposes for me and surely completes them]!" 
Psalms57:3 He will send from heaven and save me from the slanders and reproaches of him who would trample me down or swallow me up, and He will put him to shame. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! God will send forth His mercy and loving-kindness and His truth and faithfulness." 
Psalms57:4 My life is among lions; I must lie among those who are aflame,the sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows, their tongues sharp swords." 
Psalms57:5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let Your glory be over all the earth!" 
Psalms57:6 They set a net for my steps; my very life was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way; into the midst of it they themselves have fallen. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms57:7 My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is steadfast and confident! I will sing and make melody." 
Psalms57:8 Awake, my glory (my inner self); awake, harp and lyre! I will awake right early [I will awaken the dawn]!" 
Psalms57:9 I will praise and give thanks to You, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to You among the nations." 
Psalms57:10 For Your mercy and loving-kindness are great, reaching to the heavens, and Your truth and faithfulness to the clouds." 
Psalms57:11 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; let Your glory be over all the earth." 
Psalms58:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Do Not Destroy. A record of memorable thoughts of David. DO YOU indeed in silence speak righteousness, O you mighty ones? [Or is the righteousness, rightness, and justice you should speak quite dumb?] Do you judge fairly and uprightly, O you sons of men?" 
Psalms58:2 No, in your heart you devise wickedness; you deal out in the land the violence of your hands." 
Psalms58:3 The ungodly are perverse and estranged from the womb; they go astray as soon as they are born, speaking lies." 
Psalms58:4 Their poison is like the venom of a serpent; they are like the deaf adder or asp that stops its ear," 
Psalms58:5 Which listens not to the voice of charmers or of the enchanter never casting spells so cunningly. 
Psalms58:6 Break their teeth, O God, in their mouths; break out the fangs of the young lions, O Lord." 
Psalms58:7 Let them melt away as water which runs on apace; when he aims his arrows, let them be as if they were headless or split apart." 
Psalms58:8 Let them be as a snail dissolving slime as it passes on or as a festering sore which wastes away, like [the child to which] a woman gives untimely birth that has not seen the sun." 
Psalms58:9 Before your pots can feel the thorns [that are placed under them for fuel], He will take them away as with a whirlwind, the green and the burning ones alike." 
Psalms58:10 The [unyieldingly] righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance; he will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked. 
Psalms58:11 Men will say, Surely there is a reward for the [uncompromisingly] righteous; surely there is a God Who judges on the earth." 
Psalms59:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Do Not Destroy. Of David, a record of memorable thoughts when Saul sent men to watch his house in order to kill him. DELIVER ME from my enemies, O my God; defend and protect me from those who rise up against me." 
Psalms59:2 Deliver me from and lift me above those who work evil and save me from bloodthirsty men. 
Psalms59:3 For, behold, they lie in wait for my life; fierce and mighty men are banding together against me, not for my transgression nor for any sin of mine, O Lord." 
Psalms59:4 They run and prepare themselves, though there is no fault in me; rouse Yourself [O Lord] to meet and help me, and see!" 
Psalms59:5 You, O Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel, arise to visit all the nations; spare none and be not merciful to any who treacherously plot evil. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms59:6 They return at evening, they howl and snarl like dogs, and go [prowling] about the city." 
Psalms59:7 Behold, they belch out [insults] with their mouths; swords [of sarcasm, ridicule, slander, and lies] are in their lips, for who, they think, hears us?" 
Psalms59:8 But You, O Lord, will laugh at them [in scorn]; You will hold all the nations in derision." 
Psalms59:9 O my Strength, I will watch and give heed to You and sing praises; for God is my Defense (my Protector and High Tower)." 
Psalms59:10 My God in His mercy and steadfast love will meet me; God will let me look [triumphantly] on my enemies (those who lie in wait for me). 
Psalms59:11 Slay them not, lest my people forget; scatter them by Your power and make them wander to and fro, and bring them down, O Lord our Shield!" 
Psalms59:12 For the sin of their mouths and the words of their lips, let them even be trapped and taken in their pride, and for the cursing and lying which they utter." 
Psalms59:13 Consume them in wrath, consume them so that they shall be no more; and let them know unto the ends of the earth that God rules over Jacob (Israel). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms59:14 And at evening let them return; let them howl and snarl like dogs, and go prowling about the city." 
Psalms59:15 Let them wander up and down for food and tarry all night if they are not satisfied (not getting their fill). 
Psalms59:16 But I will sing of Your mighty strength and power; yes, I will sing aloud of Your mercy and loving-kindness in the morning; for You have been to me a defense (a fortress and a high tower) and a refuge in the day of my distress." 
Psalms59:17 Unto You, O my Strength, I will sing praises; for God is my Defense, my Fortress, and High Tower, the God Who shows me mercy and steadfast love." 
Psalms60:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``The Lily of the Testimony. A poem of David intended to record memorable thoughts and to teach; when he had striven with the Arameans of Mesopotamia and the Arameans of Zobah, and when Joab returned and smote twelve thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt. O GOD, You have rejected us and cast us off, broken down [our defenses], and scattered us; You have been angry,O restore us and turn Yourself to us again!" 
Psalms60:2 You have made the land to quake and tremble, You have rent it [open]; repair its breaches, for it shakes and totters." 
Psalms60:3 You have made Your people suffer hard things; You have given us to drink wine that makes us reel and be dazed. 
Psalms60:4 [But now] You have set up a banner for those who fear and worshipfully revere You [to which they may flee from the bow], a standard displayed because of the truth. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms60:5 That Your beloved ones may be delivered, save with Your right hand and answer us [or me]." 
Psalms60:6 God has spoken in His holiness [in His promises]: I will rejoice, I will divide and portion out [the land] Shechem and the Valley of Succoth [west to east]." 
Psalms60:7 Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is My helmet (the defense of My head); Judah is My scepter and My lawgiver." 
Psalms60:8 Moab is My washpot [reduced to vilest servitude]; upon Edom I cast My shoe in triumph; over Philistia I raise the shout of victory. 
Psalms60:9 Who will bring me [David] into the strong city [of Petra]? Who will lead me into Edom? 
Psalms60:10 Have You not rejected us, O God? And will You not go forth, O God, with our armies?" 
Psalms60:11 O give us help against the adversary, for vain (ineffectual and to no purpose) is the help or salvation of man." 
Psalms60:12 Through God we shall do valiantly, for He it is Who shall tread down our adversaries." 
Psalms61:1 To the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments. [A Psalm] of David. HEAR MY cry, O God; listen to my prayer." 
Psalms61:2 From the end of the earth will I cry to You, when my heart is overwhelmed and fainting; lead me to the rock that is higher than I [yes, a rock that is too high for me]." 
Psalms61:3 For You have been a shelter and a refuge for me, a strong tower against the adversary." 
Psalms61:4 I will dwell in Your tabernacle forever; let me find refuge and trust in the shelter of Your wings. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms61:5 For You, O God, have heard my vows; You have given me the heritage of those who fear, revere, and honor Your name." 
Psalms61:6 May You prolong the [true] King's life [adding days upon days], and may His years be to the last generation [of this world and the generations of the world to come]." 
Psalms61:7 May He sit enthroned forever before [the face of] God; O ordain that loving-kindness and faithfulness may watch over Him! 
Psalms61:8 So will I sing praise to Your name forever, paying my vows day by day." 
Psalms62:1 To the Chief Musician; according to Jeduthun [Ethan, the noted musician, founder of an official musical family]. A Psalm of David. FOR GOD alone my soul waits in silence; from Him comes my salvation." 
Psalms62:2 He only is my Rock and my Salvation, my Defense and my Fortress, I shall not be greatly moved." 
Psalms62:3 How long will you set upon a man that you may slay him, all of you, like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence?" 
Psalms62:4 They only consult to cast him down from his height [to dishonor him]; they delight in lies. They bless with their mouths, but they curse inwardly. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms62:5 My soul, wait only upon God and silently submit to Him; for my hope and expectation are from Him." 
Psalms62:6 He only is my Rock and my Salvation; He is my Defense and my Fortress, I shall not be moved." 
Psalms62:7 With God rests my salvation and my glory; He is my Rock of unyielding strength and impenetrable hardness, and my refuge is in God!" 
Psalms62:8 Trust in, lean on, rely on, and have confidence in Him at all times, you people; pour out your hearts before Him. God is a refuge for us (a fortress and a high tower). Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms62:9 Men of low degree [in the social scale] are emptiness (futility, a breath) and men of high degree [in the same scale] are a lie and a delusion. In the balances they go up; they are together lighter than a breath." 
Psalms62:10 Trust not in and rely confidently not on extortion and oppression, and do not vainly hope in robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them." 
Psalms62:11 God has spoken once, twice have I heard this: that power belongs to God." 
Psalms62:12 Also to You, O Lord, belong mercy and loving-kindness, for You render to every man according to his work. [Jer. 17:10; Rev. 22:12.]" 
Psalms63:1 A Psalm of David; when he was in the Wilderness of Judah. O GOD, You are my God, earnestly will I seek You; my inner self thirsts for You, my flesh longs and is faint for You, in a dry and weary land where no water is." 
Psalms63:2 So I have looked upon You in the sanctuary to see Your power and Your glory. 
Psalms63:3 Because Your loving-kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise You." 
Psalms63:4 So will I bless You while I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. 
Psalms63:5 My whole being shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise You with joyful lips 
Psalms63:6 When I remember You upon my bed and meditate on You in the night watches. 
Psalms63:7 For You have been my help, and in the shadow of Your wings will I rejoice." 
Psalms63:8 My whole being follows hard after You and clings closely to You; Your right hand upholds me. 
Psalms63:9 But those who seek and demand my life to ruin and destroy it shall [themselves be destroyed and] go into the lower parts of the earth [into the underworld of the dead]. 
Psalms63:10 They shall be given over to the power of the sword; they shall be a prey for foxes and jackals. 
Psalms63:11 But the king shall rejoice in God; everyone who swears by Him [that is, who binds himself by God's authority, acknowledging His supremacy, and devoting himself to His glory and service alone; every such one] shall glory, for the mouths of those who speak lies shall be stopped." 
Psalms64:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. HEAR MY voice, O God, in my complaint; guard and preserve my life from the terror of the enemy." 
Psalms64:2 Hide me from the secret counsel and conspiracy of the ungodly, from the scheming of evildoers," 
Psalms64:3 Who whet their tongues like a sword, who aim venomous words like arrows," 
Psalms64:4 Who shoot from ambush at the blameless man; suddenly do they shoot at him, without self-reproach or fear." 
Psalms64:5 They encourage themselves in an evil purpose, they talk of laying snares secretly; they say, Who will discover us?" 
Psalms64:6 They think out acts of injustice and say, We have accomplished a well-devised thing! For the inward thought of each one [is unsearchable] and his heart is deep." 
Psalms64:7 But God will shoot an unexpected arrow at them; and suddenly shall they be wounded. 
Psalms64:8 And they will be made to stumble, their own tongues turning against them; all who gaze upon them will shake their heads and flee away." 
Psalms64:9 And all men shall [reverently] fear and be in awe; and they will declare the work of God, for they will wisely consider and acknowledge that it is His doing." 
Psalms64:10 The [uncompromisingly] righteous shall be glad in the Lord and shall trust and take refuge in Him; and all the upright in heart shall glory and offer praise. 
Psalms65:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. A song. TO YOU belongs silence (the submissive wonder of reverence which bursts forth into praise) and praise is due and fitting to You, O God, in Zion; and to You shall the vow be performed." 
Psalms65:2 O You Who hear prayer, to You shall all flesh come." 
Psalms65:3 Iniquities and much varied guilt prevail against me; [yet] as for our transgressions, You forgive and purge them away [make atonement for them and cover them out of Your sight]!" 
Psalms65:4 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man whom You choose and cause to come near, that he may dwell in Your courts! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of Your house, Your holy temple." 
Psalms65:5 By fearful and glorious things [that terrify the wicked but make the godly sing praises] do You answer us in righteousness (rightness and justice), O God of our salvation, You Who are the confidence and hope of all the ends of the earth and of those far off on the seas;" 
Psalms65:6 Who by [Your] might have founded the mountains, being girded with power," 
Psalms65:7 Who still the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, and the tumult of the peoples," 
Psalms65:8 So that those who dwell in earth's farthest parts are afraid of [nature's] signs of Your presence. You make the places where morning and evening have birth to shout for joy. 
Psalms65:9 You visit the earth and saturate it with water; You greatly enrich it; the river of God is full of water; You provide them with grain when You have so prepared the earth. 
Psalms65:10 You water the field's furrows abundantly, You settle the ridges of it; You make the soil soft with showers, blessing the sprouting of its vegetation." 
Psalms65:11 You crown the year with Your bounty and goodness, and the tracks of Your [chariot wheels] drip with fatness." 
Psalms65:12 The [luxuriant] pastures in the uncultivated country drip [with moisture], and the hills gird themselves with joy." 
Psalms65:13 The meadows are clothed with flocks, the valleys also are covered with grain; they shout for joy and sing together." 
Psalms66:1 To the Chief Musician. A song. A Psalm. MAKE A joyful noise unto God, all the earth;" 
Psalms66:2 Sing forth the honor and glory of His name; make His praise glorious! 
Psalms66:3 Say to God, How awesome and fearfully glorious are Your works! Through the greatness of Your power shall Your enemies submit themselves to You [with feigned and reluctant obedience]." 
Psalms66:4 All the earth shall bow down to You and sing [praises] to You; they shall praise Your name in song. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms66:5 Come and see the works of God; see how [to save His people He smites their foes; He is] terrible in His doings toward the children of men. 
Psalms66:6 He turned the sea into dry land, they crossed through the river on foot; there did we rejoice in Him." 
Psalms66:7 He rules by His might forever, His eyes observe and keep watch over the nations; let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms66:8 Bless our God, O peoples, give Him grateful thanks and make the voice of His praise be heard," 
Psalms66:9 Who put and kept us among the living, and has not allowed our feet to slip." 
Psalms66:10 For You, O God, have proved us; You have tried us as silver is tried, refined, and purified." 
Psalms66:11 You brought us into the net (the prison fortress, the dungeon); You laid a heavy burden upon our loins." 
Psalms66:12 You caused men to ride over our heads [when we were prostrate]; we went through fire and through water, but You brought us out into a broad, moist place [to abundance and refreshment and the open air]." 
Psalms66:13 I will come into Your house with burnt offerings [of entire consecration]; I will pay You my vows," 
Psalms66:14 Which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in distress. 
Psalms66:15 I will offer to You burnt offerings of fat lambs, with rams consumed in sweet-smelling smoke; I will offer bullocks and he-goats. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms66:16 Come and hear, all you who reverently and worshipfully fear God, and I will declare what He has done for me!" 
Psalms66:17 I cried aloud to Him; He was extolled and high praise was under my tongue. 
Psalms66:18 If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me; [Prov. 15:29; 28:9; Isa. 1:15; John 9:31; James 4:3.]" 
Psalms66:19 But certainly God has heard me; He has given heed to the voice of my prayer. 
Psalms66:20 Blessed be God, Who has not rejected my prayer nor removed His mercy and loving-kindness from being [as it always is] with me." 
Psalms67:1 To the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments. A Psalm. A song. GOD BE merciful and gracious to us and bless us and cause His face to shine upon us and among us,Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!," 
Psalms67:2 That Your way may be known upon earth, Your saving power (Your deliverances and Your salvation) among all nations." 
Psalms67:3 Let the peoples praise You [turn away from their idols] and give thanks to You, O God; let all the peoples praise and give thanks to You." 
Psalms67:4 O let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for You will judge the peoples fairly and guide, lead, or drive the nations upon earth. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms67:5 Let the peoples praise You [turn away from their idols] and give thanks to You, O God; let all the peoples praise and give thanks to You!" 
Psalms67:6 The earth has yielded its harvest [in evidence of God's approval]; God, even our own God, will bless us." 
Psalms67:7 God will bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall reverently fear Him." 
Psalms68:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. A song. GOD IS [already] beginning to arise, and His enemies to scatter; let them also who hate Him flee before Him!" 
Psalms68:2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away; as wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish before the presence of God." 
Psalms68:3 But let the [uncompromisingly] righteous be glad; let them be in high spirits and glory before God, yes, let them [jubilantly] rejoice!" 
Psalms68:4 Sing to God, sing praises to His name, cast up a highway for Him Who rides through the deserts,His name is the Lord,be in high spirits and glory before Him!" 
Psalms68:5 A father of the fatherless and a judge and protector of the widows is God in His holy habitation. 
Psalms68:6 God places the solitary in families and gives the desolate a home in which to dwell; He leads the prisoners out to prosperity; but the rebellious dwell in a parched land. 
Psalms68:7 O God, when You went forth before Your people, when You marched through the wilderness,Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!," 
Psalms68:8 The earth trembled, the heavens also poured down [rain] at the presence of God; yonder Sinai quaked at the presence of God, the God of Israel." 
Psalms68:9 You, O God, did send a plentiful rain; You did restore and confirm Your heritage when it languished and was weary." 
Psalms68:10 Your flock found a dwelling place in it; You, O God, in Your goodness did provide for the poor and needy." 
Psalms68:11 The Lord gives the word [of power]; the women who bear and publish [the news] are a great host. 
Psalms68:12 The kings of the enemies' armies, they flee, they flee! She who tarries at home divides the spoil [left behind]." 
Psalms68:13 Though you [the slackers] may lie among the sheepfolds [in slothful ease, yet for Israel] the wings of a dove are covered with silver, its pinions excessively green with gold [are trophies taken from the enemy]." 
Psalms68:14 When the Almighty scattered kings in [the land], it was as when it snows on Zalmon [a wooded hill near Shechem]." 
Psalms68:15 Is Mount Bashan the high mountain of summits, Mount Bashan [east of the Jordan] the mount of God?" 
Psalms68:16 Why do you look with grudging and envy, you many-peaked mountains, at the mountain [of the city called Zion] which God has desired for His dwelling place? Yes, the Lord will dwell in it forever." 
Psalms68:17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands upon thousands. The Lord is among them as He was in Sinai, [so also] in the Holy Place (the sanctuary in Jerusalem)." 
Psalms68:18 You have ascended on high. You have led away captive a train of vanquished foes; You have received gifts of men, yes, of the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell there with them. [Eph. 4:8.]" 
Psalms68:19 Blessed be the Lord, Who bears our burdens and carries us day by day, even the God Who is our salvation! Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms68:20 God is to us a God of deliverances and salvation; and to God the Lord belongs escape from death [setting us free]. 
Psalms68:21 But God will shatter the heads of His enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as goes on still in his trespasses and guilty ways." 
Psalms68:22 The Lord said, I will bring back [your enemies] from Bashan; I will bring them back from the depths of the [Red] Sea," 
Psalms68:23 That you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their share from the foe." 
Psalms68:24 They see Your goings, O God, even the [solemn processions] of my God, my King, into the sanctuary [in holiness]." 
Psalms68:25 The singers go in front, the players on instruments last; between them the maidens are playing on tambourines." 
Psalms68:26 Bless, give thanks, and gratefully praise God in full congregations, even the Lord, O you who are from [Jacob] the fountain of Israel." 
Psalms68:27 There is little Benjamin in the lead [in the procession], the princes of Judah and their company, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali." 
Psalms68:28 Your God has commanded your strength [your might in His service and impenetrable hardness to temptation]; O God, display Your might and strengthen what You have wrought for us!" 
Psalms68:29 [Out of respect] for Your temple at Jerusalem kings shall bring gifts to You. 
Psalms68:30 Rebuke the wild beasts dwelling among the reeds [in Egypt], the herd of bulls (the leaders) with the calves of the peoples; trample underfoot those who lust for tribute money; scatter the peoples who delight in war." 
Psalms68:31 Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall hasten to stretch out her hands [with the offerings of submission] to God. 
Psalms68:32 Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth, sing praises to the Lord! Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms68:33 [Sing praises] to Him Who rides upon the heavens, the ancient heavens; behold, He sends forth His voice, His mighty voice." 
Psalms68:34 Ascribe power and strength to God; His majesty is over Israel, and His strength and might are in the skies." 
Psalms68:35 O God, awe-inspiring, profoundly impressive, and terrible are You out of Your holy places; the God of Israel Himself gives strength and fullness of might to His people. Blessed be God!" 
Psalms69:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Lilies. [A Psalm] of David. SAVE ME, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck [they threaten my life]." 
Psalms69:2 I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, where the floods overwhelm me." 
Psalms69:3 I am weary with my crying; my throat is parched; my eyes fail with waiting [hopefully] for my God. 
Psalms69:4 Those who hate me without cause are more than the hairs of my head; those who would cut me off and destroy me, being my enemies wrongfully, are many and mighty. I am [forced] to restore what I did not steal. [John 15:25.]" 
Psalms69:5 O God, You know my folly and blundering; my sins and my guilt are not hidden from You." 
Psalms69:6 Let not those who wait and hope and look for You, O Lord of hosts, be put to shame through me; let not those who seek and inquire for and require You [as their vital necessity] be brought to confusion and dishonor through me, O God of Israel." 
Psalms69:7 Because for Your sake I have borne taunt and reproach; confusion and shame have covered my face. 
Psalms69:8 I have become a stranger to my brethren, and an alien to my mother's children. [John 7:3-5.]" 
Psalms69:9 For zeal for Your house has eaten me up, and the reproaches and insults of those who reproach and insult You have fallen upon me. [John 2:17; Rom. 15:3.]" 
Psalms69:10 When I wept and humbled myself with fasting, I was jeered at and humiliated;" 
Psalms69:11 When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword (an object of scorn) to them." 
Psalms69:12 They who sit in [the city's] gate talk about me, and I am the song of the drunkards." 
Psalms69:13 But as for me, my prayer is to You, O Lord. At an acceptable and opportune time, O God, in the multitude of Your mercy and the abundance of Your loving-kindness hear me, and in the truth and faithfulness of Your salvation answer me." 
Psalms69:14 Rescue me out of the mire, and let me not sink; let me be delivered from those who hate me and from out of the deep waters." 
Psalms69:15 Let not the floodwaters overflow and overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up nor the [dug] pit [with water perhaps in the bottom] close its mouth over me." 
Psalms69:16 Hear and answer me, O Lord, for Your loving-kindness is sweet and comforting; according to Your plenteous tender mercy and steadfast love turn to me." 
Psalms69:17 Hide not Your face from Your servant, for I am in distress; O answer me speedily!" 
Psalms69:18 Draw close to me and redeem me; ransom and set me free because of my enemies [lest they glory in my prolonged distress]! 
Psalms69:19 You know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor; my adversaries are all before You [fully known to You]. 
Psalms69:20 Insults and reproach have broken my heart; I am full of heaviness and I am distressingly sick. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none." 
Psalms69:21 They gave me also gall [poisonous and bitter] for my food, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar (a soured wine) to drink. [Matt. 27:34, 48.]" 
Psalms69:22 Let their own table [with all its abundance and luxury] become a snare to them; and when they are secure in peace [or at their sacrificial feasts, let it become] a trap to them." 
Psalms69:23 Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually [from terror, dismay, and feebleness]." 
Psalms69:24 Pour out Your indignation upon them, and let the fierceness of Your burning anger catch up with them." 
Psalms69:25 Let their habitation and their encampment be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents. [Matt. 23:38; Acts 1:20.] 
Psalms69:26 For they pursue and persecute him whom You have smitten, and they gossip about those whom You have wounded, [adding] to their grief and pain." 
Psalms69:27 Let one [unforgiven] perverseness and iniquity accumulate upon another for them [in Your book], and let them not come into Your righteousness or be justified and acquitted by You." 
Psalms69:28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living and the book of life and not be enrolled among the [uncompromisingly] righteous (those upright and in right standing with God). [Rev. 3:4, 5; 20:12, 15; 21:27.]" 
Psalms69:29 But I am poor, sorrowful, and in pain; let Your salvation, O God, set me up on high." 
Psalms69:30 I will praise the name of God with a song and will magnify Him with thanksgiving," 
Psalms69:31 And it will please the Lord better than an ox or a bullock that has horns and hoofs. 
Psalms69:32 The humble shall see it and be glad; you who seek God, inquiring for and requiring Him [as your first need], let your hearts revive and live! [Ps. 22:26; 42:1.]" 
Psalms69:33 For the Lord hears the poor and needy and despises not His prisoners (His miserable and wounded ones). 
Psalms69:34 Let heaven and earth praise Him, the seas and everything that moves in them." 
Psalms69:35 For God will save Zion and rebuild the cities of Judah; and [His servants] shall remain and dwell there and have it in their possession; 
Psalms69:36 The children of His servants shall inherit it, and those who love His name shall dwell in it." 
Psalms70:1 To the Chief Musician. [A Psalm] of David, to bring to remembrance or make memorial. MAKE HASTE, O God, to deliver me; make haste to help me, O Lord!" 
Psalms70:2 Let them be put to shame and confounded that seek and demand my life; let them be turned backward and brought to confusion and dishonor who desire and delight in my hurt. 
Psalms70:3 Let them be turned back and appalled because of their shame and disgrace who say, Aha, aha!" 
Psalms70:4 May all those who seek, inquire of and for You, and require You [as their vital need] rejoice and be glad in You; and may those who love Your salvation say continually, Let God be magnified!" 
Psalms70:5 But I am poor and needy; hasten to me, O God! You are my Help and my Deliverer; O Lord, do not tarry!" 
Psalms71:1 IN YOU, O Lord, do I put my trust and confidently take refuge; let me never be put to shame or confusion!" 
Psalms71:2 Deliver me in Your righteousness and cause me to escape; bow down Your ear to me and save me! 
Psalms71:3 Be to me a rock of refuge in which to dwell, and a sheltering stronghold to which I may continually resort, which You have appointed to save me, for You are my Rock and my Fortress." 
Psalms71:4 Rescue me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the grasp of the unrighteous and ruthless man." 
Psalms71:5 For You are my hope; O Lord God, You are my trust from my youth and the source of my confidence." 
Psalms71:6 Upon You have I leaned and relied from birth; You are He Who took me from my mother's womb and You have been my benefactor from that day. My praise is continually of You. 
Psalms71:7 I am as a wonder and surprise to many, but You are my strong refuge." 
Psalms71:8 My mouth shall be filled with Your praise and with Your honor all the day. 
Psalms71:9 Cast me not off nor send me away in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent and my powers fail. 
Psalms71:10 For my enemies talk against me; those who watch for my life consult together," 
Psalms71:11 Saying, God has forsaken him; pursue and persecute and take him, for there is none to deliver him." 
Psalms71:12 O God, be not far from me! O my God, make haste to help me!" 
Psalms71:13 Let them be put to shame and consumed who are adversaries to my life; let them be covered with reproach, scorn, and dishonor who seek and require my hurt." 
Psalms71:14 But I will hope continually, and will praise You yet more and more." 
Psalms71:15 My mouth shall tell of Your righteous acts and of Your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is more than I know." 
Psalms71:16 I will come in the strength and with the mighty acts of the Lord God; I will mention and praise Your righteousness, even Yours alone." 
Psalms71:17 O God, You have taught me from my youth, and hitherto have I declared Your wondrous works." 
Psalms71:18 Yes, even when I am old and gray-headed, O God, forsake me not, [but keep me alive] until I have declared Your mighty strength to [this] generation, and Your might and power to all that are to come." 
Psalms71:19 Your righteousness also, O God, is very high [reaching to the heavens], You Who have done great things; O God, who is like You, or who is Your equal?" 
Psalms71:20 You Who have shown us [all] troubles great and sore will quicken us again and will bring us up again from the depths of the earth. 
Psalms71:21 Increase my greatness (my honor) and turn and comfort me. 
Psalms71:22 I will also praise You with the harp, even Your truth and faithfulness, O my God; unto You will I sing praises with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms71:23 My lips shall shout for joy when I sing praises to You, and my inner being, which You have redeemed." 
Psalms71:24 My tongue also shall talk of Your righteousness all the day long; for they are put to shame, for they are confounded, who seek and demand my hurt." 
Psalms72:1 [A Psalm] for Solomon. GIVE THE king [knowledge of] Your [way of] judging, O God, and [the spirit of] Your righteousness to the king's son [to control all his actions]." 
Psalms72:2 Let him judge and govern Your people with righteousness, and Your poor and afflicted ones with judgment and justice." 
Psalms72:3 The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the hills, through [the general establishment of] righteousness." 
Psalms72:4 May he judge and defend the poor of the people, deliver the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor," 
Psalms72:5 So that they may revere and fear You while the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations." 
Psalms72:6 May he [Solomon as a type of King David's greater Son] be like rain that comes down upon the mown grass, like showers that water the earth." 
Psalms72:7 In His [Christ's] days shall the [uncompromisingly] righteous flourish and peace abound till there is a moon no longer. [Isa. 11:3-9.] 
Psalms72:8 He [Christ] shall have dominion also from sea to sea and from the River [Euphrates] to the ends of the earth. [Zech. 14:9.] 
Psalms72:9 Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before Him and His enemies shall lick the dust. 
Psalms72:10 The kings of Tarshish and of the coasts shall bring offerings; the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 
Psalms72:11 Yes, all kings shall fall down before Him, all nations shall serve Him. [Ps. 138:4.]" 
Psalms72:12 For He delivers the needy when he calls out, the poor also and him who has no helper." 
Psalms72:13 He will have pity on the poor and weak and needy and will save the lives of the needy. 
Psalms72:14 He will redeem their lives from oppression and fraud and violence, and precious and costly shall their blood be in His sight." 
Psalms72:15 And He shall live; and to Him shall be given gold of Sheba; prayer also shall be made for Him and through Him continually, and they shall bless and praise Him all the day long." 
Psalms72:16 There shall be abundance of grain in the soil upon the top of the mountains [the least fruitful places in the land]; the fruit of it shall wave like [the forests of] Lebanon, and [the inhabitants of] the city shall flourish like grass of the earth." 
Psalms72:17 His name shall endure forever; His name shall continue as long as the sun [indeed, His name continues before the sun]. And men shall be blessed and bless themselves by Him; all nations shall call Him blessed!" 
Psalms72:18 Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, Who alone does wondrous things!" 
Psalms72:19 Blessed be His glorious name forever; let the whole earth be filled with His glory! Amen and Amen! 
Psalms72:20 The prayers of David son of Jesse are ended. 
Psalms73:1 A Psalm of Asaph. TRULY GOD is [only] good to Israel, even to those who are upright and pure in heart." 
Psalms73:2 But as for me, my feet were almost gone, my steps had well-nigh slipped." 
Psalms73:3 For I was envious of the foolish and arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 
Psalms73:4 For they suffer no violent pangs in their death, but their strength is firm." 
Psalms73:5 They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they smitten and plagued like other men. 
Psalms73:6 Therefore pride is about their necks like a chain; violence covers them like a garment [like a long, luxurious robe]." 
Psalms73:7 Their eyes stand out with fatness, they have more than heart could wish; and the imaginations of their minds overflow [with follies]." 
Psalms73:8 They scoff, and wickedly utter oppression; they speak loftily [from on high, maliciously and blasphemously]." 
Psalms73:9 They set their mouths against and speak down from heaven, and their tongues swagger through the earth [invading even heaven with blasphemy and smearing earth with slanders]. [Rev. 13:6.]" 
Psalms73:10 Therefore His people return here, and waters of a full cup [offered by the wicked] are [blindly] drained by them." 
Psalms73:11 And they say, How does God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?" 
Psalms73:12 Behold, these are the ungodly, who always prosper and are at ease in the world; they increase in riches." 
Psalms73:13 Surely then in vain have I cleansed my heart and washed my hands in innocency. 
Psalms73:14 For all the day long have I been smitten and plagued, and chastened every morning." 
Psalms73:15 Had I spoken thus [and given expression to my feelings], I would have been untrue and have dealt treacherously against the generation of Your children." 
Psalms73:16 But when I considered how to understand this, it was too great an effort for me and too painful" 
Psalms73:17 Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I understood [for I considered] their end. 
Psalms73:18 [After all] You do set the [wicked] in slippery places; You cast them down to ruin and destruction. 
Psalms73:19 How they become a desolation in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors! 
Psalms73:20 As a dream [which seems real] until one awakens, so, O Lord, when You arouse Yourself [to take note of the wicked], You will despise their outward show." 
Psalms73:21 For my heart was grieved, embittered, and in a state of ferment, and I was pricked in my heart [as with the sharp fang of an adder]." 
Psalms73:22 So foolish, stupid, and brutish was I, and ignorant; I was like a beast before You." 
Psalms73:23 Nevertheless I am continually with You; You do hold my right hand. 
Psalms73:24 You will guide me with Your counsel, and afterward receive me to honor and glory." 
Psalms73:25 Whom have I in heaven but You? And I have no delight or desire on earth besides You. 
Psalms73:26 My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the Rock and firm Strength of my heart and my Portion forever." 
Psalms73:27 For behold, those who are far from You shall perish; You will destroy all who are false to You and like [spiritual] harlots depart from You." 
Psalms73:28 But it is good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the Lord God and made Him my refuge, that I may tell of all Your works." 
Psalms74:1 A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of Asaph. O GOD, why do You cast us off forever? Why does Your anger burn and smoke against the sheep of Your pasture?" 
Psalms74:2 [Earnestly] remember Your congregation which You have acquired of old, which You have redeemed to be the tribe of Your heritage; remember Mount Zion, where You have dwelt." 
Psalms74:3 Direct Your feet [quickly] to the perpetual ruins and desolations; the foe has devastated and desecrated everything in the sanctuary. 
Psalms74:4 In the midst of Your Holy Place Your enemies have roared [with their battle cry]; they set up their own [idol] emblems for signs [of victory]. 
Psalms74:5 They seemed like men who lifted up axes upon a thicket of trees to make themselves a record. 
Psalms74:6 And then all the carved wood of the Holy Place they broke down with hatchets and hammers. 
Psalms74:7 They have set Your sanctuary on fire; they have profaned the dwelling place of Your Name by casting it to the ground. 
Psalms74:8 They said in their hearts, Let us make havoc [of such places] altogether. They have burned up all God's meetinghouses in the land." 
Psalms74:9 We do not see our symbols; there is no longer any prophet, neither does any among us know for how long." 
Psalms74:10 O God, how long is the adversary to scoff and reproach? Is the enemy to blaspheme and revile Your name forever?" 
Psalms74:11 Why do You hold back Your hand, even Your right hand? Draw it out of Your bosom and consume them [make an end of them]!" 
Psalms74:12 Yet God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth." 
Psalms74:13 You did divide the [Red] Sea by Your might; You broke the heads of the [Egyptian] dragons in the waters. [Exod. 14:21.] 
Psalms74:14 You crushed the heads of Leviathan (Egypt); You did give him as food for the creatures inhabiting the wilderness. 
Psalms74:15 You did cleave open [the rock bringing forth] fountains and streams; You dried up mighty, ever-flowing rivers (the Jordan). [Exod. 17:6; Num. 20:11; Josh. 3:13.]" 
Psalms74:16 The day is Yours, the night also is Yours; You have established the [starry] light and the sun." 
Psalms74:17 You have fixed all the borders of the earth [the divisions of land and sea and of the nations]; You have made summer and winter. [Acts17:26.] 
Psalms74:18 [Earnestly] remember how the enemy has scoffed, O Lord, and reproached You, and how a foolish and impious people has blasphemed Your name." 
Psalms74:19 Oh, do not deliver the life of your turtledove to the wild beast (to the greedy multitude); forget not the life [of the multitude] of Your poor forever." 
Psalms74:20 Have regard for the covenant [You made with Abraham], for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence." 
Psalms74:21 Oh, let not the downtrodden return in shame; let the oppressed and needy praise Your name." 
Psalms74:22 Arise, O God, plead Your own cause; remember [earnestly] how the foolish and impious man scoffs and reproaches You day after day and all day long." 
Psalms74:23 Do not forget the [clamoring] voices of Your adversaries, the tumult of those who rise up against You, which ascends continually." 
Psalms75:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Do Not Destroy. A Psalm of Asaph. A song. WE GIVE praise and thanks to You, O God, we praise and give thanks; Your wondrous works declare that Your Name is near and they who invoke Your Name rehearse Your wonders." 
Psalms75:2 When the proper time has come [for executing My judgments], I will judge uprightly [says the Lord]." 
Psalms75:3 When the earth totters, and all the inhabitants of it, it is I Who will poise and keep steady its pillars. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms75:4 I said to the arrogant and boastful, Deal not arrogantly [do not boast]; and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn [of personal aggrandizement]." 
Psalms75:5 Lift not up your [aggressive] horn on high, speak not with a stiff neck and insolent arrogance." 
Psalms75:6 For not from the east nor from the west nor from the south come promotion and lifting up. [Isa. 14:13.] 
Psalms75:7 But God is the Judge! He puts down one and lifts up another. 
Psalms75:8 For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup [of His wrath], and the wine foams and is red, well mixed; and He pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth must drain it and drink its dregs. [Ps. 60:3; Jer. 25:15; Rev. 14:9, 10; 16:19.]" 
Psalms75:9 But I will declare and rejoice forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 
Psalms75:10 All the horns of the ungodly also will I cut off [says the Lord], but the horns of the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall be exalted." 
Psalms76:1 To the Chief Musician; on stringed instruments. A Psalm of Asaph. A song. IN JUDAH God is known and renowned; His name is highly praised and is great in Israel. 
Psalms76:2 In [Jeru]Salem also is His tabernacle, and His dwelling place is in Zion." 
Psalms76:3 There He broke the bow's flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms76:4 Glorious and excellent are You from the mountains of prey [splendid and majestic, more than the everlasting mountains]." 
Psalms76:5 The stouthearted are stripped of their spoil, they have slept the sleep [of death]; and none of the men of might could raise their hands." 
Psalms76:6 At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both chariot [rider] and horse are cast into a dead sleep [of death]. [Exod. 15:1, 21; Nah. 2:13; Zech. 12:4.]" 
Psalms76:7 You, even You, are to be feared [with awe and reverence]! Who may stand in Your presence when once Your anger is roused?" 
Psalms76:8 You caused sentence to be heard from heaven; the earth feared and was still, 
Psalms76:9 When God arose to [establish] judgment, to save all the meek and oppressed of the earth. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms76:10 Surely the wrath of man shall praise You; the remainder of wrath shall You restrain and gird and arm Yourself with it. 
Psalms76:11 Vow and pay to the Lord your God; let all who are round about Him bring presents to Him Who ought to be [reverently] feared. 
Psalms76:12 He will cut off the spirit [of pride and fury] of princes; He is terrible to the [ungodly] kings of the earth. 
Psalms77:1 To the Chief Musician; after the manner of Jeduthun [one of David's three chief musicians, founder of an official musical family]. A Psalm of Asaph. I WILL cry to God with my voice, even to God with my voice, and He will give ear and hearken to me." 
Psalms77:2 In the day of my trouble I seek (inquire of and desperately require) the Lord; in the night my hand is stretched out [in prayer] without slacking up; I refuse to be comforted. 
Psalms77:3 I [earnestly] remember God; I am disquieted and I groan; I muse in prayer, and my spirit faints [overwhelmed]. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms77:4 You hold my eyes from closing; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 
Psalms77:5 I consider the days of old, the years of bygone times [of prosperity]." 
Psalms77:6 I call to remembrance my song in the night; with my heart I meditate and my spirit searches diligently: 
Psalms77:7 Will the Lord cast off forever? And will He be favorable no more? 
Psalms77:8 Have His mercy and loving-kindness ceased forever? Have His promises ended for all time? 
Psalms77:9 Has God [deliberately] abandoned or forgotten His graciousness? Has He in anger shut up His compassion? Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms77:10 And I say, This [apparent desertion of Israel by God] is my appointed lot and trial, but I will recall the years of the right hand of the Most High [in loving-kindness extended toward us], for this is my grief, that the right hand of the Most High changes." 
Psalms77:11 I will [earnestly] recall the deeds of the Lord; yes, I will [earnestly] remember the wonders [You performed for our fathers] of old." 
Psalms77:12 I will meditate also upon all Your works and consider all Your [mighty] deeds. 
Psalms77:13 Your way, O God, is in the sanctuary [in holiness, away from sin and guilt]. Who is a great God like our God?" 
Psalms77:14 You are the God Who does wonders; You have demonstrated Your power among the peoples. 
Psalms77:15 You have with Your [mighty] arm redeemed Your people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms77:16 When the waters [at the Red Sea and the Jordan] saw You, O God, they were afraid; the deep shuddered also, for [all] the waters saw You." 
Psalms77:17 The clouds poured down water, the skies sent out a sound [of rumbling thunder]; Your arrows went forth [in forked lightning]." 
Psalms77:18 The voice of Your thunder was in the whirlwind, the lightnings illumined the world; the earth trembled and shook." 
Psalms77:19 Your way [in delivering Your people] was through the sea, and Your paths through the great waters, yet Your footsteps were not traceable, but were obliterated." 
Psalms77:20 You led Your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
Psalms78:1 A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of Asaph. GIVE EAR, O my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my mouth." 
Psalms78:2 I will open my mouth in a parable (in instruction by numerous examples); I will utter dark sayings of old [that hide important truth],[Matt. 13:34, 35.]" 
Psalms78:3 Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us." 
Psalms78:4 We will not hide them from their children, but we will tell to the generation to come the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, and His might, and the wonderful works that He has performed." 
Psalms78:5 For He established a testimony (an express precept) in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, commanding our fathers that they should make [the great facts of God's dealings with Israel] known to their children," 
Psalms78:6 That the generation to come might know them, that the children still to be born might arise and recount them to their children," 
Psalms78:7 That they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but might keep His commandments" 
Psalms78:8 And might not be as their fathers,a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that set not their hearts aright nor prepared their hearts to know God, and whose spirits were not steadfast and faithful to God." 
Psalms78:9 The children of Ephraim were armed and carrying bows, yet they turned back in the day of battle." 
Psalms78:10 They kept not the covenant of God and refused to walk according to His law 
Psalms78:11 And forgot His works and His wonders that He had shown them. 
Psalms78:12 Marvelous things did He in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan [where Pharaoh resided]." 
Psalms78:13 He divided the [Red] Sea and caused them to pass through it, and He made the waters stand like a heap. [Exod. 14:22.]" 
Psalms78:14 In the daytime also He led them with a [pillar of] cloud and all the night with a light of fire. [Exod. 13:21; 14:24.] 
Psalms78:15 He split rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as out of the deep. 
Psalms78:16 He brought streams also out of the rock [at Rephidim and Kadesh] and caused waters to run down like rivers. [Exod. 17:6; Num. 20:11.] 
Psalms78:17 Yet they still went on to sin against Him by provoking and rebelling against the Most High in the wilderness (in the land of drought). 
Psalms78:18 And they tempted God in their hearts by asking for food according to their [selfish] desire and appetite. 
Psalms78:19 Yes, they spoke against God; they said, Can God furnish [the food for] a table in the wilderness?" 
Psalms78:20 Behold, He did smite the rock so that waters gushed out and the streams overflowed; but can He give bread also? Can He provide flesh for His people?" 
Psalms78:21 Therefore, when the Lord heard, He was [full of] wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob, His anger mounted up against Israel," 
Psalms78:22 Because in God they believed not [they relied not on Him, they adhered not to Him], and they trusted not in His salvation (His power to save)." 
Psalms78:23 Yet He commanded the clouds above and opened the doors of heaven; 
Psalms78:24 And He rained down upon them manna to eat and gave them heaven's grain. [Exod. 16:14; John 6:31.] 
Psalms78:25 Everyone ate the bread of the mighty [man ate angels' food]; God sent them meat in abundance. 
Psalms78:26 He let forth the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by His power He guided the south wind." 
Psalms78:27 He rained flesh also upon them like the dust, and winged birds [quails] like the sand of the seas. [Num. 11:31.]" 
Psalms78:28 And He let [the birds] fall in the midst of their camp, round about their tents." 
Psalms78:29 So they ate and were well filled; He gave them what they craved and lusted after. 
Psalms78:30 But scarce had they stilled their craving, and while their meat was yet in their mouths, [Num. 11:33.]" 
Psalms78:31 The wrath of God came upon them and slew the strongest and sturdiest of them and smote down Israel's chosen youth. 
Psalms78:32 In spite of all this, they sinned still more, for they believed not in (relied not on and adhered not to Him for) His wondrous works." 
Psalms78:33 Therefore their days He consumed like a breath [in emptiness, falsity, and futility] and their years in terror and sudden haste." 
Psalms78:34 When He slew [some of] them, [the remainder] inquired after Him diligently, and they repented and sincerely sought God [for a time]." 
Psalms78:35 And they [earnestly] remembered that God was their Rock, and the Most High God their Redeemer." 
Psalms78:36 Nevertheless they flattered Him with their mouths and lied to Him with their tongues. 
Psalms78:37 For their hearts were not right or sincere with Him, neither were they faithful and steadfast to His covenant. [Acts 8:21.]" 
Psalms78:38 But He, full of [merciful] compassion, forgave their iniquity and destroyed them not; yes, many a time He turned His anger away and did not stir up all His wrath and indignation." 
Psalms78:39 For He [earnestly] remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that goes and does not return." 
Psalms78:40 How often they defied and rebelled against Him in the wilderness and grieved Him in the desert! 
Psalms78:41 And time and again they turned back and tempted God, provoking and incensing the Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms78:42 They remembered not [seriously the miracles of the working of] His hand, nor the day when He delivered them from the enemy," 
Psalms78:43 How He wrought His miracles in Egypt and His wonders in the field of Zoan [where Pharaoh resided] 
Psalms78:44 And turned their rivers into blood, and their streams, so that they could not drink from them." 
Psalms78:45 He sent swarms of [venomous] flies among them which devoured them, and frogs which destroyed them." 
Psalms78:46 He gave also their crops to the caterpillar and [the fruit of] their labor to the locust. 
Psalms78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamore trees with frost and [great chunks of] ice. 
Psalms78:48 He [caused them to shut up their cattle or] gave them up also to the hail and their flocks to hot thunderbolts. [Exod. 9:18-21.] 
Psalms78:49 He let loose upon them the fierceness of His anger, His wrath and indignation and distress, by sending [a mission of] angels of calamity and woe among them." 
Psalms78:50 He leveled and made a straight path for His anger [to give it free course]; He did not spare [the Egyptian families] from death but gave their beasts over to the pestilence and the life [of their eldest] over to the plague. 
Psalms78:51 He smote all the firstborn in Egypt, the chief of their strength in the tents [of the land of the sons] of Ham." 
Psalms78:52 But [God] led His own people forth like sheep and guided them [with a shepherd's care] like a flock in the wilderness. 
Psalms78:53 And He led them on safely and in confident trust, so that they feared not; but the sea overwhelmed their enemies. [Exod. 14:27, 28.]" 
Psalms78:54 And He brought them to His holy border, the border of [Canaan] His sanctuary, even to this mountain [Zion] which His right hand had acquired." 
Psalms78:55 He drove out the nations also before [Israel] and allotted their land as a heritage, measured out and partitioned; and He made the tribes of Israel to dwell in the tents of those dispossessed." 
Psalms78:56 Yet they tempted and provoked and rebelled against the Most High God and kept not His testimonies. 
Psalms78:57 But they turned back and dealt unfaithfully and treacherously like their fathers; they were twisted like a warped and deceitful bow [that will not respond to the archer's aim]. 
Psalms78:58 For they provoked Him to [righteous] anger with their high places [for idol worship] and moved Him to jealousy with their graven images. 
Psalms78:59 When God heard this, He was full of [holy] wrath; and He utterly rejected Israel, greatly abhorring and loathing [her ways]," 
Psalms78:60 So that He forsook the tabernacle at Shiloh, the tent in which He had dwelt among men [and never returned to it again]," 
Psalms78:61 And delivered His strength and power (the ark of the covenant) into captivity, and His glory into the hands of the foe (the Philistines). [I Sam. 4:21.]" 
Psalms78:62 He gave His people over also to the sword and was wroth with His heritage [Israel]. [I Sam. 4:10.] 
Psalms78:63 The fire [of war] devoured their young men, and their bereaved virgins were not praised in a wedding song." 
Psalms78:64 Their priests [Hophni and Phinehas] fell by the sword, and their widows made no lamentation [for the bodies came not back from the scene of battle, and the widow of Phinehas also died that day]. [I Sam. 4:11, 19, 20.]" 
Psalms78:65 Then the Lord awakened as from sleep, as a strong man whose consciousness of power is heightened by wine." 
Psalms78:66 And He smote His adversaries in the back [as they fled]; He put them to lasting shame and reproach. 
Psalms78:67 Moreover, He rejected the tent of Joseph and chose not the tribe of Ephraim [in which the tabernacle had been accustomed to stand]." 
Psalms78:68 But He chose the tribe of Judah [as Israel's leader], Mount Zion, which He loved [to replace Shiloh as His capital]." 
Psalms78:69 And He built His sanctuary [exalted] like the heights [of the heavens] and like the earth which He established forever. 
Psalms78:70 He chose David His servant and took him from the sheepfolds; [I Sam. 16:11, 12.]" 
Psalms78:71 From tending the ewes that had their young He brought him to be the shepherd of Jacob His people, of Israel His inheritance. [II Sam. 7:7, 8.]" 
Psalms78:72 So [David] was their shepherd with an upright heart; he guided them by the discernment and skillfulness [which controlled] his hands. 
Psalms79:1 A Psalm of Asaph. O GOD, the nations have come into [the land of Your people] Your inheritance; Your sacred temple have they defiled; they have made Jerusalem heaps of ruins." 
Psalms79:2 The dead bodies of Your servants they have given as food to the birds of the heavens, the flesh of Your saints to the beasts of the earth." 
Psalms79:3 Their blood they have poured out like water round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them." 
Psalms79:4 [Because of such humiliation] we have become a taunt and reproach to our neighbors, a mocking and derision to those who are round about us." 
Psalms79:5 How long, O Lord? Will You be angry forever? Shall Your jealousy [which cannot endure a divided allegiance] burn like fire?" 
Psalms79:6 Pour out Your wrath on the Gentile nations who do not acknowledge You, and upon the kingdoms that do not call on Your name. [II Thess. 1:8.]" 
Psalms79:7 For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his dwelling and his pasture. 
Psalms79:8 O do not [earnestly] remember against us the iniquities and guilt of our forefathers! Let Your compassion and tender mercy speedily come to meet us, for we are brought very low." 
Psalms79:9 Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of Your name! Deliver us, forgive us, and purge away our sins for Your name's sake." 
Psalms79:10 Why should the Gentile nations say, Where is their God? Let vengeance for the blood of Your servants which is poured out be known among the nations in our sight [not delaying until some future generation]." 
Psalms79:11 Let the groaning and sighing of the prisoner come before You; according to the greatness of Your power and Your arm spare those who are appointed to die! 
Psalms79:12 And return into the bosom of our neighbors sevenfold the taunts with which they have taunted and scoffed at You, O Lord!" 
Psalms79:13 Then we Your people, the sheep of Your pasture, will give You thanks forever; we will show forth and publish Your praise from generation to generation." 
Psalms80:1 To the Chief Musician; [set to the tune of]``Lilies, a Testimony."" A Psalm of Asaph. GIVE EAR, O Shepherd of Israel, You Who lead Joseph like a flock; You Who sit enthroned upon the cherubim [of the ark of the covenant], shine forth" 
Psalms80:2 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh! Stir up Your might, and come to save us!" 
Psalms80:3 Restore us again, O God; and cause Your face to shine [in pleasure and approval on us], and we shall be saved!" 
Psalms80:4 O Lord God of hosts, how long will You be angry with Your people's prayers?" 
Psalms80:5 You have fed them with the bread of tears, and You have given them tears to drink in large measure." 
Psalms80:6 You make us a strife and scorn to our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves." 
Psalms80:7 Restore us again, O God of hosts; and cause Your face to shine [upon us with favor as of old], and we shall be saved!" 
Psalms80:8 You brought a vine [Israel] out of Egypt; You drove out the [heathen] nations and planted it [in Canaan]. 
Psalms80:9 You prepared room before it, and it took deep root and it filled the land." 
Psalms80:10 The mountains were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs of it were like the great cedars [cedars of God]." 
Psalms80:11 [Israel] sent out its boughs to the [Mediterranean] Sea and its branches to the [Euphrates] River. [I Kings 4:21.] 
Psalms80:12 Why have You broken down its hedges and walls so that all who pass by pluck from its fruit? 
Psalms80:13 The boar out of the wood wastes it and the wild beast of the field feeds on it. 
Psalms80:14 Turn again, we beseech You, O God of hosts! Look down from heaven and see, visit, and have regard for this vine!" 
Psalms80:15 [Protect and maintain] the stock which Your right hand planted, and the branch (the son) that You have reared and made strong for Yourself." 
Psalms80:16 They have burned it with fire, it is cut down; may they perish at the rebuke of Your countenance." 
Psalms80:17 Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, upon the son of man whom You have made strong for Yourself." 
Psalms80:18 Then will we not depart from You; revive us (give us life) and we will call upon Your name. 
Psalms80:19 Restore us, O Lord God of hosts; cause Your face to shine [in pleasure, approval, and favor on us], and we shall be saved!" 
Psalms81:1 To the Chief Musician; set to Philistine lute, or [possibly] a particular Gittite tune. [A Psalm] of Asaph. SING ALOUD to God our Strength! Shout for joy to the God of Jacob!" 
Psalms81:2 Raise a song, sound the timbrel, the sweet lyre with the harp." 
Psalms81:3 Blow the trumpet at the New Moon, at the full moon, on our feast day." 
Psalms81:4 For this is a statute for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Jacob." 
Psalms81:5 This He ordained in Joseph [the savior] for a testimony when He went out over the land of Egypt. The speech of One Whom I knew not did I hear [saying]," 
Psalms81:6 I removed his shoulder from the burden; his hands were freed from the basket. 
Psalms81:7 You called in distress and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder; I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [Num. 20:3, 13, 24.]" 
Psalms81:8 Hear, O My people, and I will admonish you,O Israel, if you would listen to Me!" 
Psalms81:9 There shall no strange god be among you, neither shall you worship any alien god." 
Psalms81:10 I am the Lord your God, Who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide and I will fill it." 
Psalms81:11 But My people would not hearken to My voice, and Israel would have none of Me." 
Psalms81:12 So I gave them up to their own hearts' lust and let them go after their own stubborn will, that they might follow their own counsels. [Acts 7:42, 43; 14:16; Rom. 1:24, 26.]" 
Psalms81:13 Oh, that My people would listen to Me, that Israel would walk in My ways!" 
Psalms81:14 Speedily then I would subdue their enemies and turn My hand against their adversaries. 
Psalms81:15 [Had Israel listened to Me in Egypt, then] those who hated the Lord would have come cringing before Him, and their defeat would have lasted forever." 
Psalms81:16 [God] would feed [Israel now] also with the finest of the wheat; and with honey out of the rock would I satisfy you. 
Psalms82:1 A Psalm of Asaph. GOD STANDS in the assembly [of the representatives] of God; in the midst of the magistrates or judges He gives judgment [as] among the gods. 
Psalms82:2 How long will you [magistrates or judges] judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms82:3 Do justice to the weak (poor) and fatherless; maintain the rights of the afflicted and needy. 
Psalms82:4 Deliver the poor and needy; rescue them out of the hand of the wicked. 
Psalms82:5 [The magistrates and judges] know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in the darkness [of complacent satisfaction]; all the foundations of the earth [the fundamental principles upon which rests the administration of justice] are shaking." 
Psalms82:6 I said, You are gods [since you judge on My behalf, as My representatives]; indeed, all of you are children of the Most High. [John 10:34-36; Rom. 13:1, 2.]" 
Psalms82:7 But you shall die as men and fall as one of the princes. 
Psalms82:8 Arise, O God, judge the earth! For to You belong all the nations. [Rev. 11:15.]" 
Psalms83:1 A song. A Psalm of Asaph. KEEP NOT silence, O God; hold not Your peace or be still, O God." 
Psalms83:2 For, behold, Your enemies are in tumult, and those who hate You have raised their heads. [Acts 4:25, 26.]" 
Psalms83:3 They lay crafty schemes against Your people and consult together against Your hidden and precious ones. 
Psalms83:4 They have said, Come, and let us wipe them out as a nation; let the name of Israel be in remembrance no more." 
Psalms83:5 For they have consulted together with one accord and one heart; against You they make a covenant, 
Psalms83:6 The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, of Moab and the Hagrites," 
Psalms83:7 Gebal and Ammon and Amalek, the Philistines, with the inhabitants of Tyre." 
Psalms83:8 Assyria also has joined with them; they have helped the children of Lot [the Ammonites and the Moabites] and have been an arm to them. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms83:9 Do to them as [You did to] the Midianites, as to Sisera and Jabin at the brook of Kishon, [Judg. 4:12-24.]" 
Psalms83:10 Who perished at Endor, who became like manure for the earth." 
Psalms83:11 Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, yes, all their princes as Zebah and Zalmunna, [Judg. 7:23-25; 8:10-21.]" 
Psalms83:12 Who say, Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God." 
Psalms83:13 O my God, make them like whirling dust, like stubble or chaff before the wind!" 
Psalms83:14 As fire consumes the forest, and as the flame sets the mountains ablaze," 
Psalms83:15 So pursue and afflict them with Your tempest and terrify them with Your tornado or hurricane. 
Psalms83:16 Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek, inquire for, and insistently require Your name, O Lord." 
Psalms83:17 Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever; yes, let them be put to shame and perish," 
Psalms83:18 That they may know that You, Whose name alone is the Lord, are the Most High over all the earth." 
Psalms84:1 To the Chief Musician; set to a Philistine lute, or [possibly] a particular Gittite tune. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. HOW LOVELY are Your tabernacles, O Lord of hosts!" 
Psalms84:2 My soul yearns, yes, even pines and is homesick for the courts of the Lord; my heart and my flesh cry out and sing for joy to the living God." 
Psalms84:3 Yes, the sparrow has found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young,even Your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God." 
Psalms84:4 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are those who dwell in Your house and Your presence; they will be singing Your praises all the day long. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms84:5 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man whose strength is in You, in whose heart are the highways to Zion." 
Psalms84:6 Passing through the Valley of Weeping (Baca), they make it a place of springs; the early rain also fills [the pools] with blessings." 
Psalms84:7 They go from strength to strength [increasing in victorious power]; each of them appears before God in Zion. 
Psalms84:8 O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms84:9 Behold our shield [the king as Your agent], O God, and look upon the face of Your anointed!" 
Psalms84:10 For a day in Your courts is better than a thousand [anywhere else]; I would rather be a doorkeeper and stand at the threshold in the house of my God than to dwell [at ease] in the tents of wickedness. 
Psalms84:11 For the Lord God is a Sun and Shield; the Lord bestows [present] grace and favor and [future] glory (honor, splendor, and heavenly bliss)! No good thing will He withhold from those who walk uprightly." 
Psalms84:12 O Lord of hosts, blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who trusts in You [leaning and believing on You, committing all and confidently looking to You, and that without fear or misgiving]!" 
Psalms85:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. LORD, YOU have [at last] been favorable and have dealt graciously with Your land [of Canaan]; You have brought back [from Babylon] the captives of Jacob." 
Psalms85:2 You have forgiven and taken away the iniquity of Your people, You have covered all their sin. Selah [pause, and calmly realize what that means]!" 
Psalms85:3 You have withdrawn all Your wrath and indignation, You have turned away from the blazing anger [which You had let loose]." 
Psalms85:4 Restore us, O God of our salvation, and cause Your anger toward us to cease [forever]." 
Psalms85:5 Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger [and disfavor] and spread it out to all generations? 
Psalms85:6 Will You not revive us again, that Your people may rejoice in You?" 
Psalms85:7 Show us Your mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord, and grant us Your salvation." 
Psalms85:8 I will listen [with expectancy] to what God the Lord will say, for He will speak peace to His people, to His saints (those who are in right standing with Him),but let them not turn again to [self-confident] folly." 
Psalms85:9 Surely His salvation is near to those who reverently and worshipfully fear Him, [and is ready to be appropriated] that [the manifest presence of God, His] glory may tabernacle and abide in our land." 
Psalms85:10 Mercy and loving-kindness and truth have met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other. 
Psalms85:11 Truth shall spring up from the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven." 
Psalms85:12 Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase." 
Psalms85:13 Righteousness shall go before Him and shall make His footsteps a way in which to walk. 
Psalms86:1 A Prayer of David. INCLINE YOUR ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and distressed, needy and desiring." 
Psalms86:2 Preserve my life, for I am godly and dedicated; O my God, save Your servant, for I trust in You [leaning and believing on You, committing all and confidently looking to You, without fear or doubt]." 
Psalms86:3 Be merciful and gracious to me, O Lord, for to You do I cry all the day." 
Psalms86:4 Make me, Your servant, to rejoice, O Lord, for to You do I lift myself up." 
Psalms86:5 For You, O Lord, are good, and ready to forgive [our trespasses, sending them away, letting them go completely and forever]; and You are abundant in mercy and loving-kindness to all those who call upon You." 
Psalms86:6 Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer; and listen to the cry of my supplications." 
Psalms86:7 In the day of my trouble I will call on You, for You will answer me." 
Psalms86:8 There is none like unto You among the gods, O Lord, neither are their works like unto Yours." 
Psalms86:9 All nations whom You have made shall come and fall down before You, O Lord; and they shall glorify Your name." 
Psalms86:10 For You are great and work wonders! You alone are God. 
Psalms86:11 Teach me Your way, O Lord, that I may walk and live in Your truth; direct and unite my heart [solely, reverently] to fear and honor Your name. [Ps. 5:11; 69:36.]" 
Psalms86:12 I will confess and praise You, O Lord my God, with my whole (united) heart; and I will glorify Your name forevermore." 
Psalms86:13 For great is Your mercy and loving-kindness toward me; and You have delivered me from the depths of Sheol [from the exceeding depths of affliction]. 
Psalms86:14 O God, the proud and insolent are risen against me; a rabble of violent and ruthless men has sought and demanded my life, and they have not set You before them." 
Psalms86:15 But You, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy and loving-kindness and truth." 
Psalms86:16 O turn to me and have mercy and be gracious to me; grant strength (might and inflexibility to temptation) to Your servant and save the son of Your handmaiden. 
Psalms86:17 Show me a sign of [Your evident] goodwill and favor, that those who hate me may see it and be put to shame, because You, Lord, [will show Your approval of me when You] help and comfort me." 
Psalms87:1 A Psalm of the sons of Korah. A song. ON THE holy hills stands the city [of Jerusalem and the temple] God founded. 
Psalms87:2 The Lord loves the gates of Zion [through which the crowds of pilgrims enter from all nations] more than all the dwellings of Jacob (Israel). 
Psalms87:3 Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God. Selah [pause, and calmly realize what that means]!" 
Psalms87:4 I will make mention of Rahab [the poetic name for Egypt] and Babylon as among those who know [the city of God],behold, Philistia and Tyre, with Ethiopia (Cush),[saying], This man was born there." 
Psalms87:5 Yes, of Zion it shall be said, This man and that man were born in her, for the Most High Himself will establish her." 
Psalms87:6 The Lord shall count, when He registers the peoples, that this man was born there. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms87:7 The singers as well as the players on instruments shall say, All my springs (my sources of life and joy) are in you [city of our God]." 
Psalms88:1 A song. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. To the Chief Musician; set to chant mournfully. A didactic or reflective poem of Heman the Ezrahite. O LORD, the God of my salvation, I have cried to You for help by day; at night I am in Your presence. [Luke 18:7.]" 
Psalms88:1 A song. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. To the Chief Musician; set to chant mournfully. A didactic or reflective poem of Heman the Ezrahite. O LORD, the God of my salvation, I have cried to You for help by day; at night I am in Your presence. [Luke 18:7.]" 
Psalms88:2 Let my prayer come before You and really enter into Your presence; incline Your ear to my cry! 
Psalms88:3 For I am full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol (the place of the dead)." 
Psalms88:4 I am counted among those who go down into the pit (the grave); I am like a man who has no help or strength [a mere shadow]," 
Psalms88:5 Cast away among the dead, like the slain that lie in a [nameless] grave, whom You [seriously] remember no more, and they are cut off from Your hand." 
Psalms88:6 You have laid me in the depths of the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps." 
Psalms88:7 Your wrath lies hard upon me, and You have afflicted me with all Your waves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [Ps. 42:7.]" 
Psalms88:8 You have put my [familiar] friends far from me; You have made me an abomination to them. I am shut up, and I cannot come forth." 
Psalms88:9 My eye grows dim because of sorrow and affliction. Lord, I have called daily on You; I have spread forth my hands to You." 
Psalms88:10 Will You show wonders to the dead? Shall the departed arise and praise You? Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms88:11 Shall Your steadfast love be declared in the grave? Or Your faithfulness in Abaddon (Sheol, as a place of ruin and destruction)?" 
Psalms88:12 Shall Your wonders be known in the dark? And Your righteousness in the place of forgetfulness [where the dead forget and are forgotten]? 
Psalms88:13 But to You I cry, O Lord; and in the morning shall my prayer come to meet You." 
Psalms88:14 Lord, why do You cast me off? Why do You hide Your face from me? [Matt. 27:46.]" 
Psalms88:15 I was afflicted and close to death from my youth up; while I suffer Your terrors I am distracted [I faint]. 
Psalms88:16 Your fierce wrath has swept over me; Your terrors have destroyed me. 
Psalms88:17 They surround me like a flood all day long; together they have closed in upon me. 
Psalms88:18 Lover and friend have You put far from me; my familiar friends are darkness and the grave. 
Psalms89:1 A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of Ethan the Ezrahite. I WILL sing of the mercy and loving-kindness of the Lord forever; with my mouth will I make known Your faithfulness from generation to generation." 
Psalms89:1 A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of Ethan the Ezrahite. I WILL sing of the mercy and loving-kindness of the Lord forever; with my mouth will I make known Your faithfulness from generation to generation." 
Psalms89:2 For I have said, Mercy and loving-kindness shall be built up forever; Your faithfulness will You establish in the very heavens [unchangeable and perpetual]." 
Psalms89:3 [You have said] I have made a covenant with My chosen one, I have sworn to David My servant," 
Psalms89:4 Your Seed I will establish forever, and I will build up your throne for all generations. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [Isa. 9:7; Luke 1:32, 33; Gal. 3:16]" 
Psalms89:5 Let heaven (the angels) praise Your wonders, O Lord, Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones (the holy angels)." 
Psalms89:6 For who in the heavens can be compared to the Lord? Who among the mighty [heavenly beings] can be likened to the Lord," 
Psalms89:7 A God greatly feared and revered in the council of the holy (angelic) ones, and to be feared and worshipfully revered above all those who are round about Him?" 
Psalms89:8 O Lord God of hosts, who is a mighty one like unto You, O Lord? And Your faithfulness is round about You [an essential part of You at all times]." 
Psalms89:9 You rule the raging of the sea; when its waves arise, You still them." 
Psalms89:10 You have broken Rahab (Egypt) in pieces; with Your mighty arm You have scattered Your enemies. 
Psalms89:11 The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; the world and all that is in it, You have founded them." 
Psalms89:12 The north and the south, You have created them; Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon joyously praise Your name." 
Psalms89:13 You have a mighty arm; strong is Your hand, Your right hand is soaring high." 
Psalms89:14 Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; mercy and loving-kindness and truth go before Your face. 
Psalms89:15 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are the people who know the joyful sound [who understand and appreciate the spiritual blessings symbolized by the feasts]; they walk, O Lord, in the light and favor of Your countenance!" 
Psalms89:16 In Your name they rejoice all the day, and in Your righteousness they are exalted." 
Psalms89:17 For You are the glory of their strength [their proud adornment], and by Your favor our horn is exalted and we walk with uplifted faces!" 
Psalms89:18 For our shield belongs to the Lord, and our king to the Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms89:19 Once You spoke in a vision to Your devoted ones and said, I have endowed one who is mighty [a hero, giving him the power to help,to be a champion for Israel]; I have exalted one chosen from among the people." 
Psalms89:20 I have found David My servant; with My holy oil have I anointed him, [Acts 13:22.]" 
Psalms89:21 With whom My hand shall be established and ever abide; My arm also shall strengthen him. 
Psalms89:22 The enemy shall not exact from him or do him violence or outwit him, nor shall the wicked afflict and humble him." 
Psalms89:23 I will beat down his foes before his face and smite those who hate him. 
Psalms89:24 My faithfulness and My mercy and loving-kindness shall be with him, and in My name shall his horn be exalted [great power and prosperity shall be conferred upon him]." 
Psalms89:25 I will set his hand in control also on the [Mediterranean] Sea, and his right hand on the rivers [Euphrates with its tributaries]." 
Psalms89:26 He shall cry to Me, You are my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation!" 
Psalms89:27 Also I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. [Rev. 1:5.]" 
Psalms89:28 My mercy and loving-kindness will I keep for him forevermore, and My covenant shall stand fast and be faithful with him." 
Psalms89:29 His Offspring also will I make to endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven. [Isa. 9:7; Gal. 3:16.]" 
Psalms89:30 If his children forsake My law and walk not in My ordinances," 
Psalms89:31 If they break or profane My statutes and keep not My commandments," 
Psalms89:32 Then will I punish their transgression with the rod [of chastisement], and their iniquity with stripes. [II Sam. 7:14.]" 
Psalms89:33 Nevertheless, My loving-kindness will I not break off from him, nor allow My faithfulness to fail [to lie and be false to him]." 
Psalms89:34 My covenant will I not break or profane, nor alter the thing that is gone out of My lips." 
Psalms89:35 Once [for all] have I sworn by My holiness, which cannot be violated; I will not lie to David:" 
Psalms89:36 His Offspring shall endure forever, and his throne [shall continue] as the sun before Me. [Isa. 9:7; Gal. 3:16.]" 
Psalms89:37 It shall be established forever as the moon, the faithful witness in the heavens. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [Rev. 1:5; 3:14.]" 
Psalms89:38 But [in apparent contradiction to all this] You [even You the faithful Lord] have cast off and rejected; You have been full of wrath against Your anointed. 
Psalms89:39 You have despised and loathed and renounced the covenant with Your servant; You have profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. 
Psalms89:40 You have broken down all his hedges and his walls; You have brought his strongholds to ruin. 
Psalms89:41 All who pass along the road spoil and rob him; he has become the scorn and reproach of his neighbors. 
Psalms89:42 You have exalted the right hand of his foes; You have made all his enemies rejoice. 
Psalms89:43 Moreover, You have turned back the edge of his sword and have not made him to stand in battle." 
Psalms89:44 You have made his glory and splendor to cease and have hurled to the ground his throne. 
Psalms89:45 The days of his youth have You shortened; You have covered him with shame. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms89:46 How long, O Lord? Will You hide Yourself forever? How long shall Your wrath burn like fire?" 
Psalms89:47 O [earnestly] remember how short my time is and what a mere fleeting life mine is. For what emptiness, falsity, futility, and frailty You have created all men!" 
Psalms89:48 What man can live and shall not see death, or can deliver himself from the [powerful] hand of Sheol (the place of the dead)? Selah [pause, and calmly consider that]!" 
Psalms89:49 Lord, where are Your former loving-kindnesses [shown in the reigns of David and Solomon], which You swore to David in Your faithfulness?" 
Psalms89:50 Remember, Lord, and earnestly imprint [on Your heart] the reproach of Your servants, scorned and insulted, how I bear in my bosom the reproach of all the many and mighty peoples," 
Psalms89:51 With which Your enemies have taunted, O Lord, with which they have mocked the footsteps of Your anointed." 
Psalms89:52 Blessed be the Lord forevermore! Amen and Amen. 
Psalms90:1 A Prayer of Moses the man of God. LORD, YOU have been our dwelling place and our refuge in all generations [says Moses]." 
Psalms90:2 Before the mountains were brought forth or ever You had formed and given birth to the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting You are God." 
Psalms90:3 You turn man back to dust and corruption, and say, Return, O sons of the earthborn [to the earth]!" 
Psalms90:4 For a thousand years in Your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. [II Pet. 3:8.]" 
Psalms90:5 You carry away [these disobedient people, doomed to die within forty years] as with a flood; they are as a sleep [vague and forgotten as soon as they are gone]. In the morning they are like grass which grows up," 
Psalms90:6 In the morning it flourishes and springs up; in the evening it is mown down and withers. 
Psalms90:7 For we [the Israelites in the wilderness] are consumed by Your anger, and by Your wrath are we troubled, overwhelmed, and frightened away." 
Psalms90:8 Our iniquities, our secret heart and its sins [which we would so like to conceal even from ourselves], You have set in the [revealing] light of Your countenance." 
Psalms90:9 For all our days [out here in this wilderness, says Moses] pass away in Your wrath; we spend our years as a tale that is told [for we adults know we are doomed to die soon, without reaching Canaan]. [Num. 14:26-35.]" 
Psalms90:10 The days of our years are threescore years and ten (seventy years),or even, if by reason of strength, fourscore years (eighty years); yet is their pride [in additional years] only labor and sorrow, for it is soon gone, and we fly away." 
Psalms90:11 Who knows the power of Your anger? [Who worthily connects this brevity of life with Your recognition of sin?] And Your wrath, who connects it with the reverent and worshipful fear that is due You?" 
Psalms90:12 So teach us to number our days, that we may get us a heart of wisdom." 
Psalms90:13 Turn, O Lord [from Your fierce anger]! How long,? Revoke Your sentence and be compassionate and at ease toward Your servants." 
Psalms90:14 O satisfy us with Your mercy and loving-kindness in the morning [now, before we are older], that we may rejoice and be glad all our days." 
Psalms90:15 Make us glad in proportion to the days in which You have afflicted us and to the years in which we have suffered evil. 
Psalms90:16 Let Your work [the signs of Your power] be revealed to Your servants, and Your [glorious] majesty to their children." 
Psalms90:17 And let the beauty and delightfulness and favor of the Lord our God be upon us; confirm and establish the work of our hands,yes, the work of our hands, confirm and establish it." 
Psalms91:1 HE WHO dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall remain stable and fixed under the shadow of the Almighty [Whose power no foe can withstand]. 
Psalms91:2 I will say of the Lord, He is my Refuge and my Fortress, my God; on Him I lean and rely, and in Him I [confidently] trust!" 
Psalms91:3 For [then] He will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. 
Psalms91:4 [Then] He will cover you with His pinions, and under His wings shall you trust and find refuge; His truth and His faithfulness are a shield and a buckler." 
Psalms91:5 You shall not be afraid of the terror of the night, nor of the arrow (the evil plots and slanders of the wicked) that flies by day," 
Psalms91:6 Nor of the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor of the destruction and sudden death that surprise and lay waste at noonday." 
Psalms91:7 A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand, but it shall not come near you." 
Psalms91:8 Only a spectator shall you be [yourself inaccessible in the secret place of the Most High] as you witness the reward of the wicked. 
Psalms91:9 Because you have made the Lord your refuge, and the Most High your dwelling place, [Ps. 91:1, 14.]" 
Psalms91:10 There shall no evil befall you, nor any plague or calamity come near your tent." 
Psalms91:11 For He will give His angels [especial] charge over you to accompany and defend and preserve you in all your ways [of obedience and service]. 
Psalms91:12 They shall bear you up on their hands, lest you dash your foot against a stone. [Luke 4:10, 11; Heb. 1:14.]" 
Psalms91:13 You shall tread upon the lion and adder; the young lion and the serpent shall you trample underfoot. [Luke 10:19.] 
Psalms91:14 Because he has set his love upon Me, therefore will I deliver him; I will set him on high, because he knows and understands My name [has a personal knowledge of My mercy, love, and kindness,trusts and relies on Me, knowing I will never forsake him, no, never]." 
Psalms91:15 He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him." 
Psalms91:16 With long life will I satisfy him and show him My salvation. 
Psalms92:1 A Psalm. A song for the Sabbath day. IT IS a good and delightful thing to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises [with musical accompaniment] to Your name, O Most High," 
Psalms92:2 To show forth Your loving-kindness in the morning and Your faithfulness by night," 
Psalms92:3 With an instrument of ten strings and with the lute, with a solemn sound upon the lyre." 
Psalms92:4 For You, O Lord, have made me glad by Your works; at the deeds of Your hands I joyfully sing." 
Psalms92:5 How great are Your doings, O Lord! Your thoughts are very deep." 
Psalms92:6 A man in his rude and uncultivated state knows not, neither does a [self-confident] fool understand this:" 
Psalms92:7 That though the wicked spring up like grass and all evildoers flourish, they are doomed to be destroyed forever." 
Psalms92:8 But You, Lord, are on high forever." 
Psalms92:9 For behold, Your adversaries, O Lord, for behold, Your enemies shall perish; all the evildoers shall be scattered." 
Psalms92:10 But my horn (emblem of excessive strength and stately grace) You have exalted like that of a wild ox; I am anointed with fresh oil. 
Psalms92:11 My eye looks upon those who lie in wait for me; my ears hear the evildoers that rise up against me. 
Psalms92:12 The [uncompromisingly] righteous shall flourish like the palm tree [be long-lived, stately, upright, useful, and fruitful]; they shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon [majestic, stable, durable, and incorruptible]." 
Psalms92:13 Planted in the house of the Lord, they shall flourish in the courts of our God." 
Psalms92:14 [Growing in grace] they shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be full of sap [of spiritual vitality] and [rich in the] verdure [of trust, love, and contentment]." 
Psalms92:15 [They are living memorials] to show that the Lord is upright and faithful to His promises; He is my Rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him. [Rom. 9:14.]" 
Psalms93:1 THE LORD reigns, He is clothed with majesty; the Lord is robed, He has girded Himself with strength and power; the world also is established, that it cannot be moved." 
Psalms93:2 Your throne is established from of old; You are from everlasting. 
Psalms93:3 The floods have lifted up, O Lord, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up the roaring of their waves." 
Psalms93:4 The Lord on high is mightier and more glorious than the noise of many waters, yes, than the mighty breakers and waves of the sea." 
Psalms93:5 Your testimonies are very sure; holiness [apparent in separation from sin, with simple trust and hearty obedience] is becoming to Your house, O Lord, forever." 
Psalms94:1 O LORD God, You to Whom vengeance belongs, O God, You to Whom vengeance belongs, shine forth!" 
Psalms94:2 Rise up, O Judge of the earth; render to the proud a fit compensation!" 
Psalms94:3 Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph and exult?" 
Psalms94:4 They pour out arrogant words, speaking hard things; all the evildoers boast loftily. [Jude 14, 15.]" 
Psalms94:5 They crush Your people, O Lord, and afflict Your heritage." 
Psalms94:6 They slay the widow and the transient stranger and murder the unprotected orphan. 
Psalms94:7 Yet they say, The Lord does not see, neither does the God of Jacob notice it." 
Psalms94:8 Consider and understand, you stupid ones among the people! And you [self-confident] fools, when will you become wise?" 
Psalms94:9 He Who planted the ear, shall He not hear? He Who formed the eye, shall He not see?" 
Psalms94:10 He Who disciplines and instructs the nations, shall He not punish, He Who teaches man knowledge?" 
Psalms94:11 The Lord knows the thoughts of man, that they are vain (empty and futile,only a breath). [I Cor. 3:20.]" 
Psalms94:12 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man whom You discipline and instruct, O Lord, and teach out of Your law," 
Psalms94:13 That You may give him power to keep himself calm in the days of adversity, until the [inevitable] pit of corruption is dug for the wicked." 
Psalms94:14 For the Lord will not cast off nor spurn His people, neither will He abandon His heritage." 
Psalms94:15 For justice will return to the [uncompromisingly] righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it." 
Psalms94:16 Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? 
Psalms94:17 Unless the Lord had been my help, I would soon have dwelt in [the land where there is] silence." 
Psalms94:18 When I said, My foot is slipping, Your mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord, held me up." 
Psalms94:19 In the multitude of my [anxious] thoughts within me, Your comforts cheer and delight my soul!" 
Psalms94:20 Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with You,they who frame and hide their unrighteous doings under [the sacred name of] law? 
Psalms94:21 They band themselves together against the life of the [consistently] righteous and condemn the innocent to death. 
Psalms94:22 But the Lord has become my High Tower and Defense, and my God the Rock of my refuge." 
Psalms94:23 And He will turn back upon them their own iniquity and will wipe them out by means of their own wickedness; the Lord our God will wipe them out. 
Psalms95:1 O COME, let us sing to the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to the Rock of our salvation!" 
Psalms95:2 Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to Him with songs of praise! 
Psalms95:3 For the Lord is a great God, and a great King above all gods." 
Psalms95:4 In His hand are the deep places of the earth; the heights and strength of the hills are His also. 
Psalms95:5 The sea is His, for He made it; and His hands formed the dry land." 
Psalms95:6 O come, let us worship and bow down, let us kneel before the Lord our Maker [in reverent praise and supplication]." 
Psalms95:7 For He is our God and we are the people of His pasture and the sheep of His hand. Today, if you will hear His voice, [Heb. 3:7-11.]" 
Psalms95:8 Harden not your hearts as at Meribah and as at Massah in the day of temptation in the wilderness, [Exod. 17:1-7; Num. 20:1-13; Deut. 6:16.]" 
Psalms95:9 When your fathers tried My patience and tested Me, proved Me, and saw My work [of judgment]." 
Psalms95:10 Forty years long was I grieved and disgusted with that generation, and I said, It is a people that do err in their hearts, and they do not approve, acknowledge, or regard My ways." 
Psalms95:11 Wherefore I swore in My wrath that they would not enter My rest [the land of promise]. [Heb. 4:3-11.] 
Psalms96:1 O SING to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth!" 
Psalms96:2 Sing to the Lord, bless (affectionately praise) His name; show forth His salvation from day to day." 
Psalms96:3 Declare His glory among the nations, His marvelous works among all the peoples." 
Psalms96:4 For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised; He is to be reverently feared and worshiped above all [so-called] gods. [Deut. 6:5; Rev. 14:7.] 
Psalms96:5 For all the gods of the nations are [lifeless] idols, but the Lord made the heavens." 
Psalms96:6 Honor and majesty are before Him; strength and beauty are in His sanctuary. 
Psalms96:7 Ascribe to the Lord, O you families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength." 
Psalms96:8 Give to the Lord the glory due His name; bring an offering and come [before Him] into His courts. 
Psalms96:9 O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; tremble before and reverently fear Him, all the earth." 
Psalms96:10 Say among the nations that the Lord reigns; the world also is established, so that it cannot be moved; He shall judge and rule the people righteously and with justice. [Rev. 11:15; 19:6.]" 
Psalms96:11 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar, and all the things which fill it;" 
Psalms96:12 Let the field be exultant, and all that is in it! Then shall all the trees of the wood sing for joy" 
Psalms96:13 Before the Lord, for He comes, for He comes to judge and govern the earth! He shall judge the world with righteousness and justice and the peoples with His faithfulness and truth. [I Chron. 16:23-33; Rev. 19:11.]" 
Psalms97:1 THE LORD reigns, let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles and coastlands be glad!" 
Psalms97:2 Clouds and darkness are round about Him [as at Sinai]; righteousness and justice are the foundation of His throne. [Exod. 19:9.] 
Psalms97:3 Fire goes before Him and burns up His adversaries round about. 
Psalms97:4 His lightnings illumine the world; the earth sees and trembles. 
Psalms97:5 The hills melted like wax at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth." 
Psalms97:6 The heavens declare His righteousness, and all the peoples see His glory." 
Psalms97:7 Let all those be put to shame who serve graven images, who boast in idols. Fall prostrate before Him, all you gods. [Heb. 1:6.]" 
Psalms97:8 Zion heard and was glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoiced [in relief] because of Your judgments, O Lord." 
Psalms97:9 For You, Lord, are high above all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods." 
Psalms97:10 O you who love the Lord, hate evil; He preserves the lives of His saints (the children of God), He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked. [Rom. 8:13-17.]" 
Psalms97:11 Light is sown for the [uncompromisingly] righteous and strewn along their pathway, and joy for the upright in heart [the irrepressible joy which comes from consciousness of His favor and protection]." 
Psalms97:12 Rejoice in the Lord, you [consistently] righteous (upright and in right standing with God), and give thanks at the remembrance of His holiness." 
Psalms98:1 A Psalm. O SING to the Lord a new song, for He has done marvelous things; His right hand and His holy arm have wrought salvation for Him." 
Psalms98:2 The Lord has made known His salvation; His righteousness has He openly shown in the sight of the nations. [Luke 2:30, 31.]" 
Psalms98:3 He has [earnestly] remembered His mercy and loving-kindness, His truth and His faithfulness toward the house of Israel; all the ends of the earth have witnessed the salvation of our God. [Acts 13:47; 28:28.]" 
Psalms98:4 Make a joyful noise to the Lord, all the earth; break forth and sing for joy, yes, sing praises!" 
Psalms98:5 Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the voice of melody." 
Psalms98:6 With trumpets and the sound of the horn make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord!" 
Psalms98:7 Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, the world, and those who dwell in it!" 
Psalms98:8 Let the rivers clap their hands; together let the hills sing for joy 
Psalms98:9 Before the Lord, for He is coming to judge [and rule] the earth; with righteousness will He judge [and rule] the world, and the peoples with equity." 
Psalms99:1 THE LORD reigns, let the peoples tremble [with reverential fear]! He sits [enthroned] above the cherubim, let the earth quake!" 
Psalms99:2 The Lord is great in Zion, and He is high above all the peoples." 
Psalms99:3 Let them confess and praise Your great name, awesome and reverence inspiring! It is holy, and holy is He! [Rev. 15:4.]" 
Psalms99:4 The strength of the king who loves righteousness and equity You establish in uprightness; You execute justice and righteousness in Jacob (Israel). 
Psalms99:5 Extol the Lord our God and worship at His footstool! Holy is He! 
Psalms99:6 Moses and Aaron were among His priests, and Samuel was among those who called upon His name; they called upon the Lord, and He answered them." 
Psalms99:7 He spoke to them in the pillar of cloud; they kept His testimonies and the statutes that He gave them. [Ps. 105:9, 10.]" 
Psalms99:8 You answered them, O Lord our God; You were a forgiving God to them, although avenging their evildoing and wicked practices." 
Psalms99:9 Extol the Lord our God and worship at His holy hill, for the Lord our God is holy!" 
Psalms100:1 A Psalm of thanksgiving and for the thank offering. MAKE A joyful noise to the Lord, all you lands!" 
Psalms100:2 Serve the Lord with gladness! Come before His presence with singing! 
Psalms100:3 Know (perceive, recognize, and understand with approval) that the Lord is God! It is He Who has made us, not we ourselves [and we are His]! We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. [Eph. 2:10.]" 
Psalms100:4 Enter into His gates with thanksgiving and a thank offering and into His courts with praise! Be thankful and say so to Him, bless and affectionately praise His name!" 
Psalms100:5 For the Lord is good; His mercy and loving-kindness are everlasting, His faithfulness and truth endure to all generations." 
Psalms101:1 A Psalm of David. I WILL sing of mercy and loving-kindness and justice; to You, O Lord, will I sing." 
Psalms101:2 I will behave myself wisely and give heed to the blameless way,O when will You come to me? I will walk within my house in integrity and with a blameless heart. 
Psalms101:3 I will set no base or wicked thing before my eyes. I hate the work of them who turn aside [from the right path]; it shall not grasp hold of me. 
Psalms101:4 A perverse heart shall depart from me; I will know no evil person or thing. 
Psalms101:5 Whoso privily slanders his neighbor, him will I cut off [from me]; he who has a haughty look and a proud and arrogant heart I cannot and I will not tolerate." 
Psalms101:6 My eyes shall [look with favor] upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me; he who walks blamelessly, he shall minister to me." 
Psalms101:7 He who works deceit shall not dwell in my house; he who tells lies shall not continue in my presence. 
Psalms101:8 Morning after morning I will root up all the wicked in the land, that I may eliminate all the evildoers from the city of the Lord." 
Psalms102:1 A Prayer of the afflicted; when he is overwhelmed and faint and pours out his complaint to God. HEAR MY prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come to You." 
Psalms102:2 Hide not Your face from me in the day when I am in distress! Incline Your ear to me; in the day when I call, answer me speedily." 
Psalms102:3 For my days consume away like smoke, and my bones burn like a firebrand or like a hearth." 
Psalms102:4 My heart is smitten like grass and withered, so that [in absorption] I forget to eat my food." 
Psalms102:5 By reason of my loud groaning [from suffering and trouble] my flesh cleaves to my bones. 
Psalms102:6 I am like a melancholy pelican or vulture of the wilderness; I am like a [desolate] owl of the waste places. 
Psalms102:7 I am sleepless and lie awake [mourning], like a bereaved sparrow alone on the housetop." 
Psalms102:8 My adversaries taunt and reproach me all the day; and they who are angry with me use my name as a curse. 
Psalms102:9 For I have eaten the ashes [in which I sat] as if they were bread and have mingled my drink with weeping 
Psalms102:10 Because of Your indignation and Your wrath, for You have taken me up and cast me away." 
Psalms102:11 My days are like an evening shadow that stretches out and declines [with the sun]; and I am withered like grass. 
Psalms102:12 But You, O Lord, are enthroned forever; and the fame of Your name endures to all generations." 
Psalms102:13 You will arise and have mercy and loving-kindness for Zion, for it is time to have pity and compassion for her; yes, the set time has come [the moment designated]. [Ps. 12:5; 119:126.]" 
Psalms102:14 For Your servants take [melancholy] pleasure in the stones [of her ruins] and show pity for her dust. 
Psalms102:15 So the nations shall fear and worshipfully revere the name of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth Your glory. [Ps. 96:9.]" 
Psalms102:16 When the Lord builds up Zion, He will appear in His glory;" 
Psalms102:17 He will regard the plea of the destitute and will not despise their prayer. 
Psalms102:18 Let this be recorded for the generation yet unborn, that a people yet to be created shall praise the Lord." 
Psalms102:19 For He looked down from the height of His sanctuary, from heaven did the Lord behold the earth," 
Psalms102:20 To hear the sighing and groaning of the prisoner, to loose those who are appointed to death," 
Psalms102:21 So that men may declare the name of the Lord in Zion and His praise in Jerusalem 
Psalms102:22 When peoples are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to worship and serve the Lord." 
Psalms102:23 He has afflicted and weakened my strength, humbling and bringing me low [with sorrow] in the way; He has shortened my days [aging me prematurely]." 
Psalms102:24 I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days, You Whose years continue throughout all generations." 
Psalms102:25 At the beginning You existed and laid the foundations of the earth; the heavens are the work of Your hands. 
Psalms102:26 They shall perish, but You shall remain and endure; yes, all of them shall wear out and become old like a garment. Like clothing You shall change them, and they shall be changed and pass away." 
Psalms102:27 But You remain the same, and Your years shall have no end. [Heb. 1:10-12.]" 
Psalms102:28 The children of Your servants shall dwell safely and continue, and their descendants shall be established before You." 
Psalms103:1 [A Psalm] of David. BLESS (AFFECTIONATELY, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul; and all that is [deepest] within me, bless His holy name!" 
Psalms103:2 Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul, and forget not [one of] all His benefits," 
Psalms103:3 Who forgives [every one of] all your iniquities, Who heals [each one of] all your diseases," 
Psalms103:4 Who redeems your life from the pit and corruption, Who beautifies, dignifies, and crowns you with loving-kindness and tender mercy;" 
Psalms103:5 Who satisfies your mouth [your necessity and desire at your personal age and situation] with good so that your youth, renewed, is like the eagle's [strong, overcoming, soaring]! [Isa. 40:31.]" 
Psalms103:6 The Lord executes righteousness and justice [not for me only, but] for all who are oppressed." 
Psalms103:7 He made known His ways [of righteousness and justice] to Moses, His acts to the children of Israel." 
Psalms103:8 The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy and loving-kindness. [James 5:11.]" 
Psalms103:9 He will not always chide or be contending, neither will He keep His anger forever or hold a grudge." 
Psalms103:10 He has not dealt with us after our sins nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. 
Psalms103:11 For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great are His mercy and loving-kindness toward those who reverently and worshipfully fear Him." 
Psalms103:12 As far as the east is from the west, so far has He removed our transgressions from us." 
Psalms103:13 As a father loves and pities his children, so the Lord loves and pities those who fear Him [with reverence, worship, and awe]." 
Psalms103:14 For He knows our frame, He [earnestly] remembers and imprints [on His heart] that we are dust." 
Psalms103:15 As for man, his days are as grass; as a flower of the field, so he flourishes." 
Psalms103:16 For the wind passes over it and it is gone, and its place shall know it no more." 
Psalms103:17 But the mercy and loving-kindness of the Lord are from everlasting to everlasting upon those who reverently and worshipfully fear Him, and His righteousness is to children's children,[Deut. 10:12.]" 
Psalms103:18 To such as keep His covenant [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it] and to those who [earnestly] remember His commandments to do them [imprinting them on their hearts]." 
Psalms103:19 The Lord has established His throne in the heavens, and His kingdom rules over all." 
Psalms103:20 Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, you His angels, you mighty ones who do His commandments, hearkening to the voice of His word." 
Psalms103:21 Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, all you His hosts, you His ministers who do His pleasure." 
Psalms103:22 Bless the Lord, all His works in all places of His dominion; bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul!" 
Psalms104:1 BLESS (AFFECTIONATELY, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, You are very great! You are clothed with honor and majesty," 
Psalms104:2 [You are the One] Who covers Yourself with light as with a garment, Who stretches out the heavens like a curtain or a tent," 
Psalms104:3 Who lays the beams of the upper room of His abode in the waters [above the firmament], Who makes the clouds His chariot, Who walks on the wings of the wind," 
Psalms104:4 Who makes winds His messengers, flames of fire His ministers. [Heb. 1:7.]" 
Psalms104:5 You laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be moved forever. [Job 38:4, 6.]" 
Psalms104:5 You laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be moved forever. [Job 38:4, 6.]" 
Psalms104:6 You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains. [Gen. 1:2; II Pet. 3:5.] 
Psalms104:7 At Your rebuke they fled; at the voice of Your thunder they hastened away. 
Psalms104:8 The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place which You appointed for them." 
Psalms104:9 You have set a boundary [for the waters] which they may not pass over, that they turn not again to deluge the earth." 
Psalms104:10 He sends forth springs into the valleys; their waters run among the mountains. 
Psalms104:11 They give drink to every [wild] beast of the field; the wild asses quench their thirst there. 
Psalms104:12 Beside them the birds of the heavens have their nests; they sing among the branches. [Matt. 13:32.] 
Psalms104:13 He waters the mountains from His upper rooms; the earth is satisfied and abounds with the fruit of His works. 
Psalms104:14 He causes vegetation to grow for the cattle, and all that the earth produces for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food out of the earth," 
Psalms104:15 And wine that gladdens the heart of man, to make his face shine more than oil, and bread to support, refresh, and strengthen man's heart." 
Psalms104:16 The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly and are filled with sap, the cedars of Lebanon which He has planted," 
Psalms104:17 Where the birds make their nests; as for the stork, the fir trees are her house." 
Psalms104:18 The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the conies and badgers. 
Psalms104:19 [The Lord] appointed the moon for the seasons; the sun knows [the exact time of] its setting. 
Psalms104:20 You [O Lord] make darkness and it becomes night, in which creeps forth every wild beast of the forest." 
Psalms104:21 The young lions roar after their prey and seek their food from God. 
Psalms104:22 When the sun arises, they withdraw themselves and lie down in their dens." 
Psalms104:23 Man goes forth to his work and remains at his task until evening. 
Psalms104:24 O Lord, how many and varied are Your works! In wisdom have You made them all; the earth is full of Your riches and Your creatures." 
Psalms104:25 Yonder is the sea, great and wide, in which are swarms of innumerable creeping things, creatures both small and great." 
Psalms104:26 There go the ships of the sea, and Leviathan (the sea monster), which You have formed to sport in it." 
Psalms104:27 These all wait and are dependent upon You, that You may give them their food in due season." 
Psalms104:28 When You give it to them, they gather it up; You open Your hand, and they are filled with good things." 
Psalms104:29 When You hide Your face, they are troubled and dismayed; when You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust." 
Psalms104:30 When You send forth Your Spirit and give them breath, they are created, and You replenish the face of the ground." 
Psalms104:31 May the glory of the Lord endure forever; may the Lord rejoice in His works, 
Psalms104:32 Who looks on the earth, and it quakes and trembles, Who touches the mountains, and they smoke!" 
Psalms104:33 I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have any being. 
Psalms104:34 May my meditation be sweet to Him; as for me, I will rejoice in the Lord." 
Psalms104:35 Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless (affectionately, gratefully praise) the Lord, O my soul! Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!)" 
Psalms105:1 O GIVE thanks unto the Lord, call upon His name, make known His doings among the peoples!" 
Psalms105:2 Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; meditate on and talk of all His marvelous deeds and devoutly praise them." 
Psalms105:3 Glory in His holy name; let the hearts of those rejoice who seek and require the Lord [as their indispensable necessity]. 
Psalms105:4 Seek, inquire of and for the Lord, and crave Him and His strength (His might and inflexibility to temptation); seek and require His face and His presence [continually] evermore." 
Psalms105:5 [Earnestly] remember the marvelous deeds that He has done, His miracles and wonders, the judgments and sentences which He pronounced [upon His enemies, as in Egypt]. [Ps. 78:43-51.]" 
Psalms105:6 O you offspring of Abraham His servant, you children of Jacob, His chosen ones," 
Psalms105:7 He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
Psalms105:8 He is [earnestly] mindful of His covenant and forever it is imprinted on His heart, the word which He commanded and established to a thousand generations," 
Psalms105:9 The covenant which He made with Abraham, and His sworn promise to Isaac, [Luke 1:72, 73.]" 
Psalms105:10 Which He confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant," 
Psalms105:11 Saying, Unto you will I give the land of Canaan as your measured portion, possession, and inheritance." 
Psalms105:12 When they were but a few men in number, in fact, very few, and were temporary residents and strangers in it," 
Psalms105:13 When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people," 
Psalms105:14 He allowed no man to do them wrong; in fact, He reproved kings for their sakes, [Gen. 12:17; 20:3-7.]" 
Psalms105:15 Saying, Touch not My anointed, and do My prophets no harm. [I Chron. 16:8-22.]" 
Psalms105:16 Moreover, He called for a famine upon the land [of Egypt]; He cut off every source of bread. [Gen. 41:54.]" 
Psalms105:17 He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold as a servant. [Gen. 45:5; 50:20, 21.]" 
Psalms105:18 His feet they hurt with fetters; he was laid in chains of iron and his soul entered into the iron," 
Psalms105:19 Until his word [to his cruel brothers] came true, until the word of the Lord tried and tested him." 
Psalms105:20 The king sent and loosed him, even the ruler of the peoples, and let him go free." 
Psalms105:21 He made Joseph lord of his house and ruler of all his substance, [Gen. 41:40.]" 
Psalms105:22 To bind his princes at his pleasure and teach his elders wisdom. 
Psalms105:23 Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. [Gen. 46:6.] 
Psalms105:24 There [the Lord] greatly increased His people and made them stronger than their oppressors. 
Psalms105:25 He turned the hearts [of the Egyptians] to hate His people, to deal craftily with His servants." 
Psalms105:26 He sent Moses His servant, and Aaron, whom He had chosen." 
Psalms105:27 They showed His signs among them, wonders and miracles in the land of Ham (Egypt)." 
Psalms105:28 He sent [thick] darkness and made the land dark, and they [God's two servants] rebelled not against His word. [Exod. 10:22; Ps. 99:7.]" 
Psalms105:29 He turned [Egypt's] waters into blood and caused their fish to die. [Exod. 7:20, 21.]" 
Psalms105:30 Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, even in the chambers of their kings. [Exod. 8:6.]" 
Psalms105:31 He spoke, and there came swarms of beetles and flies and mosquitoes and lice in all their borders. [Exod. 8:17, 24.]" 
Psalms105:32 He gave them hail for rain, with lightning like flaming fire in their land. [Exod. 9:23, 25.]" 
Psalms105:33 He smote their vines also and their fig trees and broke the [ice-laden] trees of their borders. [Ps. 78:47.] 
Psalms105:34 He spoke, and the locusts came, and the grasshoppers, and that without number, [Exod. 10:4, 13, 14.]" 
Psalms105:35 And ate up all the vegetation in their land and devoured the fruit of their ground. 
Psalms105:36 He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the beginning and chief substance of all their strength. [Exod. 12:29; Ps. 78:51.]" 
Psalms105:37 He brought [Israel] forth also with silver and gold, and there was not one feeble person among their tribes. [Exod. 12:35.]" 
Psalms105:38 Egypt was glad when they departed, for the fear of them had fallen upon the people. [Exod. 12:33.]" 
Psalms105:39 The Lord spread a cloud for a covering [by day], and a fire to give light in the night. [Exod. 13:21.]" 
Psalms105:40 [The Israelites] asked, and He brought quails and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. [Exod. 16:12-15.]" 
Psalms105:41 He opened the rock, and water gushed out; it ran in the dry places like a river. [Exod. 17:6; Num. 20:11.]" 
Psalms105:42 For He [earnestly] remembered His holy word and promise to Abraham His servant. [Gen. 15:14.] 
Psalms105:43 And He brought forth His people with joy, and His chosen ones with gladness and singing," 
Psalms105:44 And gave them the lands of the nations [of Canaan], and they reaped the fruits of those peoples' labor, [Deut. 6:10, 11.]" 
Psalms105:45 That they might observe His statutes and keep His laws [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!)" 
Psalms106:1 PRAISE THE Lord! (Hallelujah!) O give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever! [I Chron. 16:34.]" 
Psalms106:2 Who can put into words and tell the mighty deeds of the Lord? Or who can show forth all the praise [that is due Him]? 
Psalms106:3 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are those who observe justice [treating others fairly] and who do right and are in right standing with God at all times." 
Psalms106:4 [Earnestly] remember me, O Lord, when You favor Your people! O visit me also when You deliver them, and grant me Your salvation!," 
Psalms106:5 That I may see and share the welfare of Your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of Your nation, that I may glory with Your heritage." 
Psalms106:6 We have sinned, as did also our fathers; we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. [Lev. 26:40-42.]" 
Psalms106:7 Our fathers in Egypt understood not nor appreciated Your miracles; they did not [earnestly] remember the multitude of Your mercies nor imprint Your loving-kindness [on their hearts], but they were rebellious and provoked the Lord at the sea, even at the Red Sea. [Exod. 14:21.]" 
Psalms106:8 Nevertheless He saved them for His name's sake [to prove the righteousness of the divine character], that He might make His mighty power known." 
Psalms106:9 He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it dried up; so He led them through the depths as through a pastureland. [Exod. 14:21.]" 
Psalms106:10 And He saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the [Egyptian] enemy. [Exod. 14:30.]" 
Psalms106:11 And the waters covered their adversaries; not one of them was left. [Exod. 14:27, 28; 15:5.]" 
Psalms106:12 Then [Israel] believed His words [trusting in, relying on them]; they sang His praise." 
Psalms106:13 But they hastily forgot His works; they did not [earnestly] wait for His plans [to develop] regarding them," 
Psalms106:14 But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness and tempted and tried to restrain God [with their insistent desires] in the desert. [Num. 11:4.] 
Psalms106:15 And He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their souls and [thinned their numbers by] disease and death. [Ps. 78:29-31.]" 
Psalms106:16 They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron [the high priest], the holy one of the Lord. [Num. 16:1-32.]" 
Psalms106:17 Therefore the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and closed over the company of Abiram. [Num. 16:31, 32.]" 
Psalms106:18 And a fire broke out in their company; the flame burned up the wicked. [Num. 16:35, 46.]" 
Psalms106:19 They made a calf in Horeb and worshiped a molten image. [Exod. 32:4.] 
Psalms106:20 Thus they exchanged Him Who was their Glory for the image of an ox that eats grass [they traded their Honor for the image of a calf]! 
Psalms106:21 They forgot God their Savior, Who had done such great things in Egypt," 
Psalms106:22 Wonders and miracles in the land of Ham, dreadful and awesome things at the Red Sea." 
Psalms106:23 Therefore He said He would destroy them. [And He would have done so] had not Moses, His chosen one, stepped into the breach before Him to turn away His threatening wrath. [Exod. 32:10, 11, 32.]" 
Psalms106:24 Then they spurned and despised the pleasant and desirable land [Canaan]; they believed not His word [neither trusting in, relying on, nor holding to it];" 
Psalms106:25 But they murmured in their tents and hearkened not to the voice of the Lord. 
Psalms106:26 Therefore He lifted up His hand [as if taking an oath] against them, that He would cause them to fall in the wilderness," 
Psalms106:27 Cast out their descendants among the nations, and scatter them in the lands [of the earth]." 
Psalms106:28 They joined themselves also to the [idol] Baal of Peor and ate sacrifices [offered] to the lifeless [gods]. 
Psalms106:29 Thus they provoked the Lord to anger with their practices, and a plague broke out among them." 
Psalms106:30 Then stood up Phinehas [the priest] and executed judgment, and so the plague was stayed. [Num. 25:7, 8.]" 
Psalms106:31 And that was credited to him for righteousness (right doing and right standing with God) to all generations forever. 
Psalms106:32 They angered the Lord also at the waters of Meribah, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes; [Num. 20:3-13.]" 
Psalms106:33 For they provoked [Moses'] spirit, so that he spoke unadvisedly with his lips." 
Psalms106:34 They did not destroy the [heathen] nations as the Lord commanded them," 
Psalms106:35 But mingled themselves with the [idolatrous] nations and learned their ways and works 
Psalms106:36 And served their idols, which were a snare to them." 
Psalms106:37 Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons [II Kings 16:3.]" 
Psalms106:38 And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; and the land was polluted with their blood." 
Psalms106:39 Thus were they defiled by their own works, and they played the harlot and practiced idolatry with their own deeds [of idolatrous rites]." 
Psalms106:40 Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against His people, insomuch that He abhorred and rejected His own heritage. [Deut. 32:17.]" 
Psalms106:41 And He gave them into the hands of the [heathen] nations, and they that hated them ruled over them." 
Psalms106:42 Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under the hand of their foes." 
Psalms106:43 Many times did [God] deliver them, but they were rebellious in their counsel and sank low through their iniquity." 
Psalms106:44 Nevertheless He regarded their distress when He heard their cry; 
Psalms106:45 And He [earnestly] remembered for their sake His covenant and relented their sentence of evil [comforting and easing Himself] according to the abundance of His mercy and loving-kindness [when they cried out to Him]. 
Psalms106:46 He also caused [Israel] to find sympathy among those who had carried them away captive. 
Psalms106:47 Deliver us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to Your holy name and glory in praising You." 
Psalms106:48 Blessed (affectionately and gratefully praised) be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, Amen! Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) [I Chron. 16:35, 36.]" 
Psalms107:1 O GIVE thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever!" 
Psalms107:2 Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom He has delivered from the hand of the adversary," 
Psalms107:3 And gathered them out of the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the [Red] Sea in the south." 
Psalms107:4 Some wandered in the wilderness in a solitary desert track; they found no city for habitation. 
Psalms107:5 Hungry and thirsty, they fainted; their lives were near to being extinguished." 
Psalms107:6 Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and He delivered them out of their distresses." 
Psalms107:7 He led them forth by the straight and right way, that they might go to a city where they could establish their homes." 
Psalms107:8 Oh, that men would praise [and confess to] the Lord for His goodness and loving-kindness and His wonderful works to the children of men!" 
Psalms107:9 For He satisfies the longing soul and fills the hungry soul with good. 
Psalms107:10 Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and in irons, [Luke 1:79.]" 
Psalms107:11 Because they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. 
Psalms107:12 Therefore He bowed down their hearts with hard labor; they stumbled and fell down, and there was none to help." 
Psalms107:13 Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and He saved them out of their distresses." 
Psalms107:14 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death and broke apart the bonds that held them. [Ps. 68:6; Acts 12:7; 16:26.] 
Psalms107:15 Oh, that men would praise [and confess to] the Lord for His goodness and loving-kindness and His wonderful works to the children of men!" 
Psalms107:16 For He has broken the gates of bronze and cut the bars of iron apart. 
Psalms107:17 Some are fools [made ill] because of the way of their transgressions and are afflicted because of their iniquities. 
Psalms107:18 They loathe every kind of food, and they draw near to the gates of death." 
Psalms107:19 Then they cry to the Lord in their trouble, and He delivers them out of their distresses." 
Psalms107:20 He sends forth His word and heals them and rescues them from the pit and destruction. [II Kings 20:4, 5; Matt. 8:8.]" 
Psalms107:21 Oh, that men would praise [and confess to] the Lord for His goodness and loving-kindness and His wonderful works to the children of men! [Heb. 13:15.]" 
Psalms107:22 And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving and rehearse His deeds with shouts of joy and singing! 
Psalms107:23 Some go down to the sea and travel over it in ships to do business in great waters; 
Psalms107:24 These see the works of the Lord and His wonders in the deep. 
Psalms107:25 For He commands and raises up the stormy wind, which lifts up the waves of the sea." 
Psalms107:26 [Those aboard] mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the deeps; their courage melts away because of their plight." 
Psalms107:27 They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man and are at their wits' end [all their wisdom has come to nothing]. 
Psalms107:28 Then they cry to the Lord in their trouble, and He brings them out of their distresses." 
Psalms107:29 He hushes the storm to a calm and to a gentle whisper, so that the waves of the sea are still. [Ps. 89:9; Matt. 8:26.]" 
Psalms107:30 Then the men are glad because of the calm, and He brings them to their desired haven." 
Psalms107:31 Oh, that men would praise [and confess to] the Lord for His goodness and loving-kindness and His wonderful works to the children of men!" 
Psalms107:32 Let them exalt Him also in the congregation of the people and praise Him in the company of the elders. 
Psalms107:33 He turns rivers into a wilderness, water springs into a thirsty ground, [I Kings 17:1, 7.]" 
Psalms107:34 A fruitful land into a barren, salt waste, because of the wickedness of those who dwell in it. [Gen. 13:10; 14:3; 19:25.]" 
Psalms107:35 He turns a wilderness into a pool of water and a dry ground into water springs; [Isa. 41:18.] 
Psalms107:36 And there He makes the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation," 
Psalms107:37 And sow fields, and plant vineyards which yield fruits of increase." 
Psalms107:38 He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly, and allows not their cattle to decrease." 
Psalms107:39 When they are diminished and bowed down through oppression, trouble, and sorrow," 
Psalms107:40 He pours contempt upon princes and causes them to wander in waste places where there is no road. 
Psalms107:41 Yet He raises the poor and needy from affliction and makes their families like a flock. 
Psalms107:42 The upright shall see it and be glad, but all iniquity shall shut its mouth." 
Psalms107:43 Whoso is wise [if there be any truly wise] will observe and heed these things; and they will diligently consider the mercy and loving-kindness of the Lord. 
Psalms108:1 A song. A Psalm of David. O GOD, my heart is fixed (steadfast, in the confidence of faith); I will sing, yes, I will sing praises, even with my glory [all the faculties and powers of one created in Your image]!" 
Psalms108:2 Awake, harp and lyre; I myself will wake very early,I will waken the dawn!" 
Psalms108:3 I will praise and give thanks to You, O Lord, among the peoples; and I will sing praises unto You among the nations." 
Psalms108:4 For Your mercy and loving-kindness are great and high as the heavens! Your truth and faithfulness reach to the skies! [Ps. 57:7-11.] 
Psalms108:5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, and let Your glory be over all the earth." 
Psalms108:6 That Your beloved [followers] may be delivered, save with Your right hand and answer us! [or me]!" 
Psalms108:7 God has promised in His holiness [regarding the establishment of David's dynasty]: I will rejoice, I will distribute [Canaan among My people], dividing Shechem and [the western region and allotting the eastern region which contains] the Valley of Succoth." 
Psalms108:8 Gilead is Mine, Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is My stronghold and the defense of My head; Judah is My scepter and lawgiver. [Gen. 49:10.]" 
Psalms108:9 Moab is My washbasin; upon Edom [My slave] My shoe I cast [to be cleaned]; over Philistia I shout [in triumph]. 
Psalms108:10 Who will bring me [David] into the strong, fortified city [of Petra]? Who will lead me into Edom?" 
Psalms108:11 Have You not cast us off, O God? And will You not go forth, O God, with our armies?" 
Psalms108:12 Give us help against the adversary, for vain is the help of man." 
Psalms108:13 Through and with God we shall do valiantly, for He it is Who shall tread down our adversaries. [Ps. 60:5-12.]" 
Psalms109:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. O GOD of my praise! Keep not silence," 
Psalms109:2 For the mouths of the wicked and the mouth of deceit are opened against me; they have spoken to me and against me with lying tongues. 
Psalms109:3 They have compassed me about also with words of hatred and have fought against me without a cause. 
Psalms109:4 In return for my love they are my adversaries, but I resort to prayer." 
Psalms109:5 And they have rewarded and laid upon me evil for good, and hatred for my love." 
Psalms109:6 Set a wicked man over him [as a judge], and let [a malicious] accuser stand at his right hand." 
Psalms109:7 When [the wicked] is judged, let him be condemned, and let his prayer [for leniency] be turned into a sin." 
Psalms109:8 Let his days be few; and let another take his office and charge. [Acts 1:20.] 
Psalms109:9 Let his children be fatherless and his wife a widow. 
Psalms109:10 Let his children be continual vagabonds [as was Cain] and beg; let them seek their bread and be driven far from their ruined homes. [Gen. 4:12.] 
Psalms109:11 Let the creditor and extortioner seize all that he has; and let strangers (barbarians and foreigners) plunder the fruits of his labor. 
Psalms109:12 Let there be none to extend or continue mercy and kindness to him, neither let there be any to have pity on his fatherless children." 
Psalms109:13 Let his posterity be cut off, and in the generation following let their names be blotted out." 
Psalms109:14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
Psalms109:15 Let them be before the Lord continually, that He may cut off the memory of them from the earth!," 
Psalms109:16 Because the man did not [earnestly] remember to show mercy, but pursued and persecuted the poor and needy man, and the broken in heart [he was ready] to slay." 
Psalms109:17 Yes, he loved cursing, and it came [back] upon him; he delighted not in blessing, and it was far from him." 
Psalms109:18 He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment, and it seeped into his inward [life] like water, and like oil into his bones." 
Psalms109:19 Let it be to him as the raiment with which he covers himself and as the girdle with which he is girded continually. 
Psalms109:20 Let this be the reward of my adversaries from the Lord, and of those who speak evil against my life." 
Psalms109:21 But You deal with me and act for me, O God the Lord, for Your name's sake; because Your mercy and loving-kindness are good, O deliver me." 
Psalms109:22 For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded and stricken within me." 
Psalms109:23 I am gone like the shadow when it lengthens and declines; I toss up and down and am shaken off as the locust. 
Psalms109:24 My knees are weak and totter from fasting; and my body is gaunt and has no fatness. 
Psalms109:25 I have become also a reproach and a taunt to others; when they see me, they shake their heads. [Matt. 26:39.]" 
Psalms109:26 Help me, O Lord my God; O save me according to Your mercy and loving-kindness!," 
Psalms109:27 That they may know that this is Your hand, that You, Lord, have done it." 
Psalms109:28 Let them curse, but do You bless. When adversaries arise, let them be put to shame, but let Your servant rejoice." 
Psalms109:29 Let my adversaries be clothed with shame and dishonor, and let them cover themselves with their own disgrace and confusion as with a robe." 
Psalms109:30 I will give great praise and thanks to the Lord with my mouth; yes, and I will praise Him among the multitude." 
Psalms109:31 For He will stand at the right hand of the poor and needy, to save him from those who condemn his life." 
Psalms110:1 A Psalm of David. THE LORD (God) says to my Lord (the Messiah), Sit at My right hand, until I make Your adversaries Your footstool. [Matt. 26:64; Acts 2:34; I Cor. 15:25; Col. 3:1; Heb. 12:2.]" 
Psalms110:2 The Lord will send forth from Zion the scepter of Your strength; rule, then, in the midst of Your foes. [Rom. 11:26, 27.]" 
Psalms110:3 Your people will offer themselves willingly in the day of Your power, in the beauty of holiness and in holy array out of the womb of the morning; to You [will spring forth] Your young men, who are as the dew." 
Psalms110:4 The Lord has sworn and will not revoke or change it: You are a priest forever, after the manner and order of Melchizedek. [Heb. 5:10; 7:11, 15, 21.]" 
Psalms110:5 The Lord at Your right hand will shatter kings in the day of His indignation. 
Psalms110:6 He will execute judgment [in overwhelming punishment] upon the nations; He will fill the valleys with the dead bodies, He will crush the [chief] heads over lands many and far extended. [Ezek. 38:21, 22; 39:11, 12.]" 
Psalms110:7 He will drink of the brook by the way; therefore will He lift up His head [triumphantly]. 
Psalms111:1 PRAISE THE Lord! (Hallelujah!) I will praise and give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart in the council of the upright and in the congregation. 
Psalms111:2 The works of the Lord are great, sought out by all those who have delight in them." 
Psalms111:3 His work is honorable and glorious, and His righteousness endures forever." 
Psalms111:4 He has made His wonderful works to be remembered; the Lord is gracious, merciful, and full of loving compassion." 
Psalms111:5 He has given food and provision to those who reverently and worshipfully fear Him; He will remember His covenant forever and imprint it [on His mind]. [Deut. 10:12; Ps. 96:9.] 
Psalms111:6 He has declared and shown to His people the power of His works in giving them the heritage of the nations [of Canaan]. 
Psalms111:7 The works of His hands are [absolute] truth and justice [faithful and right]; and all His decrees and precepts are sure (fixed, established, and trustworthy)." 
Psalms111:8 They stand fast and are established forever and ever and are done in [absolute] truth and uprightness. 
Psalms111:9 He has sent redemption to His people; He has commanded His covenant to be forever; holy is His name, inspiring awe, reverence, and godly fear." 
Psalms111:10 The reverent fear and worship of the Lord is the beginning of Wisdom and skill [the preceding and the first essential, the prerequisite and the alphabet]; a good understanding, wisdom, and meaning have all those who do [the will of the Lord]. Their praise of Him endures forever. [Job. 28:28; Prov. 1:7; Matt. 22:37, 38; Rev. 14:7.]" 
Psalms111:10 The reverent fear and worship of the Lord is the beginning of Wisdom and skill [the preceding and the first essential, the prerequisite and the alphabet]; a good understanding, wisdom, and meaning have all those who do [the will of the Lord]. Their praise of Him endures forever. [Job. 28:28; Prov. 1:7; Matt. 22:37, 38; Rev. 14:7.]" 
Psalms112:1 PRAISE THE Lord! (Hallelujah!) Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who fears (reveres and worships) the Lord, who delights greatly in His commandments. [Deut. 10:12.]" 
Psalms112:2 His [spiritual] offspring shall be mighty upon earth; the generation of the upright shall be blessed. 
Psalms112:3 Prosperity and welfare are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever." 
Psalms112:4 Light arises in the darkness for the upright, gracious, compassionate, and just [who are in right standing with God]." 
Psalms112:5 It is well with the man who deals generously and lends, who conducts his affairs with justice. [Ps. 37:26; Luke 6:35; Col. 4:5.]" 
Psalms112:6 He will not be moved forever; the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) shall be in everlasting remembrance. [Prov. 10:7.]" 
Psalms112:7 He shall not be afraid of evil tidings; his heart is firmly fixed, trusting (leaning on and being confident) in the Lord." 
Psalms112:8 His heart is established and steady, he will not be afraid while he waits to see his desire established upon his adversaries." 
Psalms112:9 He has distributed freely [he has given to the poor and needy]; his righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) endures forever; his horn shall be exalted in honor. [II Cor. 9:9.] 
Psalms112:10 The wicked man will see it and be grieved and angered, he will gnash his teeth and disappear [in despair]; the desire of the wicked shall perish and come to nothing." 
Psalms113:1 PRAISE THE Lord! (Hallelujah!) Praise, O servants of the Lord, praise the name of the Lord!" 
Psalms113:2 Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forever 
Psalms113:3 From the rising of the sun to the going down of it and from east to west, the name of the Lord is to be praised!" 
Psalms113:4 The Lord is high above all nations, and His glory above the heavens!" 
Psalms113:5 Who is like the Lord our God, Who has His seat on high," 
Psalms113:6 Who humbles Himself to regard the heavens and the earth! [Ps. 138:6; Isa. 57:15.] 
Psalms113:7 [The Lord] raises the poor out of the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap and the dung hill," 
Psalms113:8 That He may seat them with princes, even with the princes of His people." 
Psalms113:9 He makes the barren woman to be a homemaker and a joyful mother of [spiritual] children. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) 
Psalms114:1 WHEN ISRAEL came forth out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language," 
Psalms114:2 Judah became [God's] sanctuary (the Holy Place of His habitation), and Israel His dominion. [Exod. 29:45, 46; Deut. 27:9.]" 
Psalms114:3 The [Red] Sea looked and fled; the Jordan [River] was turned back. [Exod. 14:21; Josh. 3:13, 16; Ps. 77:16.]" 
Psalms114:4 The mountains skipped like rams, the little hills like lambs." 
Psalms114:5 What ails you, O [Red] Sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?" 
Psalms114:6 You mountains, that you skip like rams, and you little hills, like lambs?" 
Psalms114:7 Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob," 
Psalms114:8 Who turned the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a fountain of waters. [Exod. 17:6; Num. 20:11.]" 
Psalms115:1 NOT TO us, O Lord, not to us but to Your name give glory, for Your mercy and loving-kindness and for the sake of Your truth and faithfulness!" 
Psalms115:2 Why should the nations say, Where is now their God?" 
Psalms115:3 But our God is in heaven; He does whatever He pleases. 
Psalms115:4 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands." 
Psalms115:5 They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;" 
Psalms115:6 They have ears, but they hear not; noses have they, but they smell not;" 
Psalms115:7 They have hands, but they handle not; feet have they, but they walk not; neither can they make a sound with their throats." 
Psalms115:8 They who make idols are like them; so are all who trust in and lean on them. [Ps. 135:15-18.] 
Psalms115:9 O Israel, trust and take refuge in the Lord! [Lean on, rely on, and be confident in Him!] He is their Help and their Shield." 
Psalms115:10 O house of Aaron [the priesthood], trust in and lean on the Lord! He is their Help and their Shield." 
Psalms115:11 You who [reverently] fear the Lord, trust in and lean on the Lord! He is their Help and their Shield." 
Psalms115:12 The Lord has been mindful of us, He will bless us: He will bless the house of Israel, He will bless the house of Aaron [the priesthood]," 
Psalms115:13 He will bless those who reverently and worshipfully fear the Lord, both small and great. [Ps. 103:11; Rev. 11:18; 19:5.]" 
Psalms115:14 May the Lord give you increase more and more, you and your children." 
Psalms115:15 May you be blessed of the Lord, Who made heaven and earth!" 
Psalms115:16 The heavens are the Lord's heavens, but the earth has He given to the children of men." 
Psalms115:17 The dead praise not the Lord, neither any who go down into silence." 
Psalms115:18 But we will bless (affectionately and gratefully praise) the Lord from this time forth and forever. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) 
Psalms116:1 I LOVE the Lord, because He has heard [and now hears] my voice and my supplications." 
Psalms116:2 Because He has inclined His ear to me, therefore will I call upon Him as long as I live." 
Psalms116:3 The cords and sorrows of death were around me, and the terrors of Sheol (the place of the dead) had laid hold of me; I suffered anguish and grief (trouble and sorrow)." 
Psalms116:4 Then called I upon the name of the Lord: O Lord, I beseech You, save my life and deliver me!" 
Psalms116:5 Gracious is the Lord, and [rigidly] righteous; yes, our God is merciful." 
Psalms116:6 The Lord preserves the simple; I was brought low, and He helped and saved me." 
Psalms116:7 Return to your rest, O my soul, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. [Matt. 11:29.]" 
Psalms116:8 For You have delivered my life from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from stumbling and falling." 
Psalms116:9 I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. 
Psalms116:10 I believed (trusted in, relied on, and clung to my God), and therefore have I spoken [even when I said], I am greatly afflicted. [II Cor. 4:13.]" 
Psalms116:11 I said in my haste, All men are deceitful and liars." 
Psalms116:12 What shall I render to the Lord for all His benefits toward me? [How can I repay Him for all His bountiful dealings?] 
Psalms116:13 I will lift up the cup of salvation and deliverance and call on the name of the Lord. 
Psalms116:14 I will pay my vows to the Lord, yes, in the presence of all His people." 
Psalms116:15 Precious (important and no light matter) in the sight of the Lord is the death of His saints (His loving ones). 
Psalms116:16 O Lord, truly I am Your servant; I am Your servant, the son of Your handmaid; You have loosed my bonds." 
Psalms116:17 I will offer to You the sacrifice of thanksgiving and will call on the name of the Lord. 
Psalms116:18 I will pay my vows to the Lord, yes, in the presence of all His people," 
Psalms116:19 In the courts of the Lord's house,in the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!)" 
Psalms117:1 O PRAISE the Lord, all you nations! Praise Him, all you people! [Rom. 15:11.]" 
Psalms117:2 For His mercy and loving-kindness are great toward us, and the truth and faithfulness of the Lord endure forever. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!)" 
Psalms118:1 O GIVE thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever!" 
Psalms118:2 Let Israel now say that His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever. 
Psalms118:3 Let the house of Aaron [the priesthood] now say that His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever. 
Psalms118:4 Let those now who reverently and worshipfully fear the Lord say that His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever. 
Psalms118:5 Out of my distress I called upon the Lord; the Lord answered me and set me free and in a large place. 
Psalms118:6 The Lord is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me? [Heb. 13:6.] 
Psalms118:7 The Lord is on my side and takes my part, He is among those who help me; therefore shall I see my desire established upon those who hate me." 
Psalms118:8 It is better to trust and take refuge in the Lord than to put confidence in man. 
Psalms118:9 It is better to trust and take refuge in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. 
Psalms118:10 All nations (the surrounding tribes) compassed me about, but in the name of the Lord I will cut them off!" 
Psalms118:11 They compassed me about, yes, they surrounded me on every side; but in the name of the Lord I will cut them off!" 
Psalms118:12 They swarmed about me like bees, they blaze up and are extinguished like a fire of thorns; in the name of the Lord I will cut them off! [Deut. 1:44.]" 
Psalms118:13 You [my adversary] thrust sorely at me that I might fall, but the Lord helped me." 
Psalms118:14 The Lord is my Strength and Song; and He has become my Salvation. 
Psalms118:15 The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents and private dwellings of the [uncompromisingly] righteous: the right hand of the Lord does valiantly and achieves strength! 
Psalms118:16 The right hand of the Lord is exalted; the right hand of the Lord does valiantly and achieves strength! 
Psalms118:17 I shall not die but live, and shall declare the works and recount the illustrious acts of the Lord." 
Psalms118:18 The Lord has chastened me sorely, but He has not given me over to death. [II Cor. 6:9.]" 
Psalms118:19 Open to me the [temple] gates of righteousness; I will enter through them, and I will confess and praise the Lord." 
Psalms118:20 This is the gate of the Lord; the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall enter through it. [Ps. 24:7.] 
Psalms118:21 I will confess, praise, and give thanks to You, for You have heard and answered me; and You have become my Salvation and Deliverer." 
Psalms118:22 The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. 
Psalms118:23 This is from the Lord and is His doing; it is marvelous in our eyes. [Matt. 21:42; Acts 4:11; I Pet. 2:7.] 
Psalms118:24 This is the day which the Lord has brought about; we will rejoice and be glad in it. 
Psalms118:25 Save now, we beseech You, O Lord; send now prosperity, O Lord, we beseech You, and give to us success!" 
Psalms118:26 Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord; we bless you from the house of the Lord [you who come into His sanctuary under His guardianship]. [Mark 11:9, 10.]" 
Psalms118:27 The Lord is God, Who has shown and given us light [He has illuminated us with grace, freedom, and joy]. Decorate the festival with leafy boughs and bind the sacrifices to be offered with thick cords [all over the priest's court, right up] to the horns of the altar." 
Psalms118:28 You are my God, and I will confess, praise, and give thanks to You; You are my God, I will extol You." 
Psalms118:29 O give thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever." 
Psalms119:1 BLESSED (HAPPY, fortunate, to be envied) are the undefiled (the upright, truly sincere, and blameless) in the way [of the revealed will of God], who walk (order their conduct and conversation) in the law of the Lord (the whole of God's revealed will)." 
Psalms119:2 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are they who keep His testimonies, and who seek, inquire for and of Him and crave Him with the whole heart." 
Psalms119:3 Yes, they do no unrighteousness [no willful wandering from His precepts]; they walk in His ways. [I John 3:9; 5:18.]" 
Psalms119:4 You have commanded us to keep Your precepts, that we should observe them diligently." 
Psalms119:5 Oh, that my ways were directed and established to observe Your statutes [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]!" 
Psalms119:6 Then shall I not be put to shame [by failing to inherit Your promises] when I have respect to all Your commandments. 
Psalms119:7 I will praise and give thanks to You with uprightness of heart when I learn [by sanctified experiences] Your righteous judgments [Your decisions against and punishments for particular lines of thought and conduct]. 
Psalms119:8 I will keep Your statutes; O forsake me not utterly. 
Psalms119:9 How shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed and keeping watch [on himself] according to Your word [conforming his life to it]. 
Psalms119:10 With my whole heart have I sought You, inquiring for and of You and yearning for You; Oh, let me not wander or step aside [either in ignorance or willfully] from Your commandments. [II Chron. 15:15.]" 
Psalms119:11 Your word have I laid up in my heart, that I might not sin against You." 
Psalms119:12 Blessed are You, O Lord; teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:13 With my lips have I declared and recounted all the ordinances of Your mouth. 
Psalms119:14 I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies as much as in all riches. 
Psalms119:15 I will meditate on Your precepts and have respect to Your ways [the paths of life marked out by Your law]. [Ps. 104:34.] 
Psalms119:16 I will delight myself in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word. 
Psalms119:17 Deal bountifully with Your servant, that I may live; and I will observe Your word [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it]. [Ps. 119:97-101.]" 
Psalms119:18 Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of Your law." 
Psalms119:19 I am a stranger and a temporary resident on the earth; hide not Your commandments from me. [Gen. 47:9; I Chron. 29:15; Ps. 39:12; II Cor. 5:6; Heb. 11:13.] 
Psalms119:20 My heart is breaking with the longing that it has for Your ordinances and judgments at all times. 
Psalms119:21 You rebuke the proud and arrogant, the accursed ones, who err and wander from Your commandments." 
Psalms119:22 Take away from me reproach and contempt, for I keep Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:23 Princes also sat and talked against me, but Your servant meditated on Your statutes." 
Psalms119:24 Your testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. 
Psalms119:25 My earthly life cleaves to the dust; revive and stimulate me according to Your word! [Ps. 143:11.] 
Psalms119:26 I have declared my ways and opened my griefs to You, and You listened to me; teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:27 Make me understand the way of Your precepts; so shall I meditate on and talk of Your wondrous works. [Ps. 145:5, 6.]" 
Psalms119:28 My life dissolves and weeps itself away for heaviness; raise me up and strengthen me according to [the promises of] Your word. 
Psalms119:29 Remove from me the way of falsehood and unfaithfulness [to You], and graciously impart Your law to me." 
Psalms119:30 I have chosen the way of truth and faithfulness; Your ordinances have I set before me. 
Psalms119:31 I cleave to Your testimonies; O Lord, put me not to shame!" 
Psalms119:32 I will [not merely walk, but] run the way of Your commandments, when You give me a heart that is willing." 
Psalms119:33 Teach me, O Lord, the way of Your statutes, and I will keep it to the end [steadfastly]." 
Psalms119:34 Give me understanding, that I may keep Your law; yes, I will observe it with my whole heart. [Prov. 2:6; James 1:5.]" 
Psalms119:35 Make me go in the path of Your commandments, for in them do I delight." 
Psalms119:36 Incline my heart to Your testimonies and not to covetousness (robbery, sensuality, unworthy riches). [Ezek. 33:31; Mark 7:21, 22; I Tim. 6:10; Heb. 13:5.]" 
Psalms119:37 Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity (idols and idolatry); and restore me to vigorous life and health in Your ways. 
Psalms119:38 Establish Your word and confirm Your promise to Your servant, which is for those who reverently fear and devotedly worship You. [Deut. 10:12; Ps. 96:9.]" 
Psalms119:39 Turn away my reproach which I fear and dread, for Your ordinances are good." 
Psalms119:40 Behold, I long for Your precepts; in Your righteousness give me renewed life." 
Psalms119:41 Let Your mercy and loving-kindness come also to me, O Lord, even Your salvation according to Your promise;" 
Psalms119:42 Then shall I have an answer for those who taunt and reproach me, for I lean on, rely on, and trust in Your word." 
Psalms119:43 And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for I hope in Your ordinances." 
Psalms119:44 I will keep Your law continually, forever and ever [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it]." 
Psalms119:45 And I will walk at liberty and at ease, for I have sought and inquired for [and desperately required] Your precepts." 
Psalms119:46 I will speak of Your testimonies also before kings and will not be put to shame. [Ps. 138:1; Matt. 10:18, 19; Acts 26:1, 2.]" 
Psalms119:47 For I will delight myself in Your commandments, which I love." 
Psalms119:48 My hands also will I lift up [in fervent supplication] to Your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on Your statutes." 
Psalms119:49 Remember [fervently] the word and promise to Your servant, in which You have caused me to hope." 
Psalms119:50 This is my comfort and consolation in my affliction: that Your word has revived me and given me life. [Rom. 15:4.] 
Psalms119:51 The proud have had me greatly in derision, yet have I not declined in my interest in or turned aside from Your law." 
Psalms119:52 When I have [earnestly] recalled Your ordinances from of old, O Lord, I have taken comfort." 
Psalms119:53 Burning indignation, terror, and sadness seize upon me because of the wicked, who forsake Your law." 
Psalms119:54 Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. 
Psalms119:55 I have [earnestly] remembered Your name, O Lord, in the night, and I have observed Your law." 
Psalms119:56 This I have had [as the gift of Your grace and as my reward]: that I have kept Your precepts [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]." 
Psalms119:57 You are my portion, O Lord; I have promised to keep Your words." 
Psalms119:58 I entreated Your favor with my whole heart; be merciful and gracious to me according to Your promise. 
Psalms119:59 I considered my ways; I turned my feet to [obey] Your testimonies. 
Psalms119:60 I made haste and delayed not to keep Your commandments. 
Psalms119:61 Though the cords of the wicked have enclosed and ensnared me, I have not forgotten Your law." 
Psalms119:62 At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You because of Your righteous ordinances. 
Psalms119:63 I am a companion of all those who fear, revere, and worship You, and of those who observe and give heed to Your precepts." 
Psalms119:64 The earth, O Lord, is full of Your mercy and loving-kindness; teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:65 You have dealt well with Your servant, O Lord, according to Your promise." 
Psalms119:66 Teach me good judgment, wise and right discernment, and knowledge, for I have believed (trusted, relied on, and clung to) Your commandments." 
Psalms119:67 Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now Your word do I keep [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it]." 
Psalms119:68 You are good and kind and do good; teach me Your statutes. 
Psalms119:69 The arrogant and godless have put together a lie against me, but I will keep Your precepts with my whole heart." 
Psalms119:70 Their hearts are as fat as grease [their minds are dull and brutal], but I delight in Your law." 
Psalms119:71 It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn Your statutes." 
Psalms119:72 The law from Your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. 
Psalms119:73 Your hands have made me, cunningly fashioned and established me; give me understanding, that I may learn Your commandments." 
Psalms119:74 Those who reverently and worshipfully fear You will see me and be glad, because I have hoped in Your word and tarried for it." 
Psalms119:75 I know, O Lord, that Your judgments are right and righteous, and that in faithfulness You have afflicted me. [Heb. 12:10.]" 
Psalms119:76 Let, I pray You, Your merciful kindness and steadfast love be for my comfort, according to Your promise to Your servant." 
Psalms119:77 Let Your tender mercy and loving-kindness come to me that I may live, for Your law is my delight!" 
Psalms119:78 Let the proud be put to shame, for they dealt perversely with me without a cause; but I will meditate on Your precepts." 
Psalms119:79 Let those who reverently and worshipfully fear You turn to me, and those who have known Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:80 Let my heart be sound (sincere and wholehearted and blameless) in Your statutes, that I may not be put to shame." 
Psalms119:81 My soul languishes and grows faint for Your salvation, but I hope in Your word." 
Psalms119:82 My eyes fail, watching for [the fulfillment of] Your promise. I say, When will You comfort me?" 
Psalms119:83 For I have become like a bottle [a wineskin blackened and shriveled] in the smoke [in which it hangs], yet do I not forget Your statutes." 
Psalms119:84 How many are the days of Your servant [which he must endure]? When will You judge those who pursue and persecute me? [Rev. 6:10.] 
Psalms119:85 The godless and arrogant have dug pitfalls for me, men who do not conform to Your law." 
Psalms119:86 All Your commandments are faithful and sure. [The godless] pursue and persecute me with falsehood; help me [Lord]! 
Psalms119:87 They had almost consumed me upon earth, but I forsook not Your precepts." 
Psalms119:88 According to Your steadfast love give life to me; then I will keep the testimony of Your mouth [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it]." 
Psalms119:89 Forever, O Lord, Your word is settled in heaven [stands firm as the heavens]. [Ps. 89:2; Matt. 24:34, 35; I Pet. 1:25.]" 
Psalms119:90 Your faithfulness is from generation to generation; You have established the earth, and it stands fast." 
Psalms119:91 All [the whole universe] are Your servants; therefore they continue this day according to Your ordinances. [Jer. 33:25.] 
Psalms119:92 Unless Your law had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction." 
Psalms119:93 I will never forget Your precepts, [how can I?] for it is by them You have quickened me (granted me life)." 
Psalms119:94 I am Yours, therefore save me [Your own]; for I have sought (inquired of and for) Your precepts and required them [as my urgent need]. [Ps. 42:1.]" 
Psalms119:95 The wicked wait for me to destroy me, but I will consider Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:96 I have seen that everything [human] has its limits and end [no matter how extensive, noble, and excellent]; but Your commandment is exceedingly broad and extends without limits [into eternity]. [Rom. 3:10-19.]" 
Psalms119:97 Oh, how love I Your law! It is my meditation all the day. [Ps. 1:2.]" 
Psalms119:98 You, through Your commandments, make me wiser than my enemies, for [Your words] are ever before me." 
Psalms119:99 I have better understanding and deeper insight than all my teachers, because Your testimonies are my meditation. [II Tim. 3:15.]" 
Psalms119:100 I understand more than the aged, because I keep Your precepts [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]." 
Psalms119:101 I have restrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep Your word [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying it]. [Prov. 1:15.]" 
Psalms119:102 I have not turned aside from Your ordinances, for You Yourself have taught me." 
Psalms119:103 How sweet are Your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth! [Ps. 19:10; Prov. 8:11.]" 
Psalms119:104 Through Your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way. 
Psalms119:105 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. [Prov. 6:23.] 
Psalms119:106 I have sworn [an oath] and have confirmed it, that I will keep Your righteous ordinances [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]. [Neh. 10:29.]" 
Psalms119:107 I am sorely afflicted; renew and quicken me [give me life], O Lord, according to Your word!" 
Psalms119:108 Accept, I beseech You, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Lord, and teach me Your ordinances. [Hos. 14:2; Heb. 13:15.]" 
Psalms119:109 My life is continually in my hand, yet I do not forget Your law." 
Psalms119:110 The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I do not stray from Your precepts." 
Psalms119:111 Your testimonies have I taken as a heritage forever, for they are the rejoicing of my heart. [Deut. 33:4.]" 
Psalms119:112 I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes forever, even to the end." 
Psalms119:113 I hate the thoughts of undecided [in religion], double-minded people, but Your law do I love." 
Psalms119:114 You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in Your word. [Ps. 32:7; 91:1.] 
Psalms119:115 Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]. [Ps. 6:8; 139:19; Matt. 7:23.]" 
Psalms119:116 Uphold me according to Your promise, that I may live; and let me not be put to shame in my hope! [Ps. 25:2; Rom. 5:5; 9:33; 10:11.]" 
Psalms119:117 Hold me up, that I may be safe and have regard for Your statutes continually!" 
Psalms119:118 You spurn and set at nought all those who stray from Your statutes, for their own lying deceives them and their tricks are in vain." 
Psalms119:119 You put away and count as dross all the wicked of the earth [for there is no true metal in them]; therefore I love Your testimonies. 
Psalms119:120 My flesh trembles and shudders for fear and reverential, worshipful awe of You, and I am afraid and in dread of Your judgments." 
Psalms119:121 I have done justice and righteousness; leave me not to those who would oppress me. 
Psalms119:122 Be surety for Your servant for good [as Judah was surety for the safety of Benjamin]; let not the proud oppress me. [Gen. 43:9.] 
Psalms119:123 My eyes fail, watching for Your salvation and for the fulfillment of Your righteous promise." 
Psalms119:124 Deal with Your servant according to Your mercy and loving-kindness, and teach me Your statutes." 
Psalms119:125 I am Your servant; give me understanding (discernment and comprehension), that I may know (discern and be familiar with the character of) Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:126 It is time for the Lord to act; they have frustrated Your law. 
Psalms119:127 Therefore I love Your commandments more than [resplendent] gold, yes, more than [perfectly] refined gold." 
Psalms119:128 Therefore I esteem as right all, yes, all Your precepts; I hate every false way." 
Psalms119:129 Your testimonies are wonderful [far exceeding anything conceived by man]; therefore my [penitent] self keeps them [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]." 
Psalms119:130 The entrance and unfolding of Your words give light; their unfolding gives understanding (discernment and comprehension) to the simple. 
Psalms119:131 I opened my mouth and panted [with eager desire], for I longed for Your commandments." 
Psalms119:132 Look upon me, be merciful unto me, and show me favor, as is Your way to those who love Your name." 
Psalms119:133 Establish my steps and direct them by [means of] Your word; let not any iniquity have dominion over me. 
Psalms119:134 Deliver me from the oppression of man; so will I keep Your precepts [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]. [Luke 1:74.]" 
Psalms119:135 Make Your face shine [with pleasure] upon Your servant, and teach me Your statutes. [Ps. 4:6.]" 
Psalms119:136 Streams of water run down my eyes, because men do not keep Your law [they hear it not, nor receive it, love it, or obey it]." 
Psalms119:137 [Rigidly] righteous are You, O Lord, and upright are Your judgments and all expressions of Your will." 
Psalms119:138 You have commanded and appointed Your testimonies in righteousness and in great faithfulness. 
Psalms119:139 My zeal has consumed me and cut me off, because my adversaries have forgotten Your words." 
Psalms119:140 Your word is very pure (tried and well refined); therefore Your servant loves it. 
Psalms119:141 I am small (insignificant) and despised, but I do not forget Your precepts." 
Psalms119:142 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and Your law is truth. [Ps. 19:9; John 17:17.]" 
Psalms119:143 Trouble and anguish have found and taken hold on me, yet Your commandments are my delight." 
Psalms119:144 Your righteous testimonies are everlasting and Your decrees are binding to eternity; give me understanding and I shall live [give me discernment and comprehension and I shall not die]. 
Psalms119:145 I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O Lord; I will keep Your statutes [I will hear, receive, love, and obey them]." 
Psalms119:146 I cried to You; save me, that I may keep Your testimonies [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]." 
Psalms119:147 I anticipated the dawning of the morning and cried [in childlike prayer]; I hoped in Your word. 
Psalms119:148 My eyes anticipate the night watches and I am awake before the cry of the watchman, that I may meditate on Your word." 
Psalms119:149 Hear my voice according to Your steadfast love; O Lord, quicken me and give me life according to Your [righteous] decrees." 
Psalms119:150 They draw near who follow after wrong thinking and persecute me with wickedness; they are far from Your law. 
Psalms119:151 You are near, O Lord [nearer to me than my foes], and all Your commandments are truth." 
Psalms119:152 Of old have I known Your testimonies, and for a long time, [therefore it is a thoroughly established conviction] that You have founded them forever. [Luke 21:33.]" 
Psalms119:153 Consider my affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget Your law." 
Psalms119:154 Plead my cause and redeem me; revive me and give me life according to Your word. 
Psalms119:155 Salvation is far from the wicked, for they seek not nor hunger for Your statutes." 
Psalms119:156 Great are Your tender mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord; give me life according to Your ordinances." 
Psalms119:157 Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, yet I do not swerve from Your testimonies." 
Psalms119:158 I behold the treacherous and am grieved and loathe them, because they do not respect Your law [neither hearing, receiving, loving, nor obeying it]." 
Psalms119:159 Consider how I love Your precepts; revive me and give life to me, O Lord, according to Your loving-kindness!" 
Psalms119:160 The sum of Your word is truth [the total of the full meaning of all Your individual precepts]; and every one of Your righteous decrees endures forever. 
Psalms119:161 Princes pursue and persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of Your words [dreading violation of them far more than the force of prince or potentate]. [I Sam. 24:11, 14; 26:18.]" 
Psalms119:162 I rejoice at Your word as one who finds great spoil. 
Psalms119:163 I hate and abhor falsehood, but Your law do I love." 
Psalms119:164 Seven times a day and all day long do I praise You because of Your righteous decrees. 
Psalms119:165 Great peace have they who love Your law; nothing shall offend them or make them stumble. [Prov. 3:2; Isa. 32:17.] 
Psalms119:166 I am hoping and waiting [eagerly] for Your salvation, O Lord, and I do Your commandments. [Gen. 49:18.]" 
Psalms119:167 Your testimonies have I kept [hearing, receiving, loving, and obeying them]; I love them exceedingly!" 
Psalms119:168 I have observed Your precepts and Your testimonies, for all my ways are [fully known] before You." 
Psalms119:169 Let my mournful cry and supplication come [near] before You, O Lord; give me understanding (discernment and comprehension) according to Your word [of assurance and promise]." 
Psalms119:170 Let my supplication come before You; deliver me according to Your word! 
Psalms119:171 My lips shall pour forth praise [with thanksgiving and renewed trust] when You teach me Your statutes. 
Psalms119:172 My tongue shall sing [praise for the fulfillment] of Your word, for all Your commandments are righteous." 
Psalms119:173 Let Your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen Your precepts." 
Psalms119:174 I have longed for Your salvation, O Lord, and Your law is my delight." 
Psalms119:175 Let me live that I may praise You, and let Your decrees help me." 
Psalms119:176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek, inquire for, and demand Your servant, for I do not forget Your commandments. [Isa. 53:6; Luke 15:4; I Pet. 2:25.]" 
Psalms120:1 A Song of Ascents. IN MY distress I cried to the Lord, and He answered me." 
Psalms120:2 Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips and from deceitful tongues." 
Psalms120:3 What shall be given to you? Or what more shall be done to you, you deceitful tongue?," 
Psalms120:4 Sharp arrows of a [mighty] warrior, with [glowing] coals of the broom tree!" 
Psalms120:5 Woe is me that I sojourn with Meshech, that I dwell beside the tents of Kedar [as if among notoriously barbarous people]! [Gen. 10:2; 25:13; Jer. 49:28, 29.]" 
Psalms120:6 My life has too long had its dwelling with him who hates peace. 
Psalms120:7 I am for peace; but when I speak, they are for war." 
Psalms121:1 A Song of Ascents. I WILL lift up my eyes to the hills [around Jerusalem, to sacred Mount Zion and Mount Moriah],From whence shall my help come? [Jer. 3:23.]" 
Psalms121:2 My help comes from the Lord, Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms121:3 He will not allow your foot to slip or to be moved; He Who keeps you will not slumber. [I Sam. 2:9; Ps. 127:1; Prov. 3:23, 26; Isa. 27:3.]" 
Psalms121:4 Behold, He who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep." 
Psalms121:5 The Lord is your keeper; the Lord is your shade on your right hand [the side not carrying a shield]. [Isa. 25:4.] 
Psalms121:6 The sun shall not smite you by day, nor the moon by night. [Ps. 91:5; Isa. 49:10; Rev. 7:16.]" 
Psalms121:7 The Lord will keep you from all evil; He will keep your life. 
Psalms121:8 The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore. [Deut. 28:6; Prov. 2:8; 3:6.] 
Psalms122:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. I WAS glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord! [Isa. 2:3; Zech. 8:21.]" 
Psalms122:2 Our feet are standing within your gates, O Jerusalem!," 
Psalms122:3 Jerusalem, which is built as a city that is compacted together," 
Psalms122:4 To which the tribes go up, even the tribes of the Lord, as was decreed and as a testimony for Israel, to give thanks to the name of the Lord." 
Psalms122:5 For there the thrones of judgment were set, the thrones of the house of David." 
Psalms122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! May they prosper who love you [the Holy City]! 
Psalms122:7 May peace be within your walls and prosperity within your palaces! 
Psalms122:8 For my brethren and companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within you!" 
Psalms122:9 For the sake of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek, inquire for, and require your good." 
Psalms123:1 A Song of Ascents. UNTO YOU do I lift up my eyes, O You Who are enthroned in heaven." 
Psalms123:2 Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, and as the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the Lord our God, until He has mercy and loving-kindness for us." 
Psalms123:3 Have mercy on us, O Lord, have mercy on and loving-kindness for us, for we are exceedingly satiated with contempt." 
Psalms123:4 Our life is exceedingly filled with the scorning and scoffing of those who are at ease and with the contempt of the proud (irresponsible tyrants who disregard God's law). 
Psalms124:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. IF IT had not been the Lord Who was on our side,now may Israel say, 
Psalms124:2 If it had not been the Lord Who was on our side when men rose up against us," 
Psalms124:3 Then they would have quickly swallowed us up alive when their wrath was kindled against us; 
Psalms124:4 Then the waters would have overwhelmed us and swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us;" 
Psalms124:5 Then the proud waters would have gone over us. 
Psalms124:6 Blessed be the Lord, Who has not given us as prey to their teeth!" 
Psalms124:7 We are like a bird escaped from the snare of the fowlers; the snare is broken, and we have escaped!" 
Psalms124:8 Our help is in the name of the Lord, Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms125:1 A Song of Ascents. THOSE WHO trust in, lean on, and confidently hope in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved but abides and stands fast forever." 
Psalms125:2 As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about His people from this time forth and forever." 
Psalms125:3 For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest upon the land of the [uncompromisingly] righteous, lest the righteous (God's people) stretch forth their hands to iniquity and apostasy." 
Psalms125:4 Do good, O Lord, to those who are good, and to those who are right [with You and all people] in their hearts." 
Psalms125:5 As for such as turn aside to their crooked ways [of indifference to God], the Lord will lead them forth with the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel!" 
Psalms126:1 A Song of Ascents. WHEN THE Lord brought back the captives [who returned] to Zion, we were like those who dream [it seemed so unreal]. [Ps. 53:6; Acts 12:9.]" 
Psalms126:2 Then were our mouths filled with laughter, and our tongues with singing. Then they said among the nations, The Lord has done great things for them." 
Psalms126:3 The Lord has done great things for us! We are glad! 
Psalms126:4 Turn to freedom our captivity and restore our fortunes, O Lord, as the streams in the South (the Negeb) [are restored by the torrents]." 
Psalms126:5 They who sow in tears shall reap in joy and singing. 
Psalms126:6 He who goes forth bearing seed and weeping [at needing his precious supply of grain for sowing] shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him." 
Psalms127:1 A Song of Ascents. Of Solomon. EXCEPT THE Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it; except the Lord keeps the city, the watchman wakes but in vain. [Ps. 121:1, 3, 5.]" 
Psalms127:2 It is vain for you to rise up early, to take rest late, to eat the bread of [anxious] toil,for He gives [blessings] to His beloved in sleep." 
Psalms127:3 Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward. [Deut. 28:4.]" 
Psalms127:4 As arrows are in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth." 
Psalms127:5 Happy, blessed, and fortunate is the man whose quiver is filled with them! They will not be put to shame when they speak with their adversaries [in gatherings] at the [city's] gate." 
Psalms128:1 A Song of Ascents. BLESSED (HAPPY, fortunate, to be envied) is everyone who fears, reveres, and worships the Lord, who walks in His ways and lives according to His commandments. [Ps. 1:1, 2.]" 
Psalms128:2 For you shall eat [the fruit] of the labor of your hands; happy (blessed, fortunate, enviable) shall you be, and it shall be well with you." 
Psalms128:3 Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine in the innermost parts of your house; your children shall be like olive plants round about your table. 
Psalms128:4 Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who reverently and worshipfully fears the Lord." 
Psalms128:5 May the Lord bless you out of Zion [His sanctuary], and may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life;" 
Psalms128:6 Yes, may you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel!" 
Psalms129:1 A Song of Ascents. MANY A time and much have they afflicted me from my youth up,let Israel now say, 
Psalms129:2 Many a time and much have they afflicted me from my youth up, yet they have not prevailed against me." 
Psalms129:3 The plowers plowed upon my back; they made long their furrows. 
Psalms129:4 The Lord is [uncompromisingly] righteous; He has cut asunder the thick cords by which the wicked [enslaved us]. 
Psalms129:5 Let them all be put to shame and turned backward who hate Zion. 
Psalms129:6 Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withers before it grows up," 
Psalms129:7 With which the mower fills not his hand, nor the binder of sheaves his bosom," 
Psalms129:8 While those who go by do not say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you! We bless you in the name of the Lord!" 
Psalms130:1 A Song of Ascents. OUT OF the depths have I cried to You, O Lord." 
Psalms130:2 Lord, hear my voice; let Your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications." 
Psalms130:3 If You, Lord, should keep account of and treat [us according to our] sins, O Lord, who could stand? [Ps. 143:2; Rom. 3:20; Gal. 2:16.]" 
Psalms130:4 But there is forgiveness with You [just what man needs], that You may be reverently feared and worshiped. [Deut. 10:12.]" 
Psalms130:5 I wait for the Lord, I expectantly wait, and in His word do I hope." 
Psalms130:6 I am looking and waiting for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, I say, more than watchmen for the morning." 
Psalms130:7 O Israel, hope in the Lord! For with the Lord there is mercy and loving-kindness, and with Him is plenteous redemption." 
Psalms130:8 And He will redeem Israel from all their iniquities. 
Psalms131:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. LORD, MY heart is not haughty, nor my eyes lofty; neither do I exercise myself in matters too great or in things too wonderful for me." 
Psalms131:2 Surely I have calmed and quieted my soul; like a weaned child with his mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me [ceased from fretting]." 
Psalms131:3 O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forever." 
Psalms132:1 A Song of Ascents. LORD, [earnestly] remember to David's credit all his humiliations and hardships and endurance," 
Psalms132:2 How he swore to the Lord and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: 
Psalms132:3 Surely I will not enter my dwelling house or get into my bed, 
Psalms132:4 I will not permit my eyes to sleep or my eyelids to slumber," 
Psalms132:5 Until I have found a place for the Lord, a habitation for the Mighty One of Jacob. [Acts 7:46.]" 
Psalms132:6 Behold, at Ephratah we [first] heard of [the discovered ark]; we found it in the fields of the wood [at Kiriath-jearim]. [I Sam. 6:21.]" 
Psalms132:7 Let us go into His tabernacle; let us worship at His footstool. 
Psalms132:8 Arise, O Lord, to Your resting-place, You and the ark [the symbol] of Your strength." 
Psalms132:9 Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness (right living and right standing with God); and let Your saints shout for joy! 
Psalms132:10 For Your servant David's sake, turn not away the face of Your anointed and reject not Your own king." 
Psalms132:11 The Lord swore to David in truth; He will not turn back from it: One of the fruit of your body I will set upon your throne. [Ps. 89:3, 4; Luke 1:69; Acts 2:30, 31.]" 
Psalms132:12 If your children will keep My covenant and My testimony that I shall teach them, their children also shall sit upon your throne forever." 
Psalms132:13 For the Lord has chosen Zion, He has desired it for His habitation:" 
Psalms132:14 This is My resting-place forever [says the Lord]; here will I dwell, for I have desired it." 
Psalms132:15 I will surely and abundantly bless her provision; I will satisfy her poor with bread. 
Psalms132:16 Her priests also will I clothe with salvation, and her saints shall shout aloud for joy." 
Psalms132:17 There will I make a horn spring forth and bud for David; I have ordained and prepared a lamp for My anointed [fulfilling the promises of old]. [I Kings 11:36; 15:4; II Chron. 21:7; Luke 1:69.] 
Psalms132:18 His enemies will I clothe with shame, but upon himself shall his crown flourish." 
Psalms133:1 A Song of Ascents. Of David. BEHOLD, HOW good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!" 
Psalms133:2 It is like the precious ointment poured on the head, that ran down on the beard, even the beard of Aaron [the first high priest], that came down upon the collar and skirts of his garments [consecrating the whole body]. [Exod. 30:25, 30.]" 
Psalms133:3 It is like the dew of [lofty] Mount Hermon and the dew that comes on the hills of Zion; for there the Lord has commanded the blessing, even life forevermore [upon the high and the lowly]." 
Psalms134:1 A Song of Ascents. BEHOLD, BLESS (affectionately and gratefully praise) the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, [singers] who by night stand in the house of the Lord. [I Chron. 9:33.]" 
Psalms134:2 Lift up your hands in holiness and to the sanctuary and bless the Lord [affectionately and gratefully praise Him]! 
Psalms134:3 The Lord bless you out of Zion, even He Who made heaven and earth." 
Psalms135:1 PRAISE THE Lord! (Hallelujah!) Praise the name of the Lord; praise Him, O you servants of the Lord!" 
Psalms135:2 You who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God," 
Psalms135:3 Praise the Lord! For the Lord is good; sing praises to His name, for He is gracious and lovely!" 
Psalms135:4 For the Lord has chosen [the descendants of] Jacob for Himself, Israel for His peculiar possession and treasure. [Deut. 7:6.]" 
Psalms135:5 For I know that the Lord is great and that our Lord is above all gods. 
Psalms135:6 Whatever the Lord pleases, that has He done in the heavens and on earth, in the seas and all deeps," 
Psalms135:7 Who causes the vapors to arise from the ends of the earth, Who makes lightnings for the rain, Who brings the wind out of His storehouses;" 
Psalms135:8 Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast; [Exod. 12:12, 29; Ps. 78:51; 136:10.]" 
Psalms135:9 Who sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh and all his servants;" 
Psalms135:10 Who smote nations many and great and slew mighty kings, 
Psalms135:11 Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan." 
Psalms135:12 [The Lord] gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to Israel His people." 
Psalms135:13 Your name, O Lord, endures forever, Your fame, O Lord, throughout all ages." 
Psalms135:14 For the Lord will judge and vindicate His people, and He will delay His judgments [manifesting His righteousness and mercy] and take into favor His servants [those who meet His terms of separation unto Him]. [Heb. 10:30.]" 
Psalms135:15 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands." 
Psalms135:16 [Idols] have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;" 
Psalms135:17 They have ears, but they hear not, nor is there any breath in their mouths." 
Psalms135:18 Those who make [idols] are like them; so is everyone who trusts in and relies on them. [Ps. 115:4-8.] 
Psalms135:19 Bless (affectionately and gratefully praise) the Lord, O house of Israel; bless the Lord, O house of Aaron [God's ministers]." 
Psalms135:20 Bless the Lord, O house of Levi [the dedicated tribe]; you who reverently and worshipfully fear the Lord, bless the Lord [affectionately and gratefully praise Him]! [Deut. 6:5; Ps. 31:23.]" 
Psalms135:21 Blessed out of Zion be the Lord, Who dwells [with us] at Jerusalem! Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!)" 
Psalms136:1 O GIVE thanks to the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever." 
Psalms136:2 O give thanks to the God of gods, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever." 
Psalms136:3 O give thanks to the Lord of lords, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever," 
Psalms136:4 To Him Who alone does great wonders, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:5 To Him Who by wisdom and understanding made the heavens, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:6 To Him Who stretched out the earth upon the waters, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:7 To Him Who made the great lights, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever," 
Psalms136:8 The sun to rule over the day, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:9 The moon and stars to rule by night, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:10 To Him Who smote Egypt in their firstborn, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever; [Exod. 12:29.]" 
Psalms136:11 And brought out Israel from among them, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever; [Exod. 12:51; 13:3, 17.]" 
Psalms136:12 With a strong hand and with an outstretched arm, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:13 To Him Who divided the Red Sea into parts, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever; [Exod. 14:21, 22.]" 
Psalms136:14 And made Israel to pass through the midst of it, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:15 But shook off and overthrew Pharaoh and his host into the Red Sea, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:16 To Him Who led His people through the wilderness, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:17 To Him Who smote great kings, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:18 And slew famous kings, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever,[Deut. 29:7.]" 
Psalms136:19 Sihon king of the Amorites, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever; [Num. 21:21-24.]" 
Psalms136:20 And Og king of Bashan, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever; [Num. 21:33-35.]" 
Psalms136:21 And gave their land as a heritage, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:22 Even a heritage to Israel His servant, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever; [Josh. 12:1.]" 
Psalms136:23 To Him Who [earnestly] remembered us in our low estate and imprinted us [on His heart], for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:24 And rescued us from our enemies, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:25 To Him Who gives food to all flesh, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever;" 
Psalms136:26 O give thanks to the God of heaven, for His mercy and loving-kindness endure forever!" 
Psalms137:1 BY THE rivers of Babylon, there we [captives] sat down, yes, we wept when we [earnestly] remembered Zion [the city of our God imprinted on our hearts]." 
Psalms137:2 On the willow trees in the midst of [Babylon] we hung our harps. 
Psalms137:3 For there they who led us captive required of us a song with words, and our tormentors and they who wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion." 
Psalms137:4 How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? 
Psalms137:5 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill [with the harp]." 
Psalms137:6 Let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth if I remember you not, if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy! [Ezek. 3:26.]" 
Psalms137:7 Remember, O Lord, against the Edomites, that they said in the day of Jerusalem's fall, Down, down to the ground with her!" 
Psalms137:8 O Daughter of Babylon [you devastator, you!], who [ought to be and] shall be destroyed, happy and blessed shall he be who requites you as you have served us. [Isa. 13:1-22; Jer. 25:12, 13.]" 
Psalms137:9 Happy and blessed shall he be who takes and dashes your little ones against the rock! 
Psalms138:1 [A Psalm] of David. I WILL confess and praise You [O God] with my whole heart; before the gods will I sing praises to You. 
Psalms138:2 I will worship toward Your holy temple and praise Your name for Your loving-kindness and for Your truth and faithfulness; for You have exalted above all else Your name and Your word and You have magnified Your word above all Your name! 
Psalms138:3 In the day when I called, You answered me; and You strengthened me with strength (might and inflexibility to temptation) in my inner self." 
Psalms138:4 All the kings of the land shall give You credit and praise You, O Lord, for they have heard of the promises of Your mouth [which were fulfilled]." 
Psalms138:5 Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the Lord and joyfully celebrate His mighty acts, for great is the glory of the Lord." 
Psalms138:6 For though the Lord is high, yet has He respect to the lowly [bringing them into fellowship with Him]; but the proud and haughty He knows and recognizes [only] at a distance. [Prov. 3:34; James 4:6; I Pet. 5:5.]" 
Psalms138:7 Though I walk in the midst of trouble, You will revive me; You will stretch forth Your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and Your right hand will save me. [Ps. 23:3, 4.]" 
Psalms138:8 The Lord will perfect that which concerns me; Your mercy and loving-kindness, O Lord, endure forever,forsake not the works of Your own hands. [Ps. 57:2; Phil. 1:6.]" 
Psalms139:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. O LORD, you have searched me [thoroughly] and have known me." 
Psalms139:2 You know my downsitting and my uprising; You understand my thought afar off. [Matt. 9:4; John 2:24, 25.]" 
Psalms139:3 You sift and search out my path and my lying down, and You are acquainted with all my ways." 
Psalms139:4 For there is not a word in my tongue [still unuttered], but, behold, O Lord, You know it altogether. [Heb. 4:13.]" 
Psalms139:5 You have beset me and shut me in,behind and before, and You have laid Your hand upon me." 
Psalms139:6 Your [infinite] knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high above me, I cannot reach it." 
Psalms139:7 Where could I go from Your Spirit? Or where could I flee from Your presence? 
Psalms139:8 If I ascend up into heaven, You are there; if I make my bed in Sheol (the place of the dead), behold, You are there. [Rom. 11:33.]" 
Psalms139:9 If I take the wings of the morning or dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea," 
Psalms139:10 Even there shall Your hand lead me, and Your right hand shall hold me." 
Psalms139:11 If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me and the night shall be [the only] light about me," 
Psalms139:12 Even the darkness hides nothing from You, but the night shines as the day; the darkness and the light are both alike to You. [Dan. 2:22.]" 
Psalms139:13 For You did form my inward parts; You did knit me together in my mother's womb. 
Psalms139:14 I will confess and praise You for You are fearful and wonderful and for the awful wonder of my birth! Wonderful are Your works, and that my inner self knows right well." 
Psalms139:15 My frame was not hidden from You when I was being formed in secret [and] intricately and curiously wrought [as if embroidered with various colors] in the depths of the earth [a region of darkness and mystery]. 
Psalms139:16 Your eyes saw my unformed substance, and in Your book all the days [of my life] were written before ever they took shape, when as yet there was none of them." 
Psalms139:17 How precious and weighty also are Your thoughts to me, O God! How vast is the sum of them! [Ps. 40:5.]" 
Psalms139:18 If I could count them, they would be more in number than the sand. When I awoke, [could I count to the end] I would still be with You." 
Psalms139:19 If You would [only] slay the wicked, O God, and the men of blood depart from me,[Isa. 11:4.]" 
Psalms139:20 Who speak against You wickedly, Your enemies who take Your name in vain! [Jude 15.]" 
Psalms139:21 Do I not hate them, O Lord, who hate You? And am I not grieved and do I not loathe those who rise up against You?" 
Psalms139:22 I hate them with perfect hatred; they have become my enemies. 
Psalms139:23 Search me [thoroughly], O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts!" 
Psalms139:24 And see if there is any wicked or hurtful way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting." 
Psalms140:1 To the Chief Musician. A Psalm of David. DELIVER ME, O Lord, from evil men; preserve me from violent men;" 
Psalms140:2 They devise mischiefs in their heart; continually they gather together and stir up wars. 
Psalms140:3 They sharpen their tongues like a serpent's; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! [Rom. 3:13.]" 
Psalms140:4 Keep me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent men who have purposed to thrust aside my steps." 
Psalms140:5 The proud have hidden a snare for me; they have spread cords as a net by the wayside, they have set traps for me. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms140:6 I said to the Lord, You are my God; give ear to the voice of my supplications, O Lord." 
Psalms140:7 O God the Lord, the Strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day of battle." 
Psalms140:8 Grant not, O Lord, the desires of the wicked; further not their wicked plot and device, lest they exalt themselves. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms140:9 Those who are fencing me in raise their heads; may the mischief of their own lips and the very things they desire for me come upon them. 
Psalms140:10 Let burning coals fall upon them; let them be cast into the fire, into floods of water or deep water pits, from which they shall not rise." 
Psalms140:11 Let not a man of slanderous tongue be established in the earth; let evil hunt the violent man to overthrow him [let calamity follow his evildoings]. 
Psalms140:12 I know and rest in confidence upon it that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and will secure justice for the poor and needy [of His believing children]." 
Psalms140:13 Surely the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall give thanks to Your name; the upright shall dwell in Your presence (before Your very face). 
Psalms141:1 A Psalm of David. LORD, I call upon You; hasten to me. Give ear to my voice when I cry to You." 
Psalms141:2 Let my prayer be set forth as incense before You, the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. [I Tim. 2:8; Rev. 8:3, 4.]" 
Psalms141:3 Set a guard, O Lord, before my mouth; keep watch at the door of my lips." 
Psalms141:4 Incline my heart not to submit or consent to any evil thing or to be occupied in deeds of wickedness with men who work iniquity; and let me not eat of their dainties. 
Psalms141:5 Let the righteous man smite and correct me,it is a kindness. Oil so choice let not my head refuse or discourage; for even in their evils or calamities shall my prayer continue. [Prov. 9:8; 19:25; 25:12; Gal. 6:1.] 
Psalms141:6 When their rulers are overthrown in stony places, [their followers] shall hear my words, that they are sweet (pleasant, mild, and just)." 
Psalms141:7 The unburied bones [of slaughtered rulers] shall lie scattered at the mouth of Sheol, [as unregarded] as the lumps of soil behind the plowman when he breaks open the ground. [II Cor. 1:9.]" 
Psalms141:8 But my eyes are toward You, O God the Lord; in You do I trust and take refuge; pour not out my life nor leave it destitute and bare." 
Psalms141:9 Keep me from the trap which they have laid for me, and the snares of evildoers." 
Psalms141:10 Let the wicked fall together into their own nets, while I pass over them and escape." 
Psalms142:1 A skillful song, or a didactic or reflective poem, of David; when he was in the cave. A Prayer. I CRY to the Lord with my voice; with my voice to the Lord do I make supplication." 
Psalms142:2 I pour out my complaint before Him; I tell before Him my trouble. 
Psalms142:3 When my spirit was overwhelmed and fainted [throwing all its weight] upon me, then You knew my path. In the way where I walk they have hidden a snare for me." 
Psalms142:4 Look on the right hand [the point of attack] and see; for there is no man who knows me [to appear for me]. Refuge has failed me and I have no way to flee; no man cares for my life or my welfare. 
Psalms142:5 I cried to You, O Lord; I said, You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living." 
Psalms142:6 Attend to my loud cry, for I am brought very low; deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I." 
Psalms142:7 Bring my life out of prison, that I may confess, praise, and give thanks to Your name; the righteous will surround me and crown themselves because of me, for You will deal bountifully with me." 
Psalms143:1 A Psalm of David. HEAR MY prayer, O Lord, give ear to my supplications! In Your faithfulness answer me, and in Your righteousness." 
Psalms143:2 And enter not into judgment with Your servant, for in Your sight no man living is [in himself] righteous or justified. [Ps. 130:3; Rom. 3:20-26; Gal. 2:16.]" 
Psalms143:3 For the enemy has pursued and persecuted my soul, he has crushed my life down to the ground; he has made me to dwell in dark places as those who have been long dead." 
Psalms143:4 Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed and faints within me [wrapped in gloom]; my heart within my bosom grows numb. 
Psalms143:5 I remember the days of old; I meditate on all Your doings; I ponder the work of Your hands. 
Psalms143:6 I spread forth my hands to You; my soul thirsts after You like a thirsty land [for water]. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Psalms143:7 Answer me speedily, O Lord, for my spirit fails; hide not Your face from me, lest I become like those who go down into the pit (the grave)." 
Psalms143:8 Cause me to hear Your loving-kindness in the morning, for on You do I lean and in You do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk, for I lift up my inner self to You." 
Psalms143:9 Deliver me, O Lord, from my enemies; I flee to You to hide me." 
Psalms143:10 Teach me to do Your will, for You are my God; let Your good Spirit lead me into a level country and into the land of uprightness." 
Psalms143:11 Save my life, O Lord, for Your name's sake; in Your righteousness, bring my life out of trouble and free me from distress." 
Psalms143:12 And in your mercy and loving-kindness, cut off my enemies and destroy all those who afflict my inner self, for I am Your servant." 
Psalms144:1 [A Psalm] of David. BLESSED BE the Lord, my Rock and my keen and firm Strength, Who teaches my hands to war and my fingers to fight," 
Psalms144:2 My Steadfast Love and my Fortress, my High Tower and my Deliverer, my Shield and He in Whom I trust and take refuge, Who subdues my people under me." 
Psalms144:3 Lord, what is man that You take notice of him? Or [the] son of man that You take account of him? [Job 7:17; Ps. 8:4; Heb. 2:6.]" 
Psalms144:3 Lord, what is man that You take notice of him? Or [the] son of man that You take account of him? [Job 7:17; Ps. 8:4; Heb. 2:6.]" 
Psalms144:4 Man is like vanity and a breath; his days are as a shadow that passes away. 
Psalms144:5 Bow Your heavens, O Lord, and come down; touch the mountains, and they shall smoke." 
Psalms144:6 Cast forth lightning and scatter [my enemies]; send out Your arrows and embarrass and frustrate them. 
Psalms144:7 Stretch forth Your hand from above; rescue me and deliver me out of great waters, from the hands of hostile aliens (tribes around us)" 
Psalms144:8 Whose mouths speak deceit and whose right hands are right hands [raised in taking] fraudulent oaths. 
Psalms144:9 I will sing a new song to You, O God; upon a harp, an instrument of ten strings, will I offer praises to You." 
Psalms144:10 You are He Who gives salvation to kings, Who rescues David His servant from the hurtful sword [of evil]." 
Psalms144:11 Rescue me and deliver me out of the power of [hostile] alien [tribes] whose mouths speak deceit and whose right hands are right hands [raised in taking] fraudulent oaths. 
Psalms144:12 When our sons shall be as plants grown large in their youth and our daughters as sculptured corner pillars hewn like those of a palace; 
Psalms144:13 When our garners are full, affording all manner of store, and our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our pastures;" 
Psalms144:14 When our oxen are well loaded; when there is no invasion [of hostile armies] and no going forth [against besiegers,when there is no murder or manslaughter] and no outcry in our streets; 
Psalms144:15 Happy and blessed are the people who are in such a case; yes, happy (blessed, fortunate, prosperous, to be envied) are the people whose God is the Lord!" 
Psalms145:1 [A Psalm] of praise. Of David. I WILL extol You, my God, O King; and I will bless Your name forever and ever [with grateful, affectionate praise]." 
Psalms145:2 Every day [with its new reasons] will I bless You [affectionately and gratefully praise You]; yes, I will praise Your name forever and ever." 
Psalms145:3 Great is the Lord and highly to be praised; and His greatness is [so vast and deep as to be] unsearchable. [Job 5:9; 9:10; Rom. 11:33.] 
Psalms145:3 Great is the Lord and highly to be praised; and His greatness is [so vast and deep as to be] unsearchable. [Job 5:9; 9:10; Rom. 11:33.] 
Psalms145:4 One generation shall laud Your works to another and shall declare Your mighty acts. 
Psalms145:5 On the glorious splendor of Your majesty and on Your wondrous works I will meditate. 
Psalms145:6 Men shall speak of the might of Your tremendous and terrible acts, and I will declare Your greatness." 
Psalms145:7 They shall pour forth [like a fountain] the fame of Your great and abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of Your rightness and justice. 
Psalms145:8 The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and abounding in mercy and loving-kindness." 
Psalms145:9 The Lord is good to all, and His tender mercies are over all His works [the entirety of things created]." 
Psalms145:10 All Your works shall praise You, O Lord, and Your loving ones shall bless You [affectionately and gratefully shall Your saints confess and praise You]!" 
Psalms145:11 They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom and talk of Your power," 
Psalms145:12 To make known to the sons of men God's mighty deeds and the glorious majesty of His kingdom. 
Psalms145:13 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and Your dominion endures throughout all generations." 
Psalms145:14 The Lord upholds all those [of His own] who are falling and raises up all those who are bowed down. 
Psalms145:15 The eyes of all wait for You [looking, watching, and expecting] and You give them their food in due season." 
Psalms145:16 You open Your hand and satisfy every living thing with favor. 
Psalms145:17 The Lord is [rigidly] righteous in all His ways and gracious and merciful in all His works. 
Psalms145:18 The Lord is near to all who call upon Him, to all who call upon Him sincerely and in truth." 
Psalms145:19 He will fulfill the desires of those who reverently and worshipfully fear Him; He also will hear their cry and will save them. 
Psalms145:20 The Lord preserves all those who love Him, but all the wicked will He destroy." 
Psalms145:21 My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord; and let all flesh bless (affectionately and gratefully praise) His holy name forever and ever. 
Psalms146:1 PRAISE THE Lord! (Hallelujah!) Praise the Lord, O my soul!" 
Psalms146:2 While I live will I praise the Lord; I will sing praises to my God while I have any being. 
Psalms146:3 Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no help." 
Psalms146:4 When his breath leaves him, he returns to his earth; in that very day his [previous] thoughts, plans, and purposes perish. [I Cor. 2:6.]" 
Psalms146:5 Happy (blessed, fortunate, enviable) is he who has the God of [special revelation to] Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the Lord his God, [Gen. 32:30.]" 
Psalms146:6 Who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, Who keeps truth and is faithful forever," 
Psalms146:7 Who executes justice for the oppressed, Who gives food to the hungry. The Lord sets free the prisoners," 
Psalms146:8 The Lord opens the eyes of the blind, the Lord lifts up those who are bowed down, the Lord loves the [uncompromisingly] righteous (those upright in heart and in right standing with Him). [Luke 13:13; John 9:7, 32.]" 
Psalms146:9 The Lord protects and preserves the strangers and temporary residents, He upholds the fatherless and the widow and sets them upright, but the way of the wicked He makes crooked (turns upside down and brings to ruin)." 
Psalms146:10 The Lord shall reign forever, even Your God, O Zion, from generation to generation. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) [Ps. 10:16; Rev. 11:15.]" 
Psalms147:1 PRAISE THE Lord! For it is good to sing praises to our God, for He is gracious and lovely; praise is becoming and appropriate." 
Psalms147:2 The Lord is building up Jerusalem; He is gathering together the exiles of Israel. 
Psalms147:3 He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds [curing their pains and their sorrows]. [Ps. 34:18; Isa. 57:15; 61:1; Luke 4:18.] 
Psalms147:4 He determines and counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by their names. 
Psalms147:5 Great is our Lord and of great power; His understanding is inexhaustible and boundless. 
Psalms147:6 The Lord lifts up the humble and downtrodden; He casts the wicked down to the ground. 
Psalms147:7 Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; sing praises with the harp or the lyre to our God!, 
Psalms147:8 Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who prepares rain for the earth, Who makes grass to grow on the mountains." 
Psalms147:9 He gives to the beast his food, and to the young ravens that for which they cry." 
Psalms147:10 He delights not in the strength of the horse, nor does He take pleasure in the legs of a man." 
Psalms147:11 The Lord takes pleasure in those who reverently and worshipfully fear Him, in those who hope in His mercy and loving-kindness. [Ps. 145:20.]" 
Psalms147:12 Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!" 
Psalms147:13 For He has strengthened and made hard the bars of your gates, and He has blessed your children within you." 
Psalms147:14 He makes peace in your borders; He fills you with the finest of the wheat. 
Psalms147:15 He sends forth His commandment to the earth; His word runs very swiftly. 
Psalms147:16 He gives [to the earth] snow like [a blanket of] wool; He scatters the hoarfrost like ashes. 
Psalms147:17 He casts forth His ice like crumbs; who can stand before His cold? 
Psalms147:18 He sends out His word, and melts [ice and snow]; He causes His wind to blow, and the waters flow." 
Psalms147:19 He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His ordinances to Israel. [Mal. 4:4.]" 
Psalms147:20 He has not dealt so with any [other] nation; they have not known (understood, appreciated, given heed to, and cherished) His ordinances. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) [Ps. 79:6; Jer. 10:25.]" 
Psalms148:1 PRAISE THE Lord! Praise the Lord from the heavens, praise Him in the heights!" 
Psalms148:2 Praise Him, all His angels, praise Him, all His hosts!" 
Psalms148:3 Praise Him, sun and moon, praise Him, all you stars of light!" 
Psalms148:4 Praise Him, you highest heavens and you waters above the heavens!" 
Psalms148:5 Let them praise the name of the Lord, for He commanded and they were created." 
Psalms148:6 He also established them forever and ever; He made a decree which shall not pass away [He fixed their bounds which cannot be passed over]. 
Psalms148:7 Praise the Lord from the earth, you sea monsters and all deeps!" 
Psalms148:8 You lightning, hail, fog, and frost, you stormy wind fulfilling His orders!" 
Psalms148:9 Mountains and all hills, fruitful trees and all cedars!" 
Psalms148:10 Beasts and all cattle, creeping things and flying birds!" 
Psalms148:11 Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers and judges of the earth!" 
Psalms148:12 Both young men and maidens, old men and children!" 
Psalms148:13 Let them praise and exalt the name of the Lord, for His name alone is exalted and supreme! His glory and majesty are above earth and heaven!" 
Psalms148:14 He has lifted up a horn for His people [giving them power, prosperity, dignity, and preeminence], a song of praise for all His godly ones, for the people of Israel, who are near to Him. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) [Ps. 75:10; Eph. 2:17.]" 
Psalms149:1 PRAISE THE Lord! Sing to the Lord a new song, praise Him in the assembly of His saints!" 
Psalms149:2 Let Israel rejoice in Him, their Maker; let Zion's children triumph and be joyful in their King! [Zech. 9:9; Matt. 21:5.]" 
Psalms149:3 Let them praise His name in chorus and choir and with the [single or group] dance; let them sing praises to Him with the tambourine and lyre! 
Psalms149:4 For the Lord takes pleasure in His people; He will beautify the humble with salvation and adorn the wretched with victory. 
Psalms149:5 Let the saints be joyful in the glory and beauty [which God confers upon them]; let them sing for joy upon their beds. 
Psalms149:6 Let the high praises of God be in their throats and a two-edged sword in their hands, [Heb. 4:12; Rev. 1:16.]" 
Psalms149:7 To wreak vengeance upon the nations and chastisement upon the peoples," 
Psalms149:8 To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron," 
Psalms149:9 To execute upon them the judgment written. He [the Lord] is the honor of all His saints. Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) 
Psalms150:1 PRAISE THE Lord! Praise God in His sanctuary; praise Him in the heavens of His power! 
Psalms150:2 Praise Him for His mighty acts; praise Him according to the abundance of His greatness! [Deut. 3:24; Ps. 145:5, 6.]" 
Psalms150:3 Praise Him with trumpet sound; praise Him with lute and harp! 
Psalms150:4 Praise Him with tambourine and [single or group] dance; praise Him with stringed and wind instruments or flutes! 
Psalms150:5 Praise Him with resounding cymbals; praise Him with loud clashing cymbals! 
Psalms150:6 Let everything that has breath and every breath of life praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! (Hallelujah!) 
Proverbs1:1 THE PROVERBS (truths obscurely expressed, maxims, and parables) of Solomon son of David, king of Israel:" 
Proverbs1:2 That people may know skillful and godly Wisdom and instruction, discern and comprehend the words of understanding and insight," 
Proverbs1:3 Receive instruction in wise dealing and the discipline of wise thoughtfulness, righteousness, justice, and integrity," 
Proverbs1:4 That prudence may be given to the simple, and knowledge, discretion, and discernment to the youth," 
Proverbs1:5 The wise also will hear and increase in learning, and the person of understanding will acquire skill and attain to sound counsel [so that he may be able to steer his course rightly],[Prov. 9:9.]" 
Proverbs1:6 That people may understand a proverb and a figure of speech or an enigma with its interpretation, and the words of the wise and their dark sayings or riddles." 
Proverbs1:7 The reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord is the beginning and the principal and choice part of knowledge [its starting point and its essence]; but fools despise skillful and godly Wisdom, instruction, and discipline. [Ps. 111:10.]" 
Proverbs1:8 My son, hear the instruction of your father; reject not nor forsake the teaching of your mother." 
Proverbs1:9 For they are a [victor's] chaplet (garland) of grace upon your head and chains and pendants [of gold worn by kings] for your neck. 
Proverbs1:10 My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. [Ps. 1:1; Eph. 5:11.]" 
Proverbs1:11 If they say, Come with us; let us lie in wait [to shed] blood, let us ambush the innocent without cause [and show that his piety is in vain];" 
Proverbs1:12 Let us swallow them up alive as does Sheol (the place of the dead), and whole, as those who go down into the pit [of the dead];" 
Proverbs1:13 We shall find and take all kinds of precious goods [when our victims are put out of the way], we shall fill our houses with plunder;" 
Proverbs1:14 Throw in your lot with us [they insist] and be a sworn brother and comrade; let us all have one purse in common, 
Proverbs1:15 My son, do not walk in the way with them; restrain your foot from their path;" 
Proverbs1:16 For their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood." 
Proverbs1:17 For in vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird! 
Proverbs1:18 But [when these men set a trap for others] they are lying in wait for their own blood; they set an ambush for their own lives. 
Proverbs1:19 So are the ways of everyone who is greedy of gain; such [greed for plunder] takes away the lives of its possessors. [Prov. 15:27; I Tim. 6:10.] 
Proverbs1:20 Wisdom cries aloud in the street, she raises her voice in the markets;" 
Proverbs1:21 She cries at the head of the noisy intersections [in the chief gathering places]; at the entrance of the city gates she speaks: 
Proverbs1:22 How long, O simple ones [open to evil], will you love being simple? And the scoffers delight in scoffing and [self-confident] fools hate knowledge?" 
Proverbs1:23 If you will turn (repent) and give heed to my reproof, behold, I [Wisdom] will pour out my spirit upon you, I will make my words known to you. [Isa. 11:2; Eph. 1:17-20.]" 
Proverbs1:24 Because I have called and you have refused [to answer], have stretched out my hand and no man has heeded it, [Isa. 65:11, 12; 66:4; Jer. 7:13, 14; Zech. 7:11-13.]" 
Proverbs1:25 And you treated as nothing all my counsel and would accept none of my reproof," 
Proverbs1:26 I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when the thing comes that shall cause you terror and panic, 
Proverbs1:27 When your panic comes as a storm and desolation and your calamity comes on as a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you." 
Proverbs1:28 Then will they call upon me [Wisdom] but I will not answer; they will seek me early and diligently but they will not find me. [Job 27:9; 35:12, 13; Isa. 1:15, 16; Jer. 11:11; Mic. 3:4; James 4:3.]" 
Proverbs1:28 Then will they call upon me [Wisdom] but I will not answer; they will seek me early and diligently but they will not find me. [Job 27:9; 35:12, 13; Isa. 1:15, 16; Jer. 11:11; Mic. 3:4; James 4:3.]" 
Proverbs1:29 Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord, [Prov. 8:13.]" 
Proverbs1:30 Would accept none of my counsel, and despised all my reproof," 
Proverbs1:31 Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way and be satiated with their own devices. 
Proverbs1:32 For the backsliding of the simple shall slay them, and the careless ease of [self-confident] fools shall destroy them. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs1:33 But whoso hearkens to me [Wisdom] shall dwell securely and in confident trust and shall be quiet, without fear or dread of evil." 
Proverbs2:1 MY SON, if you will receive my words and treasure up my commandments within you," 
Proverbs2:2 Making your ear attentive to skillful and godly Wisdom and inclining and directing your heart and mind to understanding [applying all your powers to the quest for it]; 
Proverbs2:3 Yes, if you cry out for insight and raise your voice for understanding," 
Proverbs2:4 If you seek [Wisdom] as for silver and search for skillful and godly Wisdom as for hidden treasures," 
Proverbs2:5 Then you will understand the reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of [our omniscient] God. [Prov. 1:7.] 
Proverbs2:6 For the Lord gives skillful and godly Wisdom; from His mouth come knowledge and understanding. 
Proverbs2:7 He hides away sound and godly Wisdom and stores it for the righteous (those who are upright and in right standing with Him); He is a shield to those who walk uprightly and in integrity," 
Proverbs2:8 That He may guard the paths of justice; yes, He preserves the way of His saints. [I Sam. 2:9; Ps. 66:8, 9.]" 
Proverbs2:9 Then you will understand righteousness, justice, and fair dealing [in every area and relation]; yes, you will understand every good path." 
Proverbs2:10 For skillful and godly Wisdom shall enter into your heart, and knowledge shall be pleasant to you." 
Proverbs2:11 Discretion shall watch over you, understanding shall keep you," 
Proverbs2:12 To deliver you from the way of evil and the evil men, from men who speak perverse things and are liars," 
Proverbs2:13 Men who forsake the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness," 
Proverbs2:14 Who rejoice to do evil and delight in the perverseness of evil," 
Proverbs2:15 Who are crooked in their ways, wayward and devious in their paths." 
Proverbs2:16 [Discretion shall watch over you, understanding shall keep you] to deliver you from the alien woman, from the outsider with her flattering words, [Prov. 2:11.]" 
Proverbs2:17 Who forsakes the husband and guide of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God. 
Proverbs2:18 For her house sinks down to death and her paths to the spirits [of the dead]. 
Proverbs2:19 None who go to her return again, neither do they attain or regain the paths of life." 
Proverbs2:20 So may you walk in the way of good men, and keep to the paths of the [consistently] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God)." 
Proverbs2:21 For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the men of integrity, blameless and complete [in God's sight], shall remain in it;" 
Proverbs2:22 But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the treacherous shall be rooted out of it." 
Proverbs3:1 MY SON, forget not my law or teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments;" 
Proverbs3:2 For length of days and years of a life [worth living] and tranquility [inward and outward and continuing through old age till death], these shall they add to you." 
Proverbs3:3 Let not mercy and kindness [shutting out all hatred and selfishness] and truth [shutting out all deliberate hypocrisy or falsehood] forsake you; bind them about your neck, write them upon the tablet of your heart. [Col. 3:9-12.]" 
Proverbs3:4 So shall you find favor, good understanding, and high esteem in the sight [or judgment] of God and man. [Luke 2:52.]" 
Proverbs3:5 Lean on, trust in, and be confident in the Lord with all your heart and mind and do not rely on your own insight or understanding." 
Proverbs3:6 In all your ways know, recognize, and acknowledge Him, and He will direct and make straight and plain your paths." 
Proverbs3:7 Be not wise in your own eyes; reverently fear and worship the Lord and turn [entirely] away from evil. [Prov. 8:13.] 
Proverbs3:8 It shall be health to your nerves and sinews, and marrow and moistening to your bones." 
Proverbs3:9 Honor the Lord with your capital and sufficiency [from righteous labors] and with the firstfruits of all your income; [Deut. 26:2; Mal. 3:10; Luke 14:13, 14.]" 
Proverbs3:10 So shall your storage places be filled with plenty, and your vats shall be overflowing with new wine. [Deut. 28:8.]" 
Proverbs3:11 My son, do not despise or shrink from the chastening of the Lord [His correction by punishment or by subjection to suffering or trial]; neither be weary of or impatient about or loathe or abhor His reproof, [Ps. 94:12; Heb. 12:5, 6; Rev. 3:19.]" 
Proverbs3:12 For whom the Lord loves He corrects, even as a father corrects the son in whom he delights." 
Proverbs3:13 Happy (blessed, fortunate, enviable) is the man who finds skillful and godly Wisdom, and the man who gets understanding [drawing it forth from God's Word and life's experiences]," 
Proverbs3:14 For the gaining of it is better than the gaining of silver, and the profit of it better than fine gold." 
Proverbs3:15 Skillful and godly Wisdom is more precious than rubies; and nothing you can wish for is to be compared to her. [Job 28:12-18.] 
Proverbs3:15 Skillful and godly Wisdom is more precious than rubies; and nothing you can wish for is to be compared to her. [Job 28:12-18.] 
Proverbs3:16 Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand are riches and honor. [Prov. 8:12-21; I Tim. 4:8.]" 
Proverbs3:17 Her ways are highways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace." 
Proverbs3:18 She is a tree of life to those who lay hold on her; and happy (blessed, fortunate, to be envied) is everyone who holds her fast." 
Proverbs3:19 The Lord by skillful and godly Wisdom has founded the earth; by understanding He has established the heavens. [Col. 1:16.] 
Proverbs3:20 By His knowledge the deeps were broken up, and the skies distill the dew." 
Proverbs3:21 My son, let them not escape from your sight, but keep sound and godly Wisdom and discretion," 
Proverbs3:22 And they will be life to your inner self, and a gracious ornament to your neck (your outer self)." 
Proverbs3:23 Then you will walk in your way securely and in confident trust, and you shall not dash your foot or stumble. [Ps. 91:11, 12; Prov. 10:9.]" 
Proverbs3:24 When you lie down, you shall not be afraid; yes, you shall lie down, and your sleep shall be sweet." 
Proverbs3:25 Be not afraid of sudden terror and panic, nor of the stormy blast or the storm and ruin of the wicked when it comes [for you will be guiltless]," 
Proverbs3:26 For the Lord shall be your confidence, firm and strong, and shall keep your foot from being caught [in a trap or some hidden danger]." 
Proverbs3:27 Withhold not good from those to whom it is due [its rightful owners], when it is in the power of your hand to do it. [Rom. 13:7; Gal. 6:10.]" 
Proverbs3:28 Do not say to your neighbor, Go, and come again; and tomorrow I will give it,when you have it with you. [Lev. 19:13; Deut. 24:15.]" 
Proverbs3:29 Do not contrive or dig up or cultivate evil against your neighbor, who dwells trustingly and confidently beside you." 
Proverbs3:30 Contend not with a man for no reason,when he has done you no wrong. [Rom. 12:18.] 
Proverbs3:31 Do not resentfully envy and be jealous of an unscrupulous, grasping man, and choose none of his ways. [Ps. 37:1; 73:3; Prov. 24:1.]" 
Proverbs3:32 For the perverse are an abomination [extremely disgusting and detestable] to the Lord; but His confidential communion and secret counsel are with the [uncompromisingly] righteous (those who are upright and in right standing with Him). [Ps. 25:14.] 
Proverbs3:33 The curse of the Lord is in and on the house of the wicked, but He declares blessed (joyful and favored with blessings) the home of the just and consistently righteous. [Ps. 37:22; Zech. 5:4; Mal. 2:2.]" 
Proverbs3:34 Though He scoffs at the scoffers and scorns the scorners, yet He gives His undeserved favor to the low [in rank], the humble, and the afflicted. [James 4:6; I Pet. 5:5.]" 
Proverbs3:35 The wise shall inherit glory (all honor and good) but shame is the highest rank conferred on [self-confident] fools. [Isa. 32:6.] 
Proverbs4:1 HEAR, MY sons, the instruction of a father, and pay attention in order to gain and to know intelligent discernment, comprehension, and interpretation [of spiritual matters]." 
Proverbs4:2 For I give you good doctrine [what is to be received]; do not forsake my teaching. 
Proverbs4:3 When I [Solomon] was a son with my father [David], tender and the only son in the sight of my mother [Bathsheba]," 
Proverbs4:4 He taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments and live. [I Chron. 28:9; Eph. 6:4.]" 
Proverbs4:5 Get skillful and godly Wisdom, get understanding (discernment, comprehension, and interpretation); do not forget and do not turn back from the words of my mouth." 
Proverbs4:6 Forsake not [Wisdom], and she will keep, defend, and protect you; love her, and she will guard you." 
Proverbs4:7 The beginning of Wisdom is: get Wisdom (skillful and godly Wisdom)! [For skillful and godly Wisdom is the principal thing.] And with all you have gotten, get understanding (discernment, comprehension, and interpretation). [James 1:5.]" 
Proverbs4:8 Prize Wisdom highly and exalt her, and she will exalt and promote you; she will bring you to honor when you embrace her." 
Proverbs4:9 She shall give to your head a wreath of gracefulness; a crown of beauty and glory will she deliver to you. 
Proverbs4:10 Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of your life shall be many." 
Proverbs4:11 I have taught you in the way of skillful and godly Wisdom [which is comprehensive insight into the ways and purposes of God]; I have led you in paths of uprightness. 
Proverbs4:12 When you walk, your steps shall not be hampered [your path will be clear and open]; and when you run, you shall not stumble." 
Proverbs4:13 Take firm hold of instruction, do not let go; guard her, for she is your life." 
Proverbs4:14 Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men." 
Proverbs4:15 Avoid it, do not go on it; turn from it and pass on." 
Proverbs4:16 For they cannot sleep unless they have caused trouble or vexation; their sleep is taken away unless they have caused someone to fall. 
Proverbs4:17 For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. 
Proverbs4:18 But the path of the [uncompromisingly] just and righteous is like the light of dawn, that shines more and more (brighter and clearer) until [it reaches its full strength and glory in] the perfect day [to be prepared]. [II Sam. 23:4; Matt. 5:14; Phil. 2:15.]" 
Proverbs4:19 The way of the wicked is like deep darkness; they do not know over what they stumble. [John 12:35.] 
Proverbs4:20 My son, attend to my words; consent and submit to my sayings." 
Proverbs4:21 Let them not depart from your sight; keep them in the center of your heart. 
Proverbs4:22 For they are life to those who find them, healing and health to all their flesh." 
Proverbs4:23 Keep and guard your heart with all vigilance and above all that you guard, for out of it flow the springs of life." 
Proverbs4:24 Put away from you false and dishonest speech, and willful and contrary talk put far from you." 
Proverbs4:25 Let your eyes look right on [with fixed purpose], and let your gaze be straight before you." 
Proverbs4:26 Consider well the path of your feet, and let all your ways be established and ordered aright." 
Proverbs4:27 Turn not aside to the right hand or to the left; remove your foot from evil. 
Proverbs5:1 MY SON, be attentive to my Wisdom [godly Wisdom learned by actual and costly experience], and incline your ear to my understanding [of what is becoming and prudent for you]," 
Proverbs5:2 That you may exercise proper discrimination and discretion and your lips may guard and keep knowledge and the wise answer [to temptation]. 
Proverbs5:3 For the lips of a loose woman drip honey as a honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil; [Ezek. 20:30; Col. 2:8-10; II Pet. 2:14-17.]" 
Proverbs5:4 But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged and devouring sword." 
Proverbs5:5 Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold of Sheol (Hades, the place of the dead)." 
Proverbs5:6 She loses sight of and walks not in the path of life; her ways wind about aimlessly, and you cannot know them." 
Proverbs5:7 Now therefore, my sons, listen to me, and depart not from the words of my mouth." 
Proverbs5:8 Let your way in life be far from her, and come not near the door of her house [avoid the very scenes of temptation], [Prov. 4:15; Rom. 16:17; I Thess. 5:19-22.]" 
Proverbs5:9 Lest you give your honor to others and your years to those without mercy," 
Proverbs5:10 Lest strangers [and false teachings] take their fill of your strength and wealth and your labors go to the house of an alien [from God], 
Proverbs5:11 And you groan and mourn when your end comes, when your flesh and body are consumed," 
Proverbs5:12 And you say, How I hated instruction and discipline, and my heart despised reproof!" 
Proverbs5:13 I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers nor submitted and consented to those who instructed me. 
Proverbs5:14 [The extent and boldness of] my sin involved almost all evil [in the estimation] of the congregation and the community. 
Proverbs5:15 Drink waters out of your own cistern [of a pure marriage relationship], and fresh running waters out of your own well." 
Proverbs5:16 Should your offspring be dispersed abroad as water brooks in the streets? 
Proverbs5:17 [Confine yourself to your own wife] let your children be for you alone, and not the children of strangers with you." 
Proverbs5:18 Let your fountain [of human life] be blessed [with the rewards of fidelity], and rejoice in the wife of your youth." 
Proverbs5:19 Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant doe [tender, gentle, attractive],let her bosom satisfy you at all times, and always be transported with delight in her love." 
Proverbs5:20 Why should you, my son, be infatuated with a loose woman, embrace the bosom of an outsider, and go astray?" 
Proverbs5:21 For the ways of man are directly before the eyes of the Lord, and He [Who would have us live soberly, chastely, and godly] carefully weighs all man's goings. [II Chron. 16:9; Job 31:4; 34:21; Prov. 15:3; Jer. 16:17; Hos. 7:2; Heb. 4:13.]" 
Proverbs5:21 For the ways of man are directly before the eyes of the Lord, and He [Who would have us live soberly, chastely, and godly] carefully weighs all man's goings. [II Chron. 16:9; Job 31:4; 34:21; Prov. 15:3; Jer. 16:17; Hos. 7:2; Heb. 4:13.]" 
Proverbs5:22 His own iniquities shall ensnare the wicked man, and he shall be held with the cords of his sin." 
Proverbs5:23 He will die for lack of discipline and instruction, and in the greatness of his folly he will go astray and be lost." 
Proverbs6:1 MY SON, if you have become security for your neighbor, if you have given your pledge for a stranger or another," 
Proverbs6:2 You are snared with the words of your lips, you are caught by the speech of your mouth." 
Proverbs6:3 Do this now [at once and earnestly], my son, and deliver yourself when you have put yourself into the power of your neighbor; go, bestir and humble yourself, and beg your neighbor [to pay his debt and thereby release you]." 
Proverbs6:4 Give not [unnecessary] sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids;" 
Proverbs6:5 Deliver yourself, as a roe or gazelle from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler." 
Proverbs6:6 Go to the ant, you sluggard; consider her ways and be wise!,[Job 12:7.]" 
Proverbs6:6 Go to the ant, you sluggard; consider her ways and be wise!,[Job 12:7.]" 
Proverbs6:7 Which, having no chief, overseer, or ruler," 
Proverbs6:8 Provides her food in the summer and gathers her supplies in the harvest. 
Proverbs6:9 How long will you sleep, O sluggard? When will you arise out of your sleep? [Prov. 24:33, 34.]" 
Proverbs6:10 Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to lie down and sleep," 
Proverbs6:11 So will your poverty come like a robber or one who travels [with slowly but surely approaching steps] and your want like an armed man [making you helpless]. [Prov. 10:4; 13:4; 20:4.] 
Proverbs6:12 A worthless person, a wicked man, is he who goes about with a perverse (contrary, wayward) mouth." 
Proverbs6:13 He winks with his eyes, he speaks by shuffling or tapping with his feet, he makes signs [to mislead and deceive] and teaches with his fingers." 
Proverbs6:14 Willful and contrary in his heart, he devises trouble, vexation, and evil continually; he lets loose discord and sows it." 
Proverbs6:15 Therefore upon him shall the crushing weight of calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken, and that without remedy." 
Proverbs6:16 These six things the Lord hates, indeed, seven are an abomination to Him:" 
Proverbs6:17 A proud look [the spirit that makes one overestimate himself and underestimate others], a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, [Ps. 120:2, 3.]" 
Proverbs6:18 A heart that manufactures wicked thoughts and plans, feet that are swift in running to evil," 
Proverbs6:19 A false witness who breathes out lies [even under oath], and he who sows discord among his brethren." 
Proverbs6:20 My son, keep your father's [God-given] commandment and forsake not the law of [God] your mother [taught you]. [Eph. 6:1-3.]" 
Proverbs6:21 Bind them continually upon your heart and tie them about your neck. [Prov. 3:3; 7:3.] 
Proverbs6:22 When you go, they [the words of your parents' God] shall lead you; when you sleep, they shall keep you; and when you waken, they shall talk with you." 
Proverbs6:23 For the commandment is a lamp, and the whole teaching [of the law] is light, and reproofs of discipline are the way of life, [Ps. 19:8; 119:105.]" 
Proverbs6:24 To keep you from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a loose woman." 
Proverbs6:25 Lust not after her beauty in your heart, neither let her capture you with her eyelids." 
Proverbs6:26 For on account of a harlot a man is brought to a piece of bread, and the adulteress stalks and snares [as with a hook] the precious life [of a man]." 
Proverbs6:27 Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? 
Proverbs6:28 Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? 
Proverbs6:29 So he who cohabits with his neighbor's wife [will be tortured with evil consequences and just retribution]; he who touches her shall not be innocent or go unpunished. 
Proverbs6:30 Men do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry; 
Proverbs6:31 But if he is found out, he must restore seven times [what he stole]; he must give the whole substance of his house [if necessary,to meet his fine]." 
Proverbs6:32 But whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks heart and understanding (moral principle and prudence); he who does it is destroying his own life. 
Proverbs6:33 Wounds and disgrace will he get, and his reproach will not be wiped away." 
Proverbs6:34 For jealousy makes [the wronged] man furious; therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance [upon the detected one]. 
Proverbs6:35 He will not consider any ransom [offered to buy him off from demanding full punishment]; neither will he be satisfied, though you offer him many gifts and bribes." 
Proverbs7:1 MY SON, keep my words; lay up within you my commandments [for use when needed] and treasure them." 
Proverbs7:2 Keep my commandments and live, and keep my law and teaching as the apple (the pupil) of your eye." 
Proverbs7:3 Bind them on your fingers; write them on the tablet of your heart. 
Proverbs7:4 Say to skillful and godly Wisdom, You are my sister, and regard understanding or insight as your intimate friend," 
Proverbs7:5 That they may keep you from the loose woman, from the adventuress who flatters with and makes smooth her words." 
Proverbs7:6 For at the window of my house I looked out through my lattice. 
Proverbs7:7 And among the simple (empty-headed and emptyhearted) ones, I perceived among the youths a young man void of good sense," 
Proverbs7:8 Sauntering through the street near the [loose woman's] corner; and he went the way to her house 
Proverbs7:9 In the twilight, in the evening; night black and dense was falling [over the young man's life]." 
Proverbs7:10 And behold, there met him a woman, dressed as a harlot and sly and cunning of heart." 
Proverbs7:11 She is turbulent and willful; her feet stay not in her house; 
Proverbs7:12 Now in the streets, now in the marketplaces, she sets her ambush at every corner." 
Proverbs7:13 So she caught him and kissed him and with impudent face she said to him," 
Proverbs7:14 Sacrifices of peace offerings were due from me; this day I paid my vows. 
Proverbs7:15 So I came forth to meet you [that you might share with me the feast from my offering]; diligently I sought your face, and I have found you." 
Proverbs7:16 I have spread my couch with rugs and cushions of tapestry, with striped sheets of fine linen of Egypt." 
Proverbs7:17 I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon." 
Proverbs7:18 Come, let us take our fill of love until morning; let us console and delight ourselves with love." 
Proverbs7:19 For the man is not at home; he is gone on a long journey; 
Proverbs7:20 He has taken a bag of money with him and will come home at the day appointed [at the full moon]. 
Proverbs7:21 With much justifying and enticing argument she persuades him, with the allurements of her lips she leads him [to overcome his conscience and his fears] and forces him along." 
Proverbs7:22 Suddenly he [yields and] follows her reluctantly like an ox moving to the slaughter, like one in fetters going to the correction [to be given] to a fool or like a dog enticed by food to the muzzle" 
Proverbs7:23 Till a dart [of passion] pierces and inflames his vitals; then like a bird fluttering straight into the net [he hastens], not knowing that it will cost him his life." 
Proverbs7:24 Listen to me now therefore, O you sons, and be attentive to the words of my mouth." 
Proverbs7:25 Let not your heart incline toward her ways, do not stray into her paths." 
Proverbs7:26 For she has cast down many wounded; indeed, all her slain are a mighty host. [Neh. 13:26.]" 
Proverbs7:27 Her house is the way to Sheol (Hades, the place of the dead), going down to the chambers of death." 
Proverbs8:1 DOES NOT skillful and godly Wisdom cry out, and understanding raise her voice [in contrast to the loose woman]?" 
Proverbs8:2 On the top of the heights beside the way, where the paths meet, stands Wisdom [skillful and godly];" 
Proverbs8:3 At the gates at the entrance of the town, at the coming in at the doors, she cries out:" 
Proverbs8:4 To you, O men, I call, and my voice is directed to the sons of men." 
Proverbs8:5 O you simple and thoughtless ones, understand prudence; you [self-confident] fools, be of an understanding heart. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs8:6 Hear, for I will speak excellent and princely things; and the opening of my lips shall be for right things." 
Proverbs8:7 For my mouth shall utter truth, and wrongdoing is detestable and loathsome to my lips." 
Proverbs8:8 All the words of my mouth are righteous (upright and in right standing with God); there is nothing contrary to truth or crooked in them. 
Proverbs8:9 They are all plain to him who understands [and opens his heart], and right to those who find knowledge [and live by it]." 
Proverbs8:10 Receive my instruction in preference to [striving for] silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold," 
Proverbs8:11 For skillful and godly Wisdom is better than rubies or pearls, and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it. [Job 28:15; Ps. 19:10; 119:127.]" 
Proverbs8:11 For skillful and godly Wisdom is better than rubies or pearls, and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it. [Job 28:15; Ps. 19:10; 119:127.]" 
Proverbs8:12 I, Wisdom [from God], make prudence my dwelling, and I find out knowledge and discretion. [James 1:5.]" 
Proverbs8:13 The reverent fear and worshipful awe of the Lord [includes] the hatred of evil; pride, arrogance, the evil way, and perverted and twisted speech I hate." 
Proverbs8:14 I have counsel and sound knowledge, I have understanding, I have might and power." 
Proverbs8:15 By me kings reign and rulers decree justice. [Dan. 2:21; Rom. 13:1.] 
Proverbs8:16 By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges and governors of the earth." 
Proverbs8:17 I love those who love me, and those who seek me early and diligently shall find me. [I Sam. 2:30; Ps. 91:14; John 14:21; James 1:5.]" 
Proverbs8:18 Riches and honor are with me, enduring wealth and righteousness (uprightness in every area and relation, and right standing with God). [Prov. 3:16; Matt. 6:33.]" 
Proverbs8:19 My fruit is better than gold, yes, than refined gold, and my increase than choice silver." 
Proverbs8:20 I [Wisdom] walk in the way of righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation), in the midst of the paths of justice," 
Proverbs8:21 That I may cause those who love me to inherit [true] riches and that I may fill their treasuries. 
Proverbs8:22 The Lord formed and brought me [Wisdom] forth at the beginning of His way, before His acts of old." 
Proverbs8:23 I [Wisdom] was inaugurated and ordained from everlasting, from the beginning, before ever the earth existed. [John 1:1; I Cor. 1:24.]" 
Proverbs8:24 When there were no deeps, I was brought forth, when there were no fountains laden with water." 
Proverbs8:25 Before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth, [Job 15:7, 8.]" 
Proverbs8:25 Before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth, [Job 15:7, 8.]" 
Proverbs8:26 While as yet He had not made the land or the fields or the first of the dust of the earth. 
Proverbs8:27 When He prepared the heavens, I [Wisdom] was there; when He drew a circle upon the face of the deep and stretched out the firmament over it," 
Proverbs8:28 When He made firm the skies above, when He established the fountains of the deep," 
Proverbs8:29 When He gave to the sea its limit and His decree that the waters should not transgress [across the boundaries set by] His command, when He appointed the foundations of the earth,[Job 38:10, 11; Ps. 104:6-9; Jer. 5:22.]" 
Proverbs8:29 When He gave to the sea its limit and His decree that the waters should not transgress [across the boundaries set by] His command, when He appointed the foundations of the earth,[Job 38:10, 11; Ps. 104:6-9; Jer. 5:22.]" 
Proverbs8:30 Then I [Wisdom] was beside Him as a master and director of the work; and I was daily His delight, rejoicing before Him always, [Matt. 3:17; John 1:2, 18.]" 
Proverbs8:31 Rejoicing in His inhabited earth and delighting in the sons of men. [Ps. 16:3.] 
Proverbs8:32 Now therefore listen to me, O you sons; for blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are those who keep my ways. [Ps. 119:1, 2; 128:1, 2; Luke 11:28.]" 
Proverbs8:33 Hear instruction and be wise, and do not refuse or neglect it." 
Proverbs8:34 Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) is the man who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors." 
Proverbs8:35 For whoever finds me [Wisdom] finds life and draws forth and obtains favor from the Lord. 
Proverbs8:36 But he who misses me or sins against me wrongs and injures himself; all who hate me love and court death. 
Proverbs9:1 WISDOM HAS built her house; she has hewn out and set up her seven [perfect number of] pillars. 
Proverbs9:2 She has killed her beasts, she has mixed her [spiritual] wine; she has also set her table. [Matt. 22:2-4.]" 
Proverbs9:3 She has sent out her maids to cry from the highest places of the town: 
Proverbs9:4 Whoever is simple (easily led astray and wavering), let him turn in here! As for him who lacks understanding, [God's] Wisdom says to him," 
Proverbs9:5 Come, eat of my bread and drink of the [spiritual] wine which I have mixed. [Isa. 55:1; John 6:27.]" 
Proverbs9:6 Leave off, simple ones [forsake the foolish and simpleminded] and live! And walk in the way of insight and understanding." 
Proverbs9:7 He who rebukes a scorner heaps upon himself abuse, and he who reproves a wicked man gets for himself bruises." 
Proverbs9:8 Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate you; reprove a wise man, and he will love you. [Ps. 141:5.]" 
Proverbs9:9 Give instruction to a wise man and he will be yet wiser; teach a righteous man (one upright and in right standing with God) and he will increase in learning. 
Proverbs9:10 The reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord is the beginning (the chief and choice part) of Wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is insight and understanding." 
Proverbs9:11 For by me [Wisdom from God] your days shall be multiplied, and the years of your life shall be increased." 
Proverbs9:12 If you are wise, you are wise for yourself; if you scorn, you alone will bear it and pay the penalty." 
Proverbs9:13 The foolish woman is noisy; she is simple and open to all forms of evil, she [willfully and recklessly] knows nothing whatever [of eternal value]." 
Proverbs9:14 For she sits at the door of her house or on a seat in the conspicuous places of the town," 
Proverbs9:15 Calling to those who pass by, who go uprightly on their way:" 
Proverbs9:16 Whoever is simple (wavering and easily led astray), let him turn in here! And as for him who lacks understanding, she says to him," 
Proverbs9:17 Stolen waters (pleasures) are sweet [because they are forbidden]; and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. [Prov. 20:17.] 
Proverbs9:18 But he knows not that the shades of the dead are there [specters haunting the scene of past transgressions], and that her invited guests are [already sunk] in the depths of Sheol (the lower world, Hades, the place of the dead)." 
Proverbs10:1 THE PROVERBS of Solomon: A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish and self-confident son is the grief of his mother." 
Proverbs10:2 Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation) delivers from death." 
Proverbs10:3 The Lord will not allow the [uncompromisingly] righteous to famish, but He thwarts the desire of the wicked. [Ps. 34:9, 10; 37:25.]" 
Proverbs10:4 He becomes poor who works with a slack and idle hand, but the hand of the diligent makes rich." 
Proverbs10:5 He who gathers in summer is a wise son, but he who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame." 
Proverbs10:6 Blessings are upon the head of the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence." 
Proverbs10:7 The memory of the [uncompromisingly] righteous is a blessing, but the name of the wicked shall rot. [Ps. 112:6; 9:5.]" 
Proverbs10:8 The wise in heart will accept and obey commandments, but the foolish of lips will fall headlong." 
Proverbs10:9 He who walks uprightly walks securely, but he who takes a crooked way shall be found out and punished." 
Proverbs10:10 He who winks with the eye [craftily and with malice] causes sorrow; the foolish of lips will fall headlong but he who boldly reproves makes peace. 
Proverbs10:11 The mouth of the [uncompromisingly] righteous man is a well of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence." 
Proverbs10:12 Hatred stirs up contentions, but love covers all transgressions." 
Proverbs10:13 On the lips of him who has discernment skillful and godly Wisdom is found, but discipline and the rod are for the back of him who is without sense and understanding." 
Proverbs10:14 Wise men store up knowledge [in mind and heart], but the mouth of the foolish is a present destruction." 
Proverbs10:15 The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the poverty of the poor is their ruin. [Ps. 52:7; I Tim. 6:17.] 
Proverbs10:16 The earnings of the righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) lead to life, but the profit of the wicked leads to further sin. [Rom. 6:21; I Tim. 6:10.]" 
Proverbs10:17 He who heeds instruction and correction is [not only himself] in the way of life [but also] is a way of life for others. And he who neglects or refuses reproof [not only himself] goes astray [but also] causes to err and is a path toward ruin for others. 
Proverbs10:18 He who hides hatred is of lying lips, and he who utters slander is a [self-confident] fool. [Prov. 26:24-26.]" 
Proverbs10:19 In a multitude of words transgression is not lacking, but he who restrains his lips is prudent." 
Proverbs10:20 The tongues of those who are upright and in right standing with God are as choice silver; the minds of those who are wicked and out of harmony with God are of little value. 
Proverbs10:21 The lips of the [uncompromisingly] righteous feed and guide many, but fools die for want of understanding and heart." 
Proverbs10:22 The blessing of the Lord,it makes [truly] rich, and He adds no sorrow with it [neither does toiling increase it]." 
Proverbs10:23 It is as sport to a [self-confident] fool to do wickedness, but to have skillful and godly Wisdom is pleasure and relaxation to a man of understanding." 
Proverbs10:24 The thing a wicked man fears shall come upon him, but the desire of the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall be granted." 
Proverbs10:25 When the whirlwind passes, the wicked are no more, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous have an everlasting foundation. [Ps. 125:1; Matt. 7:24-27.]" 
Proverbs10:26 As vinegar to the teeth and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who employ and send him." 
Proverbs10:27 The reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord prolongs one's days, but the years of the wicked shall be made short." 
Proverbs10:28 The hope of the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) is gladness, but the expectation of the wicked (those who are out of harmony with God) comes to nothing." 
Proverbs10:29 The way of the Lord is strength and a stronghold to the upright, but it is destruction to the workers of iniquity." 
Proverbs10:30 The [consistently] righteous shall never be removed, but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth [eventually]. [Ps. 37:22; 125:1.]" 
Proverbs10:31 The mouths of the righteous (those harmonious with God) bring forth skillful and godly Wisdom, but the perverse tongue shall be cut down [like a barren and rotten tree]." 
Proverbs10:32 The lips of the [uncompromisingly] righteous know [and therefore utter] what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked knows [and therefore speaks only] what is obstinately willful and contrary." 
Proverbs11:1 A FALSE balance and unrighteous dealings are extremely offensive and shamefully sinful to the Lord, but a just weight is His delight. [Lev. 19:35, 36; Prov. 16:11.]" 
Proverbs11:2 When swelling and pride come, then emptiness and shame come also, but with the humble (those who are lowly, who have been pruned or chiseled by trial, and renounce self) are skillful and godly Wisdom and soundness." 
Proverbs11:3 The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the willful contrariness and crookedness of the treacherous shall destroy them." 
Proverbs11:4 Riches provide no security in any day of wrath and judgment, but righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) delivers from death. [Prov. 10:2; Zeph. 1:18.]" 
Proverbs11:5 The righteousness of the blameless shall rectify and make plain their way and keep it straight, but the wicked shall fall by their own wickedness." 
Proverbs11:6 The righteousness of the upright [their rectitude in every area and relation] shall deliver them, but the treacherous shall be taken in their own iniquity and greedy desire." 
Proverbs11:7 When the wicked man dies, his hope [for the future] perishes; and the expectation of the godless comes to nothing." 
Proverbs11:8 The [uncompromisingly] righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked gets into it instead." 
Proverbs11:9 With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor, but through knowledge and superior discernment shall the righteous be delivered." 
Proverbs11:10 When it goes well with the [uncompromisingly] righteous, the city rejoices, but when the wicked perish, there are shouts of joy." 
Proverbs11:11 By the blessing of the influence of the upright and God's favor [because of them] the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked." 
Proverbs11:12 He who belittles and despises his neighbor lacks sense, but a man of understanding keeps silent." 
Proverbs11:13 He who goes about as a talebearer reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy and faithful in spirit keeps the matter hidden." 
Proverbs11:14 Where no wise guidance is, the people fall, but in the multitude of counselors there is safety." 
Proverbs11:15 He who becomes security for an outsider shall smart for it, but he who hates suretyship is secure [from its penalties]." 
Proverbs11:16 A gracious and good woman wins honor [for her husband], and violent men win riches but a woman who hates righteousness is a throne of dishonor for him." 
Proverbs11:17 The merciful, kind, and generous man benefits himself [for his deeds return to bless him], but he who is cruel and callous [to the wants of others] brings on himself retribution." 
Proverbs11:18 The wicked man earns deceitful wages, but he who sows righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation) shall have a sure reward [permanent and satisfying]. [Hos. 10:12; Gal. 6:8, 9; James 3:18.]" 
Proverbs11:19 He who is steadfast in righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) attains to life, but he who pursues evil does it to his own death." 
Proverbs11:20 They who are willfully contrary in heart are extremely disgusting and shamefully vile in the eyes of the Lord, but such as are blameless and wholehearted in their ways are His delight!" 
Proverbs11:21 Assuredly [I pledge it] the wicked shall not go unpunished, but the multitude of the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall be delivered." 
Proverbs11:22 As a ring of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman who is without discretion." 
Proverbs11:23 The desire of the [consistently] righteous brings only good, but the expectation of the wicked brings wrath." 
Proverbs11:24 There are those who [generously] scatter abroad, and yet increase more; there are those who withhold more than is fitting or what is justly due, but it results only in want." 
Proverbs11:25 The liberal person shall be enriched, and he who waters shall himself be watered. [II Cor. 9:6-10.]" 
Proverbs11:26 The people curse him who holds back grain [when the public needs it], but a blessing [from God and man] is upon the head of him who sells it." 
Proverbs11:27 He who diligently seeks good seeks [God's] favor, but he who searches after evil, it shall come upon him." 
Proverbs11:28 He who leans on, trusts in, and is confident in his riches shall fall, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall flourish like a green bough." 
Proverbs11:29 He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind, and the foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart." 
Proverbs11:30 The fruit of the [uncompromisingly] righteous is a tree of life, and he who is wise captures human lives [for God, as a fisher of men,he gathers and receives them for eternity]. [Matt. 4:19; I Cor. 9:19; James 5:20.]" 
Proverbs11:31 Behold, the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall be recompensed on earth; how much more the wicked and the sinner! And if the righteous are barely saved, what will become of the ungodly and wicked? [I Pet. 4:18.]" 
Proverbs12:1 WHOEVER LOVES instruction and correction loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is like a brute beast, stupid and indiscriminating." 
Proverbs12:2 A good man obtains favor from the Lord, but a man of wicked devices He condemns." 
Proverbs12:3 A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall never be moved." 
Proverbs12:4 A virtuous and worthy wife [earnest and strong in character] is a crowning joy to her husband, but she who makes him ashamed is as rottenness in his bones. [Prov. 31:23; I Cor. 11:7.]" 
Proverbs12:5 The thoughts and purposes of the [consistently] righteous are honest and reliable, but the counsels and designs of the wicked are treacherous." 
Proverbs12:6 The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them and the innocent ones [thus endangered]." 
Proverbs12:7 The wicked are overthrown and are not, but the house of the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall stand." 
Proverbs12:8 A man shall be commended according to his Wisdom [godly Wisdom, which is comprehensive insight into the ways and purposes of God], but he who is of a perverse heart shall be despised." 
Proverbs12:9 Better is he who is lightly esteemed but works for his own support than he who assumes honor for himself and lacks bread. 
Proverbs12:10 A [consistently] righteous man regards the life of his beast, but even the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. [Deut. 25:4.]" 
Proverbs12:11 He who tills his land shall be satisfied with bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits is lacking in sense and is without understanding." 
Proverbs12:12 The wicked desire the booty of evil men, but the root of the [uncompromisingly] righteous yields [richer fruitage]." 
Proverbs12:13 The wicked is [dangerously] snared by the transgression of his lips, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall come out of trouble." 
Proverbs12:14 From the fruit of his words a man shall be satisfied with good, and the work of a man's hands shall come back to him [as a harvest]." 
Proverbs12:15 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he who listens to counsel is wise. [Prov. 3:7; 9:9; 21:2.]" 
Proverbs12:16 A fool's wrath is quickly and openly known, but a prudent man ignores an insult." 
Proverbs12:17 He who breathes out truth shows forth righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God), but a false witness utters deceit." 
Proverbs12:18 There are those who speak rashly, like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing." 
Proverbs12:19 Truthful lips shall be established forever, but a lying tongue is [credited] but for a moment." 
Proverbs12:20 Deceit is in the hearts of those who devise evil, but for the counselors of peace there is joy." 
Proverbs12:21 No [actual] evil, misfortune, or calamity shall come upon the righteous, but the wicked shall be filled with evil, misfortune, and calamity. [Job 5:19; Ps. 91:3; Prov. 12:13; Isa. 46:4; Jer. 1:8; Dan. 6:27; II Tim. 4:18.]" 
Proverbs12:21 No [actual] evil, misfortune, or calamity shall come upon the righteous, but the wicked shall be filled with evil, misfortune, and calamity. [Job 5:19; Ps. 91:3; Prov. 12:13; Isa. 46:4; Jer. 1:8; Dan. 6:27; II Tim. 4:18.]" 
Proverbs12:22 Lying lips are extremely disgusting and hateful to the Lord, but they who deal faithfully are His delight. [Prov. 6:17; 11:20; Rev. 22:15.]" 
Proverbs12:23 A prudent man is reluctant to display his knowledge, but the heart of [self-confident] fools proclaims their folly. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs12:24 The hand of the diligent will rule, but the slothful will be put to forced labor." 
Proverbs12:25 Anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, but an encouraging word makes it glad. [Ps. 50:4; Prov. 15:13.]" 
Proverbs12:26 The [consistently] righteous man is a guide to his neighbor, but the way of the wicked causes others to go astray." 
Proverbs12:27 The slothful man does not catch his game or roast it once he kills it, but the diligent man gets precious possessions." 
Proverbs12:28 Life is in the way of righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation), and in its pathway there is no death but immortality (perpetual, eternal life). [John 3:36; 4:36; 8:51; 11:26; I Cor. 15:54; Gal. 6:8.]" 
Proverbs13:1 A WISE son heeds [and is the fruit of] his father's instruction and correction, but a scoffer listens not to rebuke." 
Proverbs13:2 A good man eats good from the fruit of his mouth, but the desire of the treacherous is for violence." 
Proverbs13:3 He who guards his mouth keeps his life, but he who opens wide his lips comes to ruin." 
Proverbs13:4 The appetite of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, but the appetite of the diligent is abundantly supplied. [Prov. 10:4.]" 
Proverbs13:5 A [consistently] righteous man hates lying and deceit, but a wicked man is loathsome [his very breath spreads pollution] and he comes [surely] to shame." 
Proverbs13:6 Righteousness (rightness and justice in every area and relation) guards him who is upright in the way, but wickedness plunges into sin and overthrows the sinner." 
Proverbs13:7 One man considers himself rich, yet has nothing [to keep permanently]; another man considers himself poor, yet has great [and indestructible] riches. [Prov. 12:9; Luke 12:20, 21.]" 
Proverbs13:8 A rich man can buy his way out of threatened death by paying a ransom, but the poor man does not even have to listen to threats [from the envious]." 
Proverbs13:9 The light of the [uncompromisingly] righteous [is within him,it grows brighter and] rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked [furnishes only a derived, temporary light and] shall be put out shortly." 
Proverbs13:10 By pride and insolence comes only contention, but with the well-advised is skillful and godly Wisdom." 
Proverbs13:11 Wealth [not earned but] won in haste or unjustly or from the production of things for vain or detrimental use [such riches] will dwindle away, but he who gathers little by little will increase [his riches]." 
Proverbs13:12 Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when the desire is fulfilled, it is a tree of life." 
Proverbs13:13 Whoever despises the word and counsel [of God] brings destruction upon himself, but he who [reverently] fears and respects the commandment [of God] is rewarded." 
Proverbs13:14 The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, that one may avoid the snares of death." 
Proverbs13:15 Good understanding wins favor, but the way of the transgressor is hard [like the barren, dry soil or the impassable swamp]." 
Proverbs13:16 Every prudent man deals with knowledge, but a [self-confident] fool exposes and flaunts his folly." 
Proverbs13:17 A wicked messenger falls into evil, but a faithful ambassador brings healing." 
Proverbs13:18 Poverty and shame come to him who refuses instruction and correction, but he who heeds reproof is honored." 
Proverbs13:19 Satisfied desire is sweet to a person; therefore it is hateful and exceedingly offensive to [self-confident] fools to give up evil [upon which they have set their hearts]. 
Proverbs13:20 He who walks [as a companion] with wise men is wise, but he who associates with [self-confident] fools is [a fool himself and] shall smart for it. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs13:21 Evil pursues sinners, but the consistently upright and in right standing with God is recompensed with good." 
Proverbs13:22 A good man leaves an inheritance [of moral stability and goodness] to his children's children, and the wealth of the sinner [finds its way eventually] into the hands of the righteous, for whom it was laid up." 
Proverbs13:23 Much food is in the tilled land of the poor, but there are those who are destroyed because of injustice." 
Proverbs13:24 He who spares his rod [of discipline] hates his son, but he who loves him disciplines diligently and punishes him early. [Prov. 19:18; 22:15; 23:13; 29:15, 17.]" 
Proverbs13:25 The [uncompromisingly] righteous eats to his own satisfaction, but the stomach of the wicked is in want." 
Proverbs14:1 EVERY WISE woman builds her house, but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands." 
Proverbs14:2 He who walks in uprightness reverently and worshipfully fears the Lord, but he who is contrary and devious in his ways despises Him." 
Proverbs14:3 In the fool's own mouth is a rod [to shame] his pride, but the wise men's lips preserve them." 
Proverbs14:4 Where no oxen are, the grain crib is empty, but much increase [of crops] comes by the strength of the ox." 
Proverbs14:5 A faithful witness will not lie, but a false witness breathes out falsehoods." 
Proverbs14:6 A scoffer seeks Wisdom in vain [for his very attitude blinds and deafens him to it], but knowledge is easy to him who [being teachable] understands." 
Proverbs14:7 Go from the presence of a foolish and self-confident man, for you will not find knowledge on his lips." 
Proverbs14:8 The Wisdom [godly Wisdom, which is comprehensive insight into the ways and purposes of God] of the prudent is to understand his way, but the folly of [self-confident] fools is to deceive." 
Proverbs14:9 Fools make a mock of sin and sin mocks the fools [who are its victims; a sin offering made by them only mocks them, bringing them disappointment and disfavor], but among the upright there is the favor of God. [Prov. 10:23.]" 
Proverbs14:10 The heart knows its own bitterness, and no stranger shares its joy." 
Proverbs14:11 The house of the wicked shall be overthrown, but the tent of the upright shall flourish." 
Proverbs14:12 There is a way which seems right to a man and appears straight before him, but at the end of it is the way of death." 
Proverbs14:13 Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of mirth is heaviness and grief." 
Proverbs14:14 The backslider in heart [from God and from fearing God] shall be filled with [the fruit of] his own ways, and a good man shall be satisfied with [the fruit of] his ways [with the holy thoughts and actions which his heart prompts and in which he delights]." 
Proverbs14:15 The simpleton believes every word he hears, but the prudent man looks and considers well where he is going." 
Proverbs14:16 A wise man suspects danger and cautiously avoids evil, but the fool bears himself insolently and is [presumptuously] confident." 
Proverbs14:17 He who foams up quickly and flies into a passion deals foolishly, and a man of wicked plots and plans is hated." 
Proverbs14:18 The simple acquire folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge." 
Proverbs14:19 The evil men bow before the good, and the wicked [stand suppliantly] at the gates of the [uncompromisingly] righteous." 
Proverbs14:20 The poor is hated even by his own neighbor, but the rich has many friends." 
Proverbs14:21 He who despises his neighbor sins [against God, his fellowman, and himself], but happy (blessed and fortunate) is he who is kind and merciful to the poor." 
Proverbs14:22 Do they not err who devise evil and wander from the way of life? But loving-kindness and mercy, loyalty and faithfulness, shall be to those who devise good." 
Proverbs14:23 In all labor there is profit, but idle talk leads only to poverty." 
Proverbs14:24 The crown of the wise is their wealth of Wisdom, but the foolishness of [self-confident] fools is [nothing but] folly." 
Proverbs14:25 A truthful witness saves lives, but a deceitful witness speaks lies [and endangers lives]." 
Proverbs14:26 In the reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord there is strong confidence, and His children shall always have a place of refuge." 
Proverbs14:27 Reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, that one may avoid the snares of death. [John 4:10, 14.]" 
Proverbs14:28 In a multitude of people is the king's glory, but in a lack of people is the prince's ruin." 
Proverbs14:29 He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who is hasty of spirit exposes and exalts his folly. [Prov. 16:32; James 1:19.]" 
Proverbs14:30 A calm and undisturbed mind and heart are the life and health of the body, but envy, jealousy, and wrath are like rottenness of the bones." 
Proverbs14:31 He who oppresses the poor reproaches, mocks, and insults his Maker, but he who is kind and merciful to the needy honors Him. [Prov. 17:5; Matt. 25:40, 45.]" 
Proverbs14:32 The wicked is overthrown through his wrongdoing and calamity, but the [consistently] righteous has hope and confidence even in death." 
Proverbs14:33 Wisdom rests [silently] in the mind and heart of him who has understanding, but that which is in the inward part of [self-confident] fools is made known. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs14:34 Uprightness and right standing with God (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation) elevate a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people." 
Proverbs14:35 The king's favor is toward a wise and discreet servant, but his wrath is against him who does shamefully. [Matt. 24:45, 47.]" 
Proverbs15:1 A SOFT answer turns away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. [Prov. 25:15.]" 
Proverbs15:2 The tongue of the wise utters knowledge rightly, but the mouth of the [self-confident] fool pours out folly." 
Proverbs15:3 The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch upon the evil and the good. [Job 34:21; Prov. 5:21; Jer. 16:17; 32:19; Heb. 4:13.]" 
Proverbs15:3 The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch upon the evil and the good. [Job 34:21; Prov. 5:21; Jer. 16:17; 32:19; Heb. 4:13.]" 
Proverbs15:4 A gentle tongue [with its healing power] is a tree of life, but willful contrariness in it breaks down the spirit." 
Proverbs15:5 A fool despises his father's instruction and correction, but he who regards reproof acquires prudence." 
Proverbs15:6 In the house of the [uncompromisingly] righteous is great [priceless] treasure, but with the income of the wicked is trouble and vexation." 
Proverbs15:7 The lips of the wise disperse knowledge [sifting it as chaff from the grain]; not so the minds and hearts of the self-confident and foolish. 
Proverbs15:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination, hateful and exceedingly offensive to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is His delight! [Isa. 1:11; Jer. 6:20; Amos 5:22.]" 
Proverbs15:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination, hateful and exceedingly offensive to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is His delight! [Isa. 1:11; Jer. 6:20; Amos 5:22.]" 
Proverbs15:9 The way of the wicked is an abomination, extremely disgusting and shamefully vile to the Lord, but He loves him who pursues righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Proverbs15:10 There is severe discipline for him who forsakes God's way; and he who hates reproof will die [physically, morally, and spiritually]." 
Proverbs15:11 Sheol (the place of the dead) and Abaddon (the abyss, the final place of the accuser Satan) are both before the Lord,how much more, then, the hearts of the children of men? [Job 26:6; Ps. 139:8; Rev. 9:2; 20:1, 2.]" 
Proverbs15:11 Sheol (the place of the dead) and Abaddon (the abyss, the final place of the accuser Satan) are both before the Lord,how much more, then, the hearts of the children of men? [Job 26:6; Ps. 139:8; Rev. 9:2; 20:1, 2.]" 
Proverbs15:12 A scorner has no love for one who rebukes him; neither will he go to the wise [for counsel]. 
Proverbs15:13 A glad heart makes a cheerful countenance, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken. [Prov. 17:22.]" 
Proverbs15:14 The mind of him who has understanding seeks knowledge and inquires after and craves it, but the mouth of the [self-confident] fool feeds on folly. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs15:15 All the days of the desponding and afflicted are made evil [by anxious thoughts and forebodings], but he who has a glad heart has a continual feast [regardless of circumstances]." 
Proverbs15:16 Better is little with the reverent, worshipful fear of the Lord than great and rich treasure and trouble with it. [Ps. 37:16; Prov. 16:8; I Tim. 6:6.]" 
Proverbs15:17 Better is a dinner of herbs where love is than a fatted ox and hatred with it. [Prov. 17:1.] 
Proverbs15:18 A hot-tempered man stirs up strife, but he who is slow to anger appeases contention." 
Proverbs15:19 The way of the sluggard is overgrown with thorns [it pricks, lacerates, and entangles him], but the way of the righteous is plain and raised like a highway." 
Proverbs15:20 A wise son makes a glad father, but a self-confident and foolish man despises his mother and puts her to shame." 
Proverbs15:21 Folly is pleasure to him who is without heart and sense, but a man of understanding walks uprightly [making straight his course]. [Eph. 5:15.]" 
Proverbs15:22 Where there is no counsel, purposes are frustrated, but with many counselors they are accomplished." 
Proverbs15:23 A man has joy in making an apt answer, and a word spoken at the right moment,how good it is!" 
Proverbs15:24 The path of the wise leads upward to life, that he may avoid [the gloom] in the depths of Sheol (Hades, the place of the dead). [Phil. 3:20; Col. 3:1, 2.]" 
Proverbs15:25 The Lord tears down the house of the proud, but He makes secure the boundaries of the [consecrated] widow." 
Proverbs15:26 The thoughts of the wicked are shamefully vile and exceedingly offensive to the Lord, but the words of the pure are pleasing words to Him." 
Proverbs15:27 He who is greedy for unjust gain troubles his own household, but he who hates bribes will live. [Isa. 5:8; Jer. 17:11.]" 
Proverbs15:28 The mind of the [uncompromisingly] righteous studies how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. [I Pet. 3:15.]" 
Proverbs15:29 The Lord is far from the wicked, but He hears the prayer of the [consistently] righteous (the upright, in right standing with Him)." 
Proverbs15:30 The light in the eyes [of him whose heart is joyful] rejoices the hearts of others, and good news nourishes the bones." 
Proverbs15:31 The ear that listens to the reproof [that leads to or gives] life will remain among the wise. 
Proverbs15:32 He who refuses and ignores instruction and correction despises himself, but he who heeds reproof gets understanding." 
Proverbs15:33 The reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord brings instruction in Wisdom, and humility comes before honor." 
Proverbs16:1 THE PLANS of the mind and orderly thinking belong to man, but from the Lord comes the [wise] answer of the tongue." 
Proverbs16:2 All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the spirits (the thoughts and intents of the heart). [I Sam. 16:7; Heb. 4:12.]" 
Proverbs16:3 Roll your works upon the Lord [commit and trust them wholly to Him; He will cause your thoughts to become agreeable to His will, and] so shall your plans be established and succeed." 
Proverbs16:4 The Lord has made everything [to accommodate itself and contribute] to its own end and His own purpose,even the wicked [are fitted for their role] for the day of calamity and evil. 
Proverbs16:5 Everyone proud and arrogant in heart is disgusting, hateful, and exceedingly offensive to the Lord; be assured [I pledge it] they will not go unpunished. [Prov. 8:13; 11:20-21.]" 
Proverbs16:6 By mercy and love, truth and fidelity [to God and man,not by sacrificial offerings], iniquity is purged out of the heart, and by the reverent, worshipful fear of the Lord men depart from and avoid evil." 
Proverbs16:7 When a man's ways please the Lord, He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him." 
Proverbs16:8 Better is a little with righteousness (uprightness in every area and relation and right standing with God) than great revenues with injustice. [Ps. 37:16; Prov. 15:16.] 
Proverbs16:9 A man's mind plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps and makes them sure. [Ps. 37:23; Prov. 20:24; Jer. 10:23.]" 
Proverbs16:10 Divinely directed decisions are on the lips of the king; his mouth should not transgress in judgment. 
Proverbs16:11 A just balance and scales are the Lord's; all the weights of the bag are His work [established on His eternal principles]. 
Proverbs16:12 It is an abomination [to God and men] for kings to commit wickedness, for a throne is established and made secure by righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Proverbs16:13 Right and just lips are the delight of a king, and he loves him who speaks what is right." 
Proverbs16:14 The wrath of a king is as messengers of death, but a wise man will pacify it." 
Proverbs16:15 In the light of the king's countenance is life, and his favor is as a cloud bringing the spring rain." 
Proverbs16:16 How much better it is to get skillful and godly Wisdom than gold! And to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver. [Prov. 8:10, 19.]" 
Proverbs16:17 The highway of the upright turns aside from evil; he who guards his way preserves his life. 
Proverbs16:18 Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall." 
Proverbs16:19 Better it is to be of a humble spirit with the meek and poor than to divide the spoil with the proud. 
Proverbs16:20 He who deals wisely and heeds [God's] word and counsel shall find good, and whoever leans on, trusts in, and is confident in the Lord,happy, blessed, and fortunate is he." 
Proverbs16:21 The wise in heart are called prudent, understanding, and knowing, and winsome speech increases learning [in both speaker and listener]." 
Proverbs16:22 Understanding is a wellspring of life to those who have it, but to give instruction to fools is folly." 
Proverbs16:23 The mind of the wise instructs his mouth, and adds learning and persuasiveness to his lips." 
Proverbs16:24 Pleasant words are as a honeycomb, sweet to the mind and healing to the body." 
Proverbs16:25 There is a way that seems right to a man and appears straight before him, but at the end of it is the way of death." 
Proverbs16:26 The appetite of the laborer works for him, for [the need of] his mouth urges him on." 
Proverbs16:27 A worthless man devises and digs up mischief, and in his lips there is as a scorching fire." 
Proverbs16:28 A perverse man sows strife, and a whisperer separates close friends. [Prov. 17:9.]" 
Proverbs16:29 The exceedingly grasping, covetous, and violent man entices his neighbor, leading him in a way that is not good." 
Proverbs16:30 He who shuts his eyes to devise perverse things and who compresses his lips [as if in concealment] brings evil to pass. 
Proverbs16:31 The hoary head is a crown of beauty and glory if it is found in the way of righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation). [Prov. 20:29.] 
Proverbs16:32 He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, he who rules his [own] spirit than he who takes a city." 
Proverbs16:33 The lot is cast into the lap, but the decision is wholly of the Lord [even the events that seem accidental are really ordered by Him]." 
Proverbs17:1 BETTER IS a dry morsel with quietness than a house full of feasting [on offered sacrifices] with strife. 
Proverbs17:2 A wise servant shall have rule over a son who causes shame, and shall share in the inheritance among the brothers." 
Proverbs17:3 The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, but the Lord tries the hearts. [Ps. 26:2; Prov. 27:21; Jer. 17:10; Mal. 3:3.]" 
Proverbs17:4 An evildoer gives heed to wicked lips; and a liar listens to a mischievous tongue. 
Proverbs17:5 Whoever mocks the poor reproaches his Maker, and he who is glad at calamity shall not be held innocent or go unpunished. [Job 31:29; Prov. 14:31; Obad. 12.]" 
Proverbs17:5 Whoever mocks the poor reproaches his Maker, and he who is glad at calamity shall not be held innocent or go unpunished. [Job 31:29; Prov. 14:31; Obad. 12.]" 
Proverbs17:6 Children's children are the crown of old men, and the glory of children is their fathers. [Ps. 127:3; 128:3.]" 
Proverbs17:7 Fine or arrogant speech does not befit [an empty-headed] fool,much less do lying lips befit a prince. 
Proverbs17:8 A bribe is like a bright, precious stone that dazzles the eyes and affects the mind of him who gives it; [as if by magic] he prospers, whichever way he turns." 
Proverbs17:9 He who covers and forgives an offense seeks love, but he who repeats or harps on a matter separates even close friends." 
Proverbs17:10 A reproof enters deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred lashes into a [self-confident] fool. [Isa. 32:6.] 
Proverbs17:11 An evil man seeks only rebellion; therefore a stern and pitiless messenger shall be sent against him. 
Proverbs17:12 Let [the brute ferocity of] a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man rather than a [self-confident] fool in his folly [when he is in a rage]. [Hos. 13:8.] 
Proverbs17:13 Whoever rewards evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house. [Ps. 109:4, 5; Jer. 18:20.]" 
Proverbs17:14 The beginning of strife is as when water first trickles [from a crack in a dam]; therefore stop contention before it becomes worse and quarreling breaks out. 
Proverbs17:15 He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous are both an abomination [exceedingly disgusting and hateful] to the Lord. [Exod. 23:7; Prov. 24:24; Isa. 5:23.] 
Proverbs17:16 Of what use is money in the hand of a [self-confident] fool to buy skillful and godly Wisdom,when he has no understanding or heart for it? 
Proverbs17:17 A friend loves at all times, and is born, as is a brother, for adversity." 
Proverbs17:18 A man void of good sense gives a pledge and becomes security for another in the presence of his neighbor. 
Proverbs17:19 He who loves strife and is quarrelsome loves transgression and involves himself in guilt; he who raises high his gateway and is boastful and arrogant invites destruction. 
Proverbs17:20 He who has a wayward and crooked mind finds no good, and he who has a willful and contrary tongue will fall into calamity. [James 3:8.]" 
Proverbs17:21 He who becomes the parent of a [self-confident] fool does it to his sorrow, and the father of [an empty-headed] fool has no joy [in him]." 
Proverbs17:22 A happy heart is good medicine and a cheerful mind works healing, but a broken spirit dries up the bones. [Prov. 12:25; 15:13, 15.]" 
Proverbs17:23 A wicked man receives a bribe out of the bosom (pocket) to pervert the ways of justice. 
Proverbs17:24 A man of understanding sets skillful and godly Wisdom before his face, but the eyes of a [self-confident] fool are on the ends of the earth." 
Proverbs17:25 A self-confident and foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to her who bore him. 
Proverbs17:26 Also, to punish or fine the righteous is not good, nor to smite the noble for their uprightness." 
Proverbs17:27 He who has knowledge spares his words, and a man of understanding has a cool spirit. [James 1:19.]" 
Proverbs17:28 Even a fool when he holds his peace is considered wise; when he closes his lips he is esteemed a man of understanding. 
Proverbs18:1 HE WHO willfully separates and estranges himself [from God and man] seeks his own desire and pretext to break out against all wise and sound judgment. 
Proverbs18:2 A [self-confident] fool has no delight in understanding but only in revealing his personal opinions and himself. 
Proverbs18:3 When the wicked comes in [to the depth of evil], he becomes a contemptuous despiser [of all that is pure and good], and with inner baseness comes outer shame and reproach." 
Proverbs18:4 The words of a [discreet and wise] man's mouth are like deep waters [plenteous and difficult to fathom], and the fountain of skillful and godly Wisdom is like a gushing stream [sparkling, fresh, pure, and life-giving]." 
Proverbs18:5 To respect the person of the wicked and be partial to him, so as to deprive the [consistently] righteous of justice, is not good." 
Proverbs18:6 A [self-confident] fool's lips bring contention, and his mouth invites a beating." 
Proverbs18:7 A [self-confident] fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to himself." 
Proverbs18:8 The words of a whisperer or talebearer are as dainty morsels; they go down into the innermost parts of the body. 
Proverbs18:9 He who is loose and slack in his work is brother to him who is a destroyer and he who does not use his endeavors to heal himself is brother to him who commits suicide. 
Proverbs18:10 The name of the Lord is a strong tower; the [consistently] righteous man [upright and in right standing with God] runs into it and is safe, high [above evil] and strong." 
Proverbs18:11 The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as a high protecting wall in his own imagination and conceit." 
Proverbs18:12 Haughtiness comes before disaster, but humility before honor." 
Proverbs18:13 He who answers a matter before he hears the facts,it is folly and shame to him. [John 7:51.] 
Proverbs18:14 The strong spirit of a man sustains him in bodily pain or trouble, but a weak and broken spirit who can raise up or bear?" 
Proverbs18:15 The mind of the prudent is ever getting knowledge, and the ear of the wise is ever seeking (inquiring for and craving) knowledge." 
Proverbs18:16 A man's gift makes room for him and brings him before great men. [Gen. 32:20; I Sam. 25:27; Prov. 17:8; 21:14.] 
Proverbs18:17 He who states his case first seems right, until his rival comes and cross-examines him." 
Proverbs18:18 To cast lots puts an end to disputes and decides between powerful contenders. 
Proverbs18:19 A brother offended is harder to be won over than a strong city, and [their] contentions separate them like the bars of a castle." 
Proverbs18:20 A man's [moral] self shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth; and with the consequence of his words he must be satisfied [whether good or evil]. 
Proverbs18:21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and they who indulge in it shall eat the fruit of it [for death or life]. [Matt. 12:37.]" 
Proverbs18:22 He who finds a [true] wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the Lord. [Prov. 19:14; 31:10.] 
Proverbs18:23 The poor man uses entreaties, but the rich answers roughly." 
Proverbs18:24 The man of many friends [a friend of all the world] will prove himself a bad friend, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother." 
Proverbs19:1 BETTER IS a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is perverse in his speech and is a [self-confident] fool. 
Proverbs19:2 Desire without knowledge is not good, and to be overhasty is to sin and miss the mark." 
Proverbs19:3 The foolishness of man subverts his way [ruins his affairs]; then his heart is resentful and frets against the Lord. 
Proverbs19:4 Wealth makes many friends, but the poor man is avoided by his neighbor. [Prov. 14:20.]" 
Proverbs19:5 A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he who breathes out lies shall not escape. [Exod. 23:1; Deut. 19:16-19; Prov. 6:19; 21:28.]" 
Proverbs19:6 Many will entreat the favor of a liberal man, and every man is a friend to him who gives gifts." 
Proverbs19:7 All the brothers of a poor man detest him,how much more do his friends go far from him! He pursues them with words, but they are gone." 
Proverbs19:8 He who gains Wisdom loves his own life; he who keeps understanding shall prosper and find good. 
Proverbs19:9 A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he who breathes forth lies shall perish." 
Proverbs19:10 Luxury is not fitting for a [self-confident] fool,much less for a slave to rule over princes. 
Proverbs19:11 Good sense makes a man restrain his anger, and it is his glory to overlook a transgression or an offense." 
Proverbs19:12 The king's wrath is as terrifying as the roaring of a lion, but his favor is as [refreshing as] dew upon the grass. [Hos. 14:5.]" 
Proverbs19:13 A self-confident and foolish son is the [multiplied] calamity of his father, and the contentions of a wife are like a continual dripping [of water through a chink in the roof]." 
Proverbs19:14 House and riches are the inheritance from fathers, but a wise, understanding, and prudent wife is from the Lord. [Prov. 18:22.]" 
Proverbs19:15 Slothfulness casts one into a deep sleep, and the idle person shall suffer hunger." 
Proverbs19:16 He who keeps the commandment [of the Lord] keeps his own life, but he who despises His ways shall die. [Luke 10:28; 11:28.]" 
Proverbs19:17 He who has pity on the poor lends to the Lord, and that which he has given He will repay to him. [Prov. 28:27; Eccl. 11:1; Matt. 10:42; 25:40; II Cor. 9:6-8; Heb. 6:10.]" 
Proverbs19:18 Discipline your son while there is hope, but do not [indulge your angry resentments by undue chastisements and] set yourself to his ruin." 
Proverbs19:19 A man of great wrath shall suffer the penalty; for if you deliver him [from the consequences], he will [feel free to] cause you to do it again." 
Proverbs19:20 Hear counsel, receive instruction, and accept correction, that you may be wise in the time to come." 
Proverbs19:21 Many plans are in a man's mind, but it is the Lord's purpose for him that will stand. [Job 23:13; Ps. 33:10, 11; Isa. 14:26, 27; 46:10; Acts 5:39; Heb. 6:17.]" 
Proverbs19:21 Many plans are in a man's mind, but it is the Lord's purpose for him that will stand. [Job 23:13; Ps. 33:10, 11; Isa. 14:26, 27; 46:10; Acts 5:39; Heb. 6:17.]" 
Proverbs19:22 That which is desired in a man is loyalty and kindness [and his glory and delight are his giving], but a poor man is better than a liar." 
Proverbs19:23 The reverent, worshipful fear of the Lord leads to life, and he who has it rests satisfied; he cannot be visited with [actual] evil. [Job 5:19; Ps. 91:3; Prov. 12:13; Isa. 46:4; Jer. 1:8; Dan. 6:27; II Tim. 4:8.]" 
Proverbs19:23 The reverent, worshipful fear of the Lord leads to life, and he who has it rests satisfied; he cannot be visited with [actual] evil. [Job 5:19; Ps. 91:3; Prov. 12:13; Isa. 46:4; Jer. 1:8; Dan. 6:27; II Tim. 4:8.]" 
Proverbs19:24 The sluggard buries his hand in the dish, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again." 
Proverbs19:25 Strike a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; reprove a man of understanding, and he will increase in knowledge." 
Proverbs19:26 He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother is a son who causes shame and brings reproach. 
Proverbs19:27 Cease, my son, to hear instruction only to ignore it and stray from the words of knowledge." 
Proverbs19:28 A worthless witness scoffs at justice, and the mouth of the wicked swallows iniquity." 
Proverbs19:29 Judgments are prepared for scoffers, and stripes for the backs of [self-confident] fools. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs20:1 WINE IS a mocker, strong drink a riotous brawler; and whoever errs or reels because of it is not wise. [Prov. 23:29, 30; Isa. 28:7; Hos. 4:11.]" 
Proverbs20:2 The terror of a king is as the roaring of a lion; whoever provokes him to anger or angers himself against him sins against his own life. 
Proverbs20:3 It is an honor for a man to cease from strife and keep aloof from it, but every fool will quarrel." 
Proverbs20:4 The sluggard does not plow when winter sets in; therefore he begs in harvest and has nothing. 
Proverbs20:5 Counsel in the heart of man is like water in a deep well, but a man of understanding draws it out. [Prov. 18:4.]" 
Proverbs20:6 Many a man proclaims his own loving-kindness and goodness, but a faithful man who can find?" 
Proverbs20:7 The righteous man walks in his integrity; blessed (happy, fortunate, enviable) are his children after him." 
Proverbs20:8 A king who sits on the throne of judgment winnows out all evil [like chaff] with his eyes. 
Proverbs20:9 Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin? [I Kings 8:46; II Chron. 6:36; Job 9:30; 14:4; Ps. 51:5; I John 1:8.]" 
Proverbs20:9 Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin? [I Kings 8:46; II Chron. 6:36; Job 9:30; 14:4; Ps. 51:5; I John 1:8.]" 
Proverbs20:10 Diverse weights [one for buying and another for selling] and diverse measures,both of them are exceedingly offensive and abhorrent to the Lord. [Deut. 25:13; Mic. 6:10, 11.]" 
Proverbs20:11 Even a child is known by his acts, whether [or not] what he does is pure and right." 
Proverbs20:12 The hearing ear and the seeing eye,the Lord has made both of them. 
Proverbs20:13 Love not sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes and you will be satisfied with bread." 
Proverbs20:14 It is worthless, it is worthless! says the buyer; but when he goes his way, then he boasts [about his bargain]." 
Proverbs20:15 There is gold, and a multitude of pearls, but the lips of knowledge are a vase of preciousness [the most precious of all]. [Job 28:12, 16-19; Prov. 3:15; 8:11.]" 
Proverbs20:15 There is gold, and a multitude of pearls, but the lips of knowledge are a vase of preciousness [the most precious of all]. [Job 28:12, 16-19; Prov. 3:15; 8:11.]" 
Proverbs20:16 [The judge tells the creditor] Take the garment of one who is security for a stranger; and hold him in pledge when he is security for foreigners. 
Proverbs20:17 Food gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel." 
Proverbs20:18 Purposes and plans are established by counsel; and [only] with good advice make or carry on war. 
Proverbs20:19 He who goes about as a talebearer reveals secrets; therefore associate not with him who talks too freely. [Rom. 16:17, 18.]" 
Proverbs20:20 Whoever curses his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in complete darkness." 
Proverbs20:21 An inheritance hastily gotten [by greedy, unjust means] at the beginning, in the end it will not be blessed. [Prov. 28:20; Hab. 2:6.]" 
Proverbs20:22 Do not say, I will repay evil; wait [expectantly] for the Lord, and He will rescue you. [II Sam. 16:12; Rom. 12:17-19; I Thess. 5:15; I Pet. 3:9.]" 
Proverbs20:23 Diverse and deceitful weights are shamefully vile and abhorrent to the Lord, and false scales are not good." 
Proverbs20:24 Man's steps are ordered by the Lord. How then can a man understand his way? 
Proverbs20:25 It is a snare to a man to utter a vow [of consecration] rashly and [not until] afterward inquire [whether he can fulfill it]. 
Proverbs20:26 A wise king winnows out the wicked [from among the good] and brings the threshing wheel over them [to separate the chaff from the grain]. 
Proverbs20:27 The spirit of man [that factor in human personality which proceeds immediately from God] is the lamp of the Lord, searching all his innermost parts. [I Cor. 2:11.]" 
Proverbs20:28 Loving-kindness and mercy, truth and faithfulness, preserve the king, and his throne is upheld by [the people's] loyalty." 
Proverbs20:29 The glory of young men is their strength, and the beauty of old men is their gray head [suggesting wisdom and experience]." 
Proverbs20:30 Blows that wound cleanse away evil, and strokes [for correction] reach to the innermost parts." 
Proverbs21:1 THE KING'S heart is in the hand of the Lord, as are the watercourses; He turns it whichever way He wills." 
Proverbs21:2 Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs and tries the hearts. [Prov. 24:12; Luke 16:15.]" 
Proverbs21:3 To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice. [I Sam. 15:22; Prov. 15:8; Isa. 1:11; Hos. 6:6; Mic. 6:7, 8.]" 
Proverbs21:4 Haughtiness of eyes and a proud heart, even the tillage of the wicked or the lamp [of joy] to them [whatever it may be], are sin [in the eyes of God]." 
Proverbs21:5 The thoughts of the [steadily] diligent tend only to plenteousness, but everyone who is impatient and hasty hastens only to want." 
Proverbs21:6 Securing treasures by a lying tongue is a vapor driven to and fro; those who seek them seek death. 
Proverbs21:7 The violence of the wicked shall sweep them away, because they refuse to do justice." 
Proverbs21:8 The way of the guilty is exceedingly crooked, but as for the pure, his work is right and his conduct is straight." 
Proverbs21:9 It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop [on the flat oriental roof, exposed to all kinds of weather] than in a house shared with a nagging, quarrelsome, and faultfinding woman." 
Proverbs21:10 The soul or life of the wicked craves and seeks evil; his neighbor finds no favor in his eyes. [James 2:16.] 
Proverbs21:11 When the scoffer is punished, the fool gets a lesson in being wise; but men of [godly] Wisdom and good sense learn by being instructed." 
Proverbs21:12 The [uncompromisingly] righteous man considers well the house of the wicked,how the wicked are cast down to ruin. 
Proverbs21:13 Whoever stops his ears at the cry of the poor will cry out himself and not be heard. [Matt. 18:30-34; James 2:13.] 
Proverbs21:14 A gift in secret pacifies and turns away anger, and a bribe in the lap, strong wrath." 
Proverbs21:15 When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous (the upright, in right standing with God), but to the evildoers it is dismay, calamity, and ruin." 
Proverbs21:16 A man who wanders out of the way of understanding shall abide in the congregation of the spirits (of the dead). 
Proverbs21:17 He who loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich. 
Proverbs21:18 The wicked become a ransom for the [uncompromisingly] righteous, and the treacherous for the upright [because the wicked themselves fall into the traps and pits they have dug for the good]." 
Proverbs21:19 It is better to dwell in a desert land than with a contentious woman and with vexation. 
Proverbs21:20 There are precious treasures and oil in the dwelling of the wise, but a self-confident and foolish man swallows it up and wastes it." 
Proverbs21:21 He who earnestly seeks after and craves righteousness, mercy, and loving-kindness will find life in addition to righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) and honor. [Prov. 15:9; Matt. 5:6.]" 
Proverbs21:22 A wise man scales the city walls of the mighty and brings down the stronghold in which they trust. 
Proverbs21:23 He who guards his mouth and his tongue keeps himself from troubles. [Prov. 12:13; 13:3; 18:21; James 3:2.] 
Proverbs21:24 The proud and haughty man,Scoffer is his name,deals and acts with overbearing pride. 
Proverbs21:25 The desire of the slothful kills him, for his hands refuse to labor." 
Proverbs21:26 He covets greedily all the day long, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous gives and does not withhold. [II Cor. 9:6-10.]" 
Proverbs21:27 The sacrifice of the wicked is exceedingly disgusting and abhorrent [to the Lord],how much more when he brings it with evil intention? 
Proverbs21:28 A false witness will perish, but the word of a man who hears attentively will endure and go unchallenged." 
Proverbs21:29 A wicked man puts on the bold, unfeeling face [of guilt], but as for the upright, he considers, directs, and establishes his way [with the confidence of integrity]." 
Proverbs21:30 There is no [human] wisdom or understanding or counsel [that can prevail] against the Lord. 
Proverbs21:31 The horse is prepared for the day of battle, but deliverance and victory are of the Lord." 
Proverbs22:1 A GOOD name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold." 
Proverbs22:2 The rich and poor meet together; the Lord is the Maker of them all. [Job 31:15; Prov. 14:31.] 
Proverbs22:2 The rich and poor meet together; the Lord is the Maker of them all. [Job 31:15; Prov. 14:31.] 
Proverbs22:3 A prudent man sees the evil and hides himself, but the simple pass on and are punished [with suffering]." 
Proverbs22:4 The reward of humility and the reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord is riches and honor and life. 
Proverbs22:5 Thorns and snares are in the way of the obstinate and willful; he who guards himself will be far from them. 
Proverbs22:6 Train up a child in the way he should go [and in keeping with his individual gift or bent], and when he is old he will not depart from it. [Eph. 6:4; II Tim. 3:15.]" 
Proverbs22:7 The rich rule over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender." 
Proverbs22:8 He who sows iniquity will reap calamity and futility, and the rod of his wrath [with which he smites others] will fail." 
Proverbs22:9 He who has a bountiful eye shall be blessed, for he gives of his bread to the poor. [II Cor. 9:6-10.]" 
Proverbs22:10 Drive out the scoffer, and contention will go out; yes, strife and abuse will cease." 
Proverbs22:11 He who loves purity and the pure in heart and who is gracious in speech,because of the grace of his lips will he have the king for his friend. 
Proverbs22:12 The eyes of the Lord keep guard over knowledge and him who has it, but He overthrows the words of the treacherous." 
Proverbs22:13 The sluggard says, There is a lion outside! I shall be slain in the streets!" 
Proverbs22:14 The mouth of a loose woman is a deep pit [for ensnaring wild animals]; he with whom the Lord is indignant and who is abhorrent to Him will fall into it. 
Proverbs22:15 Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him." 
Proverbs22:16 He who oppresses the poor to get gain for himself and he who gives to the rich,both will surely come to want. 
Proverbs22:17 Listen (consent and submit) to the words of the wise, and apply your mind to my knowledge;" 
Proverbs22:18 For it will be pleasant if you keep them in your mind [believing them]; your lips will be accustomed to [confessing] them. 
Proverbs22:19 So that your trust (belief, reliance, support, and confidence) may be in the Lord, I have made known these things to you today, even to you." 
Proverbs22:20 Have I not written to you [long ago] excellent things in counsels and knowledge," 
Proverbs22:21 To make you know the certainty of the words of truth, that you may give a true answer to those who sent you? [Luke 1:3, 4.]" 
Proverbs22:22 Rob not the poor [being tempted by their helplessness], neither oppress the afflicted at the gate [where the city court is held], [Exod. 23:6; Job 31:16, 21.]" 
Proverbs22:22 Rob not the poor [being tempted by their helplessness], neither oppress the afflicted at the gate [where the city court is held], [Exod. 23:6; Job 31:16, 21.]" 
Proverbs22:23 For the Lord will plead their cause and deprive of life those who deprive [the poor or afflicted]. [Zech. 7:10; Mal. 3:5.] 
Proverbs22:24 Make no friendships with a man given to anger, and with a wrathful man do not associate," 
Proverbs22:25 Lest you learn his ways and get yourself into a snare. 
Proverbs22:26 Be not one of those who strike hands and pledge themselves, or of those who become security for another's debts." 
Proverbs22:27 If you have nothing with which to pay, why should he take your bed from under you?" 
Proverbs22:28 Remove not the ancient landmark which your fathers have set up. 
Proverbs22:29 Do you see a man diligent and skillful in his business? He will stand before kings; he will not stand before obscure men. 
Proverbs23:1 WHEN YOU sit down to eat with a ruler, consider who and what are before you;" 
Proverbs23:2 For you will put a knife to your throat if you are a man given to desire. 
Proverbs23:3 Be not desirous of his dainties, for it is deceitful food [offered with questionable motives]." 
Proverbs23:4 Weary not yourself to be rich; cease from your own [human] wisdom. [Prov. 28:20; I Tim. 6:9, 10.]" 
Proverbs23:5 Will you set your eyes upon wealth, when [suddenly] it is gone? For riches certainly make themselves wings, like an eagle that flies toward the heavens." 
Proverbs23:6 Eat not the bread of him who has a hard, grudging, and envious eye, neither desire his dainty foods;" 
Proverbs23:7 For as he thinks in his heart, so is he. As one who reckons, he says to you, eat and drink, yet his heart is not with you [but is grudging the cost]." 
Proverbs23:8 The morsel which you have eaten you will vomit up, and your complimentary words will be wasted." 
Proverbs23:9 Speak not in the ears of a [self-confident] fool, for he will despise the [godly] Wisdom of your words. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs23:10 Remove not the ancient landmark and enter not into the fields of the fatherless, [Deut. 19:14; 27:17; Prov. 22:28.]" 
Proverbs23:11 For their Redeemer is mighty; He will plead their cause against you. 
Proverbs23:12 Apply your mind to instruction and correction and your ears to words of knowledge. 
Proverbs23:13 Withhold not discipline from the child; for if you strike and punish him with the [reedlike] rod, he will not die." 
Proverbs23:14 You shall whip him with the rod and deliver his life from Sheol (Hades, the place of the dead)." 
Proverbs23:15 My son, if your heart is wise, my heart will be glad, even mine;" 
Proverbs23:16 Yes, my heart will rejoice when your lips speak right things." 
Proverbs23:17 Let not your heart envy sinners, but continue in the reverent and worshipful fear of the Lord all the day long." 
Proverbs23:18 For surely there is a latter end [a future and a reward], and your hope and expectation shall not be cut off." 
Proverbs23:19 Hear, my son, and be wise, and direct your mind in the way [of the Lord]." 
Proverbs23:20 Do not associate with winebibbers; be not among them nor among gluttonous eaters of meat, [Isa. 5:22; Luke 21:34; Rom. 13:13; Eph. 5:18.]" 
Proverbs23:21 For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty, and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags." 
Proverbs23:22 Hearken to your father, who begot you, and despise not your mother when she is old." 
Proverbs23:23 Buy the truth and sell it not; not only that, but also get discernment and judgment, instruction and understanding." 
Proverbs23:24 The father of the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) shall greatly rejoice, and he who becomes the father of a wise child shall have joy in him." 
Proverbs23:25 Let your father and your mother be glad, and let her who bore you rejoice." 
Proverbs23:26 My son, give me your heart and let your eyes observe and delight in my ways," 
Proverbs23:27 For a harlot is a deep ditch, and a loose woman is a narrow pit." 
Proverbs23:28 She also lies in wait as a robber or as one waits for prey, and she increases the treacherous among men." 
Proverbs23:29 Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaining? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness and dimness of eyes? 
Proverbs23:30 Those who tarry long at the wine, those who go to seek and try mixed wine. [Prov. 20:1; Eph. 5:18.]" 
Proverbs23:31 Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the wineglass, when it goes down smoothly." 
Proverbs23:32 At the last it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder. 
Proverbs23:33 [Under the influence of wine] your eyes will behold strange things [and loose women] and your mind will utter things turned the wrong way [untrue, incorrect, and petulant]." 
Proverbs23:34 Yes, you will be [as unsteady] as he who lies down in the midst of the sea, and [as open to disaster] as he who lies upon the top of a mast." 
Proverbs23:35 You will say, They struck me, but I was not hurt! They beat me [as with a hammer], but I did not feel it! When shall I awake? I will crave and seek more wine again [and escape reality]." 
Proverbs24:1 BE NOT envious of evil men, nor desire to be with them;" 
Proverbs24:2 For their minds plot oppression and devise violence, and their lips talk of causing trouble and vexation." 
Proverbs24:3 Through skillful and godly Wisdom is a house (a life, a home, a family) built, and by understanding it is established [on a sound and good foundation]," 
Proverbs24:4 And by knowledge shall its chambers [of every area] be filled with all precious and pleasant riches. 
Proverbs24:5 A wise man is strong and is better than a strong man, and a man of knowledge increases and strengthens his power; [Prov. 21:22; Eccl. 9:16.]" 
Proverbs24:6 For by wise counsel you can wage your war, and in an abundance of counselors there is victory and safety." 
Proverbs24:7 Wisdom is too high for a fool; he opens not his mouth in the gate [where the city's rulers sit in judgment]. 
Proverbs24:8 He who plans to do evil will be called a mischief-maker. 
Proverbs24:9 The plans of the foolish and the thought of foolishness are sin, and the scoffer is an abomination to men." 
Proverbs24:10 If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small." 
Proverbs24:11 Deliver those who are drawn away to death, and those who totter to the slaughter, hold them back [from their doom]." 
Proverbs24:12 If you [profess ignorance and] say, Behold, we did not know this, does not He Who weighs and ponders the heart perceive and consider it? And He Who guards your life, does not He know it? And shall not He render to [you and] every man according to his works?" 
Proverbs24:13 My son, eat honey, because it is good, and the drippings of the honeycomb are sweet to your taste." 
Proverbs24:14 So shall you know skillful and godly Wisdom to be thus to your life; if you find it, then shall there be a future and a reward, and your hope and expectation shall not be cut off." 
Proverbs24:15 Lie not in wait as a wicked man against the dwelling of the [uncompromisingly] righteous (the upright, in right standing with God); destroy not his resting-place;" 
Proverbs24:16 For a righteous man falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked are overthrown by calamity. [Job 5:19; Ps. 34:19; 37:24; Mic. 7:8.]" 
Proverbs24:16 For a righteous man falls seven times and rises again, but the wicked are overthrown by calamity. [Job 5:19; Ps. 34:19; 37:24; Mic. 7:8.]" 
Proverbs24:17 Rejoice not when your enemy falls, and let not your heart be glad when he stumbles or is overthrown," 
Proverbs24:18 Lest the Lord see it and it be evil in His eyes and displease Him, and He turn away His wrath from him [to expend it upon you, the worse offender]." 
Proverbs24:19 Fret not because of evildoers, neither be envious of the wicked," 
Proverbs24:20 For there shall be no reward for the evil man; the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. 
Proverbs24:21 My son, [reverently] fear the Lord and the king, and do not associate with those who are given to change [of allegiance, and are revolutionary]," 
Proverbs24:22 For their calamity shall rise suddenly, and who knows the punishment and ruin which both [the Lord and the king] will bring upon [the rebellious]?" 
Proverbs24:23 These also are sayings of the wise: To discriminate and show partiality, having respect of persons in judging, is not good." 
Proverbs24:24 He who says to the wicked, You are righteous and innocent,peoples will curse him, nations will defy and abhor him." 
Proverbs24:25 But to those [upright judges] who rebuke the wicked, it will go well with them and they will find delight, and a good blessing will be upon them." 
Proverbs24:26 He kisses the lips [and wins the hearts of men] who give a right answer. 
Proverbs24:27 [Put first things first.] Prepare your work outside and get it ready for yourself in the field; and afterward build your house and establish a home. 
Proverbs24:28 Be not a witness against your neighbor without cause, and deceive not with your lips. [Eph. 4:25.]" 
Proverbs24:29 Say not, I will do to him as he has done to me; I will pay the man back for his deed. [Prov. 20:22; Matt. 5:39, 44; Rom. 12:17, 19.]" 
Proverbs24:30 I went by the field of the lazy man, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;" 
Proverbs24:31 And, behold, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles were covering its face, and its stone wall was broken down." 
Proverbs24:32 Then I beheld and considered it well; I looked and received instruction. 
Proverbs24:33 Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep," 
Proverbs24:34 So shall your poverty come as a robber, and your want as an armed man." 
Proverbs25:1 THESE ARE also the proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied: [I Kings 4:32.]" 
Proverbs25:2 It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a thing. [Deut. 29:29; Rom. 11:33.]" 
Proverbs25:3 As the heavens for height and the earth for depth, so the hearts and minds of kings are unsearchable." 
Proverbs25:4 Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth [the material for] a vessel for the silversmith [to work up]. [II Tim. 2:21.]" 
Proverbs25:5 Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Proverbs25:6 Be not forward (self-assertive and boastfully ambitious) in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men;" 
Proverbs25:7 For better it is that it should be said to you, Come up here, than that you should be put lower in the presence of the prince, whose eyes have seen you. [Luke 14:8-10.]" 
Proverbs25:8 Rush not forth soon to quarrel [before magistrates or elsewhere], lest you know not what to do in the end when your neighbor has put you to shame. [Prov. 17:14; Matt. 5:25.]" 
Proverbs25:9 Argue your cause with your neighbor himself; discover not and disclose not another's secret, [Matt. 18:15.]" 
Proverbs25:10 Lest he who hears you revile you and bring shame upon you and your ill repute have no end. 
Proverbs25:11 A word fitly spoken and in due season is like apples of gold in settings of silver. [Prov. 15:23; Isa. 50:4.] 
Proverbs25:12 Like an earring or nose ring of gold or an ornament of fine gold is a wise reprover to an ear that listens and obeys. 
Proverbs25:13 Like the cold of snow [brought from the mountains] in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him; for he refreshes the life of his masters." 
Proverbs25:14 Whoever falsely boasts of gifts [he does not give] is like clouds and wind without rain. [Jude 12.] 
Proverbs25:15 By long forbearance and calmness of spirit a judge or ruler is persuaded, and soft speech breaks down the most bonelike resistance. [Gen. 32:4; I Sam. 25:24; Prov. 15:1; 16:14.]" 
Proverbs25:16 Have you found [pleasure sweet like] honey? Eat only as much as is sufficient for you, lest, being filled with it, you vomit it." 
Proverbs25:17 Let your foot seldom be in your neighbor's house, lest he become tired of you and hate you." 
Proverbs25:18 A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a heavy sledgehammer and a sword and a sharp arrow. 
Proverbs25:19 Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth or a foot out of joint. 
Proverbs25:20 He who sings songs to a heavy heart is like him who lays off a garment in cold weather and like vinegar upon soda. [Dan. 6:18; Rom. 12:15.] 
Proverbs25:21 If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink; [Matt. 5:44; Rom. 12:20.]" 
Proverbs25:22 For in doing so, you will heap coals of fire upon his head, and the Lord will reward you." 
Proverbs25:23 The north wind brings forth rain; so does a backbiting tongue bring forth an angry countenance. 
Proverbs25:24 It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop than to share a house with a disagreeing, quarrelsome, and scolding woman. [Prov. 21:9.]" 
Proverbs25:25 Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far [home] country." 
Proverbs25:26 Like a muddied fountain and a polluted spring is a righteous man who yields, falls down, and compromises his integrity before the wicked." 
Proverbs25:27 It is not good to eat much honey; so for men to seek glory, their own glory, causes suffering and is not glory." 
Proverbs25:28 He who has no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. [Prov. 16:32.] 
Proverbs26:1 LIKE SNOW in summer and like rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a [self-confident] fool. [Isa. 32:6.]" 
Proverbs26:2 Like the sparrow in her wandering, like the swallow in her flying, so the causeless curse does not alight. [Num. 23:8.]" 
Proverbs26:3 A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a [straight, slender] rod for the backs of [self-confident] fools." 
Proverbs26:4 Answer not a [self-confident] fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him." 
Proverbs26:5 Answer a [self-confident] fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes and conceit. [Matt. 16:1-4; 21:24-27.]" 
Proverbs26:6 He who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off the feet [of satisfactory delivery] and drinks the damage. [Prov. 13:17.] 
Proverbs26:7 Like the legs of a lame man which hang loose, so is a parable in the mouth of a fool." 
Proverbs26:8 Like he who binds a stone in a sling, so is he who gives honor to a [self-confident] fool." 
Proverbs26:9 Like a thorn that goes [without being felt] into the hand of a drunken man, so is a proverb in the mouth of a [self-confident] fool." 
Proverbs26:10 [But] like an archer who wounds all, so is he who hires a fool or chance passers-by." 
Proverbs26:11 As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool returns to his folly." 
Proverbs26:12 Do you see a man wise in his own eyes and conceit? There is more hope for a [self-confident] fool than for him. [Prov. 29:20; Luke 18:11; Rom. 12:16; Rev. 3:17.] 
Proverbs26:13 The sluggard says, There is a lion in the way! A lion is in the streets! [Prov. 22:13.]" 
Proverbs26:14 As the door turns on its hinges, so does the lazy man [move not from his place] upon his bed." 
Proverbs26:15 The slothful and self-indulgent buries his hand in his bosom; it distresses and wearies him to bring it again to his mouth. [Prov. 19:24.] 
Proverbs26:16 The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes and conceit than seven men who can render a reason and answer discreetly. 
Proverbs26:17 He who, passing by, stops to meddle with strife that is none of his business is like one who takes a dog by the ears." 
Proverbs26:18 Like a madman who casts firebrands, arrows, and death," 
Proverbs26:19 So is the man who deceives his neighbor and then says, Was I not joking? [Eph. 5:4.]" 
Proverbs26:20 For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, contention ceases." 
Proverbs26:21 As coals are to hot embers and as wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man to inflame strife. [Prov. 15:18; 29:22.]" 
Proverbs26:22 The words of a whisperer or slanderer are like dainty morsels or words of sport [to some, but to others are like deadly wounds]; and they go down into the innermost parts of the body [or of the victim's nature]." 
Proverbs26:23 Burning lips [uttering insincere words of love] and a wicked heart are like an earthen vessel covered with the scum thrown off from molten silver [making it appear to be solid silver]. 
Proverbs26:24 He who hates pretends with his lips, but stores up deceit within himself." 
Proverbs26:25 When he speaks kindly, do not trust him, for seven abominations are in his heart." 
Proverbs26:26 Though his hatred covers itself with guile, his wickedness shall be shown openly before the assembly." 
Proverbs26:27 Whoever digs a pit [for another man's feet] shall fall into it himself, and he who rolls a stone [up a height to do mischief], it will return upon him. [Ps. 7:15, 16; 9:15; 10:2; 57:6; Prov. 28:10; Eccl. 10:8.]" 
Proverbs26:28 A lying tongue hates those it wounds and crushes, and a flattering mouth works ruin." 
Proverbs27:1 DO NOT boast of [yourself and] tomorrow, for you know not what a day may bring forth. [Luke 12:19, 20; James 4:13.]" 
Proverbs27:2 Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips." 
Proverbs27:3 Stone is heavy and sand weighty, but a fool's [unreasoning] wrath is heavier and more intolerable than both of them." 
Proverbs27:4 Wrath is cruel and anger is an overwhelming flood, but who is able to stand before jealousy?" 
Proverbs27:5 Open rebuke is better than love that is hidden. [Prov. 28:23; Gal. 2:14.] 
Proverbs27:6 Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are lavish and deceitful." 
Proverbs27:7 He who is satiated [with sensual pleasures] loathes and treads underfoot a honeycomb, but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet." 
Proverbs27:8 Like a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a man who strays from his home." 
Proverbs27:9 Oil and perfume rejoice the heart; so does the sweetness of a friend's counsel that comes from the heart. 
Proverbs27:10 Your own friend and your father's friend, forsake them not; neither go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near [in spirit] than a brother who is far off [in heart]." 
Proverbs27:11 My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me [as having failed in my parental duty]. [Prov. 10:1; 23:15, 24.]" 
Proverbs27:12 A prudent man sees the evil and hides himself, but the simple pass on and are punished [with suffering]." 
Proverbs27:13 [The judge tells the creditor] Take the garment of one who is security for a stranger; and hold him in pledge when he is security for foreigners. [Prov. 20:16.] 
Proverbs27:14 The flatterer who loudly praises and glorifies his neighbor, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted as cursing him [for he will be suspected of sinister purposes]." 
Proverbs27:15 A continual dripping on a day of violent showers and a contentious woman are alike; [Prov. 19:13.] 
Proverbs27:16 Whoever attempts to restrain [a contentious woman] might as well try to stop the wind,his right hand encounters oil [and she slips through his fingers]. 
Proverbs27:17 Iron sharpens iron; so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend [to show rage or worthy purpose]. 
Proverbs27:18 Whoever tends the fig tree shall eat its fruit; so he who patiently and faithfully guards and heeds his master shall be honored. [I Cor. 9:7, 13.]" 
Proverbs27:19 As in water face answers to and reflects face, so the heart of man to man." 
Proverbs27:20 Sheol (the place of the dead) and Abaddon (the place of destruction) are never satisfied; so [the lust of] the eyes of man is never satisfied. [Prov. 30:16; Hab. 2:5.] 
Proverbs27:21 As the refining pot for silver and the furnace for gold [bring forth all the impurities of the metal], so let a man be in his trial of praise [ridding himself of all that is base or insincere; for a man is judged by what he praises and of what he boasts]." 
Proverbs27:22 Even though like grain you should pound a fool in a mortar with a pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him." 
Proverbs27:23 Be diligent to know the state of your flocks, and look well to your herds;" 
Proverbs27:24 For riches are not forever; does a crown endure to all generations? 
Proverbs27:25 When the hay is gone, the tender grass shows itself, and herbs of the mountain are gathered in," 
Proverbs27:26 The lambs will be for your clothing, and the goats [will furnish you] the price of a field." 
Proverbs27:27 And there will be goats' milk enough for your food, for the food of your household, and for the maintenance of your maids." 
Proverbs28:1 THE WICKED flee when no man pursues them, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous are bold as a lion. [Lev. 26:17, 36; Ps. 53:5.]" 
Proverbs28:2 When a land transgresses, it has many rulers, but when the ruler is a man of discernment, understanding, and knowledge, its stability will long continue." 
Proverbs28:3 A poor man who oppresses the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaves no food [plundering them of their last morsels]. [Matt. 18:28.] 
Proverbs28:4 Those who forsake the law [of God and man] praise the wicked, but those who keep the law [of God and man] contend with them. [Prov. 29:18.]" 
Proverbs28:5 Evil men do not understand justice, but they who crave and seek the Lord understand it fully. [John 7:17; I Cor. 2:15; I John 2:20, 27.]" 
Proverbs28:6 Better is the poor man who walks in his integrity than he who willfully goes in double and wrong ways, though he is rich." 
Proverbs28:7 Whoever keeps the law [of God and man] is a wise son, but he who is a companion of gluttons and the carousing, self-indulgent, and extravagant shames his father." 
Proverbs28:8 He who by charging excessive interest and who by unjust efforts to get gain increases his material possession gathers it for him [to spend] who is kind and generous to the poor. [Job 27:16, 17; Prov. 13:22; Eccl. 2:26.]" 
Proverbs28:8 He who by charging excessive interest and who by unjust efforts to get gain increases his material possession gathers it for him [to spend] who is kind and generous to the poor. [Job 27:16, 17; Prov. 13:22; Eccl. 2:26.]" 
Proverbs28:9 He who turns away his ear from hearing the law [of God and man], even his prayer is an abomination, hateful and revolting [to God]. [Ps. 66:18; 109:7; Prov. 15:8; Zech. 7:11.]" 
Proverbs28:10 Whoever leads the upright astray into an evil way, he will himself fall into his own pit, but the blameless will have a goodly inheritance." 
Proverbs28:11 The rich man is wise in his own eyes and conceit, but the poor man who has understanding will find him out." 
Proverbs28:12 When the [uncompromisingly] righteous triumph, there is great glory and celebration; but when the wicked rise [to power], men hide themselves." 
Proverbs28:13 He who covers his transgressions will not prosper, but whoever confesses and forsakes his sins will obtain mercy. [Ps. 32:3, 5; I John 1:8-10.]" 
Proverbs28:14 Blessed (happy, fortunate, and to be envied) is the man who reverently and worshipfully fears [the Lord] at all times [regardless of circumstances], but he who hardens his heart will fall into calamity." 
Proverbs28:15 Like a roaring lion or a ravenous and charging bear is a wicked ruler over a poor people. 
Proverbs28:16 A ruler who lacks understanding is [like a wicked one] a great oppressor, but he who hates covetousness and unjust gain shall prolong his days." 
Proverbs28:17 If a man willfully sheds the blood of a person [and keeps the guilt of murder upon his conscience], he is fleeing to the pit (the grave) and hastening to his own destruction; let no man stop him!" 
Proverbs28:18 He who walks uprightly shall be safe, but he who willfully goes in double and wrong ways shall fall in one of them." 
Proverbs28:19 He who cultivates his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless people and pursuits will have poverty enough." 
Proverbs28:20 A faithful man shall abound with blessings, but he who makes haste to be rich [at any cost] shall not go unpunished. [Prov. 13:11; 20:21; 23:4; I Tim. 6:9.]" 
Proverbs28:21 To have respect of persons and to show partiality is not good, neither is it good that man should transgress for a piece of bread." 
Proverbs28:22 He who has an evil and covetous eye hastens to be rich and knows not that want will come upon him. [Prov. 21:5; 28:20.] 
Proverbs28:23 He who rebukes a man shall afterward find more favor than he who flatters with the tongue. 
Proverbs28:24 Whoever robs his father or his mother and says, This is no sin,he is in the same class as [an open, lawless robber and] a destroyer." 
Proverbs28:25 He who is of a greedy spirit stirs up strife, but he who puts his trust in the Lord shall be enriched and blessed." 
Proverbs28:26 He who leans on, trusts in, and is confident of his own mind and heart is a [self-confident] fool, but he who walks in skillful and godly Wisdom shall be delivered. [James 1:5.]" 
Proverbs28:27 He who gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes [from their want] will have many a curse. [Deut. 15:7; Prov. 19:17; 22:9.]" 
Proverbs28:28 When the wicked rise [to power], men hide themselves; but when they perish, the [consistently] righteous increase and become many. [Prov. 28:12.]" 
Proverbs29:1 HE WHO, being often reproved, hardens his neck shall suddenly be destroyed,and that without remedy." 
Proverbs29:2 When the [uncompromisingly] righteous are in authority, the people rejoice; but when the wicked man rules, the people groan and sigh." 
Proverbs29:3 Whoever loves skillful and godly Wisdom rejoices his father, but he who associates with harlots wastes his substance." 
Proverbs29:4 The king by justice establishes the land, but he who exacts gifts and tribute overthrows it." 
Proverbs29:5 A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his own feet. 
Proverbs29:6 In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous man sings and rejoices." 
Proverbs29:7 The [consistently] righteous man knows and cares for the rights of the poor, but the wicked man has no interest in such knowledge. [Job 29:16; 31:13; Ps. 41:1.]" 
Proverbs29:7 The [consistently] righteous man knows and cares for the rights of the poor, but the wicked man has no interest in such knowledge. [Job 29:16; 31:13; Ps. 41:1.]" 
Proverbs29:8 Scoffers set a city afire [inflaming the minds of the people], but wise men turn away wrath." 
Proverbs29:9 If a wise man has an argument with a foolish man, the fool only rages or laughs, and there is no rest." 
Proverbs29:10 The bloodthirsty hate the blameless man, but the upright care for and seek [to save] his life. [Gen. 4:5, 8; I John 3:12.]" 
Proverbs29:11 A [self-confident] fool utters all his anger, but a wise man holds it back and stills it." 
Proverbs29:12 If a ruler listens to falsehood, all his officials will become wicked." 
Proverbs29:13 The poor man and the oppressor meet together,the Lord gives light to the eyes of both. 
Proverbs29:14 The king who faithfully judges the poor, his throne shall be established continuously." 
Proverbs29:15 The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left undisciplined brings his mother to shame." 
Proverbs29:16 When the wicked are in authority, transgression increases, but the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall see the fall of the wicked." 
Proverbs29:17 Correct your son, and he will give you rest; yes, he will give delight to your heart." 
Proverbs29:18 Where there is no vision [no redemptive revelation of God], the people perish; but he who keeps the law [of God, which includes that of man],blessed (happy, fortunate, and enviable) is he. [I Sam. 3:1; Amos 8:11, 12.]" 
Proverbs29:18 Where there is no vision [no redemptive revelation of God], the people perish; but he who keeps the law [of God, which includes that of man],blessed (happy, fortunate, and enviable) is he. [I Sam. 3:1; Amos 8:11, 12.]" 
Proverbs29:19 A servant will not be corrected by words alone; for though he understands, he will not answer [the master who mistreats him]." 
Proverbs29:20 Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a [self-confident] fool than for him. 
Proverbs29:21 He who pampers his servant from childhood will have him expecting the rights of a son afterward. 
Proverbs29:22 A man of wrath stirs up strife, and a man given to anger commits and causes much transgression." 
Proverbs29:23 A man's pride will bring him low, but he who is of a humble spirit will obtain honor. [Prov. 15:33; 18:12; Isa. 66:2; Dan. 4:30; Matt. 23:12; James 4:6, 10; I Pet. 5:5.]" 
Proverbs29:24 Whoever is partner with a thief hates his own life; he falls under the curse [pronounced upon him who knows who the thief is] but discloses nothing. 
Proverbs29:25 The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever leans on, trusts in, and puts his confidence in the Lord is safe and set on high." 
Proverbs29:26 Many crave and seek the ruler's favor, but the wise man [waits] for justice from the Lord." 
Proverbs29:27 An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, and he who is upright in the way [of the Lord] is an abomination to the wicked." 
Proverbs30:1 THE WORDS of Agur son of Jakeh of Massa: The man says to Ithiel, to Ithiel and to Ucal:" 
Proverbs30:2 Surely I am too brutish and stupid to be called a man, and I have not the understanding of a man [for all my secular learning is as nothing]." 
Proverbs30:3 I have not learned skillful and godly Wisdom, that I should have the knowledge or burden of the Holy One." 
Proverbs30:4 Who has ascended into heaven and descended? Who has gathered the wind in His fists? Who has bound the waters in His garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is His name, and what is His Son's name, if you know? [John 3:13; Rev. 19:12.]" 
Proverbs30:5 Every word of God is tried and purified; He is a shield to those who trust and take refuge in Him. [Ps. 18:30; 84:11; 115:9-11.] 
Proverbs30:6 Add not to His words, lest He reprove you, and you be found a liar." 
Proverbs30:7 Two things have I asked of You [O Lord]; deny them not to me before I die: 
Proverbs30:8 Remove far from me falsehood and lies; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me," 
Proverbs30:9 Lest I be full and deny You and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal, and so profane the name of my God. [Deut. 8:12, 14, 17; Neh. 9:25, 26; Job 31:24; Hos. 13:6.]" 
Proverbs30:9 Lest I be full and deny You and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal, and so profane the name of my God. [Deut. 8:12, 14, 17; Neh. 9:25, 26; Job 31:24; Hos. 13:6.]" 
Proverbs30:10 Do not accuse and hurt a servant before his master, lest he curse you, and you be held guilty [of adding to the burdens of the lowly]." 
Proverbs30:11 There is a class of people who curse their fathers and do not bless their mothers. 
Proverbs30:12 There is a class of people who are pure in their own eyes, and yet are not washed from their own filth." 
Proverbs30:13 There is a class of people,oh, how lofty are their eyes and their raised eyelids!" 
Proverbs30:14 There is a class of people whose teeth are as swords and whose fangs as knives, to devour the poor from the earth and the needy from among men." 
Proverbs30:15 The leech has two daughters, crying, Give, give! There are three things that are never satisfied, yes, four that do not say, It is enough:" 
Proverbs30:16 Sheol (the place of the dead), the barren womb, the earth that is not satisfied with water, and the fire that says not, It is enough." 
Proverbs30:17 The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother, the ravens of the valley will pick it out, and the young vultures will devour it. [Lev. 20:9; Prov. 20:20; 23:22.]" 
Proverbs30:18 There are three things which are too wonderful for me, yes, four which I do not understand:" 
Proverbs30:19 The way of an eagle in the air, the way of a serpent upon a rock, the way of a ship in the midst of the sea, and the way of a man with a maid." 
Proverbs30:20 This is the way of an adulterous woman: she eats and wipes her mouth and says, I have done no wickedness." 
Proverbs30:21 Under three things the earth is disquieted, and under four it cannot bear up:" 
Proverbs30:22 Under a servant when he reigns, a [empty-headed] fool when he is filled with food," 
Proverbs30:23 An unloved and repugnant woman when she is married, and a maidservant when she supplants her mistress." 
Proverbs30:24 There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise:" 
Proverbs30:25 The ants are a people not strong, yet they lay up their food in the summer; [Prov. 6:6.]" 
Proverbs30:26 The conies are but a feeble folk, yet they make their houses in the rocks; [Ps. 104:18.]" 
Proverbs30:27 The locusts have no king, yet they go forth all of them by bands;" 
Proverbs30:28 The lizard you can seize with your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces." 
Proverbs30:29 There are three things which are stately in step, yes, four which are stately in their stride:" 
Proverbs30:30 The lion, which is mightiest among beasts and turns not back before any;" 
Proverbs30:31 The war horse [well-knit in the loins], the male goat also, and the king [when his army is with him and] against whom there is no uprising." 
Proverbs30:32 If you have done foolishly in exalting yourself, or if you have thought evil, lay your hand upon your mouth. [Job 21:5; 40:4.]" 
Proverbs30:32 If you have done foolishly in exalting yourself, or if you have thought evil, lay your hand upon your mouth. [Job 21:5; 40:4.]" 
Proverbs30:33 Surely the churning of milk brings forth butter, and the wringing of the nose brings forth blood; so the forcing of wrath brings forth strife." 
Proverbs31:1 THE WORDS of Lemuel king of Massa, which his mother taught him:" 
Proverbs31:2 What, my son? What, son of my womb? What [shall I advise you], son of my vows and dedication to God?" 
Proverbs31:3 Give not your strength to [loose] women, nor your ways to those who and that which ruin and destroy kings." 
Proverbs31:4 It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to desire strong drink, [Eccl. 10:17; Hos. 4:11.]" 
Proverbs31:5 Lest they drink and forget the law and what it decrees, and pervert the justice due any of the afflicted." 
Proverbs31:6 Give strong drink [as medicine] to him who is ready to pass away, and wine to him in bitter distress of heart." 
Proverbs31:7 Let him drink and forget his poverty and [seriously] remember his want and misery no more. 
Proverbs31:8 Open your mouth for the dumb [those unable to speak for themselves], for the rights of all who are left desolate and defenseless; [I Sam. 19:4; Esth. 4:16; Job 29:15, 16.]" 
Proverbs31:8 Open your mouth for the dumb [those unable to speak for themselves], for the rights of all who are left desolate and defenseless; [I Sam. 19:4; Esth. 4:16; Job 29:15, 16.]" 
Proverbs31:9 Open your mouth, judge righteously, and administer justice for the poor and needy. [Lev. 19:15; Deut. 1:16; Job 29:12; Isa. 1:17; Jer. 22:16.]" 
Proverbs31:9 Open your mouth, judge righteously, and administer justice for the poor and needy. [Lev. 19:15; Deut. 1:16; Job 29:12; Isa. 1:17; Jer. 22:16.]" 
Proverbs31:10 A capable, intelligent, and virtuous woman,who is he who can find her? She is far more precious than jewels and her value is far above rubies or pearls. [Prov. 12:4; 18:22; 19:14.]" 
Proverbs31:11 The heart of her husband trusts in her confidently and relies on and believes in her securely, so that he has no lack of [honest] gain or need of [dishonest] spoil." 
Proverbs31:12 She comforts, encourages, and does him only good as long as there is life within her." 
Proverbs31:13 She seeks out wool and flax and works with willing hands [to develop it]. 
Proverbs31:14 She is like the merchant ships loaded with foodstuffs; she brings her household's food from a far [country]. 
Proverbs31:15 She rises while it is yet night and gets [spiritual] food for her household and assigns her maids their tasks. [Job 23:12.] 
Proverbs31:15 She rises while it is yet night and gets [spiritual] food for her household and assigns her maids their tasks. [Job 23:12.] 
Proverbs31:16 She considers a [new] field before she buys or accepts it [expanding prudently and not courting neglect of her present duties by assuming other duties]; with her savings [of time and strength] she plants fruitful vines in her vineyard. [S. of Sol. 8:12.] 
Proverbs31:17 She girds herself with strength [spiritual, mental, and physical fitness for her God-given task] and makes her arms strong and firm." 
Proverbs31:18 She tastes and sees that her gain from work [with and for God] is good; her lamp goes not out, but it burns on continually through the night [of trouble, privation, or sorrow, warning away fear, doubt, and distrust]." 
Proverbs31:19 She lays her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff." 
Proverbs31:20 She opens her hand to the poor, yes, she reaches out her filled hands to the needy [whether in body, mind, or spirit]." 
Proverbs31:21 She fears not the snow for her family, for all her household are doubly clothed in scarlet. [Josh. 2:18, 19; Heb. 9:19-22.]" 
Proverbs31:22 She makes for herself coverlets, cushions, and rugs of tapestry. Her clothing is of linen, pure and fine, and of purple [such as that of which the clothing of the priests and the hallowed cloths of the temple were made]. [Isa. 61:10; I Tim. 2:9; Rev. 3:5; 19:8, 14.]" 
Proverbs31:23 Her husband is known in the [city's] gates, when he sits among the elders of the land. [Prov. 12:4.]" 
Proverbs31:24 She makes fine linen garments and leads others to buy them; she delivers to the merchants girdles [or sashes that free one up for service]. 
Proverbs31:25 Strength and dignity are her clothing and her position is strong and secure; she rejoices over the future [the latter day or time to come, knowing that she and her family are in readiness for it]!" 
Proverbs31:26 She opens her mouth in skillful and godly Wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness [giving counsel and instruction]." 
Proverbs31:27 She looks well to how things go in her household, and the bread of idleness (gossip, discontent, and self-pity) she will not eat. [I Tim. 5:14; Tit. 2:5.]" 
Proverbs31:28 Her children rise up and call her blessed (happy, fortunate, and to be envied); and her husband boasts of and praises her, [saying]," 
Proverbs31:29 Many daughters have done virtuously, nobly, and well [with the strength of character that is steadfast in goodness], but you excel them all." 
Proverbs31:30 Charm and grace are deceptive, and beauty is vain [because it is not lasting], but a woman who reverently and worshipfully fears the Lord, she shall be praised!" 
Proverbs31:31 Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates [of the city]! [Phil. 4:8.]" 
Ecclesiastes1:1 THE WORDS of the Preacher, the son of David and king in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:2 Vapor of vapors and futility of futilities, says the Preacher. Vapor of vapors and futility of futilities! All is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and vainglory). [Rom. 8:20.]" 
Ecclesiastes1:3 What profit does man have left from all his toil at which he toils under the sun? [Is life worth living?] 
Ecclesiastes1:4 One generation goes and another generation comes, but the earth remains forever. [Ps. 119:90.]" 
Ecclesiastes1:5 The sun also rises and the sun goes down, and hastens to the place where it rises." 
Ecclesiastes1:6 The wind goes to the south and circles about to the north; it circles and circles about continually, and on its circuit the wind returns again. [John 3:8.]" 
Ecclesiastes1:7 All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place from which the rivers come, to there and from there they return again." 
Ecclesiastes1:8 All things are weary with toil and all words are feeble; man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. [Prov. 27:20.]" 
Ecclesiastes1:9 The thing that has been,it is what will be again, and that which has been done is that which will be done again; and there is nothing new under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes1:10 Is there a thing of which it may be said, See, this is new? It has already been, in the vast ages of time [recorded or unrecorded] which were before us." 
Ecclesiastes1:11 There is no remembrance of former happenings or men, neither will there be any remembrance of happenings of generations that are to come by those who are to come after them." 
Ecclesiastes1:12 I, the Preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:13 And I applied myself by heart and mind to seek and search out by [human] wisdom all human activity under heaven. It is a miserable business which God has given to the sons of man with which to busy themselves. 
Ecclesiastes1:14 I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity, a striving after the wind and a feeding on wind." 
Ecclesiastes1:15 What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is defective and lacking cannot be counted." 
Ecclesiastes1:16 I entered into counsel with my own mind, saying, Behold, I have acquired great [human] wisdom, yes, more than all who have been over Jerusalem before me; and my mind has had great experience of [moral] wisdom and [scientific] knowledge." 
Ecclesiastes1:17 And I gave my mind to know [practical] wisdom and to discern [the character of] madness and folly [in which men seem to find satisfaction]; I perceived that this also is a searching after wind and a feeding on it. [I Thess. 5:21.] 
Ecclesiastes1:18 For in much [human] wisdom is much vexation, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow." 
Ecclesiastes2:1 I SAID in my mind, Come now, I will prove you with mirth and test you with pleasure; so have a good time [enjoy pleasure]. But this also was vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)! [Luke 12:19, 20.]" 
Ecclesiastes2:2 I said of laughter, It is mad, and of pleasure, What does it accomplish?" 
Ecclesiastes2:3 I searched in my mind how to cheer my body with wine,yet at the same time having my mind hold its course and guide me with [human] wisdom,and how to lay hold of folly, till I might see what was good for the sons of men to do under heaven all the days of their lives." 
Ecclesiastes2:4 I made great works; I built myself houses, I planted vineyards." 
Ecclesiastes2:5 I made for myself gardens and orchards and I planted in them all kinds of fruit trees. 
Ecclesiastes2:6 I made for myself pools of water from which to water the forest and make the trees bud. 
Ecclesiastes2:7 I bought menservants and maidservants and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions of herds and flocks, more than any who had been before me in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes2:8 I also gathered for myself silver and gold and the treasure of kings and of the provinces. I got for myself men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men,concubines very many. [I Kings 9:28; 10:10, 14, 21.]" 
Ecclesiastes2:9 So I became great and increased more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. Also my wisdom remained with me and stood by me. 
Ecclesiastes2:10 And whatever my eyes desired I kept not from them; I withheld not my heart from any pleasure, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my portion and reward for all my toil." 
Ecclesiastes2:11 Then I looked on all that my hands had done and the labor I had spent in doing it, and behold, all was vanity and a striving after the wind and a feeding on it, and there was no profit under the sun. [Matt. 16:26.]" 
Ecclesiastes2:12 So I turned to consider [human] wisdom and madness and folly; for what can the man do who succeeds the king? Nothing but what has been done already. 
Ecclesiastes2:13 Then I saw that even [human] wisdom [that brings sorrow] is better than [the pleasures of] folly as far as light is better than darkness. 
Ecclesiastes2:14 The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness; and yet I perceived that [in the end] one event happens to them both. [Prov. 17:24.]" 
Ecclesiastes2:15 Then said I in my heart, As it happens to the fool, so it will happen even to me. And of what use is it then for me to be more wise? Then I said in my heart, This also is vanity (emptiness, vainglory, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes2:16 For of the wise man, the same as of the fool, there is no permanent remembrance, since in the days to come all will be long forgotten. And how does the wise man die? Even as the fool!" 
Ecclesiastes2:17 So I hated life, because what is done under the sun was grievous to me; for all is vanity and a striving after the wind and a feeding on it." 
Ecclesiastes2:18 And I hated all my labor in which I had toiled under the sun, seeing that I must leave it to the man who will succeed me. [Ps. 49:10.]" 
Ecclesiastes2:19 And who knows whether he will be a wise man or a fool? Yet he will have dominion over all my labor in which I have toiled and in which I have shown myself wise under the sun. This is also vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes2:20 So I turned around and gave my heart up to despair over all the labor of my efforts under the sun. 
Ecclesiastes2:21 For here is a man whose labor is with wisdom and knowledge and skill; yet to a man who has not toiled for it he must leave it all as his portion. This also is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility) and a great evil!" 
Ecclesiastes2:22 For what has a man left from all his labor and from the striving and vexation of his heart in which he has toiled under the sun? 
Ecclesiastes2:23 For all his days are but pain and sorrow, and his work is a vexation and grief; his mind takes no rest even at night. This is also vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes2:24 There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink and make himself enjoy good in his labor. Even this, I have seen, is from the hand of God." 
Ecclesiastes2:25 For who can eat or who can have enjoyment any more than I can,apart from Him? 
Ecclesiastes2:26 For to the person who pleases Him God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy; but to the sinner He gives the work of gathering and heaping up, that he may give to one who pleases God. This also is vanity and a striving after the wind and a feeding on it." 
Ecclesiastes3:1 TO EVERYTHING there is a season, and a time for every matter or purpose under heaven:" 
Ecclesiastes3:2 A time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to pluck up what is planted, [Heb. 9:27.]" 
Ecclesiastes3:3 A time to kill and a time to heal, a time to break down and a time to build up," 
Ecclesiastes3:4 A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance," 
Ecclesiastes3:5 A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing," 
Ecclesiastes3:6 A time to get and a time to lose, a time to keep and a time to cast away," 
Ecclesiastes3:7 A time to rend and a time to sew, a time to keep silence and a time to speak, [Amos 5:13.]" 
Ecclesiastes3:7 A time to rend and a time to sew, a time to keep silence and a time to speak, [Amos 5:13.]" 
Ecclesiastes3:8 A time to love and a time to hate, a time for war and a time for peace. [Luke 14:26.]" 
Ecclesiastes3:9 What profit remains for the worker from his toil? 
Ecclesiastes3:10 I have seen the painful labor and exertion and miserable business which God has given to the sons of men with which to exercise and busy themselves. 
Ecclesiastes3:11 He has made everything beautiful in its time. He also has planted eternity in men's hearts and minds [a divinely implanted sense of a purpose working through the ages which nothing under the sun but God alone can satisfy], yet so that men cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end." 
Ecclesiastes3:12 I know that there is nothing better for them than to be glad and to get and do good as long as they live; 
Ecclesiastes3:13 And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor,it is the gift of God. 
Ecclesiastes3:14 I know that whatever God does, it endures forever; nothing can be added to it nor anything taken from it. And God does it so that men will [reverently] fear Him [revere and worship Him, knowing that He is]. [Ps. 19:9; James 1:17.]" 
Ecclesiastes3:15 That which is now already has been, and that which is to be already has been; and God seeks that which has passed by [so that history repeats itself]." 
Ecclesiastes3:16 Moreover, I saw under the sun that in the place of justice there was wickedness, and that in the place of righteousness wickedness was there also." 
Ecclesiastes3:17 I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time [appointed] for every matter and purpose and for every work." 
Ecclesiastes3:18 I said in my heart regarding the subject of the sons of men, God is trying (separating and sifting) them, that they may see that by themselves [under the sun, without God] they are but like beasts." 
Ecclesiastes3:19 For that which befalls the sons of men befalls beasts; even [in the end] one thing befalls them both. As the one dies, so dies the other. Yes, they all have one breath and spirit, so that a man has no preeminence over a beast; for all is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes3:20 All go to one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again." 
Ecclesiastes3:21 Who knows the spirit of man, whether it goes upward, and the spirit of the beast, whether it goes downward to the earth?" 
Ecclesiastes3:22 So I saw that there is nothing better than that a man should rejoice in his own works, for that is his portion. For who shall bring him back to see what will happen after he is gone?" 
Ecclesiastes4:1 THEN I returned and considered all the oppressions that are practiced under the sun: And I beheld the tears of the oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors was power, but they [too] had no comforter." 
Ecclesiastes4:2 So I praised and thought more fortunate those who have been long dead than the living, who are still alive." 
Ecclesiastes4:3 But better than them both [I thought] is he who has not yet been born, who has not seen the evil deeds that are done under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes4:4 Then I saw that all painful effort in labor and all skill in work comes from man's rivalry with his neighbor. This is also vanity, a vain striving after the wind and a feeding on it." 
Ecclesiastes4:5 The fool folds his hands together and eats his own flesh [destroying himself by indolence]. 
Ecclesiastes4:6 Better is a handful with quietness than both hands full with painful effort, a vain striving after the wind and a feeding on it." 
Ecclesiastes4:7 Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun [in one of its peculiar forms]." 
Ecclesiastes4:8 Here is one alone,no one with him; he neither has child nor brother. Yet there is no end to all his labor, neither is his eye satisfied with riches, neither does he ask, For whom do I labor and deprive myself of good? This is also vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility); yes, it is a painful effort and an unhappy business. [Prov. 27:20; I John 2:16.]" 
Ecclesiastes4:9 Two are better than one, because they have a good [more satisfying] reward for their labor;" 
Ecclesiastes4:10 For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up!" 
Ecclesiastes4:11 Again, if two lie down together, then they have warmth; but how can one be warm alone?" 
Ecclesiastes4:12 And though a man might prevail against him who is alone, two will withstand him. A threefold cord is not quickly broken." 
Ecclesiastes4:13 Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who no longer knows how to receive counsel (friendly reproof and warning), 
Ecclesiastes4:14 Even though [the youth] comes out of prison to reign, while the other, born a king, becomes needy." 
Ecclesiastes4:15 I saw all the living who walk under the sun with the youth who was to stand up in the king's stead. 
Ecclesiastes4:16 There was no end to all the people; he was over all of them. Yet those who come later will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity (emptiness, falsity, vainglory) and a striving after the wind and a feeding on it." 
Ecclesiastes5:1 KEEP YOUR foot [give your mind to what you are doing] when you go [as Jacob to sacred Bethel] to the house of God. For to draw near to hear and obey is better than to give the sacrifice of fools [carelessly, irreverently] too ignorant to know that they are doing evil. [Gen. 35:1-4; Exod. 3:5.]" 
Ecclesiastes5:2 Be not rash with your mouth, and let not your heart be hasty to utter a word before God. For God is in heaven, and you are on earth; therefore let your words be few." 
Ecclesiastes5:3 For a dream comes with much business and painful effort, and a fool's voice with many words." 
Ecclesiastes5:4 When you vow a vow or make a pledge to God, do not put off paying it; for God has no pleasure in fools (those who witlessly mock Him). Pay what you vow. [Ps. 50:14; 66:13, 14; 76:11.]" 
Ecclesiastes5:5 It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. [Prov. 20:25; Acts 5:4.] 
Ecclesiastes5:6 Do not allow your mouth to cause your body to sin, and do not say before the messenger [the priest] that it was an error or mistake. Why should God be [made] angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands? [Mal. 2:7.]" 
Ecclesiastes5:7 For in a multitude of dreams there is futility and worthlessness, and ruin in a flood of words. But [reverently] fear God [revere and worship Him, knowing that He is]." 
Ecclesiastes5:8 If you see the oppression of the poor and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in the state or province, do not marvel at the matter. [Be sure that there are those who will attend to it] for a higher [official] than the high is observing, and higher ones are over them." 
Ecclesiastes5:9 Moreover, the profit of the earth is for all; the king himself is served by the field and in all, a king is an advantage to a land with cultivated fields." 
Ecclesiastes5:10 He who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver, nor he who loves abundance with gain. This also is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes5:11 When goods increase, they who eat them increase also. And what gain is there to their owner except to see them with his eyes?" 
Ecclesiastes5:12 The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much, but the fullness of the rich will not let him sleep." 
Ecclesiastes5:13 There is a serious and severe evil which I have seen under the sun: riches were kept by their owner to his hurt. 
Ecclesiastes5:14 But those riches are lost in a bad venture; and he becomes the father of a son, and there is nothing in his hand [with which to support the child]." 
Ecclesiastes5:15 As [the man] came forth from his mother's womb, so he will go again, naked as he came; and he will take away nothing for all his labor which he can carry in his hand." 
Ecclesiastes5:16 And this also is a serious and severe evil,that in all points as he came, so shall he go; and what gain has he who labors for the wind? [I Tim. 6:6.]" 
Ecclesiastes5:17 All his days also he eats in darkness [cheerlessly, with no sweetness and light in them], and much sorrow and sickness and wrath are his." 
Ecclesiastes5:18 Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is for one to eat and drink, and to find enjoyment in all the labor in which he labors under the sun all the days which God gives him,for this is his [allotted] part. [I Tim. 6:17.]" 
Ecclesiastes5:19 Also, every man to whom God has given riches and possessions, and the power to enjoy them and to accept his appointed lot and to rejoice in his toil,this is the gift of God [to him]." 
Ecclesiastes5:20 For he shall not much remember [seriously] the days of his life, because God [Himself] answers and corresponds to the joy of his heart [the tranquillity of God is mirrored in him]." 
Ecclesiastes6:1 THERE IS an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it lies heavily upon men:" 
Ecclesiastes6:2 A man to whom God has given riches, possessions, and honor, so that he lacks nothing for his soul of all that he might desire, yet God does not give him the power or capacity to enjoy them [things which are gifts from God], but a stranger [in whom he has no interest succeeds him and] consumes and enjoys them. This is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility); it is a sore affliction! [Luke 12:20.]" 
Ecclesiastes6:3 If a man begets a hundred children and lives many years so that the days of his years are many, but his life is not filled with good, and also he is given no burial [honors nor is laid to rest in the sepulcher of his fathers], I say that [he who had] an untimely birth [resulting in death] is better off than he, [Job 3:16.]" 
Ecclesiastes6:3 If a man begets a hundred children and lives many years so that the days of his years are many, but his life is not filled with good, and also he is given no burial [honors nor is laid to rest in the sepulcher of his fathers], I say that [he who had] an untimely birth [resulting in death] is better off than he, [Job 3:16.]" 
Ecclesiastes6:4 For [the untimely one] comes in futility and goes into darkness, and in darkness his name is covered." 
Ecclesiastes6:5 Moreover, he has not seen the sun nor had any knowledge, yet he [the stillborn child] has rest rather than he [who is aware of all that he has missed and all that he would not have had to suffer]." 
Ecclesiastes6:6 Even though he lives a thousand years twice over and yet has seen no good and experienced no enjoyment,do not all go to one place [the place of the dead]? 
Ecclesiastes6:7 All the labor of man is for his mouth [for self-preservation and enjoyment], and yet his desire is not satisfied. [Prov. 16:26.]" 
Ecclesiastes6:8 For what advantage has the wise man over the fool [being worldly-wise is not the secret to happiness]? What advantage has the poor man who has learned how to walk before the living [publicly, with men's eyes upon him; being poor is not the secret to happiness either]?" 
Ecclesiastes6:9 Better is the sight of the eyes [the enjoyment of what is available to one] than the cravings of wandering desire. This is also vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility) and a striving after the wind and a feeding on it!" 
Ecclesiastes6:10 Whatever [man] is, he has been named that long ago, and it is known that it is man [Adam]; nor can he contend with Him who is mightier than he [whether God or death]." 
Ecclesiastes6:11 Seeing that there are [all these and] many other things and words that increase the emptiness, falsity, vainglory, and futility [of living], what profit and what outcome is there for man?" 
Ecclesiastes6:12 For who [limited to human wisdom] knows what is good for man in his life, all the days of his vain life which he spends as a shadow [going through the motions but accomplishing nothing]? For who can tell a man what will happen [to his work, his treasure, his plans] under the sun after he is gone?" 
Ecclesiastes7:1 A GOOD name is better than precious perfume, and the day of death better than the day of one's birth." 
Ecclesiastes7:2 It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to heart." 
Ecclesiastes7:3 Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better and gains gladness. [II Cor. 7:10.]" 
Ecclesiastes7:4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth and sensual joy." 
Ecclesiastes7:5 It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools. 
Ecclesiastes7:6 For like the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes7:7 Surely oppression and extortion make a wise man foolish, and a bribe destroys the understanding and judgment." 
Ecclesiastes7:8 Better is the end of a thing than the beginning of it, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit." 
Ecclesiastes7:9 Do not be quick in spirit to be angry or vexed, for anger and vexation lodge in the bosom of fools. [James 1:19, 20.]" 
Ecclesiastes7:10 Do not say, Why were the old days better than these? For it is not wise or because of wisdom that you ask this." 
Ecclesiastes7:11 Wisdom is as good as an inheritance, yes, more excellent it is for those [the living] who see the sun." 
Ecclesiastes7:12 For wisdom is a defense even as money is a defense, but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom shields and preserves the life of him who has it." 
Ecclesiastes7:13 Consider the work of God: who can make straight what He has made crooked? 
Ecclesiastes7:14 In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider that God has made the one side by side with the other, so that man may not find out anything that shall be after him." 
Ecclesiastes7:15 I have seen everything in the days of my vanity (my emptiness, falsity, vainglory, and futility): there is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in [spite of] his evildoing." 
Ecclesiastes7:16 Be not [morbidly exacting and externally] righteous overmuch, neither strive to make yourself [pretentiously appear] overwise,why should you [get puffed up and] destroy yourself [with presumptuous self-sufficiency]?" 
Ecclesiastes7:17 [Although all have sinned] be not wicked overmuch or willfully, neither be foolish,why should you die before your time?" 
Ecclesiastes7:18 It is good that you should take hold of this and from that withdraw not your hand; for he who [reverently] fears and worships God will come forth from them all. 
Ecclesiastes7:19 [True] wisdom is a strength to the wise man more than ten rulers or valiant generals who are in the city. [Ps. 127:1; II Tim. 3:15.] 
Ecclesiastes7:20 Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth who does good and never sins. [Isa. 53:6; Rom. 3:23.] 
Ecclesiastes7:21 Do not give heed to everything that is said, lest you hear your servant cursing you," 
Ecclesiastes7:22 For often your own heart knows that you have likewise cursed others. 
Ecclesiastes7:23 All this have I tried and proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise [independently of God],but it was far from me." 
Ecclesiastes7:24 That which is is far off, and that which is deep is very deep,who can find it out [true wisdom independent of the fear of God]? [Job 28:12-28; I Cor. 2:9-16.]" 
Ecclesiastes7:24 That which is is far off, and that which is deep is very deep,who can find it out [true wisdom independent of the fear of God]? [Job 28:12-28; I Cor. 2:9-16.]" 
Ecclesiastes7:25 I turned about [penitent] and my heart was set to know and to search out and to seek [true] wisdom and the reason of things, and to know that wickedness is folly and that foolishness is madness [and what had led me into such wickedness and madness]." 
Ecclesiastes7:26 And I found that [of all sinful follies none has been so ruinous in seducing one away from God as idolatrous women] more bitter than death is the woman whose heart is snares and nets and whose hands are bands. Whoever pleases God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her." 
Ecclesiastes7:27 Behold, this I have found, says the Preacher, while weighing one thing after another to find out the right estimate [and the reason]," 
Ecclesiastes7:28 Which I am still seeking but have not found,one upright man among a thousand have I found, but an upright woman among all those [one thousand in my harem] have I not found. [I Kings 11:3.]" 
Ecclesiastes7:29 Behold, this is the only [reason for it that] I have found: God made man upright, but they [men and women] have sought out many devices [for evil]." 
Ecclesiastes8:1 WHO IS like the wise man? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man's wisdom makes his face shine, and the hardness of his countenance is changed." 
Ecclesiastes8:2 I counsel you to keep the king's command, and that in regard to the oath of God [by which you swore to him loyalty]. [II Sam. 21:7.]" 
Ecclesiastes8:3 Be not panic-stricken and hasty to get out of his presence. Persist not in an evil thing, for he does whatever he pleases." 
Ecclesiastes8:4 For the word of a king is authority and power, and who can say to him, What are you doing?" 
Ecclesiastes8:5 Whoever observes the [king's] command will experience no harm, and a wise man's mind will know both when and what to do." 
Ecclesiastes8:6 For every purpose and matter has its [right] time and judgment, although the misery and wickedness of man lies heavily upon him [who rebels against the king]." 
Ecclesiastes8:7 For he does not know what is to be, for who can tell him how and when it will be?" 
Ecclesiastes8:8 There is no man who has power over the spirit to retain the breath of life, neither has he power over the day of death; and there is no discharge in battle [against death], neither will wickedness deliver those who are its possessors and given to it." 
Ecclesiastes8:9 All this have I seen while applying my mind to every work that is done under the sun. There is a time in which one man has power over another to his own hurt or to the other man's. 
Ecclesiastes8:10 And so I saw the wicked buried,those who had come and gone out of the holy place [but did not thereby escape their doom], and they are [praised and] forgotten in the city where they had done such things. This also is vanity (emptiness, falsity, vainglory, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes8:11 Because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, the hearts of the sons of men are fully set to do evil." 
Ecclesiastes8:12 Though a sinner does evil a hundred times and his days [seemingly] are prolonged [in his wickedness], yet surely I know that it will be well with those who [reverently] fear God, who revere and worship Him, realizing His continual presence. [Ps. 37:11, 18, 19; Isa. 3:10, 11; Matt. 25:34.]" 
Ecclesiastes8:13 But it will not be well with the wicked, neither will he prolong his days like a shadow, because he does not [reverently] fear and worship God. [Matt. 25:41.]" 
Ecclesiastes8:14 Here also is a futility that goes on upon the earth: there are righteous men who fare as though they were wicked, and wicked men who fare as though they were righteous. I say that this also is vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes8:15 Then I commended enjoyment, because a man has no better thing under the sun [without God] than to eat and to drink and to be joyful, for that will remain with him in his toil through the days of his life which God gives him under the sun." 
Ecclesiastes8:16 When I applied my mind to know wisdom and to see the business activity and the painful effort that take place upon the earth,how neither day nor night some men's eyes sleep, 
Ecclesiastes8:17 Then I saw all the work of God, that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun,because however much a man may toil in seeking, yet he will not find it out; yes, more than that, though a wise man thinks and claims he knows, yet will he not be able to find it out. [Deut. 29:29; Rom. 11:33.]" 
Ecclesiastes9:1 FOR ALL this I took to heart, exploring and examining it all, how the righteous (the upright, in right standing with God) and the wise and their works are in the hands of God. Whether it is to be love or hatred no man knows; all that is before them." 
Ecclesiastes9:2 All things come alike to all. There is one event to the righteous and to the wicked, to the good and to the clean and to the unclean; to him who sacrifices and to him who does not sacrifice. As is the good man, so is the sinner; and he who swears is as he who fears and shuns an oath." 
Ecclesiastes9:3 This evil is in all that is done under the sun: one fate comes to all. Also the hearts of men are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead." 
Ecclesiastes9:4 [There is no exemption] but he who is joined to all the living has hope,for a living dog is better than a dead lion. 
Ecclesiastes9:5 For the living know that they will die, but the dead know nothing; and they have no more reward [here], for the memory of them is forgotten." 
Ecclesiastes9:6 Their love and their hatred and their envy have already perished; neither have they any more a share in anything that is done under the sun. 
Ecclesiastes9:7 Go your way, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a cheerful heart [if you are righteous, wise, and in the hands of God], for God has already accepted your works." 
Ecclesiastes9:8 Let your garments be always white [with purity], and let your head not lack [the] oil [of gladness]." 
Ecclesiastes9:9 Live joyfully with the wife whom you love all the days of your vain life which He has given you under the sun,all the days of futility. For that is your portion in this life and in your work at which you toil under the sun. 
Ecclesiastes9:10 Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might, for there is no work or device or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol (the place of the dead), where you are going." 
Ecclesiastes9:11 I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong, neither is bread to the wise nor riches to men of intelligence and understanding nor favor to men of skill; but time and chance happen to them all. [Ps. 33:16-19; Rom. 9:16.]" 
Ecclesiastes9:12 For man also knows not his time [of death]: as the fishes are taken in an evil net, and as the birds are caught in the snare, so are the sons of men snared in an evil time when [calamity] falls suddenly upon them." 
Ecclesiastes9:13 This [illustration of] wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great to me:" 
Ecclesiastes9:14 There was a little city with few men in it. And a great king came against it and besieged it and built great bulwarks against it. 
Ecclesiastes9:15 But there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city. Yet no man [seriously] remembered that poor man." 
Ecclesiastes9:16 But I say that wisdom is better than might, though the poor man's wisdom is despised and his words are not heeded." 
Ecclesiastes9:17 The words of wise men heard in quiet are better than the shouts of him who rules among fools. 
Ecclesiastes9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good." 
Ecclesiastes10:1 DEAD FLIES cause the ointment of the perfumer to putrefy [and] send forth a vile odor; so does a little folly [in him who is valued for wisdom] outweigh wisdom and honor. 
Ecclesiastes10:2 A wise man's heart turns him toward his right hand, but a fool's heart toward his left. [Matt. 25:31-41.]" 
Ecclesiastes10:3 Even when he who is a fool walks along the road, his heart and understanding fail him, and he says of everyone and to everyone that he is a fool." 
Ecclesiastes10:4 If the temper of the ruler rises up against you, do not leave your place [or show a resisting spirit]; for gentleness and calmness prevent or put a stop to great offenses." 
Ecclesiastes10:5 There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, like an error which proceeds from the ruler:" 
Ecclesiastes10:6 Folly is set in great dignity and in high places, and the rich sit in low places." 
Ecclesiastes10:7 I have seen slaves on horses, and princes walking like slaves on the earth." 
Ecclesiastes10:8 He who digs a pit [for others] will fall into it, and whoever breaks through a fence or a [stone] wall, a serpent will bite him. [Ps. 57:6.]" 
Ecclesiastes10:9 Whoever removes [landmark] stones or hews out [new ones with similar intent] will be hurt with them, and he who fells trees will be endangered by them. [Prov. 26:27.]" 
Ecclesiastes10:10 If the ax is dull and the man does not whet the edge, he must put forth more strength; but wisdom helps him to succeed." 
Ecclesiastes10:11 If the serpent bites before it is charmed, then it is no use to call a charmer [and the slanderer is no better than the uncharmed snake]." 
Ecclesiastes10:12 The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious and win him favor, but the lips of a fool consume him." 
Ecclesiastes10:13 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end of his talk is wicked madness." 
Ecclesiastes10:14 A fool also multiplies words, though no man can tell what will be,and what will happen after he is gone, who can tell him?" 
Ecclesiastes10:15 The labor of fools wearies every one of them, because [he is so ignorant of the ordinary matters that] he does not even know how to get to town." 
Ecclesiastes10:16 Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child or a servant and when your officials feast in the morning!" 
Ecclesiastes10:17 Happy (fortunate and to be envied) are you, O land, when your king is a free man and of noble birth and character and when your officials feast at the proper time,for strength and not for drunkenness! [Isa. 32:8.]" 
Ecclesiastes10:18 Through indolence the rafters [of state affairs] decay and the roof sinks in, and through idleness of the hands the house leaks." 
Ecclesiastes10:19 [Instead of repairing the breaches, the officials] make a feast for laughter, serve wine to cheer life, and [depend on tax] money to answer for all of it." 
Ecclesiastes10:20 Curse not the king, no, not even in your thoughts, and curse not the rich in your bedchamber, for a bird of the air will carry the voice, and a winged creature will tell the matter. [Exod. 22:28.]" 
Ecclesiastes11:1 CAST YOUR bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days." 
Ecclesiastes11:2 Give a portion to seven, yes, even [divide it] to eight, for you know not what evil may come upon the earth." 
Ecclesiastes11:3 If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth; and if a tree falls toward the south or toward the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it will lie." 
Ecclesiastes11:4 He who observes the wind [and waits for all conditions to be favorable] will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap." 
Ecclesiastes11:5 As you know not what is the way of the wind, or how the spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a pregnant woman, even so you know not the work of God, Who does all." 
Ecclesiastes11:6 In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening withhold not your hands, for you know not which shall prosper, whether this or that, or whether both alike will be good." 
Ecclesiastes11:7 Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun." 
Ecclesiastes11:8 Yes, if a man should live many years, let him rejoice in them all; yet let him [seriously] remember the days of darkness, for they will be many. All that comes is vanity (emptiness, falsity, vainglory, and futility)!" 
Ecclesiastes11:9 Rejoice, O young man, in your adolescence, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your [full-grown] youth. And walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes, but know that for all these things God will bring you into judgment." 
Ecclesiastes11:10 Therefore remove [the lusts that end in] sorrow and vexation from your heart and mind and put away evil from your body, for youth and the dawn of life are vanity [transitory, idle, empty, and devoid of truth]. [II Cor. 7:1; II Tim. 2:22.]" 
Ecclesiastes12:1 REMEMBER [earnestly] also your Creator [that you are not your own, but His property now] in the days of your youth, before the evil days come or the years draw near when you will say [of physical pleasures], I have no enjoyment in them,[II Sam. 19:35.]" 
Ecclesiastes12:2 Before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened [sight is impaired], and the clouds [of depression] return after the rain [of tears];" 
Ecclesiastes12:3 In the day when the keepers of the house [the hands and the arms] tremble, and the strong men [the feet and the knees] bow themselves, and the grinders [the molar teeth] cease because they are few, and those who look out of the windows [the eyes] are darkened;" 
Ecclesiastes12:4 When the doors [the lips] are shut in the streets and the sound of the grinding [of the teeth] is low, and one rises up at the voice of a bird and the crowing of a cock, and all the daughters of music [the voice and the ear] are brought low;" 
Ecclesiastes12:5 Also when [the old] are afraid of danger from that which is high, and fears are in the way, and the almond tree [their white hair] blooms, and the grasshopper [a little thing] is a burden, and desire and appetite fail, because man goes to his everlasting home and the mourners go about the streets or marketplaces. [Job 17:13.]" 
Ecclesiastes12:5 Also when [the old] are afraid of danger from that which is high, and fears are in the way, and the almond tree [their white hair] blooms, and the grasshopper [a little thing] is a burden, and desire and appetite fail, because man goes to his everlasting home and the mourners go about the streets or marketplaces. [Job 17:13.]" 
Ecclesiastes12:6 [Remember your Creator earnestly now] before the silver cord [of life] is snapped apart, or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern [and the whole circulatory system of the blood ceases to function];" 
Ecclesiastes12:7 Then shall the dust [out of which God made man's body] return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return to God Who gave it." 
Ecclesiastes12:8 Vapor of vapors and futility of futilities, says the Preacher. All is futility (emptiness, falsity, vainglory, and transitoriness)!" 
Ecclesiastes12:9 And furthermore, because the Preacher was wise, he [Solomon] still taught the people knowledge; and he pondered and searched out and set in order many proverbs." 
Ecclesiastes12:10 The Preacher sought acceptable words, even to write down rightly words of truth or correct sentiment." 
Ecclesiastes12:11 The words of the wise are like prodding goads, and firmly fixed [in the mind] like nails are the collected sayings which are given [as proceeding] from one Shepherd. [Ezek. 37:24.]" 
Ecclesiastes12:12 But about going further [than the words given by one Shepherd], my son, be warned. Of making many books there is no end [so do not believe everything you read], and much study is a weariness of the flesh." 
Ecclesiastes12:13 All has been heard; the end of the matter is: Fear God [revere and worship Him, knowing that He is] and keep His commandments, for this is the whole of man [the full, original purpose of his creation, the object of God's providence, the root of character, the foundation of all happiness, the adjustment to all inharmonious circumstances and conditions under the sun] and the whole [duty] for every man." 
Ecclesiastes12:14 For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it is good or evil. [Matt. 12:36; Acts 17:30, 31; Rom. 2:16; I Cor. 4:5.]" 
SongOfSongs1:1 THE SONG of songs [the most excellent of them all] which is Solomon's. [I Kings 4:32.] 
SongOfSongs1:2 Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! [she cries. Then, realizing that Solomon has arrived and has heard her speech, she turns to him and adds] For your love is better than wine!" 
SongOfSongs1:3 [And she continues] The odor of your ointments is fragrant; your name is like perfume poured out. Therefore do the maidens love you. 
SongOfSongs1:4 Draw me! We will run after you! The king brings me into his apartments! We will be glad and rejoice in you! We will recall [when we were favored with] your love, more fragrant than wine. The upright [are not offended at your choice, but sincerely] love you." 
SongOfSongs1:5 I am so black; but [you are] lovely and pleasant [the ladies assured her]. O you daughters of Jerusalem, [I am as dark] as the tents of [the Bedouin tribe] Kedar, like the [beautiful] curtains of Solomon!" 
SongOfSongs1:6 [Please] do not look at me, [she said, for] I am swarthy. [I have worked out] in the sun and it has left its mark upon me. My stepbrothers were angry with me, and they made me keeper of the vineyards; but my own vineyard [my complexion] I have not kept." 
SongOfSongs1:7 [Addressing her shepherd, she said] Tell me, O you whom my soul loves, where you pasture your flock, where you make it lie down at noon. For why should I [as I think of you] be as a veiled one straying beside the flocks of your companions? [Ps. 23:1, 2.]" 
SongOfSongs1:8 If you do not know [where your lover is], O you fairest among women, run along, follow the tracks of the flock, and [amuse yourself by] pasturing your kids beside the shepherds' tents." 
SongOfSongs1:9 O my love [he said as he saw her], you remind me of my [favorite] mare in the chariot spans of Pharaoh." 
SongOfSongs1:10 Your cheeks are comely with ornaments, your neck with strings of jewels." 
SongOfSongs1:11 We will make for you chains and ornaments of gold, studded with silver." 
SongOfSongs1:12 While the king sits at his table [she said], my spikenard [my absent lover] sends forth [his] fragrance [over me]." 
SongOfSongs1:13 My beloved [shepherd] is to me like a [scent] bag of myrrh that lies in my bosom. 
SongOfSongs1:14 My beloved [shepherd] is to me a cluster of henna flowers in the vineyards of En-gedi [famed for its fragrant shrubs]. 
SongOfSongs1:15 Behold, you are beautiful, my love! Behold, you are beautiful! You have doves' eyes." 
SongOfSongs1:16 [She cried] Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved [shepherd], yes, delightful! Our arbor and couch are green and leafy." 
SongOfSongs1:17 The beams of our house are cedars, and our rafters and panels are cypresses or pines." 
SongOfSongs2:1 [SHE SAID] I am only a little rose or autumn crocus of the plain of Sharon, or a [humble] lily of the valleys [that grows in deep and difficult places]." 
SongOfSongs2:2 But Solomon replied, Like the lily among thorns, so are you, my love, among the daughters." 
SongOfSongs2:3 Like an apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved [shepherd] among the sons [cried the girl]! Under his shadow I delighted to sit, and his fruit was sweet to my taste." 
SongOfSongs2:4 He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love [for love waved as a protecting and comforting banner over my head when I was near him]." 
SongOfSongs2:5 Sustain me with raisins, refresh me with apples, for I am sick with love." 
SongOfSongs2:6 [I can feel] his left hand under my head and his right hand embraces me! [Deut. 33:27; Matt. 28:20.] 
SongOfSongs2:7 [He said] I charge you, O you daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or by the hinds of the field [which are free to follow their own instincts] that you not try to stir up or awaken [my] love until it pleases." 
SongOfSongs2:8 [Vividly she pictured it] The voice of my beloved [shepherd]! Behold, he comes, leaping upon the mountains, bounding over the hills. [John 10:27.]" 
SongOfSongs2:9 My beloved is like a gazelle or a young hart. Behold, he stands behind the wall of our house, he looks in through the windows, he glances through the lattice." 
SongOfSongs2:10 My beloved speaks and says to me, Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away." 
SongOfSongs2:11 For, behold, the winter is past; the rain is over and gone." 
SongOfSongs2:12 The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing [of birds] has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land." 
SongOfSongs2:13 The fig tree puts forth and ripens her green figs, and the vines are in blossom and give forth their fragrance. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away." 
SongOfSongs2:14 [So I went with him, and when we were climbing the rocky steps up the hillside, my beloved shepherd said to me] O my dove, [while you are here] in the seclusion of the clefts in the solid rock, in the sheltered and secret place of the cliff, let me see your face, let me hear your voice; for your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely." 
SongOfSongs2:15 [My heart was touched and I fervently sang to him my desire] Take for us the foxes, the little foxes that spoil the vineyards [of our love], for our vineyards are in blossom." 
SongOfSongs2:16 [She said distinctly] My beloved is mine and I am his! He pastures his flocks among the lilies. [Matt. 10:32; Acts 4:12.] 
SongOfSongs2:17 [Then, longingly addressing her absent shepherd, she cried] Until the day breaks and the shadows flee away, return hastily, O my beloved, and be like a gazelle or a young hart as you cover the mountains [which separate us]." 
SongOfSongs3:1 IN THE night I dreamed that I sought the one whom I love. [She said] I looked for him but could not find him. [Isa. 26:9.] 
SongOfSongs3:2 So I decided to go out into the city, into the streets and broad ways [which are so confusing to a country girl], and seek him whom my soul loves. I sought him, but I could not find him." 
SongOfSongs3:3 The watchmen who go about the city found me, to whom I said, Have you seen him whom my soul loves?" 
SongOfSongs3:4 I had gone but a little way past them when I found him whom my soul loves. I held him and would not let him go until I had brought him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her who conceived me. [Rom. 8:35; I Pet. 2:25.]" 
SongOfSongs3:5 I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or by the hinds of the field that you stir not up nor awaken love until it pleases." 
SongOfSongs3:6 Who or what is this [she asked] that comes gliding out of the wilderness like stately pillars of smoke perfumed with myrrh, frankincense, and all the fragrant powders of the merchant?" 
SongOfSongs3:7 [Someone answered] Behold, it is the traveling litter (the bridal car) of Solomon. Sixty mighty men are around it, of the mighty men of Israel." 
SongOfSongs3:8 They all handle the sword and are expert in war; every man has his sword upon his thigh, that fear be not excited in the night." 
SongOfSongs3:9 King Solomon made himself a car or a palanquin from the [cedar] wood of Lebanon. 
SongOfSongs3:10 He made its posts of silver, its back of gold, its seat of purple, the inside of it lovingly and intricately wrought in needlework by the daughters of Jerusalem." 
SongOfSongs3:11 Go forth, O you daughters of Zion, and gaze upon King Solomon wearing the crown with which his mother [Bathsheba] crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of his gladness of heart." 
SongOfSongs4:1 HOW FAIR you are, my love [he said], how very fair! Your eyes behind your veil [remind me] of those of a dove; your hair [makes me think of the black, wavy fleece] of a flock of [the Arabian] goats which one sees trailing down Mount Gilead [beyond the Jordan on the frontiers of the desert]." 
SongOfSongs4:2 Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes which have come up from the washing, of which all are in pairs, and none is missing among them." 
SongOfSongs4:3 Your lips are like a thread of scarlet, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil." 
SongOfSongs4:4 Your neck is like the tower of David, built for an arsenal, whereon hang a thousand bucklers, all of them shields of warriors." 
SongOfSongs4:5 Your two breasts are like two fawns, like twins of a gazelle that feed among the lilies." 
SongOfSongs4:6 Until the day breaks and the shadows flee away, [in my thoughts] I will get to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankincense [to him whom my soul adores]." 
SongOfSongs4:7 [He exclaimed] O my love, how beautiful you are! There is no flaw in you! [John 14:18; Eph. 5:27.]" 
SongOfSongs4:8 Come away with me from Lebanon, my [promised] bride, come with me from Lebanon. Depart from the top of Amana, from the peak of Senir and Hermon, from the lions' dens, from the mountains of the leopards. [II Cor. 11:2, 3.]" 
SongOfSongs4:9 You have ravished my heart and given me courage, my sister, my [promised] bride; you have ravished my heart and given me courage with one look from your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace." 
SongOfSongs4:10 How beautiful is your love, my sister, my [promised] bride! How much better is your love than wine! And the fragrance of your ointments than all spices! [John 15:9; Rom. 8:35.]" 
SongOfSongs4:11 Your lips, O my [promised] bride, drop honey as the honeycomb; honey and milk are under your tongue. And the odor of your garments is like the odor of Lebanon." 
SongOfSongs4:12 A garden enclosed and barred is my sister, my [promised] bride,a spring shut up, a fountain sealed." 
SongOfSongs4:13 Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates or a paradise with precious fruits, henna with spikenard plants, [John 15:5; Eph. 5:9.]" 
SongOfSongs4:14 Spikenard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh, and aloes, with all the chief spices." 
SongOfSongs4:15 You are a fountain [springing up] in a garden, a well of living waters, and flowing streams from Lebanon. [John 4:10; 7:37, 38.]" 
SongOfSongs4:16 [You have called me a garden, she said] Oh, I pray that the [cold] north wind and the [soft] south wind may blow upon my garden, that its spices may flow out [in abundance for you in whom my soul delights]. Let my beloved come into his garden and eat its choicest fruits." 
SongOfSongs5:1 I HAVE come into my garden, my sister, my [promised] bride; I have gathered my myrrh with my balsam and spice [from your sweet words I have gathered the richest perfumes and spices]. I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends [feast on, O revelers of the palace; you can never make my lover disloyal to me]! Drink, yes, drink abundantly of love, O precious one [for now I know you are mine, irrevocably mine! With his confident words still thrilling her heart, through the lattice she saw her shepherd turn away and disappear into the night]. [John 16:33.]" 
SongOfSongs5:2 I went to sleep, but my heart stayed awake. [I dreamed that I heard] the voice of my beloved as he knocked [at the door of my mother's cottage]. Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my spotless one [he said], for I am wet with the [heavy] night dew; my hair is covered with it. [Job 11:13-15.]" 
SongOfSongs5:2 I went to sleep, but my heart stayed awake. [I dreamed that I heard] the voice of my beloved as he knocked [at the door of my mother's cottage]. Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my spotless one [he said], for I am wet with the [heavy] night dew; my hair is covered with it. [Job 11:13-15.]" 
SongOfSongs5:3 [But weary from a day in the vineyards, I had already sought my rest] I had put off my garment,how could I [again] put it on? I had washed my feet,how could I [again] soil them? [Isa. 32:9; Heb. 3:15.]" 
SongOfSongs5:4 My beloved put in his hand by the hole of the door, and my heart was moved for him." 
SongOfSongs5:5 I rose up to open for my beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh, and my fingers with liquid [sweet-scented] myrrh, [which he had left] upon the handles of the bolt." 
SongOfSongs5:6 I opened for my beloved, but my beloved had turned away and withdrawn himself, and was gone! My soul went forth [to him] when he spoke, but it failed me [and now he was gone]! I sought him, but I could not find him; I called him, but he gave me no answer." 
SongOfSongs5:7 The watchmen who go about the city found me. They struck me, they wounded me; the keepers of the walls took my veil and my mantle from me." 
SongOfSongs5:8 I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, that you tell him that I am sick from love [simply sick to be with him]. [Ps. 63:1.]" 
SongOfSongs5:9 What is your beloved more than another beloved, O you fairest among women [taunted the ladies]? What is your beloved more than another beloved, that you should give us such a charge? [John 10:26.]" 
SongOfSongs5:10 [She said] My beloved is fair and ruddy, the chief among ten thousand! [Ps. 45:2; John 1:14.]" 
SongOfSongs5:11 His head is [as precious as] the finest gold; his locks are curly and bushy and black as a raven. 
SongOfSongs5:12 His eyes are like doves beside the water brooks, bathed in milk and fitly set." 
SongOfSongs5:13 His cheeks are like a bed of spices or balsam, like banks of sweet herbs yielding fragrance. His lips are like bloodred anemones or lilies distilling liquid [sweet-scented] myrrh." 
SongOfSongs5:14 His hands are like rods of gold set with [nails of] beryl or topaz. His body is a figure of bright ivory overlaid with [veins of] sapphires. 
SongOfSongs5:15 His legs are like strong and steady pillars of marble set upon bases of fine gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, excellent, stately, and majestic as the cedars." 
SongOfSongs5:16 His voice and speech are exceedingly sweet; yes, he is altogether lovely [the whole of him delights and is precious]. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem! [Ps. 92:15; Col. 1:15.]" 
SongOfSongs6:1 WHERE HAS your beloved gone, O you fairest among women? [Again the ladies showed their interest in the remarkable person whom the Shulammite had championed with such unstinted praise; they too wanted to know him, they insisted.] Where is your beloved hiding himself? For we would seek him with you." 
SongOfSongs6:2 [She replied] My beloved has gone down to his garden, to the beds of spices, to feed in the gardens and to gather lilies." 
SongOfSongs6:3 I am my beloved's [garden] and my beloved is mine! He feeds among the lilies [which grow there]. 
SongOfSongs6:4 [He said] You are as beautiful as Tirzah [capital of the northern kingdom's first king], my love, and as comely as Jerusalem, [but you are] as terrible as a bannered host!" 
SongOfSongs6:5 Turn away your [flashing] eyes from me, for they have overcome me! Your hair is like a flock of goats trailing down from Mount Gilead." 
SongOfSongs6:6 Your teeth are like a flock of ewes coming from their washing, of which all are in pairs, and not one of them is missing." 
SongOfSongs6:7 Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil. 
SongOfSongs6:8 There are sixty queens and eighty concubines, and virgins without number;" 
SongOfSongs6:9 But my dove, my undefiled and perfect one, stands alone [above them all]; she is the only one of her mother, she is the choice one of her who bore her. The daughters saw her and called her blessed and happy, yes, the queens and the concubines, and they praised her. [Col. 2:8, 9.]" 
SongOfSongs6:10 [The ladies asked] Who is this that looks forth like the dawn, fair as the moon, clear and pure as the sun, and terrible as a bannered host?" 
SongOfSongs6:11 [The Shulammite replied] I went down into the nut orchard [one day] to look at the green plants of the valley, to see whether the grapevine had budded and the pomegranates were in flower." 
SongOfSongs6:12 Before I was aware [of what was happening], my desire [to roam about] had brought me into the area of the princes of my people [the king's retinue]." 
SongOfSongs6:13 [I began to flee, but they called to me] Return, return, O Shulammite; return, return, that we may look upon you! [I replied] What is there for you to see in the [poor little] Shulammite? [And they answered] As upon a dance before two armies or a dance of Mahanaim." 
SongOfSongs7:1 [THEN HER companions began noticing and commenting on the attractiveness of her person] How beautiful are your feet in sandals, O queenly maiden! Your rounded limbs are like jeweled chains, the work of a master hand." 
SongOfSongs7:2 Your body is like a round goblet in which no mixed wine is wanting. Your abdomen is like a heap of wheat set about with lilies. 
SongOfSongs7:3 Your two breasts are like two fawns, the twins of a gazelle." 
SongOfSongs7:4 Your neck is like a tower of ivory, your eyes like the pools of Heshbon by the gate of Bath-rabbim. Your nose is like the tower of Lebanon which looks toward Damascus." 
SongOfSongs7:5 Your head crowns you like Mount Carmel, and the hair of your head like purple. [Then seeing the king watching the girl in absorbed admiration, the speaker added] The king is held captive by its tresses." 
SongOfSongs7:6 [The king came forward, saying] How fair and how pleasant you are, O love, with your delights!" 
SongOfSongs7:7 Your stature is like that of a palm tree, and your bosom like its clusters [of dates, declared the king]." 
SongOfSongs7:8 I resolve that I will climb the palm tree; I will grasp its branches. Let your breasts be like clusters of the grapevine, and the scent of your breath like apples," 
SongOfSongs7:9 And your kisses like the best wine,[then the Shulammite interrupted] that goes down smoothly and sweetly for my beloved [shepherd, kisses] gliding over his lips while he sleeps!" 
SongOfSongs7:10 [She proudly said] I am my beloved's, and his desire is toward me! [John 10:28.]" 
SongOfSongs7:11 [She said] Come, my beloved! Let us go forth into the field, let us lodge in the villages. [Luke 14:33.]" 
SongOfSongs7:12 Let us go out early to the vineyards and see whether the vines have budded, whether the grape blossoms have opened, and whether the pomegranates are in bloom. There I will give you my love." 
SongOfSongs7:13 The mandrakes give forth fragrance, and over our doors are all manner of choice fruits, new and old, which I have laid up for you, O my beloved!" 
SongOfSongs8:1 [LOOKING FORWARD to the shepherd's arrival, the eager girl pictures their meeting and says] Oh, that you were like my brother, who nursed from the breasts of my mother! If I should find you without, I would kiss you, yes, and none would despise me [for it]. [Ps. 143:6.]" 
SongOfSongs8:2 I would lead you and bring you into the house of my mother, who would instruct me. I would cause you to drink spiced wine and of the juice of my pomegranates." 
SongOfSongs8:3 [Then musingly she added] Oh, that his left hand were under my head and that his right hand embraced me! [Exod. 19:4; Deut. 33:27.]" 
SongOfSongs8:4 I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that you never [again attempt to] stir up or awaken love until it pleases." 
SongOfSongs8:5 Who is this who comes up from the wilderness leaning upon her beloved? [And as they sighted the home of her childhood, the bride said] Under the apple tree I awakened you; there your mother gave you birth, there she was in travail and bore you." 
SongOfSongs8:6 Set me like a seal upon your heart, like a seal upon your arm; for love is as strong as death, jealousy is as hard and cruel as Sheol (the place of the dead). Its flashes are flashes of fire, a most vehement flame [the very flame of the Lord]! [Deut. 4:24; Isa. 49:16; I Cor. 10:22.]" 
SongOfSongs8:7 Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man would offer all the goods of his house for love, he would be utterly scorned and despised." 
SongOfSongs8:8 [Gathered with her family and the wedding guests in her mother's cottage, the bride said to her stepbrothers, When I was a little girl, you said] We have a little sister and she has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day when she is spoken for in marriage?" 
SongOfSongs8:9 If she is a wall [discreet and womanly], we will build upon her a turret [a dowry] of silver; but if she is a door [bold and flirtatious], we will enclose her with boards of cedar." 
SongOfSongs8:10 [Well] I am a wall [with battlements], and my breasts are like the towers of it. Then was I in [the king's] eyes as one [to be respected and to be allowed] to find peace." 
SongOfSongs8:11 Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon; he let out the vineyard to keepers; everyone was to bring him a thousand pieces of silver for its fruit. 
SongOfSongs8:12 You, O Solomon, can have your thousand [pieces of silver], and those who tend the fruit of it two hundred; but my vineyard, which is mine [with all its radiant joy], is before me!" 
SongOfSongs8:13 O you who dwell in the gardens, your companions have been listening to your voice,now cause me to hear it." 
SongOfSongs8:14 [Joyfully the radiant bride turned to him, the one altogether lovely, the chief among ten thousand to her soul, and with unconcealed eagerness to begin her life of sweet companionship with him, she answered] Make haste, my beloved, and come quickly, like a gazelle or a young hart [and take me to our waiting home] upon the mountains of spices!" 
Isaiah1:1 THE VISION [seen by spiritual perception] of Isaiah son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah [the kingdom] and Jerusalem [its capital] in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah." 
Isaiah1:2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth! For the Lord has spoken: I have nourished and brought up sons and have made them great and exalted, but they have rebelled against Me and broken away from Me." 
Isaiah1:3 The ox [instinctively] knows his owner, and the donkey his master's crib, but Israel does not know or recognize Me [as Lord], My people do not consider or understand." 
Isaiah1:4 Ah, sinful nation, a people loaded with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, sons who deal corruptly! They have forsaken the Lord, they have despised and shown contempt and provoked the Holy One of Israel to anger, they have become utterly estranged (alienated)." 
Isaiah1:5 Why should you be stricken and punished any more [since it brings no correction]? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart is faint (feeble, sick, and nauseated)." 
Isaiah1:6 From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness or health in [the nation's body],but wounds and bruises and fresh and bleeding stripes; they have not been pressed out and closed up or bound up or softened with oil. [No one has troubled to seek a remedy.] 
Isaiah1:7 [Because of your detestable disobedience] your country lies desolate, your cities are burned with fire; your land,strangers devour it in your very presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by aliens." 
Isaiah1:8 And the Daughter of Zion [Jerusalem] is left like a [deserted] booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, like a besieged city [spared, but in the midst of desolation]." 
Isaiah1:9 Except the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant [of survivors], we should have been like Sodom, and we should have been like Gomorrah. [Gen. 19:24, 25; Rom. 9:29.]" 
Isaiah1:10 Hear [O Jerusalem] the word of the Lord, you rulers or judges of [another] Sodom! Give ear to the law and the teaching of our God, you people of [another] Gomorrah!" 
Isaiah1:11 To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to Me [unless they are the offering of the heart]? says the Lord. I have had enough of the burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed beasts [without obedience]; and I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or of he-goats [without righteousness]. 
Isaiah1:12 When you come to appear before Me, who requires of you that your [unholy feet] trample My courts?" 
Isaiah1:13 Bring no more offerings of vanity (emptiness, falsity, vainglory, and futility); [your hollow offering of] incense is an abomination to Me; the New Moons and Sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot endure,[it is] iniquity and profanation, even the solemn meeting." 
Isaiah1:14 Your New Moon festivals and your [hypocritical] appointed feasts My soul hates. They are an oppressive burden to Me; I am weary of bearing them. 
Isaiah1:15 And when you spread forth your hands [in prayer, imploring help], I will hide My eyes from you; even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood!" 
Isaiah1:16 Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean; put away the evil of your doings from before My eyes! Cease to do evil," 
Isaiah1:17 Learn to do right! Seek justice, relieve the oppressed, and correct the oppressor. Defend the fatherless, plead for the widow." 
Isaiah1:18 Come now, and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall be like wool." 
Isaiah1:19 If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;" 
Isaiah1:20 But if you refuse and rebel, you will be devoured by the sword. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken it." 
Isaiah1:21 How the faithful city has become an [idolatrous] harlot, she who was full of justice! Uprightness and right standing with God [once] lodged in her,but now murderers." 
Isaiah1:22 Your silver has become dross, your wine is mixed with water." 
Isaiah1:23 Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves; everyone loves bribes and runs after compensation and rewards. They judge not for the fatherless nor defend them, neither does the cause of the widow come to them [for they delay or turn a deaf ear]." 
Isaiah1:24 Therefore says the Lord, the Lord of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will appease Myself on My adversaries and avenge Myself on My enemies." 
Isaiah1:25 And I will bring My hand again upon you and thoroughly purge away your dross [as with lye] and take away all your tin or alloy. 
Isaiah1:26 And I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning; afterward you shall be called the City of Righteousness, the Faithful City." 
Isaiah1:27 Zion shall be redeemed with justice, and her [returned] converts with righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God)." 
Isaiah1:28 But the crushing and destruction of rebels and sinners shall be together, and they who forsake the Lord shall be consumed." 
Isaiah1:29 For you will be ashamed [of the folly and degradation] of the oak or terebinth trees in which you found [idolatrous] pleasure, and you will blush with shame for the [idolatrous worship which you practice in the passion-inflaming] gardens which you have chosen." 
Isaiah1:30 For you shall be like an oak or terebinth whose leaf withers, and like a garden that has no water." 
Isaiah1:31 And the strong shall become like tow and become tinder, and his work like a spark, and they shall both burn together, with none to quench them." 
Isaiah2:1 THE WORD which Isaiah son of Amoz saw [revealed] concerning Judah and Jerusalem. 
Isaiah2:2 It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be [firmly] established as the highest of the mountains and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow to it." 
Isaiah2:3 And many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that He may teach us His ways and that we may walk in His paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law and instruction, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:4 And He shall judge between the nations and shall decide [disputes] for many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. [Mic. 4:1-3.]" 
Isaiah2:5 O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the Lord." 
Isaiah2:6 Surely [Lord] You have rejected and forsaken your people, the house of Jacob, because they are filled [with customs] from the east and with soothsayers [who foretell] like the Philistines; also they strike hands and make pledges and agreements with the children of aliens. [Deut. 18:9-12.]" 
Isaiah2:7 Their land also is full of silver and gold; neither is there any end to their treasures. Their land is also full of horses; neither is there any end to their chariots. [Deut. 17:14-17.] 
Isaiah2:8 Their land also is full of idols; they worship the work of their own hands, what their own fingers have made." 
Isaiah2:9 And the common man is bowed down [before idols], also the great man is brought low and humbles himself,therefore forgive them not [O Lord]." 
Isaiah2:10 Enter into the rock and hide yourself in the dust from before the terror of the Lord and from the glory of His majesty. 
Isaiah2:11 The proud looks of man shall be brought low, and the haughtiness of men shall be humbled; and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day." 
Isaiah2:12 For there shall be a day of the Lord of hosts against all who are proud and haughty and against all who are lifted up,and they shall be brought low,[Zeph. 2:3; Mal. 4:1.] 
Isaiah2:13 [The wrath of God will begin by coming down] against all the cedars of Lebanon [west of the Jordan] that are high and lifted up, and against all the oaks of Bashan [east of the Jordan]," 
Isaiah2:14 And [after that] against all the high mountains and all the hills that are lifted up," 
Isaiah2:15 And against every high tower and every fenced wall," 
Isaiah2:16 And against all the ships of Tarshish and all the picturesque and desirable imagery [designed for mere ornament and luxury]. 
Isaiah2:17 Then the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be brought low; and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day." 
Isaiah2:18 And the idols shall utterly pass away (be abolished). 
Isaiah2:19 Then shall [the stricken, deprived of all in which they had trusted] go into the caves of the rocks and into the holes of the earth from before the terror and dread of the Lord and from before the glory of His majesty, when He arises to shake mightily and terribly the earth. [Luke 23:30.]" 
Isaiah2:20 In that day men shall cast away to the moles and to the bats their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which they made for themselves to worship," 
Isaiah2:21 To go into the caverns of the rocks and into the clefts of the ragged rocks from before the terror and dread of the Lord and from before the glory of His majesty, when He rises to shake mightily and terribly the earth." 
Isaiah2:22 Cease to trust in [weak, frail, and dying] man, whose breath is in his nostrils [for so short a time]; in what sense can he be counted as having intrinsic worth?" 
Isaiah3:1 FOR BEHOLD, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff [every kind of prop], the whole stay of bread and the whole stay of water," 
Isaiah3:2 The mighty man and the man of war, the judge and the [professional] prophet, the one who foretells by divination and the old man," 
Isaiah3:3 The captain of fifty and the man of rank, the counselor and the expert craftsman and the skillful enchanter." 
Isaiah3:4 And I will make boys their princes, and with childishness shall they rule over them [with outrage instead of justice]." 
Isaiah3:5 And the people shall be oppressed, each one by another, and each one by his neighbor; the child shall behave himself proudly and with insolence against the old man, and the lowborn against the honorable [person of rank]." 
Isaiah3:6 When a man shall take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying, You have a robe, you shall be our judge and ruler, and this heap of ruins shall be under your control," 
Isaiah3:7 In that day he will answer, saying, I will not be a healer and one who binds up; I am not a physician. For in my house is neither bread nor clothing; you shall not make me judge and ruler of the people." 
Isaiah3:8 For Jerusalem is ruined and Judah is fallen, because their speech and their deeds are against the Lord, to provoke the eyes of His glory and defy His glorious presence." 
Isaiah3:9 Their respecting of persons and showing of partiality witnesses against them; they proclaim their sin like Sodom; they do not hide it. Woe to them! For they have brought evil [as a reward upon themselves]. 
Isaiah3:10 Say to the righteous that it shall be well with them, for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds." 
Isaiah3:11 Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with them, for what their hands have done shall be done to them." 
Isaiah3:12 As for My people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O My people, your leaders cause you to err, and they confuse (destroy and swallow up) the course of your paths." 
Isaiah3:13 The Lord stands up to contend, and stands to judge the peoples and His people." 
Isaiah3:14 The Lord enters into judgment with the elders of His people and their princes: For [by your exactions and oppressions you have robbed the people and ruined the country] you have devoured the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses. 
Isaiah3:15 What do you mean by crushing My people and grinding the faces of the poor? says the Lord God of hosts. 
Isaiah3:16 Moreover, the Lord said, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks and with undisciplined (flirtatious and alluring) eyes, tripping along with mincing and affected gait, and making a tinkling noise with [the anklets on] their feet," 
Isaiah3:17 Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the heads of the daughters of Zion [making them bald], and the Lord will cause them to be [taken as captives and to suffer the indignity of being] stripped naked." 
Isaiah3:18 In that day the Lord will take away the finery of their tinkling anklets, the caps of network, the crescent head ornaments," 
Isaiah3:19 The pendants, the bracelets or chains, and the spangled face veils and scarfs," 
Isaiah3:20 The headbands, the short ankle chains [attached from one foot to the other to insure a measured gait], the sashes, the perfume boxes, the amulets or charms [suspended from the ears or neck]," 
Isaiah3:21 The signet rings and nose rings," 
Isaiah3:22 The festal robes, the cloaks, the stoles and shawls, and the handbags," 
Isaiah3:23 The hand mirrors, the fine linen [undergarments], the turbans, and the [whole body-enveloping] veils." 
Isaiah3:24 And it shall come to pass that instead of the sweet odor of spices there shall be the stench of rottenness; and instead of a girdle, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a rich robe, a girding of sackcloth; and searing [of captives by the scorching heat] instead of beauty." 
Isaiah3:25 Your men shall fall by the sword, and your mighty men in battle." 
Isaiah3:26 And [Jerusalem's] gates shall lament and mourn [as those who wail for the dead]; and she, being ruined and desolate, shall sit upon the ground." 
Isaiah4:1 AND IN that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We will eat our own bread and provide our own apparel; only let us be called by your name to take away our reproach [of being unmarried]." 
Isaiah4:2 In that day the Branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land shall be excellent and lovely to those of Israel who have escaped. [Jer. 23:5; 33:15; Zech. 3:8; 6:12.]" 
Isaiah4:3 And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who is recorded for life in Jerusalem and for eternal life, [Joel 3:17; Phil. 4:3.]" 
Isaiah4:3 And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who is recorded for life in Jerusalem and for eternal life, [Joel 3:17; Phil. 4:3.]" 
Isaiah4:4 After the Lord has washed away the [moral] filth of the daughters of Zion [pride, vanity, haughtiness] and has purged the bloodstains of Jerusalem from the midst of it by the spirit and blast of judgment and by the spirit and blast of burning and sifting." 
Isaiah4:5 And the Lord will create over the whole site, over every dwelling place of Mount Zion and over her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day and the shining of a flaming fire by night; for over all the glory shall be a canopy (a defense of divine love and protection)." 
Isaiah4:6 And there shall be a pavilion for shade in the daytime from the heat, and for a place of refuge and a shelter from storm and from rain." 
Isaiah5:1 LET ME [as God's representative] sing of and for my greatly Beloved [God, the Son] a tender song of my Beloved concerning His vineyard [His chosen people]. My greatly Beloved had a vineyard on a very fruitful hill. [S. of Sol. 6:3; Matt. 21:33-40.]" 
Isaiah5:2 And He dug and trenched the ground and gathered out the stones from it and planted it with the choicest vine and built a tower in the midst of it and hewed out a winepress in it. And He looked for it to bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes." 
Isaiah5:3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, between Me and My vineyard [My people, says the Lord]." 
Isaiah5:4 What more could have been done for My vineyard that I have not done in it? When I looked for it to bring forth grapes, why did it yield wild grapes?" 
Isaiah5:5 And now I will tell you what I will do to My vineyard: I will take away its hedge, and it shall be eaten and burned up; and I will break down its wall, and it shall be trodden down [by enemies]." 
Isaiah5:6 And I will lay it waste; it shall not be pruned or cultivated, but there shall come up briers and thorns. I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it." 
Isaiah5:7 For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah His pleasant planting [the plant of His delight]. And He looked for justice, but behold, [He saw] oppression and bloodshed; [He looked] for righteousness (for uprightness and right standing with God), but behold, [He heard] a cry [of oppression and distress]!" 
Isaiah5:8 Woe to those who join house to house [and by violently expelling the poorer occupants enclose large acreage] and join field to field until there is no place for others and you are made to dwell alone in the midst of the land! 
Isaiah5:9 In my [Isaiah's] ears the Lord of hosts said, Of a truth many houses shall be desolate, even great and beautiful ones shall be without inhabitant." 
Isaiah5:10 For ten acres of vineyard shall yield only about eight gallons, and ten bushels of seed will produce but one bushel." 
Isaiah5:11 Woe unto those who rise early in the morning, that they may pursue strong drink, who tarry late into the night till wine inflames them!" 
Isaiah5:12 They have lyre and harp, tambourine and flute and wine at their feasts, but they do not regard the deeds of the Lord, neither do they consider the operation of His hands [in mercy and in judgment]." 
Isaiah5:13 Therefore My people go into captivity [to their enemies] without knowing it and because they have no knowledge [of God]. And their honorable men [their glory] are famished, and their common people are parched with thirst." 
Isaiah5:14 Therefore Sheol (the unseen state, the realm of the dead) has enlarged its appetite and opened its mouth without measure; and [Jerusalem's] nobility and her multitude and her pomp and tumult and [the drunken reveler] who exults in her descend into it." 
Isaiah5:15 And the common man is bowed down, and the great man is brought low, and the eyes of the haughty are humbled." 
Isaiah5:16 But the Lord of hosts is exalted in justice, and God, the Holy One, shows Himself holy in righteousness and through righteous judgments." 
Isaiah5:17 Then shall the lambs feed [among the ruins] as in their own pasture, and [among] the desolate places of the [exiled] rich shall sojourners and aliens eat." 
Isaiah5:18 Woe to those who draw [calamity] with cords of iniquity and falsehood, who bring punishment to themselves with a cart rope of wickedness," 
Isaiah5:19 Who say, Let [the Holy One] make haste and speed His [prophesied] vengeance, that we may see it; and let the purpose of the Holy One of Israel draw near and come, that we may know it!" 
Isaiah5:20 Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!" 
Isaiah5:21 Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and prudent and shrewd in their own sight! 
Isaiah5:22 Woe to those who are mighty heroes at drinking wine and men of strength in mixing alcoholic drinks!, 
Isaiah5:23 Who justify and acquit the guilty for a bribe, but take away the rights of the innocent and righteous from them!" 
Isaiah5:24 Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble, and as the dry grass sinks down in the flame, so their root shall be like rottenness and their blossom shall go up like fine dust,because they have rejected and cast away the law and the teaching of the Lord of hosts and have not believed but have treated scornfully and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah5:25 Therefore is the anger of the Lord kindled against His people, and He has stretched forth His hand against them and has smitten them. And the mountains trembled, and their dead bodies were like dung and sweepings in the midst of the streets. For all this, His anger is not turned away, but His hand is still stretched out [in judgment]." 
Isaiah5:26 And He will lift up a signal to call together a hostile people from afar [to execute His judgment on Judea], and will hiss for them from the end of the earth [as bees are hissed from their hives], and behold, they shall come with speed, swiftly!" 
Isaiah5:27 None is weary or stumbles among them, none slumbers or sleeps; nor is the girdle of their loins loosed or the latchet (thong) of their shoes broken;" 
Isaiah5:28 Their arrows are sharp, and all their bows bent; their horses' hoofs seem like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind." 
Isaiah5:29 Their roaring is like that of a lioness, they roar like young lions; they growl and seize their prey and carry it safely away, and there is none to deliver it." 
Isaiah5:30 And in that day they [the army from afar] shall roar against [the Jews] like the roaring of the sea. And if one looks to the land, behold, there is darkness and distress; and the light [itself] will be darkened by the clouds of it." 
Isaiah6:1 IN THE year that King Uzziah died, [in a vision] I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the skirts of His train filled the [most holy part of the] temple. [John 12:41.]" 
Isaiah6:2 Above Him stood the seraphim; each had six wings: with two [each] covered his [own] face, and with two [each] covered his feet, and with two [each] flew." 
Isaiah6:3 And one cried to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory!" 
Isaiah6:4 And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who cried, and the house was filled with smoke." 
Isaiah6:5 Then said I, Woe is me! For I am undone and ruined, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts!" 
Isaiah6:6 Then flew one of the seraphim [heavenly beings] to me, having a live coal in his hand which he had taken with tongs from off the altar;" 
Isaiah6:7 And with it he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips; your iniquity and guilt are taken away, and your sin is completely atoned for and forgiven." 
Isaiah6:8 Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for Us? Then said I, Here am I; send me." 
Isaiah6:9 And He said, Go and tell this people, Hear and hear continually, but understand not; and see and see continually, but do not apprehend with your mind." 
Isaiah6:10 Make the heart of this people fat; and make their ears heavy and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn again and be healed." 
Isaiah6:11 Then said I, Lord, how long? And He answered, Until cities lie waste without inhabitant and houses without man, and the land is utterly desolate," 
Isaiah6:12 And the Lord removes [His] people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land." 
Isaiah6:13 And though a tenth [of the people] remain in the land, it will be for their destruction [eaten up and burned] like a terebinth tree or like an oak whose stump and substance remain when they are felled or have cast their leaves. The holy seed [the elect remnant] is the stump and substance [of Israel]." 
Isaiah7:1 IN THE days of Ahaz son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel went up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but they could not conquer it." 
Isaiah7:2 And the house of David [Judah] was told, Syria is allied with Ephraim [Israel]. And the heart [of Ahaz] and the hearts of his people trembled and shook, as the trees of the forest tremble and shake with the wind." 
Isaiah7:3 Then said the Lord to Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Judah's King Ahaz, you and your son Shear-jashub [a remnant shall return], at the end of the aqueduct or canal of the Upper Pool on the highway to the Fuller's Field;" 
Isaiah7:4 And say to him, Take heed and be quiet; fear not, neither be fainthearted because of these two stumps of smoking firebrands,at the fierce anger of [the Syrian King] Rezin and Syria and of the son of Remaliah [Pekah, usurper of the throne of Israel]." 
Isaiah7:5 Because Syria, Ephraim [Israel], and the son of Remaliah have purposed evil against you [Judah], saying," 
Isaiah7:6 Let us go up against Judah and harass and terrify it; and let us cleave it asunder [each of us taking a portion], and set a [vassal] king in the midst of it, namely the son of Tabeel," 
Isaiah7:7 Thus says the Lord God: It shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass." 
Isaiah7:8 For the head [the capital] of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is [King] Rezin. Within sixty-five years Ephraim will be broken to pieces so that it will no longer be a people." 
Isaiah7:9 And the head (the capital) of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah's son [Pekah]. If you will not believe and trust and rely [on God and on the words of God's prophet instead of Assyria], surely you will not be established nor will you remain." 
Isaiah7:10 Moreover, the Lord spoke again to King Ahaz, saying," 
Isaiah7:11 Ask for yourself a sign (a token or proof) of the Lord your God [one that will convince you that God has spoken and will keep His word]; ask it either in the depth below or in the height above [let it be as deep as Sheol or as high as heaven]. 
Isaiah7:12 But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord." 
Isaiah7:13 And [Isaiah] said, Hear then, O house of David! Is it a small thing for you to weary and try the patience of men, but will you weary and try the patience of my God also?" 
Isaiah7:14 Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign: Behold, the young woman who is unmarried and a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel [God with us]. [Isa. 9:6; Jer. 31:22; Mic. 5:3-5; Matt. 1:22, 23.]" 
Isaiah7:15 Butter and curds and wild honey shall he eat when he knows [enough] to refuse the evil and choose the good. 
Isaiah7:16 For before the child shall know [enough] to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land [Canaan] whose two kings you abhor and of whom you are in sickening dread shall be forsaken [both Ephraim and Syria]. [Isa. 7:2.]" 
Isaiah7:17 The Lord shall bring upon you and upon your people and upon your father's house such days as have not come since the day that Ephraim [the ten northern tribes] departed from Judah,even the king of Assyria. 
Isaiah7:18 And in that day the Lord shall whistle for the fly [the numerous and troublesome foe] that is in the whole extent of the canal country of Egypt and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria. 
Isaiah7:19 And these [enemies like flies and bees] shall come and shall rest all of them in the desolate and rugged valleys and deep ravines and in the clefts of the rocks, and on all the thornbushes and on all the pastures." 
Isaiah7:20 In the same day [will the people of Judah be utterly stripped of belongings], the Lord will shave with the razor that is hired from the parts beyond the River [Euphrates],even with the king of Assyria,[that razor will shave] the head and the hair of the legs, and it shall also consume the beard [leaving Judah with open shame and scorn]. [II Kings 16:7, 8; 18:13-16.]" 
Isaiah7:21 And [because of the desolation brought on by the invaders] in that day, a man will [be so poor that he will] keep alive only a young milk cow and two sheep." 
Isaiah7:22 And because of the abundance of milk that they will give, he will eat butter and curds, for [only] butter and curds and [wild] honey [no vegetables] shall everyone eat who is left in the land [these products provided from the extensive pastures and the plentiful wild flowers upon which the bees depend]." 
Isaiah7:23 And in that day, in every place where there used to be a thousand vines worth a thousand silver shekels, there will be briers and thorns." 
Isaiah7:24 With arrows and with bows shall a man come [to hunt] there, because all the land will be briers and thorns." 
Isaiah7:25 And as for all the hills that were formerly cultivated with mattock and hoe, you will not go there for fear of briers and thorns; but they will become a place where oxen are let loose to pasture and where sheep tread." 
Isaiah8:1 THEN THE Lord said to me, Take a large tablet [of wood, metal, or stone] and write upon it with a graving tool and in ordinary characters [which the humblest man can read]: Belonging to Maher-shalal-hash-baz [they (the Assyrians) hasten to the spoil (of Syria and Israel), they speed to the prey]." 
Isaiah8:2 And I took faithful witnesses to record and attest [this prophecy] for me, Uriah the priest and Zechariah son of Jeberechiah." 
Isaiah8:2 And I took faithful witnesses to record and attest [this prophecy] for me, Uriah the priest and Zechariah son of Jeberechiah." 
Isaiah8:3 And I approached [my wife] the prophetess, and when she had conceived and borne a son, the Lord said to me, Call his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz [as a continual reminder to the people of the prophecy]," 
Isaiah8:4 For before the child knows how to say, My father or my mother, the riches of Damascus [Syria's capital] and the spoil of Samaria [Israel's capital] shall be carried away before the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah8:5 The Lord spoke to me yet again and said," 
Isaiah8:6 Because this people [Israel and Judah] have refused and despised the waters of Shiloah [Siloam, the only perennial fountain of Jerusalem, and symbolic of God's protection and sustaining power] that go gently, and rejoice in and with Rezin [the king of Syria] and Remaliah's son [Pekah the king of Israel]," 
Isaiah8:7 Now therefore, behold, the Lord brings upon them the waters of the River [Euphrates], strong and many,even the king of Assyria and all the glory [of his gorgeous retinue]; and it will rise over all its channels, brooks, valleys, and canals and extend far beyond its banks; [Isa. 7:17.]" 
Isaiah8:8 And it will sweep on into Judah; it will overflow and go over [the hills], reaching even [but only] to the neck [of which Jerusalem is the head], and the outstretched wings [of the armies of Assyria] shall fill the breadth of Your land, O Immanuel [Messiah, God is with us]! [Num. 14:9; Ps. 46:7.]" 
Isaiah8:9 Make an uproar and be broken in pieces, O you peoples [rage, raise the war cry, do your worst, and be utterly dismayed]! Give ear, all you [our enemies] of far countries. Gird yourselves [for war], and be thrown into consternation! Gird yourselves, and be [utterly] dismayed!" 
Isaiah8:10 Take counsel together [against Judah], but it shall come to nought; speak the word, but it will not stand, for God is with us [Immanuel]!" 
Isaiah8:11 For the Lord spoke thus to me with His strong hand [upon me], and warned and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying," 
Isaiah8:12 Do not call conspiracy [or hard, or holy] all that this people will call conspiracy [or hard, or holy]; neither be in fear of what they fear, nor [make others afraid and] in dread." 
Isaiah8:13 The Lord of hosts,regard Him as holy and honor His holy name [by regarding Him as your only hope of safety], and let Him be your fear and let Him be your dread [lest you offend Him by your fear of man and distrust of Him]." 
Isaiah8:14 And He shall be a sanctuary [a sacred and indestructible asylum to those who reverently fear and trust in Him]; but He shall be a Stone of stumbling and a Rock of offense to both the houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. [Isa. 28:6; Rom. 9:33; I Pet. 2:6-8.]" 
Isaiah8:15 And many among them shall stumble thereon; and they shall fall and be broken, and be snared and taken." 
Isaiah8:16 Bind up the testimony, seal the law and the teaching among my [Isaiah's] disciples." 
Isaiah8:17 And I will wait for the Lord, Who is hiding His face from the house of Jacob; and I will look for and hope in Him." 
Isaiah8:18 Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are signs and wonders [that are to take place] in Israel from the Lord of hosts, Who dwells on Mount Zion." 
Isaiah8:19 And when the people [instead of putting their trust in God] shall say to you, Consult for direction mediums and wizards who chirp and mutter, should not a people seek and consult their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living?" 
Isaiah8:20 [Direct such people] to the teaching and to the testimony! If their teachings are not in accord with this word, it is surely because there is no dawn and no morning for them." 
Isaiah8:21 And they [who consult mediums and wizards] shall pass through [the land] sorely distressed and hungry; and when they are hungry, they will fret, and will curse by their king and their God; and whether they look upward" 
Isaiah8:22 Or look to the earth, they will behold only distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish, and into thick darkness and widespread, obscure night they shall be driven away." 
Isaiah9:1 BUT [in the midst of judgment there is the promise and the certainty of the Lord's deliverance and] there shall be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time [the Lord] brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time He will make it glorious, by the way of the Sea [of Galilee, the land] beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations." 
Isaiah9:2 The people who walked in darkness have seen a great Light; those who dwelt in the land of intense darkness and the shadow of death, upon them has the Light shined. [Isa. 42:6; Matt. 4:15, 16.]" 
Isaiah9:3 You [O Lord] have multiplied the nation and increased their joy; they rejoice before You like the joy in harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil [of battle]." 
Isaiah9:4 For the yoke of [Israel's] burden, and the staff or rod for [goading] their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor, You have broken as in the day of [Gideon with] Midian. [Judg. 7:8-22.]" 
Isaiah9:5 For every [tramping] warrior's war boots and all his armor in the battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood shall be burned as fuel for the fire. 
Isaiah9:6 For to us a Child is born, to us a Son is given; and the government shall be upon His shoulder, and His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father [of Eternity], Prince of Peace. [Isa. 25:1; 40:9-11; Matt. 28:18; Luke 2:11.]" 
Isaiah9:7 Of the increase of His government and of peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from the [latter] time forth, even forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. [Dan. 2:44; I Cor. 15:25-28; Heb. 1:8.]" 
Isaiah9:8 The Lord has sent a word against Jacob [the ten tribes], and it has lighted upon Israel [the ten tribes, the kingdom of Ephraim]." 
Isaiah9:9 And all the people shall know it,even Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria [its capital],who said in pride and stoutness of heart," 
Isaiah9:10 The bricks have fallen, but we will build [all the better] with hewn stones; the sycamores have been cut down, but we will put [costlier] cedars in their place." 
Isaiah9:11 Therefore the Lord has stirred up the adversaries [the Assyrians] of Rezin [king of Syria] against [Ephraim], and He will stir up their enemies and arm and join them together," 
Isaiah9:12 The Syrians [compelled to fight with their enemies, going] before [on the east] and the Philistines behind [on the west]; and they will devour Israel with open mouth. For all this, [God's] anger is not [then] turned away, but His hand is still stretched out [in judgment]." 
Isaiah9:13 Yet the people turn not to Him Who smote them, neither do they seek [inquire for or require as their vital need] the Lord of hosts." 
Isaiah9:14 Therefore the Lord will cut off from Israel head and tail [the highest and the lowest],[high] palm branch and [low] rush in one day; 
Isaiah9:15 The elderly and honored man, he is the head; and the prophet who teaches lies, he is the tail." 
Isaiah9:16 For they who lead this people cause them to err, and they who are led [astray] by them are swallowed up (destroyed)." 
Isaiah9:17 Therefore the Lord will not rejoice over their young men, neither will He have compassion on their fatherless and widows, for everyone is profane and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this, [God's] anger is not turned away, but His hand is still stretched out [in judgment]." 
Isaiah9:18 For wickedness burns like a fire; it devours the briers and thorns, and it kindles in the thickets of the forest; they roll upward in a column of smoke." 
Isaiah9:19 Through the wrath of the Lord of hosts the land is darkened and burned up, and the people are like fuel for the fire; no man spares his brother." 
Isaiah9:20 They snatch in discord on the right hand, but are still hungry [their cruelty not diminished]; and they devour and destroy on the left hand, but are not satisfied. Each devours and destroys his own flesh [and blood] or his neighbor's." 
Isaiah9:21 Manasseh [thirsts for the blood of his brother] Ephraim, and Ephraim [for that of] Manasseh; but together they are against Judah. For all this, [God's] anger is not turned away, but His hand is still stretched out [in judgment]." 
Isaiah10:1 WOE TO those [judges] who issue unrighteous decrees, and to the magistrates who keep causing unjust and oppressive decisions to be recorded," 
Isaiah10:2 To turn aside the needy from justice and to make plunder of the rightful claims of the poor of My people, that widows may be their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey!" 
Isaiah10:3 And what will you do in the day of visitation [of God's wrath], and in the desolation which shall come from afar? To whom will you flee for help? And where will you deposit [for safekeeping] your wealth and with whom leave your glory?" 
Isaiah10:4 Without Me they shall bow down among the prisoners, and they shall fall [overwhelmed] under the heaps of the slain [on the battlefield]. For all this, [God's] anger is not turned away, but His hand is still stretched out [in judgment]." 
Isaiah10:5 Woe to the Assyrian, the rod of My anger, the staff in whose hand is My indignation and fury [against Israel's disobedience]!" 
Isaiah10:6 I send [the Assyrian] against a hypocritical and godless nation and against the people of My wrath; I command him to take the spoil and to seize the prey and to tread them down like the mire in the streets. 
Isaiah10:7 However, this is not his intention [nor is the Assyrian aware that he is doing this at My bidding], neither does his mind so think and plan; but it is in his mind to destroy and cut off many nations." 
Isaiah10:8 For [the Assyrian] says, Are not my officers all either [subjugated] kings or their equal?" 
Isaiah10:9 Is not Calno [of Babylonia conquered] like Carchemish [on the Euphrates]? Is not Hamath [in Upper Syria] like Arpad [her neighbor]? Is not Samaria [in Israel] like Damascus [in Syria]? [Have any of these cities been able to resist Assyria? Not one!] 
Isaiah10:10 As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols [which were unable to defend them,] whose graven images were more to be feared and dreaded and more mighty than those of Jerusalem and of Samaria," 
Isaiah10:11 Shall I not be able to do to Jerusalem and her images as I have done to Samaria and her idols? [says the Assyrian] 
Isaiah10:12 Therefore when the Lord has completed all His work [of chastisement and purification to be executed] on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, it shall be that He will inflict punishment on the fruit [the thoughts, words, and deeds] of the stout and arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the haughtiness of his pride." 
Isaiah10:13 For [the Assyrian king] has said, I have done it solely by the power of my own hand and wisdom, for I have insight and understanding. I have removed the boundaries of the peoples and have robbed their treasures; and like a bull I have brought down those who sat on thrones and the inhabitants." 
Isaiah10:14 And my hand has found like a nest the wealth of the people; and as one gathers eggs that are forsaken, so I have gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved its wing, or that opened its mouth or chirped." 
Isaiah10:15 Shall the ax boast itself against him who chops with it? Or shall the saw magnify itself against him who wields it back and forth? As if a rod should wield those who lift it up, or as if a staff should lift itself up as if it were not wood [but a man of God]!" 
Isaiah10:16 Therefore will the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send leanness among [the Assyrian's] fat ones; and instead of his glory or under it He will kindle a burning like the burning of fire." 
Isaiah10:17 And the Light of Israel shall become a fire and His Holy One a flame, and it will burn and devour [the Assyrian's] thorns and briers in one day. [II Kings 19:35-37; Isa. 31:8-9; 37:36.]" 
Isaiah10:18 [The Lord] will consume the glory of the [Assyrian's] forest and of his fruitful field, both soul and body; and it shall be as when a sick man pines away or a standard-bearer faints." 
Isaiah10:19 And the remnant of the trees of his forest shall be few, so that a child may make a list of them." 
Isaiah10:20 And it shall be in that day that the remnant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more lean upon him who smote them, but will lean upon the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth." 
Isaiah10:21 A remnant will return [Shear-jashub, name of Isaiah's son], a remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God." 
Isaiah10:22 For though your population, O Israel, be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of it will return [and survive]. The [fully completed] destruction is decreed (decided upon and brought to an issue); it overflows with justice and righteousness [the infliction of just punishment]. [Rom. 9:27, 28.]" 
Isaiah10:23 For the Lord, the Lord of hosts, will make a full end, whatever is determined or decreed [in Israel], in the midst of all the earth." 
Isaiah10:24 Therefore thus says the Lord, the Lord of hosts, O My people who dwell in Zion, do not be afraid of the Assyrian, who smites you with a rod and lifts up his staff against you, as [the king of] Egypt did. [Exod. 5.]" 
Isaiah10:25 For yet a little while and My indignation against you shall be accomplished, and My anger shall be directed to destruction [of the Assyrian]." 
Isaiah10:26 And the Lord of hosts shall stir up and brandish a scourge against them as when He smote Midian at the rock of Oreb; and as His rod was over the [Red] Sea, so shall He lift it up as He did in [the flight from] Egypt. [Exod. 14:26-31; Judg. 7:24, 25.]" 
Isaiah10:27 And it shall be in that day that the burden of [the Assyrian] shall depart from your shoulders, and his yoke from your neck. The yoke shall be destroyed because of fatness [which prevents it from going around your neck]. [Deut. 32:15.]" 
Isaiah10:28 [The Assyrian with his army comes to Judah]. He arrives at Aiath; he passes through Migron; at Michmash he gets rid of his baggage [by storing it]. 
Isaiah10:29 They go through the pass, they make Geba their camping place for the night; Ramah is afraid and trembles, Gibeah [the city] of [King] Saul flees." 
Isaiah10:30 Cry aloud [in consternation], O Daughter of Gallim! Hearken, O Laishah! [Answer her] O you poor Anathoth!" 
Isaiah10:31 Madmenah is in flight; the inhabitants of Gebim seize their belongings and make their households flee for safety. 
Isaiah10:32 This very day [the Assyrian] will halt at Nob [the city of priests], shaking his fist at the mountain of the Daughter of Zion, at the hill of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah10:33 [But just when the Assyrian is in sight of his goal] behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, will lop off the beautiful boughs with terrorizing force; the high in stature will be hewn down and the lofty will be brought low." 
Isaiah10:34 And He will cut down the thickets of the forest with an ax, and Lebanon [the Assyrian] with its majestic trees shall fall by the Mighty One and mightily. [Gen. 49:24; Isa. 9:6.]" 
Isaiah11:1 AND THERE shall come forth a Shoot out of the stock of Jesse [David's father], and a Branch out of his roots shall grow and bear fruit. [Isa. 4:2; Matt. 2:23; Rev. 5:5; 22:16.]" 
Isaiah11:2 And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon Him,the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and of the reverential and obedient fear of the Lord," 
Isaiah11:3 And shall make Him of quick understanding, and His delight shall be in the reverential and obedient fear of the Lord. And He shall not judge by the sight of His eyes, neither decide by the hearing of His ears;" 
Isaiah11:4 But with righteousness and justice shall He judge the poor and decide with fairness for the meek, the poor, and the downtrodden of the earth; and He shall smite the earth and the oppressor with the rod of His mouth, and with the breath of His lips He shall slay the wicked." 
Isaiah11:5 And righteousness shall be the girdle of His waist and faithfulness the girdle of His loins. 
Isaiah11:6 And the wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid, and the calf and the young lion and the fatted domestic animal together; and a little child shall lead them." 
Isaiah11:7 And the cow and the bear shall feed side by side, their young shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox." 
Isaiah11:8 And the sucking child shall play over the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the adder's den." 
Isaiah11:9 They shall not hurt or destroy in all My holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea." 
Isaiah11:10 And it shall be in that day that the Root of Jesse shall stand as a signal for the peoples; of Him shall the nations inquire and seek knowledge, and His dwelling shall be glory [His rest glorious]! [John 12:32.]" 
Isaiah11:11 And in that day the Lord shall again lift up His hand a second time to recover (acquire and deliver) the remnant of His people which is left, from Assyria, from Lower Egypt, from Pathros, from Ethiopia, from Elam [in Persia], from Shinar [Babylonia], from Hamath [in Upper Syria], and from the countries bordering on the [Mediterranean] Sea. [Jer. 23:5-8.]" 
Isaiah11:12 And He will raise up a signal for the nations and will assemble the outcasts of Israel and will gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. 
Isaiah11:13 The envy and jealousy of Ephraim also shall depart, and they who vex and harass Judah from outside or inside shall be cut off; Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex and harass Ephraim." 
Isaiah11:14 But [with united forces Ephraim and Judah] will swoop down upon the shoulders of the Philistines' [land sloping] toward the west; together they will strip the people on the east [the Arabs]. They will lay their hands upon Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites will obey them." 
Isaiah11:15 And the Lord will utterly destroy (doom and dry up) the tongue of the Egyptian sea [the west fork of the Red Sea]; and with His [mighty] scorching wind He will wave His hand over the river [Nile] and will smite it into seven channels and will cause men to cross over dry-shod. 
Isaiah11:16 And there shall be a highway from Assyria for the remnant left of His people, as there was for Israel when they came up out of the land of Egypt." 
Isaiah12:1 AND IN that day you will say, I will give thanks to You, O Lord; for though You were angry with me, Your anger has turned away, and You comfort me." 
Isaiah12:2 Behold, God, my salvation! I will trust and not be afraid, for the Lord God is my strength and song; yes, He has become my salvation." 
Isaiah12:3 Therefore with joy will you draw water from the wells of salvation. 
Isaiah12:4 And in that day you will say, Give thanks to the Lord, call upon His name and by means of His name [in solemn entreaty]; declare and make known His deeds among the peoples of the earth, proclaim that His name is exalted!" 
Isaiah12:5 Sing praises to the Lord, for He has done excellent things [gloriously]; let this be made known to all the earth." 
Isaiah12:6 Cry aloud and shout joyfully, you women and inhabitants of Zion, for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah13:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Babylon which Isaiah son of Amoz saw [with prophetic insight]:" 
Isaiah13:2 Raise up a signal banner upon the high and bare mountain, summon them [the Medes and Persians] with loud voice and beckoning hand that they may enter the gates of the [Babylonian] nobles." 
Isaiah13:3 I Myself [says the Lord] have commanded My designated ones and have summoned My mighty men to execute My anger, even My proudly exulting ones [the Medes and Persians],those who are made to triumph for My honor." 
Isaiah13:4 Hark, the uproar of a multitude in the mountains, like that of a great people! The noise of the tumult of the kingdoms of the nations gathering together! The Lord of hosts is mustering the host for the battle." 
Isaiah13:5 They come from a distant country, from the uttermost part of the heavens [the far east],even the Lord and the weapons of His indignation,to seize and destroy the whole land. [Ps. 19:4-6; Isa. 5:26.]" 
Isaiah13:6 Wail, for the day of the Lord is at hand; as destruction from the Almighty and Sufficient One [Shaddai] will it come! [Gen. 17:1.]" 
Isaiah13:7 Therefore will all hands be feeble, and every man's heart will melt." 
Isaiah13:8 And they [of Babylon] shall be dismayed and terrified, pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they shall be in pain as a woman in childbirth. They will gaze stupefied and aghast at one another, their faces will be aflame [from the effects of the unprecedented warfare]." 
Isaiah13:9 Behold, the day of the Lord is coming!,fierce, with wrath and raging anger,to make the land and the [whole] earth a desolation and to destroy out of it its sinners. [Isa. 2:10-22; Rev. 19:11-21.]" 
Isaiah13:10 For the stars of the heavens and their constellations will not give their light; the sun will be darkened at its rising and the moon will not shed its light. 
Isaiah13:11 And I, the Lord, will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their guilt and iniquity; I will cause the arrogance of the proud to cease and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible and the boasting of the violent and ruthless." 
Isaiah13:12 I will make a man more rare than fine gold, and mankind scarcer than the pure gold of Ophir." 
Isaiah13:13 Therefore I will make the heavens tremble; and the earth shall be shaken out of its place at the wrath of the Lord of hosts in the day of His fierce anger. 
Isaiah13:14 And like the chased roe or gazelle, and like sheep that no man gathers, each [foreign resident] will turn to his own people, and each will flee to his own land." 
Isaiah13:15 Everyone who is found will be thrust through, and everyone who is connected with the slain and is caught will fall by the sword." 
Isaiah13:16 Their infants also will be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses will be plundered and their wives ravished. 
Isaiah13:17 Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, who have no regard for silver and do not delight in gold [and thus cannot be bribed]." 
Isaiah13:18 Their bows will cut down the young men [of Babylon]; and they will have no pity on the fruit of the womb, their eyes will not spare children." 
Isaiah13:19 And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldeans' pride, shall be like Sodom and Gomorrah when God overthrew them." 
Isaiah13:20 [Babylon] shall never be inhabited or dwelt in from generation to generation; neither shall the Arab pitch his tent there, nor shall the shepherds make their sheepfolds there." 
Isaiah13:21 But wild beasts of the desert will lie down there, and the people's houses will be full of dolefully howling creatures; and ostriches will dwell there, and wild goats [like demons] will dance there." 
Isaiah13:22 And wolves and howling creatures will cry and answer in the deserted castles, and jackals in the pleasant palaces. And [Babylon's] time has nearly come, and her days will not be prolonged." 
Isaiah14:1 FOR THE Lord will have mercy on Jacob [the captive Jews in Babylon] and will again choose Israel and set them in their own land; and foreigners [who are proselytes] will join them and will cleave to the house of Jacob (Israel). [Esth. 8:17.] 
Isaiah14:2 And the peoples [of Babylonia] shall take them and bring them to their own country [of Judea] and help restore them. And the house of Israel will possess [the foreigners who prefer to stay with] them in the land of the Lord as male and female servants; and they will take captive [not by physical but by moral might] those whose captives they have been, and they will rule over their [former] oppressors. [Ezra 1.]" 
Isaiah14:2 And the peoples [of Babylonia] shall take them and bring them to their own country [of Judea] and help restore them. And the house of Israel will possess [the foreigners who prefer to stay with] them in the land of the Lord as male and female servants; and they will take captive [not by physical but by moral might] those whose captives they have been, and they will rule over their [former] oppressors. [Ezra 1.]" 
Isaiah14:3 When the Lord has given you rest from your sorrow and pain and from your trouble and unrest and from the hard service with which you were made to serve," 
Isaiah14:4 You shall take up this [taunting] parable against the king of Babylon and say, How the oppressor has stilled [the restless insolence]! The golden and exacting city has ceased!" 
Isaiah14:5 The Lord has broken the staff of the wicked, the scepter of the [tyrant] rulers," 
Isaiah14:6 Who smote the peoples in anger with incessant blows and trod down the nations in wrath with unrelenting persecution,[until] he who smote is persecuted and no one hinders any more. 
Isaiah14:7 The whole earth is at rest and is quiet; they break forth into singing. 
Isaiah14:8 Yes, the fir trees and cypresses rejoice at you [O kings of Babylon], even the cedars of Lebanon, saying, Since you have been laid low, no woodcutter comes up against us." 
Isaiah14:9 Sheol (Hades, the place of the dead) below is stirred up to meet you at your coming [O tyrant Babylonian rulers]; it stirs up the shades of the dead to greet you,even all the chief ones of the earth; it raises from their thrones [in astonishment at your humbled condition] all the kings of the nations." 
Isaiah14:10 All of them will [tauntingly] say to you, Have you also become weak as we are? Have you become like us?" 
Isaiah14:11 Your pomp and magnificence are brought down to Sheol (the underworld), along with the sound of your harps; the maggots [which prey upon dead bodies] are spread out under you and worms cover you [O Babylonian rulers]." 
Isaiah14:12 How have you fallen from heaven, O light-bringer and daystar, son of the morning! How you have been cut down to the ground, you who weakened and laid low the nations [O blasphemous, satanic king of Babylon!]" 
Isaiah14:13 And you said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven; I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I will sit upon the mount of assembly in the uttermost north." 
Isaiah14:14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High. 
Isaiah14:15 Yet you shall be brought down to Sheol (Hades), to the innermost recesses of the pit (the region of the dead)." 
Isaiah14:16 Those who see you will gaze at you and consider you, saying, Is this the man who made the earth tremble, who shook kingdoms?," 
Isaiah14:17 Who made the world like a wilderness and overthrew its cities, who would not permit his prisoners to return home?" 
Isaiah14:18 All the kings of the nations, all of them lie sleeping in glorious array, each one in his own sepulcher." 
Isaiah14:19 But you are cast away from your tomb like a loathed growth or premature birth or an abominable branch [of the family] and like the raiment of the slain; and you are clothed with the slain, those thrust through with the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit [into which carcasses are thrown], like a dead body trodden underfoot." 
Isaiah14:20 You shall not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land and have slain your people. May the descendants of evildoers nevermore be named!" 
Isaiah14:21 Prepare a slaughtering place for his sons because of the guilt and iniquity of their fathers, so that they may not rise, possess the earth, and fill the face of the world with cities." 
Isaiah14:22 And I will rise up against them, says the Lord of hosts, and cut off from Babylon name and remnant, and son and son's son, says the Lord." 
Isaiah14:23 I will also make it a possession of the hedgehog and porcupine, and of marshes and pools of water, and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction, says the Lord of hosts." 
Isaiah14:24 The Lord of hosts has sworn, saying, Surely, as I have thought and planned, so shall it come to pass, and as I have purposed, so shall it stand," 
Isaiah14:25 That I will break the Assyrian in My land, and upon My mountains I will tread him underfoot. Then shall the [Assyrian's] yoke depart from [the people of Judah], and his burden depart from their shoulders." 
Isaiah14:26 This is the [Lord's] purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth [regarded as conquered and put under tribute by Assyria]; and this is [His omnipotent] hand that is stretched out over all the nations. 
Isaiah14:27 For the Lord of hosts has purposed, and who can annul it? And His hand is stretched out, and who can turn it back?" 
Isaiah14:28 In the year that King Ahaz [of Judah] died there came this mournful, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up):" 
Isaiah14:29 Rejoice not, O Philistia, all of you, because the rod [of Judah] that smote you is broken; for out of the serpent's root shall come forth an adder [King Hezekiah of Judah], and its [the serpent's] offspring will be a fiery, flying serpent. [II Kings 18:1, 3, 8.]" 
Isaiah14:30 And the firstborn of the poor and the poorest of the poor [of Judah] shall feed on My meadows, and the needy will lie down in safety; but I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant shall be slain." 
Isaiah14:31 Howl, O gate! Cry, O city! Melt away, O Philistia, all of you! For there is coming a smoke out of the north, and there is no straggler in his ranks and none stands aloof [in Hezekiah's battalions]." 
Isaiah14:32 What then shall one answer the messengers of the [Philistine] nation? That the Lord has founded Zion, and in her shall the poor and afflicted of His people trust and find refuge." 
Isaiah15:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Moab: Because in a night Ar of Moab is laid waste and brought to silence! Because in a night Kir of Moab is laid waste and brought to silence!" 
Isaiah15:2 They are gone up to Bayith and to Dibon, to the high places to weep. Moab wails over Nebo and over Medeba; on all their heads is baldness, and every beard is cut off [as a sign of deep sorrow and humiliation]. [Jer. 48:37.]" 
Isaiah15:3 In their streets they gird themselves with sackcloth; on the tops of their houses and in their broad places everyone wails, weeping abundantly." 
Isaiah15:4 And Heshbon and Elealeh [cities in possession of Moab] cry out; their voice is heard even to Jahaz. Therefore the armed soldiers of Moab cry out; [Moab's] life is grievous and trembles within him. 
Isaiah15:5 My heart cries out for Moab; his nobles and other fugitives flee to Zoar, to Eglath-shelishiyah [like a heifer three years old]. For with weeping they go up the ascent of Luhith; for on the road to Horonaim they raise a cry of destruction. [Jer. 48:5.]" 
Isaiah15:6 For the waters of Nimrim are desolations, for the grass is withered away and the new growth fails; there is no green thing." 
Isaiah15:7 Therefore the abundance [of possessions] they have acquired and stored away they [now] carry over the willow brook and to the valley of the Arabians. 
Isaiah15:8 For the cry [of distress] has gone round the borders of Moab; the wailing has reached to Eglaim, and the prolonged and mournful cry to Beer-elim." 
Isaiah15:9 For the waters of Dimon are full of blood; yet I [the Lord] will bring even more on Dimon,a lion upon those of Moab who escape and upon the remnant of the land. 
Isaiah16:1 YOU [Moabites, now fugitives in Edom, which is ruled by the king of Judah] send lambs to the ruler of the land, from Sela or Petra through the desert and wilderness to the mountain of the Daughter of Zion [Jerusalem]. [II Kings 3:4, 5.]" 
Isaiah16:2 For like wandering birds, like a brood cast out and a scattered nest, so shall the daughters of Moab be at the fords of the [river] Arnon." 
Isaiah16:3 [Say to the ruler] Give counsel, execute justice [for Moab, O king of Judah]; make your shade [over us] like night in the midst of noonday; hide the outcasts, betray not the fugitive to his pursuer." 
Isaiah16:4 Let our outcasts of Moab dwell among you; be a sheltered hiding place to them from the destroyer. When the extortion and the extortioner have been brought to nought, and destruction has ceased, and the oppressors and they who trample men are consumed and have vanished out of the land," 
Isaiah16:5 Then in mercy and loving-kindness shall a throne be established, and One shall sit upon it in truth and faithfulness in the tent of David, judging and seeking justice and being swift to do righteousness. [Ps. 96:13; Jer. 48:47.]" 
Isaiah16:6 We have heard of the pride of Moab, that he is very proud,even of his arrogance, his conceit, his wrath, his untruthful boasting." 
Isaiah16:7 Moab therefore shall wail for Moab; everyone shall wail. For the ruins, flagons of wine, and the raisin cakes of Kir-hareseth you shall sigh and mourn, utterly stricken and discouraged." 
Isaiah16:8 For the fields of Heshbon languish and wither, and the vines of Sibmah; the lords of the nations have broken down [Moab's] choice vine branches, which reached even to Jazer, wandering into the wilderness; its shoots stretched out abroad, they passed over [the shores of] the [Dead] Sea." 
Isaiah16:9 Therefore I [Isaiah] will weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vines of Sibmah. I will drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; for upon your summer fruits and your harvest the shout [of alarm and the cry of the enemy] has fallen." 
Isaiah16:10 And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the plentiful field; and in the vineyards there is no singing, nor is there joyful sound; the treaders tread out no wine in the presses, for the shout of joy has been made to cease." 
Isaiah16:11 Wherefore my heart sounds like a harp [in mournful compassion] for Moab, and my inner being [goes out] for Kir-hareseth [for those brick-walled citadels of his]." 
Isaiah16:12 It shall be that when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself [worshiping] on the high place [of idolatry], he will come to his sanctuary [of Chemosh, god of Moab], but he will not prevail. [Then will he be ashamed of his god.] [Jer. 48:13.]" 
Isaiah16:13 This is the word that the Lord has spoken concerning Moab since that time [when Moab's pride and resistance to God were first known]. 
Isaiah16:14 But now the Lord has spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of a hireling [who will not serve longer than the allotted time], the glory of Moab shall be brought into contempt, in spite of all his mighty multitudes of people; and the remnant that survives will be very small, feeble, and of no account." 
Isaiah17:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Damascus [capital of Syria, and Israel's bulwark against Assyria]. Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city and will become a heap of ruins." 
Isaiah17:2 The cities of Aroer [east of the Jordan] are forsaken; they shall be for flocks, which shall lie down, and none shall make them afraid." 
Isaiah17:3 His bulwark [Syria] and the fortress shall disappear from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus; and the remnant of Syria will be like the [departed] glory of the children of Israel [her ally], says the Lord of hosts." 
Isaiah17:4 And in that day the former glory of Jacob [Israel,his might, his population, his prosperity] shall be enfeebled, and the fat of his flesh shall become lean." 
Isaiah17:5 And it shall be as when the reaper gathers the standing grain and his arm harvests the ears; yes, it shall be as when one gathers the ears of grain in the fertile Valley of Rephaim." 
Isaiah17:6 Yet gleanings [of grapes] shall be left in it [the land of Israel], as after the beating of an olive tree [with a stick], two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough, four or five in the outermost branches of the fruitful tree, says the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Isaiah17:7 In that day will men look to their Maker, and their eyes shall regard the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah17:8 And they will not look to the [idolatrous] altars, the work of their hands, neither will they have respect for what their fingers have made,either the Asherim [symbols of the goddess Asherah] or the sun-images." 
Isaiah17:9 In that day will their [Syria's and Israel's] strong cities be like the forsaken places in the wood and on the mountaintop, as they [the Amorites and the Hivites] forsook their [cities] because of the children of Israel; and there will be desolation." 
Isaiah17:10 Because you have forgotten the God of your salvation [O Judah] and have not been mindful of the Rock of your strength, your Stronghold,therefore, you have planted pleasant nursery grounds and plantings [to Adonis, pots of quickly withered flowers used to set by their doors or in the courts of temples], and have set [the grounds] with vine slips of a strange [God]," 
Isaiah17:11 And in the day of your planting you hedge it in, and in the morning you make your seed to blossom, yet [promising as it is] the harvest shall be a heap of ruins and flee away in the day of expected possession and of desperate sorrow and sickening, incurable pain." 
Isaiah17:12 Hark, the uproar of a multitude of peoples! They roar and thunder like the noise of the seas! Ah, the roar of nations! They roar like the roaring of rushing and mighty waters!" 
Isaiah17:13 The nations will rush and roar like the rushing and roaring of many waters,but [God] will rebuke them, and they will flee far off and will be chased like chaff on the mountains before the wind, and like rolling thistledown or whirling dust of the stubble before the storm." 
Isaiah17:14 At evening time, behold, terror! And before the morning, they [the terrorizing Assyrians] are not. This is the portion of those who strip us [the Jews] of what belongs to us, and the lot of those who rob us. [Fulfilled in Isa. 37:36.]" 
Isaiah18:1 WOE TO the land whirring with wings which is beyond the rivers of Cush or Ethiopia," 
Isaiah18:2 That sends ambassadors by the Nile, even in vessels of papyrus upon the waters! Go, you swift messengers, to a nation tall and polished, to a people terrible from their beginning [feared and dreaded near and far], a nation strong and victorious, whose land the rivers divide!" 
Isaiah18:3 All you inhabitants of the world, you who dwell on the earth, when a signal is raised on the mountains,look! When a trumpet is blown,hear!" 
Isaiah18:4 For thus the Lord has said to me: I will be still and I will look on from My dwelling place, like clear and glowing heat in sunshine, like a fine cloud of mist in the heat of harvest." 
Isaiah18:5 For before the harvest, when the blossom is over and the flower becomes a ripening grape, He will cut off the sprigs with pruning hooks, and the spreading branches He will remove and cut away." 
Isaiah18:6 They [the dead bodies of the slain warriors] shall be left together to the ravenous birds of the mountains and to the beasts of the earth; and the ravenous birds will summer upon them, and all the beasts of the earth will winter upon them." 
Isaiah18:7 At that time shall a present be brought to the Lord of hosts from a people tall and polished, from a people terrible from their beginning and feared and dreaded near and far, a nation strong and victorious, whose land the rivers or great channels divide,to the place [of worship] of the Name of the Lord of hosts, to Mount Zion [in Jerusalem]. [Deut. 12:5; II Chron. 32:23; Isa. 16:1; 45:14; Zeph. 3:10.]" 
Isaiah19:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Egypt: Behold, the Lord is riding on a swift cloud and comes to Egypt; and the idols of Egypt will tremble at His presence, and the hearts of the Egyptians will melt within them." 
Isaiah19:2 And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians, and they will fight, every one against his brother and every one against his neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom." 
Isaiah19:3 And the spirit of the Egyptians within them will become exhausted and emptied out and will fail, and I will destroy their counsel and confound their plans; and they will seek counsel from the idols and the sorcerers, and from those having familiar spirits (the mediums) and the wizards." 
Isaiah19:4 And I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a hard and cruel master, and a fierce king will rule over them, says the Lord, the Lord of hosts." 
Isaiah19:5 And the waters shall fail from the Nile, and the river shall be wasted and become dry." 
Isaiah19:6 And the rivers shall become foul, the streams and canals of Egypt shall be diminished and dried up, the reeds and the rushes shall wither and rot away." 
Isaiah19:7 The meadows by the Nile, by the brink of the Nile, and all the sown fields of the Nile shall become dry, be blown away, and be no more." 
Isaiah19:8 The fishermen will lament, and all who cast a hook into the Nile will mourn; and they who spread nets upon the waters will languish." 
Isaiah19:9 Moreover, they who work with combed flax and they who weave white [cotton] cloth will be confounded and in despair." 
Isaiah19:10 [Those who are] the pillars and foundations of Egypt will be crushed, and all those who work for hire or who build dams will be grieved." 
Isaiah19:11 The princes of Zoan [ancient capital of the Pharaohs] are utterly foolish; the counsel of the wisest counselors of Pharaoh has become witless (stupid). How can you say to Pharaoh, I am a son of the wise, a son of ancient kings?" 
Isaiah19:12 Where then are your wise men? Let them tell you now [if they are so wise], and let them make known what the Lord of hosts has purposed against Egypt [if they can]." 
Isaiah19:13 The princes of Zoan have become fools, and the princes of Memphis are confused and deceived; those who are the cornerstones of her tribes have led Egypt astray." 
Isaiah19:14 The Lord has mingled a spirit of perverseness, error, and confusion within her; [her leaders] have caused Egypt to stagger in all her doings, as a drunken man staggers in his vomit." 
Isaiah19:15 Neither can any work [done singly or by concerted action] accomplish anything for Egypt, whether by head or tail, palm branch or rush [high or low]." 
Isaiah19:16 In that day will the Egyptians be like women [timid and helpless]; and they will tremble and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the Lord of hosts which He shakes over them. 
Isaiah19:17 And the land of Judah [allied to Assyria] shall become a terror to the Egyptians; everyone to whom mention of it is made will be afraid and everyone who mentions it,to him will they turn in fear, because of the purpose of the Lord of hosts which He purposes against Egypt." 
Isaiah19:18 In that day there will be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of [the Hebrews of] Canaan and swear allegiance to the Lord of hosts. One of them will be called the City of the Sun or Destruction. 
Isaiah19:19 In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord at its border." 
Isaiah19:20 And it will be a sign and a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they will cry to the Lord because of oppressors, and He will send them a savior, even a mighty one, and he will deliver them. [Judg. 2:18; 3:9, 15.]" 
Isaiah19:21 And the Lord will make Himself known to Egypt, and the Egyptians will know (have knowledge of, be acquainted with, give heed to, and cherish) the Lord in that day and will worship with sacrifices of animal and vegetable offerings; they will vow a vow to the Lord and perform it." 
Isaiah19:22 And the Lord shall smite Egypt, smiting and healing it; and they will return to the Lord, and He will listen to their entreaties and heal them." 
Isaiah19:23 In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian will come into Egypt and the Egyptian into Assyria; and the Egyptians will worship [the Lord] with the Assyrians." 
Isaiah19:24 In that day Israel shall be the third, with Egypt and with Assyria [in a Messianic league], a blessing in the midst of the earth," 
Isaiah19:25 Whom the Lord of hosts has blessed, saying, Blessed be Egypt My people and Assyria the work of My hands and Israel My heritage." 
Isaiah20:1 IN THE year that the Tartan [Assyrian commander in chief] came to Ashdod in Philistia, sent by Sargon king of Assyria, he fought against Ashdod and took it." 
Isaiah20:2 At that time the Lord spoke by Isaiah son of Amoz, saying, Go, loose the sackcloth from off your loins and take your shoes off your feet. And he had done so, walking around stripped [to his loincloth] and barefoot." 
Isaiah20:3 And the Lord said, As My servant Isaiah has walked [comparatively] naked and barefoot for three years, as a sign and forewarning concerning Egypt and concerning Cush (Ethiopia)," 
Isaiah20:4 So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Ethiopian exiles, young and old, naked and barefoot, even with buttocks uncovered,to the shame of Egypt." 
Isaiah20:5 And they shall be dismayed and confounded because of Ethiopia their hope and expectation and Egypt their glory and boast. 
Isaiah20:6 And the inhabitants of this coastland [the Israelites and their neighbors] will say in that day, See! This is what comes to those in whom we trusted and hoped, to whom we fled for help to deliver us from the king of Assyria! But we, how shall we escape [captivity and exile]?" 
Isaiah21:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning the Desert of the Sea [which was Babylon after great dams were raised to control the waters of the Euphrates River which overflowed it like a sea,and would do so again]: As whirlwinds in the South (the Negeb) sweep through, so it [the judgment of God by hostile armies] comes from the desert, from a terrible land." 
Isaiah21:2 A hard and grievous vision is declared to me: the treacherous dealer deals treacherously, and the destroyer destroys. Go up, O Elam! Besiege, O Media! All the sighing [caused by Babylon's ruthless oppressions] I will cause to cease [says the Lord]. [Isa. 11:11; 13:17.]" 
Isaiah21:3 Therefore are my [Isaiah's] loins filled with anguish, pangs have seized me like the pangs of a woman in childbirth; I am bent and pained so that I cannot hear, I am dismayed so that I cannot see." 
Isaiah21:4 My mind reels and wanders, horror terrifies me. [In my mind's eye I am at the feast of Belshazzar. I see the defilement of the golden vessels taken from God's temple, I watch the handwriting appear on the wall,I know that Babylon's great king is to be slain.] The twilight I looked forward to with pleasure has been turned into fear and trembling for me. [Dan. 5.]" 
Isaiah21:5 They prepare the table, they spread the rugs, [and having] set the watchers [the revelers take no other precaution], they eat, they drink. Arise, you princes, and oil your shields [for your deadly foe is at the gates]!" 
Isaiah21:6 For thus has the Lord said to me: Go, set [yourself as] a watchman, let him declare what he sees." 
Isaiah21:7 And when he sees a troop, horsemen in pairs, a troop of donkeys, and a troop of camels, he shall listen diligently, very diligently." 
Isaiah21:8 And [the watchman] cried like a lion, O Lord, I stand continually on the watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my station every night." 
Isaiah21:9 And see! Here comes a troop of men and chariots, horsemen in pairs! And he [the watchman] tells [what it foretells]: Babylon has fallen, has fallen! And all the graven images of her gods lie shattered on the ground [in my vision]!" 
Isaiah21:10 O you my threshed and winnowed ones [my own people the Jews, who must be trodden down by Babylon], that which I have heard from the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have [joyfully] announced to you [Babylon is to fall]!" 
Isaiah21:11 The mournful, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Dumah (Edom): One calls to me from Seir (Edom), Watchman, what of the night? [How far is it spent? How long till morning?] Guardian, what of the night?" 
Isaiah21:12 The watchman said, The morning comes, but also the night. [Another time, if Edom earnestly wishes to know] if you will inquire [of me], inquire; return, come again." 
Isaiah21:13 The mournful, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Arabia: In the forests and thickets of Arabia you shall lodge, O you caravans of Dedanites [from northern Arabia]." 
Isaiah21:14 To the thirsty [Dedanites] bring water, O inhabitants of the land of Tema [in Arabia]; meet the fugitive with bread [suitable] for him." 
Isaiah21:15 For they have fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war [the press of battle]." 
Isaiah21:16 For the Lord has said this to me, Within a year, according to the years of a hireling [who will work no longer than was agreed], all the glory of Kedar [an Arabian tribe] will fail." 
Isaiah21:17 And the remainder of the number of archers and their bows, the mighty men of the sons of Kedar, will be diminished and few; for the Lord, the God of Israel, has spoken it." 
Isaiah22:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning the Valley of Vision: What do you mean [I wonder] that you have all gone up to the housetops," 
Isaiah22:2 You who are full of shouting, a tumultuous city, a joyous and exultant city? [O Jerusalem] your slain warriors have not met [a glorious] death with the sword or in battle." 
Isaiah22:3 All your [military] leaders have fled together; without the bow [which they had thrown away] they have been taken captive and bound by the archers. All of you who were found were bound together [as captives], though they had fled far away." 
Isaiah22:4 Therefore I [Isaiah] said, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly. Do not hasten and try to comfort me over the destruction of the daughter of my people." 
Isaiah22:5 For it is a day of discomfiture and of tumult, of treading down, of confusion and perplexity from the Lord God of hosts in the Valley of Vision, a day of breaking down the walls and of crying to the mountains." 
Isaiah22:6 And [in my vision I saw] Elam take up the quiver, with troops in chariots, infantry, and horsemen; and Kir [with Elam subject to Assyria] uncovered the shield." 
Isaiah22:7 And it came to pass that your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen took their station [and set themselves in offensive array at the gate of Jerusalem]. [Fulfilled in II Chron. 32; Isa. 36.]" 
Isaiah22:8 Then [God] removed the protective covering of Judah; and you looked to the weapons in the House of the Forest [the king's armory] in that day. [I Kings 7:2; 10:17, 21.]" 
Isaiah22:9 You saw that the breaches [in the walls] of the City of David [the citadel of Zion] were many; [since the water supply was still defective] you collected [within the city's walls] the waters of the Lower Pool. 
Isaiah22:10 And you numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses [to get materials] to fortify the [city] wall." 
Isaiah22:11 You also made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the Old Pool, but you did not look to the Maker of it, nor did you recognize Him Who planned it long ago." 
Isaiah22:12 And in that day the Lord God of hosts called you to weeping and mourning, to the shaving off of all your hair [in humiliation] and to the girding with sackcloth." 
Isaiah22:13 But instead, see the pleasure and mirth, slaying oxen and killing sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine, [with the idea] Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die!" 
Isaiah22:14 And the Lord of hosts revealed Himself in my ears [as He said], Surely this unatoned sin shall not be purged from you until [you are punished,and the punishment will be] death, says the Lord God of hosts." 
Isaiah22:15 Come, go to this [contemptible] steward and treasurer, to Shebna, who is over the house [but who is presumptuous enough to be building himself a tomb among those of the mighty, a tomb worthy of a king], and say to him," 
Isaiah22:16 What business have you here? And whom have you entombed here, that you have the right to hew out for yourself a tomb here? He hews out a sepulcher for himself on the height! He carves out a dwelling for himself in the rock!" 
Isaiah22:17 Behold, the Lord will hurl you away violently, O you strong man; yes, He will take tight hold of you and He will surely cover you [with shame]." 
Isaiah22:18 He will surely roll you up in a bundle [Shebna] and toss you like a ball into a large country; there you will die and there will be your splendid chariots, you disgrace to your master's house!" 
Isaiah22:19 And I will thrust you from your office, and from your station will you be pulled down." 
Isaiah22:20 And in that day I will call My servant, Eliakim son of Hilkiah." 
Isaiah22:21 And I will clothe him with your robe and will bind your girdle on him and will commit your authority to his hand; he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. 
Isaiah22:22 And the key of the house of David I will lay upon his shoulder; he shall open and no one shall shut, he shall shut and no one shall open." 
Isaiah22:23 And I will fasten him like a peg or nail in a firm place; and he will become a throne of honor and glory to his father's house. 
Isaiah22:24 And they will hang on him the honor and the whole weight of [responsibility for] his father's house: the offspring and issue [of the family, high and low], every small vessel, from the cups even to all the flasks and big bulging bottles." 
Isaiah22:25 In that day, says the Lord of hosts, the nail or peg that was fastened into the sure place shall give way and be moved and be hewn down and fall, and the burden that was upon it shall be cut off; for the Lord has spoken it." 
Isaiah23:1 THE MOURNFUL, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning Tyre: Wail, you ships of [Tyre returning from trading with] Tarshish, for Tyre is laid waste, so that there is no house, no harbor; from the land of Kittim (Cyprus) they learn of it." 
Isaiah23:2 Be still, you inhabitants of the coast, you merchants of Sidon, your messengers passing over the sea have replenished you [with wealth and industry]," 
Isaiah23:3 And were on great waters. The seed or grain of the Shihor, the harvest [due to the overflow] of the Nile River, was [Tyre's] revenue, and she became the merchandise of the nations." 
Isaiah23:4 Be ashamed, O Sidon [mother-city of Tyre, now a widow bereaved of her children], for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying, I have neither travailed nor brought forth children; I have neither nourished and reared young men nor brought up virgins." 
Isaiah23:5 When the report comes to Egypt, they will be sorely pained over the report about Tyre." 
Isaiah23:6 Pass over to Tarshish [to seek safety as exiles]! Wail, you inhabitants of the [Tyre] coast!" 
Isaiah23:7 Is this your jubilant city, whose origin dates back into antiquity, whose own feet are accustomed to carry her far off to settle [daughter cities]?" 
Isaiah23:8 Who has purposed this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, whose merchants were princes, whose traders were the honored of the earth?" 
Isaiah23:9 The Lord of hosts has purposed it [in accordance with a fixed principle of His government], to defile the pride of all glory and to bring into dishonor and contempt all the honored of the earth." 
Isaiah23:10 Overflow your land like [the overflow of] the Nile River, O Daughter of Tarshish; there is no girdle of restraint [on you] any more [to make you pay tribute or customs or duties to Tyre]." 
Isaiah23:11 He stretched out His hand over the sea, He shook the kingdoms; the Lord has given a command concerning Canaan to destroy her strongholds and fortresses [Tyre, Sidon, etc.]." 
Isaiah23:12 And He said, You shall no more exult, you oppressed and crushed one, O Virgin Daughter of Sidon. Arise, pass over to Kittim (Cyprus); but even there you will have no rest." 
Isaiah23:13 Look at the land of the Chaldeans! That people and not the Assyrians designed and assigned [Tyre] for the wild beasts and those who [previously] dwelt in the wilderness. They set up their siege works, they overthrew its palaces, they made it a ruin!" 
Isaiah23:14 Howl, you ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold [of Tyre] is laid waste [your strength has been destroyed]." 
Isaiah23:15 And in that day Tyre will be in obscurity and forgotten for seventy years, according to the days of one dynasty. After the end of seventy years will Tyre sing as a harlot [who has been forgotten but again attracts her lovers]." 
Isaiah23:16 Take a harp, go about the city, forgotten harlot; play skillfully and make sweet melody, sing many songs, that you may be remembered." 
Isaiah23:17 And after the end of seventy years the Lord will remember Tyre; and she will return to her hire and will play the harlot [resume her commerce] with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth. 
Isaiah23:18 But her gain and her hire [the profits of Tyre's new prosperity] will be dedicated to the Lord [eventually]; it will not be treasured or stored up, for her gain will be used for those who dwell in the presence of the Lord [the ministers], that they may eat sufficiently and have durable and stately clothing [suitable for those who minister at God's altar]." 
Isaiah24:1 BEHOLD, THE Lord will make the land and the earth empty and make it waste and turn it upside down (twist the face of it) and scatter abroad its inhabitants." 
Isaiah24:2 And it shall be,as [what happens] with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the creditor, so with the debtor." 
Isaiah24:3 The land and the earth shall be utterly laid waste and utterly pillaged; for the Lord has said this. 
Isaiah24:4 The land and the earth mourn and wither, the world languishes and withers, the high ones of the people [and the heavens with the earth] languish." 
Isaiah24:5 The land and the earth also are defiled by their inhabitants, because they have transgressed the laws, disregarded the statutes, and broken the everlasting covenant. [Gen. 9:1-17; Deut. 29:20.]" 
Isaiah24:6 Therefore a curse devours the land and the earth, and they who dwell in it suffer the punishment of their guilt. Therefore the inhabitants of the land and the earth are scorched and parched [under the curse of God's wrath], and few people are left. [Rom. 1:20.]" 
Isaiah24:7 The new wine mourns, the vine languishes; all the merrymakers sigh." 
Isaiah24:8 The mirth of the timbrels is stilled, the noise of those who rejoice ends, the joy of the lyre is stopped." 
Isaiah24:9 No more will they drink wine with a song; strong drink will be bitter to those who drink it. 
Isaiah24:10 The wasted city of emptiness and confusion is broken down; every house is shut up so that no one may enter. 
Isaiah24:11 There is crying in the streets for wine; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is banished and gone into captivity." 
Isaiah24:12 In the city is left desolation, and its gate is battered and destroyed." 
Isaiah24:13 For so shall it be in the midst of the earth among the peoples, as the shaking and beating of an olive tree, or as the gleaning when the vintage is done [and only a small amount of the fruit remains]." 
Isaiah24:14 [But] these [who have escaped and remain] lift up their voices, they shout; for the majesty of the Lord they cry aloud from the [Mediterranean] Sea." 
Isaiah24:15 Wherefore glorify the Lord in the east [whether in the region of daybreak's lights and fires, or in the west]; [glorify] the name of the Lord, the God of Israel in the isles and coasts of the [Mediterranean] Sea." 
Isaiah24:16 From the uttermost parts of the earth have we heard songs: Glory to the Righteous One [and to the people of Israel]! But I say, Emaciated I pine away, I pine away. Woe is me! The treacherous dealers deal treacherously! Yes, the treacherous dealers deal very treacherously." 
Isaiah24:17 Terror and pit [of destruction] and snare are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth!" 
Isaiah24:18 And he who flees at the noise of the terror will fall into the pit; and he who comes up out of the pit will be caught in the snare. For the windows of the heavens are opened [as in the deluge], and the foundations of the earth tremble and shake." 
Isaiah24:19 The earth is utterly broken, the earth is rent asunder, the earth is shaken violently." 
Isaiah24:20 The earth shall stagger like a drunken man and shall sway to and fro like a hammock; its transgression shall lie heavily upon it, and it shall fall and not rise again." 
Isaiah24:21 And in that day the Lord will visit and punish the host of the high ones on high [the host of heaven in heaven, celestial beings] and the kings of the earth on the earth. [I Cor. 15:25; Eph. 3:10; 6:12.]" 
Isaiah24:22 And they will be gathered together as prisoners are gathered in a pit or dungeon; they will be shut up in prison, and after many days they will be visited, inspected, and punished or pardoned. [Zech. 9:11, 12; II Pet. 2:4; Jude 6.]" 
Isaiah24:23 Then the moon will be confounded and the sun ashamed, when [they compare their ineffectual fire to the light of] the Lord of hosts, Who will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and before His elders will show forth His glory." 
Isaiah25:1 O LORD, You are my God; I will exalt You, I will praise Your name, for You have done wonderful things, even purposes planned of old [and fulfilled] in faithfulness and truth." 
Isaiah25:2 For You have made a city a heap, a fortified city a ruin, a palace of aliens without a city [is no more a city]; it will never be rebuilt." 
Isaiah25:3 Therefore [many] a strong people will glorify You, [many] a city of terrible and ruthless nations will [reverently] fear You." 
Isaiah25:4 For You have been a stronghold for the poor, a stronghold for the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm, a shade from the heat; for the blast of the ruthless ones is like a rainstorm against a wall." 
Isaiah25:5 As the heat in a dry land [is reduced by the shadow of a cloud, so] You will bring down the noise of aliens [exultant over their enemies]; and as the heat is brought low by the shadow of a cloud, so the song of the ruthless ones is brought low." 
Isaiah25:6 And on this Mount [Zion] shall the Lord of hosts make for all peoples a feast of rich things [symbolic of His coronation festival inaugurating the reign of the Lord on earth, in the wake of a background of gloom, judgment, and terror], a feast of wines on the lees,of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined." 
Isaiah25:7 And He will destroy on this mountain the covering of the face that is cast over the heads of all peoples [in mourning], and the veil [of profound wretchedness] that is woven and spread over all nations." 
Isaiah25:8 He will swallow up death [in victory; He will abolish death forever]. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces; and the reproach of His people He will take away from off all the earth; for the Lord has spoken it. [I Cor. 15:26, 54; II Tim. 1:10.]" 
Isaiah25:9 It shall be said in that day, Behold our God upon Whom we have waited and hoped, that He might save us! This is the Lord, we have waited for Him; we will be glad and rejoice in His salvation." 
Isaiah25:10 For the hand of the Lord shall rest on this Mount [Zion], and Moab shall be threshed and trodden down in his place as straw is trodden down in the [filthy] water of a [primitive] cesspit." 
Isaiah25:11 And though [Moab] stretches forth his hands in the midst of [the filthy water] as a swimmer stretches out his hands to swim, the Lord will bring down [Moab's] pride in spite of the skillfulness of his hands and together with the spoils of his hands." 
Isaiah25:12 And the high fortifications of your walls [the Lord] will bring down, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust." 
Isaiah26:1 IN THAT day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; [the Lord] sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks. 
Isaiah26:2 Open the gates, that the [uncompromisingly] righteous nation which keeps her faith and her troth [with God] may enter in." 
Isaiah26:3 You will guard him and keep him in perfect and constant peace whose mind [both its inclination and its character] is stayed on You, because he commits himself to You, leans on You, and hopes confidently in You." 
Isaiah26:4 So trust in the Lord (commit yourself to Him, lean on Him, hope confidently in Him) forever; for the Lord God is an everlasting Rock [the Rock of Ages]." 
Isaiah26:5 For He has brought down the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city; He lays it low, lays it low to the ground; He brings it even to the dust." 
Isaiah26:6 The foot has trampled it down,even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy." 
Isaiah26:7 The way of the [consistently] righteous (those living in moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relationship of their lives) is level and straight; You, O [Lord], Who are upright, direct aright and make level the path of the [uncompromisingly] just and righteous." 
Isaiah26:8 Yes, in the path of Your judgments, O Lord, we wait [expectantly] for You; our heartfelt desire is for Your name and for the remembrance of You." 
Isaiah26:9 My soul yearns for You [O Lord] in the night, yes, my spirit within me seeks You earnestly; for [only] when Your judgments are in the earth will the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God)." 
Isaiah26:10 Though favor is shown to the wicked, yet they do not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness they deal perversely and refuse to see the majesty of the Lord." 
Isaiah26:11 Though Your hand is lifted high to strike, Lord, they do not see it. Let them see Your zeal for Your people and be ashamed; yes, let the fire reserved for Your enemies consume them." 
Isaiah26:12 Lord, You will ordain peace (God's favor and blessings, both temporal and spiritual) for us, for You have also wrought in us and for us all our works." 
Isaiah26:13 O Lord, our God, other masters besides You have ruled over us, but we will acknowledge and mention Your name only." 
Isaiah26:14 They [the former tyrant masters] are dead, they shall not live and reappear; they are powerless ghosts, they shall not rise and come back. Therefore You have visited and made an end of them and caused every memory of them [every trace of their supremacy] to perish." 
Isaiah26:15 You have increased the nation, O Lord; You have increased the nation. You are glorified; You have enlarged all the borders of the land." 
Isaiah26:16 Lord, when they were in trouble and distress, they sought and visited You; they poured out a prayerful whisper when Your chastening was upon them." 
Isaiah26:17 As a woman with child drawing near the time of her delivery is in pain and writhes and cries out in her pangs, so we have been before You (at Your presence), O Lord." 
Isaiah26:18 We have been with child, we have been writhing and in pain; we have, as it were, brought forth [only] wind. We have not wrought any deliverance in the earth, and the inhabitants of the world [of Israel] have not yet been born." 
Isaiah26:19 Your dead shall live [O Lord]; the bodies of our dead [saints] shall rise. You who dwell in the dust, awake and sing for joy! For Your dew [O Lord] is a dew of [sparkling] light [heavenly, supernatural dew]; and the earth shall cast forth the dead [to life again; for on the land of the shades of the dead You will let Your dew fall]. [Ezek. 37:11-12.]" 
Isaiah26:20 Come, my people, enter your chambers and shut your doors behind you; hide yourselves for a little while until the [Lord's] wrath is past." 
Isaiah26:21 For behold, the Lord is coming out of His place [heaven] to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity; the earth also will disclose the blood shed upon her and will no longer cover her slain and conceal her guilt." 
Isaiah27:1 IN THAT day [the Lord will deliver Israel from her enemies and also from the rebel powers of evil and darkness] His sharp and unrelenting, great, and strong sword will visit and punish Leviathan the swiftly fleeing serpent, Leviathan the twisting and winding serpent; and He will slay the monster that is in the sea." 
Isaiah27:2 In that day [it will be said of the redeemed nation of Israel], A vineyard beloved and lovely; sing a responsive song to it and about it!" 
Isaiah27:3 I, the Lord, am its Keeper; I water it every moment; lest anyone harm it, I guard and keep it night and day." 
Isaiah27:4 Wrath is not in Me. Would that the briers and thorns [the wicked internal foe] were lined up against Me in battle! I would stride in against them; I would burn them up together. 
Isaiah27:5 Or else [if all Israel would escape being burned up together there is but one alternative], let them take hold of My strength and make complete surrender to My protection, that they may make peace with Me! Yes, let them make peace with Me!" 
Isaiah27:6 In the days and generations to come Jacob shall take root; Israel shall blossom and send forth shoots and fill the whole world with fruit [of the knowledge of the true God]. [Hos. 14:1-6; Rom. 11:12.] 
Isaiah27:7 Has [the Lord] smitten [Israel] as He smote those who smote them? Or have [the Israelites] been slain as their slayers were slain? 
Isaiah27:8 By driving them out of Canaan, by exile, You contended with them in a measure [O Lord],He removed them with His rough blast as in the day of the east wind." 
Isaiah27:9 Only on this condition shall the iniquity of Jacob (Israel) be forgiven and purged, and this shall be the full fruit [God requires] for taking away his sin: that [Israel] should make all the stones of the [idol] altars like chalk stones crushed to pieces, so that the Asherim and the sun-images shall not remain standing or rise again." 
Isaiah27:10 For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken like the wilderness; there the calf grazes, and there he lies down; he strips its branches and eats its twigs." 
Isaiah27:11 When its boughs are withered and dry, they are broken off; the women come and set them afire. For they are a people of no understanding or discernment,witless folk; therefore He Who made them will not have compassion on them, and He Who formed them will show them no favor." 
Isaiah27:12 And it shall be in that day that the Lord will thresh out His grain from the flood of the River [Euphrates] to the Brook of Egypt, and you will be gathered one by one and one to another, O children of Israel!" 
Isaiah27:13 And it shall be in that day that a great trumpet will be blown; and they will come who were lost and ready to perish in the land of Assyria and those who were driven out to the land of Egypt, and they will worship the Lord on the holy mountain at Jerusalem. [Zech. 14:16; Matt. 24:31; Rev. 11:15.]" 
Isaiah28:1 WOE TO [Samaria] the crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim [the ten tribes], and to the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome and smitten down with wine!" 
Isaiah28:2 Behold, the Lord has a strong and mighty one [the Assyrian]; like a tempest of hail, a destroying storm, like a flood of mighty overflowing waters, he will cast it down to the earth with violent hand." 
Isaiah28:3 With [alien] feet [Samaria] the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden down. 
Isaiah28:4 And the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley, will be like the early fig before the fruit harvest, which, when anyone sees it, he snatches and eats it up greedily at once. [So in an amazingly short time will the Assyrians devour Samaria, Israel's capital.]" 
Isaiah28:5 [But] in that [future Messianic] day the Lord of hosts shall become a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty to the [converted] remnant of His people," 
Isaiah28:6 And a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment and administers the law, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate." 
Isaiah28:7 But even these reel from wine and stagger from strong drink: the priest and the prophet reel from strong drink; they are confused from wine, they stagger and are gone astray through strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble when pronouncing judgment." 
Isaiah28:8 For all the tables are full of filthy vomit, so that there is no place that is clean." 
Isaiah28:9 To whom will He teach knowledge? [Ask the drunkards.] And whom will He make to understand the message? Those who are babies, just weaned from the milk and taken from the breasts? [Is that what He thinks we are?]" 
Isaiah28:10 For it is [His prophets repeating over and over]: precept upon precept, precept upon precept, rule upon rule, rule upon rule; here a little, there a little." 
Isaiah28:11 No, but [the Lord will teach the rebels in a more humiliating way] by men with stammering lips and another tongue will He speak to this people [says Isaiah, and teach them His lessons]." 
Isaiah28:12 To these [complaining Jews the Lord] had said, This is the true rest [the way to true comfort and happiness] that you shall give to the weary, and, This is the [true] refreshing,yet they would not listen [to His teaching]." 
Isaiah28:13 Therefore the word of the Lord will be to them [merely monotonous repeatings of]: precept upon precept, precept upon precept, rule upon rule, rule upon rule; here a little, there a little,that they may go and fall backward, and be broken and snared and taken." 
Isaiah28:14 Therefore hear the word of the Lord, you scoffers who rule this people in Jerusalem!" 
Isaiah28:15 Because you have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol (the place of the dead) we have an agreement,when the overflowing scourge passes through, it will not come to us, for we have made lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter." 
Isaiah28:16 Therefore thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am laying in Zion for a foundation a Stone, a tested Stone, a precious Cornerstone of sure foundation; he who believes (trusts in, relies on, and adheres to that Stone) will not be ashamed or give way or hasten away [in sudden panic]. [Ps. 118:22; Matt. 21:42; Acts 4:11; Rom. 9:33; Eph. 2:20; I Pet. 2:4-6.]" 
Isaiah28:17 I will make justice the measuring line and righteousness the plummet; and hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and waters will overwhelm the hiding place (the shelter)." 
Isaiah28:18 And your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol (the place of the dead) shall not stand; when the overwhelming scourge passes through, then you will be trodden down by it." 
Isaiah28:19 As often as it passes through, it [the enemy's scourge] will take you; for morning by morning will it pass through, by day and by night. And it will be utter terror merely to hear and comprehend the report and the message of it [but only hard treatment and dispersion will make you understand God's instruction]." 
Isaiah28:20 For [they will find that] the bed is too short for a man to stretch himself on and the covering too narrow for him to wrap himself in. [All their sources of confidence will fail them.] 
Isaiah28:21 For the Lord will rise up as on Mount Perazim, He will be wrathful as in the Valley of Gibeon, that He may do His work, His strange work, and bring to pass His act, His strange act. [II Sam. 5:20; I Chron. 14:16.]" 
Isaiah28:22 Now therefore do not be scoffers, lest the bands which bind you be made strong; for a decree of destruction have I heard from the Lord God of hosts upon the whole land and the whole earth." 
Isaiah28:23 Give ear and hear my [Isaiah's] voice; listen and hear my words. 
Isaiah28:24 Does he who plows for sowing plow continually? Does he continue to plow and harrow the ground after it is smooth? 
Isaiah28:25 When he has leveled its surface, does he not cast abroad [the seed of] dill or fennel and scatter cummin [a seasoning], and put the wheat in rows, and barley in its intended place, and spelt [an inferior kind of wheat] as the border?" 
Isaiah28:26 [And he trains each of them correctly] for his God instructs him correctly and teaches him. 
Isaiah28:27 For dill is not threshed with a sharp threshing instrument, nor is a cartwheel rolled over cummin; but dill is beaten off with a staff, and cummin with a rod [by hand]." 
Isaiah28:28 Does one crush bread grain? No, he does not thresh it continuously. But when he has driven his cartwheel and his horses over it, he scatters it [tossing it up to the wind] without having crushed it." 
Isaiah28:29 This also comes from the Lord of hosts, Who is wonderful in counsel [and] excellent in wisdom and effectual working." 
Isaiah29:1 WOE TO Ariel [Jerusalem], to Ariel, the city where David encamped! Add yet another year; let the feasts run their round [but only one year more]." 
Isaiah29:2 Then will I distress Ariel; and there shall be mourning and lamentation, yet she shall be to Me like an Ariel [an altar hearth, a hearth of burning, the altar of God]." 
Isaiah29:3 And I will encamp against you round about; and I will hem you in with siege works and I will set up fortifications against you. 
Isaiah29:4 And you shall be laid low [Jerusalem], speaking from beneath the ground, and your speech shall come humbly from the dust. And your voice shall be like that of a ghost [produced by a medium] coming from the earth, and your speech shall whisper and squeak as it chatters from the dust." 
Isaiah29:5 But the multitude of your [enemy] strangers that assail you shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the ruthless and terrible ones like chaff that blows away. And in an instant, suddenly," 
Isaiah29:6 You shall be visited and delivered by the Lord of hosts with thunder and earthquake and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest and the flame of a devouring fire." 
Isaiah29:7 And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel [Jerusalem], even all that fight against her and her stronghold and that distress her, shall be as a dream, a vision of the night." 
Isaiah29:8 It shall be as when a hungry man dreams that he is eating, but he wakens with his craving not satisfied; or as when a thirsty man dreams that he is drinking, but he wakens and is faint, and his thirst is not quenched. So shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion." 
Isaiah29:9 Stop and wonder [at this prophecy, if you choose, whether you understand it or not; soon you will witness the actual event] and be confounded [reluctantly]! Blind yourselves [now, if you choose; take your pleasure] and then be blinded [at the actual occurrence]. They are drunk, but not from wine; they stagger, but not from strong drink [but from spiritual stupor]." 
Isaiah29:10 For the Lord has poured out on you the spirit of deep sleep. And He has closed your eyes, the prophets; and your heads, the seers, He has covered and muffled." 
Isaiah29:11 And the vision of all this has become for you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, Read this, I pray you, he says, I cannot, for it is sealed." 
Isaiah29:12 And when the book is given to him who is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray you, he says, I cannot read." 
Isaiah29:13 And the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near Me with their mouth and honor Me with their lips but remove their hearts and minds far from Me, and their fear and reverence for Me are a commandment of men that is learned by repetition [without any thought as to the meaning]," 
Isaiah29:14 Therefore, behold! I will again do marvelous things with this people, marvelous and astonishing things; and the wisdom of their wise men will perish, and the understanding of their discerning men will vanish or be hidden." 
Isaiah29:15 Woe to those who [seek to] hide deep from the Lord their counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, and who say, Who sees us? Who knows us?" 
Isaiah29:16 [Oh, your perversity!] You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be considered of no more account than the clay? Shall the thing that is made say of its maker, He did not make me; or the thing that is formed say of him who formed it, He has no understanding?" 
Isaiah29:17 Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field and the fruitful field esteemed as a forest? 
Isaiah29:18 And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and out of obscurity and gloom and darkness the eyes of the blind shall see." 
Isaiah29:19 The meek also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice and exult in the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah29:20 For the terrible one [the Assyrian enemy] shall come to nought, and the scoffer shall cease, and all those who watch for iniquity [as an occasion for accusation] shall be cut off," 
Isaiah29:21 Those who make a man an offender and bring condemnation upon him with a word, and lay a trap for him who upholds justice at the city gate, and thrust aside the innocent and truly righteous with an empty plea." 
Isaiah29:22 Therefore thus says the Lord, Who redeemed Abraham [out of Ur and idolatry], concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob shall not then be ashamed; not then shall his face become pale [with fear and disappointment because of his children's degeneracy]." 
Isaiah29:23 For when he sees his children [walking in the way of piety and virtue], the work of My hands in his midst, they will revere My name; they will revere the Holy One of Jacob and reverently fear the God of Israel." 
Isaiah29:24 Those who err in spirit will come to understanding, and those who murmur [discontentedly] will accept instruction." 
Isaiah30:1 WOE TO the rebellious children, says the Lord, who take counsel and carry out a plan, but not Mine, and who make a league and pour out a drink offering, but not of My Spirit, thus adding sin to sin;" 
Isaiah30:2 Who set out to go down into Egypt, and have not asked Me,to flee to the stronghold of Pharaoh and to strengthen themselves in his strength and to trust in the shadow of Egypt!" 
Isaiah30:3 Therefore shall the strength and protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame, and the refuge in the shadow of Egypt be to your humiliation and confusion." 
Isaiah30:4 For though [Pharaoh's] officials are at Zoan and his ambassadors arrive at Hanes [in Egypt]," 
Isaiah30:5 Yet will all be ashamed because of a people [the Egyptians] who cannot profit them, who are not a help or benefit, but a shame and disgrace." 
Isaiah30:6 A mournful, inspired prediction (a burden to be lifted up) concerning the beasts of the South (the Negeb): Oh, the heavy burden, the load of treasures going to Egypt! Through a land of trouble and anguish, in which are lioness and lion, viper and fiery flying serpent, they carry their riches upon the shoulders of young donkeys, and their treasures upon the humps of camels, to a people that will not and cannot profit them." 
Isaiah30:7 For Egypt's help is worthless and toward no purpose. Therefore I have called her Rahab Who Sits Still. 
Isaiah30:8 Now, go, write it before them on a tablet and inscribe it in a book, that it may be as a witness for the time to come forevermore." 
Isaiah30:9 For this is a rebellious people, faithless and lying sons, children who will not hear the law and instruction of the Lord;" 
Isaiah30:10 Who [virtually] say to the seers [by their conduct], See not! and to the prophets, Prophesy not to us what is right! Speak to us smooth things, prophesy deceitful illusions." 
Isaiah30:11 Get out of the true way, turn aside out of the path, cease holding up before us the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah30:12 Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel: Because you despise and spurn this [My] word and trust in cunning and oppression, in crookedness and perverseness, and rely on them," 
Isaiah30:13 Therefore this iniquity and guilt will be to you like a broken section of a high wall, bulging out and ready [at some distant day] to fall, whose crash will [then] come suddenly and swiftly, in an instant." 
Isaiah30:14 And he shall break it as a potter's vessel is broken, breaking it in pieces without sparing so that there cannot be found among its pieces one large enough to carry coals of fire from the hearth or to dip water out of the cistern." 
Isaiah30:15 For thus said the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel: In returning [to Me] and resting [in Me] you shall be saved; in quietness and in [trusting] confidence shall be your strength. But you would not," 
Isaiah30:16 And you said, No! We will speed [our own course] on horses! Therefore you will speed [in flight from your enemies]! You said, We will ride upon swift steeds [doing our own way]! Therefore will they who pursue you be swift, [so swift that]" 
Isaiah30:17 One thousand of you will flee at the threat of one of them; at the threat of five you will flee till you are left like a beacon or a flagpole on the top of a mountain, and like a signal on a hill." 
Isaiah30:18 And therefore the Lord [earnestly] waits [expecting, looking, and longing] to be gracious to you; and therefore He lifts Himself up, that He may have mercy on you and show loving-kindness to you. For the Lord is a God of justice. Blessed (happy, fortunate, to be envied) are all those who [earnestly] wait for Him, who expect and look and long for Him [for His victory, His favor, His love, His peace, His joy, and His matchless, unbroken companionship]! [John 14:3, 27; II Cor. 12:9; Heb. 12:2; I John 3:16; Rev. 3:5.]" 
Isaiah30:19 O people who dwell in Zion at Jerusalem, you will weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the sound of your cry; when He hears it, He will answer you." 
Isaiah30:20 And though the Lord gives you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your Teacher will not hide Himself any more, but your eyes will constantly behold your Teacher." 
Isaiah30:21 And your ears will hear a word behind you, saying, This is the way; walk in it, when you turn to the right hand and when you turn to the left." 
Isaiah30:22 Then you will defile your carved images overlaid with silver and your molten images plated with gold; you will cast them away as a filthy bloodstained cloth, and you will say to them, Be gone!" 
Isaiah30:23 Then will He give you rain for the seed with which you sow the soil, and bread grain from the produce of the ground, and it will be rich and plentiful. In that day your cattle will feed in large pastures." 
Isaiah30:24 The oxen likewise and the young donkeys that till the ground will eat savory and salted fodder, which has been winnowed with shovel and with fork." 
Isaiah30:25 And upon every high mountain and upon every high hill there will be brooks and streams of water in the day of the great slaughter [the day of the Lord], when the towers fall [and all His enemies are destroyed]." 
Isaiah30:26 Moreover, the light of the moon will be like the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be sevenfold, like the light of seven days [concentrated in one], in the day that the Lord binds up the hurt of His people, and heals their wound [inflicted by Him because of their sins]." 
Isaiah30:27 Behold, the Name of the Lord comes from afar, burning with His anger, and in thick, rising smoke. His lips are full of indignation, and His tongue is like a consuming fire." 
Isaiah30:28 And His breath is like an overflowing stream that reaches even to the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of destruction; and a bridle that causes them to err will be in the jaws of the people." 
Isaiah30:29 You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept, and gladness of heart as when one marches in procession with a flute to go to the temple on the mountain of the Lord, to the Rock of Israel." 
Isaiah30:30 And the Lord shall cause His glorious voice to be heard and the descending blow of His arm to be seen, coming down with indignant anger and with the flame of a devouring fire, amid crashing blast and cloudburst, tempest, and hailstones." 
Isaiah30:31 At the voice of the Lord the Assyrians will be stricken with dismay and terror, when He smites them with His rod." 
Isaiah30:32 And every passing stroke of the staff of punishment and doom which the Lord lays upon them shall be to the sound of [Israel's] timbrels and lyres, when in battle He attacks [Assyria] with swinging and menacing arms." 
Isaiah30:33 For Topheth [a place of burning and abomination] has already been laid out and long ago prepared; yes, for the [Assyrian] king and [the god] Molech it has been made ready, its pyre made deep and large, with fire and much wood; the breath of the Lord, like a stream of brimstone, kindles it. [Jer. 7:31, 32; Matt. 5:22; 25:41.]" 
Isaiah31:1 WOE TO those who go down to Egypt for help, who rely on horses and trust in chariots because they are many and in horsemen because they are very strong, but they look not to the Holy One of Israel, nor seek and consult the Lord!" 
Isaiah31:2 And yet He is wise and brings calamity and does not retract His words; He will arise against the house (the whole race) of evildoers and against the helpers of those who work iniquity. 
Isaiah31:3 Now the Egyptians are men and not God, and their horses are flesh and not spirit; and when the Lord stretches out His hand, both [Egypt] who helps will stumble, and [Judah] who is helped will fall, and they will all perish and be consumed together." 
Isaiah31:4 For the Lord has said to me, As the lion or the young lion growls over his prey,and though a large band of shepherds is called out against him, he will not be terrified at their voice or daunted at their noise,so the Lord of hosts will come down to fight upon Mount Zion and upon its hills." 
Isaiah31:5 Like birds hovering, so will the Lord of hosts defend Jerusalem; He will protect and deliver it, He will pass over and spare and preserve it." 
Isaiah31:6 Return, O children of Israel, to Him against Whom you have so deeply plunged into revolt." 
Isaiah31:7 For in that day every man of you will cast away [in contempt and disgust] his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your own hands have sinfully made for you." 
Isaiah31:8 Then the Assyrian shall fall by a sword not of man; and a sword, not of men [but of God], shall devour him. And he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be subjected to forced labor." 
Isaiah31:9 [In his flight] he shall pass beyond his rock [refuge and stronghold] because of terror; even his officers shall desert the standard in fear and panic, says the Lord, Whose fire is in Zion and Whose furnace is in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah32:1 BEHOLD, A King will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule with justice." 
Isaiah32:2 And each one of them shall be like a hiding place from the wind and a shelter from the storm, like streams of water in a dry place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land [to those who turn to them]." 
Isaiah32:3 Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed or dimmed, and the ears of those who hear will listen." 
Isaiah32:4 And the mind of the rash will understand knowledge and have good judgment, and the tongue of the stammerers will speak readily and plainly." 
Isaiah32:5 The fool (the unbeliever and the ungodly) will no more be called noble, nor the crafty and greedy [for gain] said to be bountiful and princely." 
Isaiah32:6 For the fool speaks folly and his mind plans iniquity: practicing profane ungodliness and speaking error concerning the Lord, leaving the craving of the hungry unsatisfied and causing the drink of the thirsty to fail." 
Isaiah32:7 The instruments and methods of the fraudulent and greedy [for gain] are evil; he devises wicked devices to ruin the poor and the lowly with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is just and right." 
Isaiah32:8 But the noble, openhearted, and liberal man devises noble things; and he stands for what is noble, openhearted, and generous." 
Isaiah32:9 Rise up, you women who are at ease! Hear my [Isaiah's] voice, you confident and careless daughters! Listen to what I am saying!" 
Isaiah32:10 In little more than a year you will be shaken with anxiety, you careless and complacent women; for the vintage will fail, and the ingathering will not come." 
Isaiah32:11 Tremble, you women who are at ease! Shudder with fear, you complacent ones! Strip yourselves bare and gird sackcloth upon your loins [in grief]!" 
Isaiah32:12 They shall beat upon their breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine," 
Isaiah32:13 For the land of my people growing over with thorns and briers,yes, for all the houses of joy in the joyous city." 
Isaiah32:14 For the palace shall be forsaken, the populous city shall be deserted; the hill and the watchtower shall become dens [for wild animals] endlessly, a joy for wild donkeys, a pasture for flocks," 
Isaiah32:15 Until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is valued as a forest. [Ps. 104:30; Ezek. 36:26, 27; 39:29; Zech. 12:10.]" 
Isaiah32:16 Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation) will abide in the fruitful field." 
Isaiah32:17 And the effect of righteousness will be peace [internal and external], and the result of righteousness will be quietness and confident trust forever." 
Isaiah32:18 My people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, in safe dwellings, and in quiet resting-places." 
Isaiah32:19 But it [the wrath of the Lord] shall hail, coming down overpoweringly on the forest [the army of the Assyrians], and the capital city shall be utterly humbled and laid prostrate." 
Isaiah32:20 Happy and fortunate are you who cast your seed upon all waters [when the river overflows its banks; for the seed will sink into the mud and when the waters subside, the plant will spring up; you will find it after many days and reap an abundant harvest], you who safely send forth the ox and the donkey [to range freely]." 
Isaiah33:1 WOE TO you, O destroyer, you who were not yourself destroyed, who deal treacherously though they [your victims] did not deal treacherously with you! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have stopped dealing treacherously, they will deal treacherously with you." 
Isaiah33:2 O Lord, be gracious to us; we have waited [expectantly] for You. Be the arm [of Your servants,their strength and defense] every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble." 
Isaiah33:3 At the noise of the tumult [caused by Your voice at which the enemy is overthrown], the peoples flee; at the lifting up of Yourself, nations are scattered." 
Isaiah33:4 And the spoil [of the Assyrians] is gathered [by the inhabitants of Jerusalem] as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap and run to and fro, so [the Jews spoil the Assyrians' forsaken camp as they] leap upon it." 
Isaiah33:5 The Lord is exalted, for He dwells on high; He will fill Zion with justice and righteousness (moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Isaiah33:6 And there shall be stability in your times, an abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge; the reverent fear and worship of the Lord is your treasure and His." 
Isaiah33:7 Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly." 
Isaiah33:8 The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceases. The enemy has broken the covenant, he has despised the cities and the witnesses, he regards no man." 
Isaiah33:9 The land mourns and languishes, Lebanon is confounded and [its luxuriant verdure] withers away; Sharon [a fertile pasture region south of Mount Carmel] is like a desert, and Bashan [a broad, fertile plateau east of the Jordan River] and [Mount] Carmel shake off their leaves." 
Isaiah33:10 Now will I arise, says the Lord. Now will I lift up Myself; now will I be exalted." 
Isaiah33:11 You conceive chaff, you bring forth stubble; your breath is a fire that consumes you." 
Isaiah33:12 And the people will be burned as if to lime, like thorns cut down that are burned in the fire." 
Isaiah33:13 Hear, you who are far off [says the Lord], what I have done; and you who are near, acknowledge My might!" 
Isaiah33:14 The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling seizes the godless ones. [They cry] Who among us can dwell with that devouring fire? Who among us can dwell with those everlasting burnings? 
Isaiah33:15 He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly, who despises gain from fraud and from oppression, who shakes his hand free from the taking of bribes, who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed and shuts his eyes to avoid looking upon evil." 
Isaiah33:16 [Such a man] will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given him; water for him will be sure. 
Isaiah33:17 Your eyes will see the King in His beauty; [your eyes] will behold a land of wide distances that stretches afar. 
Isaiah33:18 Your mind will meditate on the terror: [asking] Where is he who counted? Where is he who weighed the tribute? Where is he who counted the towers? 
Isaiah33:19 You will see no more the fierce and insolent people, a people of a speech too deep and obscure to be comprehended, of a strange and stammering tongue that you cannot understand." 
Isaiah33:20 Look upon Zion, the city of our set feasts and solemnities! Your eyes shall see Jerusalem, a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be taken down; not one of its stakes shall ever be pulled up, neither shall any of its cords be broken." 
Isaiah33:21 But there the Lord will be for us in majesty and splendor a place of broad rivers and streams, where no oar-propelled boat can go, and no mighty and stately ship can pass." 
Isaiah33:22 For the Lord is our Judge, the Lord is our Lawgiver, the Lord is our King; He will save us. [Isa. 2:3-4; 11:4; 32:1; James 4:12.]" 
Isaiah33:23 Your hoisting ropes hang loose; they cannot strengthen and hold firm the foot of their mast or keep the sail spread out. Then will prey and spoil in abundance be divided; even the lame will take the prey. 
Isaiah33:24 And no inhabitant [of Zion] will say, I am sick; the people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity and guilt." 
Isaiah34:1 COME NEAR, you nations, to hear; and hearken, you peoples! Let the earth hear, and all that is in it; the world, and all things that come forth from it." 
Isaiah34:2 For the Lord is indignant against all nations, and His wrath is against all their host. He has utterly doomed them, He has given them over to slaughter." 
Isaiah34:3 Their slain also shall be cast out, and the stench of their dead bodies shall rise, and the mountains shall flow with their blood." 
Isaiah34:4 All the host of the heavens shall be dissolved and crumble away, and the skies shall be rolled together like a scroll; and all their host [the stars and the planets] shall drop like a faded leaf from the vine, and like a withered fig from the fig tree. [Rev. 6:13, 14.]" 
Isaiah34:5 Because My sword has been bathed and equipped in heaven, behold, it shall come down upon Edom [the descendants of Esau], upon the people whom I have doomed for judgment. [Obad. 8-21.]" 
Isaiah34:6 The sword of the Lord is filled with blood [of sacrifices], it is gorged and greased with fatness,with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams. For the Lord has a sacrifice in Bozrah [capital of Edom] and a great slaughter in the land of Edom." 
Isaiah34:7 And the wild oxen shall fall with them, and the [young] bullocks with the [old and mighty] bulls; and their land shall be drunk and soaked with blood, and their dust made rich with fatness." 
Isaiah34:8 For the Lord has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense, for the cause of Zion." 
Isaiah34:9 And the streams [of Edom] will be turned into pitch and its dust into brimstone, and its land will become burning pitch." 
Isaiah34:10 [The burning of Edom] shall not be quenched night or day; its smoke shall go up forever. From generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it forever and ever. [Rev. 19:3.] 
Isaiah34:11 But the pelican and the porcupine will possess it; the owl and the bittern and the raven will dwell in it. And He will stretch over it [Edom] the measuring line of confusion and the plummet stones of chaos [over its nobles]. 
Isaiah34:12 They shall call its nobles to proclaim the kingdom, but nothing shall be there, and all its princes shall be no more." 
Isaiah34:13 And thorns shall come up in its palaces and strongholds, nettles and brambles in its fortresses; and it shall be a habitation for jackals, an abode for ostriches." 
Isaiah34:14 And the wild beasts of the desert will meet here with howling creatures [wolves and hyenas] and the [shaggy] wild goat will call to his fellow; the night monster will settle there and find a place of rest. 
Isaiah34:15 There shall the arrow snake make her nest and lay her eggs and hatch them and gather her young under her shade; there shall the kites be gathered [also to breed] every one with its mate. 
Isaiah34:16 Seek out of the book of the Lord and read: not one of these [details of prophecy] shall fail, none shall want and lack her mate [in fulfillment]. For the mouth [of the Lord] has commanded, and His Spirit has gathered them." 
Isaiah34:17 And He has cast the lot for them, and His hand has portioned [Edom] to [the wild beasts] by measuring line. They shall possess it forever; from generation to generation they shall dwell in it." 
Isaiah35:1 THE WILDERNESS and the dry land shall be glad; the desert shall rejoice and blossom like the rose and the autumn crocus. 
Isaiah35:2 It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice even with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the excellency of [Mount] Carmel and [the plain] of Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty and splendor and excellency of our God." 
Isaiah35:3 Strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble and tottering knees. [Heb. 12:12.] 
Isaiah35:4 Say to those who are of a fearful and hasty heart, Be strong, fear not! Behold, your God will come with vengeance; with the recompense of God He will come and save you." 
Isaiah35:5 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped." 
Isaiah35:6 Then shall the lame man leap like a hart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing for joy. For waters shall break forth in the wilderness and streams in the desert. [Matt. 11:5.]" 
Isaiah35:7 And the burning sand and the mirage shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water; in the haunt of jackals, where they lay resting, shall be grass with reeds and rushes." 
Isaiah35:8 And a highway shall be there, and a way; and it shall be called the Holy Way. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it shall be for the redeemed; the wayfaring men, yes, the simple ones and fools, shall not err in it and lose their way." 
Isaiah35:9 No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come up on it; they shall not be found there. But the redeemed shall walk on it." 
Isaiah35:10 And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing, and everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." 
Isaiah36:1 NOW IN the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. [II Kings 18:13, 17-37; II Chron. 32:9-19.]" 
Isaiah36:2 And the king of Assyria sent the Rabshakeh [the military official] from Lachish [the Judean fortress commanding the road from Egypt] to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem with a great army. And he stood by the canal of the Upper Pool on the highway to the Fuller's Field. 
Isaiah36:3 Then came out to meet him Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who was over the [royal] household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah son of Asaph, the recording historian." 
Isaiah36:4 And the Rabshakeh said to them, Say to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: What reason for confidence is this in which you trust?" 
Isaiah36:5 Do you suppose that mere words of the lips can pass for warlike counsel and strength? Now in whom do you trust and on whom do you rely, that you rebel against me? [II Kings 18:7.]" 
Isaiah36:6 Behold, you trust in the staff of this bruised and broken reed, Egypt, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust and rely on him." 
Isaiah36:7 But if you say to me, We trust in and rely on the Lord our God,is it not He Whose high places and Whose altars Hezekiah has taken away, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, You shall worship before this altar? [II Kings 18:4, 5.]" 
Isaiah36:8 Now therefore, I pray you, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria and give him pledges, and I will give you two thousand horses,if you are able on your part to put riders on them." 
Isaiah36:9 How then can you repulse the attack of a single captain of the least of my master's servants, when you put your reliance on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?" 
Isaiah36:10 Moreover, is it without the Lord that I have now come up against this land to destroy it? The Lord said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it." 
Isaiah36:11 Then Eliakim and Shebna and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, We pray you, speak to your servants in the Aramaic or Syrian language, for we understand it; and do not speak to us in the language of the Jews in the hearing of the people on the wall." 
Isaiah36:12 But the Rabshakeh said, Has my master sent me to speak these words only to your master and to you? Has he not sent me to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own urine?" 
Isaiah36:13 Then the Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in the language of the Jews: Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria!" 
Isaiah36:14 Thus says the king: Let not Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you." 
Isaiah36:15 Nor let Hezekiah make you trust in and rely on the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliver us; this city will not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah36:16 Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me and come out to me; and eat every one from his own vine and every one from his own fig tree and drink every one the water of his own cistern," 
Isaiah36:17 Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards." 
Isaiah36:18 Beware lest Hezekiah persuade and mislead you by saying, The Lord will deliver us. Has any one of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?" 
Isaiah36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad [in Syria]? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim [a place from which the Assyrians brought colonists to inhabit evacuated Samaria]? And have [the gods] delivered Samaria [capital of the ten northern tribes of Israel] out of my hand? 
Isaiah36:20 Who among all the gods of these lands has delivered his land out of my hand, that [you should think that] the Lord can deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?" 
Isaiah36:21 But they kept still and answered him not a word, for the king's [Hezekiah's] command was, Do not answer him." 
Isaiah36:22 Then Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah son of Asaph, the recording historian came to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of the Rabshakeh [the Assyrian military official]." 
Isaiah37:1 AND WHEN King Hezekiah heard it, he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord. [II Kings 19:1-13.]" 
Isaiah37:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the [royal] household, and Shebna the secretary, and the older priests, clothed with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz." 
Isaiah37:3 And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah: This day is a day of trouble and distress and of rebuke and of disgrace; for children have come to the birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth." 
Isaiah37:4 It may be that the Lord your God will hear the words of the Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria, his master, has sent to mock, reproach, insult, and defy the living God, and will rebuke the words which the Lord your God has heard. Therefore lift up your prayer for the remnant [of His people] that is left." 
Isaiah37:5 So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
Isaiah37:6 And Isaiah said to them, You shall say to your master, Thus says the Lord: Do not be afraid because of the words which you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have reviled and blasphemed Me." 
Isaiah37:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him so that he will hear a rumor and return to his own land, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land." 
Isaiah37:8 So the Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah [a fortified city of Judah]; for he had heard that the king had departed from Lachish. 
Isaiah37:9 And [Sennacherib king of Assyria] heard concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He has come forth to make war with you. And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying," 
Isaiah37:10 Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: Let not your God in Whom you trust deceive you by saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah37:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, destroying them utterly. And shall you be delivered?" 
Isaiah37:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered those whom my predecessors have destroyed, as Gozan, Haran [of Mesopotamia], Rezeph, and the children of Eden who were in Telassar?" 
Isaiah37:13 Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad [of northern Syria], and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena, or the king of Ivvah?" 
Isaiah37:14 And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up to the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. [II Kings 19:14-19.] 
Isaiah37:15 And Hezekiah prayed to the Lord: 
Isaiah37:16 O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, Who [in symbol] are enthroned above the cherubim [of the ark in the temple], You are the God, You alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth." 
Isaiah37:17 Incline Your ear, O Lord, and hear; open Your eyes, O Lord, and see; and hear all the words of Sennacherib which he has sent to mock, reproach, insult, and defy the living God." 
Isaiah37:18 It is true, Lord, that the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations and their lands" 
Isaiah37:19 And have cast the gods of those peoples into the fire, for they were not gods but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they have destroyed them." 
Isaiah37:20 Now therefore, O Lord our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know (understand and realize) that You are the Lord, even You only." 
Isaiah37:21 Then Isaiah son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Because you have prayed to Me against Sennacherib king of Assyria, [II Kings 19:20-37; II Chron. 32:20-21.]" 
Isaiah37:22 This is the word which the Lord has spoken concerning him: The Virgin Daughter of Zion has despised you and laughed you to scorn; the Daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head behind you. 
Isaiah37:23 Whom have you mocked and reviled [insulted and blasphemed]? And against Whom have you raised your voice and haughtily lifted your eyes? Against the Holy One of Israel! 
Isaiah37:24 By your servants you have mocked, reproached, insulted, and defied the Lord, and you have said, With my many chariots I have gone up to the height of the mountains, to the inner recesses of Lebanon. I cut down its tallest cedars and its choicest cypress trees; I came to its remotest height, its most luxuriant and dense forest;" 
Isaiah37:25 I dug wells and drank foreign waters, and with the sole of my feet I have dried up all the rivers [the Nile streams] of Egypt." 
Isaiah37:26 [But, says the God of Israel] have you not heard that I purposed to do it long ago, that I planned it in ancient times? Now I have brought it to pass, that you [king of Assyria] should [be My instrument to] lay waste fortified cities, making them ruinous heaps." 
Isaiah37:27 Therefore their inhabitants had little power, they were dismayed and confounded; they were like the grass of the field and like the green herb, like the grass on the housetops and like a field of grain blasted before it is grown or is in stalk." 
Isaiah37:28 But I [the Lord] know your sitting down and your going out and your coming in and your raging against Me. 
Isaiah37:29 Because your raging against Me and your arrogance and careless ease have come to My ears, therefore will I put My hook in your nose and My bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way you came." 
Isaiah37:30 And [now, Hezekiah, says the Lord] this shall be the sign [of these things] to you: you shall eat this year what grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs from the same. And in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards and eat the fruit of them." 
Isaiah37:31 And the remnant that has survived of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
Isaiah37:32 For out of Jerusalem will go forth a remnant, and a band that survives out of Mount Zion. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this." 
Isaiah37:33 Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow here or come before it with shield or cast up a siege mound against it. 
Isaiah37:34 By the way that he came, by the same way he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, says the Lord." 
Isaiah37:35 For I will defend this city to save it, for My own sake and for the sake of My servant David." 
Isaiah37:36 And the Angel of the Lord went forth, and slew 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians; and when [the living] arose early in the morning, behold, all these were dead bodies. [II Kings 19:35.]" 
Isaiah37:37 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned and dwelt at Nineveh. 
Isaiah37:38 And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons killed him with the sword, and they escaped into the land of Armenia or Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead." 
Isaiah38:1 IN THOSE days King Hezekiah of Judah became ill and was at the point of death. And Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, came to him and said, Thus says the Lord: Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live. [II Kings 20:1-11; II Chron. 32:24-26.]" 
Isaiah38:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord 
Isaiah38:3 And said, Remember [earnestly] now, O Lord, I beseech You, how I have walked before You in faithfulness and in truth, with a whole heart [absolutely devoted to You], and have done what is good in Your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly." 
Isaiah38:4 Then came the word of the Lord to Isaiah, saying," 
Isaiah38:5 Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus says the Lord, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will add to your life fifteen years." 
Isaiah38:6 And I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city [Jerusalem]. 
Isaiah38:7 And this will be the sign to you from the Lord that the Lord will do this thing that He has spoken: 
Isaiah38:8 Behold, I will turn the shadow [denoting the time of day] on the steps or degrees, which has gone down on the steps or sundial of Ahaz, backward ten steps or degrees. And the sunlight turned back ten steps on the steps on which it had gone down." 
Isaiah38:9 This is the writing of Hezekiah king of Judah after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness: 
Isaiah38:10 I said, In the noontide and tranquillity of my days I must depart; I am to pass through the gates of Sheol (the place of the dead), deprived of the remainder of my years." 
Isaiah38:11 I said, I shall not see the Lord, even the Lord, in the land of the living; I shall behold man no more among the inhabitants of the world." 
Isaiah38:12 My [fleshly] dwelling is plucked up and is removed from me like a shepherd's tent. I have rolled up my life as a weaver [rolls up the finished web]; [the Lord] cuts me free from the loom; from day to night You bring me to an end. 
Isaiah38:13 I thought and quieted myself until morning. Like a lion He breaks all my bones; from day to night You bring me to an end. 
Isaiah38:14 Like a twittering swallow or a crane, so do I chirp and chatter; I moan like a dove. My eyes are weary and dim with looking upward. O Lord, I am oppressed; take my side and be my security [as of a debtor being sent to prison]." 
Isaiah38:15 But what can I say? For He has both spoken to me and He Himself has done it. I must go softly [as in solemn procession] all my years and my sleep has fled because of the bitterness of my soul. 
Isaiah38:16 O Lord, by these things men live; and in all these is the life of my spirit. O give me back my health and make me live!" 
Isaiah38:17 Behold, it was for my peace that I had intense bitterness; but You have loved back my life from the pit of corruption and nothingness, for You have cast all my sins behind Your back." 
Isaiah38:18 For Sheol (the place of the dead) cannot confess and reach out the hand to You, death cannot praise and rejoice in You; they who go down to the pit cannot hope for Your faithfulness [to Your promises; their probation is at an end, their destiny is sealed]." 
Isaiah38:19 The living, the living,they shall thank and praise You, as I do this day; the father shall make known to the children Your faithfulness and Your truth." 
Isaiah38:20 The Lord is ready to save (deliver) me; therefore we will sing my songs with [my] stringed instruments all the days of our lives in the house of the Lord. 
Isaiah38:21 Now Isaiah had said, Let them take a cake of figs and lay it for a plaster upon the boil, that he may recover." 
Isaiah38:22 Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the Lord?" 
Isaiah39:1 AT THAT time Merodach-baladan son of Baladan king of Babylon sent [messengers with] letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he had heard that he had been sick and had recovered. [II Kings 20:12-19.]" 
Isaiah39:2 And Hezekiah was glad and welcomed them and showed them the house of his spices and precious things,the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious ointment, all the house of his armor and his jewels, and all that was found in his treasuries. There was nothing in his house nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them." 
Isaiah39:3 Then came Isaiah the prophet to King Hezekiah and said to him, What did these men say? From where did they come to you? And Hezekiah said, They came to me from a far country, even from Babylon." 
Isaiah39:4 Then Isaiah said, What have they seen in your house? And Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them." 
Isaiah39:5 Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the Lord of hosts:" 
Isaiah39:6 Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house, and that which your predecessors have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the Lord." 
Isaiah39:7 And some of your own sons who are born to you shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon." 
Isaiah39:8 Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, The word of the Lord which you have spoken is good. And he added, For there will be peace and faithfulness [to His promises to us] in my days." 
Isaiah40:1 COMFORT, COMFORT My people, says your God." 
Isaiah40:2 Speak tenderly to the heart of Jerusalem, and cry to her that her time of service and her warfare are ended, that [her punishment is accepted and] her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received [punishment] from the Lord's hand double for all her sins." 
Isaiah40:3 A voice of one who cries: Prepare in the wilderness the way of the Lord [clear away the obstacles]; make straight and smooth in the desert a highway for our God! [Mark 1:3.] 
Isaiah40:4 Every valley shall be lifted and filled up, and every mountain and hill shall be made low; and the crooked and uneven shall be made straight and level, and the rough places a plain." 
Isaiah40:5 And the glory (majesty and splendor) of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. [Luke 3:5, 6.]" 
Isaiah40:6 A voice says, Cry [prophesy]! And I said, What shall I cry? [The voice answered, Proclaim:] All flesh is as frail as grass, and all that makes it attractive [its kindness, its goodwill, its mercy from God, its glory and comeliness, however good] is transitory, like the flower of the field." 
Isaiah40:7 The grass withers, the flower fades, when the breath of the Lord blows upon it; surely [all] the people are like grass." 
Isaiah40:8 The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. [James 1:10, 11; I Pet. 1:24, 25.]" 
Isaiah40:9 O you who bring good tidings to Zion, get up to the high mountain. O you who bring good tidings to Jerusalem, lift up your voice with strength, lift it up, be not afraid; say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God! [Acts 10:36; Rom. 10:15.]" 
Isaiah40:10 Behold, the Lord God will come with might, and His arm will rule for Him. Behold, His reward is with Him, and His recompense before Him. [Rev. 22:7, 12.]" 
Isaiah40:11 He will feed His flock like a shepherd: He will gather the lambs in His arm, He will carry them in His bosom and will gently lead those that have their young." 
Isaiah40:12 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, marked off the heavens with a [nine-inch] span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance?" 
Isaiah40:13 Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord, or as His counselor has taught Him? [Rom. 11:34.]" 
Isaiah40:14 With whom did He take counsel, that instruction might be given Him? Who taught Him the path of justice and taught Him knowledge and showed Him the way of understanding?" 
Isaiah40:15 Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket and are counted as small dust on the scales; behold, He takes up the isles like a very little thing." 
Isaiah40:16 And all Lebanon's [forests] cannot supply sufficient fuel, nor all its wild beasts furnish victims enough to burn sacrifices [worthy of the Lord]." 
Isaiah40:17 All the nations are as nothing before Him; they are regarded by Him as less than nothing and emptiness (waste, futility, and worthlessness)." 
Isaiah40:18 To whom then will you liken God? Or with what likeness will you compare Him? [Acts 17:29.] 
Isaiah40:19 The graven image! A workman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts silver chains for it." 
Isaiah40:20 He who is so impoverished that he has no offering or oblation or rich gift to give [to his god is constrained to make a wooden offering, an idol; so he] chooses a tree that will not rot; he seeks out a skillful craftsman to carve and set up an image that will not totter or deteriorate." 
Isaiah40:21 [You worshipers of idols, you are without excuse.] Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been told you from the beginning? [These things ought to convince you of God's omnipotence and of the folly of bowing to idols.] Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? [Rom. 1:20, 21.]" 
Isaiah40:22 It is God Who sits above the circle (the horizon) of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; it is He Who stretches out the heavens like [gauze] curtains and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in," 
Isaiah40:23 Who brings dignitaries to nothing, Who makes the judges and rulers of the earth as chaos (emptiness, falsity, and futility)." 
Isaiah40:24 Yes, these men are scarcely planted, scarcely are they sown, scarcely does their stock take root in the earth, when [the Lord] blows upon them and they wither, and the whirlwind or tempest takes them away like stubble." 
Isaiah40:25 To whom then will you liken Me, that I should be equal to him? says the Holy One." 
Isaiah40:26 Lift up your eyes on high and see! Who has created these? He Who brings out their host by number and calls them all by name; through the greatness of His might and because He is strong in power, not one is missing or lacks anything." 
Isaiah40:27 Why, O Jacob, do you say, and declare, O Israel, My way and my lot are hidden from the Lord, and my right is passed over without regard from my God?" 
Isaiah40:28 Have you not known? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, does not faint or grow weary; there is no searching of His understanding." 
Isaiah40:29 He gives power to the faint and weary, and to him who has no might He increases strength [causing it to multiply and making it to abound]. [II Cor. 12:9.]" 
Isaiah40:30 Even youths shall faint and be weary, and [selected] young men shall feebly stumble and fall exhausted;" 
Isaiah40:31 But those who wait for the Lord [who expect, look for, and hope in Him] shall change and renew their strength and power; they shall lift their wings and mount up [close to God] as eagles [mount up to the sun]; they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint or become tired. [Heb. 12:1-3.]" 
Isaiah41:1 LISTEN IN silence before Me, O islands and regions bordering on the sea! And let the people gather and renew their strength [for the argument; let them offer their strongest arguments]! Let them come near, then let them speak; let us come near together for judgment [and decide the point at issue between us concerning the enemy advancing from the east]." 
Isaiah41:2 Who has roused up one [Cyrus] from the east, whom He calls in righteousness to His service and whom victory meets at every step? He [the Lord] subdues nations before him and makes him ruler over kings. He turns them to dust with the sword [of Cyrus], and to driven straw and chaff with his bow. [Ezra 1:2.]" 
Isaiah41:2 Who has roused up one [Cyrus] from the east, whom He calls in righteousness to His service and whom victory meets at every step? He [the Lord] subdues nations before him and makes him ruler over kings. He turns them to dust with the sword [of Cyrus], and to driven straw and chaff with his bow. [Ezra 1:2.]" 
Isaiah41:3 He [Cyrus] pursues them and passes safely and unhindered, even by a way his feet had not trod and so swiftly that his feet do not touch the ground." 
Isaiah41:4 Who has prepared and done this, calling forth and guiding the destinies of the generations [of the nations] from the beginning? I, the Lord,the first [existing before history began] and with the last [an ever-present, unchanging God],I am He." 
Isaiah41:5 The islands and coastlands have seen and fear; the ends of the earth tremble. They draw near and come; 
Isaiah41:6 They help every one his neighbor and say to his brother [in his tiresome idol making], Be of good courage!" 
Isaiah41:7 So the carpenter encourages the goldsmith, and he who smooths [the metal] with the hammer [encourages] him who smites the anvil, saying of the soldering, That is good! And he fastens it with nails so that it cannot be moved." 
Isaiah41:8 But you, Israel, My servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of Abraham My friend, [Heb. 2:16; James 2:23.]" 
Isaiah41:9 You whom I [the Lord] have taken from the ends of the earth and have called from the corners of it, and said to you, You are My servant,I have chosen you and not cast you off [even though you are exiled]." 
Isaiah41:10 Fear not [there is nothing to fear], for I am with you; do not look around you in terror and be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen and harden you to difficulties, yes, I will help you; yes, I will hold you up and retain you with My [victorious] right hand of rightness and justice. [Acts 18:10.]" 
Isaiah41:11 Behold, all they who are enraged and inflamed against you shall be put to shame and confounded; they who strive against you shall be as nothing and shall perish." 
Isaiah41:12 You shall seek those who contend with you but shall not find them; they who war against you shall be as nothing, as nothing at all." 
Isaiah41:13 For I the Lord your God hold your right hand; I am the Lord, Who says to you, Fear not; I will help you!" 
Isaiah41:14 Fear not, you worm Jacob, you men of Israel! I will help you, says the Lord; your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah41:15 Behold, I will make you to be a new, sharp, threshing instrument which has teeth; you shall thresh the mountains and beat them small, and shall make the hills like chaff." 
Isaiah41:16 You shall winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the tempest or whirlwind shall scatter them. And you shall rejoice in the Lord, you shall glory in the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah41:17 The poor and needy are seeking water when there is none; their tongues are parched with thirst. I the Lord will answer them; I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them." 
Isaiah41:18 I will open rivers on the bare heights, and fountains in the midst of the valleys; I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water." 
Isaiah41:19 I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, the myrtle, and the wild olive; I will set the cypress in the desert, the plane [tree] and the pine [tree] together," 
Isaiah41:20 That men may see and know and consider and understand together that the hand of the Lord has done this, that the Holy One of Israel has created it." 
Isaiah41:21 [You idols made by men's hands, prove your divinity!] Produce your cause [set forth your case], says the Lord. Bring forth your strong proofs, says the King of Jacob." 
Isaiah41:22 Let them bring them forth and tell us what is to happen. Let them tell us the former things, what they are, that we may consider them and know the outcome of them; or declare to us the things to come." 
Isaiah41:23 Tell us the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods; yes, do good or do evil [something or other], that we may stare in astonishment and be dismayed as we behold [the miracle] together!" 
Isaiah41:24 Behold, you [idols] are nothing, and your work is nothing! The worshiper who chooses you is an abomination [extremely disgusting and shamefully vile in God's sight]. [I Cor. 8:4.]" 
Isaiah41:25 I have raised up and impelled to action one from the north [Cyrus], and he comes; from the rising of the sun he calls upon My name [recognizing that his victories have been granted to him by Me]. And he shall tread upon rulers and deputies as upon mortar and as the potter treads clay. [He comes with the suddenness of a comet, but none of the idol oracles of the nations has anticipated it.] [II Chron. 36:23; Ezra 1:1-3.]" 
Isaiah41:25 I have raised up and impelled to action one from the north [Cyrus], and he comes; from the rising of the sun he calls upon My name [recognizing that his victories have been granted to him by Me]. And he shall tread upon rulers and deputies as upon mortar and as the potter treads clay. [He comes with the suddenness of a comet, but none of the idol oracles of the nations has anticipated it.] [II Chron. 36:23; Ezra 1:1-3.]" 
Isaiah41:26 [What idol] has declared this from the beginning, that we could know? And beforetime, that we could say that he is [unquestionably] right? Yes, there is none who declares it, yes, there is none who proclaims it; yes, [for the truth is, O you dumb idols] there is none who hears you speak!" 
Isaiah41:27 I [the Lord] first gave to Zion the announcement, Behold, [the Jews will be restored to their own land, and the man Cyrus shall be raised up who will deliver them] behold them! And to Jerusalem I gave a herald [Isaiah] bringing the good news. [Isa. 40:9; 52:7.]" 
Isaiah41:28 For I look [upon the heathen prophets and the priests of pagan practices] and there is no man among them [who could predict these events], and among these [idols] there is no counselor who, when I ask of him, can answer a word." 
Isaiah41:29 Behold, these [pagan prophets and priests] are all emptiness (falseness and futility)! Their works are worthless; their molten images are empty wind (confusion and waste)." 
Isaiah42:1 BEHOLD MY Servant, Whom I uphold, My elect in Whom My soul delights! I have put My Spirit upon Him; He will bring forth justice and right and reveal truth to the nations. [Matt. 3:16, 17.]" 
Isaiah42:2 He will not cry or shout aloud or cause His voice to be heard in the street. 
Isaiah42:3 A bruised reed He will not break, and a dimly burning wick He will not quench; He will bring forth justice in truth. [Matt. 12:17-21.]" 
Isaiah42:4 He will not fail or become weak or be crushed and discouraged till He has established justice in the earth; and the islands and coastal regions shall wait hopefully for Him and expect His direction and law. [Rom. 8:22-25.] 
Isaiah42:5 Thus says God the Lord,He Who created the heavens and stretched them forth, He Who spread abroad the earth and that which comes out of it, He Who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it:" 
Isaiah42:6 I the Lord have called You [the Messiah] for a righteous purpose and in righteousness; I will take You by the hand and will keep You; I will give You for a covenant to the people [Israel], for a light to the nations [Gentiles]," 
Isaiah42:7 To open the eyes of the blind, to bring out prisoners from the dungeon, and those who sit in darkness from the prison. [Matt. 12:18-21.]" 
Isaiah42:8 I am the Lord; that is My name! And My glory I will not give to another, nor My praise to graven images." 
Isaiah42:9 Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them." 
Isaiah42:10 Sing to the Lord a new song, and His praise from the end of the earth! You who go down to the sea, and all that is in it, the islands and coastal regions and the inhabitants of them [sing a song such as has never been heard in the heathen world]!" 
Isaiah42:11 Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voices, the villages that Kedar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of the rock [Sela or Petra] sing; let them shout from the tops of the mountains!" 
Isaiah42:12 Let them give glory to the Lord and declare His praise in the islands and coastal regions. 
Isaiah42:13 The Lord will go forth like a mighty man, He will rouse up His zealous indignation and vengeance like a warrior; He will cry, yes, He will shout aloud, He will do mightily against His enemies." 
Isaiah42:14 [Thus says the Lord] I have for a long time held My peace, I have been still and restrained Myself. Now I will cry out like a woman in travail, I will gasp and pant together." 
Isaiah42:15 I will lay waste the mountains and hills and dry up all their herbage; I will turn the rivers into islands, and I will dry up the pools." 
Isaiah42:16 And I will bring the blind by a way that they know not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known. I will make darkness into light before them and make uneven places into a plain. These things I have determined to do [for them]; and I will not leave them forsaken. 
Isaiah42:17 They shall be turned back, they shall be utterly put to shame, who trust in graven images, who say to molten images, You are our gods." 
Isaiah42:18 Hear, you deaf! And look, you blind, that you may see!" 
Isaiah42:19 Who is blind but My servant [Israel]? Or deaf like My messenger whom I send? Who is blind like the one who is at peace with Me [who has been admitted to covenant relationship with Me]? Yes, who is blind like the Lord's servant?" 
Isaiah42:20 You have seen many things, but you do not observe or apprehend their true meaning. His ears are open, but he hears not!" 
Isaiah42:21 It was the Lord's pleasure for His righteousness' sake [in accordance with a steadfast and consistent purpose] to magnify instruction and revelation and glorify them. 
Isaiah42:22 But this is a people robbed and plundered; they are all of them snared in holes and hidden in houses of bondage. They have become a prey, with no one to deliver them, a spoil, with no one to say, Restore them! [This shows the condition that will ensue as Israel's punishment for not recognizing the Servant of the Lord and the day of His visit among them.] [Luke19:41-44.]" 
Isaiah42:23 Who is there among you who will give ear to this? Who will listen and hear in the time to come? 
Isaiah42:24 Who gave up Jacob [the kingdom of Judah] for spoil, and [the kingdom of] Israel to the robbers? Was it not the Lord, He against Whom we [of Judah] have sinned and in Whose ways they [of Israel] would not walk, neither were they obedient to His law or His teaching?" 
Isaiah42:25 Therefore He poured out upon [Israel] the fierceness of His anger and the strength of battle. And it set him on fire round about, yet he knew not [the lesson of repentance which the Assyrian conquest was intended to teach]; it burned him, but he did not lay it to heart." 
Isaiah43:1 BUT NOW [in spite of past judgments for Israel's sins], thus says the Lord, He Who created you, O Jacob, and He Who formed you, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed you [ransomed you by paying a price instead of leaving you captives]; I have called you by your name; you are Mine." 
Isaiah43:2 When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they will not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned or scorched, nor will the flame kindle upon you." 
Isaiah43:3 For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior; I give Egypt [to the Babylonians] for your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba [a province of Ethiopia] in exchange [for your release]." 
Isaiah43:4 Because you are precious in My sight and honored, and because I love you, I will give men in return for you and peoples in exchange for your life." 
Isaiah43:5 Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your offspring from the east [where they are dispersed] and gather you from the west. [Acts 18:10.]" 
Isaiah43:6 I will say to the north, Give up! and to the south, Keep not back. Bring My sons from afar and My daughters from the ends of the earth," 
Isaiah43:7 Even everyone who is called by My name, whom I have created for My glory, whom I have formed, whom I have made." 
Isaiah43:8 Bring forth the blind people who have eyes and the deaf who have ears. 
Isaiah43:9 Let all the nations be gathered together and let the peoples be assembled. Who among [the idolaters] could predict this [that Cyrus would be the deliverer of Israel] and show us the former things? Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified, or let them hear and acknowledge, It is the truth. [Ps. 123:3, 4.]" 
Isaiah43:10 You are My witnesses, says the Lord, and My servant whom I have chosen, that you may know Me, believe Me and remain steadfast to Me, and understand that I am He. Before Me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after Me." 
Isaiah43:11 I, even I, am the Lord, and besides Me there is no Savior." 
Isaiah43:12 I have declared [the future] and have saved [the nation in times of danger], and I have shown [that I am God],when there was no strange and alien god among you; therefore you are My witnesses, says the Lord, that I am God." 
Isaiah43:13 Yes, from the time of the first existence of day and from this day forth I am He; and there is no one who can deliver out of My hand. I will work, and who can hinder or reverse it?" 
Isaiah43:14 Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent [one] to Babylon, and I will bring down all of them as fugitives, [with] all their nobles, even the Chaldeans, into the ships over which they rejoiced." 
Isaiah43:15 I am the Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King." 
Isaiah43:16 Thus says the Lord, Who makes a way through the sea and a path through the mighty waters," 
Isaiah43:17 Who brings forth chariot and horse, army and mighty warrior. They lie down together, they cannot rise; they are extinguished, they are quenched like a lampwick:" 
Isaiah43:18 Do not [earnestly] remember the former things; neither consider the things of old. 
Isaiah43:19 Behold, I am doing a new thing! Now it springs forth; do you not perceive and know it and will you not give heed to it? I will even make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert." 
Isaiah43:20 The beasts of the field honor Me, the jackals and the ostriches, because I give waters in the wilderness and rivers in the desert, to give drink to My people, My chosen, [Isa. 41:17, 18; 48:21.]" 
Isaiah43:21 The people I formed for Myself, that they may set forth My praise [and they shall do it]." 
Isaiah43:22 Yet you have not called upon Me [much less toiled for Me], O Jacob; but you have been weary of Me, O Israel!" 
Isaiah43:23 You have not brought Me your sheep and goats for burnt offerings, or honored Me with your sacrifices. I have not required you to serve with an offering or treated you as a slave by demanding tribute or wearied you with offering incense." 
Isaiah43:24 You have not bought Me sweet cane with money, or satiated Me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have only burdened Me with your sins; you have wearied Me with your iniquities." 
Isaiah43:25 I, even I, am He Who blots out and cancels your transgressions, for My own sake, and I will not remember your sins." 
Isaiah43:26 Put Me in remembrance [remind Me of your merits]; let us plead and argue together. Set forth your case, that you may be justified (proved right)." 
Isaiah43:27 Your first father [Jacob, in particular] sinned, and your teachers [the priests and the prophets,your mediators] transgressed against Me." 
Isaiah43:28 And so I will profane the chief ones of the sanctuary and will deliver Jacob to the curse (the ban, a solemn anathema or excommunication) and [will subject] Israel to reproaches and reviling." 
Isaiah44:1 YET NOW hear, O Jacob, My servant and Israel, whom I have chosen." 
Isaiah44:2 Thus says the Lord, Who made you and formed you from the womb, Who will help you: Fear not, O Jacob, My servant, and you Jeshurun [the upright one,applied to Israel as a type of the Messiah], whom I have chosen." 
Isaiah44:3 For I will pour water upon him who is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground. I will pour My Spirit upon your offspring, and My blessing upon your descendants. [Isa. 32:15; 35:6, 7; Joel 2:28; John 7:37-39.]" 
Isaiah44:3 For I will pour water upon him who is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground. I will pour My Spirit upon your offspring, and My blessing upon your descendants. [Isa. 32:15; 35:6, 7; Joel 2:28; John 7:37-39.]" 
Isaiah44:4 And they shall spring up among the grass like willows or poplars by the watercourses. 
Isaiah44:5 One will say, I am the Lord's; and another will call himself by the name of Jacob; and another will write [even brand or tattoo] upon his hand, I am the Lord's, and surname himself by the [honorable] name of Israel." 
Isaiah44:6 Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts: I am the First and I am the Last; besides Me there is no God. [Rev. 1:17; 2:8; 22:13.]" 
Isaiah44:7 Who is like Me? Let him [stand and] proclaim it, declare it, and set [his proofs] in order before Me, since I made and established the people of antiquity. [Who has announced from of old] the things that are coming? Then let them declare yet future things." 
Isaiah44:8 Fear not, nor be afraid [in the coming violent upheavals]; have I not told it to you from of old and declared it? And you are My witnesses! Is there a God besides Me? There is no [other] Rock; I know not any." 
Isaiah44:9 All who make graven idols are confusion, chaos, and worthlessness. Their objects (idols) in which they delight do not profit them, and their own witnesses (worshipers) do not see or know, so that they are put to shame." 
Isaiah44:10 Who is [such a fool as] to fashion a god or cast a graven image that is profitable for nothing? 
Isaiah44:11 Behold, all his fellows shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen, [how can they make a god?] they are but men. Let them all be gathered together, let them stand forth; they shall be terrified, they shall be put to shame together." 
Isaiah44:12 The ironsmith sharpens and uses a chisel and works it over the coals; he shapes [the core of the idol] with hammers and forges it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint. 
Isaiah44:13 The carpenter stretches out a line, he marks it out with a pencil or red ocher; he fashions [an idol] with planes and marks it out with the compasses; and he shapes it to have the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, that it may dwell in a house." 
Isaiah44:14 He hews for himself cedars, and takes the holm tree and the oak and lets them grow strong for himself among the trees of the forest; he plants a fir tree or an ash, and the rain nourishes it." 
Isaiah44:15 Then it becomes fuel for a man to burn; a part of it he takes and warms himself, yes, he kindles a fire and bakes bread. [Then out of the remainder, the leavings] he also makes a god and worships it! He [with his own hands] makes it into a graven image and falls down and worships it!" 
Isaiah44:16 He burns part of the wood in the fire; with part of it he [cooks and] eats flesh, he roasts meat and is satisfied. Also he warms himself and says, Aha! I am warm, I have seen the fire!" 
Isaiah44:17 And from what is left [of the log] he makes a god, his graven idol. He falls down to it, he worships it and prays to it and says, Deliver me, for you are my god!" 
Isaiah44:18 They do not know or understand, for their eyes God has let become besmeared so that they cannot see, and their minds as well so that they cannot understand." 
Isaiah44:19 And no one considers in his mind, nor has he knowledge and understanding [enough] to say [to himself], I have burned part of this log in the fire, and also I have baked bread on its coals and have roasted meat and eaten it. And shall I make the remainder of it into an abomination [the very essence of what is disgusting, detestable, and shamefully vile in the eyes of a jealous God]? Shall I fall down and worship the stock of a tree [a block of wood without consciousness or life]?" 
Isaiah44:20 That kind of man feeds on ashes [and finds his satisfaction in ashes]! A deluded mind has led him astray, so that he cannot release and save himself, or ask, Is not [this thing I am holding] in my right hand a lie?" 
Isaiah44:21 Remember these things [earnestly], O Jacob, O Israel, for you are My servant! I formed you, you are My servant; O Israel, you shall not be forgotten by Me." 
Isaiah44:22 I have blotted out like a thick cloud your transgressions, and like a cloud your sins. Return to Me, for I have redeemed you." 
Isaiah44:23 Sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it; shout, you depths of the earth; break forth into singing, you mountains, O forest and every tree in it! For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and He glorifies Himself in Israel." 
Isaiah44:24 Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, and He Who formed you from the womb: I am the Lord, Who made all things, Who alone stretched out the heavens, Who spread out the earth by Myself [who was with Me]?," 
Isaiah44:25 [I am the Lord] Who frustrates the signs and confounds the omens [upon which the false prophets' forecasts of the future are based] of the [boasting] liars and makes fools of diviners, Who turns the wise backward and makes their knowledge foolishness, [I Cor. 1:20.]" 
Isaiah44:26 [The Lord] Who confirms the word of His servant and performs the counsel of His messengers, Who says of Jerusalem, She shall [again] be inhabited, and of the cities of Judah, They shall [again] be built, and I will raise up their ruins," 
Isaiah44:27 Who says to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up your rivers," 
Isaiah44:28 Who says of Cyrus, He is My shepherd (ruler), and he shall perform all My pleasure and fulfill all My purpose,even saying of Jerusalem, She shall [again] be built, and of the temple, Your foundation shall [again] be laid." 
Isaiah45:1 THUS SAYS the Lord to His anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held to subdue nations before him, and I will unarm and ungird the loins of kings to open doors before him, so that gates will not be shut." 
Isaiah45:2 I will go before you and level the mountains [to make the crooked places straight]; I will break in pieces the doors of bronze and cut asunder the bars of iron. 
Isaiah45:3 And I will give you the treasures of darkness and hidden riches of secret places, that you may know that it is I, the Lord, the God of Israel, Who calls you by your name." 
Isaiah45:4 For the sake of Jacob My servant, and of Israel My chosen, I have called you by your name. I have surnamed you, though you have not known Me." 
Isaiah45:5 I am the Lord, and there is no one else; there is no God besides Me. I will gird and arm you, though you have not known Me," 
Isaiah45:6 That men may know from the east and the rising of the sun and from the west and the setting of the sun that there is no God besides Me. I am the Lord, and no one else [is He]." 
Isaiah45:7 I form the light and create darkness, I make peace [national well-being] and I create [physical] evil (calamity); I am the Lord, Who does all these things." 
Isaiah45:8 Let fall in showers, you heavens, from above, and let the skies rain down righteousness [the pure, spiritual, heaven-born possibilities that have their foundation in the holy being of God]; let the earth open, and let them [skies and earth] sprout forth salvation, and let righteousness germinate and spring up [as plants do] together; I the Lord have created it." 
Isaiah45:9 Woe to him who strives with his Maker!,a worthless piece of broken pottery among other pieces equally worthless [and yet presuming to strive with his Maker]! Shall the clay say to him who fashions it, What do you think you are making? or, Your work has no handles? [Rom. 9:20.]" 
Isaiah45:10 Woe to him [who complains against his parents that they have begotten him] who says to a father, What are you begetting? or to a woman, With what are you in travail?" 
Isaiah45:11 Thus says the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, and its Maker: Would you question Me about things to come concerning My children, and concerning the work of My hands [would you] command Me?" 
Isaiah45:12 I made the earth and created man upon it. I, with My hands, stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their host." 
Isaiah45:13 I will raise [Cyrus] up in righteousness [willing in every way that which is right and proper], and I will direct all his ways; he will build My city, and he will let My captives go, not for hire or for a bribe, says the Lord of hosts." 
Isaiah45:14 Thus says the Lord: The labor and wealth of Egypt and the merchandise of Ethiopia and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over to you and they shall be yours; they shall follow you; in chains [of subjection to you] they shall come over, and they shall fall down before you; they shall make supplication to you, saying, Surely God is with you, and there is no other, no God besides Him. [I Cor. 14:25.]" 
Isaiah45:15 Truly You are a God Who hides Himself, O God of Israel, the Savior." 
Isaiah45:16 They shall be put to shame, yes, confounded, all of them; they who are makers of idols shall go off into confusion together." 
Isaiah45:17 But Israel shall be saved by the Lord with an everlasting salvation; you shall not be put to shame or confounded to all eternity. [Heb. 5:9.] 
Isaiah45:18 For thus says the Lord,Who created the heavens, God Himself, Who formed the earth and made it, Who established it and did not create it to be a worthless waste; He formed it to be inhabited,I am the Lord, and there is no one else." 
Isaiah45:19 I have not spoken in secret, in a corner of the land of darkness; I did not call the descendants of Jacob [to a fruitless service], saying, Seek Me for nothing [but I promised them a just reward]. I, the Lord, speak righteousness (the truth,trustworthy, straightforward correspondence between deeds and words); I declare things that are right. [John 18:20.]" 
Isaiah45:20 Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, you survivors of the nations! They have no knowledge who carry about [in religious processions or into battle] their wooden idols and keep on praying to a god that cannot save." 
Isaiah45:21 Declare and bring forward your strong arguments [for praying to gods that cannot save]; yes, take counsel together. Who announced this [the rise of Cyrus and his conquests] beforehand (long ago)? [What god] declared it of old? Was it not I, the Lord? And there is no other God besides Me, a rigidly and uncompromisingly just and righteous God and Savior; there is none besides Me." 
Isaiah45:22 Look to Me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I am God, and there is no other." 
Isaiah45:23 I have sworn by Myself, the word is gone out of My mouth in righteousness and shall not return, that unto Me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear [allegiance]. [Rom. 14:11; Phil. 2:10, 11; Heb. 6:13.]" 
Isaiah45:24 Only in the Lord shall one say, I have righteousness (salvation and victory) and strength [to achieve]. To Him shall all come who were incensed against Him, and they shall be ashamed. [I Cor. 1:30, 31.]" 
Isaiah45:25 In the Lord shall all the offspring of Israel be justified (enjoy righteousness, salvation, and victory) and shall glory." 
Isaiah46:1 BEL BOWS down, Nebo stoops [gods of Babylon, whose idols are being carried off]; their idols are on the beasts [of burden] and on the cattle. These things that you carry about are loaded as burdens on the weary beasts." 
Isaiah46:2 [The gods] stoop, they bow down together; they cannot save [their own idols], but are themselves going into captivity." 
Isaiah46:3 Listen to Me [says the Lord], O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, you who have been borne by Me from your birth, carried from the womb:" 
Isaiah46:4 Even to your old age I am He, and even to hair white with age will I carry you. I have made, and I will bear; yes, I will carry and will save you." 
Isaiah46:5 To whom will you liken Me and make Me equal and compare Me, that we may be alike? [Isa. 40:18-20.]" 
Isaiah46:6 They lavish gold out of the cup or bag, weigh out silver on the scales, and hire a goldsmith, and he fashions it into a god; [then] they fall down, yes, they worship it!" 
Isaiah46:7 They bear it upon their shoulders [in religious processions or into battle]; they carry it and set it down in its place, and there it stands. It cannot move from its place. Even if one cries to it for help, yet [the idol] cannot answer or save him out of his distress." 
Isaiah46:8 [Earnestly] remember this, be ashamed and own yourselves guilty; bring it again to mind and lay it to heart, O you rebels!" 
Isaiah46:9 [Earnestly] remember the former things, [which I did] of old; for I am God, and there is no one else; I am God, and there is none like Me," 
Isaiah46:10 Declaring the end and the result from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all My pleasure and purpose," 
Isaiah46:11 Calling a ravenous bird from the east,the man [Cyrus] who executes My counsel from a far country. Yes, I have spoken, and I will bring it to pass; I have purposed it, and I will do it." 
Isaiah46:12 Listen to Me, you stiff-hearted and you who have lost heart, you who are far from righteousness (from uprightness and right standing with God, and from His righteous deliverance)." 
Isaiah46:13 I bring near My righteousness [in the deliverance of Israel], it will not be far off; and My salvation shall not tarry. And I will put salvation in Zion, for Israel My glory [yes, give salvation in Zion and My glory to Israel]." 
Isaiah47:1 COME DOWN, and sit in the dust, O Virgin Daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground [in abject humiliation]; there is no throne for you, O Daughter of the Chaldeans, for you shall no longer be called dainty and delicate." 
Isaiah47:2 Take the millstones [like the poorest female slave of the household does] and grind meal; take off your veil and uncover your hair. Remove your skirt, bare your leg, wade through the rivers [at the command of your captors]." 
Isaiah47:3 Your nakedness shall be exposed, and your shame shall be seen. I will take vengeance, and I will spare no man [none I encounter will be able to resist Me]," 
Isaiah47:4 [Says] our Redeemer,the Lord of hosts is His name,the Holy One of Israel. 
Isaiah47:5 Sit in silence and go into darkness, O Daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no more be called the lady and mistress of kingdoms." 
Isaiah47:6 I was angry with My people, I profaned My inheritance [Judah]; and I gave them into your hand [Babylon]. You showed them no mercy; upon the old people you made your yoke very heavy." 
Isaiah47:7 And you said, I shall be the mistress forever! So you did not lay these things to heart, nor did you [seriously] remember the certain, ultimate end of such conduct." 
Isaiah47:8 Therefore now, hear this, you who love pleasures and are given over to them, you who dwell safely and sit securely, who say in your mind, I am [the mistress] and there is no one else besides me. I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know the loss of children." 
Isaiah47:9 But these two things shall come to you in a moment, in one day: loss of children and widowhood. They shall come upon you in full measure, in spite of the multitude of [your claims to] power given you by the assistance of evil spirits, in spite of the great abundance of your enchantments. [Rev. 18:7, 8.]" 
Isaiah47:10 For you [Babylon] have trusted in your wickedness; you have said, No one sees me. Your wisdom and your knowledge led you astray, and you said in your heart and mind, I am, and there is no one besides me." 
Isaiah47:11 Therefore shall evil come upon you; you shall not know the dawning of it or how to charm it away. And a disaster and evil shall fall upon you that you shall not be able to atone for [with all your offerings to your gods]; and desolation shall come upon you suddenly, about which you shall know nothing or how to avert it." 
Isaiah47:12 Persist, then, with your enchantments and the multitude of your sorceries [Babylon], in which you have labored from your youth; and see if perhaps you will be able to profit, if you will prevail and strike terror!" 
Isaiah47:13 You are wearied with your many counsels and plans. Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, and the monthly prognosticators stand up and make known to you and save you from the things that shall come upon you [Babylon]." 
Isaiah47:14 Behold, they are like stubble; the fire consumes them. They cannot even deliver themselves from the power of the flame [much less deliver the nation]. There is no coal for warming or fire before which to sit!" 
Isaiah47:15 Such to you shall they [the astrologers and their kind] be, those with whom you have labored and such their fate, those who have done business with you from your youth; they will wander, every one to his own quarter and in his own direction. No one will save you." 
Isaiah48:1 HEAR THIS, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel and who come forth from the seed of Judah, you who swear allegiance by the name of the Lord and make mention of the God of Israel,but not in truth and sincerity, nor in righteousness (rightness and moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)," 
Isaiah48:2 For they call themselves [citizens] of the holy city and depend on the God of Israel,the Lord of hosts is His name. 
Isaiah48:3 I have declared from the beginning the former things [which happened in times past to Israel]; they went forth from My mouth and I made them known; then suddenly I did them, and they came to pass [says the Lord]." 
Isaiah48:4 Because I knew that you were obstinate, and your neck was an iron sinew and your brow was brass," 
Isaiah48:5 Therefore I have declared things to come to you from of old; before they came to pass I announced them to you, so that you could not say, My idol has done them, and my graven image and my molten image have commanded them." 
Isaiah48:6 You have heard [these things foretold], now you see this fulfillment. And will you not bear witness to it? I show you specified new things from this time forth, even hidden things [kept in reserve] which you have not known." 
Isaiah48:7 They are created now [called into being by the prophetic word], and not long ago; and before today you have never heard of them, lest you should say, Behold, I knew them!" 
Isaiah48:8 Yes, you have never heard, yes, you have never known; yes, from of old your ear has not been opened. For I, the Lord, knew that you, O house of Israel, dealt very treacherously; you were called a transgressor and a rebel [in revolt] from your birth." 
Isaiah48:9 For My name's sake I defer My anger, and for the sake of My praise I restrain it for you, that I may not cut you off." 
Isaiah48:10 Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have tried and chosen you in the furnace of affliction." 
Isaiah48:11 For My own sake, for My own sake, I do it [I refrain and do not utterly destroy you]; for why should I permit My name to be polluted and profaned [which it would be if the Lord completely destroyed His chosen people]? And I will not give My glory to another [by permitting the worshipers of idols to triumph over you]." 
Isaiah48:12 Listen to Me, O Jacob, and Israel, My called [ones]: I am He; I am the First, I also am the Last. [Isa. 41:4.]" 
Isaiah48:13 Yes, My hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and My right hand has spread out the heavens; when I call to them, they stand forth together [to execute My decrees]." 
Isaiah48:14 Assemble yourselves, all of you, and hear! Who among them [the gods and Chaldean astrologers] has foretold these things? The Lord has loved him [Cyrus of Persia]; he will do His pleasure and purpose on Babylon, and his arm will be against the Chaldeans." 
Isaiah48:15 I, even I, have foretold it; yes, I have called him [Cyrus]; I have brought him, and [the Lord] shall make his way prosperous." 
Isaiah48:16 Come near to me and listen to this: I have not spoken in secret from the beginning; from the time that it happened, I was there. And now the Lord God has sent His Spirit in and with me." 
Isaiah48:17 Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am the Lord your God, Who teaches you to profit, Who leads you in the way that you should go." 
Isaiah48:18 Oh, that you had hearkened to My commandments! Then your peace and prosperity would have been like a flowing river, and your righteousness [the holiness and purity of the nation] like the [abundant] waves of the sea." 
Isaiah48:19 Your offspring would have been like the sand, and your descendants like the offspring of the sea; their name would not be cut off or destroyed from before Me. [Gen. 13:16; Jer. 33:22; Luke 19:42.]" 
Isaiah48:20 Go forth out of Babylon, flee from the Chaldeans! With a voice of singing declare, tell this, cause it to go forth even to the end of the earth; say, The Lord has redeemed His servant Jacob!" 
Isaiah48:21 And they thirsted not when He led them through the deserts; He caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; He split the rock also, and the waters gushed out." 
Isaiah48:22 There is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked." 
Isaiah49:1 LISTEN TO me, O isles and coastlands, and hearken, you peoples from afar. The Lord has called me from the womb; from the body of my mother He has named my name." 
Isaiah49:2 And He has made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of His hand has He hid me and made me a polished arrow; in His quiver has He kept me close and concealed me. 
Isaiah49:3 And [the Lord] said to me, You are My servant, Israel [you who strive with God and with men and prevail], in whom I will be glorified. [Gen. 32:28; Deut. 7:6; 26:18, 19; Eph. 1:4-6.]" 
Isaiah49:4 Then I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing and in empty futility; yet surely my right is with the Lord, and my recompense is with my God." 
Isaiah49:5 And now, says the Lord,Who formed me from the womb to be His servant to bring Jacob back to Him and that Israel might be gathered to Him and not be swept away, for I am honorable in the eyes of the Lord and my God has become my strength," 
Isaiah49:6 He says, It is too light a thing that you should be My servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the survivors [of the judgments] of Israel; I will also give you for a light to the nations, that My salvation may extend to the end of the earth." 
Isaiah49:7 Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, Israel's Holy One, to him whom man rejects and despises, to him whom the nations abhor, to the servant of rulers: Kings shall see you and arise; princes, and they shall prostrate themselves, because of the Lord, Who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, Who has chosen you." 
Isaiah49:8 Thus says the Lord, In an acceptable and favorable time I have heard and answered you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you; and I will preserve you and give you for a covenant to the people, to raise up and establish the land [from its present state of ruin] and to apportion and cause them to inherit the desolate [moral wastes of heathenism, their] heritages, [II Cor. 6:2.]" 
Isaiah49:9 Saying to those who are bound, Come forth, and to those who are in [spiritual] darkness, Show yourselves [come into the light of the Sun of righteousness]. They shall feed in all the ways [in which they go], and their pastures shall be [not in deserts, but] on all the bare [grass-covered] hills." 
Isaiah49:10 They will not hunger or thirst, neither will mirage [mislead] or scorching wind or sun smite them; for He Who has mercy on them will lead them, and by springs of water will He guide them. [Rev. 7:16, 17.]" 
Isaiah49:11 And I will make all My mountains a way, and My highways will be raised up." 
Isaiah49:12 Behold, these shall come from afar,and, behold, these from the north and from the west, and these from the land of Sinim (China)." 
Isaiah49:13 Sing for joy, O heavens, and be joyful, O earth, and break forth into singing, O mountains! For the Lord has comforted His people and will have compassion upon His afflicted." 
Isaiah49:14 But Zion [Jerusalem, her people as seen in captivity] said, The Lord has forsaken me, and my Lord has forgotten me." 
Isaiah49:15 [And the Lord answered] Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yes, they may forget, yet I will not forget you." 
Isaiah49:16 Behold, I have indelibly imprinted (tattooed a picture of) you on the palm of each of My hands; [O Zion] your walls are continually before Me." 
Isaiah49:17 Your children and your builders make haste; your destroyers and those who laid you waste go forth from you. 
Isaiah49:18 Lift up your eyes round about and see [the returning exiles, ready to rebuild Jerusalem]; all these gather together and come to you. As I live, says the Lord, you [Zion] shall surely clothe yourself with them all as with an ornament and bind them on you as a bride does." 
Isaiah49:19 For your waste and desolate places and your land [once the scene] of destruction surely now [in coming years] will be too narrow to accommodate the population, and those who once swallowed you up will be far away." 
Isaiah49:20 The children of your bereavement [born during your captivity] shall yet say in your ears, The place is too narrow for me; make room for me, that I may live." 
Isaiah49:21 Then [Zion], you will say in your heart, Who has borne me all these children, seeing that I lost my offspring and am alone and barren and unfruitful, an exile put away and wandering hither and thither? And who brought them up? Behold, I was left alone [put away by the Lord, my Husband]; from where then did all these children come?" 
Isaiah49:22 Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will lift up My hand to the Gentile nations and set up My standard and raise high My signal banner to the peoples; and they will bring your sons in the bosom of their garments, and your daughters will be carried upon their shoulders." 
Isaiah49:23 And kings shall be your foster fathers and guardians, and their queens your nursing mothers. They shall bow down to you with their faces to the earth and lick up the dust of your feet; and you shall know [with an acquaintance and understanding based on and grounded in personal experience] that I am the Lord; for they shall not be put to shame who wait for, look for, hope for, and expect Me." 
Isaiah49:24 Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives of the just be delivered?" 
Isaiah49:25 For thus says the Lord: Even the captives of the mighty will be taken away, and the prey of the terrible will be delivered; for I will contend with him who contends with you, and I will give safety to your children and ease them." 
Isaiah49:26 And I will make those who oppress you consume themselves [in mutually destructive wars], thus eating their own flesh; and they will be drunk with their own blood, as with sweet wine; and all flesh will know [with a knowledge grounded in personal experience] that I, the Lord, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob." 
Isaiah50:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: Where is the bill of your mother's divorce with which I put her away, O Israel? Or which of My creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities you were sold, and for your transgressions was your mother put away." 
Isaiah50:2 Why, when I came, was there no man? When I called, why was there no one to answer? Is My hand shortened at all, that it cannot redeem? Or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at My rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a desert; their fish stink because there is no water, and they die of thirst." 
Isaiah50:3 I clothe the heavens with [the] blackness [of murky storm clouds], and I make sackcloth [of mourning] their covering." 
Isaiah50:4 [The Servant of God says] The Lord God has given Me the tongue of a disciple and of one who is taught, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. He wakens Me morning by morning, He wakens My ear to hear as a disciple [as one who is taught]." 
Isaiah50:5 The Lord God has opened My ear, and I have not been rebellious or turned backward." 
Isaiah50:6 I gave My back to the smiters and My cheeks to those who plucked off the hair; I hid not My face from shame and spitting. [Matt. 26:67; 27:30; John 19:1.] 
Isaiah50:7 For the Lord God helps Me; therefore have I not been ashamed or confounded. Therefore have I set My face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame. [Luke 9:51; Isa. 52:13; 53:10-12.]" 
Isaiah50:8 He is near Who declares Me in the right. Who will contend with Me? Let us stand forth together! Who is My adversary? Let him come near to Me. [Rom. 8:33-35; I Tim. 3:16.] 
Isaiah50:9 Behold, the Lord God will help Me; who is he who will condemn Me? Behold, they all will wax old and be worn out as a garment; the moth will eat them up. [Heb. 1:11, 12.]" 
Isaiah50:10 Who is among you who [reverently] fears the Lord, who obeys the voice of His Servant, yet who walks in darkness and deep trouble and has no shining splendor [in his heart]? Let him rely on, trust in, and be confident in the name of the Lord, and let him lean upon and be supported by his God." 
Isaiah50:11 Behold, all you [enemies of your own selves] who attempt to kindle your own fires [and work out your own plans of salvation], who surround and gird yourselves with momentary sparks, darts, and firebrands that you set aflame!,walk by the light of your self-made fire and of the sparks that you have kindled [for yourself, if you will]! But this shall you have from My hand: you shall lie down in grief and in torment. [Isa. 66:24.]" 
Isaiah51:1 HEARKEN TO Me, you who follow after rightness and justice, you who seek and inquire of [and require] the Lord [claiming Him by necessity and by right]: look to the rock from which you were hewn and to the hole in the quarry from which you were dug;" 
Isaiah51:2 Look to Abraham your father and to Sarah who bore you; for I called him when he was but one, and I blessed him and made him many." 
Isaiah51:3 For the Lord will comfort Zion; He will comfort all her waste places. And He will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and the voice of song or instrument of praise." 
Isaiah51:4 Listen to Me [the Lord], O My people, and give ear to Me, O My nation; for a [divine] law will go forth from Me, and I will establish My justice for a light to the peoples." 
Isaiah51:5 My rightness and justice are near, My salvation is going forth, and My arms shall rule the peoples; the islands shall wait for and expect Me, and on My arm shall they trust and wait with hope." 
Isaiah51:6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath; for the heavens shall be dissolved and vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner [like gnats]. But My salvation shall be forever, and My rightness and justice [and faithfully fulfilled promise] shall not be abolished. [Matt. 24:35; Heb. 1:11; II Pet. 3:10.]" 
Isaiah51:7 Listen to Me, you who know rightness and justice and right standing with God, the people in whose heart is My law and My instruction: fear not the reproach of men, neither be afraid nor dismayed at their revilings." 
Isaiah51:8 For [in comparison with the Lord they are so weak that things as insignificant as] the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool. But My rightness and justice [and faithfully fulfilled promise] shall be forever, and My salvation to all generations." 
Isaiah51:9 [Zion now cries to the Lord, the God of Israel] Awake, awake, put on strength and might, O arm of the Lord; awake, as in the ancient days, as in the generations of long ago. Was it not You Who cut Rahab [Egypt] in pieces, Who pierced the dragon [symbol of Egypt]? [Isa. 30:7.]" 
Isaiah51:10 Was it not You Who dried up the Red Sea, the waters of the great deep, Who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over? [Why then are we left so long in captivity?]" 
Isaiah51:11 [The Lord God says] And the redeemed of the Lord shall return and come with singing to Zion; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. [Rev. 7:17; 21:1, 4.]" 
Isaiah51:12 I, even I, am He Who comforts you. Who are you, that you should be afraid of man, who shall die, and of a son of man, who shall be made [as destructible] as grass," 
Isaiah51:13 That you should forget the Lord your Maker, Who stretched forth the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth, and fear continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor, when he makes ready to destroy or even though he did so? And where is the fury of the oppressor?" 
Isaiah51:14 The captive exile and he who is bent down by chains shall speedily be released; and he shall not die and go down to the pit of destruction, nor shall his food fail." 
Isaiah51:15 For I am the Lord your God, Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar and Who by rebuke restrains it,the Lord of hosts is His name." 
Isaiah51:16 And I have put My words in your mouth and have covered you with the shadow of My hand, that I may fix the [new] heavens as a tabernacle and lay the foundations of a [new] earth and say to Zion, You are My people. [Isa. 65:17; 66:22; Rev. 21:1.]" 
Isaiah51:17 Arouse yourself, awake! Stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk at the hand of the Lord the cup of His wrath, you who have drunk the cup of staggering and intoxication to the dregs." 
Isaiah51:18 There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne; neither is there anyone to take her by the hand among all the sons whom she has brought up. 
Isaiah51:19 Two kinds of calamities have befallen you,but who feels sorry for and commiserates you?,they are desolation and destruction [on the land and city], and famine and sword [on the inhabitants],how shall I comfort you or by whom?" 
Isaiah51:20 Your sons have fainted; they lie [like corpses] at the head of all the streets, like an antelope in a net; they are full [from drinking] of the wrath of the Lord, the rebuke of your God." 
Isaiah51:21 Therefore, now hear this, you who are afflicted, and [who are] drunk, but not with wine [but thrown down by the wrath of God]." 
Isaiah51:22 Thus says your Lord, the Lord, and your God, Who pleads the cause of His people: Behold, I have taken from your hand the cup of staggering and intoxication; the cup of My wrath you shall drink no more." 
Isaiah51:23 And I will put it into the hands of your tormentors and oppressors, those who said to you, Bow down, that we may ride or tread over you; and you have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over." 
Isaiah52:1 AWAKE, AWAKE, put on your strength, O Zion; put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; for henceforth there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean. [Rev. 21:27.]" 
Isaiah52:2 Shake yourself from the dust; arise, sit [erect in a dignified place], O Jerusalem; loose yourself from the bonds of your neck, O captive Daughter of Zion." 
Isaiah52:3 For thus says the Lord: You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money." 
Isaiah52:4 For thus says the Lord God: My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there; and [many years later Sennacherib] the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. [Now I delivered you from both Egypt and Assyria; what then can prevent Me from delivering you from Babylon?] 
Isaiah52:5 But now what have I here, says the Lord, seeing that My people have been taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them howl [with joy], says the Lord, and My name continually is blasphemed all day long. [Rom. 2:24.]" 
Isaiah52:6 Therefore My people shall know what My name is and what it means; therefore they shall know in that day that I am He who speaks; behold, I AM! [Exod. 3:13, 14.]" 
Isaiah52:7 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good tidings, who publishes peace, who brings good tidings of good, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns! [Acts 10:36; Rom. 10:15; Eph. 6:14-16.]" 
Isaiah52:8 Hark, your watchmen lift up their voices; together they sing for joy; for they shall see eye to eye the return of the Lord to Zion." 
Isaiah52:9 Break forth joyously, sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted His people, He has redeemed Jerusalem!" 
Isaiah52:10 The Lord has made bare His holy arm before the eyes of all the nations [revealing Himself as the One by Whose direction the redemption of Israel from captivity is accomplished], and all the ends of the earth shall witness the salvation of our God. [Luke 2:29-32; 3:6.]" 
Isaiah52:11 Depart, depart, go out from there [the lands of exile]! Touch no unclean thing! Go out of the midst of her [Babylon]; cleanse yourselves and be clean, you who bear the vessels of the Lord [on your journey from there]. [II Cor. 6:16, 17.]" 
Isaiah52:12 For you will not go out with haste, nor will you go in flight [as was necessary when Israel left Egypt]; for the Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard." 
Isaiah52:13 Behold, My Servant shall deal wisely and shall prosper; He shall be exalted and extolled and shall stand very high." 
Isaiah52:14 [For many the Servant of God became an object of horror; many were astonished at Him.] His face and His whole appearance were marred more than any man's, and His form beyond that of the sons of men,but just as many were astonished at Him," 
Isaiah52:15 So shall He startle and sprinkle many nations, and kings shall shut their mouths because of Him; for that which has not been told them shall they see, and that which they have not heard shall they consider and understand. [Rom. 15:21.]" 
Isaiah53:1 WHO HAS believed (trusted in, relied upon, and clung to) our message [of that which was revealed to us]? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been disclosed? [John 12:38-41; Rom. 10:16.]" 
Isaiah53:2 For [the Servant of God] grew up before Him like a tender plant, and like a root out of dry ground; He has no form or comeliness [royal, kingly pomp], that we should look at Him, and no beauty that we should desire Him." 
Isaiah53:3 He was despised and rejected and forsaken by men, a Man of sorrows and pains, and acquainted with grief and sickness; and like One from Whom men hide their faces He was despised, and we did not appreciate His worth or have any esteem for Him." 
Isaiah53:4 Surely He has borne our griefs (sicknesses, weaknesses, and distresses) and carried our sorrows and pains [of punishment], yet we [ignorantly] considered Him stricken, smitten, and afflicted by God [as if with leprosy]. [Matt. 8:17.]" 
Isaiah53:5 But He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our guilt and iniquities; the chastisement [needful to obtain] peace and well-being for us was upon Him, and with the stripes [that wounded] Him we are healed and made whole." 
Isaiah53:6 All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord has made to light upon Him the guilt and iniquity of us all. [I Pet. 2:24, 25.]" 
Isaiah53:7 He was oppressed, [yet when] He was afflicted, He was submissive and opened not His mouth; like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He opened not His mouth." 
Isaiah53:8 By oppression and judgment He was taken away; and as for His generation, who among them considered that He was cut off out of the land of the living [stricken to His death] for the transgression of my [Isaiah's] people, to whom the stroke was due?" 
Isaiah53:9 And they assigned Him a grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in His death, although He had done no violence, neither was any deceit in His mouth. [Matt. 27:57-60; I Pet. 2:22, 23.]" 
Isaiah53:10 Yet it was the will of the Lord to bruise Him; He has put Him to grief and made Him sick. When You and He make His life an offering for sin [and He has risen from the dead, in time to come], He shall see His [spiritual] offspring, He shall prolong His days, and the will and pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in His hand." 
Isaiah53:11 He shall see [the fruit] of the travail of His soul and be satisfied; by His knowledge of Himself [which He possesses and imparts to others] shall My [uncompromisingly] righteous One, My Servant, justify many and make many righteous (upright and in right standing with God), for He shall bear their iniquities and their guilt [with the consequences, says the Lord]." 
Isaiah53:12 Therefore will I divide Him a portion with the great [kings and rulers], and He shall divide the spoil with the mighty, because He poured out His life unto death, and [He let Himself] be regarded as a criminal and be numbered with the transgressors; yet He bore [and took away] the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors (the rebellious). [Luke 22:37.]" 
Isaiah54:1 SING, O barren one, you who did not bear; break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who did not travail with child! For the [spiritual] children of the desolate one will be more than the children of the married wife, says the Lord. [Gal. 4:27.]" 
Isaiah54:2 Enlarge the place of your tent, and let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out; spare not; lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes," 
Isaiah54:3 For you will spread abroad to the right hand and to the left; and your offspring will possess the nations and make the desolate cities to be inhabited. 
Isaiah54:4 Fear not, for you shall not be ashamed; neither be confounded and depressed, for you shall not be put to shame. For you shall forget the shame of your youth, and you shall not [seriously] remember the reproach of your widowhood any more." 
Isaiah54:5 For your Maker is your Husband,the Lord of hosts is His name,and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer; the God of the whole earth He is called. 
Isaiah54:6 For the Lord has called you like a woman forsaken, grieved in spirit, and heartsore,even a wife [wooed and won] in youth, when she is [later] refused and scorned, says your God." 
Isaiah54:7 For a brief moment I forsook you, but with great compassion and mercy I will gather you [to Me] again." 
Isaiah54:8 In a little burst of wrath I hid My face from you for a moment, but with age-enduring love and kindness I will have compassion and mercy on you, says the Lord, your Redeemer." 
Isaiah54:9 For this is like the days of Noah to Me; as I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so have I sworn that I will not be angry with you or rebuke you." 
Isaiah54:10 For though the mountains should depart and the hills be shaken or removed, yet My love and kindness shall not depart from you, nor shall My covenant of peace and completeness be removed, says the Lord, Who has compassion on you." 
Isaiah54:11 O you afflicted [city], storm-tossed and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in fair colors [in antimony to enhance their brilliance] and lay your foundations with sapphires." 
Isaiah54:12 And I will make your windows and pinnacles of [sparkling] agates or rubies, and your gates of [shining] carbuncles, and all your walls [of your enclosures] of precious stones. [Rev. 21:19-21.]" 
Isaiah54:13 And all your [spiritual] children shall be disciples [taught by the Lord and obedient to His will], and great shall be the peace and undisturbed composure of your children. [John 6:45.]" 
Isaiah54:14 You shall establish yourself in righteousness (rightness, in conformity with God's will and order): you shall be far from even the thought of oppression or destruction, for you shall not fear, and from terror, for it shall not come near you." 
Isaiah54:15 Behold, they may gather together and stir up strife, but it is not from Me. Whoever stirs up strife against you shall fall and surrender to you." 
Isaiah54:16 Behold, I have created the smith who blows on the fire of coals and who produces a weapon for its purpose; and I have created the devastator to destroy." 
Isaiah54:17 But no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper, and every tongue that shall rise against you in judgment you shall show to be in the wrong. This [peace, righteousness, security, triumph over opposition] is the heritage of the servants of the Lord [those in whom the ideal Servant of the Lord is reproduced]; this is the righteousness or the vindication which they obtain from Me [this is that which I impart to them as their justification], says the Lord." 
Isaiah55:1 WAIT and listen, everyone who is thirsty! Come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat! Yes, come, buy [priceless, spiritual] wine and milk without money and without price [simply for the self-surrender that accepts the blessing]. [Rev. 21:6, 7; 22:17.]" 
Isaiah55:2 Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your earnings for what does not satisfy? Hearken diligently to Me, and eat what is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness [the profuseness of spiritual joy]. [Jer. 31:12-14.]" 
Isaiah55:3 Incline your ear [submit and consent to the divine will] and come to Me; hear, and your soul will revive; and I will make an everlasting covenant or league with you, even the sure mercy (kindness, goodwill, and compassion) promised to David. [II Sam. 7:8-16; Acts 13:34; Heb. 13:20.]" 
Isaiah55:4 Behold, I have appointed him (Him) [David, as a representative of the Messiah, or the Messiah Himself] to be a witness [one (One) who shall testify of salvation] to the nations, a prince (Prince) and commander (Commander) to the peoples." 
Isaiah55:5 Behold, you [Israel] shall call nations that you know not, and nations that do not know you shall run to you because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for He has glorified you." 
Isaiah55:6 Seek, inquire for, and require the Lord while He may be found [claiming Him by necessity and by right]; call upon Him while He is near." 
Isaiah55:7 Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts; and let him return to the Lord, and He will have love, pity, and mercy for him, and to our God, for He will multiply to him His abundant pardon." 
Isaiah55:8 For My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways My ways, says the Lord." 
Isaiah55:9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are My ways higher than your ways and My thoughts than your thoughts." 
Isaiah55:10 For as the rain and snow come down from the heavens, and return not there again, but water the earth and make it bring forth and sprout, that it may give seed to the sower and bread to the eater, [II Cor. 9:10.]" 
Isaiah55:11 So shall My word be that goes forth out of My mouth: it shall not return to Me void [without producing any effect, useless], but it shall accomplish that which I please and purpose, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it." 
Isaiah55:12 For you shall go out [from the spiritual exile caused by sin and evil into the homeland] with joy and be led forth [by your Leader, the Lord Himself, and His word] with peace; the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands." 
Isaiah55:13 Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress tree, and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle tree; and it shall be to the Lord for a name of renown, for an everlasting sign [of jubilant exaltation] and memorial [to His praise], which shall not be cut off." 
Isaiah56:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: Keep justice, do and use righteousness (conformity to the will of God which brings salvation), for My salvation is soon to come and My righteousness (My rightness and justice) to be revealed. [Isa. 62:1, 11; Matt. 3:2; Luke 21:31; Rom. 13:11, 12.]" 
Isaiah56:2 Blessed, happy, and fortunate is the man who does this, and the son of man who lays hold of it and binds himself fast to it, who keeps sacred the Sabbath so as not to profane it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil." 
Isaiah56:3 Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord say, The Lord will surely separate me from His people. And let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree." 
Isaiah56:4 For thus says the Lord: To the eunuchs who keep My Sabbaths and choose the things which please Me and hold firmly My covenant, 
Isaiah56:5 To them I will give in My house and within My walls a memorial and a name better [and more enduring] than sons and daughters; I will give them an everlasting name that will not be cut off. 
Isaiah56:6 Also the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord to minister to Him and to love the name of the Lord and to be His servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath so as not to profane it and who holds fast My covenant [by conscientious obedience]," 
Isaiah56:7 All these I will bring to My holy mountain and make them joyful in My house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on My altar; for My house will be called a house of prayer for all peoples. 
Isaiah56:8 Thus says the Lord God, Who gathers the outcasts of Israel: I will gather yet others to [Israel] besides those already gathered." 
Isaiah56:9 All you beasts of the field, come to devour, all you beasts (hostile nations) in the forest." 
Isaiah56:10 [Israel's] watchmen are blind, they are all without knowledge; they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; dreaming, lying down, they love to slumber." 
Isaiah56:11 Yes, the dogs are greedy; they never have enough. And such are the shepherds who cannot understand; they have all turned to their own way, each one to his own gain, from every quarter [one and all]." 
Isaiah56:12 Come, say they, We will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselves with strong drink! And tomorrow shall be as this day, a day great beyond measure." 
Isaiah57:1 THE RIGHTEOUS man perishes, and no one lays it to heart; and merciful and devout men are taken away, with no one considering that the uncompromisingly upright and godly person is taken away from the calamity and evil to come [even through wickedness]." 
Isaiah57:2 He [in death] enters into peace; they rest in their beds, each one who walks straight and in his uprightness." 
Isaiah57:3 But come close, you sons of a sorceress [nursed in witchcraft and superstition], you offspring of an adulterer and a harlot." 
Isaiah57:4 Against whom do you make sport and take your delight? Against whom do you open wide your mouth and put out your tongue? Are you not yourselves the children of transgression, the offspring of deceit," 
Isaiah57:5 You who burn with lust [inflaming yourselves with idols] among the oaks, under every green tree, you who slay the children [in sacrifice] in the valleys under the clefts of the rocks?" 
Isaiah57:6 Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they [the idols] are your lot; to them you have poured out a drink offering, you have offered a cereal offering. Should I be quiet in spite of all these things [and leave them unpunished,bearing them with patience]?" 
Isaiah57:7 Upon a lofty and high mountain you have openly and shamelessly set your [idolatrous and adulterous] bed; even there you went up to offer sacrifice [in spiritual unfaithfulness to your divine Husband]. 
Isaiah57:8 Behind the door and the doorpost you have set up your [idol] symbol [as a substitute for the Scripture text God ordered]. Deserting Me, you have uncovered and ascended and enlarged your bed; and you have made a [fresh] bargain for yourself with [the adulterers], and you loved their bed, where you saw [a beckoning hand or a passion-inflaming image]. [Deut. 6:5, 6, 9; 11:18, 20.]" 
Isaiah57:9 And you went to the king [of foreign lands with gifts] or to Molech [the god] with oil and increased your perfumes and ointments; you sent your messengers far off and debased yourself even to Sheol (Hades) [symbol of an abysmal depth of degradation]. 
Isaiah57:10 You were wearied with the length of your way [in trying to find rest and satisfaction in alliances apart from the true God], yet you did not say, There is no result or profit. You found quickened strength; therefore you were not faint or heartsick [or penitent]." 
Isaiah57:11 Of whom have you been so afraid and in dread that you lied and were treacherous and did not [seriously] remember Me, did not even give Me a thought? Have I not been silent, even for a long time, and so you do not fear Me?" 
Isaiah57:12 I will expose your [pretended] righteousness and your doings, but they will not help you." 
Isaiah57:13 When you cry out, let your [rabble] collection of idols deliver you! But the wind shall take them all, a breath shall carry them away. But he who takes refuge in Me shall possess the land [Judea] and shall inherit My holy mountain [Zion, also the heavenly inheritance and the spiritual Zion]. [Ps. 37:9, 11; 69:35, 36; Isa. 49:8; Matt. 5:5; Heb. 12:22.]" 
Isaiah57:14 And the word of One shall go forth, Cast up, cast up, prepare the way! Take up the stumbling block out of the way [of the spiritual return] of My people." 
Isaiah57:15 For thus says the high and lofty One,He Who inhabits eternity, Whose name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place, but with him also who is of a thoroughly penitent and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the thoroughly penitent [bruised with sorrow for sin]. [Matt. 5:3.]" 
Isaiah57:16 For I will not contend forever, neither will I be angry always, for [if I did stay angry] the spirit [of man] would faint and be consumed before Me, and [My purpose in] creating the souls of men would be frustrated." 
Isaiah57:17 Because of the iniquity of his [Judah's] covetousness and unjust gain I was angry and smote him. I hid my face and was angry, and he went on turning away and backsliding in the way of his [own willful] heart." 
Isaiah57:18 I have seen his [willful] ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him also and will recompense him and restore comfort to him and to those who mourn for him. [Isa. 61:1, 2; 66:10.]" 
Isaiah57:19 Peace, peace, to him who is far off [both Jew and Gentile] and to him who is near! says the Lord; I create the fruit of his lips, and I will heal him [make his lips blossom anew with speech in thankful praise]. [Acts 2:39; Eph. 2:13-17, 18; Heb. 13:15.]" 
Isaiah57:20 But the wicked are like the troubled sea, for it cannot rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt." 
Isaiah57:21 There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked." 
Isaiah58:1 CRY ALOUD, spare not. Lift up your voice like a trumpet and declare to My people their transgression and to the house of Jacob their sins!" 
Isaiah58:2 Yet they seek, inquire for, and require Me daily and delight [externally] to know My ways, as [if they were in reality] a nation that did righteousness and forsook not the ordinance of their God. They ask of Me righteous judgments, they delight to draw near to God [in visible ways]." 
Isaiah58:3 Why have we fasted, they say, and You do not see it? Why have we afflicted ourselves, and You take no knowledge [of it]? Behold [O Israel], on the day of your fast [when you should be grieving for your sins], you find profit in your business, and [instead of stopping all work, as the law implies you and your workmen should do] you extort from your hired servants a full amount of labor. [Lev. 16:29.]" 
Isaiah58:4 [The facts are that] you fast only for strife and debate and to smite with the fist of wickedness. Fasting as you do today will not cause your voice to be heard on high. 
Isaiah58:5 Is such a fast as yours what I have chosen, a day for a man to humble himself with sorrow in his soul? [Is true fasting merely mechanical?] Is it only to bow down his head like a bulrush and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him [to indicate a condition of heart that he does not have]? Will you call this a fast and an acceptable day to the Lord?" 
Isaiah58:6 [Rather] is not this the fast that I have chosen: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every [enslaving] yoke? [Acts 8:23.]" 
Isaiah58:7 Is it not to divide your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house,when you see the naked, that you cover him, and that you hide not yourself from [the needs of] your own flesh and blood?" 
Isaiah58:8 Then shall your light break forth like the morning, and your healing (your restoration and the power of a new life) shall spring forth speedily; your righteousness (your rightness, your justice, and your right relationship with God) shall go before you [conducting you to peace and prosperity], and the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard. [Exod. 14:19, 20; Isa. 52:12.]" 
Isaiah58:9 Then you shall call, and the Lord will answer; you shall cry, and He will say, Here I am. If you take away from your midst yokes of oppression [wherever you find them], the finger pointed in scorn [toward the oppressed or the godly], and every form of false, harsh, unjust, and wicked speaking, [Exod. 3:14.]" 
Isaiah58:10 And if you pour out that with which you sustain your own life for the hungry and satisfy the need of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in darkness, and your obscurity and gloom become like the noonday." 
Isaiah58:11 And the Lord shall guide you continually and satisfy you in drought and in dry places and make strong your bones. And you shall be like a watered garden and like a spring of water whose waters fail not. 
Isaiah58:12 And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt; you shall raise up the foundations of [buildings that have laid waste for] many generations; and you shall be called Repairer of the Breach, Restorer of Streets to Dwell In." 
Isaiah58:13 If you turn away your foot from [traveling unduly on] the Sabbath, from doing your own pleasure on My holy day, and call the Sabbath a [spiritual] delight, the holy day of the Lord honorable, and honor Him and it, not going your own way or seeking or finding your own pleasure or speaking with your own [idle] words," 
Isaiah58:14 Then will you delight yourself in the Lord, and I will make you to ride on the high places of the earth, and I will feed you with the heritage [promised for you] of Jacob your father; for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. [Gen. 27:28, 29; 28:13-15.]" 
Isaiah59:1 BEHOLD, THE Lord's hand is not shortened at all, that it cannot save, nor His ear dull with deafness, that it cannot hear." 
Isaiah59:2 But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden His face from you, so that He will not hear." 
Isaiah59:3 For your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue mutters wickedness." 
Isaiah59:4 None sues or calls in righteousness [but for the sake of doing injury to others,to take some undue advantage]; no one goes to law honestly and pleads [his case] in truth; they trust in emptiness, worthlessness and futility, and speaking lies! They conceive mischief and bring forth evil!" 
Isaiah59:5 They hatch adders' eggs and weave the spider's web; he who eats of their eggs dies, and [from an egg] which is crushed a viper breaks out [for their nature is ruinous, deadly, evil]." 
Isaiah59:6 Their webs will not serve as clothing, nor will they cover themselves with what they make; their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands." 
Isaiah59:7 Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and destruction are in their paths and highways." 
Isaiah59:8 The way of peace they know not, and there is no justice or right in their goings. They have made them into crooked paths; whoever goes in them does not know peace. [Rom. 3:15-18.]" 
Isaiah59:9 Therefore are justice and right far from us, and righteousness and salvation do not overtake us. We expectantly wait for light, but [only] see darkness; for brightness, but we walk in obscurity and gloom." 
Isaiah59:10 We grope for the wall like the blind, yes, we grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble at noonday as in the twilight; in dark places and among those who are full of life and vigor, we are as dead men." 
Isaiah59:11 We all groan and growl like bears and moan plaintively like doves. We look for justice, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far from us." 
Isaiah59:12 For our transgressions are multiplied before You [O Lord], and our sins testify against us; for our transgressions are with us, and as for our iniquities, we know and recognize them [as]:" 
Isaiah59:13 Rebelling against and denying the Lord, turning away from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving in and muttering and moaning from the heart words of falsehood." 
Isaiah59:14 Justice is turned away backward, and righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) stands far off; for truth has fallen in the street (the city's forum), and uprightness cannot enter [the courts of justice]." 
Isaiah59:15 Yes, truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. And the Lord saw it, and it displeased Him that there was no justice." 
Isaiah59:16 And He saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no intercessor [no one to intervene on behalf of truth and right]; therefore His own arm brought Him victory, and His own righteousness [having the Spirit without measure] sustained Him. [Isa. 53:11; Col. 2:9; I John 2:1, 2.]" 
Isaiah59:17 For [the Lord] put on righteousness as a breastplate or coat of mail, and salvation as a helmet upon His head; He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and was clad with zeal [and furious divine jealousy] as a cloak. [Eph. 6:14, 17; I Thess. 5:8.]" 
Isaiah59:18 According as their deeds deserve, so will He repay wrath to His adversaries, recompense to His enemies; on the foreign islands and coastlands He will make compensation." 
Isaiah59:19 So [as the result of the Messiah's intervention] they shall [reverently] fear the name of the Lord from the west, and His glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord will lift up a standard against him and put him to flight [for He will come like a rushing stream which the breath of the Lord drives]. [Matt. 8:11; Luke 13:29.]" 
Isaiah59:20 He shall come as a Redeemer to Zion and to those in Jacob (Israel) who turn from transgression, says the Lord." 
Isaiah59:21 As for Me, this is My covenant or league with them, says the Lord: My Spirit, Who is upon you [and Who writes the law of God inwardly on the heart], and My words which I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouths of your [true, spiritual] children, or out of the mouths of your children's children, says the Lord, from henceforth and forever. [Jer. 31:33; Rom. 11:26, 27; Gal. 3:29; Heb. 12:22-24.]" 
Isaiah60:1 ARISE [from the depression and prostration in which circumstances have kept you,rise to a new life]! Shine (be radiant with the glory of the Lord), for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you! [Zech. 8:23.]" 
Isaiah60:2 For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and dense darkness [all] peoples, but the Lord shall arise upon you [O Jerusalem], and His glory shall be seen on you. [Isa. 60:19-22; Mal. 4:2; Rev. 21:2, 3.]" 
Isaiah60:3 And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. [Isa. 2:2, 3; Jer. 3:17.]" 
Isaiah60:4 Lift up your eyes round about you and see! They all gather themselves together, they come to you. Your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters shall be carried and nursed in the arms." 
Isaiah60:5 Then you shall see and be radiant, and your heart shall thrill and tremble with joy [at the glorious deliverance] and be enlarged; because the abundant wealth of the [Dead] Sea shall be turned to you, unto you shall the nations come with their treasures. [Ps. 119:32.]" 
Isaiah60:6 A multitude of camels [from the eastern trading tribes] shall cover you [Jerusalem], the young camels of Midian and Ephah; all the men from Sheba [who once came to trade] shall come, bringing gold and frankincense and proclaiming the praises of the Lord. [Matt. 2:11.]" 
Isaiah60:7 All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you [as the eastern pastoral tribes join the trading tribes], the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to you; they shall come up with acceptance on My altar, and My glorious house I will glorify." 
Isaiah60:8 Who are these who fly like a cloud, and like doves to their windows?" 
Isaiah60:9 Surely the isles and distant coastlands shall wait for and expect Me; and the ships of Tarshish [shall come] first, to bring your sons from afar, their silver and gold with them, for the name of the Lord your God, for the Holy One of Israel, because He has beautified and glorified you." 
Isaiah60:10 Foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to you; for in My wrath I smote you, but in My favor, pleasure, and goodwill I have had mercy, love, and pity for you." 
Isaiah60:11 And your gates shall be open continually, they shall not be shut day or night, that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations,and their kings led in procession [your voluntary captives]. [Rev. 21:24-27.]" 
Isaiah60:12 For the nation and kingdom that will not serve you in that day [Jerusalem] shall perish; yes, those nations shall be utterly laid waste." 
Isaiah60:13 The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plane, and the pine [trees] together, to beautify the place of My sanctuary; and I will make the place of My feet glorious." 
Isaiah60:14 The sons of those who afflicted you shall come bending low to you, and all those who despised you shall bow down at your feet, and they shall call you the City of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel. [Rev. 3:9.]" 
Isaiah60:15 Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, so that no man passed through you, I will make you [Jerusalem] an eternal glory, a joy from age to age." 
Isaiah60:16 You shall suck the milk of the [Gentile] nations and shall suck the breast of kings; and you shall recognize and know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob." 
Isaiah60:17 Instead of bronze I will bring gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver; and instead of wood, bronze, and instead of stones, iron. [Instead of the tyranny of the present] I will appoint peace as your officers and righteousness as your taskmasters." 
Isaiah60:18 Violence shall no more be heard in your land, nor devastation or destruction within your borders, but you shall call your walls Salvation and your gates Praise." 
Isaiah60:19 The sun shall no more be your light by day, nor for brightness shall the moon give light to you, but the Lord shall be to you an everlasting light, and your God your glory and your beauty. [Jer. 9:23, 24; Rev. 21:23.]" 
Isaiah60:20 Your sun shall no more go down, nor shall your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord shall be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning shall be ended." 
Isaiah60:21 Your people also shall all be [uncompromisingly and consistently] righteous; they shall possess the land forever, the branch of My planting, the work of My hands, that I may be glorified." 
Isaiah60:22 The least one shall become a thousand [a clan], and the small one a strong nation. I, the Lord, will hasten it in its [appointed] time." 
Isaiah61:1 THE SPIRIT of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed and qualified me to preach the Gospel of good tidings to the meek, the poor, and afflicted; He has sent me to bind up and heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the [physical and spiritual] captives and the opening of the prison and of the eyes to those who are bound, [Rom. 10:15.]" 
Isaiah61:2 To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord [the year of His favor] and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, [Matt. 11:2-6; Luke 4:18, 19; 7:22.]" 
Isaiah61:3 To grant [consolation and joy] to those who mourn in Zion,to give them an ornament (a garland or diadem) of beauty instead of ashes, the oil of joy instead of mourning, the garment [expressive] of praise instead of a heavy, burdened, and failing spirit,that they may be called oaks of righteousness [lofty, strong, and magnificent, distinguished for uprightness, justice, and right standing with God], the planting of the Lord, that He may be glorified." 
Isaiah61:4 And they shall rebuild the ancient ruins; they shall raise up the former desolations and renew the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations." 
Isaiah61:5 Aliens shall stand [ready] and feed your flocks, and foreigners shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers." 
Isaiah61:6 But you shall be called the priests of the Lord; people will speak of you as the ministers of our God. You shall eat the wealth of the nations, and the glory [once that of your captors] shall be yours. [Exod. 19:6; I Pet. 2:5; Rev. 1:6; 5:10; 20:6.]" 
Isaiah61:7 Instead of your [former] shame you shall have a twofold recompense; instead of dishonor and reproach [your people] shall rejoice in their portion. Therefore in their land they shall possess double [what they had forfeited]; everlasting joy shall be theirs. 
Isaiah61:8 For I the Lord love justice; I hate robbery and wrong with violence or a burnt offering. And I will faithfully give them their recompense in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant or league with them." 
Isaiah61:9 And their offspring shall be known among the nations and their descendants among the peoples. All who see them [in their prosperity] will recognize and acknowledge that they are the people whom the Lord has blessed. 
Isaiah61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul will exult in my God; for He has clothed me with the garments of salvation, He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels." 
Isaiah61:11 For as [surely as] the earth brings forth its shoots, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to spring forth, so [surely] the Lord God will cause rightness and justice and praise to spring forth before all the nations [through the self-fulfilling power of His word]." 
Isaiah62:1 FOR ZION'S sake will I [Isaiah] not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest until her imputed righteousness and vindication go forth as brightness, and her salvation radiates as does a burning torch." 
Isaiah62:2 And the nations shall see your righteousness and vindication [your rightness and justice,not your own, but His ascribed to you], and all kings shall behold your salvation and glory; and you shall be called by a new name which the mouth of the Lord shall name. [Rev. 2:17.]" 
Isaiah62:3 You shall also be [so beautiful and prosperous as to be thought of as] a crown of glory and honor in the hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem [exceedingly beautiful] in the hand of your God." 
Isaiah62:4 You [Judah] shall no more be termed Forsaken, nor shall your land be called Desolate any more. But you shall be called Hephzibah [My delight is in her], and your land be called Beulah [married]; for the Lord delights in you, and your land shall be married [owned and protected by the Lord]." 
Isaiah62:5 For as a young man marries a virgin [O Jerusalem], so shall your sons marry you; and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you." 
Isaiah62:6 I have set watchmen upon your walls, O Jerusalem, who will never hold their peace day or night; you who [are His servants and by your prayers] put the Lord in remembrance [of His promises], keep not silence," 
Isaiah62:7 And give Him no rest until He establishes Jerusalem and makes her a praise in the earth. 
Isaiah62:8 The Lord has sworn by His right hand and by His mighty arm: Surely I will not again give your grain as food for your enemies, and [the invading sons of] aliens shall not drink your new wine for which you have toiled;" 
Isaiah62:9 But they who have gathered it shall eat it and praise the Lord, and they who have brought in the vintage shall drink it [at the feasts celebrated] in the courts of My sanctuary (the temple of My holiness)." 
Isaiah62:10 Go through, go through the gates! Prepare the way for the people. Cast up, cast up the highway! Gather out the stones. Lift up a standard or ensign over and for the peoples." 
Isaiah62:11 Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth: Say to the Daughter of Zion, Behold, your salvation comes [in the person of the Lord]; behold, His reward is with Him, and His work and recompense before Him. [Isa. 40:10.]" 
Isaiah62:12 And they shall call them the Holy People, the Redeemed of the Lord; and you shall be called Sought Out, a City Not Forsaken." 
Isaiah63:1 WHO IS this Who comes from Edom, with crimson-stained garments from Bozrah [in Edom]? This One Who is glorious in His apparel, striding triumphantly in the greatness of His might? It is I, [the One] Who speaks in righteousness [proclaiming vindication], mighty to save!" 
Isaiah63:2 Why is Your apparel splashed with red, and Your garments like the one who treads in the winepress?" 
Isaiah63:3 I have trodden the winepress alone, and of the peoples there was no one with Me. I trod them in My anger and trampled them in My wrath; and their lifeblood is sprinkled upon My garments, and I stained all My raiment." 
Isaiah63:4 For the day of vengeance was in My heart, and My year of redemption [the year of My redeemed] has come." 
Isaiah63:5 And I looked, but there was no one to help; I was amazed and appalled that there was no one to uphold [truth and right]. So My own arm brought Me victory, and My wrath upheld Me." 
Isaiah63:6 I trod down the peoples in My anger and made them drink of the cup of My wrath until they were intoxicated, and I spilled their lifeblood upon the earth." 
Isaiah63:7 I will recount the loving-kindnesses of the Lord and the praiseworthy deeds of the Lord, according to all that the Lord has bestowed on us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel, which He has granted them according to His mercy and according to the multitude of His loving-kindnesses." 
Isaiah63:8 For He said, Surely they are My people, sons who will not lie [who will not deal falsely with Me]; and so He was to them a Savior [in all their distresses]." 
Isaiah63:9 In all their affliction He was afflicted, and the Angel of His presence saved them; in His love and in His pity He redeemed them; and He lifted them up and carried them all the days of old. [Exod. 23:20-23; 33:14-15; Deut. 1:31; 32:10-12.]" 
Isaiah63:10 But they rebelled and grieved His Holy Spirit; therefore He turned to become their enemy and Himself fought against them. 
Isaiah63:11 Then His people [seriously] remembered the days of old, of Moses and his people [and they said], Where is He Who brought [our fathers] up out of the [Red] Sea, with [Moses and the other] shepherds of His flock? Where is He Who put His Holy Spirit within their midst," 
Isaiah63:12 Who caused His glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, dividing the waters before them, to make for Himself an everlasting name," 
Isaiah63:13 Who led them through the depths, like a horse in the wilderness, so that they did not stumble?" 
Isaiah63:14 Like the cattle that go down into the valley [to find better pasturage, refuge, and rest], the Spirit of the Lord caused them to rest. So did You lead Your people [Lord] to make for Yourself a beautiful and glorious name [to prepare the way for the acknowledgment of Your name by all nations]." 
Isaiah63:15 Look down from heaven and see from the dwelling place of Your holiness and Your glory. Where are Your zeal and Your jealousy and Your mighty acts [which you formerly did for Your people]? Your yearning pity and the [multitude of] compassions of Your heart are restrained and withheld from me. 
Isaiah63:16 For [surely] You are our Father, even though Abraham [our ancestor] does not know us and Israel (Jacob) does not acknowledge us; You, O Lord, are [still] our Father, our Redeemer from everlasting is Your name." 
Isaiah63:17 O Lord, why have You made us [able] to err from Your ways and hardened our hearts to [reverential] fear of You? Return [to bless us] for Your servants' sake, the tribes of Your heritage." 
Isaiah63:18 Your holy people possessed Your sanctuary but a little while; our adversaries have trodden it down. 
Isaiah63:19 We have become [to You] like those over whom You never exercised rule, like those who were not called by Your name." 
Isaiah64:1 OH, THAT You would rend the heavens and that You would come down, that the mountains might quake and flow down at Your presence," 
Isaiah64:2 As when fire kindles the brushwood and the fire causes the waters to boil,to make Your name known to Your adversaries, that the nations may tremble at Your presence!" 
Isaiah64:3 When You did terrible things which we did not expect, You came down; the mountains quaked at Your presence." 
Isaiah64:4 For from of old no one has heard nor perceived by the ear, nor has the eye seen a God besides You, Who works and shows Himself active on behalf of him who [earnestly] waits for Him." 
Isaiah64:5 You meet and spare him who joyfully works righteousness (uprightness and justice), [earnestly] remembering You in Your ways. Behold, You were angry, for we sinned; we have long continued in our sins [prolonging Your anger]. And shall we be saved?" 
Isaiah64:6 For we have all become like one who is unclean [ceremonially, like a leper], and all our righteousness (our best deeds of rightness and justice) is like filthy rags or a polluted garment; we all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away [far from God's favor, hurrying us toward destruction]. [Lev. 13:45, 46.]" 
Isaiah64:7 And no one calls on Your name and awakens and bestirs himself to take and keep hold of You; for You have hidden Your face from us and have delivered us into the [consuming] power of our iniquities. [Rom. 1:21-24.] 
Isaiah64:8 Yet, O Lord, You are our Father; we are the clay, and You our Potter, and we all are the work of Your hand." 
Isaiah64:9 Do not be exceedingly angry, O Lord, or [seriously] remember iniquity forever. Behold, consider, we beseech You, we are all Your people." 
Isaiah64:10 Your holy cities have become a wilderness; Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation." 
Isaiah64:11 Our holy and our beautiful house, [the temple] where our fathers praised You, is burned with fire, and all our pleasant and desirable places are in ruins." 
Isaiah64:12 Considering these [calamities], will You restrain Yourself, O Lord [and not come to our aid]? Will You keep silent and not command our deliverance but humble and afflict us exceedingly?" 
Isaiah65:1 I WAS [ready to be] inquired of by those who asked not; I was [ready to be] found by those who sought Me not. I said, Here I am, here I am [says I AM] to a nation [Israel] that has not called on My name. [Exod. 3:14; Isa. 58:9.]" 
Isaiah65:2 I have spread out My hands all the day long to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that is not good, after their own thoughts," 
Isaiah65:3 A people who provoke Me to My face continually, sacrificing [to idols] in gardens and burning incense upon bricks [instead of at God's prescribed altar];" 
Isaiah65:4 Who sit among the graves [trying to talk with the dead] and lodge among the secret places [or caves where familiar spirits were thought to dwell]; who eat swine's flesh, and the broth of abominable and loathsome things is in their vessels;" 
Isaiah65:5 Who say, Keep to yourself; do not come near me, for I am set apart from you [and lest I sanctify you]! These are smoke in My nostrils, a fire that burns all the day." 
Isaiah65:6 Behold, it is written before Me: I will not keep silence but will repay; yes, I will repay into their bosom" 
Isaiah65:7 Both your own iniquities and the iniquities of your fathers, says the Lord. Because they too burned incense upon the mountains and reviled and blasphemed Me upon the hills, therefore will I measure and stretch out their former doings into their own bosom." 
Isaiah65:8 Thus says the Lord: As the juice [of the grape] is found in the cluster, and one says, Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing in it, so will I do for My servants' sake, that I may not destroy them all." 
Isaiah65:9 And I will bring forth an offspring from Jacob, and from Judah an inheritor of My mountains; My chosen and elect will inherit it, and My servants will dwell there." 
Isaiah65:10 And [the plain of] Sharon shall be a pasture and fold for flocks, and the Valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down, for My people who seek Me, inquire of Me, and require Me [by right of their necessity and by right of My invitation]." 
Isaiah65:11 But you who forsake the Lord, who forget and ignore My holy Mount [Zion], who prepare a table for Gad [the Babylonian god of fortune] and who furnish mixed drinks for Meni [the god of destiny]," 
Isaiah65:12 I will destine you [says the Lord] for the sword, and you shall all bow down to the slaughter, because when I called, you did not answer; when I spoke, you did not listen or obey. But you did what was evil in My eyes, and you chose that in which I did not delight." 
Isaiah65:13 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, My servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; behold, My servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty; behold, My servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame." 
Isaiah65:14 Behold, My servants shall sing for joy of heart, but you shall cry out for pain and sorrow of heart and shall wail and howl for anguish, vexation, and breaking of spirit." 
Isaiah65:15 And you will leave your name to My chosen [to those who will use it] for a curse; and the Lord God will slay you, but He will call His servants by another name [as much greater than the former name as the name Israel was greater than the name Jacob]. [Gen. 32:28; Jer. 29:22.]" 
Isaiah65:16 So [it shall be] that he who invokes a blessing on himself in the land shall do so by saying, May the God of truth and fidelity [the Amen] bless me; and he who takes an oath in the land shall swear by the God of truth and faithfulness to His promises [the Amen], because the former troubles are forgotten and because they are hidden from My eyes. [II Cor. 1:20; Rev. 3:14.]" 
Isaiah65:17 For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth. And the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. [Isa. 66:22; II Pet. 3:13; Rev. 21:1.]" 
Isaiah65:18 But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for behold, I create Jerusalem to be a rejoicing and her people a joy." 
Isaiah65:19 And I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in My people; and the sound of weeping will no more be heard in it, nor the cry of distress." 
Isaiah65:20 There shall no more be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who dies prematurely; for the child shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner who dies when only a hundred years old shall be [thought only a child, cut off because he is] accursed." 
Isaiah65:21 They shall build houses and inhabit them, and they shall plant vineyards and eat the fruit of them." 
Isaiah65:22 They shall not build and another inhabit; they shall not plant and another eat [the fruit]. For as the days of a tree, so shall be the days of My people, and My chosen and elect shall long make use of and enjoy the work of their hands." 
Isaiah65:23 They shall not labor in vain or bring forth [children] for sudden terror or calamity; for they shall be the descendants of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with them." 
Isaiah65:24 And it shall be that before they call I will answer; and while they are yet speaking I will hear. [Isa. 30:19; 58:9; Matt. 6:8.] 
Isaiah65:25 The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all My holy Mount [Zion], says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: Heaven is My throne, and the earth is My footstool. What kind of house would you build for Me? And what kind can be My resting-place? [Acts 17:24.]" 
Isaiah66:2 For all these things My hand has made, and so all these things have come into being [by and for Me], says the Lord. But this is the man to whom I will look and have regard: he who is humble and of a broken or wounded spirit, and who trembles at My word and reveres My commands. [John 4:24.]" 
Isaiah66:3 [The acts of the hypocrite's worship are as abominable to God as if they were offered to idols.] He who kills an ox [then] will be as guilty as if he slew and sacrificed a man; he who sacrifices a lamb or a kid, as if he broke a dog's neck and sacrificed him; he who offers a cereal offering, as if he offered swine's blood; he who burns incense [to God], as if he blessed an idol. [Such people] have chosen their own ways, and they delight in their abominations;" 
Isaiah66:4 So I also will choose their delusions and mockings, their calamities and afflictions, and I will bring their fears upon them,because when I called, no one answered; when I spoke, they did not listen or obey. But they did what was evil in My sight and chose that in which I did not delight." 
Isaiah66:5 Hear the word of the Lord, you who tremble at His word: Your brethren who hate you, who cast you out for My name's sake, have said, Let the Lord be glorified, that we may see your joy! But it is they who shall be put to shame." 
Isaiah66:6 [Hark!] An uproar from the city! A voice from the temple! The voice of the Lord, rendering recompense to His enemies!" 
Isaiah66:7 Before [Zion] travailed, she gave birth; before her pain came upon her, she was delivered of a male child." 
Isaiah66:8 Who has heard of such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Or shall a nation be brought forth in a moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor, she brought forth her children." 
Isaiah66:9 Shall I bring to the [moment of] birth and not cause to bring forth? says the Lord. Shall I Who causes to bring forth shut the womb? says your God. 
Isaiah66:10 Rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her, all you who love her; rejoice for joy with her, all you who mourn over her," 
Isaiah66:11 That you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breasts, that you may drink deeply and be delighted with the abundance and brightness of her glory." 
Isaiah66:12 For thus says the Lord: Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream; then you will be nursed, you will be carried on her hip and trotted [lovingly bounced up and down] on her [God's maternal] knees." 
Isaiah66:13 As one whom his mother comforts, so will I comfort you; you shall be comforted in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah66:14 When you see this, your heart shall rejoice; your bones shall flourish like green and tender grass. And the [powerful] hand of the Lord shall be revealed and known to be with His servants, but His indignation [shown] to be against His enemies." 
Isaiah66:15 For behold, the Lord will come in fire, and His chariots will be like the stormy wind, to render His anger with fierceness, and His rebuke with flames of fire." 
Isaiah66:16 For by fire and by His sword will the Lord execute judgment upon all flesh, and the slain of the Lord will be many." 
Isaiah66:17 Those who [attempt to] sanctify themselves and cleanse themselves to enter [and sacrifice to idols] in the gardens, following after one in the midst, eating hog's flesh and the abomination [creeping things] and the [mouse,their works and their thoughts] shall come to an end together, says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:18 For I know their works and their thoughts. And the time is coming when I will gather all nations and tongues, and they will come and see My glory." 
Isaiah66:19 And I will set up a [miraculous] sign among them, and from them I will send survivors to the nations,to Tarshish, Pul (Put), and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the isles and coastlands afar off that have not heard of My fame nor seen My glory. And they will declare and proclaim My glory among the nations." 
Isaiah66:20 And they shall bring all your brethren from all the nations as an offering to the Lord,upon horses and in chariots and in litters and upon mules and upon camels,to My holy mountain Jerusalem, says the Lord, just as the children of Israel bring their cereal offering in a clean vessel to the house of the Lord." 
Isaiah66:21 And I will also take some of them for priests and for Levites, says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:22 For as the new heavens and the new earth which I make shall remain before Me, says the Lord, so shall your offspring and your name remain." 
Isaiah66:23 And it shall be that from one New Moon to another New Moon and from one Sabbath to another Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before Me, says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:24 And they shall go forth and gaze upon the dead bodies of the [rebellious] men who have stepped over against Me; for their worm shall not die, their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all mankind." 
Jeremiah1:1 THE WORDS of Jeremiah son of Hilkiah, of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin [two or three miles north of Jerusalem]," 
Jeremiah1:2 To whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah son of Amon king of Judah in the thirteenth year of his reign. 
Jeremiah1:3 It came also in the days of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah son of Josiah king of Judah, until the carrying away of Jerusalem into captivity in the fifth month. [II Kings 25:8-11.]" 
Jeremiah1:4 Then the word of the Lord came to me [Jeremiah], saying," 
Jeremiah1:5 Before I formed you in the womb I knew [and] approved of you [as My chosen instrument], and before you were born I separated and set you apart, consecrating you; [and] I appointed you as a prophet to the nations. [Exod. 33:12; Isa. 49:1, 5; Rom. 8:29.]" 
Jeremiah1:6 Then said I, Ah, Lord God! Behold, I cannot speak, for I am only a youth. [Exod. 4:10; 6:12, 30; I Kings 3:7.]" 
Jeremiah1:7 But the Lord said to me, Say not, I am only a youth; for you shall go to all to whom I shall send you, and whatever I command you, you shall speak." 
Jeremiah1:8 Be not afraid of them [their faces], for I am with you to deliver you, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah1:9 Then the Lord put forth His hand and touched my mouth. And the Lord said to me, Behold, I have put My words in your mouth." 
Jeremiah1:10 See, I have this day appointed you to the oversight of the nations and of the kingdoms to root out and pull down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant." 
Jeremiah1:11 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Jeremiah, what do you see? And I said, I see a branch or shoot of an almond tree [the emblem of alertness and activity, blossoming in late winter]." 
Jeremiah1:12 Then said the Lord to me, You have seen well, for I am alert and active, watching over My word to perform it." 
Jeremiah1:13 And the word of the Lord came to me the second time, saying, What do you see? And I said, I see a boiling pot, and the face of it is [tipped away] from the north [its mouth about to pour forth on the south, on Judea]." 
Jeremiah1:14 Then the Lord said to me, Out of the north the evil [which the prophets had foretold as the result of national sin] shall disclose itself and break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land." 
Jeremiah1:15 For, behold, I will call all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, says the Lord; and they will come and set every one his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, against all its walls round about, and against all the cities of Judah [as God's judicial act, a consequence of Judah's wickedness]." 
Jeremiah1:16 And I will utter My judgments against them for all the wickedness of those who have forsaken Me, burned incense to other gods, and worshiped the works of their own hands [idols]." 
Jeremiah1:17 But you [Jeremiah], gird up your loins! Arise and tell them all that I command you. Do not be dismayed and break down at the sight of their faces, lest I confound you before them and permit you to be overcome." 
Jeremiah1:18 For I, behold, I have made you this day a fortified city and an iron pillar and bronze walls against the whole land,against the [successive] kings of Judah, against its princes, against its priests, and against the people of the land [giving you divine strength which no hostile power can overcome]. [Isa. 50:7; 54:17; Jer. 6:27; 15:20; Luke 21:15; Acts 6:10.]" 
Jeremiah1:19 And they shall fight against you, but they shall not [finally] prevail against you, for I am with you, says the Lord, to deliver you." 
Jeremiah2:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me [Jeremiah], saying," 
Jeremiah2:2 Go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus says the Lord: I [earnestly] remember the kindness and devotion of your youth, your love after your betrothal [in Egypt] and marriage [at Sinai] when you followed Me in the wilderness, in a land not sown." 
Jeremiah2:3 Israel was holiness [something set apart from ordinary purposes, dedicated] to the Lord, the firstfruits of His harvest [of which no stranger was allowed to partake]; all who ate of it [injuring Israel] offended and became guilty; evil came upon them, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:4 Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel." 
Jeremiah2:5 Thus says the Lord: What unrighteousness did your fathers find in Me, that they went far from Me and [habitually] went after emptiness, falseness, and futility and themselves became fruitless and worthless?" 
Jeremiah2:6 Nor did they say, Where is the Lord, Who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, Who led us through the wilderness, through a land of deserts and pits, through a land of drought and of the shadow of death and deep darkness, through a land that no man passes through and where no man dwells?" 
Jeremiah2:7 And I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and good things. But when you entered, you defiled My land and made My heritage an abomination [detestable and loathsome]." 
Jeremiah2:8 [Even] the priests did not say, Where is the Lord? And those who handle the law [given by God to Moses] knew Me not. The rulers and secular shepherds also transgressed against Me, and the prophets prophesied by [the authority and in the name of] Baal and followed after things that do not profit." 
Jeremiah2:9 Therefore I will still contend with you [by inflicting further judgments on you], says the Lord, and with your children's children will I contend." 
Jeremiah2:10 For cross over to the coasts of Cyprus [to the west] and see, send also to Kedar [to the east] and carefully consider; and see whether there has been such a thing as this:" 
Jeremiah2:11 Has a nation [ever] changed its gods, even though they are not gods? But My people have changed their Glory [God] for that which does not profit." 
Jeremiah2:12 Be astonished and appalled, O heavens, at this; be shocked and shrivel up with horror, says the Lord [at the behavior of the people]." 
Jeremiah2:13 For My people have committed two evils: they have forsaken Me, the Fountain of living waters, and they have hewn for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns which cannot hold water." 
Jeremiah2:14 Is Israel a servant? Is he a homeborn slave? Why has he become a captive and a prey? 
Jeremiah2:15 The young lions have roared over him and made their voices heard. And they have made his land a waste; his cities are burned ruins without inhabitant. 
Jeremiah2:16 Moreover, the children of Memphis and Tahpanhes (Egypt) [have in times past shown their power as a foe; they] have broken and fed on the crown of your head [Israel],so do not rely on them as an ally now." 
Jeremiah2:17 Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the Lord your God when He led you in the way? 
Jeremiah2:18 And now what have you to gain by allying yourself with Egypt and going her way, to drink the [black and roiled] waters of the Nile? Or what have you to gain in going the way of Assyria, to drink the waters of the Euphrates?" 
Jeremiah2:19 Your own wickedness shall chasten and correct you, and your backslidings and desertion of faith shall reprove you. Know therefore and recognize that this is an evil and bitter thing: [first,] you have forsaken the Lord your God; [second,] you are indifferent to Me and the fear of Me is not in you, says the Lord of hosts." 
Jeremiah2:20 For long ago [in Egypt] I broke your yoke and burst your bonds [not that you might be free, but that you might serve Me] and long ago you shattered the yoke and snapped the bonds [of My law which I put upon you]; you said, I will not serve and obey You! For upon every high hill and under every green tree you [eagerly] prostrated yourself [in idolatrous worship], playing the harlot." 
Jeremiah2:21 Yet I had planted you [O house of Israel] a choice vine, wholly of pure seed. How then have you turned into degenerate shoots of wild vine alien to Me?" 
Jeremiah2:22 For though you wash yourself with lye and use much soap, yet your iniquity and guilt are still [upon you; you are] spotted, dirty, and stained before Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:23 How can you say, I am not defiled; I have not gone after the Baals [other gods]? Look at your way in the valley; know what you have done. You are a restive young female camel [in the uncontrollable violence of her brute passion eagerly] running hither and thither," 
Jeremiah2:24 Or [you have the untamed and reckless nature of] a wild donkey used to the desert, in her heat sniffing the wind [for the scent of a male]. In her mating season who can restrain her? No males seeking her need weary themselves; in her month they will find her [seeking them]." 
Jeremiah2:25 [Cease from your mad running after idols, from which you get nothing but bitter injury.] Keep your feet from being unshod and your throat from thirst. But you said, It is hopeless! For I have loved strangers and foreigners, and after them I will go." 
Jeremiah2:26 As the thief is brought to shame when he is caught, so shall the house of Israel be brought to shame,they, their kings, their princes, their priests, and their prophets," 
Jeremiah2:27 [Inasmuch as] they say to a tree, You are my father, and to a stone, You gave me birth. For they have turned their backs to Me and not their faces; but in the time of their trouble, they say, Arise [O Lord] and save us!" 
Jeremiah2:28 But where are your gods that you made for yourself? Let them arise if they can save you in the time of your trouble! For [as many as] the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah. [Surely so many handmade idols should be able to help you!]" 
Jeremiah2:29 Why do you complain and remonstrate against My wrath? You all have rebelled and revolted against Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:30 In vain have I stricken your children (your people); they received no discipline (no correction). Your own sword devoured your prophets like a destroying lion. 
Jeremiah2:31 O generation [that you are]! Behold, consider, and regard the word of the Lord: Have I been a wilderness to Israel [like a land without food]? A land of deep darkness [like a way without light]? Why do My people say, We have broken loose [we are free and will roam at large]; we will come no more to You?" 
Jeremiah2:32 Can a maid forget and neglect [to wear] her ornaments, or a bride her [marriage] girdle [with its significance like that of a wedding ring]? Yet My people have forgotten Me, days without number." 
Jeremiah2:33 How you deck yourself and direct your way to procure [adulterous] love! Because of it even wicked women have learned [indecent] ways from you. 
Jeremiah2:34 Also on your skirts is found the lifeblood of the persons of the innocent poor; you did not find them housebreaking, nor have I found it out by secret search. But it is because of [your lust for idolatry that you have done] all these things,[that is everywhere evident.]" 
Jeremiah2:35 Yet you keep saying, I am innocent; surely His anger has turned away from Me. Behold, I will bring you to judgment and will plead against you because you say, I have not sinned." 
Jeremiah2:36 Why do you gad or wander about so much to change your way? You shall be put to shame by Egypt as you were put to shame by Assyria. 
Jeremiah2:37 From [Egypt] also you will come away with your hands upon your head, for the Lord has rejected those in whom you confide, and you will not prosper with [respect to] them." 
Jeremiah3:1 THAT IS to say, If a man puts away his wife and she goes from him and becomes another man's, will he return to her again? [Of course not!] Would not that land [where such a thing happened] be greatly polluted? But you have played the harlot [against Me] with many lovers,yet would you now return to Me? says the Lord [or do you even think to return to Me?]" 
Jeremiah3:2 Lift up your eyes to the bare heights and see. Where have you not been adulterously lain with? By the wayside you have sat waiting for lovers [eager for idolatry], like an Arabian [desert tribesman who waits to plunder] in the wilderness; and you have polluted the land with your vile harlotry and your wickedness (unfaithfulness and disobedience to God)." 
Jeremiah3:3 Therefore the showers have been withheld, and there has been no spring rain. Yet you have the brow of a prostitute; you refuse to be ashamed." 
Jeremiah3:4 Have you not just now cried to Me: My Father, You were the guide and companion of my youth?" 
Jeremiah3:5 Will He retain His anger forever? Will He keep it to the end? Behold, you have so spoken, but you have done all the evil things you could and have had your way and have carried them through." 
Jeremiah3:6 Moreover, the Lord said to me [Jeremiah] in the days of Josiah the king [of Judah], Have you seen what that faithless and backsliding Israel has done,how she went up on every high hill and under every green tree and there played the harlot?" 
Jeremiah3:7 And I said, After she has done all these things, she will return to Me; but she did not return, and her faithless and treacherous sister Judah saw it." 
Jeremiah3:8 And I saw, even though [Judah knew] that for this very cause of committing adultery (idolatry) I [the Lord] had put faithless Israel away and given her a bill of divorce; yet her faithless and treacherous sister Judah was not afraid, but she also went and played the harlot [following after idols]." 
Jeremiah3:9 And through the infamy and unseemly frivolity of Israel's whoredom [because her immorality mattered little to her], she polluted and defiled the land, [by her idolatry] committing adultery with [idols of] stones and trees." 
Jeremiah3:10 But in spite of all this, her faithless and treacherous sister Judah did not return to Me in sincerity and with her whole heart, but only in sheer hypocrisy [has she feigned obedience to King Josiah's reforms], says the Lord. [II Chron. 34:33; Hos. 7:13, 14.]" 
Jeremiah3:11 And the Lord said to me, Backsliding and faithless Israel has shown herself less guilty than false and treacherous Judah." 
Jeremiah3:12 Go and proclaim these words toward the north [where the ten tribes have been taken as captives] and say, Return, faithless Israel, says the Lord, and I will not cause My countenance to fall and look in anger upon you, for I am merciful, says the Lord; I will not keep My anger forever." 
Jeremiah3:13 Only know, understand, and acknowledge your iniquity and guilt,that you have rebelled and transgressed against the Lord your God and have scattered your favors among strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyed My voice, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah3:14 Return, O faithless children [of the whole twelve tribes], says the Lord, for I am Lord and Master and Husband to you, and I will take you [not as a nation, but individually],one from a city and two from a tribal family,and I will bring you to Zion. [Luke 15:20-22.]" 
Jeremiah3:15 And I will give you [spiritual] shepherds after My own heart [in the final time], who will feed you with knowledge and understanding and judgment." 
Jeremiah3:16 And it shall be that when you have multiplied and increased in the land in those days, says the Lord, they shall no more say, The ark of the covenant of the Lord. It shall not come to mind, nor shall they [seriously] remember it, nor shall they miss or visit it, nor shall it be repaired or made again [for instead of the ark, which represented God's presence, He will show Himself to be present throughout the city]. [Isa. 65:17; Rev. 21:3, 22, 23.]" 
Jeremiah3:17 At that time they shall call Jerusalem The Throne of the Lord, and all the nations shall be gathered to it, in the renown and name of the Lord, to Jerusalem; nor shall they walk any more after the stubbornness of their own evil hearts." 
Jeremiah3:18 In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and together they shall come out of the land of the north to the land that I gave as an inheritance to your fathers." 
Jeremiah3:19 And I thought how [gloriously and honorably] I would set you among My children and give you a pleasant land, a goodly heritage, the most beautiful and best [inheritance] among all nations! And I thought you would call Me My Father and would not turn away from following Me." 
Jeremiah3:20 Surely, as a wife treacherously and faithlessly departs from her husband, so have you dealt treacherously and faithlessly with Me, O house of Israel, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah3:21 A voice is heard on the bare heights, the weeping and pleading of the sons of Israel, because they have perverted their ways, they have [eagerly] forgotten the Lord their God." 
Jeremiah3:22 Return, O faithless sons, [says the Lord, and] I will heal your faithlessness. [And they answer] Behold, we come to You, for You are the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah3:23 Truly in vain is the hope of salvation from the hills and from the tumult and noisy throng on the mountains; truly in and with the Lord our God rests the salvation of Israel. 
Jeremiah3:24 [We have been ruined as a nation by our faithlessness and idolatry] for the shameful thing has consumed all for which our fathers toiled from our youth,their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters." 
Jeremiah3:25 Let us lie prostrate in our shame, and let our dishonor and confusion cover us; for we have sinned against the Lord our God, we and our fathers; from our youth even to this day we have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah4:1 IF YOU will return, O Israel, says the Lord, if you will return to Me, and if you will put away your abominable false gods out of My sight and not stray or waver," 
Jeremiah4:2 And if you swear, As the Lord lives, in truth, in judgment and justice, and in righteousness (uprightness in every area and relation), then the nations will bless themselves in Him and in Him will they glory." 
Jeremiah4:3 For thus says the Lord to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem: Break up your ground left uncultivated for a season, so that you may not sow among thorns." 
Jeremiah4:4 Circumcise yourselves to the Lord and take away the foreskins of your hearts, you men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, lest My wrath go forth like fire [consuming all that gets in its way] and burn so that no one can quench it because of the evil of your doings." 
Jeremiah4:5 Declare in Judah and publish in Jerusalem and say: Blow the trumpet in the land; cry aloud and say: Assemble yourselves, and let us go into the fortified cities." 
Jeremiah4:6 Raise a standard toward Zion [to mark out the safest route to those seeking safety within Jerusalem's walls]! Flee for safety, stay not, for I bring evil from the north, and great destruction." 
Jeremiah4:7 A lion has gone up from his thicket, and a destroyer of nations is on his way. He has gone forth from his place to make your land a desolate waste; and your cities shall be left in ruins without an inhabitant." 
Jeremiah4:8 For this, gird yourselves with sackcloth, lament and wail, for the fierce anger of the Lord has not turned back from us." 
Jeremiah4:9 And it shall be in that day, says the Lord, that the understanding and courage of the king shall fail (be paralyzed), and also that of the princes; the priests shall be appalled and the prophets astounded and dazed with horror." 
Jeremiah4:10 Then I [Jeremiah] said, Alas, Lord God! Surely You have greatly deceived and misled this people and Jerusalem, [for the prophets represented You as] saying [to Your people], You shall have peace, whereas the sword has reached to [their very] life." 
Jeremiah4:11 At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness [comes at My command] against the daughter of My people,not [a wind] to fan or cleanse [from chaff, as when threshing, but]" 
Jeremiah4:12 A wind too strong and full for winnowing comes at My word. Now I will also speak in judgment against [My people]. 
Jeremiah4:13 Behold, [the enemy] comes up like clouds, his chariots like the whirlwind; his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us, for we are ruined (destroyed)!" 
Jeremiah4:14 O Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that you may be saved! How long shall your iniquitous and grossly offensive thoughts lodge within you?" 
Jeremiah4:15 For a voice declares from Dan [in the north] and proclaims evil from Mount Ephraim [the range dividing Israel from Judah]. 
Jeremiah4:16 Warn the [neighboring] nations [that our adversary is coming]; announce to Jerusalem that besiegers are coming from a far country, and they shout against the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah4:17 Like keepers of a field they are against her round about, because she has been rebellious against Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah4:18 Your ways and your doings have brought these things upon you. This is your calamity and doom; surely it is bitter, for surely it reaches your very heart!" 
Jeremiah4:19 [It is not only the prophet but also the people who cry out in their thoughts] My anguish, my anguish! I writhe in pain! Oh, the walls of my heart! My heart is disquieted and throbs aloud within me; I cannot be silent! For I have heard the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war." 
Jeremiah4:20 News of one violent disaster and calamity comes close after another, for the whole land is laid waste; suddenly are my tents spoiled and destroyed, and my [tent] curtains ruined in a moment." 
Jeremiah4:21 [O Lord] how long must I see the flag [marking the route for flight] and hear the sound of the trumpet [urging the people to flee for refuge]? 
Jeremiah4:22 [Their chastisement will continue until it has accomplished its purpose] for My people are stupid, says the Lord [replying to Jeremiah]; they do not know and understand Me. They are thickheaded children, and they have no understanding. They are wise to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge [and know not how]." 
Jeremiah4:23 [In a vision Jeremiah sees Judah laid waste by conquest and captivity.] I looked at the land, and behold, it was [as at the time of creation] waste and vacant (void); and at the heavens, and they had no light." 
Jeremiah4:24 I looked at the mountains, and behold, they trembled, and all the hills moved lightly to and fro." 
Jeremiah4:25 I looked, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the air had fled." 
Jeremiah4:26 I looked, and behold, the fruitful land was a desert, and all its cities were laid waste before the Lord's presence, before His fierce anger." 
Jeremiah4:27 For thus says the Lord: The whole land will be a desolation, yet I will not make a full and complete end of it. [Jer. 5:10, 18; 30:11; 46:28.]" 
Jeremiah4:28 For this will the earth mourn and the heavens above be black; because I have spoken, I have purposed, and I will not relent, nor will I turn back [from it]." 
Jeremiah4:29 Every city flees because of the noise of the horsemen and bowmen. They go into the thickets and climb among the rocks; every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells in them." 
Jeremiah4:30 And you [plundered one], when you are made desolate, what will you do? Though you clothe yourself with scarlet, though you deck yourself with ornaments of gold, though you paint your eyelids and make them look farther apart, in vain you beautify yourself. Your lovers (allies) despise you; they seek your life." 
Jeremiah4:31 For I have heard a cry as of a woman in travail, the anguish as of one who brings forth her first child,the cry of the Daughter of Zion, who gasps for breath, who spreads her hands, saying, Woe is me now! I am fainting before the murderers." 
Jeremiah5:1 RUN TO and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now and take notice! Seek in her broad squares to see if you can find a man [as Abraham sought in Sodom], one who does justice, who seeks truth, sincerity, and faithfulness; and I will pardon [Jerusalem,for one uncompromisingly righteous person]. [Gen. 18:22-32.]" 
Jeremiah5:2 And though they say, As the Lord lives, surely they swear falsely." 
Jeremiah5:3 O Lord, do not your eyes look on the truth? [They have meant to please You outwardly, but You look on their hearts.] You have stricken them, but they have not grieved; You have consumed them, but they have refused to take correction or instruction. They have made their faces harder than a rock, they have refused to repent and return to You." 
Jeremiah5:4 Then I said, Surely these are only the poor; they are [sinfully] foolish and have no understanding, for they know not the way of the Lord, the judgment (the just and righteous law) of their God." 
Jeremiah5:5 I will go to the great men and will speak to them, for they must know the way of the Lord, the judgment (the just and righteous law) of their God. But [I found the very reverse to be true] these had all alike broken the yoke [of God's law] and had burst the bonds [of obedience to Him]." 
Jeremiah5:6 Therefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, a wolf of the desert shall destroy them, a leopard or panther shall lie in wait against their cities. Everyone who goes out of them shall be torn in pieces, because their transgressions are many, their backslidings and total desertion of faith are increased and have become great and mighty." 
Jeremiah5:7 Why should I and how can I pass over this and forgive you for it? Your children have forsaken Me and sworn by those that are no gods. When I had fed them to the full and bound them to Me by oath, they committed [spiritual] adultery, assembling themselves in troops at the houses of [idol] harlots." 
Jeremiah5:8 They were like fed stallions roaming at large; each one neighed after his neighbor's wife. 
Jeremiah5:9 Shall I not punish them for these things? says the Lord; and shall I not avenge Myself on such a nation as this? 
Jeremiah5:10 Go up within [Jerusalem's] walls and destroy [her vines], but do not make a full and complete end. Trim away the tendrils [of her vines], for they are not the Lord's." 
Jeremiah5:11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very faithlessly and treacherously against Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah5:12 They have lied about and denied the Lord by saying, It is not He [Who speaks through His prophets]! Evil shall not come upon us; nor shall we see war or famine." 
Jeremiah5:13 And [say they] the prophets will become wind [what they prophesy will not come to pass], and the word [of God] is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them [as they threatened would be done to us]." 
Jeremiah5:14 Therefore thus says the Lord God of hosts: Because you [the people] have spoken this word, behold, I will make My words fire in your mouth [Jeremiah] and this people wood, and it will devour them." 
Jeremiah5:15 Behold, I am bringing a nation upon you from afar, O house of Israel, says the Lord. It is a mighty and enduring nation, it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know, nor can you understand what they say." 
Jeremiah5:16 Their quiver is [filled with deadly missiles] like an open sepulcher [filled with dead bodies; the foes] are all mighty men (heroes). 
Jeremiah5:17 They shall consume your harvest and your food; they shall consume your sons and your daughters; they shall consume your flocks and your herds; they shall consume your vines and your fig trees. They shall break down and impoverish your fortified cities in which you trust, with the sword [they shall destroy them]." 
Jeremiah5:18 But even in those days, says the Lord, I will not make a full and complete end of you." 
Jeremiah5:19 And when your people say, Why has the Lord our God done all these things to us? then you shall answer them, As you have forsaken Me, says the Lord, and have served strange gods in your land, so shall you serve strangers (gods) in a land that is not yours." 
Jeremiah5:20 Declare this in the house of Jacob and publish it in Judah: 
Jeremiah5:21 Hear now this, O foolish people without understanding or heart, who have eyes and see not, who have ears and hear not: [Isa. 6:9, 10; Matt. 13:10-15; Mark 8:17, 18.]" 
Jeremiah5:22 Do you not fear and reverence Me? says the Lord. Do you not tremble before Me? I placed the sand for the boundary of the sea, a perpetual barrier beyond which it cannot pass and by an everlasting ordinance beyond which it cannot go? And though the waves of the sea toss and shake themselves, yet they cannot prevail [against the feeble grains of sand which God has ordained by nature to be sufficient for His purpose]; though [the billows] roar, yet they cannot pass over that [barrier]. [Is not such a God to be reverently feared and worshiped?]" 
Jeremiah5:23 But these people have hearts that draw back from God and wills that rebel against Him; they have revolted and quit His service and have gone away [into idolatry]. 
Jeremiah5:24 Nor do they say in their hearts, Let us now reverently fear and worship the Lord our God, Who gives rain, both the autumn and the spring rain in its season, Who reserves and keeps for us the appointed weeks of the harvest." 
Jeremiah5:25 Your iniquities have turned these blessings away, and your sins have kept good [harvests] from you." 
Jeremiah5:26 For among My people are found wicked men; they watch like fowlers who lie in wait; they set a trap, they catch men." 
Jeremiah5:27 As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit and treachery; therefore they have become great and grown rich," 
Jeremiah5:28 They have grown fat and sleek. Yes, they surpass in deeds of wickedness; they do not judge and plead with justice the cause of the fatherless, that they may prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy." 
Jeremiah5:29 Shall I not punish them for these things? says the Lord. Shall I not avenge Myself on such a nation as this? 
Jeremiah5:30 An appalling and horrible thing [bringing desolation and destruction] has come to pass in the land: 
Jeremiah5:31 The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests exercise rule at their own hands and by means of the prophets. And My people love to have it so! But what will you do when the end comes?" 
Jeremiah6:1 FLEE FOR safety, you children of Benjamin, out of the midst of Jerusalem! And blow the trumpet in Tekoa [a town far south in Judah], and raise a [fire] signal over Beth-haccherem [a town near Jerusalem]! For evil is looking forth with eagerness from the north, and great destruction." 
Jeremiah6:2 The comely and delicate one, [Jerusalem] the Daughter of Zion, I will destroy. [To a pasturage, yes, a luxurious pasturage, have I likened her.]" 
Jeremiah6:3 Shepherds with their flocks shall come against her; they shall pitch their tents round about her; they shall pasture, each one in his place [eating up all her luxurious herbage on every side]." 
Jeremiah6:4 Prepare yourselves for war against her [they cry]; up, let us attack her at noon! But alas, the day declines, the evening shadows lengthen." 
Jeremiah6:5 Arise, let us go by night and destroy her palaces!" 
Jeremiah6:6 For the Lord of hosts has said, Hew down her trees and cast up a siege mound against Jerusalem. This is the city which must be punished; there is nothing but oppression within her." 
Jeremiah6:7 As a fountain wells up and casts forth its waters and keeps them fresh, so she is [continually] casting forth [fresh] wickedness. Violence and destruction are heard within her; sickness and wounds are continually before Me." 
Jeremiah6:8 Be corrected, reformed, instructed, and warned, O Jerusalem, lest I be alienated and parted from you, lest I make you a desolation, an uninhabited land." 
Jeremiah6:9 Thus says the Lord of hosts: They shall thoroughly glean as a vine what is left of Israel; turn back your hand again and again [O minister of destruction] into the baskets, like a grape gatherer, and strip the tendrils [of the vine]." 
Jeremiah6:10 To whom shall I [Jeremiah] speak and give warning, that they may hear? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised [never brought into covenant with God or consecrated to His service], and they cannot hear or obey. Behold, the word of the Lord has become to them a reproach and the object of their scorn; they have no delight in it." 
Jeremiah6:11 Therefore I am full of the wrath of the Lord; I am weary of restraining it. I will pour it out on the children in the street and on the gathering of young men together; for even the husband with the wife will be taken, the aged with the very old." 
Jeremiah6:12 And their houses will be turned over to others, their fields and their wives together; for I will stretch out My hand against the inhabitants of the land, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah6:13 For from the least of them even to the greatest of them, everyone is given to covetousness (to greed for unjust gain); and from the prophet even to the priest, everyone deals falsely." 
Jeremiah6:14 They have healed also the wound of the daughter of My people lightly and neglectfully, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace." 
Jeremiah6:15 Were they brought to shame because they had committed abominations (extremely disgusting and vile things)? No, they were not at all ashamed, nor could they blush [at their idolatry]. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I punish them they shall be overthrown, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah6:16 Thus says the Lord: Stand by the roads and look; and ask for the eternal paths, where the good, old way is; then walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk in it! [Matt. 11:29.]" 
Jeremiah6:17 Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hear and obey the sound of the trumpet! But they said, We will not listen or obey." 
Jeremiah6:18 Therefore hear, O [Gentile] nations, and know, O congregation [of believing ones], what [great things I will do] to them." 
Jeremiah6:19 Hear, O earth: behold, I am bringing evil upon this people, the fruit of their thoughts (their schemes and devices) because they have not listened and obeyed My words, and as for My law, they have rejected it." 
Jeremiah6:20 To what purpose does frankincense come to Me from Sheba [in southwestern Arabia] and the sweet cane from a far country? Your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor are your sacrifices sweet or pleasing to Me." 
Jeremiah6:21 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, I will lay stumbling blocks before this people. And the fathers and the sons together will stumble against them; the neighbor and his friend will perish." 
Jeremiah6:22 Thus says the Lord: Behold, a people is coming from the north country, and a great nation is arousing itself from the ends of the earth." 
Jeremiah6:23 They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel (ruthless and inhuman) and have no mercy. Their voice sounds like the roaring sea; they ride on horses, every one set in array as a man for battle against you, O Daughter of Zion!" 
Jeremiah6:24 We have heard the report of it; our hands become feeble and helpless. Anguish has taken hold of us, pangs like that of a woman in childbirth." 
Jeremiah6:25 Go not out into the field nor walk on the road, for the enemy is armed with the sword; terror is on every side." 
Jeremiah6:26 O daughter of my people [says Jeremiah], gird yourself with sackcloth and wallow in ashes; make mourning as for an only son, a most bitter lamentation, for the destroyer will suddenly come upon us [on prophet and people]." 
Jeremiah6:27 I [says the Lord] have set you [Jeremiah] as an assayer and a prover of ore among My people, that you may know and try their doings and be like a watchtower." 
Jeremiah6:28 They are all the worst [kind] of rebels and utter and total revolters against God, going about publishing slander. They are [not gold and silver ore, but] bronze and iron; they are all corrupters." 
Jeremiah6:29 The bellows blow fiercely, the lead is consumed by the fire; in vain do they continue refining, for the wicked [the dross] are not removed." 
Jeremiah6:30 Men will call them reprobate and rejected silver [only dross, without good metal], because the Lord has rejected them." 
Jeremiah7:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying," 
Jeremiah7:2 Stand in the gate of the Lord's house and proclaim there this word and say, Hear the word of the Lord, all you of Judah who enter in at these gates to worship the Lord." 
Jeremiah7:3 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Amend your ways and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place." 
Jeremiah7:4 Trust not in the lying words [of the false prophets who maintain that God will protect Jerusalem because His temple is there], saying, This is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord." 
Jeremiah7:5 For if you thoroughly amend your ways and your doings, if you thoroughly and truly execute justice between every man and his neighbor," 
Jeremiah7:6 If you do not oppress the transient and the alien, the fatherless, and the widow or shed innocent blood [by oppression and by judicial murders] in [Jerusalem] or go after other gods to your own hurt," 
Jeremiah7:7 Then I will cause you to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers to dwell in forever." 
Jeremiah7:8 Behold, you trust in lying words that cannot benefit [so that you do not profit]." 
Jeremiah7:9 Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, burn incense to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known," 
Jeremiah7:10 And [then dare to] come and stand before Me in this house, which is called by My Name, and say, [By the discharge of this religious formality] we are set free!,only to go on with this wickedness and these abominations?" 
Jeremiah7:11 Has this house, which is called by My Name, become a den of robbers in your eyes [a place of retreat for you between acts of violence]? Behold, I Myself have seen it, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah7:12 But go now to My place which was in Shiloh [in Ephraim], where I set My Name at the first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of My people Israel. [I Sam. 4:10-18.]" 
Jeremiah7:13 And now, because you have done all these things, says the Lord, and [because] when I spoke to you persistently [even rising up early and speaking], you did not listen, and when I called you, you did not answer," 
Jeremiah7:14 Therefore will I do to this house (the temple), which is called by My Name and in which you trust, to the place which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh." 
Jeremiah7:15 And I will cast you out of My sight, as I have cast out all your brethren, even the whole posterity of Ephraim." 
Jeremiah7:16 Therefore do not pray for this people [of Judah] or lift up a cry or entreaty for them or make intercession to Me, for I will not listen to or hear you." 
Jeremiah7:17 Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
Jeremiah7:18 The children gather wood, the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead the dough, to make cakes for the queen of heaven; and they pour out drink offerings to other gods, that they may provoke Me to anger!" 
Jeremiah7:19 Am I the One Whom they provoke to anger? says the Lord. Is it not themselves [whom they provoke], to their own confusion and vexation and to their own shame?" 
Jeremiah7:20 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, My anger and My wrath will be poured out on this place, on man and beast, on the trees of the field and the fruit of the ground; it will burn and not be quenched." 
Jeremiah7:21 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices and eat the flesh [if you will. It will avail you nothing]." 
Jeremiah7:22 For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices." 
Jeremiah7:23 But this thing I did command them: Listen to and obey My voice, and I will be your God and you will be My people; and walk in the whole way that I command you, that it may be well with you." 
Jeremiah7:24 But they would not listen to and obey Me or bend their ear [to Me], but followed the counsels and the stubborn promptings of their own evil hearts and minds, and they turned their backs and went in reverse instead of forward." 
Jeremiah7:25 Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have persistently sent to you all My servants the prophets, sending them daily, early and late." 
Jeremiah7:26 Yet the people would not listen to and obey Me or bend their ears [to Me], but stiffened their necks and behaved worse than their fathers." 
Jeremiah7:27 Speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to and obey you; also call to them, but they will not answer you." 
Jeremiah7:28 Yet you shall say to them, This is the nation that did not obey the voice of the Lord their God or receive instruction and correction and warning; truth and faithfulness have perished and have completely vanished from their mouths." 
Jeremiah7:29 Cut off your hair [your crown, O Jerusalem] and cast it away, and take up a lamentation on the bare heights, for the Lord has rejected and forsaken the generation of His wrath." 
Jeremiah7:30 For the children of Judah have done evil in My sight, says the Lord; they have set their abominations (extremely disgusting and shamefully vile things) in the house which is called by My Name to defile it." 
Jeremiah7:31 And they have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire [in honor of Molech, the fire god],which I did not command, nor did it come into My mind or heart. [Lev. 18:21; Josh. 15:8; II Kings 16:2-3; 21:1, 6; Isa. 30:33.]" 
Jeremiah7:32 Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when it shall no more be called Topheth or the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], but the Valley of Slaughter, for [in bloody warfare] they will bury in Topheth till there is no more room and no place else to bury. [Jer. 19:6.]" 
Jeremiah7:33 And the dead bodies of this people will be meat for the fowls of the air and for the beasts of the earth, and none will frighten them away." 
Jeremiah7:34 Then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah and from the streets of Jerusalem the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land will become a waste." 
Jeremiah8:1 AT THAT time, says the Lord, [the Babylonian army will break open the sepulchers, and] they shall bring out the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of its princes, the bones of the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem from their graves." 
Jeremiah8:2 And they will [carelessly] scatter [the corpses] before the sun and the moon and all the host of heaven, which [the dead] have loved and which they have served and after which they have walked and which they have sought, inquired of, and required and which they have worshiped. They shall not be gathered, or be buried; they shall be like dung upon the face of the earth." 
Jeremiah8:3 And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue of those who remain of this evil family (nation), who remain in all the places to which I have driven them, says the Lord of hosts." 
Jeremiah8:4 Moreover, you [Jeremiah] shall say to them, Thus says the Lord: Shall men fall and not rise up again? Shall one turn away [from God] and not repent and return [to Him]?" 
Jeremiah8:5 Why then is this people of Jerusalem turned away with a perpetual turning away [from Me]? They hold fast to deceit (idolatry); they refuse to repent and return [to God]. 
Jeremiah8:6 I have listened and heard, but they have not spoken aright; no man repents of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? Everyone turns to his [individual] course, as the horse rushes like a torrent into battle." 
Jeremiah8:7 [Even the migratory birds are punctual to their seasons.] Yes, the stork [excelling in the great height of her flight] in the heavens knows her appointed times [of migration], and the turtledove, the swallow, and the crane observe the time of their return. But My people do not know the law of the Lord [which the lower animals instinctively recognize in so far as it applies to them]." 
Jeremiah8:8 How can you say, We are wise, and we have the written law of the Lord [and are learned in its language and teachings]? Behold, the truth is, the lying pen of the scribes has made of the law a falsehood (a mere code of ceremonial observances). [Mark 7:13.]" 
Jeremiah8:9 The wise men shall be put to shame; they shall be dismayed and taken [captive]. Behold, they have rejected the word of the Lord, and what wisdom and broad, full intelligence is in them?" 
Jeremiah8:10 Therefore will I give their wives to others and their fields to those who gain possession of them; for everyone, from the least even to the greatest, is given to covetousness (is greedy for unjust gain); from the prophet even to the priest, everyone deals falsely." 
Jeremiah8:11 For they have healed the wound of the daughter of My people only lightly and slightingly, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace." 
Jeremiah8:12 They are brought to shame because they have committed abominations (extremely disgusting and shamefully vile things). And yet they were not at all ashamed, nor could they blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time of their punishment they shall be overthrown, says the Lord. [Jer. 6:12-15.]" 
Jeremiah8:13 I will gather and sweep them away, utterly consuming them, says the Lord. [I will find] no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, and even the leaf is withered; and the things that I have given them shall pass away from them [for I have appointed to them those who shall pass over them]. [Matt. 21:18, 19.]" 
Jeremiah8:14 [Then say the people to each other] Why do we sit still? Assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the fortified cities and be silent or perish there! For the Lord our God has decreed our ruin and given us bitter and poisonous water to drink, because we have sinned against the Lord." 
Jeremiah8:15 We looked for peace and completeness, but no good came, and for a time of healing, but behold, dismay, trouble, and terror!" 
Jeremiah8:16 The snorting of [Nebuchadnezzar's] horses is heard from Dan [on the northern border of Palestine]. At the sound of the neighing of his strong war-horses the whole land quakes; for they come and devour the land and all that is in it, the city and those who dwell in it." 
Jeremiah8:17 For behold, I am sending among you serpents, adders which cannot be charmed, and they shall bite you, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah8:18 Oh, that I [Jeremiah] could comfort myself against sorrow, [for my grief is beyond healing], my heart is sick and faint within me!" 
Jeremiah8:19 Behold [says the prophet, listen to the voice of] the cry of the daughter of my people [for help] because of those who dwell in a far country: Is not the Lord in Zion? Is not her King in her? [But the Lord answers] Why have they provoked Me to anger with their carved images and with foreign idols?" 
Jeremiah8:20 The harvest is past, the summer has ended and the gathering of fruit is over, yet we are not saved! [comes again the voice of the people.]" 
Jeremiah8:21 For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I [Jeremiah] hurt; I go around mourning; dismay has taken hold on me. 
Jeremiah8:22 Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people restored? [Because Zion no longer enjoyed the presence of the Great Physician!] [Exod. 15:26.] 
Jeremiah9:1 OH, THAT my head were waters and my eyes a reservoir of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!" 
Jeremiah9:2 Oh, that I had in the wilderness a lodging place (a mere shelter) for wayfaring men, that I might leave my people and go away from them! For they are all adulterers [rendering worship to idols instead of to the Lord, Who has espoused the people to Himself]; they are a gang of treacherous men [faithless even to each other]." 
Jeremiah9:3 And they bend their tongue, [which is] their bow for the lies [they shoot]. And not according to faithfulness do they rule and become strong in the land; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know and understand and acknowledge Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah9:4 Let everyone beware of his neighbor and put no trust in any brother. For every brother is an utter and complete supplanter (one who takes by the heel and trips up, a deceiver, a Jacob), and every neighbor goes about as a slanderer. [Gen. 25:26.]" 
Jeremiah9:5 And they deceive and mock every one his neighbor and do not speak the truth. They have taught their tongues to speak lies; they weary themselves committing iniquity. 
Jeremiah9:6 Your habitation is in the midst of deceit [oppression upon oppression and deceit upon deceit]; through deceit they refuse to know and understand Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah9:7 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will melt them [by the process of affliction to remove the dross] and test them, for how else should I deal with the daughter of My people?" 
Jeremiah9:8 Their tongue is a murderous arrow; it speaks deceitfully; one speaks peaceably to his neighbor with his mouth, but in his heart he lays snares and waits in ambush for him." 
Jeremiah9:9 Shall I not punish them for these things? says the Lord. Shall I not avenge Myself on such a nation as this? 
Jeremiah9:10 For the mountains I will take up a weeping and wailing and for the pastures of the wilderness a lament, because they are burned up and desolated, so that no one passes through [them]; neither can men hear [any longer] the lowing of cattle. Both the fowls of the air and the beasts have fled, they are gone!" 
Jeremiah9:11 I will make Jerusalem heaps [of ruins], a dwelling place of jackals; and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah9:12 Who is the wise man who may understand this? To whom has the mouth of the Lord spoken, that he may declare it? Why is the land ruined and laid waste like a wilderness, so that no one passes through it?" 
Jeremiah9:13 And the Lord says, Because they have forsaken My law, which I set before them, and have not listened to and obeyed My voice or walked in accordance with it" 
Jeremiah9:14 But have walked stubbornly after their own hearts and after the Baals, as their fathers taught them," 
Jeremiah9:15 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood and give them bitter and poisonous water to drink." 
Jeremiah9:16 I will scatter them also among nations that neither they nor their fathers have known, and I will send the sword among them and after them until I have consumed them." 
Jeremiah9:17 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Consider and call for the mourning women to come; send for the skillful women to come. 
Jeremiah9:18 Let them make haste and raise a wailing over us and for us, that our eyes may run down with tears and our eyelids gush with water." 
Jeremiah9:19 For a sound of wailing is heard [coming] out of Zion: How we are plundered and ruined! We are greatly confounded and utterly put to shame, because we have forsaken the land, because they have cast down our dwellings [our dwellings that have cast us out]." 
Jeremiah9:20 Yet hear the word of the Lord, O you women, and let your ears receive the word of His mouth; teach your daughters a lament, and each one [teach] her neighbor a dirge." 
Jeremiah9:21 For death has come up into our windows; it has entered into our palaces, cutting off the children from outdoors and the young men from the streets." 
Jeremiah9:22 Speak, Thus says the Lord: The dead bodies of men shall fall like dung on the open field and like sheaves [of grain] behind the reaper, and none shall gather them. [Jer. 8:2.]" 
Jeremiah9:23 Thus says the Lord: Let not the wise and skillful person glory and boast in his wisdom and skill; let not the mighty and powerful person glory and boast in his strength and power; let not the person who is rich [in physical gratification and earthly wealth] glory and boast in his [temporal satisfactions and earthly] riches; 
Jeremiah9:24 But let him who glories glory in this: that he understands and knows Me [personally and practically, directly discerning and recognizing My character], that I am the Lord, Who practices loving-kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight, says the Lord. [I Cor. 1:31; II Cor. 10:17.]" 
Jeremiah9:25 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will punish all who though circumcised [outwardly, in the flesh] are still uncircumcised [in corresponding inward purity],[Rom. 2:25-29.]" 
Jeremiah9:26 Egypt, Judah, Edom, the children of Ammon, Moab [all of whom are related except Egypt], and all who live in the desert and who clip off the corners of their hair and beards; for all these nations are uncircumcised [in heart], and all the house of Israel is uncircumcised in heart." 
Jeremiah10:1 HEAR THE word which the Lord speaks to you, O house of Israel." 
Jeremiah10:2 Thus says the Lord: Learn not the way of the [heathen] nations and be not dismayed at the signs of the heavens, though they are dismayed at them," 
Jeremiah10:3 For the customs and ordinances of the peoples are false, empty, and futile; it is but a tree which one cuts out of the forest [to make for himself a god], the work of the hands of the craftsman with the ax or other tool." 
Jeremiah10:4 They deck [the idol] with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails and with hammers so it will not fall apart or move around. 
Jeremiah10:5 [Their idols] are like pillars of turned work [as upright and stationary and immobile as a palm tree], like scarecrows in a cucumber field; they cannot speak; they have to be carried, for they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them, for they cannot do evil, neither is it possible for them to do good [and it is not in them]." 
Jeremiah10:6 None at all is like You, O Lord; You are great, and Your name is great in might." 
Jeremiah10:7 Who would not fear You, O King of the nations? For it is fitting to You and Your due! For among all the wise [men or gods] of the nations and in all their kingdoms, there is none like You." 
Jeremiah10:8 But they are altogether irrational and stupid and foolish. Their instruction is given by idols who are but wood [it is a teaching of falsity, emptiness, futility]!" 
Jeremiah10:9 Silver beaten [into plates] is brought from Tarshish and gold from Uphaz, the work of the craftsman and of the hands of the goldsmith; the [idols'] clothing is violet and purple,they are all the work of skillful men." 
Jeremiah10:10 But the Lord is the true God and the God of truth (the God Who is Truth). He is the living God and the everlasting King. At His wrath the earth quakes, and the nations are not able to bear His indignation." 
Jeremiah10:11 Thus shall you say to them: The gods, who did not make the heavens and the earth, shall perish from the earth and from under the heavens." 
Jeremiah10:12 God made the earth by His power; He established the world by His wisdom and by His understanding and skill stretched out the heavens. 
Jeremiah10:13 When He utters His voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth. He makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind out from His treasuries and from His storehouses." 
Jeremiah10:14 Every man has become like a brute, irrational and stupid, without knowledge [of God]; every goldsmith is brought to shame by his graven idols; for his molten images are frauds and falsehood, and there is no breath in them." 
Jeremiah10:15 They are devoid of worth, usefulness, or truth, a work of delusion and mockery; in their time of trial and punishment they shall [helplessly] perish." 
Jeremiah10:16 The Portion of Jacob [the true God on Whom Israel has a claim] is not like these, for He is the Fashioner and Maker of all things, and Israel is the tribe of His inheritance,the Lord of hosts is His name." 
Jeremiah10:17 Gather up your bundle [of baggage] from the ground, O you who dwell under siege." 
Jeremiah10:18 For thus says the Lord: Behold, I will sling out the inhabitants of the land at this time and will bring distress on them, that they may feel it and find it [to be as I have said, and turn to Me]." 
Jeremiah10:19 Woe is me because of my hurt! [says Jeremiah, speaking for the nation.] My wound is grievous and incurable. But I said, Surely this sickness and suffering and grief are mine, and I must endure, tolerate, and bear them." 
Jeremiah10:20 My tent (home) is taken by force and plundered, and all my [tent] cords are broken. My children have gone forth [as captives] from me, and they are no more; there is no one to stretch forth my tent any more and to set up my [tent] curtains." 
Jeremiah10:21 For the shepherds [of the people] have become like brutes, irrational and stupid, and have not sought the Lord or inquired of Him or required Him [by necessity and by right of His word]. Therefore they have not dealt prudently and have not prospered, and all their flocks are scattered." 
Jeremiah10:22 Hark, the sound of a rumor! [The invading army] comes!,a great commotion out of the north country,to make the cities of Judah a desolation, a dwelling place of jackals." 
Jeremiah10:23 O Lord [pleads Jeremiah in the name of the people], I know that [the determination of] the way of a man is not in himself; it is not in man [even in a strong man or in a man at his best] to direct his [own] steps. [Ps. 37:23; Prov. 20:24.]" 
Jeremiah10:24 O Lord, correct, instruct, and chastise me, but with judgment and in just measure,not in Your anger, lest You diminish me and bring me to nothing." 
Jeremiah10:25 Pour out Your wrath upon the nations that do not know or recognize You and upon the peoples that do not call upon Your name. For they have devoured Jacob, yes, devoured him and consumed him and made his habitation a desolate waste." 
Jeremiah11:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: 
Jeremiah11:2 Hear the words of this covenant or solemn pledge, and speak to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah11:3 Say to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Cursed is the man who does not heed the words of this covenant or solemn pledge" 
Jeremiah11:4 Which I commanded your fathers at the time that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, Listen to My voice and do according to all that I command you. So will you be My people, and I will be your God," 
Jeremiah11:5 That I may perform the oath which I swore to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. Then I answered, Amen (so be it), O Lord." 
Jeremiah11:6 And the Lord said to me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: Hear the words of this covenant or solemn pledge and do them." 
Jeremiah11:7 For I earnestly protested to and warned your fathers at the time that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, even to this day, protesting to and warning them persistently, saying, Obey My voice." 
Jeremiah11:8 Yet they did not obey or incline their ear [to Me], but everyone walked in the stubbornness of his own evil heart. Therefore I brought upon them all [the calamities threatened in] the words of this covenant or solemn pledge, which I had commanded, but they did not do." 
Jeremiah11:9 And the Lord said to me, A conspiracy is found among the men of Judah and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah11:10 They have turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear My words; they have gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken My covenant or solemn pledge which I made with their fathers." 
Jeremiah11:11 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, I am bringing evil and calamity upon them which they will not be able to escape; though they cry to Me, I will not listen to them." 
Jeremiah11:12 Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry out to the gods to whom they offer incense, but they cannot save them at all in the time of their evil trouble." 
Jeremiah11:13 For [as many as] the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah; and [as many as] the number of the streets of Jerusalem are the altars you have set up to the shameful thing, even altars to burn incense to Baal." 
Jeremiah11:14 Therefore do not pray for this people or lift up a cry or prayer for them, for I will not listen when they cry out to Me in the time of their evil trouble." 
Jeremiah11:15 What right has My beloved [to be] in My house when she has wrought lewdness and done treacherously many times? Can vows and the holy flesh [of your sacrifices] remove from you your wickedness and avert your calamity? Can you by these [escape your doom and] rejoice exultantly? 
Jeremiah11:16 The Lord [acknowledged you once to be worthy to be] called a green olive tree, fair and of good fruit; but with the roar of a great tempest He will set fire to it, and its branches will be consumed. [Ps. 52:8; Jer. 21:14.]" 
Jeremiah11:17 For the Lord of hosts, Who planted you, has pronounced evil and calamity against you because of the evil which the house of Israel and the house of Judah have done against themselves in provoking Me to anger by offering incense to Baal." 
Jeremiah11:18 And the Lord gave me [Jeremiah] knowledge of it [their plot], and I knew it; then You [O Lord] showed me their doings." 
Jeremiah11:19 But I was like a tame lamb that is brought to the slaughter; I did not know that they had devised inventions and schemes against me, saying, Let us destroy the tree with its fruit; let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered." 
Jeremiah11:20 But, O Lord of hosts, Who judges rightly and justly, Who tests the heart and the mind, let me see Your vengeance on them, for to You I have revealed and committed my cause [rolling it upon You]." 
Jeremiah11:21 Therefore thus says the Lord about the men of Anathoth [Jeremiah's hometown], who seek your life [Jeremiah] and say, Prophesy not in the name of the Lord, that you die not by our hands," 
Jeremiah11:22 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will punish them. Their young men will die by the sword, their sons and their daughters will die by famine;" 
Jeremiah11:23 And there will be no remnant [of the conspirators] left, for I will bring evil and calamity upon the men of Anathoth in the year of their punishment." 
Jeremiah12:1 UNCOMPROMISINGLY RIGHTEOUS and rigidly just are You, O Lord, when I complain against and contend with You. Yet let me plead and reason the case with You: Why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why are all they at ease and thriving who deal very treacherously and deceitfully?" 
Jeremiah12:2 You have planted them, yes, they have taken root; they grow, yes, they bring forth fruit. You are near in their mouths but far from their hearts." 
Jeremiah12:3 But You, O Lord, know and understand me and my devotion to You; You see me and try my heart toward You. [O Lord] pull [these rebellious ones] out like sheep for the slaughter and devote and prepare them for the day of slaughter." 
Jeremiah12:4 How long must the land mourn and the grass and herbs of the whole country wither? Through the wickedness of those who dwell in it, the beasts and the birds are consumed and are swept away [by the drought], because men [mocked] me, saying, He shall not [live to] see our final end." 
Jeremiah12:5 [But the Lord rebukes Jeremiah's impatience, saying] If you have raced with men on foot and they have tired you out, then how can you compete with horses? And if [you take to flight] in a land of peace where you feel secure, then what will you do [when you tread the tangled maze of jungle haunted by lions] in the swelling and flooding of the Jordan?" 
Jeremiah12:6 For even your brethren and the house of your father,even they have dealt treacherously with you; yes, even they are [like a pack of hounds] in full cry after you. Believe them not, though they speak fair words and promise good things to you." 
Jeremiah12:7 I have forsaken My house, I have cast off My heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of My life into the hands of her enemies." 
Jeremiah12:8 My heritage has become to Me like a lion in the forest; she has uttered her voice against Me; therefore I have [treated her as if I] hated her. 
Jeremiah12:9 Is My heritage to Me like a speckled bird of prey? Are the birds of prey against her round about? Go, assemble all the wild beasts of the field; bring them to devour." 
Jeremiah12:10 Many shepherds [of an invading host] have destroyed My vineyard, they have trampled My portion underfoot; they have made My pleasant portion a desolate wilderness." 
Jeremiah12:11 They have made it a desolation, and desolate it mourns before Me; the whole land has been made desolate, but no man lays it to heart." 
Jeremiah12:12 Destroyers have come upon all the bare heights in the desert, for the sword of the Lord devours from one end of the land even to the other; no flesh has peace or can find the means to escape." 
Jeremiah12:13 They have sown wheat but have reaped thorns; they have worn themselves out but without profit. And they shall be ashamed of your [lack of] harvests and revenues because of the fierce and glowing anger of the Lord. 
Jeremiah12:14 Thus says the Lord against all My evil neighbor [nations] who touch the inheritance which I have caused My people Israel to inherit: Behold, I will pluck them up from their land and I will pluck up the house of Judah from among them." 
Jeremiah12:15 And after I have plucked them up, I will return and have compassion on them and will bring them back again, every man to his heritage and every man to his land." 
Jeremiah12:16 And if these [neighbor nations] will diligently learn the ways of My people, to swear by My name, saying, As the Lord lives,even as they taught My people to swear by Baal,then will they be built up in the midst of My people." 
Jeremiah12:17 But if any nation will not hear and obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy that nation, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah13:1 THUS THE Lord said to me: Go and buy yourself a linen girdle and put it on your loins, but do not put it in water." 
Jeremiah13:2 So I bought a girdle or waistcloth, according to the word of the Lord, and put it on my loins." 
Jeremiah13:3 And the word of the Lord came to me the second time, saying," 
Jeremiah13:4 Take the girdle which you have bought, which is on your loins, and arise, go to the [river] Euphrates, and hide it there in a cleft of the rock." 
Jeremiah13:5 So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the Lord commanded me." 
Jeremiah13:6 And after many days the Lord said to me, Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take from there the girdle which I commanded you to hide there." 
Jeremiah13:7 Then I went to the Euphrates and dug and took the girdle or waistcloth from the place where I had hidden it. And behold, the girdle was decayed and spoiled; it was good for nothing." 
Jeremiah13:8 Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah13:9 Thus says the Lord: After this manner will I mar the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah13:10 These evil people, who refuse to hear My words, who walk in the stubbornness of their hearts and have gone after other gods to serve them and to worship them, shall even be like this girdle or waistcloth, which is profitable for nothing." 
Jeremiah13:11 For as the girdle clings to the loins of a man, so I caused the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah to cling to Me, says the Lord, that they might be for Me a people, a name, a praise, and a glory; but they would not listen or obey." 
Jeremiah13:12 Therefore you shall speak to them this word: Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Every bottle and jar should be filled with wine. [The people] will say to you, Do we not certainly know that every bottle and jar should be filled with wine?" 
Jeremiah13:13 Then say to them, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will fill with drunkenness all the inhabitants of this land, even the kings who sit upon David's throne, the priests, the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah13:14 And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together, says the Lord. I will not pity or spare or have compassion, that I should not destroy them." 
Jeremiah13:15 Hear and give ear, do not be proud, for the Lord has spoken [says Jeremiah]." 
Jeremiah13:16 Give glory to the Lord your God before He brings darkness and before your feet stumble upon the dark and twilit mountains, and [before], while you are looking for light, He turns it into the shadow of death and makes it thick darkness." 
Jeremiah13:17 But if you will not hear and obey, I will weep in secret for your pride; my eyes will weep bitterly and run down with tears, because the Lord's flock has been taken captive." 
Jeremiah13:18 Say to the king and the queen mother, Humble yourselves and take a lowly seat, for down from your head has come your beautiful crown (the crown of your glory)." 
Jeremiah13:19 The cities of the South (the Negeb) have been shut up, and there is no one to open them; all Judah has been carried away captive, it has been wholly taken captive and into exile." 
Jeremiah13:20 Lift up your eyes and behold those [the eruption of a hostile army] who come from the north. Where is the flock that was given to you [to shepherd], your beautiful flock?" 
Jeremiah13:21 What will you say [O Jerusalem] when He [the Lord] sets over you as head those [tyrannical foreign nations] whom you yourselves [at intervals] have taught to be lovers (allies) with you [instructing them, even your friends, to be head over you]? Will not pangs take hold of you like that of a woman in travail?" 
Jeremiah13:22 And if you say in your heart, Why have these things come upon me?,[the answer is], Because of the greatness of your iniquity has your long robe been pulled aside [showing you in the garb of a menial] and have you [barefooted and treated like a slave] suffered violence." 
Jeremiah13:23 Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then also can you do good who are accustomed and taught [even trained] to do evil. 
Jeremiah13:24 Therefore I will scatter you like chaff driven away by the wind from the desert. 
Jeremiah13:25 This is your lot, the portion measured to you from Me, says the Lord, because you have forgotten Me and trusted in falsehood [false gods and alliances with idolatrous nations]." 
Jeremiah13:26 Therefore I Myself will [retaliate], throwing your skirts up over your face, that your shame [of being clad like a slave] may be exposed." 
Jeremiah13:27 I have seen your detestable acts, even your adulteries and your lustful neighings [after idols], and the lewdness of your harlotry on the hills in the field. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! For how long a time yet will you not [meet My conditions and] be made clean?" 
Jeremiah14:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought: 
Jeremiah14:2 Judah mourns and her gates languish; [her people] sit in black [mourning garb] upon the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem goes up." 
Jeremiah14:3 And their nobles send their little ones and their inferiors for water; they come to the cisterns and find no water. They return with empty vessels; they are put to shame and confounded and cover their heads. 
Jeremiah14:4 Because the ground is cracked and the tillers are dismayed, since there has been no rain on the land, the plowmen are put to shame, and they cover their heads." 
Jeremiah14:5 Yes, even the hind gives birth to her calf in the field and forsakes it, because there is no grass or herbage." 
Jeremiah14:6 And the wild donkeys stand on the bare heights; they pant for air like jackals or crocodiles; their eyesight fails because there is no grass. 
Jeremiah14:7 O Lord, though our iniquities testify against us [prays Jeremiah], deal and work with us for Your own name's sake [that the heathen may witness Your might and faithfulness]! For our backslidings are many; we have sinned against You." 
Jeremiah14:8 O Hope of Israel, her Savior in time of trouble, why should You be like a sojourner in the land and like a wayfaring man who turns aside and spreads his tent to tarry [only] for a night?" 
Jeremiah14:9 Why should You be [hesitant and inactive] like a man stunned and confused, like a mighty man who cannot save? Yet You, O Lord, are in the midst of us, and we are called by Your name; do not leave us!" 
Jeremiah14:10 [And the Lord replied to Jeremiah] Thus says the Lord to this people [Judah]: In the manner and to the degree already pointed out have they loved to wander; they have not restrained their feet. Therefore the Lord does not accept them; He will now [seriously] remember their iniquity and punish them for their sins. 
Jeremiah14:11 The Lord said to me, Do not pray for this people for their good." 
Jeremiah14:12 Though they fast, I will not hear their cry; and though they offer burnt offering and cereal offering [without heartfelt surrender to Me, or by offering it too late], I will not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence." 
Jeremiah14:13 Then said I, Alas, Lord God! Behold, the [false] prophets say to them, You will not see the sword, nor will you have famine; but I [the Lord] will give you assured peace (peace that lasts, the peace of truth) in this place." 
Jeremiah14:14 Then the Lord said to me, The [false] prophets prophesy lies in My name. I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, nor have I spoken to them. They prophesy to you a false or pretended vision, a worthless divination [conjuring or practicing magic, trying to call forth the responses supposed to be given by idols], and the deceit of their own minds." 
Jeremiah14:15 Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the [false] prophets who prophesy in My name,although I did not send them,and who say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed." 
Jeremiah14:16 And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem, victims of famine and sword; and they shall have none to bury them,them, their wives, their sons, and their daughters. For I will pour out their wickedness upon them [and not on their false teachers only, for the people could not have been deceived except by their own consent]." 
Jeremiah14:17 Therefore [Jeremiah] you shall say to them, Let my eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease; for the virgin daughter of my people has been smitten with a great wound, with a very grievous blow." 
Jeremiah14:18 If I go out into the field, then behold, those slain with the sword! And if I enter the city, then behold, those tormented with the diseases of famine! For both prophet and priest go about not knowing what to do or as beggars [exiled] in a land that they know not, and they have no knowledge." 
Jeremiah14:19 [O Lord] have You utterly rejected Judah? Do You loathe Zion? Why have You smitten us so that there is no healing for us? We looked for peace and completeness, but no good came, and for a time of healing, but behold, dismay, disaster, and terror!" 
Jeremiah14:20 We know and acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness and the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against You." 
Jeremiah14:21 Do not abhor, condemn, and spurn us, for Your name's sake; do not dishonor, debase, and lightly esteem Your glorious throne; [earnestly] remember, break not Your covenant or solemn pledge with us." 
Jeremiah14:22 Are there any among the false gods of the nations who can cause rain? Or can the heavens [of their own will] give showers? Are You [alone] not He, O Lord our God? Therefore we will wait [expectantly] for You, for You have made all these things [the heavens and the rain]." 
Jeremiah15:1 THEN THE Lord said to me, Though Moses and Samuel stood [interceding for them] before Me, yet My mind could not be turned with favor toward this people [Judah]. Send them out of My sight and let them go!" 
Jeremiah15:2 And if they say to you, Where shall we go? then tell them, Thus says the Lord: Such as are [destined] for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword; and such as are for famine, to famine; and such as are for captivity, to captivity." 
Jeremiah15:3 And I will appoint over them four kinds [of destroyers], says the Lord: the sword to slay, the dogs to tear and drag away, and the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth to devour and to destroy." 
Jeremiah15:4 And I will cause them to be tossed to and fro among all the kingdoms of the earth and to be made a horror to all nations because of Manasseh son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for [the horrible wickedness] which he did in Jerusalem. [II Kings 21:3-7.]" 
Jeremiah15:5 For who will have pity on you, O Jerusalem? Or who will bemoan you? Or who will turn aside to ask about your welfare?" 
Jeremiah15:6 You have rejected and forsaken Me, says the Lord. You keep going in reverse. Therefore I will stretch out My hand against you and destroy you; I am weary of relenting [concerning your punishment]." 
Jeremiah15:7 I will winnow them with a fan and a winnowing fork in the gates of the land; I will bereave them [of children], I will destroy My people; from their [evil] ways they did not return." 
Jeremiah15:8 I will increase the number of their widows more than the sand of the seas. I will bring upon them, [both] against the mother of young men and the young men [themselves], a destroyer at noonday. I will cause anguish and terrors to fall upon her [Jerusalem] suddenly." 
Jeremiah15:9 She who has borne seven languishes; she has expired. Her sun has gone down while it was yet day; she has been put to shame, confounded, and disgraced. And the rest of them I will deliver to the sword before their enemies, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah15:10 Woe is me, my mother, that you bore me to be a man of strife and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither loaned, nor have men loaned to me, yet everyone curses me. [Jer. 1:18, 19.]" 
Jeremiah15:11 The Lord said, Truly your release, affliction, and strengthening will be for good [purposes]; surely [Jeremiah] I will intercede for you with the enemy and I will cause the enemy to ask for your aid in the time of evil and in the time of affliction. [Jer. 21:1, 2; 37:3; 42:2; Rom. 8:28.]" 
Jeremiah15:12 Can iron break the iron from the north and the bronze? 
Jeremiah15:13 Your [nation's] substance and your treasures will I give as spoil, without price, and that for all your sins, even in all your territory." 
Jeremiah15:14 And I will make [your possessions] to pass with your enemies into a land which you do not know and I will make you to serve [your conquerors] there, for a fire is kindled in My anger which will burn upon you [Israel]." 
Jeremiah15:15 [Jeremiah said] O Lord, You know and understand; [earnestly] remember me and visit me and avenge me on my persecutors. Take me not away [from joy or from life itself] in Your long-suffering [to my enemies]; know that for Your sake I suffer and bear reproach." 
Jeremiah15:16 Your words were found, and I ate them; and Your words were to me a joy and the rejoicing of my heart, for I am called by Your name, O Lord God of hosts." 
Jeremiah15:17 I sat not in the assembly of those who make merry, nor did I rejoice; I sat alone because Your [powerful] hand was upon me, for You had filled me with indignation." 
Jeremiah15:18 Why is my pain perpetual and my wound incurable, refusing to be healed? Will you indeed be to me like a deceitful brook, like waters that fail and are uncertain?" 
Jeremiah15:19 Therefore thus says the Lord [to Jeremiah]: If you return [and give up this mistaken tone of distrust and despair], then I will give you again a settled place of quiet and safety, and you will be My minister; and if you separate the precious from the vile [cleansing your own heart from unworthy and unwarranted suspicions concerning God's faithfulness], you shall be My mouthpiece. [But do not yield to them.] Let them return to you,not you to [the people]." 
Jeremiah15:20 And I will make you to this people a fortified, bronze wall; they will fight against you, but they will not prevail over you, for I am with you to save and deliver you, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah15:21 And I will deliver you out of the hands of the wicked, and I will redeem you out of the palms of the terrible and ruthless tyrants." 
Jeremiah16:1 THE WORD of the Lord came also to me, saying," 
Jeremiah16:2 You shall not take a wife or have sons and daughters in this place [Jerusalem]. 
Jeremiah16:3 For thus says the Lord concerning the sons and daughters who are born in this place and concerning the mothers who bore them and the fathers who begot them in this land: 
Jeremiah16:4 They shall die of deadly diseases. They shall not be lamented, nor shall they be buried, but they shall be like dung upon the face of the ground. They shall perish and be consumed by the sword and by famine, and their dead bodies shall be food for the fowls of the air and for the beasts of the earth." 
Jeremiah16:5 For thus says the Lord: Enter not into the house of mourning, nor go to lament or bemoan [the dead], for I have taken away My peace from this people, says the Lord, even My steadfast love and loving-kindness and tender mercy." 
Jeremiah16:6 Both the great and the small shall die in this land. They shall not be buried, neither shall men lament for them or cut themselves or make themselves bald for them." 
Jeremiah16:7 Neither shall men prepare food for the mourners to comfort them for the dead; nor shall men give them the cup of consolation to drink for their father or for their mother. 
Jeremiah16:8 And you [Jeremiah] shall not go into the house of feasting to sit with them to eat and drink. 
Jeremiah16:9 For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will cause to cease from this place before your very eyes and in your days the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride." 
Jeremiah16:10 And when you tell these people all these words and they inquire of you, Why has the Lord decreed all this enormous evil against us? Or, What is our iniquity? Or, What is the sin that we have committed against the Lord our God?" 
Jeremiah16:11 Then you shall say to them, [It is] because your fathers have forsaken Me, says the Lord, and have walked after other gods and have served and worshiped them and have forsaken Me and have not kept My law," 
Jeremiah16:12 And because you have done worse than your fathers. For behold, every one of you walks after the stubbornness of his own evil heart, so that you do not listen to and obey Me." 
Jeremiah16:13 Therefore I will cast you out of this land [of Judah] into the land [of the Babylonians] neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you will serve other gods day and night, for I will show you no favor there." 
Jeremiah16:14 Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when it shall no more be said, As the Lord lives, Who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt," 
Jeremiah16:15 But, As the Lord lives, Who brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north and from all the countries to which He had driven them. And I will bring them again to their land which I gave to their fathers." 
Jeremiah16:16 Behold, I will send for many fishers, says the Lord, and they will fish them out; and afterward I will send for many hunters, and they will hunt them from every mountain and from every hill and out of the clefts of the rocks." 
Jeremiah16:17 For My eyes are on all their ways; they are not hidden from My face, neither is their iniquity concealed from My eyes." 
Jeremiah16:18 First [before I bring them back to their land] I will doubly recompense and punish them for their iniquity and their sin, because they have polluted My land with the carcasses of their detestable idols and with the abominable things offered to false gods with which they have filled My inheritance." 
Jeremiah16:19 [Then said Jeremiah] O Lord, my Strength and my Stronghold, and my Refuge in the day of affliction, to You shall the nations come from the ends of the earth and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, emptiness, and futility, worthless things in which there is no profit!" 
Jeremiah16:20 Can a man make gods for himself? Such are not gods! 
Jeremiah16:21 Therefore [says the Lord] behold, I will make them know,[yes] this once I will make them know My power and My might; and they will know and recognize that My name is the Lord." 
Jeremiah17:1 THE SIN of Judah is written with a pen or stylus of iron and with the point of a diamond; it is engraved on the tablets of their hearts and on the horns of their altars," 
Jeremiah17:2 While their children [earnestly] remember their [heathen] altars and their Asherim [wooden symbols of the goddess Asherah] beside the green trees upon the high hills. 
Jeremiah17:3 O [Jerusalem] My mountain in the field, I will give your wealth and all your treasures to the spoil and your high places for sin [as the price of your sin] throughout all your territory." 
Jeremiah17:4 And you, through your own fault, will loosen your hand and discontinue from your heritage which I gave you; and I will cause you to serve your enemies in a land which you do not know, for you have kindled a fire in My anger which will burn throughout the ages." 
Jeremiah17:5 Thus says the Lord: Cursed [with great evil] is the strong man who trusts in and relies on frail man, making weak [human] flesh his arm, and whose mind and heart turn aside from the Lord." 
Jeremiah17:6 For he shall be like a shrub or a person naked and destitute in the desert; and he shall not see any good come, but shall dwell in the parched places in the wilderness, in an uninhabited salt land." 
Jeremiah17:7 [Most] blessed is the man who believes in, trusts in, and relies on the Lord, and whose hope and confidence the Lord is." 
Jeremiah17:8 For he shall be like a tree planted by the waters that spreads out its roots by the river; and it shall not see and fear when heat comes; but its leaf shall be green. It shall not be anxious and full of care in the year of drought, nor shall it cease yielding fruit." 
Jeremiah17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and it is exceedingly perverse and corrupt and severely, mortally sick! Who can know it [perceive, understand, be acquainted with his own heart and mind]? [Matt. 13:15-17; Mark 7:21-23; Eph. 4:20-24.]" 
Jeremiah17:10 I the Lord search the mind, I try the heart, even to give to every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his doings." 
Jeremiah17:11 Like the partridge that gathers a brood which she did not hatch and sits on eggs which she has not laid, so is he who gets riches by unjust means and not by right. He will leave them, or they will leave him, in the midst of his days, and at his end he will be a fool." 
Jeremiah17:12 A glorious throne, set on high from the beginning, is the place of our sanctuary (the temple)." 
Jeremiah17:13 O Lord, the Hope of Israel, all who forsake You shall be put to shame. They who depart from You and me [Your prophet] shall [disappear like] writing upon the ground, because they have forsaken the Lord, the Fountain of living waters." 
Jeremiah17:14 Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved, for You are my praise." 
Jeremiah17:15 Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of the Lord [predicting the disaster that you said would befall us]? Let it come now!" 
Jeremiah17:16 But as for me, I have not sought to escape from being a shepherd after You, nor have I desired the woeful day [of judgment]; You know that. Whatever I said was spoken in Your presence and was from You." 
Jeremiah17:17 Be not a terror to me; You are my refuge and my hope in the day of evil. 
Jeremiah17:18 Let those be put to shame who persecute me, but let me not be put to shame; let them be dismayed, but let me not be dismayed. Bring on them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction." 
Jeremiah17:19 Thus said the Lord to me: Go and stand in the gate of the sons of the people, through which the kings of Judah enter and through which they go out, and also [stand] in all the gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:20 Say to them, Hear the word of the Lord, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem who enter through these gates." 
Jeremiah17:21 Thus says the Lord: Take heed to yourselves and for the sake of your lives bear no burden on the Sabbath day or bring it in through the gates of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah17:22 And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath day or do any work, but keep the Sabbath day holy (set apart to the worship of God), as I commanded your fathers." 
Jeremiah17:23 Yet they would not listen and obey or incline their ears; but they stiffened their necks, that they might not hear and might not receive instruction." 
Jeremiah17:24 But if you diligently listen to and obey Me, says the Lord, and bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but keep the Sabbath day holy (set apart to the worship of God), to do no work on it," 
Jeremiah17:25 Then there will enter through the gates of this city kings and princes who will sit upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses,the kings and their princes, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city will be inhabited and last throughout the ages." 
Jeremiah17:26 And people shall come from the cities of Judah and the places round about Jerusalem, from the land of Benjamin, from the lowland, from the hill country, and from the South (the Negeb), bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, cereal offerings and frankincense, and bringing sacrifices of thanksgiving to the house of the Lord." 
Jeremiah17:27 But if you will not listen to Me to keep the Sabbath day holy (set apart to the worship of God), and not to bear a burden and enter in at the gates of Jerusalem [with one] on the Sabbath day, then I will kindle a fire in her gates, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched." 
Jeremiah18:1 THE WORD which came to Jeremiah from the Lord: 
Jeremiah18:2 Arise and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause you to hear My words." 
Jeremiah18:3 Then I went down to the potter's house, and behold, he was working at the wheel." 
Jeremiah18:4 And the vessel that he was making from clay was spoiled in the hand of the potter; so he made it over, reworking it into another vessel as it seemed good to the potter to make it." 
Jeremiah18:5 Then the word of the Lord came to me: 
Jeremiah18:6 O house of Israel, can I not do with you as this potter does? says the Lord. Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are you in My hand, O house of Israel." 
Jeremiah18:7 At one time I will suddenly speak concerning a nation or kingdom, that I will pluck up and break down and destroy it;" 
Jeremiah18:8 And if [the people of] that nation concerning which I have spoken turn from their evil, I will relent and reverse My decision concerning the evil that I thought to do to them." 
Jeremiah18:9 At another time I will suddenly speak concerning a nation or kingdom, that I will build up and plant it;" 
Jeremiah18:10 And if they do evil in My sight, obeying not My voice, then I will regret and reverse My decision concerning the good with which I said I would benefit them." 
Jeremiah18:11 Now therefore say to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I am shaping evil against you and devising a plan against you. Return now each one from his evil way; reform your [accustomed] ways and make your [individual] actions good and right." 
Jeremiah18:12 But they will say, That is in vain! For we will walk after our own devices, and we will each do as the stubbornness of his own evil heart dictates." 
Jeremiah18:13 Therefore thus says the Lord: Ask now among the nations: Who has heard such things? Virgin Israel has done a very vile and horrible thing. 
Jeremiah18:14 Will the snow of Mount Lebanon fail and vanish from its rocks [which tower above the land of Israel]? Will the cold, rushing waters of strange lands [that dash down from afar] be dried up?" 
Jeremiah18:15 Yet My people have forgotten Me; they burn incense to false gods, they have been caused to stumble in their ways and in the ancient roads, to walk in bypaths, in a way not graded and built up [not on a highway]," 
Jeremiah18:16 Making their land a desolation and a horror, a thing to be hissed at perpetually; everyone who passes by shall be astounded and horrified and shake his head." 
Jeremiah18:17 I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I will show them My back and not My face in the day of their calamity [says the Lord]. 
Jeremiah18:18 Then [my enemies] said, Come and let us devise schemes against Jeremiah; for the law [of Moses] shall not perish from the priest [as this false prophet Jeremiah predicts], nor will counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, let us smite him with the tongue [making a charge against him to the king], and let us not pay any attention to his words." 
Jeremiah18:19 Give heed to me, Lord; listen to [what] my adversaries [are plotting to do to me,and intercede]." 
Jeremiah18:20 Shall evil be recompensed for good? Yet they have dug a pit for my life. [Earnestly] remember that I stood before You to speak good for them, to turn away Your anger from them." 
Jeremiah18:21 Therefore deliver up their children to the famine; give them over to the power of the sword. And let their wives become childless and widows; let their men meet death by pestilence, their young men be slain by the sword in battle." 
Jeremiah18:22 Let a cry be heard from their houses when You suddenly bring a troop upon them, for they have dug a pit to take me and have hidden snares for my feet." 
Jeremiah18:23 Yet, Lord, You know all their plotting against me to slay me. Forgive not their iniquity, nor blot out their sin from Your sight. But let them be overthrown before You; deal with them in the time of Your anger." 
Jeremiah19:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: Go and get a potter's earthen bottle, and take some of the old people and some of the elderly priests" 
Jeremiah19:2 And go out to the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], which is by the entrance of the Potsherd Gate; and proclaim there the words that I shall tell you," 
Jeremiah19:3 And say, Hear the word of the Lord, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am going to bring such evil upon this place that the ears of whoever hears of it will tingle." 
Jeremiah19:4 Because the people have forsaken Me and have estranged and profaned this place [Jerusalem] by burning incense in it to other gods that neither they nor their fathers nor the kings of Judah ever knew, and because they have filled this place with the blood of innocents" 
Jeremiah19:5 And have built the high places of Baal to burn their sons in the fire as burnt offerings to Baal, which I commanded not nor spoke of it, nor did it come into My mind and heart," 
Jeremiah19:6 Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when this place shall no more be called Topheth or the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom], but the Valley of Slaughter. [Jer. 7:31-32.]" 
Jeremiah19:7 And I will pour out and make void the counsel and the plans of [the men of] Judah and Jerusalem in this place, and I will cause their people to fall by the sword before their enemies and by the hands of those who seek their lives, and their dead bodies I will give to be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth." 
Jeremiah19:8 And I will make this city an astonishment and a horror and a hissing; everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss [in scorn] because of all its plagues and disasters. 
Jeremiah19:9 And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and their daughters, and they shall eat each one the flesh of his neighbor and friend in the siege and in the distress with which their enemies and those who seek their lives distress them." 
Jeremiah19:10 Then you shall break the bottle in the sight of the men who accompany you," 
Jeremiah19:11 And say to them, Thus said the Lord of hosts: Even so will I break this people and this city as one breaks a potter's vessel, so that it cannot be mended. Men will bury in Topheth because there will be no other place for burial and until there is no more room to bury." 
Jeremiah19:12 Thus will I do to this place, says the Lord, and to its inhabitants; and I will even make this city like Topheth." 
Jeremiah19:13 And the houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah, which are defiled, shall be like the place of Topheth,even all the houses upon whose roofs incense has been burned to all the host of the heavens and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods. [Acts 7:42, 43.]" 
Jeremiah19:14 Then came Jeremiah from Topheth, where the Lord had sent him to prophesy, and he stood in the court of the Lord's house and said to all the people," 
Jeremiah19:15 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all its towns all the evil that I have pronounced against it, because they have stiffened their necks, refusing to hear My words." 
Jeremiah20:1 NOW PASHHUR son of Immer, the priest, who was [also] chief officer in the house of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things." 
Jeremiah20:2 Then Pashhur beat Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks that were at the upper Benjamin Gate by the house of the Lord. [Jer. 1:19; 15:15.] 
Jeremiah20:3 And the next day Pashhur brought Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then Jeremiah said to him, The Lord does not call your name Pashhur, but Magor-missabib [terror on every side]." 
Jeremiah20:4 For thus says the Lord: Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends; they will fall by the sword of their enemies while you look on. And I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon; he will carry them captive to Babylon and will slay them with the sword." 
Jeremiah20:5 Moreover, I will deliver all the riches of this city,all the results of its labors, all its precious things, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah,into the hand of their enemies, who will make them a prey and plunder them and seize them and carry them to Babylon." 
Jeremiah20:6 And you, Pashhur, and all who dwell in your house shall go into captivity; you shall go to Babylon, and there you shall die and be buried, you and all your friends to whom you have prophesied falsely." 
Jeremiah20:7 [But Jeremiah said] O Lord, You have persuaded and deceived me, and I was persuaded and deceived; You are stronger than I am and You have prevailed. I am a laughingstock all the day; everyone mocks me." 
Jeremiah20:8 For whenever I speak, I must cry out and complain; I shout, Violence and destruction! For the word of the Lord has become to me a reproach and a derision and has brought me insult all day long." 
Jeremiah20:9 If I say, I will not make mention of [the Lord] or speak any more in His name, in my mind and heart it is as if there were a burning fire shut up in my bones. And I am weary of enduring and holding it in; I cannot [contain it any longer]." 
Jeremiah20:10 For I have heard many whispering and defaming, [There is] terror on every side! Denounce him! Let us denounce him! Say all my familiar friends, they who watch for my fall, Perhaps he will be persuaded and deceived; then we will prevail against him, and we will get our revenge on him." 
Jeremiah20:11 But the Lord is with me as a mighty and terrible One; therefore my persecutors will stumble, and they will not overcome [me]. They will be utterly put to shame, for they will not deal wisely or prosper [in their schemes]; their eternal dishonor will never be forgotten." 
Jeremiah20:12 But, O Lord of hosts, You Who try the righteous, Who see the heart and the mind, let me see Your vengeance on them, for to You have I revealed and committed my cause." 
Jeremiah20:13 Sing to the Lord! Praise the Lord! For He has delivered the life of the poor and needy from the hands of evildoers. 
Jeremiah20:14 Cursed be the day on which I was born! Let not the day on which my mother bore me be blessed! 
Jeremiah20:15 Cursed be the man who brought the tidings to my father, saying, A son is born to you!,making him very glad." 
Jeremiah20:16 And let that man be like the cities which the Lord overthrew, and did not relent. Let him hear the [war] cry in the morning and the shouting of alarm at noon," 
Jeremiah20:17 Because he did not slay me in the womb, so that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb always great." 
Jeremiah20:18 Why did I come out of the womb to see labor and sorrow, that my days should be consumed in shame?" 
Jeremiah21:1 THE WORD which came to Jeremiah from the Lord when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur son of Malchiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying," 
Jeremiah21:1 THE WORD which came to Jeremiah from the Lord when King Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur son of Malchiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah, saying," 
Jeremiah21:2 Inquire, I pray you, of the Lord for us, for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon is making war against us. Perhaps the Lord will deal with us according to all His wonderful works, forcing him to withdraw from us." 
Jeremiah21:3 Then said Jeremiah to them, Say this to Zedekiah:" 
Jeremiah21:4 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Behold, I will turn back and dull the edge of the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which you fight against the king of Babylon and the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the walls; and I will bring them into the midst of this city [Jerusalem]." 
Jeremiah21:5 And I Myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm in anger, in fury, and in great indignation and wrath." 
Jeremiah21:6 And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast; they will die of a great pestilence." 
Jeremiah21:7 And afterward, says the Lord, I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah and his servants and the people in this city who survive the pestilence, the sword, and the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and into the hands of their enemies, into the hands of those who seek their lives. And he will smite them with the edge of the sword; he will not spare them nor have pity or mercy and compassion upon them." 
Jeremiah21:8 And to this people you [Jeremiah] shall say, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death." 
Jeremiah21:9 He who remains in this city [Jerusalem] shall die by the sword and by famine and by pestilence. But he who goes out and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be to him his only booty [as a prize of war]." 
Jeremiah21:10 For I have set My face against this city for evil and not for good, says the Lord. It shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire." 
Jeremiah21:11 And concerning the royal house of the king of Judah, hear the word of the Lord:" 
Jeremiah21:12 O house of David, thus says the Lord: Execute justice in the morning, and deliver from the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed, lest My wrath go forth like fire and burn so that none can quench it,because of the evil of your doings." 
Jeremiah21:13 Behold, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley, O rock of the plain, says the Lord,you who say, Who shall come down against us? Or, Who shall enter into our dwelling places?" 
Jeremiah21:14 And I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says the Lord. I will kindle a fire in your forest, and it will devour all that is round about you." 
Jeremiah22:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: Go down to the house of the king of Judah and speak there this word: 
Jeremiah22:2 Hear the word of the Lord, O king of Judah, you who sit upon the throne of David,you and your servants and your people who enter by these gates." 
Jeremiah22:3 Thus says the Lord: Execute justice and righteousness, and deliver out of the hand of the oppressor him who has been robbed. And do no wrong; do no violence to the stranger or temporary resident, the fatherless, or the widow, nor shed innocent blood in this place." 
Jeremiah22:4 For if you will indeed obey this word, then will there enter in through the gates of this [the king's] house kings sitting [for David] upon David's throne, riding in chariots and on horses,they and their servants and their people." 
Jeremiah22:5 But if you will not hear these words, I swear by Myself, says the Lord, that this house will become a desolation." 
Jeremiah22:6 For thus says the Lord concerning the house of the king of Judah: [If you will not listen to Me, though] you are [as valuable] to Me as [the fat pastures of] Gilead [east of the Jordan] or as the [plentiful] summit of Lebanon [west of the Jordan], yet surely I will make you a wilderness and uninhabited cities." 
Jeremiah22:7 And I will prepare, solemnly set apart, and appoint [to execute My judgments against you] destroyers, each with his weapons, and they will cut down your [palaces built of] choicest cedars and cast them into the fire." 
Jeremiah22:8 And many nations will pass by this city, and every man will say to his neighbor, Why has the Lord done this to this great city?" 
Jeremiah22:9 Then they will answer, Because [the people] forsook the covenant or solemn pledge with the Lord their God and worshiped other gods and served them." 
Jeremiah22:10 Weep not for him who is dead nor bemoan him; but weep bitterly for him who goes away [into captivity], for he shall return no more nor see his native country [again]." 
Jeremiah22:11 For thus says the Lord concerning Shallum son of Josiah king of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father and who went forth out of this place: [Shallum] shall not return here any more;" 
Jeremiah22:12 But he shall die in the place where they have led him captive, and he shall see this land no more." 
Jeremiah22:13 Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness and his [upper] chambers by injustice, who uses his neighbor's service without wages and does not give him his pay [for his work]," 
Jeremiah22:14 Who says, I will build myself a wide house with large rooms, and he cuts himself out windows, and it is ceiled or paneled with cedar and painted with vermilion." 
Jeremiah22:15 Do you think that being a king [merely] means [self-indulgent] vying [with Solomon] and striving to excel in cedar [palaces]? Did not your father [Josiah], as he ate and drank, do justice and righteousness [being upright and in right standing with God]? Then it was well with him." 
Jeremiah22:16 He judged and defended the cause of the poor and needy; then it was well. Was not [all] this [what it means] to know and recognize Me? says the Lord. 
Jeremiah22:17 But your eyes and your heart are only for your covetousness and dishonest gain, for shedding innocent blood, for oppression and doing violence." 
Jeremiah22:18 Therefore thus says the Lord concerning Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah: [Relatives] shall not lament for him, saying, Ah, my brother! or, Ah, sister, [how great our loss! Subjects] shall not lament for him saying, Ah, lord! or Ah, his majesty! or Ah, [how great was] his glory!" 
Jeremiah22:19 [No] he shall be buried with the burial of a donkey,dragged out and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah22:20 Go up [north] to Lebanon and cry out, and raise your voice in [the hills] of Bashan [across the Jordan], and cry out from Abarim [a range of mountains southeast of Palestine], for all your lovers (the king's chosen allies) are destroyed. [Jer. 27:6-7.]" 
Jeremiah22:21 I spoke to you in your [times of] prosperity, but you said, I will not listen! This has been your attitude from your youth; you have not obeyed My voice." 
Jeremiah22:22 The wind [of adversity] shall pasture upon and consume all your shepherds (your princes and statesmen), and your lovers (allies) shall go into captivity. Surely then shall you be ashamed and confounded and dismayed because of all your wickedness." 
Jeremiah22:23 O inhabitant of Lebanon [Jerusalem, whose palaces are made of Lebanon's trees], you who make your nest among the cedars, how you will groan and how pitiable you will be when pangs come upon you, pain like that of a woman in childbirth! [I Kings 7:2.]" 
Jeremiah22:24 As I live, says the Lord, though Coniah [also called Jeconiah and Jehoiachin] son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet [ring] upon My right hand, yet would I tear you off." 
Jeremiah22:25 And I will give you into the hands of those who seek your life and into the hand of those of whom you are afraid, even into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and into the hands of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah22:26 And I will hurl you and the mother who bore you into another country, where you were not born, and there you will die." 
Jeremiah22:27 But to the land to which they will yearn to return, there they will not return." 
Jeremiah22:28 Is this man [King] Coniah a despised, broken pot? Is he a vessel in which no one takes pleasure? Why are they hurled out, he and his royal offspring, and cast into a land which they do not know, understand, or recognize?" 
Jeremiah22:29 O land, land, land, hear the word of the Lord!" 
Jeremiah22:30 Thus says the Lord: Write this man [Coniah] down as childless, a man who shall not prosper in his days, for no man of his offspring shall succeed in sitting upon the throne of David and ruling any more in Judah." 
Jeremiah23:1 WOE TO the shepherds (the civil leaders) who destroy and scatter the sheep of My pasturing! says the Lord. 
Jeremiah23:2 Therefore thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for and feed My people: You have scattered My flock and driven them away and have not visited and attended to them; behold, I will visit and attend to you for the evil of your doings, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:3 And I will gather the remnant of My flock out of all the countries to which I have driven them and will bring them again to their folds and pastures; and they will be fruitful and multiply. 
Jeremiah23:4 And I will set up shepherds over them who will feed them. And they will fear no more nor be dismayed, neither will any be missing or lost, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:5 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will raise up to David a righteous Branch (Sprout), and He will reign as King and do wisely and will execute justice and righteousness in the land." 
Jeremiah23:6 In His days Judah shall be saved and Israel shall dwell safely: and this is His name by which He shall be called: The Lord Our Righteousness. [Matt. 1:21-23; Rom. 3:22.] 
Jeremiah23:7 Therefore behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when they shall no more say, As the Lord lives, Who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt," 
Jeremiah23:8 But, As the Lord lives, Who brought up and led the offspring of the house of Israel from the north country and from all the countries to which I had driven them. And they shall dwell in their own land. [Jer. 16:14-15]." 
Jeremiah23:9 Concerning the prophets: My heart [says Jeremiah] is broken within me, all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, a man whom wine has overcome, because of the Lord and because of His holy words [which He has pronounced against unfaithful leaders]." 
Jeremiah23:10 For the land is full of adulterers (forsakers of God, Israel's true Husband). Because of the curse [of God upon it] the land mourns, the pastures of the wilderness are dried up. They [both false prophets and people] rush into wickedness; and their course is evil, their might is not right." 
Jeremiah23:11 For both [false] prophet and priest are ungodly and profane; even in My house have I found their wickedness, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:12 Therefore their way will be to them like slippery paths in the dark; they will be driven on and fall into them. For I will bring evil upon them in the year of their punishment, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:13 And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria: they prophesied by Baal and caused My people Israel to err and go astray. 
Jeremiah23:14 I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem a horrible thing: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they encourage and strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that none returns from his wickedness. They have all of them become to Me like Sodom, and her inhabitants like Gomorrah." 
Jeremiah23:15 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts concerning the prophets: Behold, I will feed them with [the bitterness of] wormwood and make them drink the [poisonous] water of gall, for from the [false] prophets of Jerusalem profaneness and ungodliness have gone forth into all the land." 
Jeremiah23:16 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Do not listen to the words of the [false] prophets who prophesy to you. They teach you vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility) and fill you with vain hopes; they speak a vision of their own minds and not from the mouth of the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:17 They are continually saying to those who despise Me and the word of the Lord, The Lord has said: You shall have peace; and they say to everyone who walks after the stubbornness of his own mind and heart, No evil shall come upon you." 
Jeremiah23:18 For who among them has stood in the council of the Lord, that he should perceive and hear His word? Who has marked His word [noticing and observing and giving attention to it] and has [actually] heard it?" 
Jeremiah23:19 Behold, the tempest of the Lord has gone forth in wrath, a whirling tempest; it shall whirl and burst upon the heads of the wicked." 
Jeremiah23:20 The anger of the Lord shall not turn back until He has executed and accomplished the thoughts and intents of His mind and heart. In the latter days you shall consider and understand it perfectly. 
Jeremiah23:21 I did not send these [false] prophets, yet they ran; I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied." 
Jeremiah23:22 But if they had stood in My council, then they would have caused My people to hear My words, then they would have turned them [My people] from their evil way and from the evil of their doings." 
Jeremiah23:23 Am I a God at hand, says the Lord, and not a God afar off?" 
Jeremiah23:24 Can anyone hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? says the Lord. Do not I fill heaven and earth? says the Lord. 
Jeremiah23:25 I have heard what the prophets have said who prophesy lies in My name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed [visions on my bed at night]." 
Jeremiah23:26 [How long shall this state of things continue?] How long yet shall it be in the minds of the prophets who prophesy falsehood, even the prophets of the deceit of their own hearts," 
Jeremiah23:27 Who think that they can cause My people to forget My name by their dreams which every man tells to his neighbor, just as their fathers forgot My name because of Baal?" 
Jeremiah23:28 The prophet who has a dream, let him tell his dream; but he who has My word, let him speak My word faithfully. What has straw in common with wheat [for nourishment]? says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:29 Is not My word like fire [that consumes all that cannot endure the test]? says the Lord, and like a hammer that breaks in pieces the rock [of most stubborn resistance]?" 
Jeremiah23:30 Therefore behold, I am against the [false] prophets, says the Lord, [I am even now descending upon them with punishment, these prophets] who steal My words from one another [imitating the phrases of the true prophets]." 
Jeremiah23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets, says the Lord, who use their [own deceitful] tongues and say, Thus says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:32 Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, says the Lord, and tell them and cause My people to err and go astray by their lies and by their vain boasting and recklessness,when I did not send them or command them; nor do they profit these people at all, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:33 And when these people, or a prophet or a priest, ask you, What is the burden of the Lord [the thing to be lifted up now]? then you shall say to them, What burden [indeed]! [You are the burden!] And I will disburden Myself of you and I will cast you off, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:34 And as for the prophet, the priest, or [any of these] the people, whoever [in mockery calls the word of the Lord a burden and] says, The burden of the Lord, I will even visit in wrath and punish that man and his house." 
Jeremiah23:35 [For the future, in speaking of the utterances of the Lord] thus shall you say every one to his neighbor and every one to his brother: What has the Lord answered? or, What has the Lord spoken?" 
Jeremiah23:36 But the burden of the Lord you must mention no more, for every man's burden is his own response and word [for as they mockingly call all prophecies burdens, whether good or bad, so will it prove to be to them; God will take them at their own word]; for you pervert the words [not of a lifeless idol, but] of the living God, the Lord of hosts, our God!" 
Jeremiah23:37 Thus shall you [reverently] say to the prophet: What has the Lord answered you? Or, What has the Lord spoken?" 
Jeremiah23:38 But if you say, The burden of the Lord, therefore thus says the Lord: Because you said these words, The burden of the Lord, when I sent to you, saying, You shall not say, The burden of the Lord," 
Jeremiah23:39 Therefore behold, I, even I, will assuredly take you up and cast you away from My presence, you and the city [Jerusalem] which I gave to you and to your fathers." 
Jeremiah23:40 And I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you and a perpetual shame which will not be forgotten. 
Jeremiah24:1 AFTER NEBUCHADREZZAR king of Babylon had taken into exile Jeconiah [also called Coniah and Jehoiachin] son of Jehoiakim king of Judah and the princes of Judah, with the craftsmen and smiths from Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon, the Lord showed me [in a vision] two baskets of figs set before the temple of the Lord." 
Jeremiah24:2 One basket had very good figs, like the figs that are first ripe; but the other basket had very bad figs, so bad that they could not be eaten." 
Jeremiah24:3 Then the Lord said to me, What do you see, Jeremiah? And I said, Figs,the good figs very good, and the bad very bad, so bad that they cannot be eaten." 
Jeremiah24:4 Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah24:5 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Like these good figs, so will I regard the captives of Judah whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good." 
Jeremiah24:6 For I will set My eyes upon them for good, and I will bring them again to this land; and I will build them up and not pull them down, and I will plant them and not pluck them up." 
Jeremiah24:7 And I will give them a heart to know (recognize, understand, and be acquainted with) Me, that I am the Lord; and they will be My people, and I will be their God, for they will return to Me with their whole heart." 
Jeremiah24:8 And as for the bad figs, which are so bad that they cannot be eaten, surely thus says the Lord, So will I give up Zedekiah king of Judah and his princes and the residue of Jerusalem who remains in this land and those who dwell in the land of Egypt." 
Jeremiah24:9 I will even give them up to be a dismay and a horror and to be tossed to and fro among all the kingdoms of the earth for evil, to be a reproach, a byword or proverb, a taunt, and a curse in all places where I will drive them." 
Jeremiah24:10 And I will send the sword, famine, and pestilence among them until they are consumed from off the land that I gave to them and to their fathers." 
Jeremiah25:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah in the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah,which was the first year of the reign of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, 
Jeremiah25:2 Which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: 
Jeremiah25:3 For these twenty-three years,from the thirteenth year of Josiah son of Amon king of Judah, even to this day,the word of the Lord has come to me and I have spoken to you persistently early and late, but you have not listened and obeyed." 
Jeremiah25:4 Although the Lord persistently sent you all the prophets, His servants, yet you have not listened and obeyed or [even] inclined your ear to hear." 
Jeremiah25:5 [The prophets came on My behalf] saying, Turn again now every one from his evil way and wrongdoing; [that you may not forfeit the right to] dwell in the land that the Lord gave to you and to your fathers from of old and forevermore." 
Jeremiah25:6 Do not go after other gods to serve and worship them, and do not provoke Me to anger with the works of your hands. Then I will do you no harm." 
Jeremiah25:7 Yet you have not listened to and obeyed Me, says the Lord, that you might provoke Me to anger with the works (idols) made by your hands to your own hurt." 
Jeremiah25:8 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts: Because you have not heard and obeyed My words," 
Jeremiah25:9 Behold, I will send for all the tribes of the north, says the Lord, and I will send for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, My servant [or agent to fulfill My designs], and I will bring them against this land and its inhabitants and against all these nations round about; and I will devote them [to God] and utterly destroy them and make them an amazement, a hissing, and perpetual and agelong desolations." 
Jeremiah25:10 Moreover, I will take from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones [grinding out the meal] and the light of the candle [which every home burned throughout the night]. [Jer. 7:34.]" 
Jeremiah25:11 And this whole land shall be a waste and an astonishment, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. [II Chron. 36:20-23; Jer. 4:27; 12:11, 12; Dan. 9:2.]" 
Jeremiah25:12 Then when seventy years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of the Chaldeans, says the Lord, for their iniquity, and will make the land [of the Chaldeans] a perpetual waste. [Jer. 29:10.]" 
Jeremiah25:13 And I will bring upon that land all My words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations." 
Jeremiah25:14 For many nations and great kings shall make bondmen of them, even them [the Chaldeans who enslaved other nations]; and I will recompense [all of] them according to their deeds and according to the work of their [own] hands." 
Jeremiah25:15 For thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, to me: Take this cup of the wine of wrath from My hand and cause all the nations to whom I send you to drink it." 
Jeremiah25:16 They shall drink and reel to and fro and be crazed because of the sword that I will send among them. 
Jeremiah25:17 Then I [Jeremiah] took the cup from the Lord's hand and made all the nations drink it to whom the Lord had sent me: [that is,]" 
Jeremiah25:18 Jerusalem and the cities of Judah [being most guilty because their privileges were greatest], its kings and princes, to make them a desolation, an astonishment, a hissing, and a curse, as it is to this day; [I Pet. 4:17.]" 
Jeremiah25:19 Pharaoh king of Egypt, his servants, his princes, all his people," 
Jeremiah25:20 And all the mixed foreign population; all the kings of the land of Uz; and all the kings of the land of the Philistines and [their cities of] Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod;" 
Jeremiah25:21 Edom, Moab, and the children of Ammon;" 
Jeremiah25:22 All the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the islands and the coastlands across the [Mediterranean] Sea;" 
Jeremiah25:23 Dedan, Tema, Buz [neighboring tribes north of Arabia], and all who clip off the corners of their hair and beards; [Lev. 19:27; Jer. 9:26.]" 
Jeremiah25:24 All the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the mixed foreign people who dwell in the desert; 
Jeremiah25:25 All the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam (Persia), and all the kings of Media;" 
Jeremiah25:26 All the kings of the north, far and near, one after another,and all the kingdoms of the world which are on the face of the earth. And after them the king of Sheshach (Babel or Babylon) shall drink." 
Jeremiah25:27 Then you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Drink, be drunk, vomit, and fall to rise no more because of the sword which I am sending among you." 
Jeremiah25:28 And if they refuse to take the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts: You shall surely drink!" 
Jeremiah25:29 For behold, I am beginning to work evil in the city which is called by My Name, and shall you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, for I am calling for a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth, says the Lord of hosts. [Jer. 7:10.]" 
Jeremiah25:30 Therefore prophesy against them all these words and say to them: The Lord shall roar from on high and utter His voice from His holy habitation; He shall roar mightily against His fold and pasture. He shall give a shout like those who tread grapes [in the winepress, but His shout will be] against all the inhabitants of the earth." 
Jeremiah25:31 A noise will come even to the ends of the earth, for the Lord has a controversy and an indictment against the nations; He will enter into judgment with all mankind; as for the wicked, He will give them to the sword, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah25:32 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, evil will go forth from nation to nation, and a great whirling tempest will rise from the uttermost parts of the earth." 
Jeremiah25:33 And those slain by the Lord shall be at that day from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth. They shall not be lamented or gathered or buried; their [dead bodies] shall be dung upon the ground. [Jer. 8:2; 16:4.] 
Jeremiah25:34 Wail, you shepherds, and cry; and roll in ashes, you principal ones of the flock. For the days of your slaughter and of your dispersions have fully come, and you shall fall and be dashed into pieces like a choice vessel." 
Jeremiah25:35 And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principal ones of the flock any means of escape." 
Jeremiah25:36 A voice! The cry of the shepherds and the wailing of the principal ones of the flock! For the Lord is laying waste and destroying their pasture. 
Jeremiah25:37 And the peaceable folds are devastated and brought to silence because of the fierce anger of the Lord. 
Jeremiah25:38 He has left His shelter like the lion; for their land has become a waste and an astonishment because of the fierceness of the oppressor and because of [the Lord's] fierce anger. 
Jeremiah26:1 IN THE beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah came this word from the Lord: 
Jeremiah26:2 Thus says the Lord: Stand in the court of the Lord's house [Jeremiah] and speak to all [the people of] the cities of Judah who come to worship in the Lord's house all the words that I command you to speak to them; subtract not a word. 
Jeremiah26:3 It may be that they will listen and turn every man from his evil way, that I may relent and reverse My decision concerning the evil which I purpose to do to them because of their evil doings." 
Jeremiah26:4 And you will say to them, Thus says the Lord: If you will not listen to and obey Me, to walk in My law, which I have set before you," 
Jeremiah26:5 And to hear and obey the words of My servants the prophets, whom I have sent to you urgently and persistently,though you have not listened and obeyed," 
Jeremiah26:6 Then will I make this house [the temple] like Shiloh [the home of the Tent of Meeting, abandoned and later destroyed after the ark was captured by the Philistines], and I will make this city subject to the curses of all nations of the earth [so vile in their sight will it be]. [I Sam. 4; Jer. 7:12.]" 
Jeremiah26:7 And the priests and the [false] prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the Lord. 
Jeremiah26:8 Now when Jeremiah had finished speaking all that the Lord had commanded him to speak to all the people, the priests and the [false] prophets and all the people seized him, saying, You shall surely die!" 
Jeremiah26:9 Why have you prophesied in the name of the Lord, saying, This house shall be like Shiloh [after the ark of the Lord had been taken by our enemies] and this city [Jerusalem] shall be desolate, without inhabitant? And all the people were gathered around Jeremiah in the [outer area of the] house of the Lord." 
Jeremiah26:10 When the princes of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king's house to the house of the Lord and sat down in the entry of the New Gate of the house of the Lord." 
Jeremiah26:11 Then the priests and the prophets said to the princes and to all the people, This man is deserving of death, for he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your own ears." 
Jeremiah26:12 Then Jeremiah said to all the princes and to all the people: The Lord sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that you have heard. 
Jeremiah26:13 Therefore now amend your ways and your doings and obey the voice of the Lord your God; then the Lord will relent and reverse the decision concerning the evil which He has pronounced against you. 
Jeremiah26:14 As for me, behold, I am in your hands; do with me as seems good and suitable to you." 
Jeremiah26:15 But know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves and upon this city and upon its inhabitants, for in truth the Lord has sent me to you to speak all these words in your hearing." 
Jeremiah26:16 Then said the princes and all the people to the priests and to the prophets: This man is not deserving of death, for he has spoken to us in the name of the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah26:17 Then certain of the elders of the land arose and said to all the assembly of the people," 
Jeremiah26:18 Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah and said to all the people of Judah, Thus says the Lord of hosts: Zion shall be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps [of ruins], and the mountain of the house [of the Lord,Mount Moriah, on which stands the temple, shall become covered not with buildings, but] like a densely wooded height. [Mic. 3:12.]" 
Jeremiah26:18 Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah and said to all the people of Judah, Thus says the Lord of hosts: Zion shall be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps [of ruins], and the mountain of the house [of the Lord,Mount Moriah, on which stands the temple, shall become covered not with buildings, but] like a densely wooded height. [Mic. 3:12.]" 
Jeremiah26:19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put [Micah] to death? Did he not [reverently] fear the Lord and entreat the Lord? And did not the Lord relent and reverse the decision concerning the evil which He had pronounced against them? But [here] we are thinking of committing what will be a great evil against ourselves. 
Jeremiah26:19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put [Micah] to death? Did he not [reverently] fear the Lord and entreat the Lord? And did not the Lord relent and reverse the decision concerning the evil which He had pronounced against them? But [here] we are thinking of committing what will be a great evil against ourselves. 
Jeremiah26:20 And there was also a man who prophesied in the name of the Lord, Uriah son of Shemaiah of Kiriath-jearim, who prophesied against this city and against this land in words similar to those of Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah26:21 And when Jehoiakim the king, with all his mighty men and all the princes, heard his words, the king sought to put [Uriah] to death; but when Uriah heard of it, he was afraid and fled and escaped to Egypt." 
Jeremiah26:22 And Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt, namely, Elnathan son of Achbor and certain other men [who went] with him into Egypt." 
Jeremiah26:23 And they fetched Uriah from Egypt and brought him to Jehoiakim the king, who slew him [God's spokesman] with the sword and cast his dead body among the graves of the common people." 
Jeremiah26:24 But the hand of Ahikam son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, that he might not be given into the hands of the people to put him [also] to death." 
Jeremiah27:1 IN THE beginning of the reign of Zedekiah son of Josiah king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the Lord:" 
Jeremiah27:2 Thus says the Lord to me: Make for yourself thongs and yoke bars and put them on your neck," 
Jeremiah27:3 And send them to the king of Edom, to the king of Moab, to the king of the Ammonites, to the king of Tyre, and to the king of Sidon by the hand of the messengers who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah." 
Jeremiah27:4 And command them to say to their masters, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Thus shall you say to your masters:" 
Jeremiah27:5 I have made the earth, the men, and the beasts that are upon the face of the earth by My great power and by My outstretched arm, and I give it to whomever it seems right and suitable to Me." 
Jeremiah27:6 And now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, My servant and instrument, and the beasts of the field also I have given him to serve him." 
Jeremiah27:7 And all nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson until the [God-appointed] time [of punishment] of his own land comes; and then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave. 
Jeremiah27:8 But any nation or kingdom that will not serve this same Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nation will I punish, says the Lord, with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence, until I have consumed it by [Nebuchadnezzar's] hand." 
Jeremiah27:9 So do not listen to your [false] prophets, your diviners, your dreamers [and your dreams, whether your own or others'], your soothsayers, your sorcerers, who say to you, You shall not serve the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:10 For they prophesy a lie to you which will cause you to be removed far from your land; and I will drive you out, and you will perish." 
Jeremiah27:11 But any nation that brings its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serves him, that nation will I let remain on its own land, says the Lord, to cultivate it and dwell in it." 
Jeremiah27:12 I spoke also to Zedekiah king of Judah in the same way: Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people, and live." 
Jeremiah27:13 Why will you and your people die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, as the Lord has spoken concerning any nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?" 
Jeremiah27:14 Do not listen to and believe the words of the [false] prophets who are saying to you, You shall not serve the king of Babylon, for it is a lie that they prophesy to you." 
Jeremiah27:15 For I have not sent them, says the Lord; but they are prophesying falsely in My name. [It will only end when] I will drive you out to perish together with the [false] prophets who prophesy to you." 
Jeremiah27:16 Also I said to the priests and to all these people, Thus says the Lord: Do not listen to the words of your [false] prophets who are prophesying to you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the Lord's house shall now shortly be brought back from Babylon; for they are prophesying a lie to you." 
Jeremiah27:17 Do not listen to them or heed them; serve the king of Babylon, and live. Why should this city be laid waste?" 
Jeremiah27:18 But if they are true prophets and if the word of the Lord is really spoken by them, let them now make intercession to the Lord of hosts, that the vessels which are [still] left in the house of the Lord, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem may not go to Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:19 For thus says the Lord of hosts concerning the [bronze] pillars [each twenty-seven feet high], the [bronze] Sea [the laver at which the priests cleansed their hands and feet before ministering at the altar], the [bronze] bases [of the ten lavers in Solomon's temple used for washing animals to be offered as sacrifices], and the remainder of the vessels which are left in this city [Jerusalem], [I Kings 7:23-37; II Chron. 4:6; Jer. 52:17.]" 
Jeremiah27:20 Which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take when he carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon Jeconiah [also called Coniah and Jehoiachin] son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, with all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem," 
Jeremiah27:21 Yes, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels which [still] remain in the house of the Lord, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem:" 
Jeremiah27:22 They will be carried to Babylon and there will they be until the day that I visit them [with My favor], says the Lord. Then I will bring them back and restore them to this place." 
Jeremiah28:1 IN THAT same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year and the fifth month, Hananiah son of Azzur, the [false] prophet, who was from Gibeon [one of the priests' cities], said [falsely] to me in the house of the Lord in the presence of the priests and all the people:" 
Jeremiah28:2 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah28:3 Within two [full] years will I bring back into this place all the vessels of the Lord's house that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried to Babylon. 
Jeremiah28:4 And I will also bring back to this place Jeconiah [also called Coniah and Jehoiachin] son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, with all the exiles from Judah who went to Babylon, says the Lord, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon. [Jer. 22:10, 24-27; 52:34]" 
Jeremiah28:5 Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke to the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests and all the people who stood in the house of the Lord. 
Jeremiah28:6 The prophet Jeremiah said, Amen! May the Lord do so; may the Lord perform your words which you have prophesied to bring back to this place from Babylon the vessels of the Lord's house and all who were carried away captive." 
Jeremiah28:7 Nevertheless, listen now to and hear this word which I speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people:" 
Jeremiah28:8 The prophets who were before me and before you from of old prophesied against many countries and against great kingdoms, of war, of evil, and of pestilence." 
Jeremiah28:9 But as for the prophet who [on the contrary] prophesies of peace, when that prophet's word comes to pass, [only] then will it be known that the Lord has truly sent him." 
Jeremiah28:10 Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke bar off the prophet Jeremiah's neck and smashed it. 
Jeremiah28:11 And Hananiah said in the presence of all the people, Thus says the Lord: Even so will I break the yoke bars of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the neck of all the nations within the space of two [full] years. But the prophet Jeremiah went his way." 
Jeremiah28:12 The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet [some time] after Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke bar from the neck of the prophet Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah28:13 Go, tell Hananiah, Thus says the Lord: You have broken yoke bars of wood, but you have made in their stead bars of iron." 
Jeremiah28:14 For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put upon the neck of all these nations the iron yoke of servitude of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and they shall serve him. For I have given him even the beasts of the field. [Jer. 27:6-7.]" 
Jeremiah28:15 Then said the prophet Jeremiah to Hananiah the prophet, Listen now, Hananiah, The Lord has not sent you, but you have made this people trust in a lie." 
Jeremiah28:16 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, I will cast you from the face of the earth. This year you will die, because you have uttered and taught rebellion against the Lord." 
Jeremiah28:17 So Hananiah the prophet died [two months later], the same year, in the seventh month." 
Jeremiah29:1 NOW THESE are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the rest of the elders in exile and to the priests, the prophets, and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:2 This was after King Jeconiah [also called Coniah and Jehoiachin] and the queen mother, the eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen and the smiths had departed from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah29:3 [The letter was sent] by the hand of Elasah son of Shaphan and Gemariah son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. It said:" 
Jeremiah29:4 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the captives whom I have caused to be carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon:" 
Jeremiah29:5 Build yourselves houses and dwell in them; plant gardens and eat the fruit of them. 
Jeremiah29:6 Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not be diminished." 
Jeremiah29:7 And seek (inquire for, require, and request) the peace and welfare of the city to which I have caused you to be carried away captive; and pray to the Lord for it, for in the welfare of [the city in which you live] you will have welfare." 
Jeremiah29:8 For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Let not your [false] prophets and your diviners who are in your midst deceive you; pay no attention and attach no significance to your dreams which you dream or to theirs," 
Jeremiah29:9 For they prophesy falsely to you in My name. I have not sent them, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah29:10 For thus says the Lord, When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you and keep My good promise to you, causing you to return to this place." 
Jeremiah29:11 For I know the thoughts and plans that I have for you, says the Lord, thoughts and plans for welfare and peace and not for evil, to give you hope in your final outcome." 
Jeremiah29:12 Then you will call upon Me, and you will come and pray to Me, and I will hear and heed you." 
Jeremiah29:13 Then you will seek Me, inquire for, and require Me [as a vital necessity] and find Me when you search for Me with all your heart. [Deut. 4:29-30.]" 
Jeremiah29:14 I will be found by you, says the Lord, and I will release you from captivity and gather you from all the nations and all the places to which I have driven you, says the Lord, and I will bring you back to the place from which I caused you to be carried away captive." 
Jeremiah29:15 [But as for those still in Jerusalem] because you have said, The Lord has raised up prophets for us in Babylon," 
Jeremiah29:16 Thus says the Lord concerning the king who sits upon the throne of David and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, your brethren who did not go forth with you into captivity," 
Jeremiah29:17 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I am sending on them the sword, famine, and pestilence, and I will make them like vile figs which are so bad they cannot be eaten." 
Jeremiah29:18 And I will pursue them with the sword, famine, and pestilence and will give them up to be tossed to and fro and to be a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, an astonishment, and a terror, a hissing and a reproach among all the nations to which I have driven them," 
Jeremiah29:19 Because they have not listened to and heeded My words, says the Lord, which I sent to them persistently by My servants the prophets; but you [exiles] would not listen [either], says the Lord. [Ezek. 2:5, 7.]" 
Jeremiah29:20 Hear therefore the word of the Lord, all you exiles whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:21 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab son of Kolaiah and concerning Zedekiah son of Maaseiah, who are prophesying lies to you in My name: Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he will slay them [those false prophets whom you say I have raised up for you in Babylon] before your eyes! [Jer. 29:15.]" 
Jeremiah29:22 And because of them, this curse shall be taken up and used by all from Judah who are in captivity in Babylon: The Lord make you like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire," 
Jeremiah29:23 Because they have committed folly in Israel and have committed adultery with their neighbors' wives and have spoken words in My name falsely, which I had not commanded them. I am the One Who knows and I am witness, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah29:24 Also you shall say this concerning and to Shemaiah of Nehelam [among the exiles in Babylon]: 
Jeremiah29:25 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Because you have sent letters in your [own] name to all the people who are in Jerusalem and to Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest and to all the priests, saying," 
Jeremiah29:25 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Because you have sent letters in your [own] name to all the people who are in Jerusalem and to Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest and to all the priests, saying," 
Jeremiah29:26 The Lord has made you [Zephaniah] priest instead of Jehoiada the [deputy] priest, that you should have oversight in the house of the Lord over every madman who makes himself a prophet, that you should put him in the stocks and collar." 
Jeremiah29:26 The Lord has made you [Zephaniah] priest instead of Jehoiada the [deputy] priest, that you should have oversight in the house of the Lord over every madman who makes himself a prophet, that you should put him in the stocks and collar." 
Jeremiah29:27 Now therefore [continued the letter from Shemaiah in Babylon to Zephaniah in Jerusalem], why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a prophet to you?" 
Jeremiah29:27 Now therefore [continued the letter from Shemaiah in Babylon to Zephaniah in Jerusalem], why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a prophet to you?" 
Jeremiah29:28 For he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, [This captivity of yours] is to be long; build houses and dwell in them; plant gardens and eat the fruit of them." 
Jeremiah29:29 And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet. 
Jeremiah29:29 And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet. 
Jeremiah29:30 Then came the word of the Lord to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah29:31 Send [this message] to all those in captivity, saying, Thus says the Lord concerning Shemaiah of Nehelam: Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, though I did not send him, and has caused you to trust in a lie," 
Jeremiah29:32 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, I will punish Shemaiah of Nehelam and his offspring. He will not have anyone [born] to dwell among this people, nor will he see the good that I will do to My people, says the Lord, because he has spoken and taught rebellion against the Lord." 
Jeremiah30:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: 
Jeremiah30:2 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Write all the words that I have spoken to you in a book." 
Jeremiah30:3 For, note well, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will release from captivity My people Israel and Judah, says the Lord, and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they will possess it." 
Jeremiah30:4 And these are the words the Lord spoke concerning Israel and Judah: 
Jeremiah30:5 Thus says the Lord: We have heard a voice of trembling and panic,of terror, and not peace." 
Jeremiah30:6 Ask now and see whether a man can give birth to a child? Why then do I see every man with his hands on his loins like a woman in labor? Why are all faces turned pale? 
Jeremiah30:7 Alas! for that day will be great, so that none will be like it; it will be the time of Jacob's [unequaled] trouble, but he will be saved out of it. [Matt. 24:29, 30; Rev. 7:14.]" 
Jeremiah30:8 For it will come to pass in that day, says the Lord of hosts, that I will break [the oppressor's] yoke from your neck, and I will burst your bonds; and strangers will no more make slaves of [the people of Israel]." 
Jeremiah30:9 But they will serve the Lord their God and David's [descendant] their King, Whom I will raise up for them. [Jer. 23:5.]" 
Jeremiah30:10 Therefore fear not, O My servant Jacob, says the Lord, nor be dismayed or cast down, O Israel; for behold, I will save you out of a distant land [of exile] and your posterity from the land of their captivity. Jacob will return and will be quiet and at ease, and none will make him afraid or cause him to be terrorized and to tremble." 
Jeremiah30:11 For I am with you, says the Lord, to save you; for I will make a full and complete end of all the nations to which I have scattered you, but I will not make a full and complete end of you. But I will correct you in measure and with judgment and will in no sense hold you guiltless or leave you unpunished." 
Jeremiah30:12 For thus says the Lord: Your hurt is incurable and your wound is grievous. 
Jeremiah30:13 There is none to plead your cause; for [the pressing together of] your wound you have no healing [device], no binding plaster." 
Jeremiah30:14 All your lovers (allies) have forgotten you; they neither seek, inquire of, or require you. For I have hurt you with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel and merciless foe, because of the greatness of your perversity and guilt, because your sins are glaring and innumerable." 
Jeremiah30:15 Why do you cry out because of your hurt [the natural result of your sins]? Your pain is deadly (incurable). Because of the greatness of your perversity and guilt, because your sins are glaring and innumerable, I have done these things to you." 
Jeremiah30:16 Therefore all who devour you will be devoured; and all your adversaries, every one of them, will go into captivity. And they who despoil you will become a spoil, and all who prey upon you will I give for a prey." 
Jeremiah30:17 For I will restore health to you, and I will heal your wounds, says the Lord, because they have called you an outcast, saying, This is Zion, whom no one seeks after and for whom no one cares!" 
Jeremiah30:18 Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will release from captivity the tents of Jacob and have mercy on his dwelling places; the city will be rebuilt on its own [old] moundlike site, and the palace will be dwelt in after its former fashion." 
Jeremiah30:19 Out of them [city and palace] will come songs of thanksgiving and the voices of those who make merry. And I will multiply them, and they will not be few; I will also glorify them, and they will not be small." 
Jeremiah30:20 Their children too shall be as in former times, and their congregation shall be established before Me, and I will punish all who oppress them." 
Jeremiah30:21 And their prince will be one of them, and their ruler will come from the midst of them. I will cause him to draw near and he will approach Me, for who is he who would have the boldness and would dare [on his own initiative] to approach Me? says the Lord." 
Jeremiah30:22 Then you will be My people, and I will be your God. [Jer. 7:23.]" 
Jeremiah30:23 Behold, the tempest of the Lord has gone forth with wrath, a sweeping and gathering tempest; it shall whirl and burst upon the heads of the wicked." 
Jeremiah30:24 The fierce anger and indignation of the Lord shall not turn back until He has executed and accomplished the thoughts and intents of His mind and heart. In the latter days you shall understand this. 
Jeremiah31:1 AT THAT time, says the Lord, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be My people." 
Jeremiah31:2 Thus says the Lord: The people who survived the sword found favor in the wilderness [place of exile],when Israel sought to find rest. 
Jeremiah31:3 The Lord appeared from of old to me [Israel], saying, Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love; therefore with loving-kindness have I drawn you and continued My faithfulness to you. [Deut. 7:8.]" 
Jeremiah31:4 Again I will build you and you will be built, O Virgin Israel! You will again be adorned with your timbrels [small one-headed drums] and go forth in the dancing [chorus] of those who make merry. [Isa. 37:22; Jer. 18:13.]" 
Jeremiah31:5 Again you shall plant vineyards upon the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant and make the fruit common and enjoy it [undisturbed]. 
Jeremiah31:6 For there shall be a day when the watchmen on the hills of Ephraim shall cry out, Arise, and let us go up to Zion, to the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah31:7 For thus says the Lord: Sing aloud with gladness for Jacob, and shout for the head of the nations [on account of the chosen people, Israel]. Proclaim, praise, and say, The Lord has saved His people, the remnant of Israel!" 
Jeremiah31:8 Behold, I will bring them from the north country and gather them from the uttermost parts of the earth, and among them will be the blind and the lame, the woman with child and she who labors in childbirth together; a great company, they will return here to Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah31:9 They will come with weeping [in penitence and for joy], pouring out prayers [for the future]. I will lead them back; I will cause them to walk by streams of water and bring them in a straight way in which they will not stumble, for I am a Father to Israel, and Ephraim [Israel] is My firstborn." 
Jeremiah31:10 Hear the word of the Lord, O you nations, and declare it in the isles and coastlands far away, and say, He Who scattered Israel will gather him and will keep him as a shepherd keeps his flock." 
Jeremiah31:11 For the Lord has ransomed Jacob and has redeemed him from the hand of him who was too strong for him. 
Jeremiah31:12 They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion and shall flow together and be radiant with joy over the goodness of the Lord,for the corn, for the juice [of the grape], for the oil, and for the young of the flock and the herd. And their life shall be like a watered garden, and they shall not sorrow or languish any more at all." 
Jeremiah31:13 Then will the maidens rejoice in the dance, and the young men and old together. For I will turn their mourning into joy and will comfort them and make them rejoice after their sorrow." 
Jeremiah31:14 I will satisfy fully the life of the priests with abundance [of offerings shared with them], and My people will be satisfied with My goodness, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:15 Thus says the Lord: A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no more. [Matt. 2:18.]" 
Jeremiah31:16 Thus says the Lord: Restrain your voice from weeping and your eyes from tears, for your work shall be rewarded, says the Lord; and [your children] shall return from the enemy's land." 
Jeremiah31:17 And there is hope for your future, says the Lord; your children shall come back to their own country." 
Jeremiah31:18 I have surely heard Ephraim [Israel] moaning thus: You have chastised me, and I was chastised, like a bullock unaccustomed to the yoke; bring me back, that I may be restored, for You are the Lord my God." 
Jeremiah31:19 Surely after I [Ephraim] was turned [from You], I repented; and after I was instructed, I penitently smote my thigh. I was ashamed, yes, even confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth [as a nation]." 
Jeremiah31:20 Is Ephraim My dear son? Is he a darling child and beloved? For as often as I speak against him, I do [earnestly] remember him still. Therefore My affection is stirred and My heart yearns for him; I will surely have mercy, pity, and loving-kindness for him, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:21 Set up for yourselves highway markers [back to Canaan], make for yourselves guideposts; turn your thoughts and attention to the way by which you went [into exile]. Retrace your steps, O Virgin Israel, return to these your cities." 
Jeremiah31:22 How long will you waver and hesitate [to return], O you backsliding daughter? For the Lord has created a new thing in the land [of Israel]: a female shall compass (woo, win, and protect) a man." 
Jeremiah31:23 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Once more they shall use these words in the land of Judah and in her cities when I release them from exile: The Lord bless you, O habitation of justice and righteousness, O holy mountain!" 
Jeremiah31:24 And [the people of] Judah and all its cities shall dwell there together,[nomad] farmers and those who wander about with their flocks. 
Jeremiah31:25 For I will [fully] satisfy the weary soul, and I will replenish every languishing and sorrowful person." 
Jeremiah31:26 Thereupon I [Jeremiah] awoke and looked, and my [trancelike] sleep was sweet [in the assurance it gave] to me." 
Jeremiah31:27 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed (offspring) of man and of beast." 
Jeremiah31:28 And it will be that as I have watched over them to pluck up and to break down, and to overthrow, destroy, and afflict [with evil], so will I watch over them to build and to plant [with good], says the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:29 In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. [Ezek. 18:2.]" 
Jeremiah31:30 But everyone shall die for his own iniquity [only]; every man who eats sour grapes,his [own] teeth shall be set on edge. 
Jeremiah31:31 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, [Luke 22:20; I Cor. 11:25.]" 
Jeremiah31:32 Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, My covenant which they broke, although I was their Husband, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:33 But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel: After those days, says the Lord, I will put My law within them, and on their hearts will I write it; and I will be their God, and they will be My people." 
Jeremiah31:34 And they will no more teach each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know Me [recognize, understand, and be acquainted with Me], from the least of them to the greatest, says the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will [seriously] remember their sin no more. [Heb. 8:8-12; 10:16, 17.]" 
Jeremiah31:35 Thus says the Lord, Who gives the sun for a light by day and the fixed order of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, Who stirs up the sea's roaring billows or stills the waves when they roar,the Lord of hosts is His name:" 
Jeremiah31:36 If these ordinances [of fixed order] depart from before Me, says the Lord, then the posterity of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before Me throughout the ages." 
Jeremiah31:37 Thus says the Lord: If the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:38 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when the city [of Jerusalem] shall be built [again] for the Lord from the Tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate." 
Jeremiah31:39 And the measuring line shall go out farther straight onward to the hill Gareb and shall then turn to Goah [exact location unknown]. 
Jeremiah31:40 And the whole valley [Hinnom] of the dead bodies and [the hill] of the ashes [long dumped there from the temple sacrifices], and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the corner of the Horse Gate toward the east, shall be holy to the Lord. It [the city] shall not be plucked up or overthrown any more to the end of the age. [Zech. 14:10-11.]" 
Jeremiah32:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar." 
Jeremiah32:2 For the king of Babylon's army was then besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the guard, which was in the house of the king of Judah." 
Jeremiah32:3 For Zedekiah king of Judah had locked him up, saying, Why do you prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it;" 
Jeremiah32:4 And Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hands of the Chaldeans but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him face to face and see him eye to eye;" 
Jeremiah32:5 And he shall lead Zedekiah to Babylon, and there shall he be until I visit him [for evil], says the Lord; and though you fight against the Chaldeans, you shall not prosper [why do you thus prophesy]? [Jer. 21:3-7; 34:2-5; 37:17; 52:7-14.]" 
Jeremiah32:6 And Jeremiah said, The word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah32:7 Behold, Hanamel son of Shallum your uncle shall come to you and say, Buy my field that is in Anathoth, for the right of redemption is yours to buy it." 
Jeremiah32:8 So Hanamel my uncle's son came to me in the court of the guard in accordance with the word of the Lord, and he said to me, I pray you, buy my field that is in Anathoth, which is in the land of Benjamin, for the right of inheritance is yours and the redemption is yours; buy it for yourself. Then I knew that this was the word of the Lord." 
Jeremiah32:9 And I bought the field that was in Anathoth from Hanamel my uncle's son and weighed out for him the money,seventeen shekels of silver. 
Jeremiah32:10 And I signed the deed and sealed it, called witnesses, and weighed out for him the money on the scales." 
Jeremiah32:11 So I took the deed of the purchase,both that which was sealed, containing the terms and conditions, and the copy which was unsealed," 
Jeremiah32:12 And I gave the purchase deed to Baruch son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, in the sight of Hanamel my uncle's son and the witnesses who signed the purchase deed, in the presence of all the Jews who were sitting in the court of the guard." 
Jeremiah32:13 And I charged Baruch before them, saying," 
Jeremiah32:14 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Take these deeds, both this purchase deed which is sealed and this unsealed deed, and put them in an earthen vessel, that they may last a long time." 
Jeremiah32:15 For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall be purchased yet again in this land." 
Jeremiah32:16 Now when I had delivered the purchase deed to Baruch son of Neriah, I prayed to the Lord, saying:" 
Jeremiah32:17 Alas, Lord God! Behold, You have made the heavens and the earth by Your great power and by Your outstretched arm! There is nothing too hard or too wonderful for You," 
Jeremiah32:18 You Who show loving-kindness to thousands but recompense the iniquity of the fathers into the bosoms of their children after them. The great, the mighty God; the Lord of hosts is His name," 
Jeremiah32:19 Great [are You] in counsel and mighty in deeds, Whose eyes are open to all the ways of the sons of men, to reward or repay each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings," 
Jeremiah32:20 Who wrought signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, and even to this day [continues to do so], both in Israel and among other men, and made for Yourself a name, as at this day." 
Jeremiah32:21 And You brought forth Your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs and wonders, with a strong hand and outstretched arm and with great terror;" 
Jeremiah32:22 And You gave them this land which You swore to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey;" 
Jeremiah32:23 And they entered and took possession of it, but they obeyed not Your voice, nor walked in Your law; they have done nothing of all that You commanded them to do. Therefore You have caused all this evil to come upon them." 
Jeremiah32:24 See the siege mounds [of earth which the foe has heaped against the walls]; they have come up to the city to take it. And the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans who fight against it, because [the people are overcome] by the sword and the famine and the pestilence. What You have spoken has come to pass, and behold, You see it." 
Jeremiah32:25 Yet, O Lord God, You said to me, Buy the field with money and get witnesses, even though the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah32:26 Then came the word of the Lord to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah32:27 Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh; is there anything too hard for Me?" 
Jeremiah32:28 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, I am giving this city into the hands of the Chaldeans and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it;" 
Jeremiah32:29 And the Chaldeans who are fighting against this city shall come in and set this city on fire and burn it, along with the houses on whose roofs incense has been offered to Baal and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods to provoke Me to anger. [Jer. 19:13.]" 
Jeremiah32:30 For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done only evil before Me from their youth; for the children of Israel have only provoked Me to anger with the work of their hands [the idols], says the Lord." 
Jeremiah32:31 For this city has been to Me a [such a] provocation of My anger and My wrath from the day that they [finished] building it [in the time of Solomon, who was the first Israelite king who turned to idolatry] even to this day that I must remove it from before My face,[I Kings 11:1-13.]" 
Jeremiah32:32 Because of all the evil of the children of Israel and of the children of Judah which they have done to provoke Me to anger,they, their kings, their princes, their priests, their prophets, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah32:33 And they have turned their backs to Me and not their faces; though I taught them persistently, yet they would not listen and receive instruction." 
Jeremiah32:34 But they set their abominations [of idol worship] in the house which is called by My Name to defile it. 
Jeremiah32:35 And they built the high places [for worship] of Baal in the Valley of Ben-hinnom [son of Hinnom] to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire [in worship also of and] to Molech,which I did not command them, nor did it come into My mind or heart that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin. [Jer. 7:30-31.]" 
Jeremiah32:36 And now therefore thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say, It shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword and by famine and by pestilence:" 
Jeremiah32:37 Behold, I will gather them out of all countries to which I drove them in My anger and in My wrath and in great indignation; I will bring them again to this place, and I will make them dwell safely." 
Jeremiah32:38 And they will be My people, and I will be their God." 
Jeremiah32:39 And I will give them one heart and one way, that they may [reverently] fear Me forever for the good of themselves and of their children after them." 
Jeremiah32:40 And I will make an everlasting covenant with them: I will not turn away from following them to do them good, and I will put My [reverential] fear in their hearts, so that they will not depart from Me. [Jer. 31:31-34.]" 
Jeremiah32:41 Yes, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly and in truth with My whole heart and with My whole being." 
Jeremiah32:42 For thus says the Lord: As I have brought all this great evil upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the good that I have promised them." 
Jeremiah32:43 And fields shall be bought in this land of which you say, It is desolate, without man or beast; it is given into the hands of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah32:44 Men shall buy fields for money and shall sign deeds, seal them, and call witnesses in the land of Benjamin, in the places around Jerusalem, in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the South (the Negeb), for I will cause them to be released from their exile, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah33:1 MOREOVER, THE word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was still shut up in the court of the guard, saying," 
Jeremiah33:2 Thus says the Lord Who made [the earth], the Lord Who formed it to establish it,the Lord is His name:" 
Jeremiah33:3 Call to Me and I will answer you and show you great and mighty things, fenced in and hidden, which you do not know (do not distinguish and recognize, have knowledge of and understand)." 
Jeremiah33:4 For thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the kings of Judah which are torn down to make a defense against the siege mounds and before the sword: [Isa. 22:10; Jer. 6:6.]" 
Jeremiah33:5 They [the besieged Jews] are coming in to fight against the Chaldeans, and they [the houses] will be filled with the dead bodies of men whom I shall slay in My anger and My wrath; for I have hidden My face [in indignation] from this city because of all their wickedness." 
Jeremiah33:6 Behold, [in the future restored Jerusalem] I will lay upon it health and healing, and I will cure them and will reveal to them the abundance of peace (prosperity, security, stability) and truth." 
Jeremiah33:7 And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to be reversed and will rebuild them as they were at first. 
Jeremiah33:8 And I will cleanse them from all the guilt and iniquity by which they have sinned against Me, and I will forgive all their guilt and iniquities by which they have sinned and rebelled against Me." 
Jeremiah33:9 And [Jerusalem] shall be to Me a name of joy, a praise and a glory before all the nations of the earth that hear of all the good I do for it, and they shall fear and tremble because of all the good and all the peace, prosperity, security, and stability I provide for it." 
Jeremiah33:10 Thus says the Lord: Yet again there shall be heard in this place of which you say, It is a desolate waste, without man and without beast,even in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man and without inhabitant and without beast," 
Jeremiah33:11 [There shall be heard again] the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voices of those who sing as they bring sacrifices of thanksgiving into the house of the Lord, Give praise and thanks to the Lord of hosts, for the Lord is good; for His mercy and kindness and steadfast love endure forever! For I will cause the captivity of the land to be reversed and return to be as it was at first, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah33:12 Thus says the Lord of hosts: In this place which is desolate, without man and without beast, and in all its cities, there shall again be dwellings and pastures of shepherds resting their flocks." 
Jeremiah33:13 In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the lowland, in the cities of the South (the Negeb), in the land of Benjamin, in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah shall flocks pass again under the hands of him who counts them, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah33:14 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will fulfill the good promise I have made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah." 
Jeremiah33:15 In those days and at that time will I cause a righteous Branch [the Messiah] to grow up to David; and He shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. [Isa. 4:2; Jer. 23:5; Zech. 3:8; 6:12.] 
Jeremiah33:16 In those days Judah shall be saved and Jerusalem shall dwell safely. And this is the name by which it will be called, The Lord is Our Righteousness (our Rightness, our Justice)." 
Jeremiah33:17 For thus says the Lord: David shall never fail [to have] a man [descendant] to sit on the throne of the house of Israel," 
Jeremiah33:18 Nor shall the Levitical priests fail [to have] a man [descendant] to offer burnt offerings before Me and to burn cereal offerings and to make sacrifices continually (all day long). 
Jeremiah33:19 And the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah33:20 Thus says the Lord: If you can break My covenant with the day, and My covenant with the night, so that there should not be day and night in their season," 
Jeremiah33:21 Then can also My covenant be broken with David My servant, so that he shall not have a son to reign upon his throne, and [My league be broken also] with the Levitical priests, My ministers." 
Jeremiah33:22 As the host of [the stars of] the heavens cannot be numbered nor the sand of the sea be measured, so will I multiply the offspring of David My servant and the Levites who minister to Me." 
Jeremiah33:23 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah33:24 Have you not noticed that these people [the Jews] are saying, The Lord has cast off the two families [Israel and Judah] which He chose? Thus My people have despised [themselves in relation to God as His covenant people], so that they are no more a nation in their [own] sight." 
Jeremiah33:25 Thus says the Lord: If My covenant with day and night does not stand, and if I have not appointed the ordinances of the heavens and the earth [the whole order of nature]," 
Jeremiah33:26 Then will I also cast away the descendants of Jacob and David My servant and will not choose one of his offspring to be ruler over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will cause their captivity to be reversed, and I will have mercy, kindness, and steadfast love on and for them. [Gen. 49:10.]" 
Jeremiah34:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army and all the kingdoms of the earth under his dominion and all the people were fighting against Jerusalem and all of its cities: 
Jeremiah34:2 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah and tell him, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire." 
Jeremiah34:3 And you will not escape out of his hand but will surely be taken and delivered into his hand; you will see the king of Babylon eye to eye, and he will speak with you face to face; and you will go to Babylon." 
Jeremiah34:4 Yet hear the word of the Lord, O Zedekiah king of Judah! Thus says the Lord concerning you: You shall not die by the sword;" 
Jeremiah34:5 But you shall die in peace. And as with the burnings of [spices and perfumes on wood that were granted as suitable for and in honor of] your fathers, the former kings who were before you, so shall a burning be made for you; and [people] shall lament for you, saying, Alas, lord! For I have spoken the word, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah34:6 Then Jeremiah the prophet spoke all these words to Zedekiah king of Judah, in Jerusalem," 
Jeremiah34:7 When the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the cities of Judah that were left, against Lachish and Azekah, for these were the only fortified cities remaining of the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah34:8 [This is] the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord after King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people who were at Jerusalem to proclaim liberty to them: 
Jeremiah34:9 Every man should let his Hebrew slaves, male and female, go free, so that no one should make a slave of a Jew, his brother." 
Jeremiah34:10 And all the princes and all the people obeyed, who had entered into the covenant that everyone would let his manservant and his maidservant go free, so that none should make bondmen of them any more; they obeyed, and let them go." 
Jeremiah34:11 But afterward they turned around and caused the servants and the handmaids whom they had let go free to return [to their former masters] and brought them into subjection for servants and for handmaids. 
Jeremiah34:12 Therefore the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying," 
Jeremiah34:13 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: I made a covenant with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, saying," 
Jeremiah34:14 At the end of seven years you shall let every man his brother who is a Hebrew go free who has sold himself or has been sold to you and has served you six years; but your fathers did not listen to and obey Me or incline their ear [submitting and consenting to Me]. [Deut. 15:12.] 
Jeremiah34:15 And you recently turned around and repented, doing what was right in My sight by proclaiming liberty each one to his neighbor [who was his bond servant]; and you made a covenant or pledge before Me in the house which is called by My Name." 
Jeremiah34:16 But then you turned around and defiled My name; each of you caused to return to you your servants, male and female, whom you had set free as they might desire; and you brought them into subjection again to be your slaves." 
Jeremiah34:17 Therefore thus says the Lord: You have not listened to Me and obeyed Me in proclaiming liberty each one to his brother and neighbor. Behold, I proclaim to you liberty,to the sword, to pestilence, and to famine, says the Lord; and I will make you to be tossed to and fro and to be a horror among all the kingdoms of the earth!" 
Jeremiah34:18 And the men who have transgressed My covenant, who have not kept the terms of the covenant or solemn pledge which they had made before Me, I will make them [like] the [sacrificial] calf which they cut in two and then passed between its separated parts [solemnizing their pledge to Me],I will make those men the calf! [Gen. 15:9, 10, 17.]" 
Jeremiah34:19 The princes of Judah, the princes of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the land who passed between the parts of the calf," 
Jeremiah34:20 I will give them into the hands of their enemies and into the hands of those who seek their life. And their dead bodies will be food for the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the earth. 
Jeremiah34:21 And Zedekiah king of Judah and his princes will I give into the hands of their enemies and into the hands of those who seek their life, and into the hand of the king of Babylon's army which has withdrawn from you." 
Jeremiah34:22 Behold, I will command, says the Lord, and cause them [the Chaldeans] to return to this city; and they shall fight against it and take it and burn it with fire. I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah35:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord in the days of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah: 
Jeremiah35:2 Go to the house of the Rechabites and speak to them and bring them into the house of the Lord, into one of the chambers; then give them [who are pledged to drink no wine] some wine to drink." 
Jeremiah35:3 So I took Jaazaniah son of Jeremiah, the son of Habazziniah, and his brothers and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites," 
Jeremiah35:4 And I brought them into the house of the Lord, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan son of Igdaliah the man of God, which was by the chamber of the princes, above the chamber of Maaseiah son of Shallum the keeper of the door." 
Jeremiah35:5 And I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pitchers full of wine, and cups, and I said to them, Drink wine." 
Jeremiah35:6 But they said, We will drink no wine, for Jonadab son of Rechab, our father, commanded us: You shall not drink wine, neither you nor your sons, forever." 
Jeremiah35:7 Neither shall you build a house or sow seed or plant a vineyard or have them; but you shall dwell all your days in tents, that you may live many days in the land where you are temporary residents." 
Jeremiah35:8 And we have obeyed the voice of Jonadab son of Rechab, our father, in all that he charged us, to drink no wine all our days,we, our wives, our sons, and our daughters," 
Jeremiah35:9 And not to build ourselves houses to live in; nor do we have vineyard or field or seed. 
Jeremiah35:10 But we have dwelt in tents and have obeyed and done according to all that Jonadab our ancestor commanded us. 
Jeremiah35:11 But when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came up against the land, we said, Come and let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans and the army of the Syrians. So we are living in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah35:12 Then came the word of the Lord to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah35:13 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Go and say to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction and listen to My words and obey them? says the Lord." 
Jeremiah35:14 The command which Jonadab son of Rechab gave to his sons not to drink wine, has been carried out and established [as a custom for more than two hundred years]. To this day they drink no wine, but they have obeyed their father's command. But I, even I, have persistently spoken to you, but you have not listened to and obeyed Me." 
Jeremiah35:15 I have sent also to you all My servants the prophets earnestly and persistently, saying, Return now every man from his evil way and amend your doings and go not after other gods to serve them; and then you shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers. But you did not submit and consent to Me or listen to and obey Me." 
Jeremiah35:16 Since the sons of Jonadab son of Rechab have fulfilled and established the command of their father which he commanded them, but these people have not listened to and obeyed Me," 
Jeremiah35:17 Therefore thus says the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing upon Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them, because I have spoken to them, but they have not listened, and I have called to them, but they have not answered." 
Jeremiah35:18 And Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Because you have obeyed the command of Jonadab your father and have kept all his precepts and have done according to all that he commanded you," 
Jeremiah35:19 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Jonadab son of Rechab shall never fail [to have] a man [descendant] to stand before Me." 
Jeremiah36:1 IN THE fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the Lord:" 
Jeremiah36:2 Take a scroll [of parchment] for a book and write on it all the words I have spoken to you against Israel and Judah and all the nations from the day I spoke to you in the days of [King] Josiah until this day. 
Jeremiah36:3 It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do to them, so that each one may turn from his evil way, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin. [Jer. 18:7-10; 26:3.]" 
Jeremiah36:4 Then Jeremiah called Baruch son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote upon the scroll of the book all the words which Jeremiah dictated, [words] that the Lord had spoken to him." 
Jeremiah36:5 And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am [in hiding, virtually] restrained and shut up; I cannot go into the house of the Lord." 
Jeremiah36:6 Therefore you go, and on a day of fasting, in the hearing of all the people in the Lord's house, you shall read the words of the Lord which you have written on the scroll at my dictation. Also you shall read them in the hearing of all who come out of the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah36:7 It may be that they will make their supplication [for mercy] before the Lord, and each one will turn back from his evil way, for great is the anger and the wrath that the Lord has pronounced against this people." 
Jeremiah36:8 And Baruch son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading from [Jeremiah's] book the words of the Lord in the Lord's house." 
Jeremiah36:9 And in the fifth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, a fast was proclaimed before the Lord for all the people in Jerusalem and all the people who came to Jerusalem from the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah36:10 Then Baruch read in the hearing of all the people the words of Jeremiah from the scroll of the book in the house of the Lord, in the chamber of Gemariah son of Shaphan the scribe, in the upper court at the entry of the New Gate of the Lord's house." 
Jeremiah36:11 When Micaiah son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of the Lord," 
Jeremiah36:12 He went down to the king's house into the scribe's chamber, and behold, all the princes were sitting there: Elishama the scribe, Delaiah son of Shemaiah, Elnathan son of Achbor, Gemariah son of Shaphan, Zedekiah son of Hananiah, and all the [other] princes." 
Jeremiah36:13 Then Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard when Baruch read the book in the hearing of the people. 
Jeremiah36:14 Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, Take in your hand the scroll from which you have read in the hearing of the people and come [to us]. So Baruch son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and came to them." 
Jeremiah36:15 And they said to him, Sit down now and read it in our hearing. So Baruch read it in their hearing." 
Jeremiah36:16 Now when they had heard all the words, they turned one to another in fear and said to Baruch, We must surely tell the king of all these words." 
Jeremiah36:17 And they asked Baruch, Tell us now, how did you write all these words? At [Jeremiah's] dictation?" 
Jeremiah36:18 Then Baruch answered them, He dictated all these words to me, and I wrote them with ink in the book." 
Jeremiah36:19 Then the princes said to Baruch, Go and hide, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are." 
Jeremiah36:20 Then they went into the court to the king, but they [first] put the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe; then they reported all the words to the king." 
Jeremiah36:21 So the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it out of the chamber of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read it in the hearing of the king and of all the princes who stood beside the king." 
Jeremiah36:22 Now it was the ninth month, and the king was sitting in the winter house, and a fire was burning there before him in the brazier." 
Jeremiah36:23 And [each time] when Jehudi had read three or four columns [of the scroll], he [King Jehoiakim] would cut them off with a penknife and cast them into the fire that was in the brazier, until the entire scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier." 
Jeremiah36:24 Yet they were not afraid, nor did they rend their garments,neither the king, nor any of his servants who heard all these words." 
Jeremiah36:25 Even though Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah tried to persuade the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them." 
Jeremiah36:26 And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king's son and Seraiah son of Azriel and Shelemiah son of Abdeel to seize Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet, but the Lord hid them." 
Jeremiah36:27 Now the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the scroll with the words which Baruch wrote at the dictation of Jeremiah, [and the Lord] said:" 
Jeremiah36:28 Take another scroll and write on it all the former words that were on the first scroll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah burned." 
Jeremiah36:29 And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah you shall say, Thus says the Lord: You have burned this scroll, saying, Why have you written on it that the king of Babylon shall surely come and destroy this land and shall cut off man and beast from it?" 
Jeremiah36:30 Therefore thus says the Lord concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He shall have no [heir] to sit upon the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and to the frost by night." 
Jeremiah36:31 And I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity; and I will bring upon them and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the men of Judah all the evil that I have pronounced against them,but they would not hear. 
Jeremiah36:32 Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote on it at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire; and besides them many similar words were added." 
Jeremiah37:1 AND ZEDEKIAH son of Josiah, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah, reigned instead of Coniah [also called Jeconiah and Jehoiachin] son of Jehoiakim." 
Jeremiah37:2 But neither he nor his servants nor the people of the land listened to and obeyed the words of the Lord which He spoke through the prophet Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah37:3 Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal son of Shelemiah with Zephaniah son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, Pray now to the Lord our God for us." 
Jeremiah37:3 Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal son of Shelemiah with Zephaniah son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, Pray now to the Lord our God for us." 
Jeremiah37:4 Now Jeremiah was coming in and going out among the people, for they had not [yet] put him in prison." 
Jeremiah37:5 And Pharaoh's army had come forth out of Egypt, and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard the news about them, they withdrew from Jerusalem and departed." 
Jeremiah37:6 Then came the word of the Lord to the prophet Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah37:7 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Thus shall you say to the king of Judah, who sent you to Me to inquire of Me: Behold, Pharaoh's army, which has come forth to help you, will return to Egypt, to their own land." 
Jeremiah37:8 And the Chaldeans shall come again and fight against this city, and they shall take it and burn it with fire." 
Jeremiah37:9 Thus says the Lord: Do not deceive yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans will surely stay away from us,for they will not stay away." 
Jeremiah37:10 For though you should defeat the whole army of the Chaldeans who fight against you, and there remained only the wounded and men stricken through among them, every man confined to his tent, yet they would rise up and burn this city with fire." 
Jeremiah37:11 And when the army of the Chaldeans had departed from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh's approaching army," 
Jeremiah37:12 Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin [to slip away during the brief lull in the Chaldean invasion] to receive [the title to] his portion [of land, which the Lord had promised would eventually be valuable] there among the people." 
Jeremiah37:13 And when he was at the Gate of Benjamin, a sentry was [on guard] there, whose name was Irijah son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he seized Jeremiah the prophet, saying, You are deserting to the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah37:14 Then said Jeremiah, It is false! I am not deserting to the Chaldeans. But the sentry would not listen to him. So Irijah took Jeremiah and brought him to the princes." 
Jeremiah37:15 Therefore the princes were enraged with Jeremiah and beat him and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe,for they had made that the prison. 
Jeremiah37:16 When Jeremiah had come into the cells in the dungeon and had remained there many days," 
Jeremiah37:17 Zedekiah the king sent and brought him out; and the king asked him secretly in his house, Is there any word from the Lord? And Jeremiah said, There is! And he said also, You shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah37:18 Moreover, Jeremiah said to King Zedekiah, In what have I sinned against you or against your servants or against this people, that you have put me in prison?" 
Jeremiah37:19 Where now are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against you or against this land?" 
Jeremiah37:20 Therefore hear now, I pray you, O my lord the king. Let my supplication, I pray you, come before you and be acceptable, that you do not cause me to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there." 
Jeremiah37:21 Then Zedekiah the king commanded, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard, and a round loaf of bread from the bakers' street was given to him daily until all the bread in the city was gone. So Jeremiah remained [imprisoned] in the court of the guard." 
Jeremiah38:1 NOW SHEPHATIAH son of Mattan, Gedaliah son of Pashhur, Jucal [also called Jehucal] son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur son of Malchiah heard the words that Jeremiah spoke to all the people, saying," 
Jeremiah38:2 Thus says the Lord: He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live; for he shall have his life as his only booty [as a prize of war], and he shall live. [Jer. 21:9.]" 
Jeremiah38:3 Thus says the Lord: This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it." 
Jeremiah38:4 Therefore the princes said to the king, We beseech you, let this man [Jeremiah] be put to death; for [talking] thus he weakens the hands of the soldiers who remain in this city and the hands of all the people by speaking such words to them. For this man is not seeking the welfare of these people, but [to do them] harm." 
Jeremiah38:5 Then Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hands; for the king is in no position to do anything against you." 
Jeremiah38:6 So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the dungeon or cistern pit [in the charge] of Malchiah the king's son, which was in the court of the guard; and they let Jeremiah down [into the pit] with ropes. And in the dungeon or cistern pit there was no water, but only mire, and Jeremiah sank in the mire." 
Jeremiah38:7 Now when Ebed-melech the Ethiopian [a Cushite], one of the eunuchs who was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon or cistern pit; and while the king was then sitting in the Gate of Benjamin," 
Jeremiah38:8 Ebed-melech went out of the king's house and spoke to the king, saying," 
Jeremiah38:9 My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon or cistern pit; and he is liable to die of hunger and is [as good as] dead in the place where he is, for there is no more bread left in the city." 
Jeremiah38:10 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, Take from here thirty men with you and raise Jeremiah the prophet out of the dungeon or cistern pit before he dies." 
Jeremiah38:11 So Ebed-melech took the men with him and went into the house of the king [to a room] under the treasury, and took along from there old rags and worn-out garments and let them down by ropes into the dungeon or cistern pit to Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah38:12 And Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, Put now these old rags and worn-out garments under your armpits under the ropes. And Jeremiah did so." 
Jeremiah38:13 So they drew up Jeremiah with the ropes and took him up out of the dungeon or cistern pit; and Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard. 
Jeremiah38:14 Then Zedekiah the king sent and brought Jeremiah the prophet to him into the third entrance that is in the house of the Lord. And the king said to Jeremiah, I am going to ask you something; hide nothing from me." 
Jeremiah38:15 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, If I tell you, will you not surely put me to death? And even if I did give you counsel, you would not listen to me." 
Jeremiah38:16 So Zedekiah the king swore secretly to Jeremiah, As the Lord lives, Who made our lives, I will not put you to death or give you into the hands of these men who seek your life." 
Jeremiah38:17 Then said Jeremiah to Zedekiah, Thus says the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel: If you will go forth and surrender to the princes of the king of Babylon, then you will live and this city will not be burned with fire; and you will live,you and your house." 
Jeremiah38:18 But if you will not go forth and surrender to the princes of the king of Babylon, then this city will be given into the hands of the Chaldeans and they will burn it with fire; and you will not escape out of their hands." 
Jeremiah38:19 And Zedekiah the king said to Jeremiah, I am afraid of the Jews who have deserted to the Chaldeans, lest the enemy deliver me into their [these former subjects'] hands and they mock me and abuse me." 
Jeremiah38:20 But Jeremiah said, They will not deliver you [to them]. Obey, I beg of you, the voice of the Lord, Who speaks to you through me. Then it will be well with you, and you will live." 
Jeremiah38:21 But if you refuse to go forth and surrender to them, this is the word [the vision] that the Lord has shown me:" 
Jeremiah38:22 Behold, [in it] all the women who are left in the house of the king of Judah will be brought forth to the king of Babylon's princes and will say [to you, King Zedekiah], Your friends have prevailed against your better judgment and have deceived you. Now when your feet are sunk in the mire [of trouble], they have turned their backs." 
Jeremiah38:23 All your wives and your children will be brought out to the Chaldeans; and you [yourself] will not escape out of their hands, but you will be seized by the king of Babylon, and you will cause this city [Jerusalem] to be burned with fire." 
Jeremiah38:24 Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, Let no man know of this conversation and you will not die." 
Jeremiah38:25 But if the princes hear that I have talked with you, and they come to you and say, Tell us what you said to the king and what he said to you; hide it not from us and we will not put you to death," 
Jeremiah38:26 Then you shall say to them, I was presenting to the king my humble plea that he would not send me back to Jonathan's house to die there." 
Jeremiah38:27 Then came all the princes to Jeremiah and asked him [just what King Zedekiah had anticipated they would ask], and he told them all that the king had commanded. So they left off speaking with him, for what the conversation [with the king] had been was not discovered." 
Jeremiah38:28 So Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken [by the Chaldeans]. 
Jeremiah39:1 IN THE ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and all his army came against Jerusalem and besieged it. [Jer. 52:4-27.]" 
Jeremiah39:2 And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, they broke into the city." 
Jeremiah39:3 [When Jerusalem was taken] all the princes of the king of Babylon came in and sat in the Middle Gate: Nergal-sharezer, Samgar-nebo, Sarsechim [the Rabsaris] a chief of the eunuchs, and Nergal-sharezer [II, the Rabmag] a chief of the magicians, with all the rest of the officials of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah39:4 And when Zedekiah king of Judah and all the men of war saw them, they fled and went forth out of the city at night by way of the king's garden, through the gate between the two walls, and [the king] went out toward the Arabah (the Jordan Valley)." 
Jeremiah39:5 But the Chaldean army pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. And when they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon at Riblah in the [Syrian] land of Hamath, where he pronounced sentence upon him." 
Jeremiah39:6 Then the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah at Riblah before his eyes; also the king of Babylon slew all the nobles of Judah. 
Jeremiah39:7 Moreover, he put out Zedekiah's eyes and bound him with shackles to take him to Babylon. [Ezek. 12:13.]" 
Jeremiah39:8 And the Chaldeans burned the king's house and the houses of the people and broke down the walls of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah39:9 Then Nebuzaradan the [chief executioner and] captain of the guard carried away captive to Babylon the rest of the people who remained in the city, along with those who deserted to him, and the remainder of the [so-called better class of] people who were left." 
Jeremiah39:10 But Nebuzaradan the [Babylonian] captain of the guard left in the land of Judah some of the poor of the people who had nothing, giving them vineyards and fields at the same time." 
Jeremiah39:11 Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon gave command concerning Jeremiah to Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, saying," 
Jeremiah39:12 Take him and look after him well; do him no harm but deal with him as he may ask of you. 
Jeremiah39:13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, Nebushasban [the Rabsaris] a chief of the eunuchs, Nergal-sharezer [II, the Rabmag] a chief of the magicians, and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon" 
Jeremiah39:14 Sent and took Jeremiah out of the court of the guard and entrusted him to Gedaliah [a prominent man whose father had once saved the prophet's life] son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, that he should take him home [with him to Mizpah]. So Jeremiah was released and dwelt among the people. [Jer. 26:24.]" 
Jeremiah39:15 Now the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah while he was [still] shut up in the court of the guard, saying," 
Jeremiah39:16 Go and say to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will bring to pass My words against this city for evil and not for good; and they will be accomplished before you on that day." 
Jeremiah39:17 But I will deliver you [Ebed-melech] on that day, says the Lord, and you will not be given into the hands of the men of whom you are afraid. [Jer. 38:7-13.]" 
Jeremiah39:18 For I will surely deliver you; and you will not fall by the sword, but your life will be [as your only booty and] as a reward of battle to you, because you have put your trust in Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah40:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah from the Lord after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he had taken him bound in chains among all who were carried away captive from Jerusalem and Judah, who were taken as exiles to Babylon." 
Jeremiah40:2 And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, The Lord your God pronounced evil upon this place." 
Jeremiah40:3 Now the Lord has brought it about and has done as He said: [It is] because you [of Judah] have sinned against the Lord and have not obeyed His voice, therefore this thing has come upon you." 
Jeremiah40:4 Now, see, I am freeing you today [Jeremiah] from the chains upon your hands. If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will keep an eye on you and look after you well. But if it seems bad to you to come with me to Babylon, then do not do it. Behold, all the land is before you; wherever it seems good, right, and convenient for you to go, go there." 
Jeremiah40:5 While [Jeremiah] was hesitating, [the captain of the guard] said, Go back then to Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people; or go wherever it seems right for you to go. So the captain of the guard gave him an allowance of food and a present and let him go." 
Jeremiah40:6 Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah son of Ahikam at Mizpah and dwelt with him among the people who were left in the land. 
Jeremiah40:7 Now when all the captains of the forces that were in the open country [of Judah] and their men heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah son of Ahikam governor in the land [of Judah] and had committed to him men, women, and children, those of the poorest of the land who had not been taken into exile to Babylon," 
Jeremiah40:8 They went to Gedaliah at Mizpah,Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men." 
Jeremiah40:9 And Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, swore to them and their men, saying, Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans; dwell in [this] land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you." 
Jeremiah40:10 As for me, I will dwell at Mizpah to stand [for you] before the Chaldeans who come to us [ministering to them and looking after the king's interests]; but as for you, gather the juice [of the grape], summer fruits and oil, and store them in your utensils [chosen for such purposes], and dwell in your cities that you have seized." 
Jeremiah40:11 Likewise, when all the Jews who were in Moab and among the people of Ammon and in Edom and who were in all the other countries heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah and had set over them [as governor] Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan," 
Jeremiah40:12 Then all the Jews returned from all the places to which they had been driven and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah, and gathered a great abundance of juice [of the grape] and summer fruits." 
Jeremiah40:13 Moreover, Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces that were in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah" 
Jeremiah40:14 And said to him, Do you know that Baalis king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael son of Nethaniah to take your life? But Gedaliah son of Ahikam did not believe them." 
Jeremiah40:15 Then Johanan son of Kareah spoke to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, Let me go, I pray you, and I will slay Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and no man will know it. Why should he slay you and cause all the Jews who are gathered to you to be scattered and the remnant of Judah to perish?" 
Jeremiah40:16 But Gedaliah son of Ahikam said to Johanan son of Kareah, You shall not do this thing, for you speak falsely of Ishmael." 
Jeremiah41:1 NOW IN the seventh month [of that year] Ishmael son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal descendants and one of the princes of the king, came [at the instigation of the Ammonites] with ten men to Gedaliah son of Ahikam in Mizpah. As they were eating a meal together there in Mizpah," 
Jeremiah41:2 Ishmael son of Nethaniah and the ten men who were with him arose and struck down Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, with the sword and killed him, the one whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land. [II Kings 25:25.]" 
Jeremiah41:3 Ishmael [manipulated by the Ammonites] also slew all the Jews who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and the Chaldean soldiers who were found there." 
Jeremiah41:4 And the second day after the slaying of Gedaliah, before anyone knew about it," 
Jeremiah41:5 There came eighty men from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria, having their beards shaved off and their clothes torn and having cut themselves, bringing cereal offerings and incense, going up [to Jerusalem] to present them in the house of the Lord." 
Jeremiah41:6 And Ishmael son of Nethaniah went out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping all the way as he went. As he met them, he said to them, Come to Gedaliah son of Ahikam." 
Jeremiah41:7 And when they came into the city, Ishmael son of Nethaniah slew them, and cast them into the midst of the [city] cistern pit,he and the men with him." 
Jeremiah41:8 But ten men were among them who said to Ishmael, Do not kill us! For we have stores hidden in the field,of wheat and barley and oil and honey. So he refrained and did not slay them with their brethren." 
Jeremiah41:9 Now the cistern pit into which Ishmael had cast all the dead bodies of the men whom he had slain in addition to Gedaliah was the one which Asa the king [of Judah] had once made for fear of Baasha king of Israel [should Baasha lay siege to Mizpah]. Ishmael son of Nethaniah filled it with those who were slain. 
Jeremiah41:10 Then Ishmael carried away captive all the rest of the people who were in Mizpah,even the king's daughters and all the people who remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had committed to Gedaliah son of Ahikam. Ishmael son of Nethaniah carried them away captive and departed to cross over [the Jordan] to the Ammonites." 
Jeremiah41:11 But when Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces that were with him heard of all the evil that Ishmael son of Nethaniah had done," 
Jeremiah41:12 They took all their men and went to fight with Ishmael son of Nethaniah and found him by the great pool that is in Gibeon. 
Jeremiah41:13 Now when all the people who were [captives] with Ishmael saw Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces that were with him, they were glad." 
Jeremiah41:14 So all the people whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned around and came back, and went to Johanan son of Kareah." 
Jeremiah41:15 But Ishmael son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men and went to the Ammonites. 
Jeremiah41:16 Then Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces that were with him took from Mizpah all the remainder of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael son of Nethaniah after he had slain Gedaliah son of Ahikam: [they were] the soldiers, the women, the children, and the eunuchs whom [Johanan] had brought back from Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:17 And they departed and stayed at the lodging place of Chimham, which is near Bethlehem, [intending] to go to Egypt" 
Jeremiah41:18 Because of the Chaldeans; for they were afraid of them because Ishmael son of Nethaniah had slain Gedaliah son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land [and whose death the king could avenge without much discrimination]." 
Jeremiah42:1 THEN ALL the captains of the forces, and Johanan son of Kareah and Jezaniah [Azariah] son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least even to the greatest came near" 
Jeremiah42:2 And said to Jeremiah the prophet, We beseech you that you will let our supplication be presented before you and that you will pray to the Lord your God for us, even for all this remnant [of the people of Judah]; for whereas we were once many, there are but a few of us left, as you see with your [own] eyes." 
Jeremiah42:3 [Pray] that the Lord your God may show us the way in which we should walk and the thing that we should do. 
Jeremiah42:4 Then Jeremiah the prophet said to them, I have heard you. Behold, I will pray to the Lord your God according to your words; and it will be that whatever thing the Lord will answer you, I will declare it to you; I will keep nothing back from you." 
Jeremiah42:5 Then they said to Jeremiah, May the Lord be a true and faithful witness against us if we fail to do according to all the things that the Lord your God sends you to tell us." 
Jeremiah42:6 Whether it is good or evil, we will obey the voice of the Lord our God, to Whom we are sending you [to inquire], that it may be well with us when we obey the voice of the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah42:7 And after ten days the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah42:8 Then he called Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces that were with him and all the people from the least even to the greatest," 
Jeremiah42:9 And said to them, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, to Whom you sent me to present your supplication before Him:" 
Jeremiah42:10 If you will remain in this land, then I will build you up and not pull you down, and I will plant you and not pull you up; for I will relent and comfort and ease Myself concerning the evil that [in chastisement] I have done to you [and I will substitute mercy and loving-kindness for judgment]. [Jer. 31:4, 28.]" 
Jeremiah42:11 Be not afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom you are fearful [with the profound and reverent dread inspired by deity]; be not afraid of him, says the Lord, for [he is a mere man, while I am the all-wise, all-powerful, and ever-present God] I [the Lord] am with you to save you and to deliver you from his hand." 
Jeremiah42:12 And I will grant mercy to you, that he may have mercy on you and permit you to remain in your own land." 
Jeremiah42:13 But if you say, We will not dwell in this land, and so disobey the voice of the Lord your God," 
Jeremiah42:14 Saying, No, but we will go to the land of Egypt, where we will not see war or hear the sound of the trumpet or be hungry for bread, and we will dwell there," 
Jeremiah42:15 Then hear the word of the Lord, O remnant of Judah. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: If you are fully determined to go to Egypt and you do go to dwell there temporarily," 
Jeremiah42:16 Then the sword which you fear shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt, and the famine of which you are afraid shall follow close after you to Egypt and in it, and there you shall die." 
Jeremiah42:17 So will it be with all the men who set their faces to go to Egypt to dwell there temporarily; they will die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence; none of them will remain or survive the evil that I will bring upon them." 
Jeremiah42:18 For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: As My anger and My wrath have been poured forth upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so shall My wrath be poured forth upon you when you enter Egypt. You shall be a detested thing, an astonishment and horror, a curse, a thing lightly esteemed and a taunt and a reproach; you shall see this place no more." 
Jeremiah42:19 The Lord has said to you, O remnant of Judah, Do not go to Egypt. Know for a certainty that I [Jeremiah] have warned and testified to you this day" 
Jeremiah42:20 That you have dealt deceitfully against your own lives; for you sent me [Jeremiah] to the Lord your God, saying, Pray for us to the Lord our God; and whatever the Lord our God says, declare it to us and we will do it." 
Jeremiah42:21 And I have this day declared it to you, but you have not obeyed the voice of the Lord your God in anything that He sent me to tell you." 
Jeremiah42:22 Now therefore know for a certainty that you shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence in the place [Egypt] where you desire to go to dwell temporarily." 
Jeremiah43:1 AND WHEN Jeremiah had finished speaking to all the people all these words of the Lord their God,everything for which the Lord their God had sent him to them, 
Jeremiah43:2 Then Azariah son of Hoshaiah and Johanan son of Kareah and all the proud and insolent men said to Jeremiah, You are not telling the truth! The Lord our God has not sent you to say, Do not go into Egypt to dwell there temporarily." 
Jeremiah43:3 But Baruch son of Neriah is setting you against us to deliver us into the hands of the Chaldeans, so they may put us to death or carry us away captive to Babylon." 
Jeremiah43:4 So Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces and all the people did not obey the voice of the Lord to remain in the land of Judah. 
Jeremiah43:5 But Johanan son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces took all the remnant of Judah who had returned to dwell in the land of Judah from all the nations to which they had been driven, 
Jeremiah43:6 Even men, women, and children, the king's daughters, and every person whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had left with Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan; also he took Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch son of Neriah." 
Jeremiah43:7 So they came into the land of Egypt,for they obeyed not the voice of the Lord. And they came to Tahpanhes. 
Jeremiah43:8 Then came the word of the Lord to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying," 
Jeremiah43:9 Take large stones in your hands and hide them in the mortar in the pavement of brick which is at the entrance of Pharaoh's house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah;" 
Jeremiah43:10 And say to them, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, My servant [because he works for Me], and I [through him] will set his throne upon these stones that I have hidden; and his [glittering, royal] canopy will be stretched over them. [Ezek. 29:19, 20.]" 
Jeremiah43:11 And he shall come and smite the land of Egypt, giving such as are [destined] for death, to death, and such as are [destined] for captivity, to captivity, and such as are [destined] for the sword, to the sword." 
Jeremiah43:12 And I [through him] will kindle a fire in the temples of the gods of Egypt; and he will burn [the houses] and carry [the people] away captive. And he will array himself with the land of Egypt, as a shepherd puts on his garment [as he wills and when he chooses]; and he will go away from there in peace." 
Jeremiah43:13 [Nebuchadrezzar] shall break also the images and obelisks of Heliopolis [called On or Beth-shemesh,house of the sun] in the land of Egypt, and the temples of the gods of Egypt shall he burn with fire." 
Jeremiah44:1 THE WORD that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews who were dwelling in the land of Egypt,at Migdol, at Tahpanhes, at Memphis,and in the country of Pathros, saying," 
Jeremiah44:2 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: You have seen all the evil that I brought upon Jerusalem and upon all the cities of Judah; and see, this day they are a desolation and no man dwells in them" 
Jeremiah44:3 Because of the wickedness which they committed, provoking Me to anger in that they went to burn incense to serve other gods that they did not know,neither they, nor you, nor your fathers." 
Jeremiah44:4 Yet I sent to you all My servants the prophets earnestly and persistently, saying, Oh, do not do this loathsome and shamefully vile thing that I hate and abhor!" 
Jeremiah44:5 But they did not listen and obey or submit and consent to turn from their wickedness and burn no incense to other gods. 
Jeremiah44:6 Therefore My wrath and My anger were poured out and were kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; and they became wasted and desolate, as it is this day." 
Jeremiah44:7 Therefore now thus says the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel: Why do you commit this great evil against yourselves that will cut off from you man and woman, infant and weaned child, out of Judah, to leave yourselves with none remaining?" 
Jeremiah44:8 Why do you provoke Me to anger with the works (idols) of your own hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, where you [of your own accord] have come to dwell temporarily, that you might be cut off and become a curse and a reproach (an object of reviling and taunts) among all the nations of the earth?" 
Jeremiah44:9 Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, the wickedness of the kings of Judah, the wickedness of their wives [who clung to their foreign gods], your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives [who imitated their queens], which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?" 
Jeremiah44:10 They are not humbled (contrite, penitent, and bruised for their guilt and iniquities) even to this day, neither have they feared and revered [Me] nor walked in My law or My statutes which I set before you and before your fathers. [Jer. 6:15; 26:4-6; 44:23.]" 
Jeremiah44:11 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set My face against you for evil,even to cut off all Judah [from the land]." 
Jeremiah44:12 And I will take away the remnant of Judah who have set their faces to come into the land of Egypt to dwell here temporarily [fleeing to Egypt instead of surrendering to the Chaldeans as directed by the Lord through Jeremiah], and they will all be consumed and will fall in the land of Egypt; they will be consumed by the sword and by famine. From the least even to the greatest, they shall die by the sword and by famine. And they will be a detestable thing, an astonishment, a curse, and a reproach (an object of horror, reviling, and taunts)." 
Jeremiah44:13 For I will punish all the inhabitants of the land of Egypt as I have punished Jerusalem,by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence," 
Jeremiah44:14 So that none of the remnant of Judah who have come to the land of Egypt to dwell temporarily shall escape or survive or return to the land of Judah, to which they desire and lift up their souls to return to dwell there; for none shall return except [a few] fugitives." 
Jeremiah44:15 Then all the men who knew that their wives were burning incense to other gods, and all the women who stood by,a great assembly,even all the people who dwelt in Pathros in the land of Egypt, answered Jeremiah:" 
Jeremiah44:16 As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the Lord, we will not listen to or obey you." 
Jeremiah44:17 But we will certainly perform every word of the vows we have made: to burn incense to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her as we have done,we and our fathers, our kings and our princes,in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then we had plenty of food and were well off and prosperous and saw no evil." 
Jeremiah44:18 But since we stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked everything and have been consumed by the sword and by famine." 
Jeremiah44:19 [And the wives said] When we burned incense to the queen of heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make cakes [in the shape of a star] to represent and honor her and pour out drink offerings to her without [the knowledge and approval of] our husbands?" 
Jeremiah44:20 Then Jeremiah said to all the people,to the men and to the women and to all the people who had given him that answer, 
Jeremiah44:21 The incense that you burned in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem,you and your fathers, your kings and your princes, and the people of the land,did not the Lord [earnestly] remember [your idolatrous wickedness] and did it not come into His mind?" 
Jeremiah44:22 The Lord could no longer endure the evil of your doings and the abominations which you have committed; because of them therefore has your land become a desolation and an [astonishing] waste and a curse, without inhabitants, as it is this day." 
Jeremiah44:23 Because you have burned incense [to idols] and because you have sinned against the Lord and have not obeyed the voice of the Lord or walked in His law and in His statutes and in His testimonies, therefore this evil has fallen upon you, as it is this day." 
Jeremiah44:24 Moreover, Jeremiah said to all the people, including all the women, Hear the word of the Lord, all you of Judah who are in the land of Egypt," 
Jeremiah44:25 Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: You and your wives have both declared with your mouths and fulfilled it with your hands, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed to burn incense to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her. [Surely] then confirm your vows and [surely] perform your vows! [If you will defy all My warnings to you, then, by all means, go ahead!]" 
Jeremiah44:26 Therefore hear the word of the Lord, all [you people of] Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have sworn by My great name, says the Lord, that My name shall no more be invoked by the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, As the Lord God lives." 
Jeremiah44:27 Behold, I am watching over them for evil and not for good; and all the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by famine until there is an end of them and they are all destroyed." 
Jeremiah44:28 Yet a small number who escape the sword shall return out of the land of Egypt to the land of Judah; and all the remnant of Judah who came to the land of Egypt to dwell temporarily shall know whose words shall stand, Mine or theirs." 
Jeremiah44:29 And this will be the sign to you, says the Lord, that I will punish you in this place, so that you may know that My words will surely stand against you for evil." 
Jeremiah44:30 Thus says the Lord: Behold, I will give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hands of his enemies and into the hands of those who seek his life, just as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, who was his enemy and was seeking his life." 
Jeremiah45:1 THE WORD that Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Baruch son of Neriah, when he had written these words in a book at the dictation of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, saying," 
Jeremiah45:2 Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, unto you, O Baruch:" 
Jeremiah45:3 You said, Woe is me now! For the Lord has added sorrow to my pain; I am weary with my groaning and sighing and I find no rest." 
Jeremiah45:4 Say this to him: The Lord speaks thus: Behold, what I have built I will break down, and that which I have planted I will pluck up,and this means the whole land." 
Jeremiah45:5 And should you seek great things for yourself? Seek them not; for behold, I will bring evil upon all flesh, says the Lord, but your life I will give to you [as your only booty and] as a [snatched] prize of war wherever you go." 
Jeremiah46:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning and against the [Gentile] nations. 
Jeremiah46:2 Concerning and against Egypt: against the army of Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates at Carchemish, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote and defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah: [Isa. 19-20; Ezek. 29-32;Zech. 14:18, 19.]" 
Jeremiah46:3 Put in order the buckler and shield, and advance for battle!" 
Jeremiah46:4 Harness the horses, and mount, you horsemen! Stand forth with your helmets! Polish the spears, put on the coats of mail!" 
Jeremiah46:5 Why have I seen it? They are dismayed and have turned backward, and their mighty warriors are beaten down. They flee in haste and look not back; terror is on every side! says the Lord. [Ps. 31:13; Jer. 6:25; 20:3, 10; 49:29.]" 
Jeremiah46:6 Let not the swift flee nor the mighty man escape; in the north by the river Euphrates they stumble and fall. 
Jeremiah46:7 Who is this that rises up like the Nile [River], like the branches [of the Nile in the delta of Egypt] whose waters surge and toss?" 
Jeremiah46:8 Egypt rises like the Nile, like the rivers whose waters surge and toss. She says, I will rise, I will cover the earth; I will destroy cities and their inhabitants." 
Jeremiah46:9 Go up, you horses, and drive furiously, you chariots! Let the warriors go forth,men of Ethiopia and Put who handle the shield, men of Lud who are skilled in handling and stringing the bow." 
Jeremiah46:10 But that day is a day of the Lord, the Lord of hosts,a day of vengeance, that He may avenge Himself on His adversaries. And the sword shall devour, and it shall be satiated and shall drink its fill of their blood; for the Lord, the Lord of hosts has a sacrifice [like that of a great sin offering] in the north country by the river Euphrates." 
Jeremiah46:11 Go up into Gilead and take [healing] balm, O Virgin Daughter of Egypt! In vain do you use many medicines; for you there is no healing or remedy." 
Jeremiah46:12 The nations have heard of your disgrace and shame, and your cry has filled the earth. For warrior has stumbled against and thrown down warrior, and they have fallen both of them together." 
Jeremiah46:13 The word that the Lord spoke to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the coming of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and his smiting of the land of Egypt: 
Jeremiah46:14 Declare in Egypt and proclaim in Migdol; and publish in Memphis and in Tahpanhes; say, Stand forth and get yourself ready, for the sword devours round about you." 
Jeremiah46:15 Why is your strong one [the sacred bull-god Apis] swept and dragged away? He stood not, because the Lord drove him and thrust him down." 
Jeremiah46:16 [The Lord] made many to stumble and fall; yes, they fell one upon another. And they said, Arise, and let us go back to our own people and to the land of our birth, away from the sword of the oppressor." 
Jeremiah46:17 They cried there, Pharaoh king of Egypt is destroyed and is only a noise; he has let the appointed time [in which God had him on probation] pass by!" 
Jeremiah46:18 As I live, says the King, Whose name is the Lord of hosts, surely like Tabor among the mountains and like Carmel by the sea, so shall he [the king of Babylon, standing out above other rulers] come." 
Jeremiah46:19 O you daughter who dwells in Egypt and you who dwell with her, furnish yourselves [with all you will need] to go into exile, for Memphis will be waste, desolate, and burned up, without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah46:20 Egypt is a very fair heifer [like Apis the bull-god, to which the country is, so to speak, espoused], but destruction [a gadfly] is coming,out of the north it is coming [against her]!" 
Jeremiah46:21 Also her hired troops in the midst of her are like fatted calves [in the stall], for they also are turned back and are fleeing together; they do not stand, because the day of their calamity is coming upon them, the time of their visitation (their inspection and punishment)." 
Jeremiah46:22 The sound [of Egypt fleeing from the enemy] is like the rustling of an escaping serpent, for her foes advance with a mighty army and come against her with axes, like those who fell trees and cut wood." 
Jeremiah46:23 They shall cut down her forest, says the Lord, though it is impenetrable, because they [the invading army] are more numerous than locusts and cannot be counted." 
Jeremiah46:24 The Daughter of Egypt shall be disgraced; she shall be delivered into the hands of the people of the north [the Chaldeans]. 
Jeremiah46:25 The Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, says: Behold, I will visit punishment upon Amon [the chief god of the sacred city, the capital of Upper Egypt] of No or Thebes, and upon Pharaoh and Egypt, with her gods and her kings,even Pharaoh and all those [Jews and others] who put their trust in [Pharaoh as a support against Babylon]." 
Jeremiah46:26 And I will deliver them into the hands of those who seek their lives, and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hands of his servants. Afterward [Egypt] will be inhabited as in the days of old, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah46:27 But fear not, O My servant Jacob, and be not dismayed, O Israel. For behold, I will save you from afar, and your offspring from the land of their exile; and Jacob will return and be quiet and at ease, and none will make him afraid." 
Jeremiah46:28 Fear not, O Jacob My servant, says the Lord, for I am with you. For I will make a full and complete end of all the nations to which I have driven you; yet I will not make a full end of you. But I will chasten and correct you in just measure, and I will not hold you guiltless by any means or leave you unpunished." 
Jeremiah47:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the Philistines before Pharaoh smote [the Philistine city] Gaza. [Isa. 14:29-31; Ezek. 25:15-17; Amos 1:6-8; Zeph. 2:4-7; Zech. 9:5-7.] 
Jeremiah47:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the Philistines before Pharaoh smote [the Philistine city] Gaza. [Isa. 14:29-31; Ezek. 25:15-17; Amos 1:6-8; Zeph. 2:4-7; Zech. 9:5-7.] 
Jeremiah47:2 Thus says the Lord: Behold, waters are rising out of the north and shall become an overflowing stream and shall overflow the land and all that is in it, the city and those who dwell in it. Then the men shall cry, and all the inhabitants of the land [of Philistia] shall wail." 
Jeremiah47:3 At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of [the Chaldean king's] war-horses, at the rattling of his chariots, and at the rumbling of his wheels, the fathers do not look back to their children, so feeble are their hands [with terror]" 
Jeremiah47:4 Because of the day that is coming to destroy all the Philistines and to cut off from Tyre and Sidon every helper who remains. For the Lord is destroying the Philistines, the remnant [still surviving] of the isle or coastland of Caphtor [where the Philistines originated]. [Amos 9:7.]" 
Jeremiah47:4 Because of the day that is coming to destroy all the Philistines and to cut off from Tyre and Sidon every helper who remains. For the Lord is destroying the Philistines, the remnant [still surviving] of the isle or coastland of Caphtor [where the Philistines originated]. [Amos 9:7.]" 
Jeremiah47:5 Baldness [as a token of mourning] will come upon Gaza; Ashkelon will be cut off and be dumb. O remnant of their valley and of the giants, how long will you gash yourselves [as a token of mourning]?" 
Jeremiah47:6 O you sword of the Lord, how long will it be before you are quiet? Put yourself into your scabbard; rest and be still." 
Jeremiah47:7 How can it [the sword of the Lord] be quiet when the Lord has given it an assignment to discharge? Against Ashkelon and against the [whole Philistine] seashore He has appointed it. 
Jeremiah48:1 CONCERNING MOAB: Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Woe to [the city of] Nebo, for it is laid waste! Kiriathaim is put to shame and taken; Misgab [the high fortress] is put to shame, broken down, and crushed. [Isa. 15-16; 25:10-12; Ezek. 25:8-11; Amos 2:1-3; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Jeremiah48:1 CONCERNING MOAB: Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Woe to [the city of] Nebo, for it is laid waste! Kiriathaim is put to shame and taken; Misgab [the high fortress] is put to shame, broken down, and crushed. [Isa. 15-16; 25:10-12; Ezek. 25:8-11; Amos 2:1-3; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Jeremiah48:2 The glory of Moab is no more; in Heshbon [a border town between Reuben and Gad, east of the Jordan River] they planned evil against her, saying, Come, let us cut her off from being a nation. You also, O [town of] Madmen, shall be brought to silence; the sword shall pursue you." 
Jeremiah48:3 The sound of a cry from Horonaim, [a cry of] desolation and great destruction!" 
Jeremiah48:4 Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard [as far as Zoar]. 
Jeremiah48:5 For the ascent of Luhith will be climbed [by successive bands of fugitives] with continual weeping; for on the descent of Horonaim they have heard the distress of the cry of destruction. 
Jeremiah48:6 Flee! Save your lives! But they shall be like a destitute and forsaken person in the wilderness. 
Jeremiah48:7 For because you have trusted in your works [your bungling idol images] and in your treasures [instead of in God], you shall also be taken. And Chemosh [your god] shall go into captivity, his priests and his princes together." 
Jeremiah48:8 And the destroyer shall come upon every city; no city shall escape. The [Jordan] valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be devastated, as the Lord has said." 
Jeremiah48:9 Give wings to Moab, for [by that means only] she will flee and get away; her cities will be desolate, without any to dwell in them." 
Jeremiah48:10 Cursed be he who does the work of the Lord negligently [with slackness, deceitfully]; and cursed be he who keeps back his sword from blood [in executing judgment pronounced by the Lord]." 
Jeremiah48:11 Moab has been at ease from his youth, and he has settled on his lees [like wine] and has not been drawn off from one vessel to another, neither has he gone into exile. Therefore his taste remains in him, and his scent has not changed." 
Jeremiah48:12 Therefore behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I shall send to [Moab] tilters who shall tilt him up and shall empty his vessels and break his bottles (earthenware) in pieces." 
Jeremiah48:13 And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh [his god], as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their confidence. [I Kings 12:28, 29.]" 
Jeremiah48:14 How can you say, We are heroes and mighty men in the war?" 
Jeremiah48:15 Moab has been made desolate, and his cities have gone up [in smoke and flame]; and his chosen young men have gone down to the slaughter, says the King, Whose name is the Lord of hosts." 
Jeremiah48:16 The destruction of Moab is coming near, and his calamity hastens swiftly." 
Jeremiah48:17 Bemoan him, all you [nations] who are around him, and all you [nations more remote] who know his name; say, How broken is the mighty scepter [of national power] and the splendid rod [of glory]!" 
Jeremiah48:18 Come down from your glory, you inhabitant of the Daughter of Dibon, and sit on the ground among the thirsty! For the destroyer of Moab is advancing against you; he will destroy your strongholds." 
Jeremiah48:19 O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way and watch! Ask him who flees and her who escapes, What has happened?" 
Jeremiah48:20 Moab is put to shame, for she is broken down. Wail and cry out! Tell by [the banks of] the Arnon that Moab is laid waste (destroyed)." 
Jeremiah48:21 Judgment has come upon the land of the plain,upon Holon and Jahzah and Mephaath," 
Jeremiah48:22 And upon Dibon and Nebo and Beth-diblathaim," 
Jeremiah48:23 And upon Kiriathaim and Beth-gamul and Beth-meon," 
Jeremiah48:24 And upon Kerioth and Bozrah,and all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near." 
Jeremiah48:25 The horn (strength) of Moab is cut off, and his arm [of authority] is shattered, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:26 Make him drunk, for he has magnified himself against the Lord [by resisting Reuben's occupation of the land the Lord had assigned him]. Moab also shall splash in his vomit, and he too shall be held in derision. [Num. 22:1-7.]" 
Jeremiah48:27 For was not Israel [an object of] derision to you? Was he found among thieves,since whenever you speak of him you wag your head [in scorn]? 
Jeremiah48:28 O you inhabitants of Moab, leave the cities and dwell among the rocks, and be like the dove that makes her nest in the walls of the yawning ravine." 
Jeremiah48:29 We have heard of the [giddy] pride of Moab, the extremely proud one,his loftiness, his arrogance, his conceit, and the haughtiness of his heart." 
Jeremiah48:30 I know his insolent wrath, says the Lord, and the nothingness of his boastings and his deeds; they are false and have accomplished nothing." 
Jeremiah48:31 Therefore I will wail over Moab, and I will cry out over the whole of Moab. Over the men of Kir-heres (Kir-hareseth) there will be sighing and mourning. [Isa. 15:1; 16:7, 11.]" 
Jeremiah48:32 O vines of Sibmah, I weep for you more than the weeping of Jazer [over its ruins and wasted vineyards]. Your tendrils [of influence] have gone over the sea, reaching even to Jazer. The destroyer has fallen upon your summer fruit harvest and your [season's] crop of grapes." 
Jeremiah48:33 Joy and gladness are taken away from the fruitful orchards and fields and from the land of Moab. And I have made the juice [of the grape] to fail from what is pressed out in the vats; no one treads [the grapes] with shouting. Their shouting is no shouting [of joy, but is a battle cry]." 
Jeremiah48:34 From the cry of Heshbon even to Elealeh even to Jahaz have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even to Horonaim and Eglath-shelishiyah [like a three-year-old heifer], for even the waters of Nimrim have become desolations." 
Jeremiah48:35 Moreover, I will cause to cease in Moab, says the Lord, the one who ascends and offers in the high place and the one who burns incense to his gods." 
Jeremiah48:36 Therefore My heart moans and sighs for Moab like flutes, and My heart moans and sighs like flutes for the men of Kir-heres (Kir-hareseth); therefore [the remnant of] the abundant riches they gained has perished." 
Jeremiah48:37 For every head is shaven bald and every beard cut off: upon all the hands are cuts (slashes) and upon the loins is sackcloth [all to express mourning]. [Isa. 15:2, 3.]" 
Jeremiah48:38 On all the housetops of Moab and in its streets there is lamentation everywhere, for I have broken Moab like a vessel in which there is no pleasure, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:39 How it is broken down! How they wail! How Moab has turned his back in shame! So Moab has become [an object of] a derision and a [horrifying] terror to all who are round about him. 
Jeremiah48:40 For thus says the Lord: Behold, he [Babylon] shall fly swiftly like an eagle and shall spread out his wings against Moab. [Ezek. 17:3.]" 
Jeremiah48:41 Kerioth [and the cities] shall be taken and the strongholds seized; and the hearts of the mighty warriors of Moab in that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs [in childbirth]. 
Jeremiah48:42 And Moab shall be destroyed from being a nation, because he has magnified himself against the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:43 Terror and pit and snare are before you, O inhabitant of Moab, says the Lord. [Isa. 24:7.]" 
Jeremiah48:44 He who flees from the terror will fall into the pit, and he who gets up out of the pit will be taken and caught in the trap or snare; for I will bring upon it, even upon Moab, the year of their visitation (their inspection and infliction of punishment), says the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:45 In the shadow of Heshbon the fugitives stand powerless (stopped in their tracks, helpless and without strength), for a fire has gone forth from Heshbon, a flame from the midst of Sihon; it has destroyed the corner of Moab and the crowns of the heads of the ones in tumult [the proud Moabites]." 
Jeremiah48:46 Woe to you, O Moab! The people of [the god] Chemosh are undone; for your sons are taken away captive and your daughters into captivity." 
Jeremiah48:47 Yet will I reverse the captivity and restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days, says the Lord. Thus far is the judgment on Moab." 
Jeremiah49:1 CONCERNING and against the Ammonites: Thus says the Lord: Has Israel no sons [to return after their captivity and claim the territory of Gad east of the Jordan which the Ammonites have taken over]? Has [Israel's Gad] no heir? Why then has Milcom [the god the Ammonites call their king] dispossessed and inherited Gad, and [why do] his people dwell in Gad's cities?" 
Jeremiah49:2 Therefore behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the Ammonites; and it [the high ground on which it stands] will become a desolate heap, and its daughter [villages] will be burned with fire. Then will Israel dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the Lord. [Ezek. 21:28-32; 25:1-7, 11; Amos 1:13-15; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Jeremiah49:2 Therefore behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the Ammonites; and it [the high ground on which it stands] will become a desolate heap, and its daughter [villages] will be burned with fire. Then will Israel dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the Lord. [Ezek. 21:28-32; 25:1-7, 11; Amos 1:13-15; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Jeremiah49:3 Wail, O Heshbon [in Moab, just south of Ammon], for Ai [in Ammon] is laid waste! Cry out, you daughter [villages] of Rabbah! Gird yourselves with sackcloth, lament, and run to and fro inside the [sheepfold] enclosures; for Milcom [the god-king] shall go into exile, together with his priests and his princes." 
Jeremiah49:4 Why do you boast of your valleys? Your valley flows away, O [Ammon] rebellious and faithless daughter, who trusted in her treasures, who said, Who can come against me?" 
Jeremiah49:5 Behold, I will bring terror upon you, says the Lord, the Lord of hosts, from all who are round about you; and you will be driven out, each man fleeing straight before him [without thought of his neighbor], and there will be no one to gather together the fugitives." 
Jeremiah49:6 And afterward I will reverse the captivity of the children of Ammon and restore their fortunes, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:7 Concerning and against Edom: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Is there no longer wisdom in Teman [a district in Edom]? Has counsel vanished from the intelligent and prudent? Is their wisdom all poured out and used up? [Isa. 34; 63:1-6; Ezek. 25:12-14; 35; Amos 1:11, 12; Obad. 1-16; Mal. 1:2-5.]" 
Jeremiah49:7 Concerning and against Edom: Thus says the Lord of hosts: Is there no longer wisdom in Teman [a district in Edom]? Has counsel vanished from the intelligent and prudent? Is their wisdom all poured out and used up? [Isa. 34; 63:1-6; Ezek. 25:12-14; 35; Amos 1:11, 12; Obad. 1-16; Mal. 1:2-5.]" 
Jeremiah49:8 Flee, turn back, dwell deep [in the deserts to escape the Chaldeans], O inhabitants of Dedan [neighbor of Edom]! For I will bring the calamity and destruction of Esau upon him [Edom] when I inspect and punish him." 
Jeremiah49:9 If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave some ungleaned grapes? If thieves came by night, would they not destroy only what is enough [for them]?" 
Jeremiah49:10 But I have stripped Esau (Edom) bare; I have uncovered his hiding places, and he cannot hide himself. His offspring will be destroyed, with his brethren and his neighbors; and he will be no more." 
Jeremiah49:11 Leave your fatherless children; I will [do what is necessary to] preserve them alive. And let [those who have been made] your widows trust and confide in Me. 
Jeremiah49:12 For thus says the Lord: Behold, they [Israel] whose rule was not to drink the cup [of wrath] shall assuredly drink,and are you to remain unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you shall surely drink. [Jer. 25:28, 29.]" 
Jeremiah49:13 For I have sworn by Myself, says the Lord, that Bozrah [in Edom, between Petra and the Dead Sea] shall become a horror, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all its cities shall be perpetual wastes." 
Jeremiah49:14 I have heard a report from the Lord, and a messenger is sent to the nations, saying, Gather together and come against her! And rise up for the battle." 
Jeremiah49:15 For, behold, I will make you [Edom] small among the nations and despised among men. [Ezek. 35:9.]" 
Jeremiah49:16 Your [object of] horror (your idol) has deceived you, and the pride of your heart [has deceived you], O you who dwell in the clefts of the rock [Sela or Petra], who hold and occupy the height of the hill. Though you make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring you down from there, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:17 And Edom shall be an astonishment and a horror; everyone who goes by it shall be astonished and shall hiss with horror at all its plagues and disasters. 
Jeremiah49:18 As [it was] in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities, says the Lord, no man shall dwell there; neither shall a son of man live in it temporarily." 
Jeremiah49:19 See, there comes up one [Nebuchadnezzar] like a lion from [lurking in] the jungles (the pride) of the Jordan against the strong habitation [of Edom] and into the permanent pastures; for in a twinkling I will drive him [Edom] from there. And I will appoint over him the one whom I choose. For who is like Me? And who will appoint for Me the time and prosecute Me for this proceeding? And what [earthly, national] shepherd can stand before Me and defy Me?" 
Jeremiah49:20 Therefore hear the plan of the Lord which He has made against Edom, and His purposes which He has formed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall be dragged away [by Nebuchadnezzar], even the little ones of the flock; surely He shall make their habitation desolate because of them and their fold shocked at their fate." 
Jeremiah49:21 At the sound of their fall the earth shall tremble; at their crying the sound shall be heard at the Red Sea. 
Jeremiah49:22 Behold, one will come up and fly swiftly like an eagle and spread his wings against [the Edomite city of] Bozrah; and in that day the hearts of the mighty warriors of Edom will be like the heart of a woman in her pangs [in childbirth]. [Jer. 48:41.]" 
Jeremiah49:23 Concerning and against Damascus [in Syria]: Hamath and Arpad are confounded and put to shame, for they have heard bad news; they are fainthearted and wasting away; there is trouble and anxiety [like] on a [storm-tossed] sea which cannot rest." 
Jeremiah49:24 Damascus has become feeble; she has turned to flee, and terror and panic have seized her; anguish and sorrow have taken hold of her, like a woman in childbirth." 
Jeremiah49:25 How [remarkable that] the renowned city is not deserted, the city of my joy! [exclaims one from Damascus]." 
Jeremiah49:26 Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day, says the Lord of hosts. [Isa. 17:1-3; Amos 1:3-5; Zech. 9:1.]" 
Jeremiah49:26 Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day, says the Lord of hosts. [Isa. 17:1-3; Amos 1:3-5; Zech. 9:1.]" 
Jeremiah49:27 And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it will consume the palaces of Ben-hadad [title of several kings of Syria]." 
Jeremiah49:28 Concerning Kedar [a tribe of nomad Arabs] and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon shall smite: Thus says the Lord [to him]: Arise, go up against Kedar and destroy the sons of the east." 
Jeremiah49:29 Their tents and their flocks shall they [the Chaldeans] take,their tent hangings and all their utensils and their camels. And men shall cry to them, Terror on every side! [Ps. 31:13; Jer. 6:25; 20:3, 10; 46:5.]" 
Jeremiah49:30 Flee, wander far off, dwell deep [in the deserts], O you inhabitants of Hazor [in the Arabian Desert] says the Lord, for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon has planned a course against you and has conceived a purpose against you." 
Jeremiah49:31 Arise [Nebuchadrezzar], get up into a nation which is at ease, which dwells without care, says the Lord, [a nation] which has neither gates nor bars, which dwells apart and alone." 
Jeremiah49:32 And their camels will be booty, and their herds of cattle a spoil; and I will scatter to all [the four] winds those who [as evidence of their idolatry] clip off the corners of their hair, and I will bring their calamity from every side, says the Lord. [Lev. 19:27.]" 
Jeremiah49:33 And Hazor shall become a dwelling place of jackals, a desolation forever; no man shall dwell there; neither shall a son of man live in it temporarily." 
Jeremiah49:34 The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning and against Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying," 
Jeremiah49:35 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief [weapon and part] of their strength." 
Jeremiah49:36 And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four corners of heaven; and I will scatter them toward all those winds, and there will be no nation to which the outcasts of Elam will not come." 
Jeremiah49:37 And I will cause Elam to be dismayed and terrified before their enemies and before those who seek and demand their lives; and I will bring evil and disaster upon them, even My fierce anger, says the Lord. And I will send the sword after them until I have consumed them." 
Jeremiah49:38 And I will set My throne [of judgment] in Elam [whose capital city was Shushan, from which God wrought wonders through Nehemiah, Esther, and Daniel]; and I will destroy from their king and princes, says the Lord. [Neh. 1:1; Esth. 1:2; Dan. 8:1, 2.]" 
Jeremiah49:38 And I will set My throne [of judgment] in Elam [whose capital city was Shushan, from which God wrought wonders through Nehemiah, Esther, and Daniel]; and I will destroy from their king and princes, says the Lord. [Neh. 1:1; Esth. 1:2; Dan. 8:1, 2.]" 
Jeremiah49:38 And I will set My throne [of judgment] in Elam [whose capital city was Shushan, from which God wrought wonders through Nehemiah, Esther, and Daniel]; and I will destroy from their king and princes, says the Lord. [Neh. 1:1; Esth. 1:2; Dan. 8:1, 2.]" 
Jeremiah49:38 And I will set My throne [of judgment] in Elam [whose capital city was Shushan, from which God wrought wonders through Nehemiah, Esther, and Daniel]; and I will destroy from their king and princes, says the Lord. [Neh. 1:1; Esth. 1:2; Dan. 8:1, 2.]" 
Jeremiah49:39 But it shall be in the latter days (the end of days) that I will reverse the captivity and restore the fortunes of Elam, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:1 THE WORD that the Lord spoke concerning and against Babylon and concerning and against the land of the Chaldeans through Jeremiah the prophet: [Isa. 13:1-14:23; 47; Hab. 1, 2.]" 
Jeremiah50:2 Declare it among the nations and publish it and set up a signal [to spread the news],publish and conceal it not; say, Babylon has been taken; Bel [the patron god] is put to shame, Merodach (Bel) is dismayed and broken down. [Babylon's] images are put to shame, her [senseless] idols are thrown down!" 
Jeremiah50:3 For out of the north there has come up a nation [Media] against her which will make her land desolate, and none will dwell there. They will have fled, they will be gone,from man even to beast." 
Jeremiah50:4 In those days and at that time, says the Lord, the children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah together; they shall come up weeping as they come and seek the Lord their God [inquiring for and of Him and requiring Him, both by right of necessity and of the promises of God's Word]." 
Jeremiah50:5 They shall ask the way to Zion, with their faces in that direction, saying, Come, let us join ourselves to the Lord in a perpetual covenant that shall not be forgotten." 
Jeremiah50:6 My people have been lost sheep; their shepherds have led them astray [to favorite places of idolatry] on mountains [that seduce]. They have gone from [one sin to another] mountain to hill; they have forgotten their [own] resting-place. [Isa. 53:6; I Pet. 2:25.] 
Jeremiah50:7 All who found them devoured them; and their adversaries said, We are not guilty, because they have sinned against the Lord [and are no longer holy to Him], their true habitation of righteousness and justice, even the Lord, the hope of their fathers." 
Jeremiah50:8 Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land of the Chaldeans; and be as the he-goats [who serve as examples and as leaders in the flight] before the flocks. [Jer. 51:6, 9, 45; II Cor. 6:17; Rev. 18:4.]" 
Jeremiah50:9 For behold, I will raise and cause to come up against Babylon an assembly of great nations from the north country. They will equip and set themselves against her; from there she will be taken. Their arrows will be like [both] an expert, mighty warrior and like his arrows,none [of them] will return in vain." 
Jeremiah50:10 And Chaldea shall become plunder; all who plunder her shall be satisfied, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:11 Though you are glad, though you rejoice, O you who plunder My heritage, though you are wanton and skip about like a heifer at grass and neigh like strong stallions," 
Jeremiah50:12 Your mother [Babylon] shall be put to great shame; she who bore you shall blush and be disgraced. Behold, she shall be at the rear of the nations [least of the nations],a wilderness, waste, and desert." 
Jeremiah50:13 Because of the wrath of the Lord she shall not be inhabited but shall be wholly desolate; everyone who goes by Babylon shall be appalled and hiss and mock at all her wounds and plagues. 
Jeremiah50:14 Set yourselves in array against Babylon round about, all you archers. Shoot at her! Spare not the arrows, for she has sinned against the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:15 Raise the battle cry against her round about! She gives her hand [in agreement] and surrenders; her supports and battlements fall, her walls are thrown down. For this is the vengeance of the Lord: take vengeance on her; as she has done [to others], do to her." 
Jeremiah50:16 Exterminate the sower from Babylon, and the one who handles the sickle in the time of harvest. For fear of the sword of the oppressor everyone shall return to his people, and everyone shall flee to his own land." 
Jeremiah50:17 Israel is a hunted and scattered sheep [driven hither and thither and preyed upon by savage beasts]; the lions have chased him. First the king of Assyria devoured him, and now at last Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon has broken and gnawed his bones." 
Jeremiah50:18 Therefore thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will visit and punish the king of Babylon and his land, just as I visited and punished the king of Assyria." 
Jeremiah50:19 And I will bring Israel [home] again to his fold and pasturage, and he will feed on Carmel and Bashan [in the most fertile districts both west and east], and his soul will be satisfied upon the hills of Ephraim and Gilead." 
Jeremiah50:20 In those days and at that time, says the Lord, the iniquity of Israel will be sought, but there will be none, and the sins of Judah [will be sought], but none will be found, for I will pardon those whom I cause to remain as a remnant (the preserved ones who come forth after a long tribulation). [Isa. 1:9; 43:25; Jer. 31:34; 33:8; Rom. 9:27.]" 
Jeremiah50:21 Go up against [Babylon] the land of Merathaim [two rebellions, double or intense defiance], even against it and against the inhabitants of Pekod [visitation and punishment]. Slay and utterly destroy them, says the Lord, and do according to all that I have commanded you." 
Jeremiah50:22 The cry and noise of battle is in the land, and [the noise] of great destruction." 
Jeremiah50:23 How the hammer of the whole earth is crushed and broken! How Babylon has become a horror of desolation among the nations! 
Jeremiah50:24 I set a trap for you, and you also were taken, O Babylon, and you did not know it; you were found and also caught because you have struggled and contended against the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:25 The Lord has opened His armory and has brought forth [the nations who unknowingly are] the weapons of His indignation and wrath, for the Lord God of hosts has work to do in the land of the Chaldeans." 
Jeremiah50:26 Come against her from every quarter and from the utmost border. Open her granaries and storehouses; pile up [their contents] like heaps of rubbish. Burn and destroy her utterly; let nothing be left of her. 
Jeremiah50:27 Slay all her bullocks (her choice youths, the strength of her army); let them go down to the slaughter! Woe to [the Chaldeans]! For their day has come, the time of their visitation (their inspection and punishment)." 
Jeremiah50:28 Listen! The voice of those [Jews] who flee and escape out of the land of Babylon proclaiming in Zion the vengeance of the Lord our God, the vengeance [of the Lord upon the Chaldeans] for [the plundering and destruction of] His temple." 
Jeremiah50:29 Call together [many] archers against Babylon, all those who bend the bow. Encamp against her round about; let none from there escape. Recompense her according to her deeds; just as she has done, do to her. For against the Lord, against the Holy One of Israel, has she been proudly defiant and presumptuous." 
Jeremiah50:30 Therefore shall her young men fall in her streets and squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed on that day, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:31 Behold, I am against you, O Babylon [you who are pride and presumption personified], says the Lord, the Lord of hosts, for your day has come, the time when I will visit and punish you." 
Jeremiah50:32 And Pride (the arrogant one) shall stumble (totter) and fall, and none shall raise him up. And I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all who are round about him." 
Jeremiah50:33 Thus says the Lord of hosts: The children of Israel and the children of Judah are oppressed together; all who took them captive have held them fast; they refuse to let them go. 
Jeremiah50:34 Their Redeemer is strong; the Lord of hosts is His name. He will surely and thoroughly plead their case and defend their cause, that He may give rest to [the land of Israel and to the Babylonian-enslaved nations of] the earth, but unrest to the inhabitants of Babylon." 
Jeremiah50:35 A sword upon the Chaldeans, says the Lord,upon the inhabitants of Babylon and upon her princes (rulers in civic matters) and upon her wise men (the astrologers and rulers in religious affairs)!" 
Jeremiah50:36 A sword upon the babbling liars (the diviners), that they may become fools! A sword upon her mighty warriors, that they may be dismayed and destroyed!" 
Jeremiah50:37 A sword upon their horses and upon their chariots and upon all the mixed foreign troops that are in the midst of her, that they may become [as weak and defenseless as] women! A sword upon her treasures, that they may be plundered!" 
Jeremiah50:38 A sword and a drought upon her waters, that they may be dried up! For it is a land of images, and they are mad over idols (objects of terror in which they foolishly trust)." 
Jeremiah50:39 Therefore wild beasts of the desert shall dwell [in Babylon] with the jackals, and ostriches shall dwell there. And it shall never again be inhabited with people, even from generation to generation. [Isa. 13:20-22.]" 
Jeremiah50:40 As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring cities, says the Lord, so no man shall dwell there; neither shall any son of man live there temporarily. [Jer. 49:18.]" 
Jeremiah50:41 Behold, a people is coming from the north; and a great nation and many kings are stirring from the uttermost parts of the earth." 
Jeremiah50:42 They lay hold of bow, lance, and spear; they are cruel and have no mercy or compassion. They sound like the roaring of the sea; they ride upon horses, every man equipped like a man [ready] for the battle against you, O Daughter of Babylon!" 
Jeremiah50:43 The king of Babylon has heard the news about them, and his hands fall feeble and helpless; anguish has seized him, and pangs like that of a woman in childbirth." 
Jeremiah50:44 See, there comes up one like a lion from the jungles (the pride) of the Jordan against the strong habitation [of Babylon] and into the permanent pasturage and sheepfold; for in a twinkling I will drive him [Babylon] from there. And I will appoint over him the one whom I choose. For who is like Me? And who will challenge Me and prosecute Me for this proceeding? And what [earthly, national] shepherd can stand before Me and defy Me? [Jer. 49:19.]" 
Jeremiah50:45 Therefore hear the plan of the Lord which He has made against Babylon, and His purposes which He has formed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely they shall be dragged away, even the little ones of the flock; surely He shall make their habitation desolate because of them and their fold amazed and appalled at their fate." 
Jeremiah50:46 At the cry, Babylon has been taken! the earth shall tremble, and the cry shall be heard among the nations." 
Jeremiah51:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: Behold, I will raise up against Babylon and against those who dwell among those rebelling against Me a destroying wind and spirit;" 
Jeremiah51:2 And I will send to Babylon strangers or winnowers who will winnow her and will empty her land; for in the day of calamity they will be against her on every side. 
Jeremiah51:3 Against him who bends let the archer bend his bow, and against him who lifts himself up in his coat of mail. And spare not her young men; devote [to God] and utterly destroy her entire host." 
Jeremiah51:4 Thus they shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and wounded in her streets." 
Jeremiah51:5 For Israel has not been widowed and forsaken, nor has Judah, by his God, the Lord of hosts, though their land is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel." 
Jeremiah51:6 Flee out of the midst of Babylon! Let every man save his life! Let not destruction come upon you through her [punishment for] sin and guilt. For it is the time of the Lord's vengeance; He will render to her a recompense. [Jer. 50:28; II Cor. 6:17; Rev. 18:4.] 
Jeremiah51:7 Babylon was a golden cup in the Lord's hand, making all the earth drunken. The nations drank of her wine; therefore the nations have gone mad. [Rev. 14:8; 17:4.]" 
Jeremiah51:8 Babylon has suddenly fallen and is shattered (destroyed)! Wail for her [if you care to]! Get balm for her [incurable] pain; if [you do] so she may [possibly] be healed! [Jer. 25:15; Rev. 14:8-10; 16:19; 18:2, 3.]" 
Jeremiah51:9 We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed. Forsake her and let us each go to his own country, for her guilt and the judgment against her reach to heaven and are lifted even to the skies. [Gen. 18:20, 21.]" 
Jeremiah51:10 The Lord has brought forth and made known the righteousness [of our cause]; come and let us declare in Zion the work of the Lord our God. 
Jeremiah51:11 Make clean and sharp the arrows, take up the shields or coats of armor [and cover your bodies with them]! The Lord has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes [who with the Persians will destroy the Babylonian Empire], for His purpose concerning Babylon is to destroy it; for that is the vengeance of the Lord, the vengeance [upon Babylon for the plundering and destruction] of His temple." 
Jeremiah51:12 Set up a standard or signal [to spread the news] upon the walls of Babylon! Make the watch and blockade strong, set the guards, prepare the ambushes! For the Lord has both purposed and done that which He spoke against the inhabitants of Babylon." 
Jeremiah51:13 O [Babylon] you who dwell by many waters, rich in treasures, your end has come, and the line measuring your life is cut. [Rev. 17:1-6.]" 
Jeremiah51:14 The Lord of hosts has sworn by Himself, saying, Surely I will fill you with men, as with [a swarm of] locusts [who strip a land clean], and they will lift up a song and shout [of victory] over you." 
Jeremiah51:15 He made the earth by His power; He established the world by His wisdom and stretched out the heavens by His understanding. 
Jeremiah51:16 When He utters His voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth. He makes lightnings for the rain and brings forth the wind from His treasuries." 
Jeremiah51:17 Every man has become stupid and brutelike, without knowledge [of God]; every goldsmith is put to shame by the images he has made; for his molten idols are a lie, and there is no breath [of life] in them." 
Jeremiah51:18 They are worthless (emptiness, falsity, futility), a work of delusion and worthy of derision; in the time of their inspection and punishment they shall [helplessly] perish." 
Jeremiah51:19 Not like these [gods] is He Who is the Portion of Jacob [the true God on Whom Israel has a claim], for He is the One Who formed all things, and Israel is the tribe of His inheritance,the Lord of hosts is His name. [Jer. 10:12-16.]" 
Jeremiah51:20 You [Cyrus of Persia, soon to conquer Babylon] are My battle-ax or maul and weapon of war,for with you I break nations in pieces, with you I destroy kingdoms," 
Jeremiah51:21 With you I break in pieces the horse and his rider, with you I break in pieces the chariot and the charioteer," 
Jeremiah51:22 With you I break in pieces man and woman, with you I break in pieces old man and youth, with you I break in pieces young man and maiden," 
Jeremiah51:23 With you I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock, with you I break in pieces the farmer and his yoke of oxen, and with you I break in pieces governors and commanders." 
Jeremiah51:24 And I will [completely] repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the evil that they have done in Zion,before your very eyes [I will do it], says the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:25 Behold, I am against you, says the Lord, O destroying mountain [which is burning out, you who will be as barren and desolate as an extinct volcano], you who [would] destroy the whole earth. I will stretch out My hand over and against you and roll you down from the [burnt] crags and will make you a burnt-out mountain [of combustive fires]." 
Jeremiah51:26 And [O Babylon] they shall not take your cracked stones for a cornerstone, or any stone for foundations, but you shall be waste and desolate forever, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:27 Set up a standard or signal in the land [to spread the news]! Blow the trumpet among the nations! Prepare and dedicate the nations for war against her; call against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz. Appoint a marshal against her; cause the horses to come up like [a swarm of] locusts [when their wings are not yet released from their horny cases]." 
Jeremiah51:28 Prepare and dedicate the nations for war against her,the kings of Media, with their governors and commanders (deputies), and every land of their dominion." 
Jeremiah51:29 [I foresee this:] The land trembles and writhes in pain and sorrow, for the purposes of the Lord against Babylon stand,to make the land of Babylon a desolation without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah51:30 The mighty warriors of Babylon have ceased to fight; they have remained in their holds. Their might has failed; they have become [weak and helpless] like women. Her dwelling places are burned up; her bars [and defenses generally] are broken. 
Jeremiah51:31 One post shall run to meet another and one messenger to meet another to show the king of Babylon that his city is taken on every side and to its farthest end," 
Jeremiah51:32 And that the passages [or ferries across the Euphrates] are stopped, and the great marshes they [the Medes] have burned with fire, and the men of war are frightened." 
Jeremiah51:33 For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: The Daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time it is [being prepared]; yet a little while and the time of harvest shall come to her." 
Jeremiah51:34 [The inhabitants of Zion say] Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon has devoured us, he has crushed us, he has made us an empty vessel. Like a monster he has swallowed us up, he has filled his belly with our delicacies; he has rinsed us out and cast us away." 
Jeremiah51:35 May the violence done to me and to my flesh and blood be upon Babylon, will the inhabitant of Zion say; and, May my blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea, will Jerusalem say." 
Jeremiah51:36 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, I will plead your cause and take vengeance for you. I will dry up her lake or great reservoir and make her fountain dry." 
Jeremiah51:37 And Babylon shall become heaps [of ruins], a dwelling place of jackals, a horror (an astonishing desolation) and a hissing [of amazement], without inhabitant." 
Jeremiah51:38 They [the Chaldean lords] shall be roaring together [before their sudden capture] like young lions [over their prey], they [the princes] shall be growling like lions' whelps." 
Jeremiah51:39 When the revelers are inflamed [with wine and lust during their drinking bouts], I will prepare them a feast [of My wrath] and make them drunk, that they may rejoice and fall asleep to a perpetual sleep and not waken, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:40 I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams together with he-goats." 
Jeremiah51:41 How Sheshach [Babylon] is taken! And the praise of the whole earth is surprised and seized! How Babylon has become an astonishing desolation and a horror among the nations! 
Jeremiah51:42 The sea has come up upon Babylon; she is covered with the tumult and multitude of its waves. 
Jeremiah51:43 Her cities have become a desolation and a horror, a land of drought and a wilderness, a land in which no one lives, nor does any son of man pass through it." 
Jeremiah51:44 And I will punish and execute judgment upon Bel [the god] in Babylon and take out of his mouth what he has swallowed up [the sacred vessels and the people of Judah and elsewhere who were taken captive]. The nations will not flow any more to him. Yes, the wall of Babylon has fallen!" 
Jeremiah51:45 My people, come out of the midst of her! And let every man save his life from the fierce anger of the Lord! [Jer. 50:8; II Cor. 6:17; Rev. 18:4.]" 
Jeremiah51:46 And beware, lest your heart faint and you be afraid at the report (rumor) heard in the land; for in one year shall one report come and in another year another report, and violence shall be in the land, ruler against ruler." 
Jeremiah51:47 Therefore behold, the days will come when I will execute judgment and punishment upon the idols of Babylon; her whole land will be confounded and put to shame, and all her slain will fall in the midst of her." 
Jeremiah51:48 Then heaven and earth and all that is in them shall sing for joy over Babylon, for the [Median] destroyers shall come against her from the north, says the Lord. [Isa. 44:23; Jer. 51:11; Rev. 12:12; 18:20.]" 
Jeremiah51:49 As Babylon caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at Babylon shall fall the slain of all [her] land." 
Jeremiah51:50 You who have escaped the sword, go away, stand not still! [Seriously and earnestly] remember the Lord from afar [Babylon], and let [desolate] Jerusalem come into your mind." 
Jeremiah51:51 We are confounded and ashamed, for we have heard reproach; confusion and shame have covered our faces, for strangers have come into the [most] sacred parts of the sanctuary of the Lord [even those forbidden for entrance by all but the high priest or the appointed priests]." 
Jeremiah51:52 Therefore behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will execute judgment upon [Babylon's] idols and images, and throughout all her land the wounded will groan." 
Jeremiah51:53 Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify her strong height (her lofty stronghold), yet destroyers will come upon her from Me, says the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:54 The sound of a cry [comes] from Babylon, and [the sound of] great destruction and ruin from the land of the Chaldeans!" 
Jeremiah51:55 For the Lord is destroying Babylon and laying her waste and stilling her great voice [the hum of the city's life]. And the waves [of her conquerors] roar like great waters, the noise of their voices is raised up [like the tramping of an army]." 
Jeremiah51:56 For the destroyer is coming upon her, upon Babylon; and her mighty warriors are taken, their bows are broken in pieces; for the Lord is a God of recompense; He will surely requite." 
Jeremiah51:57 And I will make drunk her princes and her wise men, her governors and her commanders (deputies) and her mighty warriors; and they will sleep a perpetual sleep and not waken, says the King,the Lord of hosts is His name." 
Jeremiah51:58 Thus says the Lord of hosts: The broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly overthrown and [the foundations] made bare, and her high gates shall be burned with fire; the peoples shall labor in vain, and the nations [only] to satisfy the fire, and they shall be weary. [Hab. 2:13.]" 
Jeremiah51:59 The word that Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah king of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. Now this Seraiah was chief chamberlain or quartermaster [and brother of Baruch]." 
Jeremiah51:60 So Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that would come upon Babylon,even all these words that are written against Babylon. 
Jeremiah51:61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When you come to Babylon, see to it that you read all these words." 
Jeremiah51:62 Then say, O Lord, You have spoken concerning this place that it shall be cut off, so that nothing shall remain and dwell in it, neither man nor beast; but it shall be desolate forever." 
Jeremiah51:63 And it shall be that when you have finished reading this book, you shall bind a stone to it and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates." 
Jeremiah51:64 Then say, Thus will Babylon sink and not rise because of the evil that I will bring upon her; and [the Babylonians] will be weary (hopelessly exhausted). Thus far are the words of Jeremiah. [Rev. 18:21.]" 
Jeremiah52:1 ZEDEKIAH WAS twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah [not the prophet] of Libnah. [II Kings 24:18-25:21.]" 
Jeremiah52:2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all that Jehoiakim had done." 
Jeremiah52:3 For all this came to pass in Jerusalem and Judah because of the anger of the Lord, and [in the end] He cast them out from His presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:4 And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem; and they pitched against it and built moveable towers and siege mounds against it round about. [Jer. 39:1-10.]" 
Jeremiah52:5 So the city was besieged until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. [II Chron. 36:11-13.] 
Jeremiah52:6 And in the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, the famine was so severe in the city that there was no bread for the people of the land." 
Jeremiah52:7 Then the city [wall] was broken through, so that all the men of war might flee, and they went forth out of the city by night [as Ezekiel had foretold] by way of the gate between the two walls by the king's garden, though the Chaldeans were round about the city. And they [the Jewish soldiers fled] by way of the Arabah (the Jordan Valley). [Ezek. 12:12.]" 
Jeremiah52:7 Then the city [wall] was broken through, so that all the men of war might flee, and they went forth out of the city by night [as Ezekiel had foretold] by way of the gate between the two walls by the king's garden, though the Chaldeans were round about the city. And they [the Jewish soldiers fled] by way of the Arabah (the Jordan Valley). [Ezek. 12:12.]" 
Jeremiah52:8 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him. 
Jeremiah52:9 Then they seized the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the [Syrian] land of Hamath [on the northern border of Israel], where he pronounced sentence upon him." 
Jeremiah52:10 And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes; he slew also all the princes of Judah at Riblah. 
Jeremiah52:11 Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah; and the king of Babylon bound him with shackles and carried him to Babylon and put him in prison [mill] till the day of his death. [Ezek. 12:13.] 
Jeremiah52:12 Now in the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, which was the nineteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, there came to Jerusalem Nebuzaradan captain of the guard, who stood and served before the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:13 And he burned the house of the Lord and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he consumed with fire. 
Jeremiah52:14 And all the army of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the guard broke down all the walls round about Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah52:15 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive some of the poorest of the people and those who were left in the city [at the time it was captured], along with those who went out to the king of Babylon [during the siege] and the remnant of the multitude [the country's working people]." 
Jeremiah52:16 But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and tillers of the soil. 
Jeremiah52:17 Also the pillars of bronze that belonged to the house of the Lord, and the bronze bases or pedestals [which supported the ten basins] and the bronze Sea or huge laver that were in the house of the Lord, the Chaldeans broke into pieces and carried all the bronze of them to Babylon." 
Jeremiah52:18 The pots [for carrying away ashes] also and the shovels and the snuffers and the bowls and the spoons and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service they took away. 
Jeremiah52:19 Also the small bowls and the firepans and the basins and the pots and the lampstands and the incense cups and the bowls for the drink offerings,whatever was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and whatever was of silver as silver." 
Jeremiah52:20 The two pillars, one Sea or huge laver, and twelve bronze bulls or oxen under the Sea, which King Solomon had made in the house of the Lord,the bronze of all these things was beyond weighing." 
Jeremiah52:21 Concerning the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits (twenty-seven feet), and an ornamental molding of twelve cubits (eighteen feet) went around its circumference; it was four fingers thick, and it [the pillar] was hollow." 
Jeremiah52:22 An upper part or capital of bronze was on top of it. The height of one capital was five cubits (seven and one-half feet), with a network and pomegranates around it, all of bronze. The second pillar also, with its pomegranates, was similar to these." 
Jeremiah52:23 And there were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; and all the pomegranates upon the network were a hundred round about. 
Jeremiah52:24 And the captain of the guard took [as prisoners] Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest and the three keepers of the door. 
Jeremiah52:24 And the captain of the guard took [as prisoners] Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest and the three keepers of the door. 
Jeremiah52:25 He took also out of the city a court officer who had been overseer of the soldiers, and seven men of them who were next to the king [as advisers] and saw his face, who were found in the city, and the scribe of the prince or captain of the army who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the midst of the city." 
Jeremiah52:26 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
Jeremiah52:27 And the king of Babylon smote them and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. Thus Judah was carried away captive out of his own land. 
Jeremiah52:28 This is the number of people whom Nebuchadrezzar carried away captive: in the seventh year, 3,023 Jews;" 
Jeremiah52:29 In the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar, he carried away captive from Jerusalem 832 persons;" 
Jeremiah52:30 In the twenty-third year of Nebuchadrezzar, Nebuzaradan the captain of the [Babylonian] guard carried away captive of the Jews 745 persons. All the persons were 4,600." 
Jeremiah52:31 And in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin [also called Coniah and Jeconiah] king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-fifth day of the month, Evil-merodach king of Babylon in the first year of his reign lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah [and showed favor to him] and brought him out of prison. [II Kings 25:27-30.]" 
Jeremiah52:32 He spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were [captives] with him in Babylon," 
Jeremiah52:33 Jehoiachin put off his prison garments, and he dined regularly at the king's table all the days of his life." 
Jeremiah52:34 And his allowance, a continual one, was given him by the king of Babylon, a portion according to his requirements until the day of his death, all the days of his life." 
Lamentations1:1 HOW SOLITARY and lonely sits the city [Jerusalem] that was [once] full of people! How like a widow has she become! She who was great among the nations and princess among the provinces has become a tributary [in servitude]! 
Lamentations1:2 She weeps bitterly in the night, and her tears are [constantly] on her cheeks. Among all her lovers (allies) she has no one to comfort her. All her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they have become her enemies. [Jer. 3:1; 4:30.]" 
Lamentations1:3 Judah has gone into exile [to escape] from the affliction and laborious servitude [of the homeland]. She dwells among the [heathen] nations, but she finds no rest; all her persecutors overtook her amid the [dire] straits [of her distress]." 
Lamentations1:4 The roads to Zion mourn, because no one comes to the solemn assembly or the appointed feasts. All her gates are desolate, her priests sigh and groan, her maidens are grieved and vexed, and she herself is in bitterness." 
Lamentations1:5 Her adversaries have become the head; her enemies prosper. For the Lord has afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions; her young children have gone into captivity before the enemy. [Jer. 30:14, 15; 52:28; Dan. 9:7-14.]" 
Lamentations1:6 From the Daughter of Zion all her beauty and majesty have departed. Her princes have become like harts that find no pasture; they have fled without strength before the pursuer. 
Lamentations1:7 Jerusalem [earnestly] remembers in the days of her affliction, in the days of her [compulsory] wanderings and her bitterness, all the pleasant and precious things that she had from the days of old. When her people fell into and at the hands of the adversary, and there was none to help her, the enemy [gloated as they] looked at her, and they mocked at her desolations and downfall." 
Lamentations1:8 Jerusalem has grievously sinned; therefore she has become an unclean thing and has been removed. All who honored her despise her, because they have seen her nakedness; yes, she herself groans and sighs and turns [her face] away." 
Lamentations1:9 Her filthiness was in and on her skirts; she did not [seriously and earnestly] consider her final end. Therefore she has come down [from throne to slavery] singularly and astonishingly; she has no comforter. O Lord [cries Jerusalem], look at my affliction, for the enemy has magnified himself [in triumph]!" 
Lamentations1:10 The adversary has spread out his hand upon all her precious and desirable things; for she has seen the nations enter her sanctuary [of the temple],when You commanded that they should not even enter Your congregation [in the outer courts]. [Deut. 23:3; Jer. 51:51; Ezek. 44:7, 9.]" 
Lamentations1:11 All her people groan and sigh, seeking for bread; they have given their desirable and precious things [in exchange] for food to revive their strength and bring back life. See, O Lord, and consider how wretched and lightly esteemed, how vile and abominable, I have become!" 
Lamentations1:12 Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow which was dealt out to me, with which the Lord has afflicted me in the day of His fierce anger!" 
Lamentations1:13 From above He has sent fire into my bones, and it prevailed against them. He has spread a net for my feet; He has turned me back. He has made me hopelessly miserable and faint all the day long." 
Lamentations1:14 The yoke of my transgressions is bound by His hand; they were twined together; they were set upon my neck. He has made my strength fail and [me to] stumble; the Lord has delivered me into the hands of those I am unable to resist or withstand. [Deut. 28:48.] 
Lamentations1:15 The Lord has made of no account all my [Jerusalem's] mighty men in the midst of me; He has proclaimed a set time against me to crush my young men. The Lord has trodden as in a winepress the Virgin Daughter of Judah. 
Lamentations1:16 For these things I weep; my eyes overflow with tears, because a comforter, one who could refresh and restore my soul, is far from me. My children are desolate and perishing, for the enemy has prevailed. [Lam. 1:21.]" 
Lamentations1:17 Zion stretches forth her hands, but there is no comforter for her. The Lord has commanded concerning and against Jacob that his neighbors should be his adversaries; Jerusalem has become a filthy thing among them [an object of contempt]." 
Lamentations1:18 The Lord is righteous (just and in the right); for I have rebelled against His commandment (His word). Hear, I pray you, all you peoples, and look at my sorrow and suffering; my maidens and my young men have gone into captivity." 
Lamentations1:19 I [Jerusalem] called to my lovers [allies], but they deceived me. My priests and my elders expired in the city while they sought food to save their lives." 
Lamentations1:20 Behold, O Lord, how distressed I am! My vital parts (emotions) are in tumult and are deeply disturbed; my heart cannot rest and is violently agitated within me, for I have grievously rebelled. Outside the house the sword bereaves, at home there is [famine, pestilence] death!" 
Lamentations1:21 [My foes] have heard that I [Jerusalem] sigh and groan, that I have no comforter [in You]. All my enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad [O Lord] that You have done it. You will bring the day [of Judah's punishment] that you have foretold and proclaimed; [it involves also my foes' punishment] and they will become like me. [Isa. 14:5, 6; Jer. 30:16.]" 
Lamentations1:22 Let all their wickedness come before You; and deal with them as You have dealt with me because of all my transgressions; for my sighs and groans are many and my heart is faint. 
Lamentations2:1 HOW THE Lord has covered the Daughter of Zion with a cloud in His anger! He has cast down from heaven to the earth the beauty and splendor of Israel and has not [earnestly] remembered His footstool in the day of His anger! 
Lamentations2:2 The Lord has swallowed up all the country places and habitations of Jacob and has spared not nor pitied; He has demolished in His wrath the strongholds of the Daughter of Judah. He has cast down to the ground the kingdom and its rulers, polluting them and depriving them of their sanctity." 
Lamentations2:3 He has broken off in His fierce anger every horn (means of defense) of Israel. He has drawn back His right hand from before the enemy. And He has burned amidst Jacob like a flaming fire consuming all around. 
Lamentations2:4 He has bent His bow like an enemy; He has stood with His right hand set like a foe and has slain all the delights and pride of the eye; on and in the tent of the Daughter of Zion He has poured out His wrath like fire. 
Lamentations2:5 The Lord has become like an enemy; He has destroyed Israel. He has destroyed all its palaces, has laid in ruins its strongholds, and has multiplied in the Daughter of Judah groaning and moaning and lamentation." 
Lamentations2:6 And He has violently broken down His temple like a booth or hedge of a garden; He has destroyed the place of His appointed assembly. The Lord has caused the solemn appointed feasts and Sabbaths to be forgotten in Zion and has spurned and rejected in the indignation of His anger the king and the priest. 
Lamentations2:7 The Lord has scorned, rejected, and cast off His altar; He has abhorred and disowned His sanctuary. He has given into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces [and high buildings]; they have raised a clamor in the house of the Lord as on a day of a solemn appointed feast." 
Lamentations2:8 The Lord purposed to lay in ruins the [city] wall of the Daughter of Zion. He marked it off by measuring line; He restrained not His hand from destroying. He made rampart and wall lament; they languished together. 
Lamentations2:9 Her gates have sunk into the ground; He has destroyed and broken her bars. Her king and her princes are [exiled] among the nations; the law is no more; her prophets also obtain no vision from the Lord. 
Lamentations2:10 The elders of the Daughter of Zion sit on the ground keeping silent; they have cast dust on their heads, they have girded themselves with sackcloth. The maidens of Jerusalem have bowed their heads to the ground [says Jeremiah]." 
Lamentations2:10 The elders of the Daughter of Zion sit on the ground keeping silent; they have cast dust on their heads, they have girded themselves with sackcloth. The maidens of Jerusalem have bowed their heads to the ground [says Jeremiah]." 
Lamentations2:11 My eyes fail from weeping, my emotions are deeply disturbed, my heart is poured out upon the ground [in grief] because of the destruction of the daughter of my people, because infants and nurslings faint in the streets of the city." 
Lamentations2:12 They keep crying to their mothers, Where is corn and wine [food and drink]? as they faint like wounded men in the streets of the city, as their lives ebb away on their mothers' bosom." 
Lamentations2:13 What [example of suffering in the past] is sufficient for me to remind you for your [comfort]? To what shall I liken you, O Daughter of Jerusalem? With what shall I compare you, that I may comfort you, O Virgin Daughter of Zion? For your ruin is as measureless as the sea! Who can heal you? [Lam. 1:12; Dan. 9:12.]" 
Lamentations2:14 Your prophets have predicted for you falsehood and delusion and foolish things; and they have not exposed your iniquity and guilt to avert your captivity [by causing you to repent]. But they have divined and declared to you false and deceptive prophecies, worthless and misleading." 
Lamentations2:15 All who pass by clap their hands at you; they hiss and wag their heads at the Daughter of Jerusalem, saying, Is this the city which was called the perfection of beauty, the joy of all the earth?" 
Lamentations2:16 All your enemies have opened wide their mouths against you; they scornfully hiss and gnash their teeth. They cry, We have swallowed her up! Certainly this is the day we have looked for; we have it, we see it!" 
Lamentations2:17 The Lord has done what He planned; He has carried out and finished His word which He threatened and decreed in the days of old. He has demolished without pity; He has made the enemy rejoice over you and has exalted the might of your foes. [Lev. 26:14-39; Deut. 28:15-68.] 
Lamentations2:18 The hearts [of the inhabitants of Jerusalem] cried to the Lord. [Then to the congregation, I, Jeremiah, cried, addressing the wall as its symbol] O wall of the Daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night; give yourself no rest, let not your eyes stop [shedding tears]." 
Lamentations2:18 The hearts [of the inhabitants of Jerusalem] cried to the Lord. [Then to the congregation, I, Jeremiah, cried, addressing the wall as its symbol] O wall of the Daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night; give yourself no rest, let not your eyes stop [shedding tears]." 
Lamentations2:19 Arise [from your bed], cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches; pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift up your hands toward Him for the lives of your young children, who faint from hunger at the head of every street. [Ps. 62:8.]" 
Lamentations2:20 Behold, O Lord, and consider [carefully] to whom You have done this. Should and shall women eat the fruit of their own bodies, the children whom they have tended and swaddled with their hands? Should and shall priest and prophet be slain in the place set apart [for the worship] of the Lord?" 
Lamentations2:21 The young and the old lie on the ground in the streets; my maidens and my young men have fallen by the sword. You have slain them in the day of Your anger, slaughtering them without pity." 
Lamentations2:22 You [Lord] called together, as on an appointed feast day of solemn assembly, my terrors (dangers) from every side. And there was not one in the day of God's wrath who escaped or survived; those I have nursed and brought up, my enemy has destroyed." 
Lamentations3:1 I AM [Jeremiah] the man who has seen affliction under the rod of His wrath. 
Lamentations3:1 I AM [Jeremiah] the man who has seen affliction under the rod of His wrath. 
Lamentations3:2 He has led me and brought me into darkness and not light. 
Lamentations3:3 Surely He has turned away from me; His hand is against me all the day. 
Lamentations3:4 My flesh and my skin has He worn out and made old; He has shattered my bones. 
Lamentations3:5 He has built up [siege mounds] against me and surrounded me with bitterness, tribulation, and anguish." 
Lamentations3:6 He has caused me to dwell in dark places like those long dead. 
Lamentations3:7 He walled me in so that I cannot get out; He has weighted down my chain. 
Lamentations3:8 Even when I cry and shout for help, He shuts out my prayer." 
Lamentations3:9 He has enclosed my ways with hewn stone; He has made my paths crooked. 
Lamentations3:10 He is to me like a bear lying in wait, and like a lion [hiding] in secret places." 
Lamentations3:11 He has turned me off my ways and pulled me in pieces; He has made me desolate. 
Lamentations3:12 He has bent His bow and set me as a mark for the arrow. 
Lamentations3:13 He has caused the arrows of His quiver to enter into my heart [the seat of my affections and desires]. 
Lamentations3:14 I have become a derision to all my people, and [the subject of] their singsong all the day." 
Lamentations3:15 He has filled me with bitterness; He has made me drink to excess and until drunken with wormwood [bitterness]. 
Lamentations3:16 He has also broken my teeth with gravel (stones); He has covered me with ashes. 
Lamentations3:17 And You have bereaved my soul and cast it off far from peace; I have forgotten what good and happiness are. 
Lamentations3:18 And I say, Perished is my strength and my expectation from the Lord." 
Lamentations3:19 [O Lord] remember [earnestly] my affliction and my misery, my wandering and my outcast state, the wormwood and the gall." 
Lamentations3:20 My soul has them continually in remembrance and is bowed down within me. 
Lamentations3:21 But this I recall and therefore have I hope and expectation: 
Lamentations3:22 It is because of the Lord's mercy and loving-kindness that we are not consumed, because His [tender] compassions fail not. [Mal. 3:6.]" 
Lamentations3:23 They are new every morning; great and abundant is Your stability and faithfulness. [Isa. 33:2.] 
Lamentations3:24 The Lord is my portion or share, says my living being (my inner self); therefore will I hope in Him and wait expectantly for Him. [Num. 18:20.]" 
Lamentations3:25 The Lord is good to those who wait hopefully and expectantly for Him, to those who seek Him [inquire of and for Him and require Him by right of necessity and on the authority of God's word]." 
Lamentations3:26 It is good that one should hope in and wait quietly for the salvation (the safety and ease) of the Lord. 
Lamentations3:27 It is good for a man that he should bear the yoke [of divine disciplinary dealings] in his youth. 
Lamentations3:28 Let him sit alone uncomplaining and keeping silent [in hope], because [God] has laid [the yoke] upon him [for his benefit]. [Rom. 8:28.]" 
Lamentations3:29 Let him put his mouth in the dust [in abject recognition of his unworthiness],there may yet be hope. [Mic. 7:17.] 
Lamentations3:30 Let him give his cheek to the One Who smites him [even through His human agents]; let him be filled [full] with [men's] reproach [in meekness]. 
Lamentations3:31 For the Lord will not cast off forever! [Ps. 94:14.] 
Lamentations3:32 But though He causes grief, yet will He be moved to compassion according to the multitude of His loving-kindness and tender mercy." 
Lamentations3:33 For He does not willingly and from His heart afflict or grieve the children of men. [Ezek. 18:23, 32; Hos. 11:8; Heb. 12:5-10; II Pet. 3:9.]" 
Lamentations3:34 To trample and crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth," 
Lamentations3:35 To turn aside and deprive a man of his rights before the face of the Most High or a superior [acting as God's representative]," 
Lamentations3:36 To subvert a man in his cause,[of these things] the Lord does not approve. 
Lamentations3:37 Who is he who speaks and it comes to pass, if the Lord has not authorized and commanded it?" 
Lamentations3:38 Is it not out of the mouth of the Most High that evil and good both proceed [adversity and prosperity, physical evil or misfortune and physical good or happiness]?" 
Lamentations3:39 Why does a living man sigh [one who is still in this life's school of discipline]? [And why does] a man complain for the punishment of his sins? 
Lamentations3:40 Let us test and examine our ways, and let us return to the Lord!" 
Lamentations3:41 Let us lift up our hearts and our hands [and then with them mount up in prayer] to God in heaven: 
Lamentations3:42 We have transgressed and rebelled and You have not pardoned. 
Lamentations3:43 You have covered Yourself with wrath and pursued and afflicted us; You have slain without pity. 
Lamentations3:44 You have covered Yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can pass through. 
Lamentations3:45 You have made us offscouring and refuse among the nations. 
Lamentations3:46 All our enemies have gaped at us and railed against us. 
Lamentations3:47 Fear and pitfall have come upon us, devastation and destruction." 
Lamentations3:48 My eyes overflow with streams of tears because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. 
Lamentations3:49 My eyes overflow continually and will not cease 
Lamentations3:50 Until the Lord looks down and sees from heaven. 
Lamentations3:51 My eyes cause me grief at the fate of all the maidens [and the daughter-towns] of my city [Jerusalem]. 
Lamentations3:52 I have been hunted down like a bird by those who were my enemies without cause. 
Lamentations3:53 They [thought they had] destroyed my life in the dungeon (pit) and cast a stone [over it] above me. [Jer. 38.] 
Lamentations3:54 The waters ran down on my head; I said, I am gone." 
Lamentations3:55 I called upon Your name, O Lord, out of the depths [of the mire] of the dungeon. [Jer. 38:6.]" 
Lamentations3:56 You heard my voice [then]: [Oh] hide not Your ear [now] at my prayer for relief. 
Lamentations3:57 You drew near on the day I called to You; You said, Fear not. [James 4:8.]" 
Lamentations3:58 O Lord, You have pleaded the causes of my soul [You have managed my affairs and You have protected my person and my rights]; You have rescued and redeemed my life!" 
Lamentations3:59 O Lord, You have seen my wrong [done to me]; judge and maintain my cause." 
Lamentations3:60 You have seen all their vengeance, all their devices against me." 
Lamentations3:61 You have heard their reproach and revilings, O Lord, and all their devices against me," 
Lamentations3:62 The lips and thoughts of my assailants are against me all day long. 
Lamentations3:63 Look at their sitting down and their rising up [their movements, doings, and secret counsels]; I am their singsong [the subject of their derision and merriment]. [Ps. 139:2; Isa. 37:28.]" 
Lamentations3:64 Render to them a recompense, O Lord, according to the work of their hands." 
Lamentations3:65 You will give them hardness and blindness of heart; Your curse will be upon them. 
Lamentations3:66 You will pursue and afflict them in anger and destroy them from under Your heavens, O Lord." 
Lamentations4:1 HOW THE gold has become dim! How the most pure gold has changed! The hallowed stones [of the temple] are poured out at the head of every street. 
Lamentations4:2 The noble and precious sons of Zion, [once] worth their weight in fine gold,how they are esteemed [merely] as earthen pots or pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter! [Isa. 30:14; Jer. 19:11; II Cor. 4:7.]" 
Lamentations4:3 Even the jackals draw out the breast, they give suck to their young ones, but the daughter of my people has become cruel like ostriches in the wilderness [that desert their young]." 
Lamentations4:4 The tongue of the nursing babe cleaves to the roof of its mouth because of thirst; the young children beg for food, but no one gives it to them." 
Lamentations4:5 Those who feasted on dainties are perishing in the streets; those who were brought up in purple lie cleaving to refuse and ash heaps. 
Lamentations4:6 For the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the punishment of the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown in a moment, and no hands had come against her or been laid on her. [Gen. 19:25.]" 
Lamentations4:7 [In physical appearance] her princes were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk; they were more ruddy in body than rubies or corals, their shapely figures [suggested a carefully cut] sapphire." 
Lamentations4:8 [Prolonged famine has made] them look blacker than soot and darkness; they are not recognized in the streets. Their skin clings to their bones; it is withered and it has become [dry] like a stick. 
Lamentations4:9 Those who are slain with the sword are more fortunate than those who are the victims of hunger [slain by the famine]; for they [the hungry] pine and ebb away, stricken through for want of the fruits of the field." 
Lamentations4:10 The hands of [heretofore] compassionate women have boiled their own children; they were their food during the destruction of the daughter of my people [Judah]. 
Lamentations4:11 The Lord has fulfilled His wrath; He has poured out His fierce anger and has kindled a fire in Zion that has consumed her foundations. 
Lamentations4:12 The kings of the earth did not believe, nor did any of the inhabitants of the earth, that the oppressor and enemy could enter the gates of Jerusalem." 
Lamentations4:13 [But this happened] because of the sins of her [false] prophets and the iniquities of her priests, who shed the blood of the just and righteous in the midst of her." 
Lamentations4:14 [The false prophets and priests] wandered [staggering] in the streets as if blind; they had so polluted themselves with blood it was not [lawful] for men to touch their garments. 
Lamentations4:15 [People] cried to them, Go away! Unclean! Depart! Depart! Touch not! When they fled away, then they wandered [as fugitives]; men said among the nations, They shall not stay here any longer." 
Lamentations4:16 The anger of the Lord has scattered [and divided them among the nations]; He will no longer look after them. They did not respect the persons of the priests; they did not favor the elders. 
Lamentations4:17 As for us, our eyes yet failed and wasted away in looking for our worthless help. In our watching [on our watchtower] we have watched and waited expectantly for a nation [Egypt or some other one to come to our rescue] that could not save us. [Ezek. 29:16.]" 
Lamentations4:18 [The missiles of the enemy] dog our steps, so that we cannot go into our streets; our end is near, our days are fulfilled,yes, our end has come." 
Lamentations4:19 Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the sky; they pursued us on the mountains, they lay in wait for us in the wilderness." 
Lamentations4:20 The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the Lord [our king], was taken in their snares,he of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the nations." 
Lamentations4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O Daughter of Edom, you who dwell in the land of Uz. But the cup [of the wine of God's wrath] also shall pass to you; you shall become drunk and make yourself naked. [Jer. 25:17.]" 
Lamentations4:22 The punishment of your iniquity will be accomplished and completed, O Daughter of Zion; [the Lord] will no more carry you away or keep you in exile. But He will inspect and punish your iniquity and guilt, O Daughter of Edom; He will uncover your sins. [Ps. 137:7.]" 
Lamentations5:1 O LORD, [earnestly] remember what has come upon us! Look down and see our reproach (our national disgrace)!" 
Lamentations5:2 Our inheritance has fallen over to strangers, our houses to foreigners." 
Lamentations5:3 We have become orphans and fatherless; our mothers are like widows. 
Lamentations5:4 We have had to pay money to drink the water that belongs to us; our [own] wood is sold to us. 
Lamentations5:5 Our pursuers are upon our necks [like a yoke]; we are weary and are allowed no rest. 
Lamentations5:6 We have given the hand [as a pledge of fidelity and submission] to the Egyptians and to the Assyrians [merely] to get food to satisfy [our hunger]. 
Lamentations5:7 Our fathers sinned and are no more, and we have borne their iniquities. [Isa. 65:7; Jer. 16:11-12; 31:29; Ezek. 18:2-4.]" 
Lamentations5:8 Servants and slaves rule over us; there is none to deliver us out of their hands. [Neh. 5:15.] 
Lamentations5:9 We get our bread at the peril of our lives because of the sword of the wilderness [the wild Arabs, who may attack if we venture into the fields to reap our harvests]." 
Lamentations5:10 Our skin glows and is parched as from [the heat of] an oven because of the burning heat of [the fever of] famine. 
Lamentations5:11 They ravished the women in Zion, the virgins in the cities of Judah." 
Lamentations5:12 They hung princes by their hands; the persons of elders were not respected. 
Lamentations5:13 Young men carried millstones, and boys fell [staggering] under [burdens of] wood." 
Lamentations5:14 The elders have ceased from [congregating at] the city's gate, the young men from their music." 
Lamentations5:15 Ceased is the joy of our hearts; our dancing has turned into mourning. 
Lamentations5:16 The crown has fallen from our head [our honor is brought to the dust]! Woe to us, for we have sinned!" 
Lamentations5:17 Because of this our hearts are faint and sick; because of these things our eyes are dim and see darkly. 
Lamentations5:18 As for Mount Zion, which lies desolate, the jackals prowl over it!" 
Lamentations5:19 But You, O Lord, remain and reign forever; Your throne endures from generation to [all] generations." 
Lamentations5:20 Why do You forget us forever? Why do You forsake us so long? 
Lamentations5:21 Turn us to Yourself, O Lord, and we shall be turned and restored! Renew our days as of old!," 
Lamentations5:22 Or have You utterly rejected us? Or are You exceedingly angry with us [still]? 
Ezekiel1:1 NOW [when I was] in [my] thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I was in the midst of captivity beside the river Chebar [in Babylonia], the heavens were opened and I saw visions of God." 
Ezekiel1:2 On the fifth day of the month, which was in the fifth year of King Jehoiachin's captivity," 
Ezekiel1:3 The word of the Lord came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of the Lord was there upon him. [I Kings 18:46; II Kings 3:15.]" 
Ezekiel1:4 As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud with a fire enveloping it and flashing continually; a brightness was about it and out of the midst of it there seemed to glow amber metal, out of the midst of the fire." 
Ezekiel1:5 And out of the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures [or cherubim]. And this was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man," 
Ezekiel1:6 But each one had four faces and each one had four wings. 
Ezekiel1:7 And their legs were straight legs, and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot, and they sparkled like burnished bronze." 
Ezekiel1:8 And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides. And the four of them had their faces and their wings thus: 
Ezekiel1:9 Their wings touched one another; they turned not when they went but went every one straight forward. 
Ezekiel1:10 As for the likeness of their faces, they each had the face of a man [in front], and each had the face of a lion on the right side and the face of an ox on the left side; the four also had the face of an eagle [at the back of their heads]. [Rev. 4:7.]" 
Ezekiel1:11 Such were their faces. And their wings were stretched out upward [each creature had four wings]; two wings of each one were touching the [adjacent] wing of the creatures on either side of it, and [the remaining] two wings of each creature covered its body." 
Ezekiel1:12 And they went every one straight forward; wherever the spirit would go, they went, and they turned not when they went." 
Ezekiel1:13 In the midst of the living creatures there was what looked like burning coals of fire, like torches moving to and fro among the living creatures; the fire was bright and out of the fire went forth lightning." 
Ezekiel1:14 And the living creatures darted back and forth like a flash of lightning. 
Ezekiel1:15 Now as I was still looking at the living creatures, I saw one wheel upon the ground beside each of the living creatures with its four faces." 
Ezekiel1:16 As to the appearance of the wheels and their construction: in appearance they gleamed like chrysolite; and the four were formed alike, and their construction work was as it were a wheel within a wheel." 
Ezekiel1:17 When they went, they went in one of their four directions without turning [for they were faced that way]." 
Ezekiel1:18 As for their rims, they were so high that they were dreadful, and the four had their rims full of eyes round about." 
Ezekiel1:19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up." 
Ezekiel1:20 Wherever the spirit went, the creatures went and the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit or life of the [four living creatures acting as one] living creature was in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:21 When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up high beside them, for the spirit or life of the [combined] living creature was in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:22 Over the head of the [combined] living creature there was the likeness of a firmament, looking like the terrible and awesome [dazzling of shining] crystal or ice stretched across the expanse of sky over their heads." 
Ezekiel1:23 And under the firmament their wings were stretched out straight, one toward another. Every living creature had two wings which covered its body on this side and two which covered it on that side." 
Ezekiel1:24 And when they went, I heard the sound of their wings like the noise of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, the sound of tumult like the noise of a host. When they stood, they let down their wings." 
Ezekiel1:25 And there was a voice above the firmament that was over their heads; when they stood, they let down their wings." 
Ezekiel1:26 And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne in appearance like a sapphire stone, and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with the appearance of a Man. [Phil. 2:5-8.]" 
Ezekiel1:27 From what had the appearance of His waist upward, I saw a lustre as it were glowing metal with the appearance of fire enclosed round about within it; and from the appearance of His waist downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness [of a halo] round about Him." 
Ezekiel1:28 Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face and I heard a voice of One speaking. [Rev. 4:3.]" 
Ezekiel2:1 AND HE said to me [Ezekiel], Son of man, stand upon your feet and I will speak to you." 
Ezekiel2:2 And the Spirit entered into me when He spoke to me and set me upon my feet, and I heard Him speaking to me." 
Ezekiel2:3 And He said to me, I send you, son of man, to the children of Israel, two rebellious nations that have rebelled against Me. They and their fathers have transgressed against Me even to this very day." 
Ezekiel2:4 And the children are impudent and hard of heart. I send you to them and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel2:5 And they, whether they will hear or refuse to hear,for they are a rebellious house,yet shall they know and realize that there has been a prophet among them." 
Ezekiel2:6 And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words; though briers and thorns are all around you and you dwell and sit among scorpions, be not afraid of their words nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel2:7 And you shall speak My words to them whether they will hear or refuse to hear, for they are most rebellious." 
Ezekiel2:8 As for you, son of man, hear what I say to you; be not rebellious like that rebellious house; open your mouth and eat what I give you." 
Ezekiel2:9 And when I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me and behold, a scroll of a book was in it." 
Ezekiel2:10 And He spread it before me and it was written within and on the back, and written on it were words of lamentation and mourning and woe." 
Ezekiel3:1 HE SAID to me, Son of man, eat what you find [in this book]; eat this scroll; then go and speak to the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel3:2 So I opened my mouth, and He caused me to eat the scroll." 
Ezekiel3:3 And He said to me, Son of man, eat this scroll that I give you and fill your stomach with it. Then I ate it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth." 
Ezekiel3:4 And He said to me, Son of man, go, get you to the house of Israel and speak to them with My words." 
Ezekiel3:5 For you are not sent to a people of a foreign speech and of a difficult language but to the house of Israel; 
Ezekiel3:6 Not to many peoples of foreign speech and of a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely, had I sent you to such people, they would have listened to you and heeded My words." 
Ezekiel3:7 But the house of Israel will not listen to you and obey you since they will not listen to Me and obey Me, for all the house of Israel are impudent and stubborn of heart." 
Ezekiel3:8 Behold, I have made your face strong and hard against their faces and your forehead strong and hard against their foreheads." 
Ezekiel3:9 Like an adamant harder than flint or a diamond point have I made your forehead; fear them not, neither be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house. [Isa. 50:7; Jer. 1:18; 15:20; Mic. 3:8.]" 
Ezekiel3:10 Moreover, He said to me, Son of man, all My words that I shall speak to you, receive in your heart and hear with your ears." 
Ezekiel3:11 And go, get you to the [Jewish] captives [in Babylon], to the children of your people, and speak to them and tell them, Thus says the Lord God, whether they will hear or refuse to hear." 
Ezekiel3:12 Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me a voice of a great rushing [saying], Blessed be the glory of the Lord from His place [above the firmament]." 
Ezekiel3:13 I heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures as they touched and joined each one the other [its sister wing], and I heard the noise of the wheels beside them and the noise of a great rushing." 
Ezekiel3:14 So the Spirit lifted me up and took me away [in the vision], and I went in bitterness [of discouragement] in the heat of my spirit; and the hand of the Lord was strong upon me." 
Ezekiel3:15 Then I came to them of the captivity at Tel-abib, who sat and dwelt by the river of Chebar, and I sat where they sat and remained there among them seven days, overwhelmed with astonishment and silent." 
Ezekiel3:16 And at the end of seven days, the word of the Lord came to me:" 
Ezekiel3:17 Son of man, I have made you a watchman to the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at My mouth and give them warning from Me. [Isa. 52:8; 56:10; 62:6; Jer. 6:17.]" 
Ezekiel3:18 If I say to the wicked, You shall surely die, and you do not give him warning or speak to warn the wicked to turn from his wicked way, to save his life, the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at your hand." 
Ezekiel3:19 Yet if you warn the wicked and he turn not from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity, but you have delivered yourself." 
Ezekiel3:20 Again, if a righteous man turns from his righteousness (right doing and right standing with God) and some gift or providence which I lay before him he perverts into an occasion to sin and he commits iniquity, he shall die; because you have not given him warning, he shall die in his sin and his righteous deeds which he has done shall not be remembered, but his blood will I require at your hand." 
Ezekiel3:21 Nevertheless if you warn the righteous man not to sin and he does not sin, he shall surely live because he is warned; also you have delivered yourself from guilt." 
Ezekiel3:22 And the hand of the Lord was there upon me, and He said to me, Arise, go forth into the plain and I will talk with you there." 
Ezekiel3:23 Then I arose and went forth into the plain, and behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, like the glory I had seen by the river Chebar, and I fell on my face." 
Ezekiel3:24 Then the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet; He spoke and said to me, Go, shut yourself up in your house." 
Ezekiel3:25 But you, O son of man, behold, ropes will be put upon you and you will be bound with them, and you cannot go out among people." 
Ezekiel3:26 And I will make your tongue cleave to the roof of your mouth so that you cannot talk and be a reprover of the people, for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel3:27 But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth and you shall say to the people, Thus says the Lord God; he who hears, let him hear, and he who refuses to hear, let him refuse; for they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel4:1 AND YOU, son of man, take a tile and lay it before you, and make upon it a drawing of a city, even Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel4:2 And put siege works against it, build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it and set battering rams against it round about." 
Ezekiel4:3 Moreover, take a plate of iron and place it for an iron wall between you and the city; and set your face toward it and it shall be besieged, and you shall press the siege against it. This is a sign to the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel4:4 Then [bound as you are] lie upon your left [and north] side to bear symbolically the iniquity of the house of the ten tribes of Israel upon that side. According to the number of days that you shall lie upon it you shall bear their iniquity. 
Ezekiel4:5 For I have laid upon you the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, 390 days [representing 390 years]; so you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel4:6 And when you have fulfilled the days for Israel, lie again, but on your right [and south] side, and you shall bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days. I have appointed you one day for each year." 
Ezekiel4:7 Therefore you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem and your arm shall be uncovered [ready for battle], and you shall prophesy against [the city]." 
Ezekiel4:8 And, behold, I will lay bands upon you and you shall not turn yourself from one side to another till you have ended the days of your siege." 
Ezekiel4:9 Also take wheat, barley, beans, lentils, millet, and spelt, and put them into one vessel and make bread of them. According to the number of the days that you shall lie upon your side, 390 days you shall eat of it." 
Ezekiel4:10 And the food you eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels or a full half pound a day, to be eaten at a fixed time each day." 
Ezekiel4:11 You shall drink water by measure also, about one quart or the sixth part of a hin; you shall drink at a fixed time each day." 
Ezekiel4:12 And you shall eat your food as barley cakes and you shall bake it with human dung as fuel in the sight of the people. 
Ezekiel4:13 And the Lord said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their defiled bread among the nations to whom I will drive them. [Hos. 9:3.]" 
Ezekiel4:14 Then said I, Ah, Lord God! Behold, I have never defiled myself. From my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that which dies of itself or is torn in pieces; neither did there ever come abominable flesh into my mouth. [Acts 10:14.]" 
Ezekiel4:15 Then He said to me, Behold, I will let you use cow's dung instead of human dung, and you shall prepare your food with it." 
Ezekiel4:16 Moreover, He said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread [by which life is supported] in Jerusalem; and they shall eat bread rationed by weight and with fearfulness, and they shall drink water rationed by measure and with dismay (silent, speechless grief caused by the impending starvation), [Lev. 26:26; Ps. 105:16; Isa. 3:1.]" 
Ezekiel4:17 In order that they may lack bread and water and look at one another in dismay and waste away [in their punishment] for their iniquity. 
Ezekiel5:1 AND YOU, son of man [Ezekiel], take a sharp sword and use it as a barber's razor and shave your head and your beard. Then take balances for weighing and divide the hair into three parts." 
Ezekiel5:2 You shall burn one part with fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and you shall take a second part and strike with the sword round about it; and a third part you shall scatter to the wind, and I will draw out a sword after them." 
Ezekiel5:3 You shall also take from these a small number of hairs and bind them in the skirts of your robe. 
Ezekiel5:4 And of these again take some hairs and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire; from there a fire shall come forth into all the house of Israel. 
Ezekiel5:5 Thus says the Lord God: This is Jerusalem; in the center of the nations I have set her, and countries are round about her." 
Ezekiel5:6 And she has changed and rebelled against My ordinances more wickedly than the [heathen] nations, and against My statutes more than the countries that are round about her; for [Israel] rejected My ordinances, and as for My statutes, they have not walked in them. [Rom. 2:14, 15.]" 
Ezekiel5:7 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Because you were more turbulent and raged [against Me] more than the nations that are round about you and have not walked in My statutes, neither have kept My ordinances, nor have done according to the ordinances [concerning] the nations that are round about you; [Deut. 7:2-6; Josh. 23:7; Judg. 2:2.]" 
Ezekiel5:8 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I, even I, am against you, and I will execute judgments in the midst of you in the sight of the nations." 
Ezekiel5:9 And because of all your abominations, I will do in you that which I have not done and the like of which I will never do again. [Lam. 4:6; Dan. 9:12; Amos 3:2.]" 
Ezekiel5:9 And because of all your abominations, I will do in you that which I have not done and the like of which I will never do again. [Lam. 4:6; Dan. 9:12; Amos 3:2.]" 
Ezekiel5:10 Therefore fathers shall eat their sons in your midst, and sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments on you and all who are left of you I will scatter to all the winds. [Lev. 26:33; Deut. 28:64; Ezek. 12:14; Zech. 2:6.]" 
Ezekiel5:11 Therefore, as I live, says the Lord God, surely because you have defiled My sanctuary with all your detestable things and with all your abominations, therefore will I also diminish you and withdraw My eye that it shall not spare you. And I also will have no pity." 
Ezekiel5:12 And a third of you shall die of pestilence and be consumed by famine in the midst of you; a third shall fall by the sword round about you; and I will scatter a third to all the winds and will draw out a sword after them. 
Ezekiel5:13 Thus shall My anger be spent and I will cause My wrath toward them to rest and I will be eased and comforted. And they shall know, understand, and realize that I the Lord have spoken in My zeal, when I have accomplished My wrath upon them. [Ezek. 36:6; 38:19.]" 
Ezekiel5:14 Moreover, I will make you a desolation and a reproach among the nations that are round about you and in the sight of all who pass by. [Lev. 26:31, 32; Neh. 2:17.]" 
Ezekiel5:15 So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, a warning and a horror and an astonishment to the [heathen] nations around you when I shall execute judgments upon you in anger and in wrath and in furious chastisements and rebukes,I the Lord have spoken it. [Deut. 28:37; Ps. 79:4; Jer. 24:9.]" 
Ezekiel5:16 When I shall loose against them the evil arrows of hunger that are for destruction, which I will send to destroy you, then I will increase the famine upon you and will break your staff of bread." 
Ezekiel5:17 And I will send upon you hunger and wild beasts, and they shall bereave you [of your loved ones]; and pestilence and blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I the Lord have spoken it." 
Ezekiel6:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel6:2 Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them," 
Ezekiel6:3 And say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God! Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, to the river ravines and the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places [of idolatrous worship]," 
Ezekiel6:4 And your altars shall be made desolate and your sun-pillars shall be broken in pieces, and I will cast down your slain before your idols. [Lev. 26:30.]" 
Ezekiel6:5 And I will lay the dead bodies of the children of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones round about your altars." 
Ezekiel6:6 In all your dwelling places the cities shall be laid waste and the high places shall be made desolate, that your altars may bear their guilt and be laid waste and made desolate, your idols may be broken and destroyed, your sun-images may be hewn down, and your handiworks may be wiped away and blotted out." 
Ezekiel6:7 And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel6:8 Yet will I leave some of you alive. When you have some that shall escape the sword among the nations, when you shall be scattered through the countries," 
Ezekiel6:9 Then those of you who escape shall [earnestly] remember Me among the nations to which they shall be carried captive, how that I have been broken by their lewdness and have Myself broken their wanton heart which has departed from Me and blinded their eyes which turn after their idols wantonly; and they shall be loathsome in their own sight for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations." 
Ezekiel6:10 And they shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord. I have not said in vain that I would bring this evil calamity [in punishment] upon them." 
Ezekiel6:11 Thus says the Lord God: Strike with your fist, stamp with your foot, and say, Alas! over all the vile abominations of the house of Israel for which [Israel] shall fall by sword, by famine, and by pestilence." 
Ezekiel6:12 He who is far off shall die of the pestilence, and he that is near shall fall by the sword, and he who remains and is preserved shall die by the famine. Thus will I accomplish My wrath upon them." 
Ezekiel6:13 Then shall you know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord, when their slain shall lie among their idols round about their altars upon every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, under every green tree, and under every thickly leafed oak, the places where they were accustomed to offer sweet incense to all their idols." 
Ezekiel6:14 And I will stretch out My hand upon them and make the land desolate and waste, yes, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblah [a Moabite city], throughout all their dwelling places; and they shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel7:1 MOREOVER, THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel7:2 Also, son of man, thus says the Lord God to the land of Israel: An end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land. [Ezek. 11:13; Amos 8:2.]" 
Ezekiel7:2 Also, son of man, thus says the Lord God to the land of Israel: An end! The end has come upon the four corners of the land. [Ezek. 11:13; Amos 8:2.]" 
Ezekiel7:3 Now is the end upon you, and I will send My anger upon you and will judge you according to your ways and will bring upon you retribution for all your abominations." 
Ezekiel7:4 And My eye will not spare you, neither will I have pity; but I will bring recompense for your evil ways upon you, while your abominations are in the midst of you [calling down punishment from a righteous God]; and you shall know (recognize, understand, and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel7:5 Thus says the Lord God: Behold, an evil is coming, [an evil so destructive and injurious, so sudden and violent, that it stands alone, not as a succession but as] only one evil." 
Ezekiel7:6 An end has come! The end has come! [The end,after sleeping so long] awakes against you. See, it has come!" 
Ezekiel7:7 Your turn (your doom) has come upon you, O inhabitant of the land; the time has come, the day is near, a day not of joyful shouting, but a day of tumult upon the mountains." 
Ezekiel7:8 Now will I shortly pour out My wrath upon you and finish spending My anger against you, and I will judge you according to your ways and will recompense you with punishment for all your abominations." 
Ezekiel7:9 And My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. I will punish you according to your ways while your abominations are right in the midst of you. And you shall know, understand, and realize that it is I the Lord Who smites you." 
Ezekiel7:10 Behold, the day! Behold, it has come! Your doom has gone forth, the rod has blossomed, pride has budded." 
Ezekiel7:11 Violence has grown up into a rod of wickedness; none of [Israel] shall remain, none of their abundance, none of their wealth; neither shall there be preeminence among them or wailing for them." 
Ezekiel7:12 The time has come, the day draws near. Let not the buyer rejoice nor the seller mourn, for wrath is upon all their multitude." 
Ezekiel7:13 For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, even were they yet alive. For the vision [of punishment] is touching [Israel's] whole multitude; he shall not come back, neither shall any strengthen himself whose life is in his iniquity." 
Ezekiel7:14 They have blown the trumpet and have made all ready, but none goes to the battle, for My wrath is upon all their multitude." 
Ezekiel7:15 The sword is without and pestilence and famine are within. He who is in the field shall die by the sword, and him who is in the city shall famine and pestilence devour." 
Ezekiel7:16 But those of them that escape shall escape, but shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, every one in his iniquity's [punishment]." 
Ezekiel7:17 All hands shall be feeble and all knees shall be weak as water. [Isa. 13:7; Jer. 6:24; Ezek. 21:7.] 
Ezekiel7:18 They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth; horror and dismay shall cover them, and shame shall be upon all faces and baldness upon all their heads [as evidence of grief]." 
Ezekiel7:19 They shall cast their silver into the streets, and their gold shall be [discarded] like an unclean thing or rubbish; their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord; they shall not satisfy their animal cravings nor fill their stomachs with them, for [wealth] has been the stumbling block of their iniquity. [Prov. 11:4; Zeph. 1:18.]" 
Ezekiel7:20 As for the beauty of gold for ornament, they turned it to pride and made of it the images of their abominations (idols) and of their detestable things. Therefore I will make it to them as an unclean thing." 
Ezekiel7:21 And I will give it for plunder into the hands of strangers and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil, and they shall profane it." 
Ezekiel7:22 Also I will turn My face from them and they shall profane My secret treasure [the temple]; and robbers shall enter into it and profane it. 
Ezekiel7:23 Prepare the chain [of imprisonment], for the land is full of bloodguiltiness [murders committed with pretended formalities of justice] and the city is full of violence." 
Ezekiel7:24 Therefore I will bring in the worst of the [heathen] nations, who will take possession of the houses [of the people of Judah]; I will also silence their strongholds and put an end to their proud might, and their holy places and those who sanctify them shall be profaned." 
Ezekiel7:25 Distress, panic, and destruction shall come, and they [of Judah] shall seek peace, and there shall be none." 
Ezekiel7:26 Calamity shall come upon calamity and rumor shall be upon rumor, and they shall seek a vision of the prophet; and the law and instruction shall cease from the [distracted] priest and counsel from the [dismayed] elders. [Ps. 74:9; Lam. 2:9.]" 
Ezekiel7:27 The king [of Judah] shall wear mourning and the prince shall clothe himself with garments of despair and desolation, while the hands of the people of the land shall tremble [palsied by terror]; for I will do to them in accordance with their ways, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and they shall know, recognize, and realize that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel8:1 AND IN the sixth year [of the capitivity of King Jehoiachin], in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house [a captive of the Babylonians] with the elders of Judah sitting before me, the hand of the Lord God fell there upon me." 
Ezekiel8:2 Then I beheld, and lo, a likeness of a Man with the appearance of fire; from His waist downward He was like fire, and from His waist upward He had the appearance of brightness like gleaming bronze." 
Ezekiel8:3 And He put forth the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heavens and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the door of the inner [court] which faces toward the north, where was the seat of the idol (image) of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy. [II Kings 16:10-16; 21:4, 5.]" 
Ezekiel8:4 And behold, there was the glory of the God of Israel [Who had loved and chosen them], like the vision I saw in the plain. [Ezek. 1:28; 3:22, 23.]" 
Ezekiel8:5 Then He [the Spirit] said to me, Son of man, now lift up your eyes toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, on the north of the altar gate was that idol (image) of jealousy in the entrance." 
Ezekiel8:6 Furthermore, [the Spirit] said to me, Son of man, do you see what they are doing? The great abominations that the house of Israel is committing here to drive Me far from My sanctuary? But you shall again see greater abominations." 
Ezekiel8:7 And He brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall." 
Ezekiel8:8 Then He said to me, Son of man, dig now in the wall. And when I had dug in the wall, behold, there was a door." 
Ezekiel8:9 And He said to me, Go in and see the wicked abominations that they do here." 
Ezekiel8:10 So I went in and saw there pictures of every form of creeping things and loathsome beasts and all the idols of the house of Israel, painted round about on the wall." 
Ezekiel8:11 And there stood before these [pictures] seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan [the scribe], with every man his censer in his hand, and a thick cloud of incense was going up [in prayer to these their gods]." 
Ezekiel8:12 Then said He to me, Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in his [secret] chambers of [idol] pictures? For they say, The Lord does not see us; the Lord has forsaken the land." 
Ezekiel8:13 He also said to me, Yet again you shall see greater abominations which they are committing." 
Ezekiel8:14 Then He brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the Lord's house; and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz [a Babylonian god, who was supposed to die annually and subsequently be resurrected]." 
Ezekiel8:15 Then said [the Spirit] to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? Yet again you shall see greater abominations that they are committing." 
Ezekiel8:16 And He brought me to the inner court of the Lord's house; and behold, at the door of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the bronze altar, were about twenty-five men with their backs to the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east, and they were bowing themselves toward the east and worshiping the sun." 
Ezekiel8:17 Then [the Spirit] said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too slight a thing to the house of Judah to commit the abominations which they commit here, that they must fill the land with violence and turn back afresh to provoke Me to anger? And behold, they put the branch to their nose [actually, before their mouths, in superstitious worship]!" 
Ezekiel8:18 Therefore I will deal in wrath; My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity; and though they cry in My ears with a loud voice, yet will I not hear them. [Prov. 1:28; Isa. 1:15; Jer. 11:11; 14:12; Mic. 3:4; Zech. 7:13.]" 
Ezekiel9:1 [THE SPIRIT] cried in my ears [in the vision] with a loud voice, saying, Cause those to draw near who have charge over the city [as executioners], every man with his destroying weapon in his hand." 
Ezekiel9:2 And behold, six men came from the direction of the Upper Gate, which faces north, every man with his battle-ax in his hand; and one man among them was clothed in linen, with a writer's ink bottle at his side. And they went in and stood beside the bronze altar." 
Ezekiel9:3 And the glory of the God of Israel [the Shekinah, cloud] had gone up from the cherubim upon which it had rested to [stand above] the threshold of the [Lord's] house. And [the Lord] called to the man clothed with linen, who had the writer's ink bottle at his side." 
Ezekiel9:4 And the Lord said to him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed in the midst of it." 
Ezekiel9:5 And to the others He said in my hearing, Follow [the man with the ink bottle] through the city and smite; let not your eye spare, neither have any pity." 
Ezekiel9:6 Slay outright the elderly, the young man and the virgin, the infant and the women; but do not touch or go near anyone on whom is the mark. Begin at My sanctuary. So they began with the old men who were in front of the temple [who did not have the Lord's mark on their foreheads]. [I Pet. 4:17.]" 
Ezekiel9:7 And He said to [the executioners], Defile the temple and fill its courts with the slain. Go forth! And they went forth and slew in the city." 
Ezekiel9:8 And while they were slaying them and I was left, I fell upon my face and cried, Ah, Lord God! Will You destroy all that is left of Israel in Your pouring out of Your wrath and indignation upon Jerusalem?" 
Ezekiel9:9 Then said He to me, The iniquity and guilt of the house of Israel and Judah are exceedingly great; the land is full of blood and the city full of injustice and perverseness; for they say, The Lord has forsaken the land; the Lord does not see [what we are doing]." 
Ezekiel9:10 And as for Me, My eye will not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will recompense their wicked doings upon their own heads." 
Ezekiel9:11 And behold, the man clothed in linen, who had the ink bottle at his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as You have commanded me." 
Ezekiel10:1 THEN I looked and behold, in the firmament that was over the heads of the cherubim there appeared above them something looking like a sapphire stone, in form resembling a throne." 
Ezekiel10:2 And [the Lord] spoke to the man clothed in linen and said, Go in among the whirling wheels under the cherubim; fill your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim and scatter them over the city. And he went in before my eyes. [Rev. 8:5.]" 
Ezekiel10:3 Now the cherubim stood on the south side of the house when the man went in; and the cloud [the Shekinah] filled the inner court. 
Ezekiel10:4 Then the glory of the Lord mounted up from the cherubim to stand over the threshold of the [Lord's] house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. [I Kings 8:10, 11; Ezek. 43:5.]" 
Ezekiel10:5 And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard even to the outer court, like the voice of God Almighty when He speaks. [Ps. 29:3, 4.]" 
Ezekiel10:6 And when He commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, Take fire from between the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim, [the man] went in and stood beside a wheel." 
Ezekiel10:7 And a cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, and took some of it and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out." 
Ezekiel10:8 And the cherubim seemed to have the form of a man's hand under their wings. 
Ezekiel10:9 And I looked and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel beside one cherub and another wheel beside another cherub; and the appearance of the wheels was like sparkling chrysolite." 
Ezekiel10:10 And as for their appearance, they four looked alike, as if a wheel had been within a wheel." 
Ezekiel10:11 When they went, they went in any one of the four directions [in which their four individual faces were turned]; they did not turn as they went, but to the place to which the front wheel faced the others followed; they turned not as they went." 
Ezekiel10:12 And their whole body, their backs, their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes round about, even the wheels that each had." 
Ezekiel10:13 As regarding the wheels [attached to them], they were called in my hearing the whirling wheels." 
Ezekiel10:14 And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of the cherub, the second the face of a man, the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle." 
Ezekiel10:15 And the cherubim mounted upward. This is the [same] living creature [the four regarded as one] that I saw by the river Chebar [in Babylonia]. [Ezek. 1:5.] 
Ezekiel10:16 And when the cherubim went, the wheels went beside them; and when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them." 
Ezekiel10:17 When those stood still, these stood still; and when those mounted up, these [the wheels] mounted up also, for the spirit of life was in these [wheels]. [Ezek. 1:21.]" 
Ezekiel10:18 Then the glory of the Lord [the Shekinah, cloud] went forth from above the threshold of the temple and stood over the cherubim." 
Ezekiel10:19 And the cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth in my sight, and they went forth with the wheels beside them; and they stood at the entrance of the East Gate of the house of the Lord, and the glory of the God of Israel [the Shekinah, cloud] was over them." 
Ezekiel10:20 This is the living creature [of four combined creatures] that I saw beneath the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I knew that they were cherubim." 
Ezekiel10:21 Each one had four faces and each one had four wings, and what looked like the hands of a man was under their wings." 
Ezekiel10:22 And as for the likeness of their faces, they were the same faces which I saw by the river Chebar, with regard to their appearances and themselves; they went every one straight forward." 
Ezekiel11:1 MOREOVER, THE Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the East Gate of the Lord's house, which faces east. And behold, at the door of the gateway there were twenty-five men; and I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people." 
Ezekiel11:2 Then [the Spirit] said to me, Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity and give wicked counsel in this city," 
Ezekiel11:3 Who say, [The time] is not near to build houses; this city is the boiling pot and we are the flesh." 
Ezekiel11:4 Therefore prophesy against them; prophesy, O son of man!" 
Ezekiel11:5 And the Spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and He said to me, Speak. Say, Thus says the Lord: This is what you thought, O house of Israel, for I know the things that come into your mind." 
Ezekiel11:6 You have multiplied your slain in this city and you have filled its streets with the slain. 
Ezekiel11:7 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Your slain whom you have laid in your midst; they are the flesh and this city is the boiling pot, but you shall be brought forth out of the midst of it." 
Ezekiel11:8 You have feared the sword, and I will bring a sword upon you, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel11:9 And I will bring you forth out of the midst of it and deliver you into the hands of foreigners and execute judgments among you. 
Ezekiel11:10 You shall fall by the sword; I will judge and punish you [before your neighbors] at the border or outside the land of Israel, and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel11:11 This city shall not be your boiling pot, neither shall you be the flesh in the midst of it; I will judge you at the border or outside of Israel;" 
Ezekiel11:12 And you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord; for you have not walked in My statutes nor executed My ordinances, but have acted according to the ordinances of the nations around you." 
Ezekiel11:13 And while I was prophesying, Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell down upon my face and cried with a loud voice, Ah, Lord God! Will You make a complete end of the remnant of Israel?" 
Ezekiel11:14 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel11:15 Son of man, your brethren, even your kindred, your fellow exiles, and all the house of Israel, all of them, are they of whom the [present] inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, They have gone far from the Lord [and from this land]; therefore this land is given to us for a possession." 
Ezekiel11:16 Therefore say, Thus says the Lord God: Whereas I have removed [Israel] far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet I have been to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries to which they have come." 
Ezekiel11:17 Therefore say, Thus says the Lord God: I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give back to you the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel11:18 And when they return there, they shall take away from it all traces of its detestable things and all its abominations (sex impurities and heathen religious practices)." 
Ezekiel11:19 And I will give them one heart [a new heart] and I will put a new spirit within them; and I will take the stony [unnaturally hardened] heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh [sensitive and responsive to the touch of their God], [Ezek. 18:31; 36:26; II Cor. 3:3.]" 
Ezekiel11:20 That they may walk in My statutes and keep My ordinances, and do them. And they shall be My people, and I will be their God." 
Ezekiel11:21 But as for those whose heart yearns for and goes after their detestable things and their loathsome abominations [associated with idolatry], I will repay their deeds upon their own heads, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel11:22 Then the cherubim lifted up their wings with the wheels which were beside them, and the glory of the God of Israel [the Shekinah, cloud] was over them." 
Ezekiel11:23 Then the glory of the Lord rose up from over the midst of the city and stood over the mountain which is on the east side of the city. 
Ezekiel11:24 And the Spirit lifted me up and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to the exiles. Then the vision that I had seen went up from me." 
Ezekiel11:25 And I told the exiles everything that the Lord had shown me. 
Ezekiel12:1 THE WORD of the Lord also came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:2 Son of man, you dwell in the midst of the house of the rebellious, who have eyes to see and see not, who have ears to hear and hear not, for they are a rebellious house. [Mark 8:18.]" 
Ezekiel12:3 Therefore, son of man, prepare your belongings for removing and going into exile, and move out by day in their sight; and you shall remove from your place to another place in their sight. It may be they will consider and perceive that they are a rebellious house." 
Ezekiel12:4 And you shall bring forth your baggage by day in their sight, as baggage for removing into exile; and you shall go forth yourself at evening in their sight, as those who go forth into exile." 
Ezekiel12:5 Dig through the wall in their sight and carry the stuff out through the hole. 
Ezekiel12:6 In their sight you shall bear your baggage upon your shoulder and carry it forth in the dark; you shall cover your face so that you cannot see the land, for I have set you as a sign for the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel12:7 And I did as I was commanded. I brought forth my baggage by day, as baggage for exile, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my own hands. I brought out my baggage in the dark, carrying it upon my shoulder in their sight." 
Ezekiel12:8 And in the morning came the word of the Lord to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:9 Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, asked you what you are doing?" 
Ezekiel12:10 Say to them, Thus says the Lord God: This oracle or revelation concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel who are in it." 
Ezekiel12:11 Say, I am your sign; as I have done, so shall it be done to them; into banishment, into captivity, they shall go." 
Ezekiel12:12 And the prince who is in their midst shall lift up his luggage to his shoulder in the dark; then shall he go forth. They shall dig through the wall to carry out through the hole in it. He shall cover his face so that he will not see with his eyes the land. 
Ezekiel12:13 My net also will I spread over him, and he shall be taken in My snare, and I will bring him to Babylonia, to the land of the Chaldeans; yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there. [II Kings 25:1-7; 39:5; Jer. 52:7-11.]" 
Ezekiel12:14 And I will scatter toward every wind all who are about him to help him, even all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them." 
Ezekiel12:15 And they shall know (recognize, understand, and realize) that I am the Lord, when I shall scatter them among the nations and disperse them in the countries." 
Ezekiel12:16 But I will leave a few survivors who will escape the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, that they may declare and confess all their [idolatrous] abominations among the nations to which they go, and [thus God's punishment of them will be justified before everyone and] they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel12:17 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:18 Son of man, eat your bread with shaking, and drink water with trembling and with fearfulness;" 
Ezekiel12:19 And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord God concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with fearfulness and drink water with dismay, for their land will be stripped and plundered of all its fullness, because of the violence of all those who dwell in it." 
Ezekiel12:20 And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be deserted and become a desolation; and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel12:21 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:22 Son of man, what is this proverb that you have in the land of Israel, saying, The days drag on and every vision comes to nothing and is not fulfilled?" 
Ezekiel12:23 Tell them therefore, Thus says the Lord God: I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall use it no more as a proverb in Israel. But say to them, The days are at hand and the fulfillment of every vision." 
Ezekiel12:24 For there shall be no more any false, empty, and fruitless vision or flattering divination in the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel12:25 For I am the Lord; I will speak, and the word that I shall speak shall be performed (come to pass); it shall be no more delayed or prolonged, for in your days, O rebellious house, I will speak the word and will perform it, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel12:26 Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:27 Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that [Ezekiel] sees is for many days to come, and he prophesies of the times that are far off." 
Ezekiel12:28 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God: There shall none of My words be deferred any more, but the word which I have spoken shall be performed, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel13:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel13:2 Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to those who prophesy out of their own mind and heart, Hear the word of the Lord!" 
Ezekiel13:3 Thus says the Lord God: Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit [and things they have not seen] and have seen nothing! 
Ezekiel13:4 O Israel, your prophets have been like foxes among ruins and in waste places." 
Ezekiel13:5 You have not gone up into the gaps or breeches, nor built up the wall for the house of Israel that it might stand in the battle in the day of the Lord." 
Ezekiel13:6 They have seen falsehood and lying divination, saying, The Lord says; but the Lord has not sent them. Yet they have hoped and made men to hope for the confirmation of their word." 
Ezekiel13:7 Have you not seen a false vision and have you not spoken a lying divination when you say, The Lord says, although I have not spoken?" 
Ezekiel13:8 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Because you have spoken empty, false, and delusive words and have seen lies, therefore behold, I am against you, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel13:9 And My hand shall be against the prophets who see empty, false, and delusive visions and who give lying prophecies. They shall not be in the secret council of My people, nor shall they be recorded in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter into the land of Israel; and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord God." 
Ezekiel13:10 Because, even because they have seduced My people, saying, Peace, when there is no peace, and because when one builds a [flimsy] wall, behold, [these prophets] daub it over with whitewash," 
Ezekiel13:11 Say to them who daub it with whitewash that it shall fall! There shall be a downpour of rain; and you, O great hailstones, shall fall, and a violent wind shall tear apart [the whitewashed, flimsy wall]." 
Ezekiel13:12 Behold, when the wall is fallen, will you not be asked, Where is the coating with which you [prophets] daubed it?" 
Ezekiel13:13 Therefore thus says the Lord God: I will even rend it with a stormy wind in My wrath, and there shall be an overwhelming rain in My anger and great hailstones in wrath to destroy [that wall]." 
Ezekiel13:14 So will I break down the wall that you have daubed with whitewash and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundations will be exposed; when it falls, you will perish and be consumed in the midst of it. And you will know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel13:15 Thus will I accomplish My wrath upon the wall and upon those who have daubed it with whitewash, and I will say to you, The wall is no more, neither are they who daubed it," 
Ezekiel13:16 The [false] prophets of Israel who prophesied deceitfully about Jerusalem, seeing visions of peace for her when there is no peace, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel13:17 And you, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who prophesy out of [the wishful thinking of] their own minds and hearts; prophesy against them," 
Ezekiel13:18 And say, Thus says the Lord God: Woe to the women who sew pillows to all armholes and fasten magic, protective charms to all wrists, and deceptive veils upon the heads of those of every stature to hunt and capture human lives! Will you snare the lives of My people to keep your own selves alive?" 
Ezekiel13:19 You have profaned Me among My people [in payment] for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, slaying persons who should not die and giving [a guaranty of] life to those who should not live, by your lying to My people, who give heed to lies." 
Ezekiel13:20 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against your pillows and charms and veils with which you snare human lives like birds, and I will tear them from your arms and will let the lives you hunt go free, the lives you are snaring like birds." 
Ezekiel13:21 Your [deceptive] veils also will I tear and deliver My people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted and snared. Then you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel13:22 Because with lies you have made the righteous sad and disheartened, whom I have not made sad or disheartened, and because you have encouraged and strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he should not return from his wicked way and be saved [in that you falsely promised him life]," 
Ezekiel13:23 Therefore you will no more see false visions or practice divinations, and I will deliver My people out of your hand. Then you will know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel14:1 THEN CAME certain of the elders of Israel to me and sat before me. 
Ezekiel14:2 And the word of the Lord came to me: 
Ezekiel14:3 Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their hearts and put the stumbling block of their iniquity and guilt before their faces; should I permit Myself to be inquired of at all by them?" 
Ezekiel14:4 Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Every man of the house of Israel who takes his idols [of self-will and unsubmissiveness] into his heart and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity [idols of silver and gold] before his face, and yet comes to the prophet [to inquire of him], I the Lord will answer him, answer him according to the multitude of his idols," 
Ezekiel14:5 That I may lay hold of the house of Israel in the thoughts of their own mind and heart, because they are all estranged from Me through their idols." 
Ezekiel14:6 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: Repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations." 
Ezekiel14:7 For anyone of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel who separates himself from Me, taking his idols into his heart and putting the stumbling block of his iniquity and guilt before his face, and [yet] comes to the prophet to inquire for himself of Me, I the Lord will answer him Myself!" 
Ezekiel14:8 And I will set My face against that [false worshiper] and will make him a sign and a byword, and I will cut him off from the midst of My people; and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel14:9 [The prophet has not been granted permission to give an answer to the hypocritical inquirer] but if the prophet does give the man the answer he desires [thus allowing himself to be a party to the inquirer's sin], I the Lord will see to it that the prophet is deceived in his answer, and I will stretch out My hand against him and will destroy him from the midst of My people Israel." 
Ezekiel14:10 And they both shall bear the punishment of their iniquity: the iniquity of the [presumptuous] prophet shall be the same as the iniquity of the [hypocritical] inquirer," 
Ezekiel14:11 That the house of Israel may go no more astray from Me, neither defile themselves any more with all their transgressions, but that they may be My people, and I may be their God, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel14:12 The word of the Lord came [again] to me, saying," 
Ezekiel14:13 Son of man, when a land sins against Me by committing a trespass, and I stretch out My hand against it and break its staff of bread and send famine upon it and cut off from it man and beast," 
Ezekiel14:14 Even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, they would save but their own lives by their righteousness (their uprightness and right standing with Me), says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel14:14 Even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, they would save but their own lives by their righteousness (their uprightness and right standing with Me), says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel14:14 Even if these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, they would save but their own lives by their righteousness (their uprightness and right standing with Me), says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel14:15 If I cause ferocious and evil wild animals to pass through the land and they ravage and bereave it, and it becomes desolate so that no man may pass through because of the beasts;" 
Ezekiel14:16 Though these three men were in it, as I live, says the Lord God, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters; they themselves alone would be delivered but the land would be desolate (laid waste and deserted)." 
Ezekiel14:17 Or if I bring a sword upon that land and say, Sword, go through the land, so that I cut off man and beast from it," 
Ezekiel14:18 Though these three men were in it, as I live, says the Lord God, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they themselves alone would be delivered." 
Ezekiel14:19 Or if I send a pestilence into that land and pour out My wrath upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast," 
Ezekiel14:20 Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, says the Lord God, they would deliver neither son nor daughter; they would but deliver their own lives by their righteousness (their moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Ezekiel14:20 Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, says the Lord God, they would deliver neither son nor daughter; they would but deliver their own lives by their righteousness (their moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Ezekiel14:20 Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, says the Lord God, they would deliver neither son nor daughter; they would but deliver their own lives by their righteousness (their moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation)." 
Ezekiel14:21 For thus says the Lord God: How much more when I send My four sore acts of judgment upon Jerusalem,the sword, the famine, the evil wild beasts, and the pestilence,to cut off from it man and beast! [Lev. 26:21-33.]" 
Ezekiel14:22 And yet, behold, in it shall be left a remnant (an escaped portion), both sons and daughters. They shall be carried forth to you [in Babylon], and when you see their [ungodly] walk and their [wicked] doings, you will be consoled for the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it." 
Ezekiel14:23 And they shall console you when you see their evil ways and their rebellious actions. Then you shall know (understand and realize) that I have not done without cause all that I have done in Jerusalem, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel15:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel15:2 Son of man, How is the wood of the grapevine [Israel] more than that of any tree, the vine branch which was among the trees of the forest? [Ps. 80:8-13; Jer. 2:21.]" 
Ezekiel15:3 Shall wood be taken from it to do any work? Or will men take a peg of it on which to hang any vessel? 
Ezekiel15:4 Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire consumes both ends of it and the middle of it is charred. Is it suitable or profitable for any work?" 
Ezekiel15:5 Notice, even when it was whole, it was good for no work; how much less shall it be useful and profitable when the fire has devoured it and it is charred?" 
Ezekiel15:6 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Like the wood of the grapevine among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so will I give up the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel15:7 And I will set My face against them; they shall go out from one fire and another fire shall devour them, and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord, when I set My face against them." 
Ezekiel15:8 And I will make the land desolate (laid waste and deserted) because they have acted faithlessly [through their idolatry], says the Lord." 
Ezekiel16:1 AGAIN THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel16:2 Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know, understand, and realize her [idolatrous] abominations [that they] are disgusting, detestable, and shamefully vile." 
Ezekiel16:3 And say, Thus says the Lord God to Jerusalem [representing Israel]: Your [spiritual] origin and your birth are thoroughly Canaanitish; your [spiritual] father was an Amorite and your [spiritual] mother a Hittite. [Ezek. 16:45; John 8:44.]" 
Ezekiel16:4 And as for your birth, on the day you were born your navel cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt or swaddled with bands at all." 
Ezekiel16:5 No eye pitied you to do any of these things for you, to have compassion on you; but you were cast out in the open field, for your person was abhorrent and loathsome on the day that you were born." 
Ezekiel16:6 And when I passed by you and saw you rolling about in your blood, I said to you in your blood, Live! Yes, I said to you still in your natal blood, Live!" 
Ezekiel16:7 I caused you [Israel] to multiply as the bud which grows in the field, and you increased and became tall and you came to full maidenhood and beauty; your breasts were formed and your hair had grown, yet you were naked and bare." 
Ezekiel16:8 Now I passed by you again and looked upon you; behold, you were maturing and at the time for love, and I spread My skirt over you and covered your nakedness. Yes, I plighted My troth to you and entered into a covenant with you, says the Lord, and you became Mine." 
Ezekiel16:9 Then I washed you with water; yes, I thoroughly washed away your [clinging] blood from you and I anointed you with oil." 
Ezekiel16:10 I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shod you with [fine seal] leather; and I girded you about with fine linen and covered you with silk. 
Ezekiel16:11 I decked you also with ornaments and I put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck. 
Ezekiel16:12 And I put a ring on your nostril and earrings in your ears and a beautiful crown upon your head! 
Ezekiel16:13 Thus you were decked with gold and silver, and your raiment was of fine linen and silk and embroidered cloth; you ate fine flour and honey and oil. And you were exceedingly beautiful and you prospered into royal estate." 
Ezekiel16:14 And your renown went forth among the nations for your beauty, for it was perfect through My majesty and splendor which I had put upon you, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel16:15 But you trusted in and relied on your own beauty and were unfaithful to God and played the harlot [in idolatry] because of your renown, and you poured out your fornications upon anyone who passed by [as you worshiped the idols of every nation which prevailed over you] and your beauty was his." 
Ezekiel16:16 And you took some of your garments and made for yourself gaily decorated high places or shrines and played the harlot on them,things which should not come and that which should not take place. 
Ezekiel16:17 You did also take your fair jewels and beautiful vessels of My gold and My silver which I had given you and made for yourself images of men, and you played the harlot with them;" 
Ezekiel16:18 And you took your embroidered garments and covered them and set My oil and My incense before them. 
Ezekiel16:19 My bread also which I gave you,fine flour and oil and honey with which I fed you,you have even set it before the idols for a sweet odor. Thus it was, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel16:20 Moreover, you have taken your sons and your daughters whom you have borne to Me, and you have sacrificed them [to your idols] to be destroyed. Were your harlotries too little," 
Ezekiel16:21 That you have slain My children and delivered them up, in setting them apart and causing them to pass through the fire for [your idols]?" 
Ezekiel16:22 And in all your abominations and idolatrous whoredoms you have not [earnestly] remembered the days of your youth when you were naked and bare, rolling about in your natal blood." 
Ezekiel16:23 And after all your wickedness,Woe, woe to you! says the Lord God," 
Ezekiel16:24 You have built also for yourself a vaulted chamber (brothel) and have made a high place [of idol worship] in every street. 
Ezekiel16:25 At every crossway you built your high place [for idol worship] and have made your beauty an abomination [abhorrent, loathsome, extremely disgusting, and detestable]; and you have made your body available to every passerby and multiplied your [idolatry and spiritual] harlotry." 
Ezekiel16:26 You have also played the harlot with the Egyptians, your neighbors, [by adopting their idolatries] whose worship is thoroughly sensuous, and you have multiplied your harlotry to provoke Me to anger." 
Ezekiel16:27 Behold therefore, I have stretched out My hand against you, diminished your ordinary allowance of food, and delivered you over to the will of those who hate and despise you, the daughters of the Philistines, who turned away in shame from your despicable policy and lewd behavior [for they are faithful to their gods]!" 
Ezekiel16:28 You played the harlot also with the Assyrians because you were unsatiable; yes, you played the harlot with them, and yet you were not satisfied." 
Ezekiel16:29 Moreover, you multiplied your harlotry with the land of trade, with Chaldea, and yet even with this you were not satisfied." 
Ezekiel16:30 How weak and spent with longing and lust is your heart and mind, says the Lord God, seeing you do all these things, the work of a bold, domineering harlot," 
Ezekiel16:31 In that you build your vaulted place (brothel) at the head of every street and make your high place at every crossing. But you were not like a harlot because you scorned pay. 
Ezekiel16:32 Rather, you were as an adulterous wife who receives strangers instead of her husband!" 
Ezekiel16:33 Men give gifts to all harlots, but you give your gifts to all your lovers and hire them, bribing [the nations to ally themselves with you], that they may come to you on every side for your harlotries (your idolatrous unfaithfulnesses to God)." 
Ezekiel16:34 And you are different [the reverse] from other women in your harlotries, in that nobody follows you to lure you into harlotry and in that you give hire when no hire is given you; and so you are different." 
Ezekiel16:35 Therefore, O harlot [Israel], hear the word of the Lord!" 
Ezekiel16:36 Thus says the Lord God: Because your brass [coins and gifts] and your filthiness were emptied out and your nakedness uncovered through your harlotries with your lovers, and because of all the [filthy] idols of your abominations, and the blood of your children that you gave to them," 
Ezekiel16:37 Therefore behold, I will gather all your lovers with whom you have taken pleasure, and all those whom you have loved with all those whom you have hated; I will even gather them [the allies you have courted] against you on every side and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness [making you, Israel, an object of loathing and of mockery, a spectacle among the nations]." 
Ezekiel16:38 And I the Lord will judge you as women who break wedlock and shed blood are judged, and I will bring upon you the blood of [your divine Husband's] wrath and jealousy. [Num. 5:18.]" 
Ezekiel16:39 And I will also give you into the hand of those [your enemies], and they shall throw down your vaulted place (brothel) and shall demolish your high places [of idolatry]; they shall strip you of your clothes and shall take your splendid jewels and leave you naked and bare." 
Ezekiel16:40 They shall also bring up a company against you, and they shall stone you with stones and hew down and thrust you through with their swords." 
Ezekiel16:41 And they shall burn your houses with fire and execute judgments upon you before the eyes of many women spectators [the nations]. And I will cause you to cease playing the harlot, and you also shall give hire no more." 
Ezekiel16:42 So will I make My wrath toward you to rest and My jealousy shall depart from you [My adulterous wife], and I will be quiet and will be no more angry." 
Ezekiel16:43 Because you have not [earnestly] remembered the days of your youth but have enraged Me with all these things, therefore behold, I also will bring your deeds down on your own head, says the Lord God. Did you not commit this lewdness above and in addition to all your other abominations?" 
Ezekiel16:44 Behold, everyone who uses proverbs will use this proverb against you: As is the mother, so is her daughter." 
Ezekiel16:45 You are your [spiritual] mother's daughter who loathed her husband and her children, and you are the sister of your sisters who loathed their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite and your father an Amorite." 
Ezekiel16:46 And your elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters who dwelt in the north and at your left hand; and your younger sister who dwelt in the south and at your right hand is Sodom and her daughters." 
Ezekiel16:47 Yet you were not satisfied to walk after their ways or to do after their abominations, but very soon you were more corrupt in all your ways than they were [for your sin, as those taught of God, is far blacker than theirs]. [Matt. 11:20-24.]" 
Ezekiel16:48 As I live, says the Lord God, Sodom your sister has not done, she nor her daughters, as you have done, you and your daughters." 
Ezekiel16:49 Behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, overabundance of food, prosperous ease, and idleness were hers and her daughters'; neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy." 
Ezekiel16:50 And they were haughty and committed abominable offenses before Me; therefore I removed them when I saw it and I saw fit. [Gen. 13:13; 18:20; 19:5.] 
Ezekiel16:51 Neither has Samaria committed half of your sins, but you have multiplied your [idolatrous] abominations more than they and have seemed to justify your sisters [Samaria and Sodom] in all their wickedness by all the abominable things which you have done,you even make them appear righteous in comparison with you." 
Ezekiel16:52 Take upon you and bear your own shame and disgrace [in your punishment], you also who called in question and judged your sisters, for you have virtually absolved them by your sins in which you behaved more abominably than they; they are more right than you. Yes, be ashamed and confounded and bear your shame and disgrace, you also, for you have seemed to justify your sisters and make them appear righteous." 
Ezekiel16:53 I will restore them again from their captivity, restore the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters and the fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in the midst of them [in the day of the Lord], [Isa. 1:9.]" 
Ezekiel16:54 That you [Judah], amid your shame and disgrace, may be compelled to recognize your wickedness and be thoroughly ashamed and confounded at all you have done, becoming [converted and bringing] consolation and comfort to [your sisters.]" 
Ezekiel16:55 And your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former estate, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former estate; then you and your daughters shall return to your former estate." 
Ezekiel16:56 For was your sister Sodom not mentioned by you [except] as a byword in the day of your pride," 
Ezekiel16:57 Before your own wickedness was uncovered? Now you have become like her, an object of reproach and a byword for the daughters of Syria and of Edom and for all who are round about them and for the daughters of the Philistines,those round about who despise you." 
Ezekiel16:58 You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your [idolatrous] abominations, says the Lord." 
Ezekiel16:59 Yes, thus says the Lord God: I will even deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant;" 
Ezekiel16:60 Nevertheless, I will [earnestly] remember My covenant with you in the days of your youth and I will establish with you an everlasting covenant. [Ps. 106:45.]" 
Ezekiel16:61 Then you will [earnestly] remember your ways and be ashamed and confounded when you shall receive your sisters, both your elder and your younger; I will give them to you as daughters, but not on account of your covenant [with Me]. [John 10:16.]" 
Ezekiel16:62 And I will establish My covenant with you, and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord, [Hos. 2:19, 20.]" 
Ezekiel16:63 That you may [earnestly] remember and be ashamed and confounded and never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I have forgiven you all that you have done, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel17:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel17:2 Son of man, put forth a riddle and speak a parable or allegory to the house of Israel;" 
Ezekiel17:3 Say, Thus says the Lord God: A great eagle [Nebuchadnezzar] with great wings and long pinions, rich in feathers of various colors, came to Lebanon [symbolic of Jerusalem] and took the top of the cedar [tree]." 
Ezekiel17:4 He broke off the topmost of its young twigs [the youthful King Jehoiachin] and carried it into a land of trade [Babylon]; he set it in a city of merchants. 
Ezekiel17:5 He took also of the seedlings of the land [Zedekiah, one of the native royal family] and planted it in fertile soil and a fruitful field; he placed it beside abundant waters and set it as a willow tree [to succeed Zedekiah's nephew Jehoiachin in Judah as vassal king]." 
Ezekiel17:6 And it grew and became a spreading vine of low [not Davidic] stature, whose branches turned [in submission] toward him, and its roots remained under and subject to him [the king of Babylon]; so it became a vine and brought forth branches and shot forth leafy twigs." 
Ezekiel17:7 There was also another great eagle [the Egyptian king] with great wings and many feathers; and behold, this vine [Zedekiah] bent its roots [languishingly] toward him and shot forth its branches toward him, away from the beds of its planting, for him to water." 
Ezekiel17:8 Though it was planted in good soil where water was plentiful for it to produce leaves and to bear fruit, it was transplanted, that it might become a splendid vine." 
Ezekiel17:9 Thus says the Lord God: Ask, Will it thrive? Will he [the insulted Nebuchadnezzar] not pluck up its roots and strip off its fruit so that all its fresh sprouting leaves will wither? It will not take a strong arm or many people to pluck it up by its roots [totally ending Israel's national existence]. [II Kings 25:1-7.]" 
Ezekiel17:10 Yes, behold, though transplanted, will it prosper? Will it not utterly wither when the east wind touches it? It will wither in the furrows and beds where it sprouted and grew. [Hos. 13:9-12, 15.]" 
Ezekiel17:11 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel17:12 Say now to the rebellious house, Do you not know and realize what these things mean? Tell them, Behold, the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and took its king [Jehoiachin] and its princes and brought them with him to Babylon. [II Kings 24:11-16.]" 
Ezekiel17:13 And he took one of the royal family [the king's uncle, Zedekiah] and made a covenant with him, putting him under oath. He also took the mighty and chief men of the land, [II Kings 24:17.]" 
Ezekiel17:14 That the kingdom might become low and base and be unable to lift itself up, but that by keeping his [Nebuchadnezzar's] covenant it might stand." 
Ezekiel17:15 But he [Zedekiah] rebelled against him [Nebuchadnezzar] in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Will he prosper? Will he escape who does such things? Can he break the covenant with [Babylon] and yet escape?" 
Ezekiel17:16 As I live, says the Lord God, surely in the place where the king [Nebuchadnezzar] dwells who made [Zedekiah as vassal] king, whose oath [Zedekiah] despised and whose covenant he broke, even with him in the midst of Babylon shall [Zedekiah] die." 
Ezekiel17:17 Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company help him in the war when the [Babylonians] cast up mounds and build forts to destroy many lives. 
Ezekiel17:18 For [Zedekiah] despised the oath and broke the covenant and behold, he had given his hand, and yet has done all these things; he shall not escape." 
Ezekiel17:19 Therefore thus says the Lord God: As I live, surely My oath [made for Me by Nebuchadnezzar] that [Zedekiah] has despised and My covenant with him that he has broken, I will even bring down on his own head." 
Ezekiel17:20 And I will spread My net over him, and he shall be taken in My snare; and I will bring him to Babylon and will enter into judgment and punishment with him there for his trespass and treason that he has committed against Me." 
Ezekiel17:21 And all his fugitives [from Judah] in all his bands shall fall by the sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward every wind. And you shall know (understand and realize) that I the Lord have spoken it." 
Ezekiel17:22 Thus says the Lord God: I Myself will take a twig from the lofty top of the cedar and will set it out; I will crop off from the topmost of its young twigs a tender one and will plant it upon a mountain high and exalted. [Isa. 11:1, 10; 53:2; Jer. 23:5; Zech. 3:8.]" 
Ezekiel17:23 On the mountain height of Israel will I plant it, that it may bring forth boughs and bear fruit and be a noble cedar, and under it shall dwell all birds of every feather; in the shade of its branches they shall nestle and find rest." 
Ezekiel17:24 And all the trees of the field shall know (understand and realize) that I the Lord have brought low the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree flourish. I the Lord have spoken, and I will do it." 
Ezekiel18:1 THE WORD of the Lord came to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel18:2 What do you mean by using this proverb concerning the land of Israel, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge?" 
Ezekiel18:3 As I live, says the Lord God, you shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel." 
Ezekiel18:4 Behold, all souls are Mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is Mine; the soul that sins, it shall die. [Rom. 6:23.]" 
Ezekiel18:5 But if a man is [uncompromisingly] righteous (upright and in right standing with God) and does what is lawful and right," 
Ezekiel18:6 And has not eaten [at the idol shrines] upon the mountains nor lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, has not defiled his neighbor's wife nor come near to a woman in her time of impurity," 
Ezekiel18:7 And has not wronged anyone but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has taken nothing by robbery but has given his bread to the hungry and has covered the naked with a garment," 
Ezekiel18:8 Who does not charge interest or percentage of increase on what he lends [in compassion], who withholds his hand from iniquity, who executes true justice between man and man," 
Ezekiel18:9 Who has walked in My statutes and kept My ordinances, to deal justly; [then] he is [truly] righteous; he shall surely live, says the Lord God. [Ezek. 20:11; Amos 5:4.]" 
Ezekiel18:9 Who has walked in My statutes and kept My ordinances, to deal justly; [then] he is [truly] righteous; he shall surely live, says the Lord God. [Ezek. 20:11; Amos 5:4.]" 
Ezekiel18:10 If he begets a son who is a robber or a shedder of blood, who does to a brother either of these sins of violence," 
Ezekiel18:11 And leaves undone all of the duties [of a righteous man], and has even eaten [the food set before idols] on the mountains and defiled his neighbor's wife," 
Ezekiel18:12 Has wronged the poor and needy, has taken by robbery, has not restored [to the debtor] his pledge, has lifted up his eyes to the idols, has committed abomination (things hateful and exceedingly vile in the eyes of God)," 
Ezekiel18:13 And has charged interest or percentage of increase on what he has loaned [in supposed compassion]; shall he then live? He shall not live! He has done all these abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon him. 
Ezekiel18:14 But if this wicked man begets a son who sees all the sins which his father has committed, and considers and fears [God] and does not do like his father," 
Ezekiel18:15 Who has not eaten [food set before idols] upon the mountains nor has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, has not defiled his neighbor's wife," 
Ezekiel18:16 Nor wronged anyone, nor has taken anything in pledge, nor has taken by robbery but has given his bread to the hungry and has covered the naked with a garment," 
Ezekiel18:17 Who has withdrawn his hand from [oppressing] the poor, who has not received interest or increase [from the needy] but has executed My ordinances and has walked in My statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father; he shall surely live." 
Ezekiel18:18 As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, robbed his brother, and did that which is not good among his people, behold, he shall die for his iniquity and guilt." 
Ezekiel18:19 Yet do you say, Why does not the son bear the iniquity of the father? When the son has done that which is lawful and right and has kept all My statutes and has done them, he shall surely live." 
Ezekiel18:20 The soul that sins, it [is the one that] shall die. The son shall not bear and be punished for the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear and be punished for the iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him only, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon the wicked only." 
Ezekiel18:21 But if the wicked man turns from all his sins that he has committed and keeps all My statutes and does that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die." 
Ezekiel18:22 None of his transgressions which he has committed shall be remembered against him; for his righteousness which he has executed [for his moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation], he shall live." 
Ezekiel18:23 Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked? says the Lord, and not rather that he should turn from his evil way and return [to his God] and live?" 
Ezekiel18:24 But if the righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity and does according to all the abominations that the wicked man does, shall he live? None of his righteous deeds which he has done shall be remembered. In his trespass that he has trespassed and in his sin that he has sinned, in them shall he die." 
Ezekiel18:25 Yet you say, The way of the Lord is not fair and just. Hear now, O house of Israel: Is not My way fair and just? Are not your ways unfair and unjust?" 
Ezekiel18:26 When a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity and dies in his sins, for his iniquity that he has done he shall die." 
Ezekiel18:27 Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness which he has committed and does that which is lawful and right, he shall save his life." 
Ezekiel18:28 Because he considers and turns away from all his transgressions which he has committed, he shall surely live; he shall not die." 
Ezekiel18:29 Yet says the house of Israel, The way of the Lord is not fair and just! O house of Israel, are not My ways fair and just? Are not your ways unfair and unjust?" 
Ezekiel18:30 Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, says the Lord God. Repent and turn from all your transgressions, lest iniquity be your ruin and so shall they not be a stumbling block to you. [Matt. 3:2; Rev. 2:5.]" 
Ezekiel18:31 Cast away from you all your transgressions by which you have transgressed against Me, and make you a new mind and heart and a new spirit. For why will you die, O house of Israel? [Eph. 4:22, 23.]" 
Ezekiel18:32 For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies, says the Lord God. Therefore turn (be converted) and live!" 
Ezekiel19:1 MOREOVER, TAKE up a lamentation for the princes of Israel," 
Ezekiel19:2 And say, What a lioness was your mother [Jerusalem-Judah]! She couched among lions; in the midst of young lions she nourished her cubs." 
Ezekiel19:3 And she [the royal mother-city] brought up one of her cubs [Jehoahaz]; he became a young lion and he learned to catch the prey; he devoured men. [II Kings 23:30, 32.]" 
Ezekiel19:4 The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit, and they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt. [II Chron. 36:1, 4.]" 
Ezekiel19:5 Now when she had waited, she saw her hope was lost. Then she took another of her cubs [Jehoiachin] and made him a young lion. [II Kings 23:34; 24:1, 6.]" 
Ezekiel19:6 And he [Jehoiachin] went up and down among the lions; he became a young lion and learned to catch prey, and he devoured men." 
Ezekiel19:7 And he knew and ravaged their strongholds and he laid waste their cities, and the land was appalled and all who were in it by the noise of his roaring." 
Ezekiel19:8 Then the nations set against [the king] on every side from the provinces, and they spread their net over him [Jehoiachin]; he was taken in their pit. [II Kings 24:8-15.]" 
Ezekiel19:9 With hooks they put him in a cage and brought him to the king of Babylon; they brought him into custody and put him in strongholds, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel19:10 Your mother [the mother-city Jerusalem] was like a vine [like you, Zedekiah, and in your blood] planted by the waters; it was fruitful and full of branches by reason of abundant water. [II Kings 24:17; Ezek. 17:7.]" 
Ezekiel19:11 And it had strong rods for the scepters of those who bore rule and its height was exalted among the thick branches and into the clouds, and it was seen in its height among the multitude of its branches and was conspicuous." 
Ezekiel19:12 But the vine was plucked up in God's wrath [by His agent the Babylonian king] and it was cast down to the ground; the east wind dried up its fruit; its strong rods were broken off and withered; the fire [of God's judgment] consumed them. 
Ezekiel19:13 And now it is transplanted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty land [Babylon]." 
Ezekiel19:14 And fire went out of a rod [Zedekiah] of its branches which has consumed the vine's fruit, so that it has in it no [longer a] strong rod to be a scepter for ruling. This is a lamentation and shall be for a lamentation and a dirge." 
Ezekiel20:1 IN THE seventh year, in the fifth [month], on the tenth [day] of the month [after the beginning of the Babylonian captivity, which was to last seventy years], certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the Lord and sat down before me [Ezekiel, in Babylonia]. [Jer. 25:11; 29:10.]" 
Ezekiel20:2 Then came the word of the Lord to me, saying," 
Ezekiel20:3 Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Have you come to inquire of Me? As I live, says the Lord God, I will not be inquired of by you!" 
Ezekiel20:4 Will you judge them, son of man [Ezekiel], will you judge them? Then cause them to know, understand, and realize the abominations of their fathers. [Matt. 23:29-33; Acts 7:51, 52.]" 
Ezekiel20:5 And say to them, Thus says the Lord God: In the day when I chose Israel and lifted up My hand and swore to the offspring of the house of Jacob and made Myself known to them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up My hand and swore to them, saying, I am the Lord your God," 
Ezekiel20:6 On that day I lifted up My hand and swore to them to bring them out of the land of Egypt to a land that I had searched out for them, flowing with milk and honey, [a land] which is an ornament and a glory to all lands." 
Ezekiel20:7 Then said I to them, Let every man cast away the abominable things on which he feasts his eyes, and defile not yourselves with the idols of Egypt; I am the Lord your God." 
Ezekiel20:8 But they rebelled against Me and would not listen to Me; they did not every man cast away the abominable things on which they feasted their eyes, nor did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I [thought], I will pour out My wrath upon them and finish My anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel20:9 But I acted for My name's sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the [heathen] nations among whom they dwelt, in whose sight I made Myself known to them by bringing them out of the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel20:10 So I caused them to go out from the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness. 
Ezekiel20:11 And I gave them My statutes and showed and made known to them My judgments, which, if a man keeps, he must live in and by them." 
Ezekiel20:12 Moreover, also I gave them My Sabbaths to be a sign between Me and them, that they might understand and realize that I am the Lord Who sanctifies them [separates and sets them apart]." 
Ezekiel20:13 But the house of Israel rebelled against Me in the wilderness; they walked not in My statutes and they despised and cast away My judgments, which, if a man keeps, he must even live in and by them; and they grievously profaned My Sabbaths. Then I thought I would pour out My wrath on them in the wilderness and uproot and consume them." 
Ezekiel20:14 But I acted for My name's sake, that it should not be profaned before the [heathen] nations in whose sight I brought them out." 
Ezekiel20:15 Yet also I lifted up My hand to swear to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the ornament and glory of all lands," 
Ezekiel20:16 Because they despised and rejected My ordinances and walked not in My statutes and profaned My Sabbaths, for their hearts went after their idols." 
Ezekiel20:17 Yet My eye pitied them instead of destroying them, and I did not make a full end of them in the wilderness." 
Ezekiel20:18 But I said to their sons in the wilderness, You shall not walk in the statutes of your fathers nor observe their ordinances nor defile yourselves with their idols." 
Ezekiel20:19 I the Lord am your God; walk in My statutes and keep My ordinances," 
Ezekiel20:20 And hallow (separate and keep holy) My Sabbaths, and they shall be a sign between Me and you, that you may know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord your God." 
Ezekiel20:21 Yet the sons rebelled against Me; they walked not in My statutes, neither kept My ordinances which, if a man does, he must live in and by them; they profaned My Sabbaths. Then I thought I would pour out My wrath on them and finish My anger against them in the wilderness." 
Ezekiel20:22 Yet I withheld My hand and acted for My name's sake, that it should not be debased and profaned in the sight of the [heathen] nations, in whose sight I had brought them forth [from bondage]." 
Ezekiel20:23 Moreover, I lifted up My hand and swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the [heathen] nations and disperse them in the countries," 
Ezekiel20:24 Because they had not executed My ordinances but had despised and rejected My statutes and had profaned My Sabbaths, and their eyes were set on their fathers' idols." 
Ezekiel20:25 Wherefore also I gave them [over to] statutes that were not good and ordinances whereby they should not live and could not have life, [Ps. 81:12; Isa. 66:4; Rom. 1:21-25, 28.]" 
Ezekiel20:26 And I [let them] pollute and make themselves unclean in their own offerings [to their idols], in that they caused to pass through the fire all the firstborn, that I might make them desolate, to the end that they might know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord. [Lev. 20:2-5.]" 
Ezekiel20:27 Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Again in this your fathers blasphemed Me, in that they dealt faithlessly and treacherously with Me and committed a treasonous trespass against Me." 
Ezekiel20:28 For when I had brought them into the land which I lifted up My hand and swore to give to them, then they saw every high hill and every dark and leafy tree [as a place for idol worship], and they offered there their sacrifices and there they presented their offering that provoked My anger and sadness; there also they made their sweet-smelling savor and poured out there their drink offerings." 
Ezekiel20:29 Then I said to them, What is the high place to which you go? And the name of it is called Bamah [high place] to this day." 
Ezekiel20:30 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: Do you [exiles] debase and defile yourselves after the manner of your fathers? And do you play the harlot after their loathsome and detestable things?" 
Ezekiel20:31 And when you offer your gifts, when you make your sons pass through the fire, do you not debase and defile yourselves with all your idols to this day? And shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, says the Lord God, I will not be inquired of by you!" 
Ezekiel20:32 And that which has come up in your mind shall never happen, in that you think, We will be as the nations, as the tribes of the countries, to serve idols of wood and stone." 
Ezekiel20:33 As I live, says the Lord God, surely with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out will I be King over you." 
Ezekiel20:34 And I will bring you out from the peoples and will gather you out of the countries in which you are scattered, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out." 
Ezekiel20:35 And I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there will I enter into judgment with you and contend with you face to face." 
Ezekiel20:36 As I entered into judgment and contended with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I enter into judgment and contend with you, says the Lord God. [Num. 11; Ps. 106:15; I Cor. 10:5-10.]" 
Ezekiel20:37 And I will cause you to pass under the rod [as the shepherd does his sheep when he counts them, and I will count you as Mine and I will constrain you] and bring you into the covenant to which you are permanently bound. [Lev. 27:32.]" 
Ezekiel20:38 And I will purge out and separate from among you the rebels and those who transgress against Me; I will bring them out of the country where they temporarily dwell, but they shall not enter the land of Israel. Then you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord. [Heb. 4:2, 3.]" 
Ezekiel20:39 As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord God: Go, serve every one of you his idols, now and hereafter, if you will not listen to Me! But you shall not profane My holy name any more with your sacrificial gifts and your idols!" 
Ezekiel20:40 For on My holy mountain, on the mountain height of Israel, says the Lord God, there all the house of Israel, all of them in the land, shall serve Me. There will I [graciously] accept them, and there will I require your offerings and the firstfruits and the choicest of your contributions, with all your sacred things." 
Ezekiel20:41 I will accept you [graciously] as a pleasant odor when I lead you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries in which you have been scattered, and I will manifest My holiness among you in the sight of the nations [who will seek Me because of My power displayed in you]. [Eph. 5:2; Phil. 4:18.]" 
Ezekiel20:42 And you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord, when I bring you into the land of Israel, into the country which I lifted up My hand and swore to give to your fathers." 
Ezekiel20:43 And there you shall [earnestly] remember your ways and all your doings with which you have defiled yourselves, and you shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evil deeds which you have done." 
Ezekiel20:44 And you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord, when I deal with you for My name's sake, not according to your evil ways nor according to your corrupt doings, O house of Israel, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel20:45 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel20:46 Son of man, set your face toward the south, preach against the south, and prophesy against the forest land of the South (the Negeb)," 
Ezekiel20:47 And say to the forest of the South (the Negeb), Hear the word of the Lord; Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will kindle a fire in you and it shall devour every green tree in you and every dry tree. The blazing flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall be scorched by it." 
Ezekiel20:48 All flesh shall see that I the Lord have kindled it; it shall not be quenched. 
Ezekiel20:49 Then said I, Ah, Lord God! They are saying of me, Does he not speak in parables and make allegories?" 
Ezekiel21:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel21:2 Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem and direct your [prophetic] word against the holy places; prophesy against the land of Israel" 
Ezekiel21:3 And say to the land of Israel, Thus says the Lord: Behold, I am against you and will draw forth My sword out of its sheath and will cut off from you both the righteous and the wicked." 
Ezekiel21:4 Because I will cut off from you both the righteous and the wicked, therefore shall My sword go out of its sheath against all flesh from the south to the north," 
Ezekiel21:5 And all living shall know, understand, and realize that I the Lord have drawn My sword out of its sheath; it shall not be sheathed any more." 
Ezekiel21:6 Sigh therefore, son of man! With breaking heart and with bitterness shall you sigh before their eyes." 
Ezekiel21:7 And it shall be that when they say to you, Why do you sigh? that you shall answer, Because of the tidings. When it comes, every heart will melt and all hands will be feeble, and every spirit will faint and all knees will be weak as water. Behold, it comes and it shall be fulfilled, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel21:8 Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel21:9 Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord: Say, A sword, a sword is sharpened and also polished;" 
Ezekiel21:10 It [the sword of Babylon] is sharpened that it may make a slaughter, polished that it may flash and glitter like lightning! Shall we then rejoice and make mirth [when such a calamity is impending]? But the rod or scepter of My son [Judah] rejects and views with contempt every tree [that is, since God's promise long ago to Judah is certain, he believes Judah's scepter must remain no matter what power arises against it]! [Gen. 49:9, 10; II Sam. 7:23.]" 
Ezekiel21:11 And the sword [of Babylon] is given to be polished that it may be put to use; the sword is sharpened and polished to be given into the hand of the slayer. 
Ezekiel21:12 Cry and wail, son of man, for it is against My people; it is against all the princes of Israel; they are thrown to the sword along with My people, and terrors by reason of the sword are upon My people. Therefore smite your thigh [in dismay]." 
Ezekiel21:13 For this sword has been tested and proved [on others], and what if the rejecting and despising rod or scepter of Judah shall be no more but completely swept away? says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel21:14 Therefore, son of man, prophesy and smite your hands together and let the sword be doubled, yes, trebled in intensity,the sword for those to be overthrown and pierced through; it is the sword of great slaughter which encompasses them [so that none can escape, even by entering into their inner chambers]." 
Ezekiel21:15 I have set the threatening and glittering sword against all their gates, that their hearts may melt and their stumblings be multiplied. Ah! It is made [to flash] like lightning; it is pointed and sharpened for slaughter." 
Ezekiel21:16 Turn [O sword] and cut right or cut left, whichever way your lust for blood and your edge direct you." 
Ezekiel21:17 I will also clap My hands, and I will cause My wrath to rest. I the Lord have said it." 
Ezekiel21:18 The word of the Lord came to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel21:19 Also, son of man, mark out two ways by which the sword of the king of Babylon may come; both shall come forth from the same land. And make a signpost (a hand); make it at the head of the way to a city." 
Ezekiel21:20 You shall point out a way for the [Babylonian] sword to come to Rabbah [the capital] of the sons of Ammon and to Judah with Jerusalem, the fortified and inaccessible." 
Ezekiel21:21 For the king of Babylon stands at the parting of the way, at the fork of the two ways, to use divination. He shakes the arrows to and fro, he consults the teraphim (household gods), he looks at the liver." 
Ezekiel21:22 In his right hand is the lot marked for Jerusalem: to set battering rams, to open the mouth calling for slaughter, to lift up the voice with a war cry, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up siege mounds, and to build siege towers." 
Ezekiel21:23 And it shall seem like a lying divination to them who have sworn oaths [of allegiance to Nebuchadnezzar]. [Will he now fight against their homeland?] But he will remind them of their guilt and iniquity [in violating those oaths], that they may be caught. [II Chron. 36:10, 13; Ezek. 17:15, 18-21.]" 
Ezekiel21:24 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Because you have made your guilt and iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your doings your sins appear,because, I say, you have come to remembrance, you shall be taken with the [enemy's] hand." 
Ezekiel21:25 And you, O dishonored and wicked one [Zedekiah], the prince of Israel, whose day will come at the time of your final reckoning and punishment," 
Ezekiel21:26 Thus says the Lord God: Remove the [high priest's] miter or headband and take off the [king's] crown; things shall not remain as they have been; the low is to be exalted and the high is to be brought low. 
Ezekiel21:27 I will overthrow, overthrow, overthrow it; this also shall be no more until He comes Whose right it is [to reign in judgment and in righteousness], and I will give it to Him. [Gen. 49:10; Isa. 9:6, 7; 11:1-4; Dan. 7:14; Luke 1:31-33.]" 
Ezekiel21:28 And you, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God concerning the sons of Ammon and concerning their reproach: Say, A sword, a sword is drawn for the slaughter; it is polished to cause it to devour to the uttermost and to flash like lightning," 
Ezekiel21:29 While they see for you false visions, while they divine lies for you to lay you [of Ammon] upon the headless trunks of those who are slain, of the wicked whose day is coming at the time of the final reckoning and punishment." 
Ezekiel21:30 Return [the sword] to its sheath. In the place where you were created, in the land of your origin and of your birth, I will judge you." 
Ezekiel21:31 And I will pour out My indignation upon you [O sons of Ammon]; I will blow upon you with the fire of My wrath and will deliver you into the hand of brutish men, skillful to destroy." 
Ezekiel21:32 You shall be for fuel to the fire; your blood shall be in the midst of the land; you shall be no more remembered, for I the Lord have spoken it. [Jer. 49:1-6; Ezek. 25:1-7; Amos 1:13-15; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Ezekiel21:32 You shall be for fuel to the fire; your blood shall be in the midst of the land; you shall be no more remembered, for I the Lord have spoken it. [Jer. 49:1-6; Ezek. 25:1-7; Amos 1:13-15; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Ezekiel22:1 MOREOVER, THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:2 And you son of man [Ezekiel], will you judge, will you judge the bloodshedding city? Then cause her to know all her abominations," 
Ezekiel22:3 And say, Thus says the Lord God: A city that sheds blood in the midst of her so that her time [of doom] will come, and makes idols [over those who worship them] to defile her!" 
Ezekiel22:4 In your blood which you have shed you have become guilty, and you are defiled by the idols which you have made, and you have caused your time [of judgment and punishment] to draw near and have arrived at the full measure of your years. Therefore have I made you a reproach to the [heathen] nations and a mocking to all countries." 
Ezekiel22:5 Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you, you infamous one, full of tumult." 
Ezekiel22:6 Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been intending to shed blood." 
Ezekiel22:7 In you have they treated father and mother lightly; in the midst of you they have dealt unjustly and by oppression in relation to the stranger; in you they have wronged the fatherless and the widow. 
Ezekiel22:8 You have despised and scorned My sacred things and have profaned My Sabbaths. 
Ezekiel22:9 In you are slanderous men who arouse suspicions to shed blood, and in you are they who have eaten [food offered to idols] upon the mountains; in the midst of you they have committed lewdness." 
Ezekiel22:10 In you men have uncovered their fathers' nakedness [the nakedness of mother or stepmother]; in you they have humbled women who are [ceremonially] unclean [during their periods or because of childbirth]. 
Ezekiel22:11 And one has committed abomination with his neighbor's wife, another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law, and another in you has humbled his sister, his father's daughter." 
Ezekiel22:12 In you they have accepted bribes to shed blood; you have taken [forbidden] interest and [percentage of] increase, and you have greedily gained from your neighbors by oppression and extortion and have forgotten Me, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel22:13 Behold therefore, I have struck My hands together at your dishonest gain which you have made and at the blood which has been in the midst of you." 
Ezekiel22:14 Can your heart and courage endure or can your hands be strong in the days that I shall deal with you? I the Lord have spoken it, and I will do it." 
Ezekiel22:15 And I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you through the countries, and I will consume your filthiness out of you." 
Ezekiel22:16 And you shall be dishonored and profane yourself in the sight of the nations, and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel22:17 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:18 Son of man, the house of Israel has become to Me scum and waste matter. All of them are bronze and tin and iron and lead in the midst of the furnace; they are the dross of silver." 
Ezekiel22:19 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Because you have all become scum and waste matter, behold therefore, I will gather you [O Israel] into the midst of Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel22:20 As they gather silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it in order to melt it, so will I gather you in My anger and in My wrath, and I will put you in and melt you." 
Ezekiel22:21 Yes, I will gather you and blow upon you with the fire of My wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it." 
Ezekiel22:22 As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall you be melted in the midst of it, and you shall know, understand, and realize that I the Lord have poured out My wrath upon you [O Israel]." 
Ezekiel22:23 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:24 Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed nor rained upon in the day of indignation." 
Ezekiel22:25 There is a conspiracy of [Israel's false] prophets in the midst of her, like a roaring lion tearing the prey; they have devoured human lives; they have taken [in their greed] treasure and precious things; they have made many widows in the midst of her." 
Ezekiel22:26 Her priests have done violence to My law and have profaned My holy things. They have made no distinction between the sacred and the secular, neither have they taught people the difference between the unclean and the clean and have hid their eyes from My Sabbaths, and I am profaned among them." 
Ezekiel22:27 Her princes in the midst of her are like wolves rending and devouring the prey, shedding blood and destroying lives to get dishonest gain." 
Ezekiel22:28 And her prophets have daubed them over with whitewash, seeing false visions and divining lies to them, saying, Thus says the Lord God,when the Lord has not spoken." 
Ezekiel22:29 The people of the land have used oppression and extortion and have committed robbery; yes, they have wronged and vexed the poor and needy; yes, they have oppressed the stranger and temporary resident wrongfully." 
Ezekiel22:30 And I sought a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the gap before Me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none." 
Ezekiel22:31 Therefore have I poured out My indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of My wrath; their own way have I repaid [by bringing it] upon their own heads, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel23:1 THE WORD of the Lord came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel23:2 Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother;" 
Ezekiel23:3 And they played the harlot in Egypt. There they played the harlot in their youth; there their bosoms were pressed and there their virgin breasts were handled. 
Ezekiel23:4 And the names of them were Aholah the elder and Aholibah her sister, and they became Mine and they bore sons and daughters. As for the identity of their names, Aholah is Samaria and Aholibah is Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel23:5 And Aholah played the harlot when she was Mine, and she was foolishly fond of her lovers and doted on the Assyrians her neighbors," 
Ezekiel23:6 Who were clothed with blue, governors and deputies, all of them attractive young men, horsemen riding upon horses." 
Ezekiel23:7 And she bestowed her harlotries upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them; and on whomever she doted, with all their idols she defiled herself." 
Ezekiel23:8 Neither has she left her harlotries since the days of Egypt [from where she brought them], for in her youth men there lay with her and handled her girlish bosom, and they poured out their sinful desire upon her." 
Ezekiel23:9 Wherefore I delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians upon whom she doted." 
Ezekiel23:10 These uncovered her nakedness and shame; they took her sons and her daughters and they slew her with the sword, and her name became notorious and a byword among women when judgments were executed upon her." 
Ezekiel23:11 And her sister Aholibah saw this; yet she was more corrupt in her foolish fondness than she, and in her harlotries she was more wanton than her sister in her harlotries." 
Ezekiel23:12 She doted upon the Assyrians,governors and deputies, her neighbors, clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horses, all of them desirable young men." 
Ezekiel23:13 And I saw that she was defiled, that both [of the sisters] took one way." 
Ezekiel23:14 But [Aholibah] carried her harlotries further, for she saw men pictured upon the wall, the pictures of the Chaldeans sketched in bright red pigment," 
Ezekiel23:15 Girded with girdles on their loins, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them looking like officers, a picture of Babylonian men whose native land was Chaldea," 
Ezekiel23:16 Then as soon as she saw [the sketches of] them, she doted on them and sent messengers to them in Chaldea." 
Ezekiel23:17 And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their evil desire; and when she was polluted by them, she [Jerusalem] broke the relationship and pushed them away from her in disgust." 
Ezekiel23:18 So she flaunted her harlotries and exposed her nakedness, and I was disgusted and turned from her, as I had turned in disgust from her sister." 
Ezekiel23:19 Yet she multiplied her harlotries, remembering the days of her youth in which she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel23:20 For she doted upon her paramours there, whose lust was sensuous and vulgar like that of asses or stallions." 
Ezekiel23:21 Thus you yearned for the lewdness of your youth, when those of Egypt handled your bosom on account of your girlish breasts." 
Ezekiel23:22 Therefore, O Aholibah, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will rouse up your lovers against you, from whom you turned in disgust, and I will bring them against you on every side:" 
Ezekiel23:23 The Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them, desirable young men, governors and officers all of them, princes, men of renown and counselors, all of them riding on horses." 
Ezekiel23:24 And they shall come against you with weapons, chariots, wagons and wheels, and with a host of infantry which shall array themselves against you with buckler and shield and helmet round about; and I will commit the judgment and punishment to them, and they shall judge and punish you according to their [heathen] customs in such matters." 
Ezekiel23:25 And I will set My jealous indignation against you, and they shall deal with you in fury; they shall take away your nose and your ears, and those who are left of you shall fall by the sword; they shall take your sons and your daughters, and the remainder shall be devoured by the fire." 
Ezekiel23:26 They shall also strip you [Judah] of your clothes and take away your fine jewels. 
Ezekiel23:27 Thus I will put an end to your lewdness and your harlotry brought from the land of Egypt, so that you will not lift up your eyes to them nor [earnestly] remember Egypt any more." 
Ezekiel23:28 For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you hate, into the hands of those from whom you turned away in disgust." 
Ezekiel23:29 They shall deal with you in hatred and shall take away all [the earnings of] your labor and shall leave you naked and bare, and the nakedness of your harlotry shall be uncovered, both your lewdness and your wanton ways." 
Ezekiel23:30 These things shall be done to you, because you have played the harlot after the nations and because you have defiled yourself with their idols." 
Ezekiel23:31 You have walked in the way of your sister [Samaria, Israel's capital]; therefore I will give her cup into your hand." 
Ezekiel23:32 Thus says the Lord God: You shall drink of your sister's cup which is deep and wide and brimful; you shall be laughed to scorn and held in derision, for it contains much [too much to endure]." 
Ezekiel23:33 You shall be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup of wasting astonishment and horror and desolation, with the cup of your sister Samaria." 
Ezekiel23:34 You shall drink it and drain it out, and then gnaw the pieces of it [which in your drunkenness you have broken] and shall tear your [own] breasts; for I have spoken it, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel23:35 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Because you have forgotten Me [your divine Husband] and cast Me behind your back, therefore bear also [the consequences of] your lewdness and your harlotry." 
Ezekiel23:36 The Lord said, moreover, to me: Son of man, will you judge Aholah and Aholibah? Then declare and show to them their abominations (the detestable, loathsome, and shamefully vile things they do)," 
Ezekiel23:37 For they have committed adultery and blood is on their hands, even with their idols have they committed adultery [against Me]. And they have also caused their sons, whom they bore to Me, to pass through the fire to their images [as an offering of food] to be devoured [by them]." 
Ezekiel23:38 Moreover, this they have done to Me: they have defiled My sanctuary on the same day [of their idolatries] and have profaned My Sabbaths." 
Ezekiel23:39 For when they had slain their children [as offerings] to their idols, then they came the same day into My sanctuary to profane it [by daring to offer sacrifice there also]! And behold, thus have they done in the midst of My house!" 
Ezekiel23:40 And furthermore, you have sent for men to come from afar, to whom a messenger was sent; and behold, they came,those for whom you washed yourself, painted your eyelids, and decked yourself with ornaments;" 
Ezekiel23:41 And you sat upon a stately couch with a table spread before it upon which you set My incense and My oil. 
Ezekiel23:42 And the sound of a careless crowd was with her, and with men of the common sort were brought drunkards from the wilderness, who put bracelets upon the hands of both sisters and beautiful crowns upon their heads." 
Ezekiel23:43 Then I said of the one [Aholah] worn out with adulteries, Will they now play the harlot with her [now that she is old] and she with them?" 
Ezekiel23:44 Yet they went in to her as they go in to a woman who plays the harlot; so they went in to Aholah and to Aholibah [Israel and Judah], the lewd women." 
Ezekiel23:45 And the righteous men, they shall judge and condemn them to the punishment due to adulteresses, to women who shed blood, for they are adulteresses and blood is upon their hands." 
Ezekiel23:46 For thus says the Lord God: I will bring up a host upon them and will give them over to be tossed to and fro and robbed. 
Ezekiel23:47 And the host shall stone them with stones and cut them down with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters and burn up their houses with fire. 
Ezekiel23:48 Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to do after your lewdness." 
Ezekiel23:49 Thus your lewdness shall be recompensed upon you and you shall suffer the penalty for your sinful idolatry; and you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord God. 
Ezekiel24:1 AGAIN IN the ninth year [of King Jehoiachin's captivity by Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon], in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel24:2 Son of man, record the name of the day, even of this same day; the king of Babylon set himself against and assailed Jerusalem this same day." 
Ezekiel24:3 And utter a parable against the rebellious house [of Judah] and say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Put on a pot; put it on and also pour water into it." 
Ezekiel24:4 Put into it the pieces [of meat], all the good pieces, the thigh and the shoulder; fill it with the choice of the bones." 
Ezekiel24:5 Take the choicest of the flock and burn also the unused bones under it, and make it boil well and seethe its bones in [the pot]." 
Ezekiel24:6 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose rust and scum are in it and whose rust and scum have not gone out of it! Take out of it piece by piece, without making any choice." 
Ezekiel24:7 For the blood she has shed remains in the midst of her; she put it upon the bare rock; she did not pour it on the ground to cover it with dust. 
Ezekiel24:8 That it may cause wrath to come up to take vengeance, I have put her blood [guilt for her children sacrificed to Molech] upon the bare rock, that it would not be covered." 
Ezekiel24:9 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Woe to the bloodguilty city! Also I will make the pile [of fuel] great. 
Ezekiel24:10 Heap on wood, kindle the fire and make it hot, boil well the meat and mix the spices, pour out the broth when thick, and let the bones be burned up." 
Ezekiel24:11 Then set [the pot Jerusalem] back empty upon the coals, that the bronze of it may be hot and may glow and the filthiness of it may be melted in it and the rust and scum of it may be consumed." 
Ezekiel24:12 She has wearied herself and Me with toil; yet her great rust and scum go not forth out of her, for however hotly the fire burns, her thick rust and filth will not go out of her by fire." 
Ezekiel24:13 In your filthiness is abomination; [and therefore] because I would have cleansed you and you were not cleansed, you shall not be cleansed from your filthiness any more until I have satisfied My wrath against and upon you." 
Ezekiel24:14 I the Lord have spoken it; it shall come to pass and I will do it; I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I relent; according to your ways and according to your doings shall they judge and punish you, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel24:15 Also the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel24:16 Son of man [Ezekiel], behold, I take away from you the desire of your eyes [your wife] at a single stroke. Yet you shall neither mourn nor weep, neither shall your tears flow." 
Ezekiel24:17 Sigh and groan, but not aloud [be silent]; make no mourning for the dead; bind your turban upon your head and put your shoes on your feet, and do not cover your beard or eat the bread of mourners [furnished by others]." 
Ezekiel24:18 So I spoke to the people in the morning and in the evening my wife died, and I did the next morning as I was commanded." 
Ezekiel24:19 And the people said to me, Will you not tell us what these things are supposed to mean to us, that you are acting as you do?" 
Ezekiel24:20 Then I answered them, The word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel24:21 Speak to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will profane My sanctuary,[in which you take] pride as your strength, the desire of your eyes, and the pity and sympathy of your soul [that you would spare with your life]; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind shall fall by the sword." 
Ezekiel24:22 And you shall do as I [Ezekiel] have done; you shall not cover your beard nor eat the bread of mourning [brought to you by others]," 
Ezekiel24:23 And your turbans shall be upon your heads and your shoes upon your feet; you shall not mourn or weep, but you shall pine away for your iniquities (your guilt) and sigh and groan to one another. [Lev. 26:39.]" 
Ezekiel24:24 Thus Ezekiel is to you a sign; according to all that he has done you shall do. And when this [destruction of the temple] comes, you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord God [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel24:25 And you, son of man, on the day when I take from them [My temple] their strength and their stronghold, their joy and their glory, the delight of their eyes and their hearts' chief desire, and also [take] their sons and their daughters," 
Ezekiel24:26 On that day an escaped fugitive shall come to you to cause you to hear of it [the destruction of Jerusalem] with your own ears. 
Ezekiel24:27 In that day your mouth shall be open to him who has escaped, and you shall speak and be no more speechless, and you shall be a sign to them and they shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel25:1 THE WORD of the Lord came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel25:2 Son of man, set your face toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them." 
Ezekiel25:3 And say to the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord God, for thus says the Lord God: Because you said Aha! over My sanctuary when it was profaned and over the land of Israel when it was made desolate and over the house of Judah when it went into captivity and exile," 
Ezekiel25:4 Therefore behold, I am delivering you to the people of the East for a possession, and they shall set their encampments among you and make their dwellings in your midst; they shall eat your fruit and they shall drink your milk." 
Ezekiel25:5 And I will make Rabbah [your chief city] a stable for camels and [the cities of] the Ammonites a fold for flocks. And you shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel25:6 For thus says the Lord God: Because you have clapped your hands and stamped with the feet and rejoiced [in heart] with all the contempt, malice, and spite that is in you against the land of Israel," 
Ezekiel25:7 Therefore behold, I have stretched out My hand against you and will hand you over for a prey and a spoil to the nations, and I will cut you off from the peoples and will cause you to perish and be lost out of the countries; I will destroy you. Then will you know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]. [Jer. 49:1-6; Ezek. 21:28-32; Amos 1:13-15; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Ezekiel25:7 Therefore behold, I have stretched out My hand against you and will hand you over for a prey and a spoil to the nations, and I will cut you off from the peoples and will cause you to perish and be lost out of the countries; I will destroy you. Then will you know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]. [Jer. 49:1-6; Ezek. 21:28-32; Amos 1:13-15; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Ezekiel25:8 Thus says the Lord God: Because Moab says, as does Seir [Edom], Behold, the house of Judah is like all the [heathen] nations," 
Ezekiel25:9 Therefore behold, I will lay open the flank of Moab from the cities, from its cities on its frontiers and in every quarter, the glory of the country, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim." 
Ezekiel25:10 I will give it along with the children of Ammon to the people of the East for a possession, that it and the children of Ammon may not be [any more seriously] remembered among the nations." 
Ezekiel25:11 And I will execute judgments and punishments upon Moab, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]. [Isa. 15, 16; Jer. 48; Amos 2:1-3; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Ezekiel25:11 And I will execute judgments and punishments upon Moab, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]. [Isa. 15, 16; Jer. 48; Amos 2:1-3; Zeph. 2:8-11.]" 
Ezekiel25:12 Thus says the Lord God: Because Edom has dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance and has greatly offended and has become doubly guilty by taking revenge upon them," 
Ezekiel25:13 Therefore thus says the Lord God: I will also stretch out My hand against Edom and will cut off and root out man and beast from it, and I will make it desolate; from Teman even to Dedan they shall fall by the sword." 
Ezekiel25:14 And I will lay My vengeance upon Edom by the hand of My people Israel, and they shall do upon Edom according to My anger and according to My wrath, and they shall know My vengeance, says the Lord God. [Isa. 34; Ezek. 35; Amos 1:11, 12; Obad.]" 
Ezekiel25:14 And I will lay My vengeance upon Edom by the hand of My people Israel, and they shall do upon Edom according to My anger and according to My wrath, and they shall know My vengeance, says the Lord God. [Isa. 34; Ezek. 35; Amos 1:11, 12; Obad.]" 
Ezekiel25:15 Thus says the Lord God: Because the Philistines have dealt revengefully and have taken vengeance contemptuously, with malice and spite in their hearts, to destroy in perpetual enmity," 
Ezekiel25:16 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will stretch out My hand against the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites [an immigration in Philistia] and destroy the remainder of the seacoast." 
Ezekiel25:17 And I will execute great vengeance upon them with wrathful rebukes and chastisements, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord, when I lay My vengeance upon them. [Isa. 14:29-31; Jer. 47; Amos 1:6-8; Zeph. 2:4-7; Zech. 9:5-7.]" 
Ezekiel25:17 And I will execute great vengeance upon them with wrathful rebukes and chastisements, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord, when I lay My vengeance upon them. [Isa. 14:29-31; Jer. 47; Amos 1:6-8; Zeph. 2:4-7; Zech. 9:5-7.]" 
Ezekiel26:1 AND IN the eleventh year, on the first day of the month [after the carrying away of King Jehoiachin], the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel26:2 Son of man, because Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha! She is broken that has been the gate of the people; she is open to me [Tyre]; I shall become full now that she is desolate and a wasteland," 
Ezekiel26:3 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, O Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against you as the sea mounts up by its waves." 
Ezekiel26:4 And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers; I will also scrape her dust from her and make her bare like the top of a rock. 
Ezekiel26:5 Her island in the midst of the sea shall become a place for the spreading of nets, for I have spoken it, says the Lord God; and she shall become a prey and a spoil to the nations." 
Ezekiel26:6 And Tyre's daughters [her towns and villages on the mainland] in the level place shall be slain by the sword, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel26:7 For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will bring from the north upon Tyre Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, with horses and chariots and with horsemen and a host of many people." 
Ezekiel26:8 He shall slay with the sword your daughters [the towns and villages] in the level area [on the mainland], and he shall make a fortified wall against you and cast up a siege mound against you and raise up a roof of bucklers and shields as a defense against you." 
Ezekiel26:9 And he shall set his battering engines in shock against your walls, and with his axes he will break down your towers." 
Ezekiel26:10 Because of the great number of [Nebuchadrezzar's] horses, their dust will cover you; your walls [O Tyre] will shake at the noise of the horsemen and of the wagon wheels and of the chariots, when he enters into your gates as men enter into the city in whose walls there has been made a breach." 
Ezekiel26:11 With the hoofs of his horses [Nebuchadrezzar] will trample all your streets; he will slay your people with the sword and your strong pillars or obelisks will fall to the ground. 
Ezekiel26:12 And [your adversaries] shall make a spoil of your riches and make booty of your merchandise. And they shall break down your walls and destroy your pleasant houses, and they shall lay the stones and the timber and the very dust from your demolished city out in the midst of the water [between the island and the mainland city site to make a causeway]." 
Ezekiel26:13 And I will cause the noise of your songs to cease, and the sound of your lyres shall be no more heard." 
Ezekiel26:14 And I will make you [Tyre] a bare rock; you shall be a place upon which to spread nets; you shall never be rebuilt, for I the Lord have spoken it, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel26:15 Thus says the Lord God to Tyre: Shall not the isles and coastlands shake at the sound of your fall when the wounded groan, when the slaughter is made in the midst of you?" 
Ezekiel26:16 Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones and lay aside their robes and strip off their embroidered garments; they shall clothe themselves with tremblings; they shall sit upon the ground and shall tremble every moment and be astonished at you and appalled. 
Ezekiel26:17 They shall take up a lamentation over you and say to you, How you are destroyed and vanished, O renowned city that was won from the seas and inhabited by seafaring men, renowned city that was mighty on the sea, she and her inhabitants who caused their terror to fall upon all who dwell there!" 
Ezekiel26:18 Now the isles and coastlands tremble in the day of your fall; yes, the isles that are in the sea are troubled and dismayed at your departure." 
Ezekiel26:19 For thus says the Lord God: When I make you a desolate city like the cities that are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep over you and great waters cover you," 
Ezekiel26:20 Then I will thrust you down with those who descend into the pit (the place of the dead) to the people of olden times, and I will make you [Tyre] to dwell in the lower world like the places that were desolate of old, with those who go down to the pit, that you be not inhabited or shed forth your glory and renown in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel26:21 I will make you a terror [bring you to a dreadful end] and you shall be no more. Though you be sought, yet you shall never be found again, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel27:1 THE WORD of the Lord came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel27:2 Now you, son of man, take up a lamentation over Tyre," 
Ezekiel27:3 And say to Tyre, O you who dwell at the entrance to the sea, who are merchant of the peoples of many islands and coastlands, thus says the Lord God: O Tyre, you have thought and said, I am perfect in beauty." 
Ezekiel27:4 Your borders are in the heart of the seas; your builders have perfected your beauty. 
Ezekiel27:5 They have made all your planks and boards of fir trees from Senir [a peak of Mount Hermon]; they have taken a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you. 
Ezekiel27:6 Of the oaks of Bashan they have made your oars; they have made your deck and benches of boxwood from the coasts of Cyprus, inlaid with ivory." 
Ezekiel27:7 Of fine linen with embroidered work from Egypt was your sail, that it might be an ensign for you; blue and purple from the coasts of Elishah [of Asia Minor] was the [ship's] awning which covered you." 
Ezekiel27:8 The inhabitants of Sidon and [the island] of Arvad were your oarsmen; your skilled and wise men, O Tyre, were in you; they were your pilots." 
Ezekiel27:9 The old men of Gebal [a city north of Sidon] and its skilled and wise men in you were your calkers; all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you to deal in your merchandise and trading. 
Ezekiel27:10 Persia and Lud and Put were in your army as your men of war; they hung the shield and helmet in you; they gave you beauty and splendor. 
Ezekiel27:11 The men of Arvad with your army were upon your walls round about and valorous men [of Gamad] were in your towers; they hung their shields upon your walls round about; they have perfected your beauty and splendor. 
Ezekiel27:12 Tarshish [in Spain] carried on traffic with you because of the abundance of your riches of all kinds; with silver, iron, tin, and lead they traded for your wares." 
Ezekiel27:13 Javan (Greece), Tubal, and Meshech [in the mountainous region between the Black and Caspian Seas] traded with you. They exchanged the lives of men [taken as slaves] and vessels of bronze for your merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:14 They of the house of Togarmah (Armenia) traded for your wares with [chariot] horses, cavalry horses, and mules." 
Ezekiel27:15 The men of Dedan [in Arabia] traded with you; many islands and coastlands were your own markets; they brought you in payment or as presents ivory tusks and ebony. 
Ezekiel27:16 Aram (Syria or Mesopotamia) and Edom traded with you because of the multitude of the wares of your making. They exchanged for your merchandise emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and agate or rubies." 
Ezekiel27:17 Judah and the land of Israel, they were your traders; they exchanged in your market wheat of Minnith [in Ammon], olives or early figs, honey, oil, and balm." 
Ezekiel27:18 Damascus traded with you because of the abundance of supplies of your handiworks and the immense wealth of every kind, with wine of Helbon [Aleppo] and white wool [of Sachar in Syria]." 
Ezekiel27:19 Vedan also and [Arabic] Javan traded with yarn from Uzal [in Arabia] for your wares; wrought iron, cassia, and calamus were exchanged for your merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:20 Dedan supplied you with precious [saddle] cloths for riding. 
Ezekiel27:21 Arabia and all the princes of Kedar, they were the merchants in lambs, rams, and goats favored by you; in these they traded with you." 
Ezekiel27:22 The merchants of Sheba and Raamah [in Arabia] traded with you; they exchanged for your wares the choicest of all kinds of spices and all precious stones and gold. 
Ezekiel27:23 Haran and Canneh and Eden [in Mesopotamia], the merchants of Sheba [on the Euphrates], Asshur, and Chilmad [near Bagdad] were your traders." 
Ezekiel27:24 These traded with you in choice fabrics, in bales of garments of blue and embroidered work, and in treasures of many colored rich damask and carpets bound with cords and made firm; in these they traded with you." 
Ezekiel27:25 The ships of Tarshish were your caravans for your merchandise, and you were replenished [Tyre] and were heavily loaded and made an imposing fleet [in your location] in the heart of the seas." 
Ezekiel27:26 Your rowers have brought you out into great and deep waters; the east wind has broken and wrecked you in the heart of the seas. 
Ezekiel27:27 Your riches, your wares, your merchandise, your oarsmen and your pilots, your caulkers, your dealers in merchandise, and all your men of war who are in you, with all your company which is in your midst, sink in the heart of the seas on the day of your ruin!" 
Ezekiel27:28 The waves and the countryside shake at the [piercing] sound of the [hopeless, wailing] cry of your pilots." 
Ezekiel27:29 And down from their ships come all who handle the oar. The mariners and all the pilots of the sea stand upon the shore 
Ezekiel27:30 And are heard wailing loudly over you, and they cry bitterly. They cast up dust on their heads; they wallow in ashes," 
Ezekiel27:31 And they make themselves [utterly] bald for you and gird themselves with sackcloth, and they weep over you in bitterness of heart and with bitter mourning and wailing." 
Ezekiel27:32 And in their wailing they take up a lamentation for you and lament over you, saying, Who was ever like Tyre, the destroyed (the annihilated), [who has become so still] in the heart of the sea?" 
Ezekiel27:33 When your wares came forth from the seas, you met the desire, the demand, and the necessities of many people; you enriched the kings of the earth with your abundant wealth and merchandise." 
Ezekiel27:34 Now you are shattered by the seas in the depths of the waters; your merchandise and all your crew have gone down with you. 
Ezekiel27:35 All the inhabitants of the isles and coastlands are astonished and appalled at you, and their kings are horribly frightened and shudder greatly; their faces quiver." 
Ezekiel27:36 The merchants among the people hiss over you [with malicious joy]; you have become a horror and a source of terrors. You shall be no more [forever]. 
Ezekiel28:1 THE WORD of the Lord came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel28:2 Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord God: Because your heart is lifted up and you have said and thought, I am a god, I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas; yet you are only man [weak, feeble, made of earth] and not God, though you imagine yourself to be almost more than mortal with your mind as the mind of God;" 
Ezekiel28:3 Indeed, you are [imagining yourself] wiser than Daniel; there is no secret [you think] that is hidden from you;" 
Ezekiel28:3 Indeed, you are [imagining yourself] wiser than Daniel; there is no secret [you think] that is hidden from you;" 
Ezekiel28:4 With your own wisdom and with your own understanding you have gotten you riches and power and have brought gold and silver into your treasuries; 
Ezekiel28:5 By your great wisdom and by your traffic you have increased your riches and power, and your heart is proud and lifted up because of your wealth;" 
Ezekiel28:6 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Because you have imagined your mind as the mind of God [having thoughts and purposes suitable only to God Himself], [Obad. 3.]" 
Ezekiel28:7 Behold therefore, I am bringing strangers upon you, the most terrible of the nations, and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom [O Tyre], and they shall defile your splendor." 
Ezekiel28:8 They shall bring you down to the pit [of destruction] and you shall die the [many] deaths of all the Tyrians that are slain in the heart of the seas. 
Ezekiel28:9 Will you still say, I am a god, before him who slays you? But you are only a man [made of earth] and no god in the hand of him who wounds and profanes you." 
Ezekiel28:10 You shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers, for I have spoken it, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel28:11 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel28:12 Son of man, take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre and say to him, Thus says the Lord God: You are the full measure and pattern of exactness [giving the finishing touch to all that constitutes completeness], full of wisdom and perfect in beauty." 
Ezekiel28:13 You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering, the carnelian, topaz, jasper, chrysolite, beryl, onyx, sapphire, carbuncle, and emerald; and your settings and your sockets and engravings were wrought in gold. On the day that you were created they were prepared. [Gen. 3:14, 15; Isa. 14:12-15; Matt. 16:23.]" 
Ezekiel28:14 You were the anointed cherub that covers with overshadowing [wings], and I set you so. You were upon the holy mountain of God; you walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire [like the paved work of gleaming sapphire stone upon which the God of Israel walked on Mount Sinai]. [Exod. 24:10.]" 
Ezekiel28:15 You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created until iniquity and guilt were found in you. 
Ezekiel28:16 Through the abundance of your commerce you were filled with lawlessness and violence, and you sinned; therefore I cast you out as a profane thing from the mountain of God and the guardian cherub drove you out from the midst of the stones of fire." 
Ezekiel28:17 Your heart was proud and lifted up because of your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground; I lay you before kings, that they might gaze at you." 
Ezekiel28:18 You have profaned your sanctuaries by the multitude of your iniquities and the enormity of your guilt, by the unrighteousness of your trade. Therefore I have brought forth a fire from your midst; it has consumed you, and I have reduced you to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all who looked at you." 
Ezekiel28:19 All who know you among the people are astonished and appalled at you; you have come to a horrible end and shall never return to being. [Isa. 23; Joel 3:4-8; Amos 1:9, 10; Zech. 9:3, 4.]" 
Ezekiel28:19 All who know you among the people are astonished and appalled at you; you have come to a horrible end and shall never return to being. [Isa. 23; Joel 3:4-8; Amos 1:9, 10; Zech. 9:3, 4.]" 
Ezekiel28:19 All who know you among the people are astonished and appalled at you; you have come to a horrible end and shall never return to being. [Isa. 23; Joel 3:4-8; Amos 1:9, 10; Zech. 9:3, 4.]" 
Ezekiel28:20 Again the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel28:21 Son of man, set your face toward Sidon and prophesy against her." 
Ezekiel28:22 And say, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I will show forth My glory and be glorified in the midst of you. And they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord when I execute judgments and punishments in her, and am set apart and separated and My holiness is manifested in her." 
Ezekiel28:23 For I will send pestilence into her and blood into her streets, and the wounded shall be judged and fall by the sword in the midst of her on every side, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel28:24 And there shall be no more a brier to prick the house of Israel or a hurting thorn of all those around them who have treated them with contempt, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord God [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel28:25 Thus says the Lord God: When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and I shall be set apart and separated and My holiness made apparent in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their own land which I gave to My servant Jacob." 
Ezekiel28:26 And they shall dwell safely in it and shall build houses and plant vineyards; yes, they shall dwell securely and with confidence when I have executed judgments and punishments upon all those round about them who have despised and trodden upon them and pushed them away, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord their God [their Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel29:1 IN THE tenth year [of the captivity of King Jehoiachin by the king of Babylon], in the tenth [month], on the twelfth [day] of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel29:2 Son of man, set your face toward Pharaoh king of Egypt and prophesy against him and against all Egypt." 
Ezekiel29:3 Say, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great monster [of sluggish and unwieldy strength] that lies in the midst of his [delta] streams, [boastfully] declaring, My river Nile is my own and I have made it for myself." 
Ezekiel29:4 But I will put hooks in your jaws [O Egyptian dragon] and I will cause the fish of your rivers to stick to your scales, and I will draw you up out of the midst of your streams with all the fish of your streams which stick to your scales." 
Ezekiel29:5 And I will cast you forth into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your rivers; you shall fall upon the open field and not be gathered up or buried. I have given you for food to the [wild] beasts of the earth and the birds of the heavens." 
Ezekiel29:6 And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service], because they have been a [deceitful] staff [made of fragile] reeds to the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel29:7 When they grasped you with the hand and leaned upon you, you broke and tore their whole shoulder, and [by injuring their muscles made them so stiff and rigid that] they could do no more than stand." 
Ezekiel29:8 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will bring a sword upon you and cut off man and beast from you," 
Ezekiel29:9 And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste. And they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]. Because you have said, The river is mine and I have made it," 
Ezekiel29:10 Behold therefore, I am against you and against your streams, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter [plundered] waste and desolation [of subjection] from [northern] Migdol to [southern] Syene, even as far as the border of Ethiopia." 
Ezekiel29:11 No foot of man shall pass through it [in travel], no foot of beast shall pass through it [in trade with other countries], neither shall [Egypt] be [truly] inhabited [again] for forty years." 
Ezekiel29:12 And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation [plundered and reduced to subjection] in the midst of desolated (plundered and reduced to subjection) countries, and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and will disperse them through the countries." 
Ezekiel29:13 Yet thus says the Lord God: At the end of [their] forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples among whom they were scattered, [Jer. 46:25, 26.]" 
Ezekiel29:14 And I will reverse the captivity of Egypt [as I will that of Israel] and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros [under Egypt], the land of their origin, and they shall be there a lowly kingdom." 
Ezekiel29:15 It shall be the lowliest of the kingdoms, neither shall it exalt itself any more above the nations; I will diminish [the Egyptians] so they shall never again rule over the nations." 
Ezekiel29:16 And never again shall Egypt have the confidence and be the reliance of the house of Israel; their iniquity will be brought to remembrance whenever [Israel] looks toward them [for help]. They shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord God [Who demands loyalty and obedient service]. 
Ezekiel29:17 In the twenty-seventh year [after King Jehoiachin was taken to Babylon], in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel29:18 Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to render heavy service [at My bidding] against Tyre; every [soldier's] head became bald and every shoulder was worn and peeled [with carrying loads of earth and stones for siege works]. Yet he had no remuneration from Tyre [in proportion to the time and labor expended in the thirteen years' siege], either for himself or his army, for the work that he had done against it [for Me]." 
Ezekiel29:19 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall carry off her great mass of people and of things (her riches) and take her spoil and take her prey, and it shall be the wages for his army." 
Ezekiel29:20 I have given him the land of Egypt for his labor with which he served [against Tyre] because they did it for Me, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel29:21 In that day will I cause a horn to spring forth to the house of Israel and I will open your lips among them, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel30:1 THE WORD of the Lord came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel30:2 Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God: Wail, Alas for the day!" 
Ezekiel30:3 For the day is near, even the day of the Lord is near, a cloudy day; it shall be the time [of doom] for the nations." 
Ezekiel30:4 And a sword shall come upon Egypt, and anguish and great sorrow shall be in Ethiopia (Cush), when the slain fall in Egypt and they [of Babylon] carry away her great mass of people and of things and her foundations are broken down." 
Ezekiel30:5 Ethiopia (Cush) and Put, Lud and all the mingled people [foreigners living in Egypt], Cub (Lub, Libya) and the children of the land of the covenant [the Jews who had taken refuge in Egypt] shall fall with [the Egyptians] by the sword." 
Ezekiel30:6 Thus says the Lord: They also who uphold or lean upon and are supported by Egypt shall fall, and the pride of her power shall come down; from Migdol [in the north] to Syene [in the south] they shall fall within her by the sword, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel30:7 And they shall be desolated in the midst of countries that are desolated, and her cities shall be in the midst of cities that are wasted [by plunder and subjection]." 
Ezekiel30:8 And they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service], when I have set a fire in Egypt and all her helpers are broken and destroyed." 
Ezekiel30:9 In that day shall [swift] messengers go forth from Me in ships to terrify the careless and unsuspecting Ethiopians, and there shall be anguish and great sorrow upon them as in the day of Egypt's [doom], for behold, [their day] comes!" 
Ezekiel30:10 Thus says the Lord God: I will also make the tumult and the wealth and the large population of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. 
Ezekiel30:11 He and his people with him, the [most] terrible of the nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land, and they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain." 
Ezekiel30:12 And I will make the [artificial] streams [of the Nile delta] dry and will sell the land into the hand of evil men, and I will make the land desolate, and all that is in it, by the hand of strangers. I the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service] have spoken it." 
Ezekiel30:13 Thus says the Lord God: I will also destroy the idols and I will put an end to the images in Noph or Memphis, and there shall be no longer a prince of the land of Egypt. And I will put fear in the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel30:14 And I will make Pathros desolate and will set fire to Zoan and will execute judgments and punishments upon No or Thebes. 
Ezekiel30:15 And I will pour My wrath upon Pelusium, the stronghold of Egypt, and I will cut off the tumult, the prosperity and the population of No or Thebes." 
Ezekiel30:16 And I will set fire to Egypt; Pelusium shall have great anguish and No or Thebes shall be torn open and Noph or Memphis shall have adversaries in the daytime and all the day long. 
Ezekiel30:17 The young men of Aven or On and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword, and the [women and children] shall go into captivity." 
Ezekiel30:18 At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself and be dark when I break there the yokes and dominion of Egypt, and the pride of her power shall come to an end. As for her, a cloud [of calamities] shall cover her and her daughters shall go into captivity." 
Ezekiel30:19 Thus will I execute judgments and punishments upon Egypt. Then shall they know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel30:20 And in the eleventh year [after King Jehoiachin was taken to Babylon], in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel30:21 Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and behold, it has not been bound up to heal it by binding it with a bandage, to make it strong to hold and wield the sword." 
Ezekiel30:22 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt and will break his arms, both the strong one and the one which was broken, and I will cause the sword to fall from his hand." 
Ezekiel30:23 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and will disperse them throughout the countries. 
Ezekiel30:24 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put My sword in his hand, but I will break Pharaoh's arms and he will groan before [Nebuchadrezzar] with the groanings of a mortally wounded man." 
Ezekiel30:25 But I will strengthen and hold up the arms of the king of Babylon and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down, and they [of Egypt] shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service], when I put My sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel30:26 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries, and they shall know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel31:1 AND IN the eleventh year [after King Jehoiachin was taken captive to Babylon], in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel31:2 Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and to his multitude: Whom are you like in your greatness?" 
Ezekiel31:3 Behold, [I will liken you to] Assyria, a cedar in Lebanon, with fair branches and with forestlike shade and of high stature, with its top among the thick boughs [even among the clouds]." 
Ezekiel31:4 The waters nourished it; the deep made it grow tall; its rivers ran round about its planting, sending out its streams to all the trees of the forest [the other nations]." 
Ezekiel31:5 Therefore it towered higher than all the trees of the forest; its boughs were multiplied and its branches became long, because there was much water when they were shot forth." 
Ezekiel31:6 All the birds of the heavens made their nests in its boughs, and under its branches all the wild beasts of the field brought forth their young and under its shadow dwelt all of the great nations." 
Ezekiel31:7 Thus was it beautiful in its greatness, in the length of its branches, for its root was by many and great waters." 
Ezekiel31:8 The cedars in the garden of God could not hide or rival it; the cypress trees did not have boughs like it and the plane trees did not have branches like it, nor was any tree in the garden of God like it in its beauty." 
Ezekiel31:9 I made it beautiful with the multitude of its branches, so that all the trees of Eden that were in the garden of God envied it [Assyria]." 
Ezekiel31:10 Therefore thus said the Lord God: Because it is exalted in stature and has set its top among the thick boughs and the clouds, and its heart is proud of its height, [II Kings 18:31-35.]" 
Ezekiel31:11 I will even deliver it into the hand of a mighty one of the nations; he shall surely deal with it. I have driven it out for its wickedness and lawlessness. 
Ezekiel31:12 And strangers, the most terrible of the nations, will cut it off and leave it; upon the mountains and in all the valleys its branches will fall and its boughs will lie broken by all the watercourses of the land, and all the peoples of the earth will go down out of its shade and leave it." 
Ezekiel31:13 Upon its ruins all the birds of the heavens will dwell, and all the wild beasts of the field will be upon [Assyria's fallen] branches." 
Ezekiel31:14 All this is so that none of the trees by the waters may exalt themselves because of their height or shoot up their top among the thick boughs and the clouds, and that none of their mighty ones should stand upon [their own estimate of] themselves for their height, all that drink water. For they are all delivered over to death, to the lower world, in the midst of the children of men, with those who go down to the pit (the grave)." 
Ezekiel31:15 Thus says the Lord God: When [Assyria] goes down to Sheol (the place of the dead), I will cause a mourning; I will cover the deep for it and I will restrain its floods, and the many waters [that contributed to its prosperity] will be stayed; and I will cause Lebanon to be in black gloom and to mourn for it, and all the trees of the field, dismayed, will faint because of it." 
Ezekiel31:16 I will make the nations quake at the sound of its fall when I cast it down to Sheol with those who descend into the pit, and all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all [the trees] that drink water, will be comforted in the netherworld [at Assyria's downfall]." 
Ezekiel31:17 They also shall go down into Sheol with it to those who were slain by the sword,yes, those who were its arm, who dwelt under its shadow in the midst of the nations." 
Ezekiel31:18 To whom [O Egypt] among the trees of Eden are you thus like in glory and in greatness? Yet you [also] shall be brought down with the trees of Eden to the netherworld. You shall lie among the uncircumcised heathen with those who are slain by the sword. This is how it shall be with Pharaoh and all the multitude of his strength, his tumult, and his store [of wealth and glory], says the Lord God. [Ezek. 28:10; 32:19.]" 
Ezekiel32:1 IN THE twelfth year [after King Jehoiachin of Judah was taken into exile by the king of Babylon], in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel32:2 Son of man, take up a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt and say to him, You have likened [yourself] to a young lion, leader of the nations, but you are like a [monster] dragon in the seas; you break forth in your rivers and trouble the waters with your feet, and you make foul their rivers [the sources of their prosperity]." 
Ezekiel32:3 Thus says the Lord God: I will therefore throw out My net over you with a host of many peoples, and they shall bring you up in My dragnet." 
Ezekiel32:4 Then I will leave you [Egypt] upon the shore; I will cast you on the open field and will cause all the birds of the heavens to settle upon you, and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with you." 
Ezekiel32:5 And I will scatter your flesh upon the mountains and fill the valleys with your high heap of corpses and their worms. 
Ezekiel32:6 I will also water with your flowing blood the land, even to the mountains, and the hollows and water channels shall be full of you." 
Ezekiel32:7 And when I have extinguished you, I will cover the heavens [of Egypt] and make their stars dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud and the moon shall not give her light." 
Ezekiel32:8 All the bright lights of the heavens I will make dark over you and set darkness upon your land, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel32:9 I will also trouble and vex the hearts of many peoples when I bring your breaking and trembling and destruction and carry you captive among the nations, into the countries which you have not known." 
Ezekiel32:10 I will make many peoples amazed and appalled at you [Egypt], and their kings shall shudder and be horribly afraid because of you when I brandish My sword before them; they shall tremble every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of your downfall." 
Ezekiel32:11 For thus says the Lord God: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you. 
Ezekiel32:12 I will cause your multitude, your tumult, and your store [of wealth, strength, and glory] to fall by the swords of the mighty,the most terrible among the nations are they all. And they shall bring to nothing the pomp and pride of Egypt, and all its multitude [with its activity and its wealth in every sphere] shall be destroyed." 
Ezekiel32:13 I will destroy also all its beasts from beside many and great waters, and no foot of man shall trouble them any more, nor shall the hoofs of beasts trouble them." 
Ezekiel32:14 Then will I make their waters sink down (subside, be quiet, and become clear); their rivers I will cause to run [slowly and smoothly] like oil, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel32:15 When I make the land of Egypt desolate, and the country is stripped and destitute of all that of which it was full when I smite all those who dwell in it, then will they know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who requires and calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel32:16 This is the lamentation with which they shall intone or chant the lament for her; the daughters of the nations shall chant their lament with it; over Egypt and over all her multitude, her tumult, and her wealth in every sphere shall they chant it, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel32:17 In the twelfth year [after King Jehoiachin of Judah was taken into exile], on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel32:18 Son of man, wail over the multitude of Egypt and cast them down, even her and the daughters of the famous and majestic nations, to the netherworld, with those who go down to the pit;" 
Ezekiel32:19 Whom [among them] do you surpass in beauty? Go down and be laid with the uncircumcised (the heathen). 
Ezekiel32:20 They shall fall in the midst of those who are slain by the sword; she [Egypt] is delivered to the sword; they draw her down [to her judgment], and all her multitudes [with their noise and stores]." 
Ezekiel32:21 The strong among the mighty shall speak of [Pharaoh] out of the midst of Sheol (the place of the dead, the netherworld) with those who helped him; they are gone down; they lie still, even the uncircumcised (the heathen) slain by the sword." 
Ezekiel32:22 Assyria is there and all her company; their graves are round about her, all of them slain, fallen by the sword," 
Ezekiel32:23 Whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit and whose company is round about her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who caused terror to spread in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:24 Elam [an auxiliary of Assyria] is there and all her multitude round about her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who have gone down uncircumcised into the netherworld, who caused their terror to spread in the land of the living and have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit." 
Ezekiel32:25 They have set her a bed (a sepulcher) among the slain with all her multitude,their graves round about her, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, for their terror had spread in the land of the living, and they henceforth bear their shame with those who go down to the pit; they are laid in the midst of the slain." 
Ezekiel32:26 Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude are there; their graves are round about [Pharaoh], all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, for they caused their terror to be spread in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:27 And they shall not lie with the mighty who have fallen of the uncircumcised [and] who have gone down to Sheol (the place of the dead, the netherworld) with their weapons of war, whose swords were laid [with honors] under their heads and whose iniquities are upon their bones, for they caused their terror to spread in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:28 But you [Meshech and Tubal] shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised and shall lie [without honors] with those who are slain with the sword. 
Ezekiel32:29 Edom is there, her kings and all her princes, who for all their might are laid with those who were slain by the sword; they shall lie with the uncircumcised (the heathen) and with those who go down to the pit." 
Ezekiel32:30 The princes of the north are there, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who have gone down with the slain; for all the terror which they caused by their might they are put to shame, and they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword and henceforth bear their shame with those who go down to the pit." 
Ezekiel32:31 When Pharaoh sees them, he will comfort himself for all his multitude,even Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel32:32 For I have put his and My terror in the land of the living, and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised (the heathen) with those slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord God. [Isa. 19; Jer. 46; Zech. 14:18, 19.]" 
Ezekiel33:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel33:2 Son of man, speak to your people [the Israelite captives in Babylon] and say to them, When I bring the sword upon a land and the people of the land take a man from among them and make him their watchman," 
Ezekiel33:3 If when he sees the sword coming upon the land, he blows the trumpet and warns the people," 
Ezekiel33:4 Then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet and does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head." 
Ezekiel33:5 He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning; his blood shall be upon himself. But he who takes warning shall save his life. 
Ezekiel33:6 But if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet and the people are not warned, and the sword comes and takes any one of them, he is taken away in and for his perversity and iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand." 
Ezekiel33:7 So you, son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at My mouth and give them warning from Me." 
Ezekiel33:8 When I say to the wicked, O wicked man, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his perversity and iniquity, but his blood will I require at your hand." 
Ezekiel33:9 But if you warn the wicked to turn from his evil way and he does not turn from his evil way, he shall die in his iniquity, but you will have saved your life." 
Ezekiel33:10 And you, son of man, say to the house of Israel, Thus you have said: Truly our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we waste away because of them; how then can we live?" 
Ezekiel33:11 Say to them, As I live, says the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but rather that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn back, turn back from your evil ways, for why will you die, O house of Israel?" 
Ezekiel33:12 And you, son of man, say to your people, The uprightness and justice of the [uncompromisingly] righteous shall not deliver him in the day of his transgression; and as for the wicked lawlessness of the wicked lawless, he shall not fall because of it in the day that he turns from his wickedness, neither shall the rigidly upright and just be able to live because of his past righteousness in the day that he sins and misses the mark [in keeping in harmony and right standing with God]." 
Ezekiel33:13 When I shall say to the [uncompromisingly] righteous that he shall surely live, and he trusts to his own righteousness [to save him] and commits iniquity (heinous sin), all his righteous deeds shall not be [seriously] remembered; but for his perversity and iniquity that he has committed he shall die." 
Ezekiel33:14 Again, when I have said to the wicked, You shall surely die, if he turns from his sin and does that which is lawful and right," 
Ezekiel33:15 If the wicked restores [what he took in] pledge, gives back what he had taken in robbery, walks in the statutes of life [right relationship with God], without committing iniquity, he shall surely live; he shall not die." 
Ezekiel33:16 None of his sins that he has committed shall be [seriously] remembered against him; he has done that which is lawful and right; he shall surely live. 
Ezekiel33:17 Yet your people say, The way of the Lord is not perfect or even just; but as for them, it is their own way that is not perfect or even just." 
Ezekiel33:18 When the righteous turns back from his [uncompromising] righteousness and commits perverseness and iniquity, he shall even die in and because of it." 
Ezekiel33:19 But if the wicked turns back from his wickedness and does what is lawful and right, he shall live because of it." 
Ezekiel33:20 Yet you say, The way of the Lord is not perfect or [even] just. O you house of Israel, I will judge you, every one according to his own ways!" 
Ezekiel33:21 In the twelfth year of our captivity [in Babylon], in the tenth [month], on the fifth [day] of the month, a man who had escaped out of Jerusalem came to me [Ezekiel], saying, The city [Jerusalem] is taken." 
Ezekiel33:22 Now the hand of the Lord had been upon me in the evening before this one who had escaped came, and He had opened my mouth [in readiness for the fugitives] coming to me in the morning, and my mouth was opened and I was no longer dumb." 
Ezekiel33:23 Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel33:24 Son of man, those [back in Palestine] who inhabit those wastes of the ground of Israel are saying, Abraham was only one man and he inherited the land, but we are many; the land is surely given to us to possess as our inheritance." 
Ezekiel33:25 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord God: You eat meat with the blood [as an idolatrous rite] and lift up your eyes to your [filthy] idols and shed blood; shall you then possess the land? [Gen. 9:4; Lev. 3:17; 7:27; Acts 15:28, 29.]" 
Ezekiel33:26 You stand upon your sword [as your dependence]; you commit abominations and each of you defiles your neighbor's wife; shall you then possess the land? 
Ezekiel33:27 Say this to them, Thus says the Lord God: As I live, surely those who are in the waste places shall fall by the sword, and him that is in the open field will I give to the beasts to be devoured, and those who are in strongholds and in caves shall die by pestilence." 
Ezekiel33:28 And I will make the land [of Israel] a desolation and a waste, and her proud might shall cease, and the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that no one will pass through them." 
Ezekiel33:29 Then shall they know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste because of all their abominations which they have committed." 
Ezekiel33:30 As for you, son of man, your people who talk of you by the walls and in the doors of the houses say one to another, every one to his brother, Come and hear what the word is that comes forth from the Lord." 
Ezekiel33:31 And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as My people, and they hear the words you say, but they will not do them; for with their mouths they show much love, but their hearts go after and are set on their [idolatrous greed for] gain." 
Ezekiel33:32 Behold, you are to them as a very lovely [love] song of one who has a pleasant voice and can play well on an instrument, for they hear your words but do not do them." 
Ezekiel33:33 When this comes to pass,for behold, it will come!,then shall they know, understand, and realize that a prophet has been among them." 
Ezekiel34:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel34:2 Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy and say to them, even to the [spiritual] shepherds, Thus says the Lord God: Woe to the [spiritual] shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Should not the shepherds feed the sheep?" 
Ezekiel34:3 You eat the fat, you clothe yourselves with the wool, you kill the fatlings, but you do not feed the sheep." 
Ezekiel34:4 The diseased and weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the hurt and crippled you have not bandaged, those gone astray you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought to find, but with force and hardhearted harshness you have ruled them." 
Ezekiel34:5 And they were scattered because there was no shepherd, and when they were scattered they became food for all the wild beasts of the field." 
Ezekiel34:6 My sheep wandered through all the mountains and upon every high hill; yes, My sheep were scattered upon all the face of the earth and no one searched or sought for them. [Matt. 9:36.]" 
Ezekiel34:7 Therefore, you [spiritual] shepherds, hear the word of the Lord:" 
Ezekiel34:8 As I live, says the Lord God, surely because My sheep became a prey, and My sheep became food for every beast of the field because there was no shepherd,neither did My shepherds search for My sheep, but the shepherds fed themselves and fed not My sheep," 
Ezekiel34:9 Therefore, O you [spiritual] shepherds, hear the word of the Lord:" 
Ezekiel34:10 Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require My sheep at their hand and cause them to cease feeding the sheep, neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more. I will rescue My sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them." 
Ezekiel34:11 For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I, I Myself, will search for My sheep and will seek them out." 
Ezekiel34:12 As a shepherd seeks out his sheep in the day that he is among his flock that are scattered, so will I seek out My sheep; and I will rescue them out of all places where they have been scattered in the day of clouds and thick darkness." 
Ezekiel34:13 And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and will bring them to their own land; and I will feed them upon the mountains of Israel, by the watercourses, and in all the inhabited places of the country." 
Ezekiel34:14 I will feed them with good pasture, and upon the high mountains of Israel shall their fold be; there shall they lie down in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel34:15 I will feed My sheep and I will cause them to lie down, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel34:16 I will seek that which was lost and bring back that which has strayed, and I will bandage the hurt and the crippled and will strengthen the weak and the sick, but I will destroy the fat and the strong [who have become hardhearted and perverse]; I will feed them with judgment and punishment. [Luke 19:10.]" 
Ezekiel34:17 And as for you, O My flock, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, between the rams and the great he-goats [the malicious and the tyrants of the pasture]." 
Ezekiel34:18 Is it too little for you that you feed on the best pasture, but you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture? And to have drunk of the waters clarified by subsiding, but you must foul the rest of the water with your feet?" 
Ezekiel34:19 And My flock, must they feed on what your feet have trodden and drink what your feet have fouled?" 
Ezekiel34:20 Therefore thus says the Lord God to them: Behold, I, I Myself, will judge between fat sheep and impoverished sheep, or fat goats and lean goats." 
Ezekiel34:21 Because you push with side and with shoulder and thrust with your horns all those that have become weak and diseased, till you have scattered them abroad," 
Ezekiel34:22 Therefore will I rescue My flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between sheep and sheep." 
Ezekiel34:23 And I will raise up over them one Shepherd and He shall feed them, even My Servant David; He shall feed them and He shall be their Shepherd. [Ezek. 37:24; John 10:14-18.]" 
Ezekiel34:24 And I the Lord will be their God and My Servant David a Prince among them; I the Lord have spoken it. 
Ezekiel34:25 And I will confirm with them a covenant of peace and will cause the evil beasts to cease out of the land, and [My people] shall dwell safely in the wilderness, desert, or pastureland and sleep [confidently] in the woods. [Ps. 127:2b; Isa. 11:6-9; John 14:27; 16:33.]" 
Ezekiel34:26 And I will make them and the places round about My hill a blessing, and I will cause the showers to come down in their season; there shall be showers of blessing [of good insured by God's favor]." 
Ezekiel34:27 And the tree of the field shall yield its fruit and the earth shall yield its increase; and [My people] shall be secure in their land, and they shall be confident and know (understand and realize) that I am the Lord, when I have broken the bars of their yoke and have delivered them out of the hand of those who made slaves of them." 
Ezekiel34:28 And they shall no more be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the earth devour them, but they shall dwell safely and none shall make them afraid [in the day of the Messiah's reign]. [Isa. 60:21; 61:3.]" 
Ezekiel34:29 And I will raise up for them a planting of crops for renown, and they shall be no more consumed with hunger in the land nor bear the reproach of the nations any longer." 
Ezekiel34:30 Then shall they know [positively] that I, the Lord their God, am with them and that they, the house of Israel, are My people, says the Lord God," 
Ezekiel34:31 And that you, My sheep, the sheep of My pasture, are [only] men and I am your God, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel35:1 MOREOVER, THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel35:2 Son of man, set your face against the mountain [range of] Seir [in Edom] and prophesy against it," 
Ezekiel35:3 And say to it, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, O Mount Seir, I am against you, and I will stretch out My hand against you and I will make you a desolation and an astonishment." 
Ezekiel35:4 I will lay your cities waste and you shall be desolate, and you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel35:5 Because you [of Esau] have had a perpetual enmity [for Jacob] and you gave over the sons of Israel to the power of the sword at the time of their calamity, when they were suffering their final punishment [the Babylonian conquest], [Ezek. 25:12-14; 36:5.]" 
Ezekiel35:6 Therefore, as I live, says the Lord God, I will expose you to slaughter and slaughter shall pursue you; since you could not bear to live without bloodshed, therefore bloodshed shall pursue you." 
Ezekiel35:7 Thus will I make Mount Seir an astonishment and a desolation, and I will cut off from it him who passes through it and him who returns [that way]." 
Ezekiel35:8 And I will fill [Edom's] mountains with his slain men; on your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines shall those fall who are slain with the sword. 
Ezekiel35:9 I will make you a perpetual desolation and your cities shall not be inhabited. Then you will know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel35:10 Because you [Edom] said, These two nations [Israel and Judah] and these two countries shall be mine and we will take possession of them,although the Lord was there," 
Ezekiel35:11 Therefore, as I live, says the Lord God, I will deal with you according to the anger and envy you showed because of your enmity for them, and I will make Myself known among them [as He Who will judge and punish] when I judge and punish you." 
Ezekiel35:12 And you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service], and that I have heard all your revilings and scornful speeches that you have uttered against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid waste and desolate; they are given to us to devour." 
Ezekiel35:13 Thus you have boasted and magnified yourselves against Me with your mouth, multiplying your words against Me; I have heard it." 
Ezekiel35:14 Thus says the Lord God: While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you a waste and desolation." 
Ezekiel35:15 As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so will I deal with you; you shall be a waste and desolation, O Mount Seir and all Edom, all of it. Then they shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel36:1 ALSO YOU, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord." 
Ezekiel36:2 Thus says the Lord God: Because the enemy has said over you, Aha! and, The ancient heights have become our possession," 
Ezekiel36:3 Therefore prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God: Because, yes, because they made you a desolation, and they snapped after and crushed you from every side so that you became the possession of the rest of the nations and you became the talk and evil gossip of the people," 
Ezekiel36:4 Therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God: Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys, to the desolate wastes and the cities that are forsaken, that have become a prey and derision to the rest of the nations that are round about;" 
Ezekiel36:5 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Surely in the fire of My hot jealousy have I spoken against the rest of the nations and against all Edom, who have given to themselves My land with wholehearted joy and with uttermost contempt, that they might empty it out and possess it for a prey and a spoil." 
Ezekiel36:6 Prophesy therefore concerning the land of Israel and say to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I have spoken in My jealousy and in My wrath because you have suffered the shame and reproach of the nations;" 
Ezekiel36:7 Therefore thus says the Lord God: I have lifted up My hand and sworn, Surely the nations that are round about you shall themselves suffer shame and reproach." 
Ezekiel36:8 But you, O mountains of Israel, shall shoot forth your branches and yield your fruit to My people Israel, for they are soon to come [home]." 
Ezekiel36:9 For behold, I am for you and I will turn to you; and you shall be tilled and sown," 
Ezekiel36:10 And I will multiply men upon you, the whole house of Israel, even all of it; the cities shall be inhabited and the waste places shall be rebuilt," 
Ezekiel36:11 And I will multiply upon you man and beast, and they shall increase and be fruitful. And I will cause you to be inhabited according to your former estate and I will do better for you than at your beginnings; and you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel36:12 Yes, [O mountains of Israel] I will cause men to walk upon you, even My people Israel, and they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance; and you shall no more after this bereave them of children [for idol sacrifices]." 
Ezekiel36:13 Thus says the Lord God: Because they say to you, You [O land] are a devourer of men and have bereaved your nation of children [offered to idols]," 
Ezekiel36:14 Therefore you shall devour men no more, neither bereave your nation or cause it to stumble any more, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel36:15 Neither will I let you hear any more the reproach of the nations, nor shall you suffer the dishonor of the peoples any more, nor shall you cause your nation to stumble and fall any more [through idolatry], says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel36:16 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel36:17 Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled it by [doing] their [own] way and by their [idolatrous] doings. Their conduct before Me was like the uncleanness of a woman during her [physical] impurity." 
Ezekiel36:18 So I poured out My wrath upon them for the blood that they had shed upon the land and for their idols with which they had defiled it. 
Ezekiel36:19 And I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries; according to their conduct and their [idolatrous] deeds I judged and punished them." 
Ezekiel36:20 And when they came to the nations to which they went, they profaned My holy name in that men said of them, These are the people of the Lord, and yet they had to go forth out of His land." 
Ezekiel36:21 But I had regard, concern, and compassion for My holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they went." 
Ezekiel36:22 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: I do not do this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for My holy name's sake, which you have profaned among the nations to which you went." 
Ezekiel36:23 And I will vindicate the holiness of My great name and separate it for its holy purpose from all that defiles it,My name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned among them,and the nations will know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service], when I shall be set apart by you and My holiness vindicated in you before their eyes and yours." 
Ezekiel36:24 For I will take you from among the nations and gather you out of all countries and bring you into your own land. 
Ezekiel36:25 Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanness; and from all your idols will I cleanse you." 
Ezekiel36:26 A new heart will I give you and a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh." 
Ezekiel36:27 And I will put my Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My statutes, and you shall heed My ordinances and do them." 
Ezekiel36:28 And you shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and you shall be My people, and I will be your God." 
Ezekiel36:29 I will also save you from all your uncleannesses, and I will call forth the grain and make it abundant and lay no famine on you." 
Ezekiel36:30 And I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field, that you may no more suffer the reproach and disgrace of famine among the nations." 
Ezekiel36:31 Then you shall [earnestly] remember your own evil ways and your doings that were not good, and shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominable deeds." 
Ezekiel36:32 Not for your sake do I do this, says the Lord God; let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your [own] wicked ways, O house of Israel!" 
Ezekiel36:33 Thus says the Lord God: In the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities I will [also] cause [Israel's] cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be rebuilt." 
Ezekiel36:34 And the desolate land shall be tilled, that which had lain desolate in the sight of all who passed by." 
Ezekiel36:35 And they shall say, This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden, and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are fortified and inhabited." 
Ezekiel36:36 Then the nations that are left round about you shall know that I the Lord have rebuilt the ruined places and replanted that which was desolate. I the Lord have spoken it, and I will do it." 
Ezekiel36:37 Thus says the Lord God: For this also I will let the house of Israel inquire of Me to do it for them; I will increase their men like a flock. 
Ezekiel36:38 Like the flock of holy things for sacrifice, like the flock of Jerusalem in her [solemn] appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men; and they shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel37:1 THE HAND of the Lord was upon me, and He brought me out in the Spirit of the Lord and set me down in the midst of the valley; and it was full of bones." 
Ezekiel37:2 And He caused me to pass round about among them, and behold, there were very many [human bones] in the open valley or plain, and behold, they were very dry." 
Ezekiel37:3 And He said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, You know! [I Cor. 15:35.]" 
Ezekiel37:4 Again He said to me, Prophesy to these bones and say to them, O you dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. [John 5:28.]" 
Ezekiel37:5 Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath and spirit to enter you, and you shall live;" 
Ezekiel37:6 And I will lay sinews upon you and bring up flesh upon you and cover you with skin, and I will put breath and spirit in you, and you [dry bones] shall live; and you shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel37:7 So I prophesied as I was commanded; and as I prophesied, there was a [thundering] noise and behold, a shaking and trembling and a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone." 
Ezekiel37:8 And I looked and behold, there were sinews upon [the bones] and flesh came upon them and skin covered them over, but there was no breath or spirit in them." 
Ezekiel37:9 Then said He to me, Prophesy to the breath and spirit, son of man, and say to the breath and spirit, Thus says the Lord God: Come from the four winds, O breath and spirit, and breathe upon these slain that they may live." 
Ezekiel37:10 So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the breath and spirit came into [the bones], and they lived and stood up upon their feet, an exceedingly great host. [Rev. 11:11.]" 
Ezekiel37:11 Then He said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up and our hope is lost; we are completely cut off." 
Ezekiel37:12 Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will open your graves and cause you to come up out of your graves, O My people; and I will bring you [back home] to the land of Israel. [Hos. 13:14.]" 
Ezekiel37:13 And you shall know that I am the Lord [your Sovereign Ruler], when I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, O My people." 
Ezekiel37:14 And I shall put My Spirit in you and you shall live, and I shall place you in your own land. Then you shall know, understand, and realize that I the Lord have spoken it and performed it, says the Lord." 
Ezekiel37:15 The word of the Lord came again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel37:16 Son of man, take a stick and write on it, For Judah and the children of Israel his companions; then take another stick and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and all the house of Israel his companions;" 
Ezekiel37:17 And join them together into one stick that they may become one in your hand. 
Ezekiel37:18 And when your people say to you, Will you not show us what you mean by these?" 
Ezekiel37:19 Say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph,which is in the hand of Ephraim,and the tribes of Israel his associates, and will join with it the stick of Judah and make them one stick, and they shall be one in My hand." 
Ezekiel37:20 When the sticks on which you write shall be in your hand before their eyes," 
Ezekiel37:21 Then say to them, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations to which they have gone, and will gather them from every side and bring them into their own land." 
Ezekiel37:22 And I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel, and one King shall be King over them all; and they shall be no longer two nations, neither be divided into two kingdoms any more. [Jer. 50:4.]" 
Ezekiel37:23 They shall not defile themselves any more with their idols and their detestable things or with any of their transgressions, but I will save them out of all their dwelling places and from all their backslidings in which they have sinned, and I will cleanse them. So shall they be My people, and I will be their God." 
Ezekiel37:24 And David My Servant shall be King over them, and they all shall have one Shepherd. They shall also walk in My ordinances and heed My statutes and do them." 
Ezekiel37:25 They shall dwell in the land in which your fathers dwelt, that I gave to My servant Jacob, and they shall dwell there, they and their children and their children's children, forever; and My Servant David shall be their Prince forever. [Isa. 60:21; Joel 3:20; Amos 9:15.]" 
Ezekiel37:25 They shall dwell in the land in which your fathers dwelt, that I gave to My servant Jacob, and they shall dwell there, they and their children and their children's children, forever; and My Servant David shall be their Prince forever. [Isa. 60:21; Joel 3:20; Amos 9:15.]" 
Ezekiel37:25 They shall dwell in the land in which your fathers dwelt, that I gave to My servant Jacob, and they shall dwell there, they and their children and their children's children, forever; and My Servant David shall be their Prince forever. [Isa. 60:21; Joel 3:20; Amos 9:15.]" 
Ezekiel37:26 I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them, and I will give blessings to them and multiply them and will set My sanctuary in the midst of them forevermore." 
Ezekiel37:27 My tabernacle or dwelling place also shall be with them; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people." 
Ezekiel37:28 Then the nations shall know, understand, and realize that I the Lord do set apart and consecrate Israel for holy use, when My sanctuary shall be in their midst forevermore." 
Ezekiel38:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Ezekiel38:2 Son of man, set your face against Gog, of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, of Meshech, and of Tubal, and prophesy against him," 
Ezekiel38:3 And say, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince (ruler) of Rosh, of Meshech, and of Tubal." 
Ezekiel38:4 And I will turn you back and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you forth and all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great company with buckler and shield, all of them handling swords," 
Ezekiel38:5 Persia, Cush, and Put or Libya with them, all of them with shield and helmet," 
Ezekiel38:6 Gomer and all his hordes, the house of Togarmah in the uttermost parts of the north and all his hordes,many people are with you." 
Ezekiel38:7 You [Gog] be prepared; yes, prepare yourself, you and all your companies that are assembled about you, and you be a guard and a commander for them." 
Ezekiel38:8 After many days you shall be visited and mustered [for service]; in the latter years you shall go against the land that is restored from the ravages of the sword, where people are gathered out of many nations upon the mountains of Israel, which had been a continual waste; but its [people] are brought forth out of the nations and they shall dwell securely, all of them. [Isa. 24:22.]" 
Ezekiel38:9 You shall ascend and come like a storm; you shall be like a cloud to cover the land, you and all your hosts and many people with you." 
Ezekiel38:10 Thus says the Lord God: At the same time thoughts shall come into your mind, and you will devise an evil plan." 
Ezekiel38:11 And you will say, I will go up against an open country [the land of unwalled villages]; I will fall upon those who are at rest, who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls and having neither bars nor gates," 
Ezekiel38:12 To take spoil and prey, to turn your hand upon the desolate places now inhabited and assail the people gathered out of the nations, who have obtained livestock and goods, who dwell at the center of the earth [Palestine]." 
Ezekiel38:13 Sheba and Dedan and the merchants of Tarshish, with all their lionlike cubs [or satellite areas], shall say to you, Have you come to take spoil? Have you gathered your hosts to take the prey? To carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to take a great spoil?" 
Ezekiel38:14 Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord God: In that day when My people Israel dwell securely, will you not know it and be aroused?" 
Ezekiel38:15 And you will come from your place out of the uttermost parts of the north, you and many peoples with you, all of them riding on horses, a great host, a mighty army." 
Ezekiel38:16 And you shall come up against My people Israel like a cloud to cover the land. In the latter days I will bring you against My land, that the nations may know, understand, and realize Me when My holiness shall be vindicated through you [vindicated and honored in your overwhelming destruction], O Gog, before their eyes." 
Ezekiel38:17 Thus says the Lord God: Are you he of whom I have spoken in olden times by My servants the prophets of Israel, who prophesied in those days for years that I would bring you [Gog] against them?" 
Ezekiel38:18 But in that day when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, says the Lord God, My wrath shall come up into My nostrils." 
Ezekiel38:19 For in My jealousy and in the fire of My wrath have I said, Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking or cosmic catastrophe in the land of Israel," 
Ezekiel38:20 So that the fishes of the sea and the birds of the heavens, the beasts of the field and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of the earth, shall tremble and shake at My presence; and the mountains shall be thrown down and the steep places shall fall and every wall [natural or artificial] shall fall to the ground." 
Ezekiel38:21 And I will call for a sword against [Gog] throughout all My mountains, says the Lord God, every man's sword shall be against his brother [over the dividing of booty]." 
Ezekiel38:22 And with pestilence and with bloodshed will I enter into judgment with [Gog], and I will rain upon him and upon his hordes and upon the many peoples that are with him torrents of rain and great hailstones, fire and brimstone. [Ps. 11:6.]" 
Ezekiel38:23 Thus will I demonstrate My greatness and My holiness, and I will be recognized, understood, and known in the eyes of many nations; yes, they shall know that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel39:1 AND YOU, son of man, prophesy against Gog, Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince (ruler) of Rosh, of Meshech, and of Tubal." 
Ezekiel39:2 And I will turn you about and will lead you on, and will cause you to come up from the uttermost parts of the north and will lead you against the mountains of Israel;" 
Ezekiel39:3 And I will smite your bow from your left hand and will cause your arrows to fall out of your right hand. 
Ezekiel39:4 You shall fall [dead] upon the mountains of Israel, you and all your hosts and the peoples who are with you. I will give you to the ravenous birds of every sort and to the beasts of the field to be devoured." 
Ezekiel39:5 You shall fall in the open field, for I have spoken [it], says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:6 I will send fire on Magog and upon those who dwell securely in the coastlands, and they shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord [the Sovereign Ruler, Who calls forth loyalty and obedient service]." 
Ezekiel39:7 And I will make My holy name known in the midst of My people Israel, and I will not let them profane My holy name any more; and the nations shall know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord, the Holy One of Israel." 
Ezekiel39:8 Behold, it is coming and it will be done, says the Lord God; that is the day of which I have spoken." 
Ezekiel39:9 And [when you, Gog, are no longer] they who dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth and shall set on fire and burn the battle gear, the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, the handspikes or riding whips and the spears; and they shall burn them as fuel for seven years," 
Ezekiel39:10 So that My people shall take no firewood out of the field or cut down any out of the forests, for they shall make their fires of the weapons. And they shall despoil those who despoiled them and plunder those who plundered them, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:11 And in that day, I will give to Gog a place for burial there in Israel, the valley of those who pass through on the east side in front of the [Dead] Sea [the highway between Syria, Petra, and Egypt], and it will delay and stop those who pass through. And there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude, and they shall call it the Valley of Hamon-gog [multitude of Gog]." 
Ezekiel39:12 For seven months the house of Israel will be burying them, that they may cleanse the land." 
Ezekiel39:13 Yes, all the people of the land will bury them, and it shall bring them renown in the day that I shall be glorified, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:14 And they shall set apart men to work continually who shall pass through the land, men commissioned to bury, with the help of those who are passing by, those bodies that lie unburied on the face of the ground, in order to cleanse the land. After the end of seven months they shall make their search." 
Ezekiel39:15 And when these pass through the land and anyone sees a human bone, he shall set up a marker by it as a sign to the buriers, until they have buried it in the Valley of Hamon-gog or of Gog's multitude." 
Ezekiel39:16 And Hamonah [multitude] shall also be the name of the city [of the dead]. Thus shall they cleanse the land. 
Ezekiel39:17 And you, son of man, thus says the Lord God: Say to the birds of prey of every sort and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves and come, gather from every side to the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you, even a great sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel at which you may eat flesh and drink blood." 
Ezekiel39:18 You shall eat the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, of goats, and of bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan [east of the Jordan]." 
Ezekiel39:19 And you shall eat fat till you are filled and drink blood till you are drunk at the sacrificial feast which I am preparing for you. 
Ezekiel39:20 And you shall be filled at My table with horses and riders, with mighty men, and with soldiers of every kind, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel39:21 And I will manifest My honor and glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see My judgment and justice [in the punishment] which I have executed and My hand which I have laid on them." 
Ezekiel39:22 So the house of Israel shall know, understand, and realize beyond all question that I am the Lord their God from that day forward." 
Ezekiel39:23 And the nations shall know, understand, and realize positively that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity, because they trespassed against Me; and I hid My face from them. So I gave them into the hand of their enemies and they all fell [into captivity or were slain] by the power of the sword. [Deut. 31:17.]" 
Ezekiel39:24 According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions I dealt with them and hid My face from them. 
Ezekiel39:25 Therefore thus says the Lord God: Now will I reverse the captivity of Jacob and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel and will be jealous for My holy name. 
Ezekiel39:26 They shall forget their shame and self-reproach and all their treachery and unfaithfulness in which they have transgressed against Me, when they dwell securely in their land and there is none who makes them afraid." 
Ezekiel39:27 When I have brought them again from the peoples and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, and My justice and holiness are set apart and vindicated through them in the sight of many nations," 
Ezekiel39:28 Then shall they know, understand, and realize positively that I am the Lord their God, because I sent them into captivity and exile among the nations and then gathered them to their own land. I will leave none of them remaining among the nations any more [in the latter days]." 
Ezekiel39:29 Neither will I hide My face any more then from them, when I have poured out My Spirit upon the house of Israel, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel40:1 IN THE twenty-fifth year of our captivity [by Babylon], in the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city [of Jerusalem] was taken, on the very same day the hand of the Lord was upon me and He brought me to that place." 
Ezekiel40:2 In the visions of God He brought me into the land of Israel and set me down upon a very high mountain, on the south side of which there was what seemed to be the structure of a city." 
Ezekiel40:3 He brought me there, and behold, there was a man [an angel] whose appearance was like bronze, with a line of flax and a measuring reed in his hand, and he stood in the gateway." 
Ezekiel40:4 And the man said to me, Son of man, look with your eyes and hear with your ears and set your heart and mind on all that I will show you, for you are brought here that I may show them to you. Declare all that you see to the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel40:5 And behold, there was a wall all around the outside area of the house [of the Lord], and in the man's hand a measuring reed six long cubits in length, each cubit being longer [than the usual one] by a handbreadth; so he measured the thickness of the wall, one reed, and the height, one reed." 
Ezekiel40:6 Then he came to the gate which faced the east and went up its [seven] steps and measured the threshold of the gateway, one reed broad, and the other threshold of the gateway [inside the thick wall], one reed broad." 
Ezekiel40:7 And every room for the guards was one reed long and one reed broad, and the space between the guardrooms or lodges was five cubits. And the threshold of the gate by the porch or vestibule of the gateway within was one reed." 
Ezekiel40:8 He measured also the porch or vestibule of the gate toward the house [of the Lord], one reed." 
Ezekiel40:9 Then he measured the porch or vestibule of the gateway, eight cubits, and its posts or jambs, two cubits. And the porch or vestibule of the gate was inside [toward the house of the Lord]." 
Ezekiel40:10 And the guardrooms or lodges of the east gateway were three on this side and three on that side; the three were the same size, and the posts or jambs were the same size on either side." 
Ezekiel40:11 And he measured the breadth of the opening of the gateway, ten cubits, and the length of the gateway, thirteen cubits." 
Ezekiel40:12 And a border or barrier before the guardrooms was one cubit on this side, and a border or barrier, one cubit on that side. And the guardrooms or lodges were six cubits on this side and six cubits on that side." 
Ezekiel40:13 And the man [an angel] measured the gate from the outer wall of one chamber or guardroom to the outer wall of another,a breadth of twenty-five cubits from door to door. 
Ezekiel40:14 And the open part of the porch or vestibule of the gateway on the outside was twenty cubits, the chambers or guardrooms of the gate being round about." 
Ezekiel40:15 And including this porch or vestibule of the gate on the outside and the porch or vestibule on the inside, the extent was fifty cubits." 
Ezekiel40:16 And there were closed windows to the guardrooms or chambers and to their posts or pillars within the gate round about, and likewise to the archway or vestibule; and windows were round about facing into the court, and upon each post or pillar were palm tree [decorations]." 
Ezekiel40:17 Then he brought me into the outward court, and behold, there were chambers and a pavement round about the court; thirty chambers fronted on the pavement." 
Ezekiel40:18 And the pavement was along by the side of the gates, answerable to the length of the gateways; this was the lower pavement." 
Ezekiel40:19 Then the man measured the distance from the inner front before the lower gate to the outer front of the inner court, a hundred cubits, both on the east and on the north." 
Ezekiel40:20 And the gate of the outward court which faced the north, of it he measured both the length and the breadth." 
Ezekiel40:21 And its guardrooms or lodges, three on this side and three on that side, and its posts or pillars and archway or vestibule were the same size as those of the first gate; the length was fifty cubits and the breadth twenty-five cubits." 
Ezekiel40:22 And its windows and its archway or vestibule and its palm trees were of the same size as those of the gate that faces toward the east. It was reached by going up seven steps, and the archway of its vestibule was on the inner side." 
Ezekiel40:23 Opposite the gate on the north and on the east was a gate to the inner court, and he [the man with the measuring rod of reed] measured from gate to gate, a hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel40:24 After that the man brought me toward the south, and behold, there was a gate on the south, and he measured its posts or pillars and its archway or vestibule; they measured as the others did." 
Ezekiel40:25 And there were windows round about in it and in its archway or vestibule, like those windows in the other gateways; its length was fifty cubits and its breadth twenty-five cubits." 
Ezekiel40:26 And there were seven steps going up to the gate, and its archway or vestibule was on the inside. And it had palm trees, one on this side and another on that side, carved on its posts or pillars." 
Ezekiel40:27 And there was a gate to the inner court on the south, and he measured from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel40:28 And the man [an angel] brought me into the inner court by the south gate, and he measured the south gate; its measurements were the same as those of the other gateways." 
Ezekiel40:29 And its guardrooms or chambers and its posts or pillars and its archway or vestibule measured as did the others. And there were windows in the gateway and in its archway or vestibule round about; its length was fifty cubits and its breadth twenty-five cubits. 
Ezekiel40:30 And there was an archway or a vestibule round about, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits wide." 
Ezekiel40:31 And its [arched] vestibule faced the outer court; and palm trees were carved upon its posts or pillars, and the steps going up to it were eight." 
Ezekiel40:32 And he brought me into the inner court toward the east and he measured the gate; it measured the same as the others. 
Ezekiel40:33 And its guardrooms or chambers and its posts or pillars and its archway or vestibule measured as did the others. And there were windows in it and in its [arched] vestibule round about; the gateway was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide. 
Ezekiel40:34 And its [arched] vestibule faced the outer court; and palm trees were carved upon its posts or pillars on either side, and the steps leading to it were eight." 
Ezekiel40:35 And the man [an angel] brought me to the north gate and measured it; the measurements were the same as those of the other gates. 
Ezekiel40:36 Its guardrooms or chambers, its posts or pillars, its [arched] vestibule, and the windows to it round about [were of the same size as the others]. The length of the gateway was fifty cubits and the width was twenty-five cubits." 
Ezekiel40:37 And its posts or pillars were toward the outer court, and palm trees were carved upon them on either side. And the approach to it had eight steps." 
Ezekiel40:38 There was an attached chamber with its door beside the posts or pillars of the gates where the burnt offering was to be washed. 
Ezekiel40:39 And in the porch or vestibule of the gate were two tables on this side and two tables on that side, on which to slay the burnt offering and the sin offering and the trespass or guilt offering." 
Ezekiel40:40 And on the one side without, as one goes up to the entrance of the gate to the north, were two tables; and on the other side at the vestibule of the gate were two tables." 
Ezekiel40:41 Four tables were on the inside and four tables on the outside of the side of the gate, eight tables upon which the sacrifices were to be slain." 
Ezekiel40:42 Moreover, there were four tables of hewn stone for the burnt offering, a cubit and a half long, a cubit and a half broad, and one cubit high. Upon them were to be laid the instruments with which were slain the burnt offering and the sacrifice." 
Ezekiel40:43 And slabs or hooks a handbreadth long were fastened within [the room] round about. Upon the tables was to be placed the flesh of the offering. 
Ezekiel40:44 Then the man [an angel] led me [from without] into the inner court, and behold, there were two chambers in the inner court: one beside the north gate but facing the south, and one beside the south gate but looking toward the north." 
Ezekiel40:45 And the man [an angel who was guiding me] said, This chamber with its view to the south is for the priests who have charge of the house [of the Lord]," 
Ezekiel40:46 And the chamber with its view to the north is for the priests who have charge of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, who alone among the sons of Levi may come near to the Lord to minister to Him." 
Ezekiel40:47 And he measured the court, a hundred cubits long and a hundred cubits broad, foursquare; and the altar was in front of the house [of the Lord]." 
Ezekiel40:48 Then he brought me to the porch or vestibule of the temple proper, and he measured each post or pillar of the porch, five cubits on either side. And the width of the gate was three cubits for this [leaf] and three cubits for that one." 
Ezekiel40:49 And the length of the porch or vestibule was twenty cubits and the breadth eleven cubits; and he brought me by the steps by which it was reached, and there were two pillars standing on the posts [as bases] or beside them, one on either side of the entrance." 
Ezekiel41:1 AND the man [an angel] brought me to [the Holy Place of] the temple and measured the wall pillars, six cubits broad on one side [of the ten-cubit door] and six cubits broad on the other side, which was the breadth of the tabernacle or tent [later called the temple]." 
Ezekiel41:2 And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits, and the leaves of the door were five cubits on the one side and five cubits on the other side; and he measured its length, forty cubits, and its breadth, twenty cubits." 
Ezekiel41:3 Then the man [being an angel, and unrestricted] went inside [the inner room, but went alone] and measured each post of the door, two cubits, the doorway, six cubits, and the breadth of the entrance, seven cubits. [Heb. 9:6, 7; 10:19-25.]" 
Ezekiel41:4 And he measured the length [of the interior of the second room] in the temple proper, twenty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits; and he [came out and] said to me, This is the Most Holy Place (the Holy of Holies)." 
Ezekiel41:5 Then he measured the wall of the temple, six cubits thick [to accommodate side chambers]; and the breadth of every side chamber, four cubits, round about the temple proper on every side." 
Ezekiel41:6 These side chambers were three stories high, one over another and thirty in each story; and they entered into the wall which belonged to the house for the side chambers round about, that they might have hold of the wall [of the house], but they did not have hold of the wall of the temple." 
Ezekiel41:7 And the side rooms became broader as they encompassed the temple higher and higher, for the encircling of the house went higher and higher round about the temple; therefore the breadth of the house continued upward, and so one went up from the lowest story to the highest one by way of the middle story [on a winding stairway]." 
Ezekiel41:8 I saw also that the temple had an elevation or foundation platform round about it. The foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed measure of six long cubits. 
Ezekiel41:9 The thickness of the outer wall of the side chamber was five cubits, as was the width of that part of the foundation that was left free of the side chambers that belonged to the house." 
Ezekiel41:10 And between [the free space of the foundation platform and] the chambers was a breadth of twenty cubits round about the temple on every side. 
Ezekiel41:11 And the doors of the attached side chambers opened on the free space that was left, one door toward the north and another door toward the south; and the breadth of the space on the foundation platform that was left free was five cubits round about." 
Ezekiel41:12 And the building that faced the temple yard on the west side was seventy cubits broad, and the wall of the building was five cubits thick round about, and its length ninety cubits." 
Ezekiel41:13 And the man [an angel in my vision] measured the temple, a hundred cubits long; and the yard and the building with its walls, a hundred cubits long;" 
Ezekiel41:14 Also the breadth of the east front of the temple and the yard, a hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel41:15 Then the man [an angel] measured the length of the building on the west side of the yard with its walls on either side, a hundred cubits. The Holy Place of the temple, the inner Holy of Holies, and the outer vestibule" 
Ezekiel41:16 Were roofed over, and all three had latticed windows all around. The inside walls of the temple were paneled with wood round about from the floor up to the windows and from the windows to the roof," 
Ezekiel41:17 Including the space above the door leading to the inner room, inside and out. And on the walls round about in the inner room and the Holy Place were carvings," 
Ezekiel41:18 With figures of cherubim and palm trees, so that a palm tree was between a cherub and a cherub; and every cherub had two faces," 
Ezekiel41:19 So that the face of a man was toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. It was made this way through all the house round about." 
Ezekiel41:20 From the floor to above the entrance were cherubim and palm trees made, and also on the wall of the temple [the Holy Place]." 
Ezekiel41:21 The door frames of the temple were squared, and in front [outside of the sanctuary or Holy of Holies] was what appeared to be" 
Ezekiel41:22 An altar of wood, three cubits high and two cubits long [and wide]; and its corners, its base, and its sides were of wood. And the man [an angel] said to me, This is the table that is before the Lord." 
Ezekiel41:23 And the temple or Holy Place and the sanctuary or Holy of Holies, had two doors [one for each of them]." 
Ezekiel41:24 And the doors had two leaves apiece, two folding leaves,two leaves for the one door and two leaves for the other door." 
Ezekiel41:25 And there were carved on them, on the doors of the temple, cherubim and palm trees, like those carved upon the walls; and there was also a canopy of wood in front of the porch outside." 
Ezekiel41:26 And there were recessed windows and palm trees on the one side and on the other side of the porch. Thus were the side chambers and the canopies of the house. 
Ezekiel42:1 THEN the man [an angel] brought me forth into the outer court northward, and he brought me to the attached chambers that were opposite the temple yard and were opposite the building on the north." 
Ezekiel42:2 Before the long side of one hundred cubits was the door toward the north, and the breadth was fifty cubits." 
Ezekiel42:3 Adjoining the twenty cubits which belonged to the inner court, and opposite the pavement which belonged to the outer court, was balcony facing balcony in three stories." 
Ezekiel42:4 And before the attached chambers was a walk inward of ten cubits breadth and a hundred cubits long, and their doors were on the north." 
Ezekiel42:5 Now the upper chambers were shorter, for the balconies took off from these more than from the lower and middle chambers of the building." 
Ezekiel42:6 For they were in three stories, but did not have pillars as the pillars of the [outer] court; therefore the upper chambers were set back more than the lower and the middle ones from the ground." 
Ezekiel42:7 And the wall or fence that was outside, opposite and parallel to the chambers, toward the outer court before the chambers, was fifty cubits long," 
Ezekiel42:8 For the length of the [combined] chambers that were on the outer court was fifty cubits, while [the length] of those opposite the temple was a hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel42:9 And under these chambers was the entrance on the east side, as one approached them from the outer court." 
Ezekiel42:10 In the breadth of the wall of the court going toward the east, before the yard and before the building, were the chambers" 
Ezekiel42:11 With a passage before them that gave the appearance of the attached chambers on the north, of the same length and breadth, with similar exits and arrangements and doors." 
Ezekiel42:12 And like the doors of the chambers that were toward the south there was an entrance at the head of the way, the way before the dividing wall toward the east, as one enters them." 
Ezekiel42:13 Then said the man [an angel] to me, The north chambers and the south chambers, which are opposite the yard, are the holy chambers where the priests who approach the Lord shall eat the most holy offerings; there shall they lay the most holy things,the meal offering, the sin offering, and the trespass or guilt offering,for the place is holy." 
Ezekiel42:14 When the priests enter the Holy Place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court unless they lay aside there the garments in which they minister, for these are holy, separate, and set apart. They shall put on other garments before they approach that which is for the people." 
Ezekiel42:15 Now when he had finished measuring the inner temple area, he brought me forth toward the gate which faces east and measured it [the outer area] round about." 
Ezekiel42:16 He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed round about." 
Ezekiel42:17 He measured the north side, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed round about." 
Ezekiel42:18 He measured the south side, five hundred reeds with the measuring reed." 
Ezekiel42:19 He turned about to the west side and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed. 
Ezekiel42:20 He measured it on the four sides; it had a wall round about, the length five hundred reeds and the breadth five hundred, to make a separation between that which was holy [the temple proper] and that which was common [the outer area]." 
Ezekiel43:1 AFTERWARD the man [an angel] brought me to the gate, the gate that faces east." 
Ezekiel43:2 And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the east and His voice was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with His glory. [Rev. 1:15; 14:2.]" 
Ezekiel43:3 And the vision which I saw was like the vision I had seen when I came to foretell the destruction of the city and like the vision I had seen beside the river Chebar [near Babylon]; and I fell on my face. [Ezek. 1:4; 3:23; 10:15, 22.]" 
Ezekiel43:4 And the glory of the Lord entered the temple by the gate facing east. 
Ezekiel43:5 Then the Spirit caught me up and brought me into the inner court, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the temple." 
Ezekiel43:6 And I heard One speaking to me out of the temple, and a Man stood by me." 
Ezekiel43:7 And He [the Lord] said to me, Son of man, this is the place of My throne and the place of the soles of My feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever; and My holy name the house of Israel shall no more profane, neither they nor their kings, by their [idolatrous] harlotry, nor by the dead bodies and monuments of their kings," 
Ezekiel43:8 Nor by setting their threshold by My thresholds and their doorposts by My doorposts, with a mere wall between Me and them. They have profaned My holy name by their abominations which they have committed; therefore I have consumed them in My anger." 
Ezekiel43:9 Now let them put away their [idolatrous] harlotry and the dead bodies and monuments of their kings far from Me, and I will dwell in their midst forever." 
Ezekiel43:10 Son of man, show the temple by your description of it to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them measure accurately its appearance and plan." 
Ezekiel43:11 And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the form of the temple and the arrangement of it,its exits and its entrances and the whole form of it,all its ordinances and all its forms and all its laws. And write it down in their sight so that they may keep the whole form of it and all the ordinances of it and do them." 
Ezekiel43:12 This is the law of the house [of the Lord]: The whole area round about on the top of the mountain [Mount Moriah] shall be most holy, separated, and set apart. Behold, this is the law of the house [of the Lord]." 
Ezekiel43:13 And these are the measurements of the altar [of burnt offering] in cubits. The cubit is a royal cubit [the length of a forearm and a palm of the hand]; the bottom or gutter shall be a cubit deep and a cubit wide, with a rim or lip round about it of a span's breadth. And this shall be the height of the altar:" 
Ezekiel43:14 From the bottom or gutter on the ground to the lower ledge or brim shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth one cubit." 
Ezekiel43:15 And the altar hearth shall be four cubits high, and from the altar hearth reaching upward there shall be four horns one cubit high." 
Ezekiel43:16 And the altar hearth shall be square,twelve cubits long, twelve broad, square in its four sides." 
Ezekiel43:17 And the ledge shall be fourteen cubits long and fourteen cubits broad on its four sides, and the border about it shall be half a cubit; and its bottom or gutter shall be a cubit deep and wide, and its ascent [not steps] shall face the east. [Exod. 20:26.]" 
Ezekiel43:18 And [the Lord] said to me, Son of man, thus says the Lord God: These are the regulations for the use of the altar in the day that it is erected, upon which to offer burnt offerings and to sprinkle blood against it:" 
Ezekiel43:19 You shall give to the priests, the Levites who are of the offspring of Zadok, who are near to Me to minister to Me, says the Lord God, a young bull for a sin offering." 
Ezekiel43:20 And you shall take of its blood and put it on the four horns of [the altar of burnt offering] and on the four corners of the ledge and on the rim or border round about. Thus shall you cleanse and make atonement for [the altar]. 
Ezekiel43:21 You shall also take the bullock of the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the appointed place of the temple, outside the sacred enclosure. [Heb. 13:11.]" 
Ezekiel43:22 And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering. Thus the altar shall be cleansed, as it was cleansed with the bullock." 
Ezekiel43:23 When you have finished cleansing it, you shall offer a young bull without blemish and a ram out of the flock without blemish." 
Ezekiel43:24 And you shall bring them near before the Lord, and the priests shall cast salt upon them and they shall offer them up for a burnt offering to the Lord." 
Ezekiel43:25 Seven days you shall prepare every day a goat for a sin offering; also a young bull and a ram out of the flock, without blemish, shall be prepared." 
Ezekiel43:26 For seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and purify it; so the priests shall consecrate, separate, and set it apart to receive offerings. [Exod. 29:37.]" 
Ezekiel43:27 And when these days have been accomplished, on the eighth day and from then on, the priests shall offer your burnt offerings upon the altar and your peace offerings; and I will accept you, says the Lord God. [Rom. 12:1; I Pet. 2:5.]" 
Ezekiel44:1 THEN the man [an angel] brought me back the way of the outer gate of the sanctuary which faces the east, and it was shut." 
Ezekiel44:2 Then the Lord said to me, This gate shall be shut; it shall not be opened and no man shall enter in by it, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has entered in by it; therefore it shall remain shut." 
Ezekiel44:3 As for the prince, being the prince, he shall sit in it to eat bread before the Lord; he shall enter by way of the porch or vestibule of the gate and shall go out the same way." 
Ezekiel44:4 Then he brought me by way of the north gate to the front of the temple; I looked, and behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord, and I fell upon my face. [Rev. 15:8.]" 
Ezekiel44:5 And the Lord said to me, Son of man, mark well and set your heart to see with your eyes and hear with your ears all that I say to you concerning all the ordinances of the house of the Lord and all its laws, and mark well and set your heart to know who are allowed to enter the temple and all those who are excluded from the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel44:6 And you shall say to the rebellious, even to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: O you house of Israel, let all your previous abominations be enough for you! [Do not repeat them!]" 
Ezekiel44:7 You have brought into My sanctuary aliens, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in My sanctuary to pollute and profane it, even My house, when you offer My bread, the fat and the blood; and through it all and in addition to all your abominations, they and you have broken My covenant." 
Ezekiel44:8 And you have not kept charge of My holy things, but you have chosen foreign keepers to please yourselves and have set them in charge of My sanctuary." 
Ezekiel44:9 Therefore thus says the Lord God: No foreigner uncircumcised in heart and flesh shall enter into My sanctuary [where no one but the priests might enter], of any foreigners who are among the children of Israel." 
Ezekiel44:10 But the Levites who went far away from Me when Israel went astray, who went astray from Me after their idols, they shall bear [the punishment for] their iniquity and guilt." 
Ezekiel44:11 They shall minister in My sanctuary, having oversight as guards at the gates of the temple and ministering in the temple. They shall slay the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall attend the people to serve them." 
Ezekiel44:12 Because [the priests] ministered to [the people] before their idols and became a stumbling block of iniquity and guilt to the house of Israel, therefore I have lifted up My hand and have sworn against them, says the Lord God, that they shall bear the punishment for their iniquity and guilt." 
Ezekiel44:13 And they shall not come near to Me to do the office of a priest to Me, nor come near to any of My holy things that are most sacred; but they shall bear their shame and their punishment for the abominations which they have committed." 
Ezekiel44:14 Yet I will appoint them as caretakers to have charge of the temple, for all the service of the temple and for all that will be done in it." 
Ezekiel44:15 But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of My sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from Me, shall come near to Me to minister to Me, and they shall attend Me to offer to Me the fat and the blood, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel44:16 They shall enter into My sanctuary; and they shall come near to My table to minister to Me, and they shall keep My charge." 
Ezekiel44:17 When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed in linen garments; no wool shall be on them while they minister at the gates of the inner court and within the temple." 
Ezekiel44:18 They shall have linen turbans on their heads and linen breeches upon their loins; they shall not gird themselves with anything that causes [them to] sweat. 
Ezekiel44:19 And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they ministered and lay them in the holy chambers, and they shall put on other garments, lest by contact of their garments with the people they should consecrate (separate and set apart for holy use) such persons [unintentionally and unfittingly]." 
Ezekiel44:20 Neither shall they shave their heads or allow their locks to grow long; they shall only cut short or trim the hair of their heads. 
Ezekiel44:21 Neither shall any priest drink wine when he enters the inner court. 
Ezekiel44:22 Neither shall they take for their wives a widow or a woman separated or divorced from her husband; but they shall marry maidens [who are virgins] of the offspring of the house of Israel or a widow previously married to a priest. 
Ezekiel44:23 The priests shall teach My people the difference between the holy and the common or profane, and cause them to distinguish between the unclean and the clean." 
Ezekiel44:24 And in a controversy they shall act as judges, and they shall judge according to My judgments; and they shall keep My laws and My statutes in all My appointed feasts, and they shall keep My Sabbaths holy." 
Ezekiel44:25 And they shall go near to no dead person to defile themselves, except for father or for mother, for son or for daughter, for brother or for sister who has had no husband; for them they may defile themselves. [Lev. 21:1, 2.]" 
Ezekiel44:26 And after he is cleansed [from the defilement of a dead body] they shall reckon to him seven days more before returning to the temple. 
Ezekiel44:27 And on the day that he goes into the sanctuary, into the inner court to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin offering, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel44:28 This [their ministry to Me] shall be to them as an inheritance, for I am their inheritance; and you shall give them no possession in Israel, for I am their possession. [Josh. 13:14, 33.]" 
Ezekiel44:29 They shall eat the meal offering and the sin offering and the trespass offering, and every offering in Israel dedicated by a solemn vow to God shall be theirs." 
Ezekiel44:30 And the first of all the firstfruits of all kinds, and every offering of all kinds from all your offerings, shall belong to the priests. You shall also give to the priest the first of your coarse meal and bread dough, that a blessing may rest on your house." 
Ezekiel44:31 The priests shall not eat of anything that has died of itself or is torn, whether it be bird or beast." 
Ezekiel45:1 MOREOVER, WHEN you shall divide the land by apportioned and assigned lots for inheritance, you shall set apart as an offering to the Lord a portion of the land to be used for holy purposes. The length shall be 25,000 cubits, and the breadth 20,000. It shall be holy (set apart and consecrated to sacred use) in its every area. [Ezek. 48:9, 12, 13.]" 
Ezekiel45:2 Of this there shall belong to the sanctuary a square plot 500 by 500, and 50 cubits for the open space around it." 
Ezekiel45:3 And in this sacred section you shall measure off a portion 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 cubits in breadth. And in it shall be the sanctuary which is most holy." 
Ezekiel45:4 It is a holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to the Lord; and it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place (set apart as sacred) for the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel45:5 And another portion of land, 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 cubits wide, shall also be for the Levites, the ministers of the temple, and they shall possess it as a place in which to live." 
Ezekiel45:6 And you shall appoint for the possession of the city an area of 5,000 cubits wide and 25,000 cubits long, along beside the portion set aside as a holy section. It shall belong to the whole house of Israel." 
Ezekiel45:7 And to the prince shall belong the land on the one side and on the other side of the portion set aside as a holy section and the property of the city, in front of the holy section and the property of the city, from the west side westward and from the east side eastward; and the length shall be answerable to that of one of the tribal portions and parallel to it from the western boundary to the eastern boundary of the land." 
Ezekiel45:8 It shall be for the prince,his possession in Israel. And My princes shall no more oppress My people, but they shall give the rest of the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes." 
Ezekiel45:9 Thus says the Lord God: That is enough for you, O princes of Israel! Stop the violence and plundering and oppression [that you did when you were given no property], and do justice and righteousness, and take away your exactions and cease your evictions of My people, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel45:10 You shall have just weights on your scales and just measures,both a just ephah measure and a just bath measure. 
Ezekiel45:11 The ephah and the bath measures shall both be the same size, the bath containing one tenth of a homer and the ephah one tenth of a homer; the standard measure shall be the homer." 
Ezekiel45:12 And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels and twenty-five shekels and fifteen shekels shall be your maneh. 
Ezekiel45:13 This is the offering which you shall make: a sixth of an ephah from each homer of wheat and a sixth of an ephah from each homer of barley. 
Ezekiel45:14 And as to the set portion of oil, you shall offer the tenth part of a bath of oil out of each cor, which is a homer of ten baths, for ten baths make [both a cor and] a homer." 
Ezekiel45:15 And [you shall offer] one lamb out of every flock of two hundred, out of the well-watered pastures of Israel and from all the families of Israel, to provide for a meal offering and for a burnt offering and for peace offerings, to make atonement for those who brought them, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel45:16 All the people of the land shall give this offering for the prince in Israel. 
Ezekiel45:17 And it shall be the prince's part to furnish [from the contributions of the people] the burnt offerings, meal offerings, and drink offerings at the feasts and on the New Moons and on the Sabbaths, at all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He shall prepare and make the sin offering, the meal offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings to make atonement for, bringing forgiveness and reconciliation to, the house of Israel." 
Ezekiel45:18 Thus says the Lord God: In the first [month], on the first [day] of the month, you shall take a young bull without blemish and you shall cleanse the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel45:19 And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering and put it upon the doorposts of the temple and upon the four corners of the ledge of the altar and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court. 
Ezekiel45:20 You shall do this on the seventh day of the month for everyone who has sinned through error or ignorance and for him who is simple-minded. So shall you make atonement for the temple. 
Ezekiel45:21 In the first month on the fourteenth day of the [month]; you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten." 
Ezekiel45:22 Upon that day the prince shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bullock for a sin offering. 
Ezekiel45:23 And for the seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to the Lord, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily for the seven days, and a he-goat daily for a sin offering." 
Ezekiel45:24 And he shall prepare as a meal offering to be offered with each bullock an ephah of meal, an ephah for each ram, and a hin of oil for each ephah of meal." 
Ezekiel45:25 In the seventh [month], on the fifteenth day of the month, he shall make the same provision and preparation for the seven days of the feast, for sin offerings, burnt offerings, bloodless or meal offerings, and for the oil." 
Ezekiel46:1 THUS SAYS the Lord God: The gate of the inner court that faces east shall be shut during the six working days, but on the Sabbath it shall be opened, and also on the day of the New Moon it shall be opened." 
Ezekiel46:2 And the prince shall enter by the porch or vestibule of the gate from without and shall stand by the sidepost of the gate. The priests shall prepare and offer his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening." 
Ezekiel46:3 The people of the land shall worship at the entrance of that gate before the Lord on the Sabbaths and on the New Moons. 
Ezekiel46:4 And the burnt offering that the prince shall offer to the Lord on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish. 
Ezekiel46:5 And the bloodless or meal offering with the ram shall be an ephah, and the meal offering with the lambs shall be as much as he is able and willing to give, and a hin of oil with each ephah." 
Ezekiel46:6 And on the day of the New Moon the offering shall be a young bull without blemish and six lambs and a ram without blemish. 
Ezekiel46:7 And the prince shall provide and make a meal or bloodless offering, an ephah for the bullock and an ephah for the ram, and for the lambs as he is able and willing according to what has been made available to his hand, and a hin of oil to each ephah." 
Ezekiel46:8 And when the prince shall enter, he shall go in by the porch or vestibule of that gate and he shall go out by way of it." 
Ezekiel46:9 But when the people of the land shall come before the Lord at the appointed solemn feasts, he who enters the north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate, and he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the north gate; he shall not return by the gate by which he came in but shall go out by the opposite gate [straight ahead]. [Phil. 3:13.]" 
Ezekiel46:10 And the prince, when they go in, shall go in with them, and when they go out, he shall go out." 
Ezekiel46:11 And in the appointed and solemn feasts the meal or bloodless offering shall be with a bullock an ephah, and with a ram an ephah, and with the lambs as much as the prince is willing and able to give [from what has been made available to him], and a hin of oil with each ephah." 
Ezekiel46:12 When the prince shall prepare and make a freewill burnt offering or peace offerings voluntarily to the Lord, the gate that faces east shall be opened for him, and he shall offer his burnt offering and his peace offerings as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he has gone out, the gate shall be shut." 
Ezekiel46:13 And a lamb a year old without blemish shall you [the priests, for the congregation] offer daily to the Lord; you shall prepare and offer it every morning." 
Ezekiel46:14 And you [the priests] shall prepare a meal offering to go with it every morning, one-sixth of an ephah with one-third of a hin of oil to moisten the fine flour. This is a perpetual ordinance for a continual meal offering to the Lord." 
Ezekiel46:15 Thus shall they prepare and offer the lamb and the meal offering and the oil every morning for a continual burnt offering. 
Ezekiel46:16 Thus says the Lord God: If the prince gives a gift to any of his sons out of his inheritance, it shall belong to his sons; it is their property by inheritance." 
Ezekiel46:17 But if he gives a gift out of his inheritance to one of his servants, then it shall be his until the year of liberty [the Year of Jubilee]; after that it shall be returned to the prince; only his sons may keep a gift from his inheritance [permanently]." 
Ezekiel46:18 Moreover, the prince shall not take of the people's inheritance by oppression, thrusting them out of their property; what he gives to his sons he shall take out of his own possession, so that none of My people shall be separated from his [inherited] possession." 
Ezekiel46:19 Then he [my guide] led me through the entrance which was at the side of the gate into the holy chambers for the priests, which faced the north; and behold, there was a place at the extreme western end of them." 
Ezekiel46:20 And he said to me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the [bloodless] meal offering, to prevent their having to bring them into the outer court, lest they should thereby wrongfully sanctify (separate and consecrate for holy service) the people who are there." 
Ezekiel46:21 And he brought me out into the outer court and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court, and behold, in every corner of the court there was a court." 
Ezekiel46:22 In the four corners of the court there were courts joined on and enclosed, forty cubits long and thirty broad; these four in the corners were the same size." 
Ezekiel46:23 And there was a row of masonry inside them, round about [each of] the four courts, and it was made with hearths for boiling at the bottom of the rows round about." 
Ezekiel46:24 Then said he to me, These are the kitchens of those who do the boiling, where the ministers [the Levites] of the temple shall boil the sacrifices of the people." 
Ezekiel47:1 THEN HE [my guide] brought me again to the door of the house [of the Lord,the temple], and behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the temple toward the east, for the front of the temple was toward the east; and the waters came down from under, from the right side of the temple, on the south side of the altar." 
Ezekiel47:2 Then he brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around outside to the outer gate by the way that faces east, and behold, waters were running out on the right side. [Zech. 14:8; Rev. 22:1, 2.]" 
Ezekiel47:3 And when the man went on eastward with the measuring line in his hand, he measured a thousand cubits, and he caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were ankle-deep." 
Ezekiel47:4 Again he measured a thousand cubits and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that reached to the knees. Again he measured a thousand cubits and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that reached to the loins." 
Ezekiel47:5 Afterward he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the waters had risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over or through." 
Ezekiel47:6 And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Then he led me and caused me to return to the bank of the river." 
Ezekiel47:7 Now when I had returned, behold, on the bank of the river were very many trees on the one side and on the other." 
Ezekiel47:8 Then he said to me, These waters pour out toward the eastern region and go down into the Arabah (the Jordan Valley) and on into the Dead Sea. And when they shall enter into the sea [the sea of putrid waters], the waters shall be healed and made fresh." 
Ezekiel47:9 And wherever the double river shall go, every living creature which swarms shall live. And there shall be a very great number of fish, because these waters go there that [the waters of the sea] may be healed and made fresh; and everything shall live wherever the river goes." 
Ezekiel47:10 The fishermen shall stand on [the banks of the Dead Sea]; from En-gedi even to En-eglaim shall be a place to spread nets; their fish shall be of very many kinds, as the fish of the Great or Mediterranean Sea." 
Ezekiel47:11 But its swamps and marshes will not become wholesome for animal life; they shall [as the river subsides] be left encrusted with salt and given over to it. 
Ezekiel47:12 And on the banks of the river on both its sides, there shall grow all kinds of trees for food; their leaf shall not fade nor shall their fruit fail [to meet the demand]. Each tree shall bring forth new fruit every month, [these supernatural qualities being] because their waters came from out of the sanctuary. And their fruit shall be for food and their leaves for healing." 
Ezekiel47:13 Thus says the Lord God: These shall be the boundaries by which you shall divide the land among the twelve tribes of Israel: Joseph shall have two portions. 
Ezekiel47:14 And you shall divide it equally. I lifted up My hand and swore to give it to your fathers, and this land shall fall to you as your inheritance." 
Ezekiel47:15 And this shall be the boundary of the land on the north side: from the Great or Mediterranean Sea by way of Hethlon to the entrance of Zedad," 
Ezekiel47:16 Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is on the border between Damascus and Hamath, as far as Hazer-hatticon on the border of Hauran." 
Ezekiel47:17 So the boundary shall extend from the [Mediterranean] Sea to Hazar-enan, at the boundary of Damascus on the north, together with the boundary of Hamath to the north. This is the north side." 
Ezekiel47:18 And on the east side you shall measure the boundary from between Hauran and Damascus, and Gilead on one side and the land of Israel on the other, with the Jordan forming the boundary down to the East or Dead Sea. And this [from Damascus to the Dead Sea and including it] is the east side." 
Ezekiel47:19 And the south side [boundary] southward, from Tamar [near the Dead Sea] shall run as far as the waters of Meribath-kadesh, then along the Brook of Egypt to the Great or Mediterranean Sea. And this is the south side." 
Ezekiel47:20 On the west side [the boundary] shall be the Great or Mediterranean Sea to a point opposite the entrance of Hamath [north of Mount Hermon]. This is the west side. 
Ezekiel47:21 So you shall divide this land among you according to the tribes of Israel. 
Ezekiel47:22 You shall divide it by allotment as an inheritance for yourselves and for the foreigners who reside among you and shall have children born among you. They shall be to you as those born in the country among the children of Israel; they shall inherit with you among the tribes of Israel. 
Ezekiel47:23 In whatever tribe the foreigner resides, there shall you give him his inheritance, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel48:1 NOW THESE are the names of the tribes: From the north end, beside the way of Hethlon to the entrance of Hamath as far as Hazar-enan, which is on the northern border of Damascus opposite Hamath, and reaching from the east border to the west, Dan, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:2 And beside the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, Asher, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:3 And beside the border of Asher, from the east side to the west side, Naphtali, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:4 And beside the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, Manasseh, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:5 And beside the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, Ephraim, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:6 And beside the border of Ephraim, from the east side to the west side, Reuben, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:7 And beside the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, Judah, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:8 And beside the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side, shall be the offering of land which you shall offer: 25,000 reeds in breadth, and in length as one of the tribal portions from the east side to the west side; and the sanctuary shall be in the midst of it." 
Ezekiel48:9 The portion of land that you shall set apart and offer to the Lord shall be 25,000 [measures] in length and 10,000 in breadth [for each of the two districts]." 
Ezekiel48:10 And for these, even for the priests, shall be this holy offering of land: toward the north 25,000 [measures] in length, and toward the west 10,000 in breadth, and toward the east 10,000 in breadth, and toward the south 25,000 in length, and the sanctuary of the Lord shall be in the midst of it." 
Ezekiel48:11 The set-apart and sacred portion shall be for the consecrated priests of the sons of Zadok, who have kept My charge and who did not go astray when the children of Israel went astray, as the other Levites did." 
Ezekiel48:12 And this land offering shall be for the priests as a thing most holy beside the border of the [other] Levites. 
Ezekiel48:13 And opposite the border of the priests the [other] Levites shall have 25,000 [measures] in length and 10,000 in breadth. The whole length shall be 25,000 and the breadth 10,000." 
Ezekiel48:14 And they shall not sell any of it or exchange it; they shall not convey or transfer this the firstfruits of the land, for it has been offered to the Lord and is holy to Him." 
Ezekiel48:15 And the remaining strip of 5,000 [measures] in breadth and 25,000 in length shall be for the city's secular use, for a place in which to dwell and for open country or suburbs. The city shall be in the midst of the plot." 
Ezekiel48:16 And these shall be the dimensions of it: the north side 4,500 [measures] and the south side 4,500, the east side 4,500 and the west side 4,500. [Rev. 21:16.]" 
Ezekiel48:17 And the city shall have suburbs or open country: toward the north 250 [measures] and toward the south 250, toward the east 250 and toward the west 250." 
Ezekiel48:18 The remainder of the length along beside the holy portion shall be 10,000 [measures] to the east and 10,000 to the west, and it shall be along beside the holy portion. The produce from it shall be for food for those who work in the city." 
Ezekiel48:19 And the workers of the city from all the tribes of Israel shall till the open land. 
Ezekiel48:20 The whole portion that you shall set apart as an offering to God shall be 25,000 [measures] by 25,000; you shall set apart the holy portion foursquare, together with the property of the city." 
Ezekiel48:21 And what is left unallotted, on both sides of the holy portion and of that possessed by the city, shall belong to the prince. Reaching eastward from the 25,000 [measures] of the holy portion to the east border, and westward from the 25,000 [measures] to the west border, parallel to the tribal allotments, it belongs to the prince. The holy portion with the sanctuary of the temple in its midst," 
Ezekiel48:22 And the possession of the Levites and the property of the city [of Jerusalem] shall be in the midst of that which belongs to the prince. What lies between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin shall be for the prince. 
Ezekiel48:23 As for the rest of the tribes, from the east side to the west side, Benjamin, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:24 And beside the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:25 And beside the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:26 And beside the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:27 And beside the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad, one [portion]." 
Ezekiel48:28 And beside the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border shall extend from Tamar to the waters of Meribath-kadesh and on along the Brook [of Egypt] to the Great or Mediterranean Sea." 
Ezekiel48:29 This is the land which you shall divide by allotment among the tribes of Israel as their inheritance, and these are their several portions, says the Lord God." 
Ezekiel48:30 And these shall be the exits of the city: On the north side, which is to extend 4,500 measures," 
Ezekiel48:31 Three gates: one gate of Reuben, one gate of Judah, one gate of Levi, the gates of the city being called after the names of the tribes of Israel;" 
Ezekiel48:32 And on the east side's 4,500 measures, three gates: one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin, one gate of Dan;" 
Ezekiel48:33 And on the south side's 4,500 measures, three gates: one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate of Zebulun;" 
Ezekiel48:34 On the west side's 4,500 measures, three gates: one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali." 
Ezekiel48:35 The distance around the city shall be 18,000 measures; and the name of the city from that day and ever after shall be, THE LORD IS THERE. [Rev. 21:12, 13, 16.]" 
Daniel1:1 IN THE third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it." 
Daniel1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, along with a part of the vessels of the house of God; and he carried them into the land of Shinar [Babylonia] to the house of his god and placed the vessels in the treasury of his god. [II Chron. 36:5-7; Jer. 27:19, 20; Dan. 5:1-3.]" 
Daniel1:3 And the [Babylonian] king told Ashpenaz, the master of his eunuchs, to bring in some of the children of Israel, both of the royal family and of the nobility,[II Kings 20:17, 18.]" 
Daniel1:4 Youths without blemish, well-favored in appearance and skillful in all wisdom, discernment, and understanding, apt in learning knowledge, competent to stand and serve in the king's palace,and to teach them the literature and language of the Chaldeans." 
Daniel1:5 And the king assigned for them a daily portion of his own rich and dainty food and of the wine which he drank. They were to be so educated and so nourished for three years that at the end of that time they might stand before the king. 
Daniel1:6 Among these were of the children of Judah: Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah." 
Daniel1:7 The chief of the eunuchs gave them names: Daniel he called Belteshazzar [the king's attendant], Hananiah he called Shadrach, Mishael he called Meshach, and Azariah he called Abednego." 
Daniel1:8 But Daniel determined in his heart that he would not defile himself by [eating his portion of] the king's rich and dainty food or by [drinking] the wine which he drank; therefore he requested of the chief of the eunuchs that he might [be allowed] not to defile himself. [Num. 6:1-4; I Cor. 10:21.] 
Daniel1:9 Now God made Daniel to find favor, compassion, and loving-kindness with the chief of the eunuchs." 
Daniel1:10 And the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear, lest my lord the king, who has appointed your food and your drink, should see your faces worse looking or more sad than the other youths of your age. Then you would endanger my head with the king." 
Daniel1:11 Then said Daniel to the steward whom the chief of the eunuchs had set over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah," 
Daniel1:12 Prove your servants, I beseech you, for ten days and let us be given a vegetable diet and water to drink." 
Daniel1:13 Then let our appearance and the appearance of the youths who eat of the king's [rich] dainties be observed and compared by you, and deal with us your servants according to what you see." 
Daniel1:14 So [the man] consented to them in this matter and proved them ten days. 
Daniel1:15 And at the end of ten days it was seen that they were looking better and had taken on more flesh than all the youths who ate of the king's rich dainties. 
Daniel1:16 So the steward took away their [rich] dainties and the wine they were to drink and gave them vegetables. 
Daniel1:17 As for these four youths, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding in all [kinds of] visions and dreams. [Luke 21:15; James 1:5-7.]" 
Daniel1:18 Now at the end of the time which the king had set for bringing [all the young men in], the chief of the eunuchs brought them before Nebuchadnezzar." 
Daniel1:19 And the king conversed with them, and among them all none was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah; therefore they were assigned to stand before the king." 
Daniel1:20 And in all matters of wisdom and understanding concerning which the king asked them, he found them ten times better than all the [learned] magicians and enchanters who were in his whole realm." 
Daniel1:21 And Daniel continued there even to the first year of King Cyrus [at the close of the seventy years' exile of Judah in Babylonia, which Jeremiah had foretold]. [Ezra 1:1-3; Jer. 25:11, 12; 29:10.]" 
Daniel1:21 And Daniel continued there even to the first year of King Cyrus [at the close of the seventy years' exile of Judah in Babylonia, which Jeremiah had foretold]. [Ezra 1:1-3; Jer. 25:11, 12; 29:10.]" 
Daniel1:21 And Daniel continued there even to the first year of King Cyrus [at the close of the seventy years' exile of Judah in Babylonia, which Jeremiah had foretold]. [Ezra 1:1-3; Jer. 25:11, 12; 29:10.]" 
Daniel2:1 IN THE second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams by which his spirit was troubled and agitated and his sleep went from him." 
Daniel2:2 Then the king commanded to call the magicians, the enchanters or soothsayers, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans [diviners], to tell the king his dreams. So they came and stood before the king." 
Daniel2:3 And the king said to them, I had a dream and my spirit is troubled to know the dream." 
Daniel2:4 Then said the Chaldeans [diviners] to the king in Aramaic [the Syrian language], O king, live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation." 
Daniel2:5 The king answered the Chaldeans, The thing is gone from me! And the decree goes forth from me and I say it with all emphasis: if you do not make known to me the dream with its interpretation, you shall be cut in pieces and your houses shall be made a dunghill!" 
Daniel2:6 But if you show the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. So show me the dream and the interpretation of it." 
Daniel2:7 They answered again, Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation of it." 
Daniel2:8 The king answered, I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time, because you see the thing is gone from me and because you see that my word [against you] is sure:" 
Daniel2:9 If you will not make known to me the dream, there is but one sentence for you; for you have prepared lying and corrupt words to speak before me [hoping to delay your execution] until the time is changed. Therefore tell me the dream, and I will know that you can tell me the interpretation of it." 
Daniel2:10 The Chaldeans [diviners] answered before the king and said, There is not a man on earth who can show the king this matter, for no king, lord, or ruler has [ever] asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or Chaldean." 
Daniel2:11 A rare and weighty thing indeed the king requires! None except the gods can reveal it to the king, and their dwelling is not with [human] flesh." 
Daniel2:12 For this cause the king was angry and very furious and commanded that all the wise men of Babylon be destroyed. 
Daniel2:13 So the decree went forth that the wise men were to be killed, and [the officers] sought Daniel and his companions to be slain." 
Daniel2:14 Then Daniel returned an answer which was full of prudence and wisdom to Arioch the captain or executioner of the king's guard, who had gone forth to slay the wise men of Babylon." 
Daniel2:15 He said to Arioch, the king's captain, Why is the decree so urgent and hasty from the king? Then Arioch explained the matter to Daniel." 
Daniel2:16 And Daniel went in and desired of the king that he would set a date and give him time, and he would show the king the interpretation." 
Daniel2:17 Then Daniel went to his house and made the thing known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions," 
Daniel2:18 So that they would desire and request mercy of the God of heaven concerning this secret, that Daniel and his companions should not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon." 
Daniel2:19 Then the secret was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night, and Daniel blessed the God of heaven." 
Daniel2:20 Daniel answered, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever! For wisdom and might are His!" 
Daniel2:21 He changes the times and the seasons; He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding! [Dan. 4:35.] 
Daniel2:22 He reveals the deep and secret things; He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with Him! [Job 15:8; Ps. 25:14; Matt. 6:6.]" 
Daniel2:22 He reveals the deep and secret things; He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with Him! [Job 15:8; Ps. 25:14; Matt. 6:6.]" 
Daniel2:23 I thank You and praise You, O God of my fathers, Who has given me wisdom and might and has made known to me now what we desired of You, for You have made known to us the solution to the king's problem." 
Daniel2:24 Therefore Daniel went to Arioch, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon; he went and said thus to him: Do not destroy the wise men of Babylon! Bring me in before the king, and I will show to the king the interpretation." 
Daniel2:25 Then Arioch brought in Daniel before the king in haste and said thus to him: I have found a man of the captives of Judah who will make known to the king the interpretation [of his dream]. 
Daniel2:26 The king said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Are you able to make known to me the dream which I have seen and the interpretation of it?" 
Daniel2:27 Daniel answered the king, The [mysterious] secret which the king has demanded neither the wise men, enchanters, magicians, nor astrologers can show the king," 
Daniel2:28 But there is a God in heaven Who reveals secrets, and He has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what it is that shall be in the latter days (at the end of days). Your dream and the visions in your head upon your bed are these:" 
Daniel2:29 As for you, O king, as you were lying upon your bed thoughts came into your mind about what should come to pass hereafter, and He Who reveals secrets was making known to you what shall come to pass." 
Daniel2:30 But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom that I have more than anyone else living, but in order that the interpretation may be made known to the king and that you may know the thoughts of your heart and mind." 
Daniel2:31 You, O king, saw, and behold, [there was] a great image. This image which was mighty and of exceedingly great brightness stood before you, and the appearance of it was frightening and terrible." 
Daniel2:32 As for this image, its head was of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and its thighs of bronze," 
Daniel2:33 Its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay [the baked clay of the potter]." 
Daniel2:34 As you looked, a Stone was cut out without human hands, which smote the image on its feet of iron and [baked] clay [of the potter] and broke them to pieces. [I Pet. 2:3-8.]" 
Daniel2:35 Then the iron, the [baked] clay [of the potter], the bronze, the silver, and the gold were broken and crushed together and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors, and the wind carried them away so that not a trace of them could be found. And the Stone that smote the image became a great mountain or rock and filled the whole earth." 
Daniel2:36 This was the dream, and we will tell the interpretation of it to the king." 
Daniel2:37 You, O king, are king of the [earthly] kings to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the might, and the glory. [Jer. 25:9; 27:6; 28:14.]" 
Daniel2:38 And wherever the children of men dwell, and the beasts of the field, and the birds of the heavens,He has given them into your hand and has made you to rule over them all. You [king of Babylon] are the head of gold." 
Daniel2:39 And after you shall arise another kingdom [the Medo-Persian], inferior to you, and still a third kingdom of bronze [Greece under Alexander the Great] which shall bear rule over all the earth." 
Daniel2:40 And the fourth kingdom [Rome] shall be strong as iron, since iron breaks to pieces and subdues all things; and like iron which crushes, it shall break and crush all these. [Dan. 7:7, 23.]" 
Daniel2:41 And as you saw the feet and toes, partly of [baked] clay [of the potter] and partly of iron, it shall be a divided kingdom; but there shall be in it some of the firmness and strength of iron, just as you saw the iron mixed with miry [earthen] clay." 
Daniel2:42 And as the toes of the feet were partly of iron and partly of [baked] clay [of the potter], so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle and broken." 
Daniel2:43 And as you saw the iron mixed with miry and earthen clay, so they shall mingle themselves in the seed of men [in marriage bonds]; but they will not hold together [for two such elements or ideologies can never harmonize], even as iron does not mingle itself with clay." 
Daniel2:44 And in the days of these [final ten] kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed, nor shall its sovereignty be left to another people; but it shall break and crush and consume all these kingdoms and it shall stand forever. [Dan. 7:14-17; Luke 1:31-33; Rev. 11:15.]" 
Daniel2:45 Just as you saw that the Stone was cut out of the mountain without hands and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great God has made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter. The dream is certain and the interpretation of it is sure." 
Daniel2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face and paid homage to Daniel [as a great prophet of the highest God] and ordered that an offering and incense should be offered up to him [in honor of his God]. 
Daniel2:47 The king answered Daniel, Of a truth your God is the God of gods and the Lord of kings and a Revealer of secret mysteries, seeing that you could reveal this secret mystery! [Prov. 3:32; Rev. 19:16.]" 
Daniel2:48 Then the king made Daniel great and gave him many great gifts, and he made him to rule over the whole province of Babylon and to be chief governor over all the wise men of Babylon." 
Daniel2:49 And Daniel requested of the king and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the affairs of the province of Babylon. But Daniel remained in the gate of the king [at the king's court]." 
Daniel3:1 NEBUCHADNEZZAR THE king [caused to be] made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits or ninety feet and its breadth six cubits or nine feet. He set it up on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon." 
Daniel3:2 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the satraps, the deputies, the governors, the judges and chief stargazers, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs and lawyers, and all the chief officials of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image which King Nebuchadnezzar had [caused to be] set up." 
Daniel3:3 Then the satraps, the deputies, the governors, the judges and chief stargazers, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs and lawyers, and all the chief officials of the provinces were gathered together for the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up, and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up." 
Daniel3:4 Then the herald cried aloud, You are commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages," 
Daniel3:5 That when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, dulcimer or bagpipe, and every kind of music, you are to fall down and worship the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up." 
Daniel3:6 And whoever does not fall down and worship shall that very hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. 
Daniel3:7 Therefore, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, dulcimer or bagpipe, and every kind of music, all the peoples, nations, and languages fell down and worshiped the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up." 
Daniel3:8 Therefore at that time certain men of Chaldean descent came near and brought [malicious] accusations against the Jews. 
Daniel3:9 They said to King Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live forever!" 
Daniel3:10 You, O king, have made a decree that every man who hears the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, dulcimer or bagpipe, and every kind of music shall fall down and worship the golden image," 
Daniel3:11 And that whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. 
Daniel3:12 There are certain Jews whom you have appointed and set over the affairs of the province of Babylon,Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men, O king, pay no attention to you; they do not serve your gods or worship the golden image which you have set up." 
Daniel3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; and these men were brought before the king." 
Daniel3:14 [Then] Nebuchadnezzar said to them, Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image which I have set up?" 
Daniel3:15 Now if you are ready when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, dulcimer or bagpipe, and every kind of music to fall down and worship the image which I have made, very good. But if you do not worship, you shall be cast at once into the midst of a burning fiery furnace, and who is that god who can deliver you out of my hands?" 
Daniel3:16 Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, it is not necessary for us to answer you on this point." 
Daniel3:17 If our God Whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, He will deliver us out of your hand, O king." 
Daniel3:18 But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image which you have set up! [Job 13:15; Acts 4:19, 20.]" 
Daniel3:18 But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image which you have set up! [Job 13:15; Acts 4:19, 20.]" 
Daniel3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury and his facial expression was changed [to antagonism] against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Therefore he commanded that the furnace should be heated seven times hotter than it was usually heated." 
Daniel3:20 And he commanded the strongest men in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace." 
Daniel3:21 Then these [three] men were bound in their cloaks, their tunics or undergarments, their turbans, and their other clothing, and they were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace." 
Daniel3:22 Therefore because the king's commandment was urgent and the furnace exceedingly hot, the flame and sparks from the fire killed those men who handled Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego." 
Daniel3:23 And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the burning fiery furnace." 
Daniel3:24 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king [saw and] was astounded, and he jumped up and said to his counselors, Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered, True, O king." 
Daniel3:25 He answered, Behold, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt! And the form of the fourth is like a son of the gods! [Phil. 2:5-8.]" 
Daniel3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, you servants of the Most High God, come out and come here. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out from the midst of the fire." 
Daniel3:27 And the satraps, the deputies, the governors, and the king's counselors gathered around together and saw these men,that the fire had no power upon their bodies, nor was the hair of their head singed; neither were their garments scorched or changed in color or condition, nor had even the smell of smoke clung to them." 
Daniel3:28 Then Nebuchadnezzar said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Who has sent His angel and delivered His servants who believed in, trusted in, and relied on Him! And they set aside the king's command and yielded their bodies rather than serve or worship any god except their own God." 
Daniel3:29 Therefore I make a decree that any people, nation, and language that speaks anything amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be cut in pieces and their houses be made a dunghill, for there is no other God who can deliver in this way!" 
Daniel3:30 Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon." 
Daniel4:1 NEBUCHADNEZZAR THE king, to all people, nations, and languages that dwell on all the earth: May peace be multiplied to you!" 
Daniel4:2 It seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed toward me. 
Daniel4:3 How great are His signs! And how mighty His wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and His dominion is from generation to generation. [Dan. 7:13, 14; Luke 1:31-33.]" 
Daniel4:4 I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at rest in my house and prospering in my palace." 
Daniel4:5 I had a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts and imaginations and the visions of my head as I was lying upon my bed troubled and agitated me." 
Daniel4:6 Therefore I made a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me, that they might make known to me the interpretation of the dream." 
Daniel4:7 Then the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the astrologers came in, and I told them the dream, but they could not make known to me the interpretation of it." 
Daniel4:8 But at last Daniel came in before me,he who was named Belteshazzar, after the name of my god, and in whom is the Spirit of the Holy God,and I told the dream before him, saying," 
Daniel4:9 O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, because I know that the Spirit of the Holy God is in you and no secret mystery is a burden or troubles you, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen and the interpretation of it." 
Daniel4:10 The visions of my head [as I lay] on my bed were these: I saw, and behold, [there was] a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great." 
Daniel4:11 The tree grew and was strong and its height reached to the heavens, and the sight of it reached to the end of the whole earth." 
Daniel4:12 Its leaves were fair and its fruit abundant, and in it was food for all. The living creatures of the field found shade under it, and the birds of the sky dwelt in its branches; and all flesh was fed from it." 
Daniel4:13 I saw in the visions of my head [as I lay] on my bed, and behold, a watcher, a holy one, came down from heaven." 
Daniel4:14 He cried aloud [with might] and said, Cut down the tree and cut off its branches; shake off its leaves and scatter its fruit. Let the living creatures flee from under it and the fowls from its branches." 
Daniel4:15 Nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, in the midst of the tender grass of the field. Let him be wet with the dew of the heavens, and let him share the lot of the living creatures in the grass of the earth." 
Daniel4:16 Let his nature and understanding be changed from a man's and let a beast's nature and understanding be given him, and let seven times [or years] pass over him." 
Daniel4:17 This sentence is by the decree of the [heavenly] watchers and the decision is by the word of the holy ones, to the intent that the living may know that the Most High [God] rules the kingdom of mankind and gives it to whomever He will and sets over it the humblest and lowliest of men. [Dan. 2:21; 5:21.]" 
Daniel4:18 This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, have seen. And you, O Belteshazzar [Daniel], declare now its interpretation, since all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known to me the interpretation; but you are able, for the Spirit of the Holy God is in you." 
Daniel4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonished and dismayed and stricken dumb for a while [concerned about the king's destiny], and his thoughts troubled, agitated, and alarmed him. The king said, Belteshazzar, let not the dream or its interpretation trouble or alarm you. Belteshazzar answered, My lord, may the dream be for those who hate you and its message for your enemies." 
Daniel4:20 The tree that you saw, which grew [great] and was strong, whose height reached to the heavens and which was visible to all the earth," 
Daniel4:21 Whose foliage was beautiful and its fruit abundant, on which was food for all, under which the living creatures of the field dwelt, and on whose branches the birds of the sky had their nests," 
Daniel4:22 It is you, O king, who have grown and become strong; your greatness has increased and it reaches to the heavens, and your dominion to the ends of the earth." 
Daniel4:23 And whereas the king saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying, Cut the tree down and destroy it, but leave the stump of its roots in the earth with a band of iron and bronze around it, in the tender grass of the field; and let him be wet with the dew of the heavens, and let his portion be with the living creatures of the field until seven times [or years] pass over him," 
Daniel4:24 This is the interpretation, O king: It is the decree of the Most High [God] which has come upon my lord the king:" 
Daniel4:25 You shall be driven from among men and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field; you shall be made to eat grass as do the oxen and you shall be wet with the dew of the heavens; and seven times [or years] shall pass over you until you learn and know and recognize that the Most High [God] rules the kingdom of mankind and gives it to whomever He will. 
Daniel4:26 And in that it was commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree, your kingdom shall be sure to you after you have learned and know that [the God of] heaven rules." 
Daniel4:27 Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you; break off your sins and show the reality of your repentance by righteousness (right standing with God and moral and spiritual rectitude and rightness in every area and relation) and liberate yourself from your iniquities by showing mercy and loving-kindness to the poor and oppressed, that [if the king will repent] there may possibly be a continuance and lengthening of your peace and tranquility and a healing of your error." 
Daniel4:28 All this was fulfilled and came upon King Nebuchadnezzar. 
Daniel4:29 At the end of twelve months he was walking in the royal palace of Babylon. 
Daniel4:30 The king said, Is not this the great Babylon that I have built as the royal residence and seat of government by the might of my power and for the honor and glory of my majesty?" 
Daniel4:31 While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The kingdom has departed from you," 
Daniel4:32 And you shall be driven from among men and your dwelling will be with the living creatures of the field. You will be made to eat grass like the oxen, and seven times [or years] shall pass over you until you have learned and know that the Most High [God] rules in the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever He will." 
Daniel4:33 That very hour the thing was [in process of] being fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men and did eat grass like oxen [as Daniel had said he would], and his body was wet with the dew of the heavens until his hair grew like eagles' [feathers] and his nails [were] like birds' [claws]." 
Daniel4:34 And at the end of the days [seven years], I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven, and my understanding and the right use of my mind returned to me; and I blessed the Most High [God] and I praised and honored and glorified Him Who lives forever, Whose dominion is an everlasting dominion; and His kingdom endures from generation to generation." 
Daniel4:35 And all the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And He does according to His will in the host of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay His hand or say to Him, What are You doing?" 
Daniel4:36 Now at the same time my reason and understanding returned to me; and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and splendor returned to me, and my counselors and my lords sought me out; I was reestablished in my kingdom, and still more greatness [than before] was added to me." 
Daniel4:37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, Whose works are all faithful and right and Whose ways are just. And those who walk in pride He is able to abase and humble." 
Daniel5:1 BELSHAZZAR THE king [descendant of Nebuchadnezzar] made a great feast for a thousand of his lords, and he drank his wine in the presence of the thousand." 
Daniel5:2 Belshazzar, while he was tasting the wine, commanded that the gold and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple [out of the sacred area,the Holy Place and the Holy of Holies] which was in Jerusalem be brought, that the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them." 
Daniel5:3 Then they brought in the gold and silver vessels which had been taken out of the temple, the house of God which was in Jerusalem; and the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines drank from them." 
Daniel5:4 They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone." 
Daniel5:5 Immediately and suddenly there appeared the fingers of a man's hand and wrote on the plaster of the wall opposite the candlestick [so exposed especially to the light] in the king's palace, and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote." 
Daniel5:6 Then the color and the [drunken] hilarious brightness of the king's face was changed, and his [terrifying] thoughts troubled and alarmed him; the joints and muscles of his hips and back gave way and his knees smote together." 
Daniel5:7 The king cried aloud [mightily] to bring in the enchanters or soothsayers, the Chaldeans [diviners], and the astrologers. The king said to the wise men of Babylon, Whoever will read this writing and show me the interpretation of it will be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold put about his neck and will be the third ruler in the kingdom." 
Daniel5:8 And all the king's wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or make known to the king the interpretation of it." 
Daniel5:9 Then King Belshazzar was greatly perplexed and alarmed and the color faded from his face, and his lords were puzzled and astounded." 
Daniel5:10 Now the queen [mother], overhearing the exciting words of the king and his lords, came into the banquet house. The queen [mother] said, O king, live forever! Do not be alarmed at your thoughts or let your cheerful expression and the color of your face be changed." 
Daniel5:11 There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the Spirit of the holy God [or gods], and in the days of your father light and understanding and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods were found in him; and King Nebuchadnezzar, your father,the king, I say, your father,appointed him master of the magicians, enchanters or soothsayers, Chaldeans, and astrologers," 
Daniel5:12 Because an excellent spirit, knowledge, and understanding to interpret dreams, clarify riddles, and solve knotty problems were found in this same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation." 
Daniel5:13 Then Daniel was brought in before the king. And the king said to Daniel, Are you that Daniel of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of Judah?" 
Daniel5:14 I have heard of you, that the Spirit of the holy God [or gods] is in you and that light and understanding and superior wisdom are found in you." 
Daniel5:15 Now the wise men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me that they might read this writing and make known to me the interpretation of it, but they could not show the interpretation of the matter." 
Daniel5:16 But I have heard of you, that you can make interpretations and solve knotty problems. Now if you can read the writing and make known to me its interpretation, you shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold put around your neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom." 
Daniel5:17 Then Daniel answered before the king, Let your gifts be for yourself and give your rewards to another. However, I will read the writing to the king and make known to him the interpretation." 
Daniel5:18 O king, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father a kingdom and greatness and glory and majesty;" 
Daniel5:19 And because of the greatness that He gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him. Whom he would he slew, and whom he would he kept alive; whom he would he set up, and whom he would he put down." 
Daniel5:20 But when his heart was lifted up and his mind and spirit were hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was deposed from his kingly throne and his glory was taken from him;" 
Daniel5:21 He was driven from among men, and his heart or mind was made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses. He was fed with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the heavens until he learned and knew that the Most High God rules in the kingdom of men and that He appoints and sets over it whomever He will." 
Daniel5:22 And you his son, O Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart and mind, though you knew all this [knew it and were defiant]." 
Daniel5:23 And you have lifted yourself up against the Lord of heaven, and the vessels of His house have been brought before you, and you and your lords, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them; and you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or know; but the God in Whose hand your breath is and Whose are all your ways you have not honored and glorified [but have dishonored and disgraced]." 
Daniel5:24 Then was the part of the hand sent from the presence of [the Most High God], and this writing was inscribed." 
Daniel5:25 And this is the inscription that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN,numbered, numbered, weighed, divisions." 
Daniel5:26 This is the interpretation of the matter: MENE, God has numbered the days of your kingship and brought them to an end;" 
Daniel5:27 TEKEL, You are weighed in the balances and are found wanting;" 
Daniel5:28 PERES, Your kingdom and your kingship are divided and given to the Medes and Persians. [Foretold in Isa. 21:2, 5, 9.]" 
Daniel5:29 Then Belshazzar commanded, and Daniel was clothed with purple and a chain of gold put about his neck, and a proclamation was made concerning him that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom." 
Daniel5:30 During that night Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans was slain," 
Daniel5:31 And Darius the Mede took the kingdom; he was about sixty-two years old. 
Daniel6:1 IT PLEASED [King] Darius [successor to Belshazzar] to set over the kingdom 120 satraps who should be [in charge] throughout all the kingdom," 
Daniel6:2 And over them three presidents,of whom Daniel was one,that these satraps might give account to them and that the king should have no loss or damage. 
Daniel6:3 Then this Daniel was distinguished above the presidents and the satraps because an excellent spirit was in him, and the king thought to set him over the whole realm." 
Daniel6:4 Then the presidents and satraps sought to find occasion [to bring accusation] against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find no occasion or fault, for he was faithful, nor was there any error or fault found in him." 
Daniel6:5 Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion [to bring accusation] against this Daniel except we find it against him concerning the law of his God. [Acts 24:13-21; I Pet. 4:12-16.]" 
Daniel6:6 Then these presidents and satraps came [tumultuously] together to the king and said to him, King Darius, live forever!" 
Daniel6:7 All the presidents of the kingdom, the deputies and the satraps, the counselors and the governors, have consulted and agreed that the king should establish a royal statute and make a firm decree that whoever shall ask a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions." 
Daniel6:8 Now, O king, establish the decree and sign the writing that it may not be changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be altered." 
Daniel6:9 So King Darius signed the writing and the decree. 
Daniel6:10 Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house, and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he got down upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as he had done previously. [Ps. 5:7.]" 
Daniel6:11 Then these men came thronging [by agreement] and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God. 
Daniel6:12 Then they came near and said before the king concerning his prohibitory decree, Have you not signed an edict that any man who shall make a petition to any god or man within thirty days, except of you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered and said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be changed or repealed." 
Daniel6:13 Then they said before the king, That Daniel, who is one of the exiles from Judah, does not regard or pay any attention to you, O king, or to the decree that you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day." 
Daniel6:14 Then the king, when he heard these words, was much distressed [over what he had done] and set his mind on Daniel to deliver him; and he labored until the sun went down to rescue him." 
Daniel6:15 Then these same men came thronging [by agreement] to the king and said, Know, O king, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians that no decree or statute which the king establishes may be changed or repealed." 
Daniel6:16 Then the king commanded, and Daniel was brought and cast into the den of lions. The king said to Daniel, May your God, Whom you are serving continually, deliver you! [Ps. 34:7, 19; 37:39, 40; 50:15.]" 
Daniel6:17 And a stone was brought and laid upon the mouth of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet and with the signet of his lords, that there might be no change of purpose concerning Daniel." 
Daniel6:18 Then the king went to his palace and passed the night fasting, neither were instruments of music or dancing girls brought before him; and his sleep fled from him." 
Daniel6:19 Then the king arose very early in the morning and went in haste to the den of lions. 
Daniel6:20 And when he came to the den and to Daniel, he cried out in a voice of anguish. The king said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, is your God, Whom you serve continually, able to deliver you from the lions?" 
Daniel6:21 Then Daniel said to the king, O king, live forever!" 
Daniel6:22 My God has sent His angel and has shut the lions' mouths so that they have not hurt me, because I was found innocent and blameless before Him; and also before you, O king, [as you very well know] I have done no harm or wrong. [II Tim. 4:17.]" 
Daniel6:23 Then the king was exceedingly glad and commanded that Daniel should be taken up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no hurt of any kind was found on him because he believed in (relied on, adhered to, and trusted in) his God." 
Daniel6:24 And the king commanded, and those men who had accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions, they, their children, and their wives; and before they ever reached the bottom of the den, the lions had overpowered them and had broken their bones in pieces." 
Daniel6:25 Then King Darius wrote to all peoples, nations, and languages [in his realm] that dwelt in all the earth: May peace be multiplied to you!" 
Daniel6:26 I make a decree that in all my royal dominion men must tremble and fear before the God of Daniel, for He is the living God, enduring and steadfast forever, and His kingdom shall not be destroyed and His dominion shall be even to the end [of the world]." 
Daniel6:27 He is a Savior and Deliverer, and He works signs and wonders in the heavens and on the earth,He Who has delivered Daniel from the power of the lions." 
Daniel6:28 So this [man] Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian. 
Daniel7:1 IN THE first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dream and visions in his head as he was lying upon his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the gist of the matter. 
Daniel7:2 Daniel said, I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of the heavens [political and social agitations] were stirring up the great sea [the nations of the world]." 
Daniel7:3 And four great beasts came up out of the sea in succession, and different from one another." 
Daniel7:4 The first [the Babylonian empire under Nebuchadnezzar] was like a lion and had eagle's wings. I looked till the wings of it were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth and made to stand upon two feet as a man, and a man's heart was given to it. [Dan. 2:37, 38.]" 
Daniel7:5 And behold another beast, a second one [the Medo-Persian empire], was like a bear, and it raised up itself on one side [or one dominion] and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth; and it was told, Arise, devour much flesh." 
Daniel7:6 After this I looked, and behold, another [the Grecian empire of Alexander the Great], like a leopard which had four wings of a bird on its back. The beast had also four heads [Alexander's generals, his successors], and dominion was given to it. [Dan. 2:39; 8:20-22.]" 
Daniel7:7 After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast [the Roman empire],terrible, powerful and dreadful, and exceedingly strong. And it had great iron teeth; it devoured and crushed and trampled what was left with its feet. And it was different from all the beasts that came before it, and it had ten horns [symbolizing ten kings]. [Dan. 2:40-43; 7:23.]" 
Daniel7:8 I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots; and behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man and a mouth speaking great things." 
Daniel7:9 I kept looking until thrones were placed [for the assessors with the Judge], and the Ancient of Days [God, the eternal Father] took His seat, Whose garment was white as snow and the hair of His head like pure wool. His throne was like the fiery flame; its wheels were burning fire. [I Kings 22:19; Ps. 90:2; Ezek. 1:26-28; Dan. 7:13, 22; Matt. 19:28; Rev. 20:4.]" 
Daniel7:10 A stream of fire came forth from before Him; a thousand thousands ministered to Him and ten thousand times ten thousand rose up and stood before Him; the Judge was seated [the court was in session] and the books were opened. 
Daniel7:11 I looked then because of the sound of the great words which the horn was speaking. I watched until the beast was slain and its body destroyed and given over to be burned with fire. 
Daniel7:12 And as for the rest of the beasts, their power of dominion was taken away; yet their lives were prolonged [for the duration of their lives was fixed] for a season and a time." 
Daniel7:13 I saw in the night visions, and behold, on the clouds of the heavens came One like a Son of man, and He came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before Him." 
Daniel7:14 And there was given Him [the Messiah] dominion and glory and kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve Him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and His kingdom is one which shall not be destroyed. [Rev. 5:1-10.]" 
Daniel7:15 As for me, Daniel, my spirit was grieved and anxious within me, and the visions of my head alarmed and agitated me." 
Daniel7:16 I came near to one of those who stood there and asked him the truth of all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things. 
Daniel7:17 These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. 
Daniel7:18 But the saints of the Most High [God] shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever. [Rom. 8:17; I Pet. 2:9; Rev. 3:21.]" 
Daniel7:19 Then I wished to know the truth about the fourth beast,which was different from all the others, exceedingly terrible and shocking, whose teeth were of iron and its nails of bronze, which devoured, broke and crushed, and trampled what was left with its feet," 
Daniel7:20 And about the ten horns [representing kings] that were on its head, and the other horn which came up later and before which three of [the horns] fell, the horn which had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things and which looked greater than the others." 
Daniel7:21 As I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them [Rev. 13:7-9.]" 
Daniel7:22 Until the Ancient of Days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High [God], and the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom." 
Daniel7:23 Thus [the angel] said, The fourth beast shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different from all other kingdoms and shall devour the whole earth, tread it down, and break it in pieces and crush it." 
Daniel7:24 And as for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise; and another shall arise after them, and he shall be different from the former ones, and he shall subdue and put down three kings." 
Daniel7:25 And he shall speak words against the Most High [God] and shall wear out the saints of the Most High and think to change the time [of sacred feasts and holy days] and the law; and the saints shall be given into his hand for a time, two times, and half a time [three and one-half years]. [Rev. 13:1-6.]" 
Daniel7:26 But the judgment shall be set [by the court of the Most High], and they shall take away his dominion to consume it [gradually] and to destroy it [suddenly] in the end." 
Daniel7:27 And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heavens shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High; His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all the dominions shall serve and obey Him." 
Daniel7:28 Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my [waking] thoughts troubled and alarmed me much and my cheerfulness of countenance was changed in me; but I kept the matter [of the interpreting angel's information] in my heart and mind." 
Daniel8:1 IN THE third year of the reign of King Belshazzar a vision appeared to me, Daniel, after the one that appeared to me at the first." 
Daniel8:2 And I saw in the vision and it seemed that I was at Shushan the palace or fortress [in Susa, the capital of Persia], which is in the province of Elam, and I saw in the vision and I was by the river of Ulai." 
Daniel8:3 And I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there stood before the river a [single] ram which had two horns [representing two kings of Medo-Persia: Darius the Mede, then Cyrus]; and the two horns were high, but one [Persia] was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last." 
Daniel8:4 I looked and saw the ram [Medo-Persia] pushing and charging westward and northward and southward; no beast could stand before him, neither could anyone rescue from his power, but he did according to his [own] will and pleasure and magnified himself. [Dan. 8:20.]" 
Daniel8:5 As I was considering, behold, a he-goat [the king of Greece] came from the west across the face of the whole earth without touching the ground, and the goat had a conspicuous and remarkable horn between his eyes [symbolizing Alexander the Great]. [Dan. 8:21.]" 
Daniel8:6 And he came to the ram that had the two horns which I had seen standing on the bank of the river and ran at him in the heat of his power. 
Daniel8:7 [In my vision] I saw him come close to the ram [Medo-Persia], and he was moved with anger against him and he [Alexander the Great] struck the ram and broke his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but the goat threw him to the ground and trampled on him. And there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power." 
Daniel8:8 And the he-goat [Alexander the Great] magnified himself exceedingly, and when he was [young and] strong, the great horn [he] was [suddenly] broken; and instead of [him] there came up four notable horns [to whom the kingdom was divided, one] toward [each of] the four winds of the heavens." 
Daniel8:9 Out of littleness and small beginnings one of them came forth [Antiochus Epiphanes], a horn whose [impious presumption and pride] grew exceedingly great toward the south and toward the east and toward the ornament [the precious, blessed land of Israel]. [Dan. 8:23.]" 
Daniel8:10 And [in my vision this horn] grew great, even against the host of heaven [God's true people, the saints], and some of the host and of the stars [priests] it cast down to the ground and trampled on them," 
Daniel8:11 Yes, [this horn] magnified itself, even [matching itself] against the Prince of the host [of heaven]; and from Him the continual [burnt offering] was taken away and the place of [God's] sanctuary was cast down and profaned." 
Daniel8:12 And the host [the chosen people] was given [to the wicked horn] together with the continual burnt offering because of the transgression [of God's people,their abounding irreverence, ungodliness, and lack of piety]. And righteousness and truth were cast down to the ground, and it [the wicked horn] accomplished this [by divine permission] and prospered." 
Daniel8:13 Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to the one that spoke, For how long is the vision concerning the continual offering, the transgression that makes desolate, and the giving over of both the sanctuary and the host [of the people] to be trampled underfoot? [Luke 21:24.]" 
Daniel8:14 And he said to him and to me, For 2,300 evenings and mornings; then the sanctuary shall be cleansed and restored." 
Daniel8:15 When I, even I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it; then behold, there stood before me one [Gabriel] with the appearance of a man." 
Daniel8:16 And I heard a man's voice between the banks of the [river] Ulai which called and said, Gabriel, make this man [Daniel] understand the vision. [Dan. 9:21; Luke 1:19, 26.]" 
Daniel8:17 So he came near where I stood, and when he came, I was frightened and fell on my face. But he said to me, Understand, O son of man, for the [fulfillment of the] vision belongs to [events that shall occur in] the time of the end." 
Daniel8:18 Now as he [Gabriel] was speaking with me, I fell stunned and in deep unconsciousness with my face to the ground; but he touched me and set me upright [where I had stood]." 
Daniel8:19 And he said, Behold, I will make you know what will be in the latter time of the indignation [of God upon the ungodly], for it has to do with the time of the end." 
Daniel8:20 The ram you saw having two horns, they are the kings of Media and Persia." 
Daniel8:21 And the shaggy and rough he-goat is the king of Greece, and the great horn between his eyes is the first king [who consolidated the whole realm, Alexander the Great]." 
Daniel8:22 And as for the horn which was shattered, in whose place four others arose, four kingdoms shall arise out of his nation but not having his [Alexander's] power." 
Daniel8:23 And at the latter end of their kingdom, when the transgressors [the apostate Jews] have reached the fullness [of their wickedness, taxing the limits of God's mercy], a king of fierce countenance and understanding dark trickery and craftiness shall stand up." 
Daniel8:24 And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall corrupt and destroy astonishingly and shall prosper and do his own pleasure, and he shall corrupt and destroy the mighty men and the holy people (the people of the saints). [Dan. 8:9-12; II Thess. 2:3-10; Rev. 13:4-10.]" 
Daniel8:25 And through his policy he shall cause trickery to prosper in his hand; he shall magnify himself in his heart and mind, and in their security he will corrupt and destroy many. He shall also stand up against the Prince of princes, but he shall be broken and that by no [human] hand. [Rev. 19:19, 20.]" 
Daniel8:26 The vision of the evenings and the mornings which has been told you is true. But seal up the vision, for it has to do with and belongs to the [now] distant future." 
Daniel8:27 And I, Daniel, fainted and was sick [for several] days. Afterward I rose up and did the king's business; and I wondered at the vision, but there was no one who understood it or could make it understood." 
Daniel9:1 IN THE first year of Darius son of Ahasuerus, of the offspring of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans," 
Daniel9:2 In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood from the books the number of years which, according to the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet, must pass by before the desolations [which had been] pronounced on Jerusalem should end; and it was seventy years. [Jer. 25:11, 12; 29:10.]" 
Daniel9:2 In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood from the books the number of years which, according to the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet, must pass by before the desolations [which had been] pronounced on Jerusalem should end; and it was seventy years. [Jer. 25:11, 12; 29:10.]" 
Daniel9:3 And I set my face to the Lord God to seek Him by prayer and supplications, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes;" 
Daniel9:4 And I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, Who keeps covenant, mercy, and loving-kindness with those who love Him and keep His commandments," 
Daniel9:5 We have sinned and dealt perversely and done wickedly and have rebelled, turning aside from Your commandments and ordinances." 
Daniel9:6 Neither have we listened to and heeded Your servants the prophets, who spoke in Your name to our kings, our princes and our fathers, and to all the people of the land." 
Daniel9:7 O Lord, righteousness belongs to You, but to us confusion and shame of face, as at this day,to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, to those who are near and those who are far off, through all the countries to which You have driven them because of the [treacherous] trespass which they have committed against You." 
Daniel9:8 O Lord, to us belong confusion and shame of face,to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers,because we have sinned against You." 
Daniel9:9 To the Lord our God belong mercy and loving-kindness and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against Him;" 
Daniel9:10 And we have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God by walking in His laws which He set before us through His servants the prophets. 
Daniel9:11 Yes, all Israel has transgressed Your law, even turning aside that they might not obey Your voice. Therefore the curse has been poured out on us and the oath that is written in the Law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against Him. [Lev. 26:14-45; Deut. 28:15-68.]" 
Daniel9:12 And He has carried out intact His [threatening] words which He threatened against us and against our judges [the kings, princes, and rulers generally] who ruled us, and He has brought upon us a great evil; for under the whole heavens there has not been done before [anything so dreadful] as [He has caused to be] done against Jerusalem." 
Daniel9:13 Just as it is written in the Law of Moses as to all this evil [that would surely come upon transgressors], so it has come upon us. Yet we have not earnestly begged for forgiveness and entreated the favor of the Lord our God, that we might turn from our iniquities and have understanding and become wise in Your truth. [Deut. 4:29; 28:15ff.]" 
Daniel9:14 Therefore the Lord has kept ready the calamity (evil) and has brought it upon us, for the Lord our God is [uncompromisingly] righteous and rigidly just in all His works which He does [keeping His word]; and we have not obeyed His voice." 
Daniel9:15 And now, O Lord our God, Who brought Your people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand and secured Yourself renown and a name as at this day, we have sinned, we have done wickedly!" 
Daniel9:16 O Lord, according to all Your rightness and justice, I beseech You, let Your anger and Your wrath be turned away from Your city Jerusalem, Your holy mountain. Because of our sins and the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and Your people have become a reproach and a byword to all who are around about us." 
Daniel9:17 Now therefore, O our God, listen to and heed the prayer of Your servant [Daniel] and his supplications, and for Your own sake cause Your face to shine upon Your sanctuary which is desolate." 
Daniel9:18 O my God, incline Your ear and hear; open Your eyes and look at our desolations and the city which is called by Your name; for we do not present our supplications before You for our own righteousness and justice, but for Your great mercy and loving-kindness." 
Daniel9:19 O Lord, hear! O Lord, forgive! O Lord, give heed and act! Do not delay, for Your own sake, O my God, because Your city and Your people are called by Your name." 
Daniel9:20 While I was speaking and praying, confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God for the holy hill of my God," 
Daniel9:21 Yes, while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the former vision, being caused to fly swiftly, came near to me and touched me about the time of the evening sacrifice. [Dan. 8:16.]" 
Daniel9:22 He instructed me and made me understand; he talked with me and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give you skill and wisdom and understanding." 
Daniel9:23 At the beginning of your prayers, the word [giving an answer] went forth, and I have come to tell you, for you are greatly beloved. Therefore consider the matter and understand the vision." 
Daniel9:24 Seventy weeks [of years, or 490 years] are decreed upon your people and upon your holy city [Jerusalem], to finish and put an end to transgression, to seal up and make full the measure of sin, to purge away and make expiation and reconciliation for sin, to bring in everlasting righteousness (permanent moral and spiritual rectitude in every area and relation) to seal up vision and prophecy and prophet, and to anoint a Holy of Holies." 
Daniel9:25 Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem until [the coming of] the Anointed One, a Prince, shall be seven weeks [of years] and sixty-two weeks [of years]; it shall be built again with [city] square and moat, but in troublous times." 
Daniel9:26 And after the sixty-two weeks [of years] shall the Anointed One be cut off or killed and shall have nothing [and no one] belonging to [and defending] Him. And the people of the [other] prince who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end shall come with a flood; and even to the end there shall be war, and desolations are decreed. [Isa. 53:7-9; Nah. 1:8; Matt. 24:6-14.]" 
Daniel9:27 And he shall enter into a strong and firm covenant with the many for one week [seven years]. And in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and offering to cease [for the remaining three and one-half years]; and upon the wing or pinnacle of abominations [shall come] one who makes desolate, until the full determined end is poured out on the desolator." 
Daniel10:1 IN THE third year of Cyrus king of Persia a word was revealed to Daniel, who was called Belteshazzar. And the word was true and it referred to great tribulation (conflict and wretchedness). And he understood the word and had understanding of the vision. [Dan. 8:26; Rev. 19:9.]" 
Daniel10:2 In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three whole weeks." 
Daniel10:3 I ate no pleasant or desirable food, nor did any meat or wine come into my mouth; and I did not anoint myself at all for the full three weeks." 
Daniel10:4 On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was on the bank of the great river Hiddekel [which is the Tigris]," 
Daniel10:5 I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with pure gold of Uphaz." 
Daniel10:6 His body also was [a golden luster] like beryl, his face had the appearance of lightning, his eyes were like flaming torches, his arms and his feet like glowing burnished bronze, and the sound of his words was like the noise of a multitude [of people or the roaring of the sea]. [Rev. 1:12-16; 19:6.]" 
Daniel10:7 And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision [of this heavenly being], for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great trembling fell upon them so that they fled to hide themselves." 
Daniel10:8 So I was left alone and saw this great vision, and no strength was left in me, for my fresh appearance was turned to pallor; I grew weak and faint [with fright]." 
Daniel10:9 Then I heard the sound of his words; and when I heard the sound of his words, I fell on my face in a deep sleep, with my face [sunk] to the ground." 
Daniel10:10 And behold, a hand touched me, which set me [unsteadily] upon my knees and upon the palms of my hands." 
Daniel10:11 And [the angel] said to me, O Daniel, you greatly beloved man, understand the words that I speak to you and stand upright, for to you I am now sent. And while he was saying this word to me, I stood up trembling." 
Daniel10:12 Then he said to me, Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your mind and heart to understand and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard, and I have come as a consequence of [and in response to] your words." 
Daniel10:13 But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me for twenty-one days. Then Michael, one of the chief [of the celestial] princes, came to help me, for I remained there with the kings of Persia." 
Daniel10:14 Now I have come to make you understand what is to befall your people in the latter days, for the vision is for [many] days yet to come." 
Daniel10:15 When he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground and was dumb." 
Daniel10:16 And behold, one in the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth and spoke. I said to him who stood before me, O my lord, by reason of the vision sorrows and pains have come upon me, and I retain no strength." 
Daniel10:17 For how can my lord's servant [who is so feeble] talk with this my lord? For now no strength remains in me, nor is there any breath left in me." 
Daniel10:18 Then there touched me again one whose appearance was like that of a man, and he strengthened me." 
Daniel10:19 And he said, O man greatly beloved, fear not! Peace be to you! Be strong, yes, be strong. And when he had spoken to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me." 
Daniel10:20 Then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? And now I will return to fight with the [hostile] prince of Persia; and when I have gone, behold, the [hostile] prince of Greece will come." 
Daniel10:21 But I will tell you what is inscribed in the writing of truth or the Book of Truth. There is no one who holds with me and strengthens himself against these [hostile spirit forces] except Michael, your prince [national guardian angel]." 
Daniel11:1 ALSO I [the angel], in the first year of Darius the Mede, even I, stood up to confirm and to strengthen him [Michael, the angelic prince]." 
Daniel11:2 And now I will show you the truth. Behold, there shall arise three more kings in Persia, and a fourth shall be far richer than they all. And when he has become strong through his riches he shall stir up and stake all against the realm of Greece." 
Daniel11:3 Then a mighty [warlike, threatening] king shall arise who shall rule with great dominion and do according to his [own] will." 
Daniel11:4 And as soon as he has fully arisen, his [Alexander the Great's] kingdom shall be broken [by his death] and divided toward the four winds [the east, west, north, and south] of the heavens, but not to his posterity, nor according to the [Grecian] dominion which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be torn out and uprooted and go to others [to his four generals] to the exclusion of these." 
Daniel11:5 Then the king of the South (Egypt) shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he is and have dominion; his dominion shall be a great dominion." 
Daniel11:6 At the end of some years they [the king of the North, Syria, and the king of the South, Egypt] shall make an alliance; the daughter of the king of the South shall come to the king of the North to make [a just and peaceful marriage] agreement; but she shall not retain the power of her might, neither shall he and his might endure. She shall be handed over with her attendants, her child, and him who strengthened her in those times." 
Daniel11:7 But out of a branch of the [same ancestral] roots as hers shall one [her brother] stand up in his place or office, who shall come against the [Syrian] army and shall enter into the fortress of the king of the North and shall deal against them and shall prevail." 
Daniel11:8 And also he shall carry off to Egypt their [Syria's] gods with their molten images and with their precious vessels of silver and of gold, and he shall refrain for some years from [waging war against] the king of the North." 
Daniel11:9 And he [the king of Syria] shall come into the kingdom of the king of the South but shall return to his own land. 
Daniel11:10 But his sons shall be stirred up and shall prepare for war and shall assemble a multitude of great forces, which shall come on and overflow and pass through and again shall make war even to the fortress [of the king of the South]." 
Daniel11:11 And the king of the South (Egypt) shall be moved with anger and shall come forth and fight with the king of the North (Syria); and he [the Syrian king] shall set forth a great multitude, but the multitude shall be given into his [the Egyptian king's] hand." 
Daniel11:12 When the multitude is taken and carried away, the heart and mind [of the Egyptian king] shall be exalted, and he shall cast down tens of thousands, but he shall not prevail." 
Daniel11:13 For the king of the North shall raise a multitude greater than [he had] before, and after some years shall certainly return, coming with a great army and much substance and equipment." 
Daniel11:14 In those times many shall rise up against the king of the South (Egypt); also the men of violence among your own people shall lift themselves up in order to fulfill the visions [of Dan. 8 and 9], but they shall fail and fall." 
Daniel11:15 Then the king of the North shall come and cast up siege works and take a well-fortified city, and the forces of the South shall not stand, or even his chosen troops, for there shall be no strength to stand [against the Syrian king]." 
Daniel11:16 But he [Antiochus the Great] who comes against him [from Syria] shall do according to his own will, and none shall stand before him; he shall stand in the glorious land [of Israel], and in his hand shall be destruction and all the land shall be in his power." 
Daniel11:17 He [Antiochus the Great] shall set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and with him upright conditions and terms of peace, and he shall perform them [by making an agreement with the king of the South]. He shall give him [his] daughter to corrupt and destroy it [his league with Egypt] and the kingdom, but it shall not succeed or be to his advantage." 
Daniel11:18 After this he shall turn his attention to the islands and coastlands and shall take over many of them. But a prince or commander shall teach him [Antiochus the Great] to put an end to the insults offered by him; in fact he shall turn his insolence and reproaches back upon him. 
Daniel11:19 Then he shall turn his face back toward the fortresses of his own land [of Syria], but he shall stumble and fall and not be found." 
Daniel11:20 Then shall stand up in his place or office one who shall send an exactor of tribute to pass through the glory of the kingdom, but within a few days he shall be destroyed, [yet] neither in anger nor in battle." 
Daniel11:21 And in his place or office [in Syria] shall arise a contemptuous and contemptible person, to whom royal majesty and honor of the kingdom have not been given. But he shall come in without warning in time of security and shall obtain the kingdom by flatteries, intrigues, and cunning hypocritical conduct. [Dan. 8:9-12, 23-25.]" 
Daniel11:22 Before him the overwhelming forces of invading armies shall be broken and utterly swept away; yes, and a prince of the covenant [with those who were at peace with him] also [shall be broken and swept away]." 
Daniel11:23 And from the time that an alliance is made with him he shall work deceitfully, and he shall come up unexpectedly and shall become strong with a small people." 
Daniel11:24 Without warning and stealthily he shall come into the most productive places of a province or among the richest men of a province [of Egypt], and he shall do that which his fathers have not done nor his fathers' fathers; he shall distribute among them plunder, spoil, and goods. He shall devise plans against strongholds,but only for a time [the period decreed by God]." 
Daniel11:25 And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king of the South [Egypt] with a great army; and the king of the South shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for schemes shall be devised against [the king of the South]." 
Daniel11:26 Yes, those who eat of his rich and dainty food shall break and destroy him, and his army shall drift or turn away to flee, and many shall fall down slain." 
Daniel11:27 And as for both of these kings, their hearts and minds shall be set on doing mischief; they shall speak lies over the same table, but it will not succeed, for the end is yet to be at the time appointed." 
Daniel11:28 Then shall [the vile conqueror from the North] return into his land with much booty; and his heart and purpose shall be set against [God's] holy covenant [with His people], and he shall accomplish [his malicious intention] and return to his own land [Syria]." 
Daniel11:29 At the time appointed [God's own time] he shall return and come into the South, but it shall not be successful as were the former invasions [of Egypt]." 
Daniel11:30 For the ships of Kittim [or Cyprus, in Roman hands] shall come against him; therefore he shall be grieved and discouraged and turn back [to Palestine] and carry out his rage and indignation against the holy covenant and God's people, and he shall do his own pleasure; he shall even turn back and make common cause with those [Jews] who abandon the holy covenant [with God]." 
Daniel11:31 And armed forces of his shall appear [in the holy land] and they shall pollute the sanctuary, the [spiritual] stronghold, and shall take away the continual [daily burnt offering]; and they shall set up [in the sanctuary] the abomination that astonishes and makes desolate [probably an altar to a pagan god]." 
Daniel11:32 And such as violate the covenant he shall pervert and seduce with flatteries, but the people who know their God shall prove themselves strong and shall stand firm and do exploits [for God]." 
Daniel11:33 And they who are wise and understanding among the people shall instruct many and make them understand, though some [of them and their followers] shall fall by the sword and flame, by captivity and plunder, for many days." 
Daniel11:34 Now when they fall, they shall receive a little help. Many shall join themselves to them with flatteries and hypocrisies." 
Daniel11:35 And some of those who are wise, prudent, and understanding shall be weakened and fall, [thus, then, the insincere among the people will lose courage and become deserters. It will be a test] to refine, to purify, and to make those among [God's people] white, even to the time of the end, because it is yet for the time [God] appointed." 
Daniel11:36 And the king shall do according to his will; he shall exalt himself and magnify himself above every god and shall speak astonishing things against the God of gods and shall prosper till the indignation be accomplished, for that which is determined [by God] shall be done." 
Daniel11:37 He shall not regard the gods of his fathers or Him [to Whom] women desire [to give birth,the Messiah] or any other god, for he shall magnify himself above all." 
Daniel11:38 But in their place he shall honor the god of fortresses; a god whom his fathers knew not shall he honor with gold and silver, with precious stones, and with pleasant and expensive things." 
Daniel11:39 And he shall deal with the strongest fortresses by the help of a foreign god. Those who acknowledge him he shall magnify with glory and honor, and he shall cause them to rule over many and shall divide the land for a price." 
Daniel11:40 And at the time of the end the king of the South shall push at and attack him, and the king of the North shall come against him like a whirlwind, with chariots and horsemen and with many ships; and he shall enter into the countries and shall overflow and pass through." 
Daniel11:41 He shall enter into the Glorious Land [Palestine] and many shall be overthrown, but these shall be delivered out of his hand: Edom, Moab, and the main [core] of the people of Ammon." 
Daniel11:42 He shall stretch out his hand also against the [other] countries, but the land of Egypt shall not be among the escaped ones." 
Daniel11:43 But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver and over all the precious things of Egypt, and the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall accompany him [compelled to follow his steps]." 
Daniel11:44 But rumors from the east and from the north shall alarm and hasten him. And he shall go forth with great fury to destroy and utterly to sweep away many. 
Daniel11:45 And he shall pitch his palatial tents between the seas and the glorious holy Mount [Zion]; yet he shall come to his end with none to help him. [II Thess. 2:4; Rev. 13:5-8.] 
Daniel12:1 AND AT that time [of the end] Michael shall arise, the great [angelic] prince who defends and has charge of your [Daniel's] people. And there shall be a time of trouble, straitness, and distress such as never was since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone whose name shall be found written in the Book [of God's plan for His own]." 
Daniel12:2 And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake: some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt and abhorrence. [John 5:29.] 
Daniel12:3 And the teachers and those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who turn many to righteousness (to uprightness and right standing with God) [shall give forth light] like the stars forever and ever. [Matt. 13:43.]" 
Daniel12:4 But you, O Daniel, shut up the words and seal the Book until the time of the end. [Then] many shall run to and fro and search anxiously [through the Book], and knowledge [of God's purposes as revealed by His prophets] shall be increased and become great. [Amos 8:12.]" 
Daniel12:4 But you, O Daniel, shut up the words and seal the Book until the time of the end. [Then] many shall run to and fro and search anxiously [through the Book], and knowledge [of God's purposes as revealed by His prophets] shall be increased and become great. [Amos 8:12.]" 
Daniel12:5 Then I, Daniel, looked, and behold, there stood two others, the one on the brink of the river on this side and the other on the brink of the river on that side." 
Daniel12:6 And one said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders? [Dan. 10:5.]" 
Daniel12:7 And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he held up his right and his left hand toward the heavens and swore by Him Who lives forever that it shall be for a time, times, and a half a time [or three and one-half years]; and when they have made an end of shattering and crushing the power of the holy people, all these things shall be finished." 
Daniel12:8 And I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, O my lord, what shall be the issue and final end of these things?" 
Daniel12:9 And he [the angel] said, Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed till the time of the end." 
Daniel12:10 Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be tried, smelted, and refined, but the wicked shall do wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but the teachers and those who are wise shall understand. [Dan. 11:33-35.]" 
Daniel12:11 And from the time that the continual burnt offering is taken away and the abomination that makes desolate is set up, there shall be 1,290 days. [Dan. 11:31.]" 
Daniel12:12 Blessed, happy, fortunate, spiritually prosperous, and to be envied is he who waits expectantly and earnestly [who endures without wavering beyond the period of tribulation] and comes to the 1,335 days!" 
Daniel12:13 But you [Daniel, who was now over ninety years of age], go your way until the end; for you shall rest and shall stand [fast] in your allotted place at the end of the days. [Heb. 11:32-40.]" 
Hosea1:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Hosea son of Beeri in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam son of Joash king of Israel." 
Hosea1:2 When the Lord first spoke with and through Hosea, the Lord said to him, Go, take to yourself a wife of harlotry and have children of [her] harlotry, for the land commits great whoredom by departing from the Lord." 
Hosea1:3 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim, and she became pregnant and bore him a son." 
Hosea1:4 And the Lord said to him, Call his name Jezreel or God-sows, for yet a little while and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel and visit the punishment for it upon the house of Jehu, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel. [II Kings 10:11.]" 
Hosea1:5 And on that day I will break the bow of Israel in the Valley of Jezreel. 
Hosea1:6 And [Gomer] conceived again and bore a daughter. And the Lord said to Hosea, Call her name Lo-Ruhamah or Not-pitied, for I will no more have love, pity, and mercy on the house of Israel, that I should in any way pardon them." 
Hosea1:7 But I will have love, pity, and mercy on the house of Judah and will deliver them by the Lord their God and will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by equipment of war, nor by horses, nor by horsemen. [Isa. 31:8; 37:33-35.]" 
Hosea1:8 Now when [Gomer] had weaned Lo-Ruhamah [Not-pitied], she became pregnant [again] and bore a son." 
Hosea1:9 And the Lord said, Call his name Lo-Ammi [Not-my-people], for you are not My people and I am not your God." 
Hosea1:10 Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or numbered; and instead of it being said to them, You are not My people, it shall be said to them, Sons of the Living God! [Rom. 9:26.]" 
Hosea1:11 Then shall the children of Judah and the children of Israel be gathered together and appoint themselves one head, and they shall go up out of the land, for great shall be the day of Jezreel [for the spiritually reborn Israel, a divine offspring, the people whom the Lord has blessed.] [Isa. 11:12, 13; Ezek. 37:15-28.]" 
Hosea2:1 [HOSEA], SAY to your brethren, Ammi [or You-are-my-people], and to your sisters, Ruhamah [or You-have-been-pitied-and-have-obtained-mercy]." 
Hosea2:2 Plead with your mother [your nation]; plead, for she is not My wife and I am not her Husband; [plead] that she put away her [marks of] harlotry from her face and her adulteries from between her breasts, [Isa. 50:1.]" 
Hosea2:3 Lest I strip her naked and make her as in the day she was born, and make her as a wilderness and set her like a parched land and slay her with thirst." 
Hosea2:4 Yes, for her children I will have no love nor pity nor mercy, for they are the children of harlotry." 
Hosea2:5 For their mother has played the harlot; she who conceived them has done shamefully, for she said, I will go after my lovers that give me my food and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my refreshing drinks." 
Hosea2:6 Therefore, behold, I [the Lord God] will hedge up her way [even yours, O Israel] with thorns; and I will build a wall against her that she shall not find her paths." 
Hosea2:7 And she shall follow after her lovers but she shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them [inquiring for and requiring them], but shall not find them. Then shall she say, Let me go and return to my first husband, for then was it better with me than now." 
Hosea2:8 For she has not noticed, understood, or realized that it was I [the Lord God] Who gave her the grain and the new wine and the fresh oil, and Who lavished upon her silver and gold which they used for Baal and made into his image." 
Hosea2:9 Therefore will I return and take back My grain in the time for it and My new wine in the season for it, and will pluck away and recover My wool and My flax which were to cover her [Israel's] nakedness." 
Hosea2:10 And now will I uncover her lewdness and her shame in the sight of her lovers, and no one shall rescue her out of My hand." 
Hosea2:11 I will also cause to cease all her mirth, her feastmaking, her New Moons, her Sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts and appointed festive assemblies." 
Hosea2:12 And I will lay waste and destroy her vines and her fig trees of which she has said, These are my reward or loose woman's hire that my lovers have given me; and I will make [her plantations] an inaccessible forest, and the wild beasts of the open country shall eat them." 
Hosea2:13 And I will visit [punishment] upon her for the feast days of the Baals, when she burned incense to them and decked herself with her earrings and nose rings and her jewelry and went after her lovers and forgot Me, says the Lord." 
Hosea2:14 Therefore, behold, I will allure her [Israel] and bring her into the wilderness, and I will speak tenderly and to her heart." 
Hosea2:15 There I will give her her vineyards and make the Valley of Achor [troubling] to be for her a door of hope and expectation. And she shall sing there and respond as in the days of her youth and as at the time when she came up out of the land of Egypt. [Exod. 15:2; Josh. 7:24-26.] 
Hosea2:16 And it shall be in that day, says the Lord, that you will call Me Ishi [my Husband], and you shall no more call Me Baali [my Baal]." 
Hosea2:17 For I will take away the names of Baalim [the Baals] out of her mouth, and they shall no more be mentioned or seriously remembered by their name." 
Hosea2:18 And in that day will I make a covenant for Israel with the living creatures of the open country and with the birds of the heavens and with the creeping things of the ground. And I will break the bow and the sword and [abolish battle equipment and] conflict out of the land and will make you lie down safely. 
Hosea2:19 And I will betroth you to Me forever; yes, I will betroth you to Me in righteousness and justice, in steadfast love, and in mercy." 
Hosea2:20 I will even betroth you to Me in stability and in faithfulness, and you shall know (recognize, be acquainted with, appreciate, give heed to, and cherish) the Lord." 
Hosea2:21 And in that day I will respond, says the Lord; I will respond to the heavens [which ask for rain to pour on the earth], and they shall respond to the earth [which begs for the rain it needs]," 
Hosea2:22 And the earth shall respond to the grain and the wine and the oil [which beseech it to bring them forth], and these shall respond to Jezreel [restored Israel, who prays for a supply of them]." 
Hosea2:23 And I will sow her for Myself anew in the land, and I will have love, pity, and mercy for her who had not obtained love, pity, and mercy; and I will say to those who were not My people, You are My people, and they shall say, You are my God! [I Pet. 2:9, 10.]" 
Hosea3:1 THEN SAID the Lord to me, Go again, love [the same] woman [Gomer] who is beloved of a paramour and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins [used in the sacrificial feasts in idol worship]." 
Hosea3:2 So I bought her for fifteen pieces of silver and a homer and a half of barley [the price of a slave]. 
Hosea3:3 And I said to her, You shall be [betrothed] to me for many days; you shall not play the harlot and you shall not belong to another man. So will I also be to you [until you have proved your loyalty to me and our marital relations may be resumed]." 
Hosea3:4 For the children of Israel shall dwell and sit deprived many days, without king or prince, without sacrifice or [idolatrous] pillar, and without ephod [a garment worn by priests when seeking divine counsel] or teraphim (household gods)." 
Hosea3:5 Afterward shall the children of Israel return and seek the Lord their God, [inquiring of and requiring Him] and [from the line of] David, their King [of kings]; and they shall come in [anxious] fear to the Lord and to His goodness and His good things in the latter days. [Jer. 30:9; Ezek. 34:24.]" 
Hosea4:1 HEAR THE word of the Lord, you children of Israel, for the Lord has a controversy (a pleading contention) with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no faithfulness, love, pity and mercy, or knowledge of God [from personal experience with Him] in the land." 
Hosea4:2 There is nothing but [false] swearing and breaking faith and killing and stealing and committing adultery; they break out [into violence], one [deed of] bloodshed following close on another." 
Hosea4:3 Therefore shall the land [continually] mourn, and all who dwell in it shall languish, together with the wild beasts of the open country and the birds of the heavens; yes, the fishes of the sea also shall [perish because of the drought] be collected and taken away." 
Hosea4:4 Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove [another,do not waste your time in mutual recriminations], for with you is My contention, O priest." 
Hosea4:5 And you shall stumble in the daytime, and the [false] prophet also shall stumble with you in the night; and I will destroy your mother [the priestly nation]. [Exod. 19:6.]" 
Hosea4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge; because you [the priestly nation] have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you that you shall be no priest to Me; seeing you have forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your children." 
Hosea4:7 The more they increased and multiplied [in prosperity and power], the more they sinned against Me; I will change their glory into shame." 
Hosea4:8 They feed on the sin of My people and set their heart on their iniquity. 
Hosea4:9 And it shall be: Like people, like priest; I will punish them for their ways and repay them for their doings." 
Hosea4:10 For they shall eat and not have enough; they shall play the harlot and beget no increase, because they have forsaken the Lord for harlotry;" 
Hosea4:11 Harlotry and wine and new wine take away the heart and the mind and the spiritual understanding. 
Hosea4:12 My people [habitually] ask counsel of their [senseless] wood [idols], and their staff [of wood] gives them oracles and instructs them. For the spirit of harlotry has led them astray and they have played the harlot, withdrawing themselves from subjection to their God." 
Hosea4:13 They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains, and they burn incense upon the hills and under oaks, poplars, and terebinths, because there the shade is good. Therefore your daughters play the harlot and your sons' wives commit adultery." 
Hosea4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they play the harlot nor your daughters-in-law when they commit adultery, for [the fathers and husbands] themselves go aside in order to be alone with women who prostitute themselves for gain, and they sacrifice at the altar with dedicated harlots [who surrender their chastity in honor of the goddess]. Therefore the people without understanding shall stumble and fall and come to ruin." 
Hosea4:15 Though you, Israel, play the harlot and worship idols, let not Judah offend and become guilty; come not to Gilgal, neither go up to Beth-aven [contemptuous reference to Bethel, then noted for idolatry], nor swear [in idolatrous service, saying], As the Lord lives." 
Hosea4:16 For Israel has behaved stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer. How then should he expect to be fed and treated by the Lord like a lamb in a large pasture?" 
Hosea4:17 Ephraim is joined [fast] to idols, [so] let him alone [to take the consequences]." 
Hosea4:18 Their drinking carousal over, they go habitually to play the harlot; [Ephraim's] rulers [continue to] love shame more than her glory [which is the Lord, Israel's God]." 
Hosea4:19 The resistless wind [of God's wrath] has bound up [Israel] in its wings or skirts, and [in captivity] they and their altars shall be put to shame because of their sacrifices [to calves, to sun, moon, and stars, and to heathen gods]." 
Hosea5:1 HEAR THIS, O you priests! And listen, O house of Israel! And give ear, O house of the king! For the judgment pronounced pertains to you and is meant for you, because you have been a snare at Mizpah and a net spread upon Tabor [military strongholds on either side of the Jordan River]." 
Hosea5:2 The revolters are deeply sunk in corruption and slaughter, but I [the Lord God] am a rebuke and a chastisement for them all." 
Hosea5:3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from Me; for now, O Ephraim, you have played the harlot and have worshiped idols; Israel is defiled." 
Hosea5:4 Their doings will not permit them to return to their God, for the spirit of harlotry is within them and they know not the Lord [they do not recognize, appreciate, give heed to, or cherish the Lord]." 
Hosea5:5 But the pride and self-reliance of Israel testifies before his [own] face. Therefore shall [all] Israel, and [especially] Ephraim [the northern ten tribes], totter and fall in their iniquity and guilt, and Judah shall stumble and fall with them." 
Hosea5:6 They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the Lord [inquiring for and requiring Him], but they will not find Him; He has withdrawn Himself from them." 
Hosea5:7 They have dealt faithlessly and treacherously with the Lord [their espoused Husband], for they have borne alien children. Now shall a [single] New Moon (one month) devour them with their fields." 
Hosea5:8 Blow the horn in Gibeah and the trumpet in Ramah [both lofty hills on Benjamin's northern border]. Sound the alarm at Beth-aven: [the enemy is] behind you and after you, O Benjamin [be on your guard]!" 
Hosea5:9 Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of rebuke and punishment. Among the tribes of Israel I declare what shall surely be. 
Hosea5:10 The princes of Judah are like those who remove the landmark [the barrier between right and wrong]; I will pour out My wrath upon them like water. [Deut. 19:14; Prov. 22:28.] 
Hosea5:11 Ephraim is oppressed; he is broken and crushed by [divine] judgment, because he was content to walk after idols (images) and man's [evil] command (vanities and filth)." 
Hosea5:12 Therefore I am like a moth to Ephraim and like dry rot to the house of Judah [in My judgment against them]. 
Hosea5:13 When Ephraim saw his sickness and Judah saw his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria and sent to [Assyria's] great King Jareb [for help]. Yet he cannot heal you nor will he cure you of your wound [received in divine judgment]." 
Hosea5:14 For I will be to Ephraim like a lion, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will rend and go on [rending]; I will carry off and there will be no one to deliver." 
Hosea5:15 I will return to My place [on high] until they acknowledge their offense and feel their guilt and seek My face; in their affliction and distress they will seek, inquire for, and require Me earnestly, saying," 
Hosea6:1 COME AND let us return to the Lord, for He has torn so that He may heal us; He has stricken so that He may bind us up." 
Hosea6:2 After two days He will revive us (quicken us, give us life); on the third day He will raise us up that we may live before Him. [Isa. 26:19; Ezek. 37:1-10.]" 
Hosea6:3 Yes, let us know (recognize, be acquainted with, and understand) Him; let us be zealous to know the Lord [to appreciate, give heed to, and cherish Him]. His going forth is prepared and certain as the dawn, and He will come to us as the [heavy] rain, as the latter rain that waters the earth." 
Hosea6:4 O Ephraim, what shall I do with you? [says the Lord] O Judah, what shall I do with you? For your [wavering] love and kindness are like the night mist or like the dew that goes early away." 
Hosea6:5 Therefore have I hewn down and smitten them by means of the prophets; I have slain them by the words of My mouth; My judgments [pronounced upon them by you prophets] are like the light that goes forth. 
Hosea6:6 For I desire and delight in dutiful steadfast love and goodness, not sacrifice, and the knowledge of and acquaintance with God more than burnt offerings. [Matt. 9:13; 12:7.]" 
Hosea6:7 But they, like [less-privileged] men and like Adam, have transgressed the covenant; there have they dealt faithlessly and treacherously with Me." 
Hosea6:8 Gilead is a city of evildoers; it is tracked with bloody [footprints]. 
Hosea6:9 And as troops of robbers lie in wait for a man, so the company of priests murder on the road toward Shechem; yes, they commit villainy and outrages." 
Hosea6:10 I have seen a horrible thing in the house of Israel! There harlotry and idolatry are found in Ephraim; Israel is defiled. 
Hosea6:11 Also, O Judah, there is a harvest [of divine judgment] appointed for you; when I would return My people from their captivity [in which they are slaves to the misery brought on by their own sins]," 
Hosea7:1 WHEN I would heal Israel, then Ephraim's guilt is uncovered, and the wickedness of Samaria; how they practice falsehood, and the thief enters and the troop of bandits ravage and raid without." 
Hosea7:2 But they do not consider and say to their minds and hearts that I [earnestly] remember all their wickedness. Now their own doings surround and entangle them; they are before My face. 
Hosea7:3 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies." 
Hosea7:4 They are all [idolatrous] adulterers; their passion smolders like heat of an oven when the baker ceases to stir the fire from the kneading of the dough until it is leavened. 
Hosea7:5 On the [special] day of our king the princes made themselves and him sick with the heat of wine; [the king] stretched out his hand with scoffers and lawless men. 
Hosea7:6 For they have made ready their heart, and their mind burns [with intrigue] like an oven while they lie in wait. Their anger smolders all night; in the morning it blazes forth as a flaming fire." 
Hosea7:7 They are all hot as an oven and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen; there is none among them who calls to Me. 
Hosea7:8 Ephraim mixes himself among the peoples [courting the favor of first one country, then another]; Ephraim is a cake not turned." 
Hosea7:9 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knows it not; yes, gray hairs are sprinkled here and there upon him, and he does not know it." 
Hosea7:10 And the pride of Israel testifies against him and to his face. But they do not return to the Lord their God, nor seek nor inquire of nor require Him in spite of all this." 
Hosea7:11 Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart or understanding; they call to Egypt; they go to Assyria. 
Hosea7:12 As they go, I will spread My net over them; I will bring them down like birds of the heavens. I will chastise them according to the announcement [or prediction made] to their congregation [in the Scriptures]. [Lev. 26:14-39.]" 
Hosea7:13 Woe to them, for they have wandered from Me! Destruction to them, because they have rebelled and trespassed against Me! Though I would redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against Me." 
Hosea7:14 They do not cry to Me from their heart, but they wail upon their beds; they gash and distress and assemble themselves [in mourning] for grain and new wine; they rebel against Me." 
Hosea7:15 Although I have chastened them and trained and strengthened their arms, yet they think and devise evil against Me." 
Hosea7:16 They turn back, shift, or change, but not upwards [to the Most High]. They are like a deceitful bow; their princes shall fall by the sword for the insolence and rage of their tongue. This shall be [cause for] their derision and scorning in the land of Egypt." 
Hosea8:1 SET THE trumpet to your lips! [The enemy] comes as a [great] vulture against the house of the Lord, because they have broken My covenant and transgressed against My law." 
Hosea8:2 Then they will cry to Me, My God, we [of Israel] know You!" 
Hosea8:3 Israel has rejected the good [with loathing]; the enemy shall pursue him. 
Hosea8:4 They set up kings, but not from Me [therefore without My blessing]; they have made princes or removed them [without consulting Me; therefore], I knew and recognized [them] not. With their silver and their gold they made idols for themselves, that they [the silver and the gold] may be destroyed." 
Hosea8:5 Your calf [idol], O Samaria, is loathsome and I have spurned it. My wrath burns against them. How long will it be before they attain purity?" 
Hosea8:6 For this [calf] too is from Israel; a craftsman made it; therefore it is not God. The calf of Samaria shall be broken to shivers and go up in flames. 
Hosea8:7 For they sow the wind and they shall reap the whirlwind. The standing grain has no heads; it shall yield no meal; if it were to yield, strangers and aliens would eat it up." 
Hosea8:8 Israel is [as if] swallowed up. Already they have become among the nations as a vessel [of cheap, coarse pottery] that is useless." 
Hosea8:9 For they are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass taking her own way by herself; Ephraim has hired lovers." 
Hosea8:10 Yes, though with presents they hire [allies] among the nations, now will I gather them up, and in a little while they will sorrow and begin to diminish [their gifts] because of the burden (tribute) imposed by the king of princes [the king of Assyria]." 
Hosea8:11 For Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning; yes, to him altars are intended for sinning." 
Hosea8:12 I wrote for him the ten thousand things of My law, but they are counted as a strange thing [as something which does not concern him]." 
Hosea8:13 My sacrificial gifts they sacrifice [as a mere form]; yes, they sacrifice flesh and eat it, but the Lord does not accept them. Now He will [earnestly] remember their guilt and iniquity and will punish their sins. They shall return to [another] Egypt [Assyria]. [Deut. 28:68.]" 
Hosea8:14 For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces and idol temples, and Judah has multiplied fortified cities; but I will send a fire upon his cities and it shall devour his palaces and fortified buildings. [Amos 1:4, 7, 10, 12, 14; 2:2, 5.]" 
Hosea8:14 For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces and idol temples, and Judah has multiplied fortified cities; but I will send a fire upon his cities and it shall devour his palaces and fortified buildings. [Amos 1:4, 7, 10, 12, 14; 2:2, 5.]" 
Hosea9:1 REJOICE NOT, O Israel, with exultation as do the peoples, for you have played the harlot, forsaking your God. You have loved [a harlot's] hire upon every threshing floor [ascribing the harvest to the Baals instead of to God]." 
Hosea9:2 The threshing floor and the winevat shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail them." 
Hosea9:3 They shall not remain in the Lord's land, but Ephraim shall return to [another] Egypt and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria. [Ezek. 4:13.]" 
Hosea9:4 They shall not pour out wine offerings to the Lord, neither shall they be pleasing to Him. Their sacrifices shall be to them as the bread of mourners; all who eat of them shall be defiled, for their bread shall be [only] for their appetite; it shall not come into the house of the Lord [to be offered first to Him]." 
Hosea9:5 What will you do on the day of the appointed solemn assembly or festival and on the day of the feast of the Lord [when you are in exile]? 
Hosea9:6 For behold, they are gone away from devastation and destruction; Egypt shall gather them in; Memphis shall bury them. Their precious things of silver shall be in the possession of nettles; thorns shall be [growing] in their tents." 
Hosea9:7 The days of visitation and punishment have come; the days of recompense have come; Israel shall know it. The prophet is [considered] a crazed fool and the man who is inspired is [treated as if] mad or a fanatic, because of the abundance of your iniquity and because the enmity, hostility, and persecution are great. [Luke 21:22.]" 
Hosea9:8 Ephraim was [intended to be] a watchman with my God [and a prophet to the surrounding nations]; but he, that prophet, has become a fowler's snare in all his ways. There is enmity, hostility, and persecution in the house of his God." 
Hosea9:9 They have deeply corrupted themselves as in the days of Gibeah. The Lord will [earnestly] remember their iniquity; He will punish their sins. [Judg. 20.] 
Hosea9:10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the first ripe fruit on the fig tree in its first season, but they went to Baal-peor and consecrated themselves to that shameful thing [Baal], and they became detestable and loathsome like that which they loved." 
Hosea9:11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird; there shall be no birth, no being with child, and [because of their impurity] no becoming pregnant." 
Hosea9:12 Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them so that not a man shall be left; yes, woe also to them when I look away and depart from them!" 
Hosea9:13 Ephraim, as I have seen with Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place, but Ephraim shall bring out his children to the slayer." 
Hosea9:14 Give them [their due], O Lord! [But] what will You give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts." 
Hosea9:15 All their wickedness [says the Lord] is focused in Gilgal, for there I hated them; for the wickedness of their [idolatrous] doings I will drive them out of My house [the Holy Land]; I will love them no more; all their princes are rebels. [Hos. 4:15; 12:11.]" 
Hosea9:16 Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit. Yes, though they bring forth, yet will I slay even their beloved children." 
Hosea9:17 My God will cast them away because they did not listen to and obey Him, and they shall be wanderers and fugitives among the nations." 
Hosea10:1 ISRAEL IS a luxuriant vine that puts forth its [material] fruit. According to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied his altars [to idols]; according to the goodness and prosperity of their land they have made goodly pillars or obelisks [to false gods]. 
Hosea10:2 Their heart is divided and deceitful; now shall they be found guilty and suffer punishment. The Lord will smite and break down [the horns of] their altars; He will destroy their [idolatrous] pillars. 
Hosea10:3 Surely now they shall say, We have no [actual] king because we fear not the Lord; and as for the king, what can he do for us?" 
Hosea10:4 They have spoken mere words of the lips, swearing falsely in making covenants; therefore judgment springs up like hemlock [or other poisonous plants] in the furrows of the field." 
Hosea10:5 The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in terror for the calf [idol] of Beth-aven [the house of idolatry, contemptuously meaning Bethel], for its people shall mourn over it and its [idolatrous] priests who rejoiced over it [shall tremble] for the glory of [their calf god], because it is departed from it." 
Hosea10:6 [The golden calf] shall also be carried into Assyria as a tribute-gift to the fighting King Jareb; Ephraim shall be put to shame and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel [to set up calf worship and detach Israel from Judah]. 
Hosea10:7 As for Samaria, her king and her whole monarchy are cut off like twigs or foam upon the water." 
Hosea10:8 The high places also of Aven [once Beth(el), house of God, now (Beth-)aven, house of idolatry], the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed; the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their [idol] altars, and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us! And to the hills, Fall on us! [Luke 23:30; Rev. 6:16; 9:6.]" 
Hosea10:9 O Israel, you have [willfully] sinned from the days of Gibeah [when you all but wiped out the tribe of Benjamin]! There [Israel] stood [then, only] that the battle against the sons of unrighteousness might not overtake and turn against them at Gibeah [but now the kingdom of the ten tribes and the name of Ephraim shall be utterly blotted out]. [Judg. 20.]" 
Hosea10:10 When I please I will chastise them, and hostile peoples shall be gathered against them when I shall bind and yoke them for their two transgressions [revolt from the Lord their God and the worship of idols]. [Jer. 2:13; Lam. 3:31-33.]" 
Hosea10:11 Ephraim indeed is a heifer broken in and loving to tread out the grain, but I have [heretofore] spared the beauty of her fair neck. I will now set a rider upon Ephraim and make him to draw; Judah shall plow and Jacob shall break his clods." 
Hosea10:12 Sow for yourselves according to righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God); reap according to mercy and loving-kindness. Break up your uncultivated ground, for it is time to seek the Lord, to inquire for and of Him, and to require His favor, till He comes and teaches you righteousness and rains His righteous gift of salvation upon you. [II Cor. 9:10.]" 
Hosea10:13 You have plowed and plotted wickedness, you have reaped the [willful] injustice [of oppressors], you have eaten the fruit of lies. Because you have trusted in your [own] way and your chariots, in the multitude of your mighty men," 
Hosea10:14 Therefore shall a tumult arise against your people and all your fortresses shall be wasted and destroyed, as Shalmaneser wasted and destroyed Beth-arbel on the day of battle; the mother was dashed in pieces with her children. [II Kings 17:3.]" 
Hosea10:15 So shall it be done to you at [idolatrous] Bethel because of your great wickedness; at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off. 
Hosea11:1 WHEN ISRAEL was a child, then I loved him and called My son out of Egypt. [Matt. 2:15.]" 
Hosea11:2 The more [the prophets] called to them, the more they went from them; they kept sacrificing to the Baals and burning incense to the graven images." 
Hosea11:3 Yet I taught Ephraim to walk, taking them by their arms or taking them up in My arms, but they did not know that I healed them." 
Hosea11:4 I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love, and I was to them as one who lifts up and eases the yoke over their cheeks, and I bent down to them and gently laid food before them." 
Hosea11:5 They shall not [literally] return into [another bondage in] the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be their king because they refused to return to Me." 
Hosea11:6 And the sword shall rage against and fall upon their cities and shall consume the bars of their gates and shall make an end [of their defenses], because of their own counsels and devices." 
Hosea11:7 My people are bent on backsliding from Me; though [the prophets] call them to Him Who is on high, none at all will exalt Him or lift himself up [to come to Him]." 
Hosea11:8 How can I give you up, O Ephraim! How can I surrender you and cast you off, O Israel! How can I make you as Admah or how can I treat you as Zeboiim [both destroyed with Sodom]! My heart recoils within Me; My compassions are kindled together. [Deut. 29:23.]" 
Hosea11:9 I will not execute the fierceness of My anger; I will not bring back Ephraim to nothing or again destroy him. For I am God and not man, the Holy One in the midst of you, and I will not come in wrath or enter into the city." 
Hosea11:10 They shall walk after the Lord, Who will roar like a lion; He Himself will roar and [His] sons shall come trembling and eagerly from the west." 
Hosea11:11 They shall come trembling but hurriedly like a bird out of Egypt and like a dove out of the land of Assyria, and I will cause them to dwell in their houses, says the Lord." 
Hosea11:12 Ephraim surrounds Me with lies and the house of Israel with deceit, and Judah is not yet steadfast with God, with the faithful Holy One." 
Hosea12:1 EPHRAIM HERDS and feeds on the wind and pursues the [parching] east wind; every day he increases lies and violence, and a covenant is made with Assyria and oil is carried to Egypt. [Isa. 30:6, 7.]" 
Hosea12:2 The Lord has also a controversy (a pleading contention) with Judah, and will punish Jacob by visiting upon him according to his ways; according to his doings will He recompense him." 
Hosea12:3 He took his brother by the heel in [their mother's] womb, and in the strength [of his manhood] he contended and had power with God. [Gen. 25:26; 27:36.]" 
Hosea12:4 Yes, he had power over the Angel [of the Lord] and prevailed; he wept and sought His favor. He met Him in Bethel, and there [God] spoke with [him and through him with] us,[Gen. 28:12-19; 32:28; Gen. 35:1-15.]" 
Hosea12:5 Even the Lord the God of hosts, the name of Him [Who spoke with Jacob] is the Lord." 
Hosea12:6 Therefore return to your God! Hold fast to love and mercy, to righteousness and justice, and wait [expectantly] for your God continually!" 
Hosea12:7 Canaan [Israel,whose ideals have sunk to those of Canaan] is a trader; the balances of deceit are in his hand; he loves to oppress and defraud. 
Hosea12:8 Ephraim has said, Ah, but I have become rich; I have gained for myself wealth. All my profits shall bring on me no iniquity that would be sin. [But all his profits will never offset nor suffice to expiate the guilt which he has incurred.] [Rev. 3:17.]" 
Hosea12:9 But I [Who] am the Lord your God from [when you became a nation in] the land of Egypt will yet make you to dwell in tents, as in the days of the appointed and solemn Feast [of Tabernacles]. [Lev. 23:39-43.]" 
Hosea12:10 I have also spoken to [you by] the prophets, and I have multiplied visions [for you] and [have appealed to you] through parables acted out by the prophets." 
Hosea12:11 If Gilead is given over to idolatry, they shall come to nought and be mere waste; if they [insult God by] sacrificing bullocks in Gilgal [on heathen altars], their altars shall be like heaps in the furrows of the fields." 
Hosea12:12 Jacob fled into the open country of Aram or Padan-aram, and [there] Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he herded sheep. [Gen. 29:18-20; 30:31; 31:38-41.]" 
Hosea12:13 And by a prophet the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was [Israel] preserved." 
Hosea12:14 Ephraim has provoked most bitter anger; therefore shall his blood [guilt] be left upon him, and his disgrace and reproach shall his Lord return upon him." 
Hosea13:1 WHEN EPHRAIM spoke with trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but when he offended and became guilty in Baal worship, he died [spiritually, and then outward ruin came also, sealing Israel's doom as a nation]." 
Hosea13:2 And now they sin more and more and have made for themselves molten images of their silver, even idols according to their own understanding [as it pleased them], all of them the work of the craftsmen. To these [very works of their hands] they speak or pray who sacrifice to them; they kiss and show homage to the calves [as if they were alive]!" 
Hosea13:3 Therefore they shall be like the morning mist or like the dew that passes early away, like the chaff that swirls with the whirlwind from the threshing floor and as the smoke out of the chimney or through the window." 
Hosea13:4 Yet I am the Lord your God from [the time you became a nation in] the land of Egypt, and you shall know or recognize no God but Me, for there is no Savior besides Me." 
Hosea13:5 I knew (recognized, understood, and had regard for) you in the wilderness, in the land of great drought." 
Hosea13:6 According to their pasture, so were they filled [when they fed, they grew full], and their heart was lifted up; therefore have they forgotten Me." 
Hosea13:7 Therefore I have become to them like a lion; like a leopard I will lurk by the way [to Assyria] and watch them. 
Hosea13:8 I will meet them like a bear that is robbed of her cubs, and I will rend the covering of their heart, and there will I devour them like a lioness, as a wild beast would tear them." 
Hosea13:9 It is your destruction, O Israel, that you have been against Me, for in Me is your help." 
Hosea13:10 Where now is your king that he may save you in all your cities? And your judges of whom you said, Give me a king and princes?" 
Hosea13:11 I have given you a king in My anger, and I have taken him away in My wrath." 
Hosea13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim [not fully punished yet] is bound up [as in a bag]; his sin is laid up in store [for judgment and destruction]. 
Hosea13:13 The pains of a woman in childbirth are coming on for him [to be born]; but he is an unwise son, for now when it is time [to be born], he comes not to the place where [unborn] children break forth [he needs new birth but makes no effort to acquire it]." 
Hosea13:14 Should I ransom them from the power of Sheol (the place of the dead)? Should I redeem them from death? O death, where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your destruction? Relenting and compassion are hidden from My eyes. [I Cor. 15:55.]" 
Hosea13:15 For though among his brethren [his fellow tribes] he may be fruitful, an east wind [Assyria] will come, the breath of the Lord rising from the desert; and Ephraim's spring shall become dry and his fountain be dried up. [Assyria] shall plunder his treasury of every precious vessel." 
Hosea13:16 Samaria shall bear her guilt and become desolate, for she rebelled against her God; they shall fall by the sword, their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their pregnant women shall be ripped up." 
Hosea14:1 O ISRAEL, return to the Lord your God, for you have stumbled and fallen, [visited by calamity] due to your iniquity." 
Hosea14:2 Take with you words and return to the Lord. Say to Him, Take away all our iniquity; accept what is good and receive us graciously; so will we render [our thanks] as bullocks [to be sacrificed] and pay the confession of our lips. [Heb. 13:15.]" 
Hosea14:3 Assyria shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses, neither will we say any more to the work of our hands [idols], You are our gods. For in You [O Lord] the fatherless find love, pity, and mercy." 
Hosea14:4 I will heal their faithlessness; I will love them freely, for My anger is turned away from [Israel]." 
Hosea14:5 I will be like the dew and the night mist to Israel; he shall grow and blossom like the lily and cast forth his roots like [the sturdy evergreens of] Lebanon. 
Hosea14:6 His suckers and shoots shall spread, and his beauty shall be like the olive tree and his fragrance like [the cedars and aromatic shrubs of] Lebanon." 
Hosea14:7 They that dwell under his shade shall return; they shall revive like the grain and blossom like the vine; the scent of it shall be like the wine of Lebanon. 
Hosea14:8 Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have answered [him] and will regard and watch over him; I am like a green fir or cypress tree; with Me is the fruit found [which is to nourish you]." 
Hosea14:9 Who is wise, that he may understand these things? Prudent, that he may know them? For the ways of the Lord are right and the [uncompromisingly] just shall walk in them, but transgressors shall stumble and fall in them. [Ps. 107:43; Isa. 26:7; Jer. 9:12; Dan. 12:10.]" 
Joel1:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Joel the son of Pethuel. 
Joel1:2 Hear this, you aged men, and give ear, all you inhabitants of the land! Has such a thing as this occurred in your days or even in the days of your fathers?" 
Joel1:3 Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children another generation." 
Joel1:4 What the crawling locust left, the swarming locust has eaten; and what the swarming locust left, the hopping locust has eaten; and what the hopping locust left, the stripping locust has eaten." 
Joel1:5 Awake, you drunkards, and weep; wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the [fresh] sweet juice [of the grape], for it is cut off and removed from your mouth." 
Joel1:6 For a [heathen and hostile] nation [of locusts, illustrative of a human foe] has invaded My land, mighty and without number; its teeth are the teeth of a lion, and it has the jaw teeth of a lioness. [Rev. 9:7, 8.]" 
Joel1:7 It has laid waste My vine [symbol of God's people] and barked and broken My fig tree; it has made them completely bare and thrown them down; their branches are made white. [Isa. 5:5, 6.]" 
Joel1:8 Lament like a virgin [bride] girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth [who has died]. 
Joel1:9 The meal or cereal offering and the drink offering are cut off from the house of the Lord; the priests, the Lord's ministers, mourn." 
Joel1:10 The field is laid waste, the ground mourns; for the grain is destroyed, the new juice [of the grape] is dried up, the oil fails." 
Joel1:11 Be ashamed, O you tillers of the soil; wail, O you vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley, because the harvest of the field has perished." 
Joel1:12 The vine is dried up and the fig tree fails; the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple or quince tree, even all the trees of the field are withered, so that joy has withered and fled away from the sons of men." 
Joel1:13 Gird yourselves and lament, you priests; wail, you ministers of the altar; come, lie all night in sackcloth, you ministers of my [Joel's] God, for the cereal or meal offering and the drink offering are withheld from the house of your God." 
Joel1:14 Sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land in the house of the Lord, your God, and cry to the Lord [in penitent pleadings]." 
Joel1:15 Alas for the day! For the day of [the judgment of] the Lord is at hand, and as a destructive tempest from the Almighty will it come. [Zeph. 1:14-18.]" 
Joel1:16 Is not the food cut off before our eyes, joy and gladness from the house of our God?" 
Joel1:17 The seed [grain] rots and shrivels under the clods, the garners are desolate and empty, the barns are in ruins because the grain has failed." 
Joel1:18 How the beasts groan! The herds of cattle are perplexed and huddle together because they have no pasture; even the flocks of sheep suffer punishment (are forsaken and made wretched). 
Joel1:19 O Lord, to You will I cry, for the fire has devoured the pastures and folds of the plain and the wilderness, and flame has burned all the trees of the field." 
Joel1:20 Even the wild beasts of the field pant and cry to You, for the water brooks are dried up and fire has consumed the pastures and folds of the wilderness and the plain." 
Joel2:1 BLOW THE trumpet in Zion; sound an alarm on My holy Mount [Zion]. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of [the judgment of] the Lord is coming; it is close at hand,[Ezek. 7:2-4; Amos 5:16-20.]" 
Joel2:1 BLOW THE trumpet in Zion; sound an alarm on My holy Mount [Zion]. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of [the judgment of] the Lord is coming; it is close at hand,[Ezek. 7:2-4; Amos 5:16-20.]" 
Joel2:2 A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and of thick mists and darkness, like the morning dawn spread upon the mountains; so there comes a [heathen, hostile] people numerous and mighty, the like of which has never been before and shall not be again even to the years of many generations." 
Joel2:3 A fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns; the land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness; yes, and none has escaped [the ravages of the devouring hordes]." 
Joel2:4 Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and like war horses and horsemen, so do they run." 
Joel2:5 Like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains they leap,like the noise of a flame of fire devouring the stubble, like a mighty people set in battle array. [Rev. 9:7, 9.]" 
Joel2:6 Before them the peoples are in anguish; all faces become pale. 
Joel2:7 They run like mighty men; they climb the wall like men of war. They march each one [straight ahead] on his ways, and they do not break their ranks." 
Joel2:8 Neither does one thrust upon another; they walk every one in his path. And they burst through and upon the weapons, yet they are not wounded and do not change their course." 
Joel2:9 They leap upon the city; they run upon the wall; they climb up on and into the houses; they enter in at the windows like a thief. 
Joel2:10 The earth quakes before them; the heavens tremble. The sun and the moon are darkened and the stars withdraw their shining. [Rev. 9:2-4; 16:14.] 
Joel2:11 And the Lord utters His voice before His army, for His host is very great, and [they are] strong and powerful who execute [God's] word. For the day of the Lord is great and very terrible, and who can endure it? [Isa. 26:20, 21; 34:1-4, 8; Rev. 6:16, 17.]" 
Joel2:12 Therefore also now, says the Lord, turn and keep on coming to Me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning [until every hindrance is removed and the broken fellowship is restored]." 
Joel2:13 Rend your hearts and not your garments and return to the Lord, your God, for He is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in loving-kindness; and He revokes His sentence of evil [when His conditions are met]." 
Joel2:14 Who knows but what He will turn, revoke your sentence [of evil], and leave a blessing behind Him [giving you the means with which to serve Him], even a cereal or meal offering and a drink offering for the Lord, your God?" 
Joel2:15 Blow the trumpet in Zion; set apart a fast [a day of restraint and humility]; call a solemn assembly. 
Joel2:16 Gather the people, sanctify the congregation; assemble the elderly people, gather the children and the nursing infants; let the bridegroom [who is legally exempt from attending] go forth from his chamber and the bride out of her closet. [None is exempt from the humiliation.]" 
Joel2:17 Let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep between the porch and the altar; and let them say, Have pity and spare Your people, O Lord, and give not Your heritage to reproach, that the [heathen] nations should rule over them or use a byword against them. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is their God?" 
Joel2:18 Then was the Lord jealous for His land and had pity on His people. 
Joel2:19 Yes, the Lord answered and said to His people, Behold, I am sending you grain and juice [of the grape] and oil, and you shall be satisfied with them; and I will no more make you a reproach among the [heathen] nations." 
Joel2:20 But I will remove far off from you the northern [destroyer's] army and will drive it into a land barren and desolate, with its front toward the eastern [Dead] Sea and with its rear toward the western [Mediterranean] Sea. And its stench shall come up [like that of a decaying mass of locusts, a symbol and forecast of the fate of the northern army in the final day of the Lord], and its foul odor shall come up, because He has done great things [the Lord will have destroyed the invaders]! [Isa. 34:1-4, 8; Jer. 25:31-35; Joel 2:11.]" 
Joel2:21 Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice, for the Lord has done great things! [Zech. 12:8-10.]" 
Joel2:22 Be not afraid, you wild beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness have sprung up and are green; the tree bears its fruit, and the fig tree and the vine yield their [full] strength." 
Joel2:23 Be glad then, you children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord, your God; for He gives you the former or early rain in just measure and in righteousness, and He causes to come down for you the rain, the former rain and the latter rain, as before." 
Joel2:24 And the [threshing] floors shall be full of grain and the vats shall overflow with juice [of the grape] and oil. 
Joel2:25 And I will restore or replace for you the years that the locust has eaten,the hopping locust, the stripping locust, and the crawling locust, My great army which I sent among you." 
Joel2:26 And you shall eat in plenty and be satisfied and praise the name of the Lord, your God, Who has dealt wondrously with you. And My people shall never be put to shame." 
Joel2:27 And you shall know, understand, and realize that I am in the midst of Israel and that I the Lord am your God and there is none else. My people shall never be put to shame." 
Joel2:28 And afterward I will pour out My Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions." 
Joel2:29 Even upon the menservants and upon the maidservants in those days will I pour out My Spirit. 
Joel2:30 And I will show signs and wonders in the heavens, and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke." 
Joel2:31 The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the great and terrible day of the Lord comes. [Isa. 13:6, 9-11; 24:21-23; Ezek. 32:7-10; Matt. 24:29, 30; Rev. 6:12-17.]" 
Joel2:32 And whoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be delivered and saved, for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said, and among the remnant [of survivors] shall be those whom the Lord calls. [Acts 2:17-21; Rom. 10:13.]" 
Joel3:1 FOR BEHOLD, in those days and at that time when I shall reverse the captivity and restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem," 
Joel3:2 I will gather all nations and will bring them down into the Valley of Jehoshaphat, and there will I deal with and execute judgment upon them for [their treatment of] My people and of My heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations and [because] they have divided My land." 
Joel3:3 And they have cast lots for My people, and have given a boy for a harlot and have sold a girl for juice [of the grape] and have drunk it." 
Joel3:4 Yes, and what are you to Me, O Tyre and Sidon and all the [five small] divisions of Philistia? Will you pay Me back for something? Even if you pay Me back, swiftly and speedily I will return your deed [of retaliation] upon your own head, [Isa. 23; Ezek. 26:1-18; Amos 1:6-10; Zeph. 2:4-7; Zech. 9:2-7.]" 
Joel3:4 Yes, and what are you to Me, O Tyre and Sidon and all the [five small] divisions of Philistia? Will you pay Me back for something? Even if you pay Me back, swiftly and speedily I will return your deed [of retaliation] upon your own head, [Isa. 23; Ezek. 26:1-18; Amos 1:6-10; Zeph. 2:4-7; Zech. 9:2-7.]" 
Joel3:5 Because you have taken My silver and My gold and have carried into your temples and palaces My precious treasures," 
Joel3:6 And have sold the children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem to the sons of the Grecians, that you may remove them far from their border." 
Joel3:7 Behold, I will stir them up out of the place to which you have sold them and will return your deed [of retaliation] upon your own head." 
Joel3:8 I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the children of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, to a nation far off, for the Lord has spoken it. [Isa. 14:2; 60:14.]" 
Joel3:9 Proclaim this among the nations: Prepare war! Stir up the mighty men! Let all the men of war draw near, let them come up." 
Joel3:10 Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, I am strong [a warrior]! [Isa. 2:4; Mic. 4:3.]" 
Joel3:11 Hasten and come, all you nations round about, and assemble yourselves; there You, O Lord, will bring down Your mighty ones (Your warriors)." 
Joel3:12 Let the nations bestir themselves and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat, for there will I sit to judge all the nations round about." 
Joel3:13 Put in the sickle, for the [vintage] harvest is ripe; come, get down and tread the grapes, for the winepress is full; the vats overflow, for the wickedness [of the peoples] is great. [Mark 4:29; Rev. 14:15, 18-20.]" 
Joel3:14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. [Zech. 14:1-9.]" 
Joel3:15 The sun and the moon are darkened and the stars withdraw their shining. 
Joel3:16 The Lord will thunder and roar from Zion and utter His voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake; but the Lord will be a refuge for His people and a stronghold to the children of Israel. [Amos 9:11-15; Mic. 4:1-3; 5:2; Zeph. 3:13-20; Zech. 6:12, 13; 12:8, 9.]" 
Joel3:16 The Lord will thunder and roar from Zion and utter His voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake; but the Lord will be a refuge for His people and a stronghold to the children of Israel. [Amos 9:11-15; Mic. 4:1-3; 5:2; Zeph. 3:13-20; Zech. 6:12, 13; 12:8, 9.]" 
Joel3:17 So shall you know, understand, and realize that I am the Lord your God, dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain. Then shall Jerusalem be holy, and strangers and foreigners [not born into the family of God] shall no more pass through it." 
Joel3:18 And in that day, the mountains shall drip with fresh juice [of the grape] and the hills shall flow with milk; and all the brooks and riverbeds of Judah shall flow with water, and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord and shall water the Valley of Shittim. [Ezek. 47:1-12; Amos 9:13; Zech. 14:8.]" 
Joel3:18 And in that day, the mountains shall drip with fresh juice [of the grape] and the hills shall flow with milk; and all the brooks and riverbeds of Judah shall flow with water, and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord and shall water the Valley of Shittim. [Ezek. 47:1-12; Amos 9:13; Zech. 14:8.]" 
Joel3:19 Egypt shall be a desolation and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness for their violence against the children of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land." 
Joel3:20 But Judah shall remain and be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation." 
Joel3:21 And I will cleanse and hold as innocent their blood and avenge it, blood which I have not cleansed, held innocent, and avenged, for the Lord dwells in Zion." 
Amos1:1 THE WORDS of Amos, who was among the herdsmen and sheep masters of Tekoa, which he saw [in divine revelation] concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. [Zech. 14:5.]" 
Amos1:2 And he said, The Lord roars out of Zion and utters His voice from Jerusalem; then the pastures of the shepherds mourn and the top of [Mount] Carmel dries up. [Isa. 42:13; Jer. 25:30; Joel 3:16.]" 
Amos1:2 And he said, The Lord roars out of Zion and utters His voice from Jerusalem; then the pastures of the shepherds mourn and the top of [Mount] Carmel dries up. [Isa. 42:13; Jer. 25:30; Joel 3:16.]" 
Amos1:3 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Damascus [the capital of Syria] and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because they have threshed Gilead [east of the Jordan River] with iron sledges. [II Kings 10:32, 33.]" 
Amos1:4 So I will send a fire [of war, conquest, and destruction] upon the house of Hazael [who killed and succeeded King Ben-hadad] which shall devour the palaces and strongholds of Ben-hadad." 
Amos1:5 I will break also the bar [of the gate] of Damascus and cut off the inhabitant from the plain of Aven or On, and him who holds the scepter from Beth-eden; and the people of Syria [conquered by the Assyrians] shall go into exile to Kir, says the Lord. [Ezek. 30:17.]" 
Amos1:6 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Gaza [a city in Philistia] and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because [as slave traders] they carried away captive the whole [Jewish] population [of defenseless Judean border villages, of which none was spared, none left behind] and delivered them up to Edom [for the slave trade]. [Joel 3:6.]" 
Amos1:6 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Gaza [a city in Philistia] and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because [as slave traders] they carried away captive the whole [Jewish] population [of defenseless Judean border villages, of which none was spared, none left behind] and delivered them up to Edom [for the slave trade]. [Joel 3:6.]" 
Amos1:7 So I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza which shall devour its strongholds. 
Amos1:8 And I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon, and I will turn My hand against Ekron; and the rest of the Philistines [in Gath and the towns dependent on these four Philistine cities] shall perish, says the Lord God. [Josh. 13:3.]" 
Amos1:9 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Tyre and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because they [as middlemen] delivered up a whole [Jewish] population to Edom and did not [seriously] remember their brotherly covenant. [I Kings 5:1, 12; 9:12, 13.]" 
Amos1:10 So I will send a fire on the wall of Tyre which shall devour its strongholds. 
Amos1:11 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Edom [descendants of Esau] and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because he pursued his brother Jacob (Israel) with the sword, corrupting his compassions and casting off all pity, and his anger tore perpetually and his wrath he kept and heeded forever." 
Amos1:12 So I will send a fire upon Teman which shall devour the strongholds of Bozrah [in Edom]. 
Amos1:13 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of the children of Ammon [descendants of Lot] and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because [the Ammonites] have ripped up women with child in Gilead, that they might enlarge their border." 
Amos1:14 So I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah [in Ammon] and it shall devour the strongholds of it, with shouting in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind;" 
Amos1:15 And their king shall go into exile, he and his princes together, says the Lord." 
Amos2:1 THUS SAYS the Lord: For three transgressions of Moab [descendants of Lot] and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because he burned the bones of the king of Edom [Esau's descendant] into lime." 
Amos2:2 So I will send a fire upon Moab and it shall devour the strongholds of Kerioth, and Moab shall die amid uproar, shouting, and the sound of the trumpet." 
Amos2:3 And I will cut off the ruler from its midst and will slay all its princes with him, says the Lord." 
Amos2:4 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Judah and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because they have despised and rejected the law of the Lord and have not kept His commandments, but their lies, after which their fathers have walked, caused them to err and go astray." 
Amos2:5 So I will send a fire upon Judah and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem. 
Amos2:6 Thus says the Lord: For three transgressions of Israel and for four [for multiplied delinquencies], I will not reverse the punishment of it or revoke My word concerning it, because they have sold the [strictly] just and uncompromisingly righteous for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals;" 
Amos2:7 They pant after [the sight of] the poor [reduced to such misery that they will be throwing] dust of the earth on their heads [in token of their grief]; they defraud and turn aside the humble [who are too meek to defend themselves]; and a man and his father will have sexual relations with the same maiden, so that My holy name is profaned." 
Amos2:8 And they lay themselves down beside every [pagan] altar upon clothes they have taken in pledge [for indebtedness], and in the house of their God [in daring contempt of Him] they frivolously drink the wine which has been exacted from those [unjustly] fined." 
Amos2:9 Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above and his roots from beneath." 
Amos2:10 Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness to possess the land of the Amorite. 
Amos2:11 And I raised up some of your sons for prophets and some of your young men for dedicated ones [Nazirites]. Is this not true, O you children of Israel? says the Lord. [Num. 6:1-8.]" 
Amos2:12 But you gave the dedicated ones [the Nazirites] wine to drink and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not." 
Amos2:13 Behold, I am pressed under you and I will press you down in your place as a cart presses that is full of sheaves." 
Amos2:14 And flight shall be lost to the swift and refuge shall fail him; the strong shall not retain and confirm his strength, neither shall the mighty deliver himself." 
Amos2:15 Neither shall he stand who handles the bow, and he who is swift of foot shall not deliver himself; neither shall he who rides the horse deliver his life." 
Amos2:16 And he who is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked on that day, says the Lord." 
Amos3:1 HEAR THIS word that the Lord has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the land of Egypt:" 
Amos3:2 You only have I known (chosen, sympathized with, and loved) of all the families of the earth; therefore I will visit upon you all your wickedness and punish you for all your iniquities." 
Amos3:3 Do two walk together except they make an appointment and have agreed? 
Amos3:4 Will a lion roar in the forest when he has no prey? Will a young lion cry out of his den if he has taken nothing? 
Amos3:5 Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth where there is no trap for him? Does a trap spring up from the ground when nothing at all has sprung it? 
Amos3:6 Shall a trumpet be blown in the city and the people not be alarmed and afraid? Shall misfortune or evil occur [as punishment] and the Lord has not caused it? 
Amos3:7 Surely the Lord God will do nothing without revealing His secret to His servants the prophets. [Rev. 10:7.] 
Amos3:8 The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken; who can but prophesy? [Acts 4:20; 5:20, 29; I Cor. 9:16.]" 
Amos3:9 Publish to the strongholds in Ashdod [Philistia] and to the strongholds in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold what great tumults (confusion and disorder) are in her and what oppressions are in the midst of her." 
Amos3:10 For they know not how to do right, says the Lord, they who store up violence and robbery in their strongholds." 
Amos3:11 Therefore thus says the Lord God: An adversary shall surround the land, and he shall bring down your defenses from you and your strongholds shall be plundered." 
Amos3:12 Thus says the Lord: As the shepherd rescues out of the mouth of the lion two legs or a piece of an ear [of a sheep], so shall the children of Israel who dwell in Samaria be rescued with the corner of a couch and [part of] the damask covering of a bed." 
Amos3:13 Hear and bear witness in the house of Jacob, says the Lord God, the God of hosts," 
Amos3:14 That in the day when I visit Israel's transgressions upon him I will also visit [with punishment] the altars of Bethel [with its golden calf], and the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground." 
Amos3:15 And I will smite the winter house with the summer house, and the houses of ivory shall perish and the many and great houses shall come to an end, says the Lord." 
Amos4:1 HEAR THIS word, you cows [women] of Bashan who are in the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who say to their husbands, Bring and let us drink! [Ps. 22:12; Ezek. 39:18.]" 
Amos4:2 The Lord God has sworn by His holiness that behold, the days shall come upon you when they shall take you away with hooks and the last of you with fishhooks. [Ps. 89:35.]" 
Amos4:3 And you shall go out through the breaches [made in the city's wall], every [woman] straight before her, and you shall be cast forth into Harmon [an unknown place of exile], says the Lord." 
Amos4:4 Come to Bethel [where the golden calf is] and transgress; at Gilgal [another idol worship center] multiply transgression; and bring your sacrifices every morning and your tithes every three days. 
Amos4:5 And offer [by burning] a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim and publish freewill offerings, for this you like to do, O children of Israel! says the Lord God." 
Amos4:6 I also gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities and want of bread in all your places; yet you did not return to Me, says the Lord." 
Amos4:7 And also I withheld the rain from you when there were yet three months to the harvest. I caused it to rain upon one city and caused it not to rain upon another city; one piece of ground was rained upon, and the piece upon which it did not rain withered." 
Amos4:8 So [the people of] two or three cities wandered and staggered into one city to drink water, but they were not satisfied; yet you did not return to Me, says the Lord." 
Amos4:9 I smote you with blight [from the poisonous east wind] and with mildew; I laid waste the multitude of your gardens and your vineyards; your fig trees and your olive trees the palmerworm [a form of locust] devoured; yet you did not return to Me, says the Lord." 
Amos4:10 I have sent among you the pestilence [which I made] epidemic in Egypt; your young men I slew with the sword and I took into exile your horses, and I made the stench of your camp come up into your nostrils; yet you did not return to Me, says the Lord. [II Kings 8:12; 13:3, 7.]" 
Amos4:11 I have overthrown some among you as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were as a brand plucked out of the burning; yet you did not return to Me, says the Lord. [Gen. 19:24, 25; Isa. 13:19; Jer. 49:18.]" 
Amos4:12 Therefore thus will I do to you, O Israel; and because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel!" 
Amos4:13 For behold, He Who forms the mountains and creates the wind and declares to man what is his thought, Who makes the morning darkness and treads on the heights of the earth,the Lord, the God of hosts, is His name! [Ps. 139:2; Dan. 2:28.]" 
Amos5:1 HEAR THIS word which I take up concerning you in lamentation, O house of Israel:" 
Amos5:2 The Virgin of Israel has fallen; she shall no more rise; she lies cast down and forsaken on her land; there is no one to raise her up. 
Amos5:3 For thus says the Lord God: The city that went forth a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went forth a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel." 
Amos5:4 For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: Seek Me [inquire for and of Me and require Me as you require food] and you shall live! [II Chron. 15:2; Jer. 29:13.] 
Amos5:5 But seek not [the golden calf at] Bethel nor enter into [idolatrous] Gilgal, and pass not over to [the idols of] Beersheba; for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity and exile, and Bethel [house of God] shall become Beth-aven [house of vanity, emptiness, falsity, and futility] and come to nothing." 
Amos5:6 Seek the Lord [inquire for and of Him and require Him] and you shall live, lest He rush down like fire upon the house of Joseph [representing the ten tribes] and devour it, and there be none to quench it in Bethel [the center of their idol hopes]." 
Amos5:7 You who turn justice into [the bitterness of] wormwood and cast righteousness (uprightness and right standing with God) down to the ground," 
Amos5:8 Seek Him Who made the [cluster of stars called] Pleiades and [the constellation] Orion, Who turns the shadow of death or deep darkness into the morning and darkens the day into night, Who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the face of the earth,the Lord is His name," 
Amos5:9 Who causes sudden destruction to flash forth upon the strong so that destruction comes upon the fortress. 
Amos5:10 They hate him who reproves in the [city] gate [holding him as an abomination and rejecting his rebuke], and they abhor him who speaks uprightly." 
Amos5:11 Therefore because you tread upon the poor and take from him exactions of wheat, you have built houses of hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them; you have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine." 
Amos5:12 For I know how manifold are your transgressions and how mighty are your sins,you who afflict the [uncompromisingly] righteous, who take a bribe, and who turn aside the needy in the [court of the city] gate from their right." 
Amos5:13 Therefore he who is prudent will keep silence in such a time, for it is an evil time." 
Amos5:14 Seek (inquire for and require) good and not evil that you may live, and so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said." 
Amos5:15 Hate the evil and love the good and establish justice in the [court of the city's] gate. It may be that the Lord, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph [the northern kingdom]." 
Amos5:16 Therefore thus says the Lord, the God of hosts, the Lord: There shall be wailing in all the broad ways, and in all the streets they shall say, Alas! Alas! And they shall call the farmers to mourning and such as are skilled in lamentation to wailing." 
Amos5:17 And in all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through the midst of you, says the Lord." 
Amos5:18 Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord! Why would you want the day of the Lord? It is darkness and not light; 
Amos5:19 It is as if a man fled from a lion and a bear met him, or went into the house and leaned with his hand against the wall and a serpent bit him." 
Amos5:20 Shall not the day of the Lord be darkness, not light? Even very dark with no brightness in it?" 
Amos5:21 I hate, I despise your feasts, and I will not smell a savor or take delight in your solemn assemblies." 
Amos5:22 Though you offer Me your burnt offerings and your cereal offerings, I will not accept them, neither will I look upon the peace or thank offerings of your fatted beasts." 
Amos5:23 Take away from Me the noise of your songs, for I will not listen to the melody of your harps." 
Amos5:24 But let justice run down like waters and righteousness as a mighty and ever-flowing stream. 
Amos5:25 Did you bring to Me sacrifices and cereal offerings during those forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?" 
Amos5:26 [No] but [instead of bringing Me the appointed sacrifices] you carried about the tent of your king Sakkuth and Kaiwan [names for the gods of the planet Saturn], your images of your star-god which you made for yourselves [and you will do so again]." 
Amos5:27 Therefore I will cause you to go into exile beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. [Acts 7:42, 43.]" 
Amos6:1 WOE TO those who are at ease in Zion and to those on the mountain of Samaria who are careless and feel secure, the notable men of the chief [because chosen by God] of the nations, to whom the house of Israel comes! [Luke 6:24, 25.]" 
Amos6:2 Pass over to Calneh and see, and from there go to Hamath the great [city, north of Damascus]; then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are they better than these [your] kingdoms? Or are their boundaries greater than your boundaries," 
Amos6:3 O you who put far away the evil day [of punishment], yet cause the sitting of violence [upon you] to come near?" 
Amos6:4 Woe to those who lie upon beds of ivory and stretch themselves upon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock and the calves out of the midst of the stall," 
Amos6:5 Who sing idle songs to the sound of the harp and invent for themselves instruments of music like David's, [I Chron. 23:5.]" 
Amos6:6 Who drink wine in bowls and anoint themselves with the finest oils, but are not grieved and sick at heart over the affliction and ruin of Joseph (Israel)! [Gen. 49:22, 23.]" 
Amos6:7 Therefore now shall they go captive with the first who go into exile, and the revelry and banqueting of those who stretch themselves shall be ended." 
Amos6:8 The Lord God has sworn by Himself,the Lord, the God of hosts, says: I abhor, reject, and despise the pride and false, futile glory of Jacob (Israel), and I hate his palaces and strongholds; and I will deliver up the city [idol-worshiping Samaria] with all that is in it." 
Amos6:9 And it shall come to pass that if there remain ten men in one house, they shall die [by the pestilence that comes with war]." 
Amos6:10 And then a man's uncle or kinsman, he who is to make a burning to cremate and dispose [of his pestilence-infected body], comes in to bring the bones out of the house, and he shall say to another still alive in the farthest parts of the house, Is there anyone else with you? and he shall say, No. Then shall the newcomer say, Hush! Hold your [cursing] tongue! We dare not so mention the name of the Lord [lest we invoke more punishment]. [I Sam. 31:12.]" 
Amos6:11 For behold, the Lord commands and He will smite the great house into ruins and the little house into fragments." 
Amos6:12 Do horses run upon rocks? Do men plow the ocean with oxen? But you have turned justice into [the poison of] gall and the fruit of righteousness into [the bitterness of] wormwood, 
Amos6:13 You who rejoice in Lo-debar [a thing of nought], who say, Have we not by our own strength taken Karnaim or horns [of resistance] for ourselves?" 
Amos6:14 For behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, says the Lord, the God of hosts; and they shall afflict and oppress you [to the entire limits of Israel] from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of the Arabah." 
Amos7:1 THUS THE Lord God showed me [Amos], and behold, He formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the second crop, and behold, it was the second crop after the king's mowings." 
Amos7:2 And when [the locusts] had finished eating the plants of the land, then I said, O Lord God, forgive, I pray You. How can Jacob stand? For he is so small!" 
Amos7:3 The Lord relented and revoked this sentence: It shall not take place, said the Lord [and He was eased and comforted concerning it]." 
Amos7:4 Thus the Lord God showed me, and behold, the Lord God called for punishment with fire, and it devoured the great deep and would have eaten up the land." 
Amos7:5 Then said I, O Lord God, cease, I pray You! How can Jacob stand? He is so little!" 
Amos7:6 The Lord relented and revoked this sentence: This also shall not be, said the Lord [and He was eased and comforted concerning it]." 
Amos7:7 Thus He showed me, and behold, the Lord stood upon a wall with a plumb line, with a plumb line in His hand. [II Kings 21:13; Isa. 34:11.]" 
Amos7:8 And the Lord said to me, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A plumb line. Then said the Lord, Behold, I am setting a plumb line as a standard in the midst of My people Israel. I will not pass by and spare them any more [the door of mercy is shut]." 
Amos7:9 And the [idolatrous] high places of Isaac (Israel) shall be desolate and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste, and I will rise with the sword against the house of King Jeroboam [who set up the golden calf shrines]." 
Amos7:10 Then Amaziah the priest of [the golden calf shrine at] Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel; the land is not able to bear all his words. [I Kings 12:31, 32.]" 
Amos7:11 For thus Amos has said, Jeroboam shall die by the sword and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land." 
Amos7:12 Also Amaziah said to Amos, O you seer, go! Flee back to the land of Judah [your own country], and eat your bread and live out your profession as a prophet there [as I perform my duties here]." 
Amos7:13 But do not prophesy any more at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary and a seat of his kingdom. [Luke 10:10-12.]" 
Amos7:14 Then Amos said to Amaziah, I was no prophet [by profession]! Neither was I a prophet's son; [but I had my occupation] I was a herdsman and a dresser of sycamore trees and a gatherer of sycamore figs." 
Amos7:15 And the Lord took me as I followed the flock and the Lord said to me, Go, prophesy to My people Israel." 
Amos7:16 Now therefore listen to the word of the Lord: You say, Do not prophesy against Israel and drop no statements not complimentary to the house of Isaac." 
Amos7:17 Therefore thus says the Lord: Your wife shall be a harlot in the city and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided up by line; you yourself shall die in an unclean and defiled land, and Israel shall surely go forth out of his land into exile." 
Amos8:1 THUS THE Lord God showed to me, and behold, a basket of [ripe and therefore soon to perish] summer fruit." 
Amos8:2 And He said, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then said the Lord to me, The end has come upon My people Israel; I will not pass by and spare them any more." 
Amos8:3 And the songs of the temple shall become wailings in that day, says the Lord God. The dead bodies shall be many; in every place they shall be cast forth in silence." 
Amos8:4 Hear this, O you who would swallow up and trample down the needy, even to make the poor of the land to fail and come to an end," 
Amos8:5 Saying, When will the New Moon festival be past that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath that we may offer wheat for sale, making the ephah [measure] small and the shekel [measure] great and falsifying the scales by deceit," 
Amos8:6 That we may buy [into slavery] the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals; yes, and sell the refuse of the wheat [as if it were good grade]?" 
Amos8:7 The Lord has sworn by [Himself Who is] the Glory and Pride of Jacob, Surely I will never forget any of their [rebellious] deeds." 
Amos8:8 Shall not the land tremble on this account, and everyone mourn who dwells in it? Yes, it shall rise like the river [Nile], all of it, and it shall be tossed about and sink back again to normal level, as does the Nile of Egypt." 
Amos8:9 And in that day, says the Lord God, I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the broad daylight. [Ezek. 32:7-10.]" 
Amos8:10 And I will turn your feasts into mourning and all your songs into lamentation, and I will cause sackcloth to be put upon all loins and baldness [for mourning] shall come on every head; and I will make that time as the mourning for an only son, and the end of it as a bitter day." 
Amos8:11 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord God, when I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but [a famine] for hearing the words of the Lord." 
Amos8:12 And [the people] shall wander from sea to sea and from the north even to the east; they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord [inquiring for and requiring it as one requires food], but shall not find it." 
Amos8:13 In that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for thirst. 
Amos8:14 Those who swear by Ashimah or the sin of Samaria and say, By the life of your god [the golden calf], O Dan! and [swear], By the life of the way of [idolatrous] Beersheba, they shall fall and rise no more." 
Amos9:1 I SAW the Lord standing at the altar, and He said, Smite the tops of the pillars until the thresholds tremble, and shatter them on the heads of all of the people; and the remainder of them I will slay with the sword. He who flees of them shall not get away, and he who escapes of them shall not be delivered." 
Amos9:2 Though they dig into Sheol (Hades, the dark abode of the gathered dead), from there shall My hand take them; though they climb up to heaven [the abode of light], from there will I bring them down;" 
Amos9:3 And though they hide themselves on the top of [Mount] Carmel, from there I will search out and take them; and though they [try to] hide from My sight at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent and it shall bite them." 
Amos9:4 And though they go into captivity before their enemies, there will I command the sword and it shall slay them, and I will set My eyes upon them for evil and not for good." 
Amos9:5 The Lord God of hosts, it is He Who touches the earth and it melts, and all who dwell in it mourn; it shall rise like the [river] Nile, all of it, and it shall sink again like the Nile of Egypt." 
Amos9:6 It is He Who builds His upper chambers in the heavens and Who founds His vault over the earth, Who calls to the waters of the sea and pours them out on the face of the earth,The Lord is His name." 
Amos9:7 You [O degenerate children of Israel] are no more to Me than these [despised] Cushites, says the Lord. I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt, but have I not [also] brought the Philistines out of Caphtor and the Syrians from Kir?" 
Amos9:8 Behold, the eyes of the Lord God are upon the sinful kingdom [of Israel's ten tribes] and I will destroy it from the surface of the ground, except that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, says the Lord." 
Amos9:9 For behold, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all nations and cause it to move to and fro as grain is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least kernel fall upon the earth and be lost [from My sight]. [Lev. 26:33; Deut. 28:64; Hos. 9:17.]" 
Amos9:10 All the sinners of My people shall die by the sword, who say, The evil shall not overtake or meet [and assail] us." 
Amos9:11 In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David, the fallen hut or booth, and close up its breaches; and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old," 
Amos9:12 That they may possess the remnant of Edom and of all the nations that are called by My name, says the Lord Who does this. [Acts 15:15-17.]" 
Amos9:13 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him who sows the seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine and all the hills shall melt [that is, everything heretofore barren and unfruitful shall overflow with spiritual blessing]. [Lev. 26:5; Joel 3:18.]" 
Amos9:13 Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him who sows the seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine and all the hills shall melt [that is, everything heretofore barren and unfruitful shall overflow with spiritual blessing]. [Lev. 26:5; Joel 3:18.]" 
Amos9:14 And I will bring back the exiles of My people Israel, and they shall build the waste cities and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards and drink the wine from them; they shall also make gardens and eat the fruit of them." 
Amos9:15 And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be torn up out of their land which I gave them, says the Lord your God." 
Obadiah1:1 THE VISION of Obadiah. Thus says the Lord God concerning Edom: We have heard tidings from the Lord, and an ambassador is sent forth among the nations [saying], Arise, and let us rise up against [Edom] for battle! [Ps. 137:7; Isa. 34:1-15; 63:1-6; Jer. 49:7-22; Ezek. 25:8-14.]" 
Obadiah1:2 Behold, I will make you small among the nations [Edom]; you shall be despised exceedingly. [Ezek. 35.]" 
Obadiah1:3 The pride of your heart has deceived you, you dweller in the refuges of the rock [Petra, Edom's capital], whose habitation is high, who says in his heart, Who can bring me down to the ground?" 
Obadiah1:4 Though you mount on high as the eagle and though you set your nest among the stars, I will bring you down from there, says the Lord." 
Obadiah1:5 If thieves came to you, if robbers by night,how you are brought to nothing!,would they not steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave some grapes for gleaning? [But this ravaging was done by God, not men.] [Jer. 49:9.]" 
Obadiah1:6 How are the things of Esau [Edom] searched out! How are his hidden treasures sought out! 
Obadiah1:7 All the men of your confederacy (your allies) have brought you on your way, even to the border; the men who were at peace with you have deceived you and prevailed against you; they who eat your bread have laid a snare under you. There is no understanding [in Edom, or] of it." 
Obadiah1:8 Will not I in that day, says the Lord, destroy the wise men out of Edom and [men of] understanding out of Mount Esau [Idumea, a mountainous region]?" 
Obadiah1:9 And your mighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, to the end that everyone from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter." 
Obadiah1:10 For the violence you did against your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever." 
Obadiah1:11 On the day that you stood aloof [from your brother Jacob],on the day that strangers took captive his forces and carried off his wealth, and foreigners entered into his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem,you were even as one of them. [Num. 20:18-20; Amos 1:11, 12.]" 
Obadiah1:11 On the day that you stood aloof [from your brother Jacob],on the day that strangers took captive his forces and carried off his wealth, and foreigners entered into his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem,you were even as one of them. [Num. 20:18-20; Amos 1:11, 12.]" 
Obadiah1:12 But you should not have gloated over your brother's day, the day when his misfortune came and he was made a stranger; you should not have rejoiced over the sons of Judah in the day of their ruin; you should not have spoken arrogantly in the day of their distress." 
Obadiah1:13 You should not have entered the gate of My people in the day of their calamity and ruin; yes, you should not have looked [with delight] on their misery in the day of their calamity and ruin, and not have reached after their army and their possessions in the day of their calamity and ruin." 
Obadiah1:14 And you should not have stood at the crossway to cut off those of Judah who escaped, neither should you have delivered up those [of Judah] who remained in the day of distress." 
Obadiah1:15 For the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you; your dealings will return upon your own head. [Isa. 2:10-22; Zeph. 3:8-20; Zech. 12:1-14; Rev. 19:11-21.]" 
Obadiah1:16 For as you [Edom] have drunk upon the mountain of My holiness [desecrating it in the wild revelry of the destroyers], so shall all the nations drink continually [in turn, of My wrath]; yes, they shall drink, talk foolishly, and swallow down [the full measure of punishment] and they shall be [destroyed] as though they had not been. [Rev. 16:14-16.]" 
Obadiah1:17 But on Mount Zion [in Jerusalem] there shall be deliverance [for those who escape], and it shall be holy; and the house of Jacob shall possess its [own former] possessions. [Ezek. 36; Joel 2:32.]" 
Obadiah1:17 But on Mount Zion [in Jerusalem] there shall be deliverance [for those who escape], and it shall be holy; and the house of Jacob shall possess its [own former] possessions. [Ezek. 36; Joel 2:32.]" 
Obadiah1:18 The house of Jacob shall be a fire and the house of Joseph a flame, but the house of Esau shall be stubble; they shall kindle and burn them and consume them, and there shall be no survivor of the house of Esau, for the Lord has spoken it. [Ezek. 25:12-14.]" 
Obadiah1:19 They of the South (the Negeb) shall possess Mount Esau, and they of the lowland the land of the Philistines; they shall possess the land of Ephraim and the fields of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead [across the Jordan River]. [Amos 9:12; Zeph. 2:7.]" 
Obadiah1:19 They of the South (the Negeb) shall possess Mount Esau, and they of the lowland the land of the Philistines; they shall possess the land of Ephraim and the fields of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead [across the Jordan River]. [Amos 9:12; Zeph. 2:7.]" 
Obadiah1:20 And the exiles of this host of the children of Israel who are among the Canaanites shall possess [Phoenicia] as far as Zarephath, and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad shall possess the cities of the South (the Negeb)." 
Obadiah1:21 And deliverers shall go up on Mount Zion to rule and judge Mount Esau, and the kingdom and the kingship shall be the Lord's. [Zech. 12:8, 9; Mal. 1:2-5; Matt. 24:27-30; Luke 1:31-33; Acts 15:14-17.]" 
Jonah1:1 NOW THE word of the Lord came to Jonah son of Amittai, saying," 
Jonah1:2 Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and proclaim against it, for their wickedness has come up before Me. [Gen. 10:11, 12.]" 
Jonah1:3 But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from being in the presence of the Lord [as His prophet] and went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish [the most remote of the Phoenician trading places then known]. So he paid the appointed fare and went down into the ship to go with them to Tarshish from being in the presence of the Lord [as His servant and minister]. [Gen. 4:16; Job 1:12; 2:7.] 
Jonah1:3 But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from being in the presence of the Lord [as His prophet] and went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish [the most remote of the Phoenician trading places then known]. So he paid the appointed fare and went down into the ship to go with them to Tarshish from being in the presence of the Lord [as His servant and minister]. [Gen. 4:16; Job 1:12; 2:7.] 
Jonah1:4 But the Lord sent out a great wind upon the sea, and there was a violent tempest on the sea so that the ship was about to be broken. [Ps. 107:23-27.]" 
Jonah1:5 Then the mariners were afraid, and each man cried to his god; and they cast the goods that were in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had lain down and was fast asleep." 
Jonah1:6 So the captain came and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call upon your God! Perhaps your God will give a thought to us so that we shall not perish." 
Jonah1:7 And they each said to one another, Come, let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. So they cast lots and the lot fell on Jonah." 
Jonah1:8 Then they said to him, Tell us, we pray you, on whose account has this evil come upon us? What is your occupation? Where did you come from? And what is your country and nationality?" 
Jonah1:9 And he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I [reverently] fear and worship the Lord, the God of heaven, Who made the sea and the dry land." 
Jonah1:10 Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he fled from being in the presence of the Lord [as His prophet and servant], because he had told them." 
Jonah1:11 Then they said to him, What shall we do to you, that the sea may subside and be calm for us? For the sea became more and more [violently] tempestuous." 
Jonah1:12 And [Jonah] said to them, Take me up and cast me into the sea; so shall the sea become calm for you, for I know that it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you." 
Jonah1:13 Nevertheless the men rowed hard to bring the ship to the land, but they could not, for the sea became more and more violent against them." 
Jonah1:14 Therefore they cried to the Lord, We beseech You, O Lord, we beseech You, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not upon us innocent blood; for You, O Lord, have done as it pleased You." 
Jonah1:15 So they took up Jonah and cast him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging." 
Jonah1:16 Then the men [reverently and worshipfully] feared the Lord exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows." 
Jonah1:17 Now the Lord had prepared and appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. [Matt. 12:40.] 
Jonah2:1 THEN JONAH prayed to the Lord his God from the fish's belly," 
Jonah2:2 And said, I cried out of my distress to the Lord, and He heard me; out of the belly of Sheol cried I, and You heard my voice. [Ps. 120:1; 130:1; 142:1; Lam. 3:55-58.]" 
Jonah2:3 For You cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the floods surrounded me; all Your waves and Your billows passed over me. [Ps. 42:7.]" 
Jonah2:4 Then I said, I have been cast out of Your presence and Your sight; yet I will look again toward Your holy temple. [Ps. 31:22.]" 
Jonah2:5 The waters compassed me about, even to [the extinction of] life; the abyss surrounded me, the seaweed was wrapped about my head. [Ps. 69:1; Lam. 3:54.]" 
Jonah2:6 I went down to the bottoms and the very roots of the mountains; the earth with its bars closed behind me forever. Yet You have brought up my life from the pit and corruption, O Lord my God." 
Jonah2:7 When my soul fainted upon me [crushing me], I earnestly and seriously remembered the Lord; and my prayer came to You, into Your holy temple." 
Jonah2:8 Those who pay regard to false, useless, and worthless idols forsake their own [Source of] mercy and loving-kindness." 
Jonah2:9 But as for me, I will sacrifice to You with the voice of thanksgiving; I will pay that which I have vowed. Salvation and deliverance belong to the Lord!" 
Jonah2:10 And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land." 
Jonah3:1 AND THE word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying," 
Jonah3:2 Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach and cry out to it the preaching that I tell you." 
Jonah3:3 So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city of three days' journey [sixty miles in circumference]. 
Jonah3:4 And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried, Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown!" 
Jonah3:5 So the people of Nineveh believed in God and proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth [in penitent mourning], from the greatest of them even to the least of them." 
Jonah3:6 For word came to the king of Nineveh [of all that had happened to Jonah, and his terrifying message from God], and he arose from his throne and he laid his robe aside, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes." 
Jonah3:7 And he made proclamation and published through Nineveh, By the decree of the king and his nobles: Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything; let them not feed nor drink water." 
Jonah3:8 But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and let them cry mightily to God. Yes, let every one turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands." 
Jonah3:9 Who can tell, God may turn and revoke His sentence against us [when we have met His terms], and turn away from His fierce anger so that we perish not. [Joel 2:13, 14.]" 
Jonah3:9 Who can tell, God may turn and revoke His sentence against us [when we have met His terms], and turn away from His fierce anger so that we perish not. [Joel 2:13, 14.]" 
Jonah3:10 And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way; and God revoked His [sentence of] evil that He had said that He would do to them and He did not do it [for He was comforted and eased concerning them]." 
Jonah4:1 BUT IT displeased Jonah exceedingly and he was very angry. 
Jonah4:2 And he prayed to the Lord and said, I pray You, O Lord, is not this just what I said when I was still in my country? That is why I fled to Tarshish, for I knew that You are a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness, and [when sinners turn to You and meet Your conditions] You revoke the [sentence of] evil against them. [Exod. 34:6.]" 
Jonah4:3 Therefore now, O Lord, I beseech You, take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live." 
Jonah4:4 Then said the Lord, Do you do well to be angry?" 
Jonah4:5 So Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city, and he made a booth there for himself. He sat there under it in the shade till he might see what would become of the city." 
Jonah4:6 And the Lord God prepared a gourd and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to deliver him from his evil situation. So Jonah was exceedingly glad [to have the protection] of the gourd." 
Jonah4:7 But God prepared a cutworm when the morning dawned the next day, and it smote the gourd so that it withered." 
Jonah4:8 And when the sun arose, God prepared a sultry east wind, and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah so that he fainted and wished in himself to die and said, It is better for me to die than to live." 
Jonah4:9 And God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the loss of the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die!" 
Jonah4:10 Then said the Lord, You have had pity on the gourd, for which you have not labored nor made it grow, which came up in a night and perished in a night." 
Jonah4:11 And should not I spare Nineveh, that great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons not [yet old enough to] know their right hand from their left, and also many cattle [not accountable for sin]?" 
Micah1:1 THE WORD of the Lord that came to Micah of Moresheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw [through divine revelation] concerning Samaria and Jerusalem." 
Micah1:2 Hear, all you people; listen closely, O earth and all that is in it, and let the Lord God be witness among you and against you, the Lord from His holy temple. [I Kings 22:28.]" 
Micah1:3 For behold, the Lord comes forth out of His place and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth. [Zech. 14:3, 4; Mal. 4:2, 3; Matt. 24:27-30; Rev. 1:7; 19:11-16.]" 
Micah1:4 And the mountains shall melt under Him and the valleys shall be cleft like wax before the fire, like waters poured down a steep place." 
Micah1:5 All this is because of the transgression of Jacob and the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not [the idol worship of] Samaria? And what are the high places [of idolatry] in Judah? Are they not Jerusalem? 
Micah1:6 Therefore I [the Lord] will make Samaria a heap in the open country, a place for planting vineyards; and I will pour down into the ravine her stones and lay bare her foundations. [II Kings 19:25; Ezek. 13:14.]" 
Micah1:7 And all her carved images shall be broken in pieces, and all her hires [all that man would gain from desertion of God] shall be burned with fire, and all her idols will be laid waste; for from the hire of [one] harlot she gathered them, and to the hire of [another] harlot they shall return." 
Micah1:8 Therefore I [Micah] will lament and wail; I will go stripped and [virtually] naked; I will make a wailing like the jackals and a lamentation like the ostriches. 
Micah1:9 For [Samaria's] wounds are incurable and they come even to Judah; He [the Lord] has reached to the gate of my people, to Jerusalem." 
Micah1:10 In Gath [a city in Philistia] announce it not; in Acco weep not at all, [betraying your grief to foreigners; but among your own people] in Beth-le-aphrah [house of dust] roll yourself in the dust." 
Micah1:11 Pass on your way [into exile], dwellers of Shaphir, in shameful nakedness. The dwellers of Zaanan dare not come forth; the wailing of Beth-ezel takes away from you the place on which it stands." 
Micah1:12 For the inhabitant of Maroth [bitterness] writhes in pain [at its losses] and waits anxiously for good, because evil comes down from the Lord to the gate of Jerusalem." 
Micah1:13 Bind the chariot to the swift steed, O lady inhabitant of Lachish; you were the beginning of sin to the Daughter of Zion, for the transgressions of Israel were found in you." 
Micah1:14 Therefore you must give parting gifts to Moresheth-gath [Micah's home town]; the houses of Achzib [place of deceit] shall be a deception to the kings of Israel. 
Micah1:15 Yet will I bring a conqueror upon you, O lady inhabitant of Mareshah, who shall possess you; the glory and nobility of Israel shall come to Adullam [to hide in the caves, as did David]. [I Sam. 22:1.]" 
Micah1:16 Make yourself bald in mourning and cut off your hair for the children of your delight; enlarge your baldness as the eagle, for [your children] shall be carried from you into exile." 
Micah2:1 WOE TO those who devise iniquity and work out evil upon their beds! When the morning is light, they perform and practice it because it is in their power." 
Micah2:2 They covet fields and seize them, and houses and take them away; they oppress and crush a man and his house, a man and his inheritance. [Isa. 5:8.]" 
Micah2:3 Therefore thus says the Lord: Behold, against this family I am planning a disaster from which you cannot remove your necks, nor will you be able to walk erect; for it will be an evil time." 
Micah2:4 In that day shall they take up a [taunting] parable against you and wail with a doleful and bitter lamentation and say, We are utterly ruined and laid waste! [God] changes the portion of my people. How He removes it from me! He divides our fields [to the rebellious, our captors]." 
Micah2:5 Therefore you shall have no one to cast a line by lot upon a plot [of ground] in the assembly of the Lord. [Rev. 21:27.] 
Micah2:6 Do not preach, say the prophesying false prophets; one should not babble and harp on such things; disgrace will not overtake us [the reviling has no end]." 
Micah2:7 O house of Jacob, shall it be said, Is the Spirit of the Lord restricted, impatient, and shortened? Or are these [prophesied plagues] His doings? Do not My words do good to him who walks uprightly?" 
Micah2:8 But lately (yesterday) My people have stood up as an enemy [and have made Me their antagonist]. Off from the garment you strip the cloak of those who pass by in secure confidence of safety and are averse to war. 
Micah2:9 The women of My people you cast out from their pleasant houses; from their young children you take away My glory forever. 
Micah2:10 Arise and depart, for this is not the rest [which was promised to the righteous in Canaan], because of uncleanness that works destruction, even a sharp and grievous destruction." 
Micah2:11 If a man walking in a spirit [of vanity] and in falsehood should lie and say, I will prophesy to you of wine and strong drink, O Israel, he would even be the acceptable prophet of this people! [Jer. 5:31.]" 
Micah2:12 I will surely gather all of you, O Jacob; I will surely collect the remnant of Israel. I will bring them [Israel] together like sheep in a fold, like a flock in the midst of their pasture. They [the fold and the pasture] shall swarm with men and hum with much noise." 
Micah2:13 The Breaker [the Messiah] will go up before them. They will break through, pass in through the gate and go out through it, and their King will pass on before them, the Lord at their head. [Exod. 23:20, 21; 33:14; Isa. 63:8, 9; Hos. 3:5; Amos 9:11.]" 
Micah2:13 The Breaker [the Messiah] will go up before them. They will break through, pass in through the gate and go out through it, and their King will pass on before them, the Lord at their head. [Exod. 23:20, 21; 33:14; Isa. 63:8, 9; Hos. 3:5; Amos 9:11.]" 
Micah3:1 AND I [Micah] said, Hear, I pray you, you heads of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel! Is it not for you to know justice?," 
Micah3:2 You who hate the good and love the evil, who pluck and steal the skin from off [My people] and their flesh from off their bones;" 
Micah3:3 Yes, you who eat the flesh of my people and strip their skin from off them, who break their bones and chop them in pieces as for the pot, like meat in a big kettle." 
Micah3:4 Then will they cry to the Lord, but He will not answer them; He will even hide His face from them at that time, because they have made their deeds evil. [Isa. 1:15.]" 
Micah3:5 Thus says the Lord: Concerning the false prophets who make My people err, when they have anything good to bite with their teeth they cry, Peace; and whoever gives them nothing to chew, against him they declare a sanctified war." 
Micah3:6 Therefore it shall be night to you, so that you shall have no vision; yes, it shall be dark to you without divination. And the sun shall go down over the false prophets, and the day shall be black over them." 
Micah3:7 And the seers shall be put to shame and the diviners shall blush and be confounded; yes, they shall all cover their lips, for there is no answer from God." 
Micah3:8 But truly I [Micah] am full of power, of the Spirit of the Lord, and of justice and might, to declare to Jacob his transgression and to Israel his sin." 
Micah3:9 Hear this, I pray you, you heads of the house of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel, who abhor and reject justice and pervert all equity," 
Micah3:10 Who build up Zion with blood and Jerusalem with iniquity. 
Micah3:11 Its heads judge for reward and a bribe and its priests teach for hire and its prophets divine for money; yet they lean on the Lord and say, Is not the Lord among us? No evil can come upon us. [Isa. 1:10-15.]" 
Micah3:12 Therefore shall Zion on your account be plowed like a field, Jerusalem shall become heaps [of ruins], and the mountain of the house [of the Lord] like a densely wooded height. [Jer. 26:17-19.]" 
Micah4:1 BUT IN the latter days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains; and it shall be exalted above the hills, and peoples shall flow to it." 
Micah4:2 And many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that He may teach us His ways, and we may walk in His paths. For the law shall go forth out of Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 
Micah4:3 And He shall judge between many peoples and shall decide for strong nations afar off, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. [Isa. 2:2-4; Joel 3:10.]" 
Micah4:3 And He shall judge between many peoples and shall decide for strong nations afar off, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. [Isa. 2:2-4; Joel 3:10.]" 
Micah4:4 But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and none shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken it. [Zech. 3:10.]" 
Micah4:5 For all the peoples [now] walk every man in the name of his god, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever and ever." 
Micah4:6 In that day, says the Lord, I will assemble the lame, and I will gather those who have been driven away and those whom I have afflicted." 
Micah4:7 And I will make the lame a remnant, and those who were cast off a strong nation; and the Lord shall reign over them in Mount Zion from this time forth and forever." 
Micah4:8 And you, O tower of the flock, the hill and stronghold of the Daughter of Zion, unto you the former dominion shall come, the kingdom of the Daughter of Jerusalem." 
Micah4:9 Now why do you cry aloud? Is there no king among you? Has your counselor perished, that pains have taken you like a woman in labor?" 
Micah4:10 Writhe in pain and labor to bring forth, O Daughter of Zion, like a woman in childbirth; for now you shall go forth out of the city and you shall live in the open country. You shall go to Babylon; there you shall be rescued. There the Lord shall redeem you from the hand of your enemies." 
Micah4:11 Now many nations are assembled against you, saying, Let her be profaned and let our eyes gaze upon Zion." 
Micah4:12 But they know not the thoughts of the Lord, neither do they understand His plan, for He shall gather them as the sheaves to the threshing floor." 
Micah4:13 Arise and thresh, O Daughter of Zion! For I will make your horn iron and I will make your hoofs bronze; you shall beat in pieces many peoples, and I will devote their gain to the Lord and their treasure to the Lord of all the earth. [Zech. 12:1-8; 14:14.]" 
Micah5:1 NOW GATHER yourself in troops, O daughter of troops; a state of siege has been placed against us. They shall smite the ruler of Israel with a rod (a scepter) on the cheek." 
Micah5:2 But you, Bethlehem Ephratah, you are little to be among the clans of Judah; [yet] out of you shall One come forth for Me Who is to be Ruler in Israel, Whose goings forth have been from of old, from ancient days (eternity). [Gen. 49:10; Matt. 2:5-12; John 7:42.]" 
Micah5:3 Therefore shall He give them up until the time that she who travails has brought forth; then what is left of His brethren shall return to the children of Israel. 
Micah5:4 And He shall stand and feed His flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord His God; and they shall dwell [secure], for then shall He be great [even] to the ends of the earth. [Ps. 72:8; Isa. 40:11; Zech. 9:10; Luke 1:32, 33.]" 
Micah5:5 And this [One] shall be our peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads upon our soil and in our palaces, then will we raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes among men. [Isa. 9:6; Eph. 2:14.]" 
Micah5:6 And they shall rule and waste the land of Assyria with the sword and the land of Nimrod within her [Assyria's own] gates. Thus shall He [the Messiah] deliver us from the Assyrian [representing the opposing powers] when he comes into our land and when he treads on our borders. 
Micah5:7 Then the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples like dew from the Lord, like showers upon the grass which [come suddenly and] tarry not for man nor wait for the sons of men. [Ps. 72:6; 110:3.]" 
Micah5:8 And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations in the midst of many peoples like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion [suddenly appearing] among the flocks of sheep which, when it goes through, treads down and tears in pieces, and there is no deliverer." 
Micah5:9 Your hand will be lifted up above your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off." 
Micah5:10 And in that day, says the Lord, I will cut off your horses [on which you depend] from among you and will destroy your chariots. [Ps. 20:7, 8; Zech. 9:10.]" 
Micah5:11 And I will cut off the cities of your land and throw down all your strongholds. 
Micah5:12 And I will cut off witchcrafts and sorceries from your hand, and you shall have no more soothsayers." 
Micah5:13 Your carved images also I will cut off and your statues or pillars out of your midst, and you shall no more worship the work of your hands." 
Micah5:14 And I will root out your Asherim [symbols of the goddess Asherah] and I will destroy your cities [the seats of false worship]. [Deut. 16:21.] 
Micah5:15 And in anger and wrath I will execute vengeance upon the nations which would not obey [vengeance such as they have not heard of before]. 
Micah6:1 HEAR NOW what the Lord says: Arise, contend and plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice." 
Micah6:2 Hear, O mountains, the Lord's controversy, and you strong and enduring foundations of the earth, for the Lord has a controversy (a pleading contention) with His people, and He will [pleadingly] contend with Israel." 
Micah6:3 O My people, what have I done to you? And in what have I wearied you? Testify against Me [answer Me]!" 
Micah6:4 For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you out of the house where you were bond servants, and I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam." 
Micah6:5 O My people, [earnestly] remember now what Balak king of Moab devised and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; [remember what the Lord did for you] from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may know the righteous and saving acts of the Lord. [Num. 23:7-24; 24:3-24; Josh. 3:1; 4:19.]" 
Micah6:6 With what shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?" 
Micah6:7 Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?" 
Micah6:8 He has showed you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, and to love kindness and mercy, and to humble yourself and walk humbly with your God? [Deut. 10:12, 13.]" 
Micah6:9 The voice of the Lord calls to the city [Jerusalem],and it is sound wisdom to hear and fear Your name,Hear (heed) the rod and Him Who has appointed it. 
Micah6:10 Are there not still treasures gained by wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a scant measure [a false measure for grain] that is abominable and accursed?" 
Micah6:11 Can I be pure [Myself, and acquit the man] with wicked scales and with a bag of deceitful weights? [I Thess. 4:6.]" 
Micah6:12 For [the city's] rich men are full of violence; her inhabitants have spoken lies and their tongues are deceitful in their mouths. 
Micah6:13 Therefore I have also smitten you with a deadly wound and made you sick, laying you desolate, waste, and deserted because of your sins." 
Micah6:14 You shall eat but not be satisfied, and your emptiness and hunger shall remain in you; you shall carry away [goods and those you love] but fail to save them, and those you do deliver I will give to the sword." 
Micah6:15 You shall sow but not reap; you shall tread olives but not anoint yourselves with oil, and [you shall extract juice from] the grapes but not drink the wine." 
Micah6:16 For the statutes of [idolatrous] Omri you have kept, and all the works of the house of [wicked] Ahab, and you walk in their counsels. Therefore I will make you a desolation and an astonishment and your [city's] inhabitants a hissing, and you shall bear the reproach and scorn of My people." 
Micah7:1 WOE IS me! For I am as when the summer fruits have been gathered, as when the vintage grapes have been gleaned and there is no cluster to eat, no first-ripe fig for which my appetite craves." 
Micah7:2 The godly man has perished from the earth, and there is none upright among men. They all lie in wait for blood; each hunts his brother with a net." 
Micah7:3 Both their hands are put forth and are upon what is evil to do it diligently; the prince and the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man utters his evil desire. Thus they twist between them [the course of justice]." 
Micah7:4 The best of them is like a brier; the most upright or the straightest is like a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, even of [God's] judgment and your punishment, has come; now shall be their perplexity and confusion." 
Micah7:5 Trust not in a neighbor; put no confidence in a friend. Keep the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your bosom. [Luke 12:51-53.] 
Micah7:6 For the son dishonors the father, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law,a man's enemies are the men (members) of his own house. [Matt. 10:21, 35, 36; Mark 13:12, 13.]" 
Micah7:7 But as for me, I will look to the Lord and confident in Him I will keep watch; I will wait with hope and expectancy for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me." 
Micah7:8 Rejoice not against me, O my enemy! When I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, the Lord shall be a light to me." 
Micah7:9 I will bear the indignation of the Lord because I have sinned against Him, until He pleads my cause and executes judgment for me. He will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold His righteous deliverance. [Rom. 10:1-4; 11:23-27.]" 
Micah7:10 Then my enemy will see it, and shame will cover her who said to me, Where is the Lord your God? My eyes will see my desire upon her; now she will be trodden down as the mire of the streets." 
Micah7:11 In the day that your walls are to be built [a day for building], in that day shall the boundary [of Israel] be far extended and the decree [against her] be far removed. [Isa. 33:17; Amos 9:11.]" 
Micah7:11 In the day that your walls are to be built [a day for building], in that day shall the boundary [of Israel] be far extended and the decree [against her] be far removed. [Isa. 33:17; Amos 9:11.]" 
Micah7:12 In that day they will come to you from Assyria and from the cities of Matzor [Egypt] and from Egypt even to the river [Euphrates], from sea to sea and from mountain to mountain." 
Micah7:13 Yet shall the earth be desolate because of those who dwell in it, for the fruit of their doings." 
Micah7:14 Rule and feed Your people with Your rod and scepter, the flock of Your inheritance who dwell alone in a forest in the midst of Carmel [a garden land]; they shall feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old." 
Micah7:15 As in the days of your coming forth from the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things." 
Micah7:16 The nations shall see [God's deliverance] and be ashamed of all their might [which cannot be compared to His]. They shall lay their hands upon their mouths in consternation; their ears shall be deaf. 
Micah7:17 They shall lick the dust like a serpent; like crawling things of the earth they shall come trembling out of their strongholds and close places. They shall turn and come with fear and dread to the Lord our God and shall be afraid and stand in awe because of You [O Lord]. [Jer. 33:9.] 
Micah7:18 Who is a God like You, Who forgives iniquity and passes over the transgression of the remnant of His heritage? He retains not His anger forever, because He delights in mercy and loving-kindness." 
Micah7:19 He will again have compassion on us; He will subdue and tread underfoot our iniquities. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. [Ps. 103:12.] 
Micah7:20 You will show Your faithfulness and perform the sure promise to Jacob and loving-kindness and mercy to Abraham, as You have sworn to our fathers from the days of old. [Luke 1:54, 55.]" 
Nahum1:1 THE BURDEN or oracle (the thing to be lifted up) concerning Nineveh [the capital of Assyria]. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh. 
Nahum1:2 The Lord is a jealous God and avenging; the Lord avenges and He is full of wrath. The Lord takes vengeance on His adversaries and reserves wrath for His enemies. [Exod. 20:5.] 
Nahum1:3 The Lord is slow to anger and great in power and will by no means clear the guilty. The Lord has His way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of His feet. [Exod. 34:6, 7.]" 
Nahum1:4 He rebukes and threatens the sea and makes it dry, and dries up all the rivers. Bashan [on the east] and Mount Carmel [on the west] wither, and [in the north] the blossom of Lebanon fades." 
Nahum1:5 The mountains tremble and quake before Him and the hills melt away, and the earth is upheaved at His presence,yes, the world and all that dwell in it." 
Nahum1:6 Who can stand before His indignation? And who can stand up and endure the fierceness of His anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken asunder by Him." 
Nahum1:7 The Lord is good, a Strength and Stronghold in the day of trouble; He knows (recognizes, has knowledge of, and understands) those who take refuge and trust in Him. [Ps. 1:6; Hos. 13:5; John 10:14, 27.]" 
Nahum1:8 But with an overrunning flood He will make a full end of [Nineveh's very] site and pursue His enemies into darkness. 
Nahum1:9 What do you devise and [how mad is your attempt to] plot against the Lord? He will make a full end [of Nineveh]; affliction [which My people shall suffer from Assyria] shall not rise up the second time. 
Nahum1:10 For [the Ninevites] are as bundles of thorn branches [for fuel], and even while drowned in their drunken [carousing] they shall be consumed like stubble fully dry [in the day of the Lord's wrath]. [Mal. 4:1.]" 
Nahum1:11 There is one gone forth out of you [O Nineveh] who plots evil against the Lord, a villainous counselor [the king of Assyria, who counsels for wickedness and worthlessness]. [II Kings 19:20-23; Isa. 10:5-7; 36:15-20.]" 
Nahum1:12 Thus says the Lord: Though they be in full strength and likewise many, even so shall [the Assyrians] be cut down when [their evil counselor] shall pass away. Though I have afflicted you [Jerusalem], I will not cause you to be afflicted [for your past sins] any more. [II Kings 19:35-37; John 5:14.]" 
Nahum1:13 For now will I break his yoke from off you and will burst your bonds asunder. [Isa. 14:25.] 
Nahum1:14 And the Lord has given a commandment concerning you [evil Assyrian counselor], that no more of your name shall be born nor shall your name be perpetuated. Out of the house of your gods I will cut off the graven and molten images; I will make [their temple] your tomb, for you are vile and despised. [Isa. 37:38.]" 
Nahum1:15 Behold! upon the mountains the feet of him who brings good tidings [telling of the Assyrian's death], who publishes peace! Celebrate your feasts, O Judah; perform your vows. For the wicked counselor [the king of Assyria] shall no more come against you or pass through your land; he is utterly cut off. [Isa. 52:7; Rom. 10:15.] [Then the prophet Nahum sarcastically addresses his message to Nineveh:]" 
Nahum2:1 HE WHO dashes in pieces [that is, the king of Medo-Babylon] is come up before your face [Nineveh]. Keep the fortress and ramparts manned, watch the road, gird your loins, collect and fortify all your strength and power mightily." 
Nahum2:2 For the Lord restores the excellency of Jacob as the excellency of [ancient] Israel, for plunderers have plundered them and emptied them out and [outrageously] destroyed their vine branches. [Isa. 10:12.]" 
Nahum2:3 The shields of the mighty men [of Media and Babylon] are [dyed] red; the valiant men are [clothed] in dyed scarlet. The chariots blaze with fire of steel on the day of his preparation [for battle], and the officers' horses prance like a cypress forest [reeling in the wind]." 
Nahum2:4 The chariots rage in confusion in the streets; they run to and fro [in wild terror] in the broad ways. They flash with steel [making them appear like torches]; they rush [in various directions] like forked lightnings. 
Nahum2:5 [The Assyrian leader] remembers and summons his bravest men; they stumble in their march. They hasten to the city's wall, and their movable defense shelter is prepared and set up." 
Nahum2:6 The gates or dams of the rivers [surrounding and guarding Nineveh] are opened and the [imperial] palace [of sun-dried brick] is dissolved [by the torrents] and is in dismay. 
Nahum2:7 It is decreed. She [Nineveh] is stripped and removed, and her maids are lamenting and moaning like doves [softly for fear], beating upon their breasts [and hearts]." 
Nahum2:8 And Nineveh, like a standing pool are her waters and [her inhabitants] are fleeing away! Stand! Stand [firm! a few cry], but no one looks back or causes them to return." 
Nahum2:9 Take the spoil of silver; take the spoil of gold! For there is no end of the treasure, the glory and wealth of all the precious furnishings." 
Nahum2:10 Emptiness! Desolation! Utter waste! Hearts faint and knees smite together, and anguish is in all loins, and the faces of all grow pale! [Isa. 13:7, 8.]" 
Nahum2:11 Where is the den of the lions which was the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and the lioness walked, and the lion's whelp, and none made them afraid?" 
Nahum2:12 The lion tore in pieces enough for his whelps and strangled [prey] for his lionesses; he filled his caves with prey and his dens with what he had seized and carried off. 
Nahum2:13 Behold, I am against you [Nineveh], says the Lord of hosts, and I will burn your chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour your young lions. And I will cut off your prey from the earth, and the voice of your messengers shall no more be heard." 
Nahum3:1 WOE TO the bloody city! It is full of lies and booty and [there is] no end to the plunder! [Ezek. 24:6, 9, 10; Hab. 2:12.]" 
Nahum3:2 The cracking of the whip, the noise of the rattling of wheels, and prancing horses and chariots rumbling and bounding," 
Nahum3:3 Horsemen mounting and charging, the flashing sword, the gleaming spear, a multitude of slain and a great number of corpses, no end of corpses! [The horsemen] stumble over the corpses!" 
Nahum3:4 All because of the multitude of the harlotries [of Nineveh], the well-favored harlot, the mistress of deadly charms who betrays and sells nations through her whoredoms [idolatry] and peoples through her enchantments." 
Nahum3:5 Behold, I am against you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will lift up your skirts over your face, and I will let the nations look on your nakedness [O Nineveh] and the kingdoms on your shame." 
Nahum3:6 I will cast abominable things at you and make you filthy, treat you with contempt, and make you a gazingstock." 
Nahum3:7 And all who look on you will shrink and flee from you and say, Nineveh is laid waste; who will pity and bemoan her? Where [then] shall I seek comforters for you?" 
Nahum3:8 Are you better than No-amon [Thebes, capital of Upper Egypt], that dwelt by the rivers or canals, that had the waters round about her, whose rampart was a sea [the Nile] and water her wall?" 
Nahum3:9 Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and that without limit. Put and the Libyans were her helpers." 
Nahum3:10 Yet she was carried away; she went into captivity. Her young children also were dashed in pieces at all the street corners; lots were cast [by the Assyrian officers] for her nobles, and all her great men were bound with chains." 
Nahum3:11 You will be drunk [Nineveh, with the cup of God's wrath]; you will be dazed. You will seek and require a refuge because of the enemy." 
Nahum3:12 All your fortresses are fig trees with early figs; if they are shaken they will fall into the mouth of the eater. 
Nahum3:13 Behold, your troops in the midst of you are [as weak and helpless as] women; the gates of your land are set wide open to your enemies [without effort]; fire consumes your bars." 
Nahum3:14 Draw for yourself the water [necessary] for a [long continued] siege, make strong your fortresses! Go down into the clay pits and trample the mortar; make ready the brickkiln [to burn bricks for the bulwarks]!" 
Nahum3:15 [But] there [in the very midst of these preparations] will the fire devour you; the sword will cut you off; it will destroy you as the locusts [destroy]. Multiply yourselves like the licking locusts; make yourselves many like the swarming locusts! 
Nahum3:16 You increased your merchants more than the [visible] stars of the heavens. The swarming locust spreads itself and destroys, and then flies away." 
Nahum3:17 Your princes are like the grasshoppers and your marshals like the swarms of locusts which encamp in the hedges on a cold day,but when the sun rises, they fly away, and no one knows where they are." 
Nahum3:18 Your shepherds are asleep, O king of Assyria; your nobles are lying still [in death]. Your people are scattered on the mountains and there is no one to gather them." 
Nahum3:19 There is no healing of your hurt; your wound is grievous. All who hear the news about you clap their hands over [what has happened to] you. For upon whom has not your [unceasing] evil come continually? 
Habakkuk1:1 THE BURDEN or oracle (the thing to be lifted up) which Habakkuk the prophet saw. 
Habakkuk1:2 O Lord, how long shall I cry for help and You will not hear? Or cry out to You of violence and You will not save?" 
Habakkuk1:3 Why do You show me iniquity and wrong, and Yourself look upon or cause me to see perverseness and trouble? For destruction and violence are before me; and there is strife, and contention arises." 
Habakkuk1:4 Therefore the law is slackened and justice and a righteous sentence never go forth, for the [hostility of the] wicked surrounds the [uncompromisingly] righteous; therefore justice goes forth perverted." 
Habakkuk1:5 Look around [you, Habakkuk, replied the Lord] among the nations and see! And be astonished! Astounded! For I am putting into effect a work in your days [such] that you would not believe it if it were told you. [Acts 13:40, 41.]" 
Habakkuk1:6 For behold, I am rousing up the Chaldeans, that bitter and impetuous nation who march through the breadth of the earth to take possession of dwelling places that do not belong to them. [II Kings 24:2.]" 
Habakkuk1:7 [The Chaldeans] are terrible and dreadful; their justice and dignity proceed [only] from themselves. 
Habakkuk1:8 Their horses also are swifter than leopards and are fiercer than the evening wolves, and their horsemen spread themselves and press on proudly; yes, their horsemen come from afar; they fly like an eagle that hastens to devour." 
Habakkuk1:9 They all come for violence; their faces turn eagerly forward, and they gather prisoners together like sand." 
Habakkuk1:10 They scoff at kings, and rulers are a derision to them; they ridicule every stronghold, for they heap up dust [for earth mounds] and take it." 
Habakkuk1:11 Then they sweep by like a wind and pass on, and they load themselves with guilt, [as do all men] whose own power is their god." 
Habakkuk1:12 Are not You from everlasting, O Lord my God, my Holy One? We shall not die. O Lord, You have appointed [the Chaldean] to execute [Your] judgment, and You, O Rock, have established him for chastisement and correction. [Deut. 32:4.]" 
Habakkuk1:13 You are of purer eyes than to behold evil and can not look [inactively] upon injustice. Why then do You look upon the plunderer? Why are you silent when the wicked one destroys him who is more righteous than [the Chaldean oppressor] is? 
Habakkuk1:14 Why do You make men like the fish of the sea, like reptiles and creeping things that have no ruler [and are defenseless against their foes]?" 
Habakkuk1:15 [The Chaldean] brings all of them up with his hook; he catches and drags them out with his net, he gathers them in his dragnet; so he rejoices and is in high spirits." 
Habakkuk1:16 Therefore he sacrifices [offerings] to his net and burns incense to his dragnet, because from them he lives luxuriously and his food is plentiful and rich." 
Habakkuk1:17 Shall he therefore continue to empty his net and mercilessly go on slaying the nations forever? 
Habakkuk2:1 [OH, I know, I have been rash to talk out plainly this way to God!] I will [in my thinking] stand upon my post of observation and station myself on the tower or fortress, and will watch to see what He will say within me and what answer I will make [as His mouthpiece] to the perplexities of my complaint against Him." 
Habakkuk2:2 And the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision and engrave it so plainly upon tablets that everyone who passes may [be able to] read [it easily and quickly] as he hastens by." 
Habakkuk2:3 For the vision is yet for an appointed time and it hastens to the end [fulfillment]; it will not deceive or disappoint. Though it tarry, wait [earnestly] for it, because it will surely come; it will not be behindhand on its appointed day. [Heb. 10:37, 38.]" 
Habakkuk2:4 Look at the proud; his soul is not straight or right within him, but the [rigidly] just and the [uncompromisingly] righteous man shall live by his faith and in his faithfulness. [Rom. 1:17; Gal. 3:11.]" 
Habakkuk2:5 Moreover, wine and wealth are treacherous; the proud man [the Chaldean invader] is restless and cannot stay at home. His appetite is large like that of Sheol and [his greed] is like death and cannot be satisfied; he gathers to himself all nations and collects all people as if he owned them." 
Habakkuk2:6 Shall not all these [victims of his greed] take up a taunt against him and in scoffing derision of him say, Woe to him who piles up that which is not his! [How long will he possess it?] And [woe to him] who loads himself with promissory notes for usury!" 
Habakkuk2:7 Shall [your debtors] not rise up suddenly who shall bite you, exacting usury of you, and those awake who will vex you [toss you to and fro and make you tremble violently]? Then you will be booty for them." 
Habakkuk2:8 Because you [king of Babylon] have plundered many nations, all who are left of the people shall plunder you,because of men's blood and for the violence done to the earth, to the city and all the people who live in each city." 
Habakkuk2:9 Woe to him who obtains wicked gain for his house, [who thinks by so doing] to set his nest on high that he may be preserved from calamity and delivered from the power of evil!" 
Habakkuk2:10 You have devised shame to your house by cutting off and putting an end to many peoples, and you have sinned against and forfeited your own life." 
Habakkuk2:11 For the stone shall cry out of the wall [built in sin, to accuse you], and the beam out of the woodwork will answer it [agreeing with its charge against you]." 
Habakkuk2:12 Woe to him who builds a town with blood and establishes a city by iniquity! 
Habakkuk2:13 Behold, is it not by appointment of the Lord of hosts that the nations toil only to satisfy the fire [that will consume their work], and the peoples weary themselves only for emptiness, falsity, and futility?" 
Habakkuk2:14 But [the time is coming when] the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. [Isa. 11:9.] 
Habakkuk2:15 Woe to him who gives his neighbors drink, who pours out your bottle to them and adds to it your poisonous and blighting wrath and also makes them drunk, that you may look on their stripped condition and pour out foul shame [on their glory]!" 
Habakkuk2:16 You [yourself] will be filled with shame and contempt instead of glory. Drink also and be like an uncircumcised [heathen]! The cup [of wrath] in the Lord's right hand will come around to you [O destroyer], and foul shame shall be upon your own glory! [Rev. 16:19.]" 
Habakkuk2:17 For the violence done to Lebanon will cover and overwhelm you; the destruction of the animals [which the violence frightened away] will terrify you on account of men's blood and the violence done to the land, to the city and all its inhabitants." 
Habakkuk2:18 What profit is the graven image when its maker has formed it? It is only a molten image and a teacher of lies. For the maker trusts in his own creations [as his gods] when he makes dumb idols. 
Habakkuk2:19 Woe to him who says to the wooden image, Awake! and to the dumb stone, Arise, teach! [Yet, it cannot, for] behold, it is laid over with gold and silver and there is no breath at all inside it!" 
Habakkuk2:20 But the Lord is in His holy temple; let all the earth hush and keep silence before Him. [Zeph. 1:7; Zech. 2:13.] 
Habakkuk3:1 A PRAYER of Habakkuk the prophet, set to wild, enthusiastic, and triumphal music." 
Habakkuk3:2 O Lord, I have heard the report of You and was afraid. O Lord, revive Your work in the midst of the years, in the midst of the years make [Yourself] known! In wrath [earnestly] remember love, pity, and mercy." 
Habakkuk3:3 God [approaching from Sinai] came from Teman [which represents Edom] and the Holy One from Mount Paran [in the Sinai region]. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! His glory covered the heavens and the earth was full of His praise." 
Habakkuk3:4 And His brightness was like the sunlight; rays streamed from His hand, and there [in the sunlike splendor] was the hiding place of His power." 
Habakkuk3:5 Before Him went the pestilence [as in Egypt], and burning plague followed His feet [as in Sennacherib's army]. [Exod. 7:2-4; II Kings 19:32-35.]" 
Habakkuk3:6 He stood and measured the earth; He looked and shook the nations, and the eternal mountains were scattered and the perpetual hills bowed low. His ways are everlasting and His goings are of old." 
Habakkuk3:7 I [Habakkuk, in vision] saw the tents of Cushan [probably Ethiopia] in affliction; the [tent] curtains of the land of Midian trembled." 
Habakkuk3:8 Were You displeased with the rivers, O Lord? Or was Your anger against the rivers [You divided]? Was Your wrath against the [Red] Sea, that You rode [before] upon Your horses and Your chariots of victory and deliverance?" 
Habakkuk3:9 Your bow was made quite bare; sworn to the tribes [of Israel] by Your sure word were the rods of chastisement, scourges, and calamities. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]! With rivers You cleaved the earth [bringing forth waters in dry places]. [Exod. 17:6; Num. 20:11.]" 
Habakkuk3:10 The mountains saw You; they trembled and writhed [as if in pain]. The overflowing of the water passed by [as at the deluge]; the deep uttered its voice and lifted its hands on high. 
Habakkuk3:11 The sun and moon stood back [as before Joshua] in their habitation at the light of Your arrows as they sped, at the flash of Your glittering spear. [Josh. 10:12, 13.]" 
Habakkuk3:11 The sun and moon stood back [as before Joshua] in their habitation at the light of Your arrows as they sped, at the flash of Your glittering spear. [Josh. 10:12, 13.]" 
Habakkuk3:12 You marched through the land in indignation; You trampled and threshed the nations in anger. 
Habakkuk3:13 You went forth and have come for the salvation of Your people, for the deliverance and victory of Your anointed [people Israel]; You smote the head of the house of the wicked, laying bare the foundation even to the neck. Selah [pause, and calmly think of that]!" 
Habakkuk3:14 You pierced with his own arrows the head of [the enemy's] hordes; they came out as a whirlwind to scatter me [the people], rejoicing as if to devour the poor [Israel] secretly." 
Habakkuk3:15 You have trodden the sea with Your horses, [beside] the heap of great and surging waters. [Exod. 15:8.]" 
Habakkuk3:16 I heard and my [whole inner self] trembled; my lips quivered at the sound. Rottenness enters into my bones and under me [down to my feet]; I tremble. I will wait quietly for the day of trouble and distress when there shall come up against [my] people him who is about to invade and oppress them. 
Habakkuk3:17 Though the fig tree does not blossom and there is no fruit on the vines, [though] the product of the olive fails and the fields yield no food, though the flock is cut off from the fold and there are no cattle in the stalls," 
Habakkuk3:18 Yet I will rejoice in the Lord; I will exult in the [victorious] God of my salvation! [Rom. 8:37.] 
Habakkuk3:19 The Lord God is my Strength, my personal bravery, and my invincible army; He makes my feet like hinds' feet and will make me to walk [not to stand still in terror, but to walk] and make [spiritual] progress upon my high places [of trouble, suffering, or responsibility]! For the Chief Musician; with my stringed instruments." 
Zephaniah1:1 THE WORD of the Lord which came to Zephaniah son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah king of Judah and son of Amon." 
Zephaniah1:2 By taking away I will make an end and I will utterly consume and sweep away all things from the face of the earth, says the Lord." 
Zephaniah1:3 I will consume and sweep away man and beast; I will consume and sweep away the birds of the air and the fish of the sea. I will overthrow the stumbling blocks (the idols) with the wicked [worshipers], and I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth, says the Lord." 
Zephaniah1:4 I will also stretch out My hand over Judah and over all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place and the name of the idol priests with the [false] priests," 
Zephaniah1:5 And those who worship the starry host of the heavens upon their housetops and those who [pretend to] worship the Lord and swear by and to Him and yet swear by and to [the heathen god Molech or] Malcam [their idol king]," 
Zephaniah1:6 And those who have drawn back from following the Lord and those who have not sought the Lord nor inquired for, inquired of, and required the Lord [as their first necessity]." 
Zephaniah1:7 [Hush!] Be silent before the Lord God, for the day [of the vengeance] of the Lord is near; for the Lord has prepared a sacrifice, and He has set apart [for His use] those who have accepted His invitation. [Hab. 2:20.]" 
Zephaniah1:8 And on the day of the Lord's sacrifice, I will punish the officials and the king's sons and all who are clothed in [lavish] foreign apparel [instead of the Jewish dress, with its reminders to obey God's commandments]. [Num. 15:38, 39.]" 
Zephaniah1:9 In the same day also will I punish all those who leap swiftly on or over the threshold [upon entering houses to steal], who fill their master's house with violence and deceit and fraud." 
Zephaniah1:10 And in that day, says the Lord, there shall be heard the voice of crying from the Fish Gate [in the wall of Jerusalem] and a wailing from the Second Quarter or Lower City and a great crashing and sound of destruction from the hills." 
Zephaniah1:11 Wail, you inhabitants of the Mortar [those located in the hollow part of the city]! For all the merchant people, like the people of Canaan, will be silent [entirely destroyed]; all those who weighed out silver and were loaded with it will be cut off." 
Zephaniah1:12 And at that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps and punish the men who [like old wine] are thickening and settling on their lees, who say in their hearts, The Lord will not do good, nor will He do evil." 
Zephaniah1:13 And their wealth shall become plunder and their houses a desolation. Though they build houses, they shall not inhabit them; though they plant vineyards, they shall not drink the wine from them. [Deut. 28:30, 39; Amos 5:11, 12.]" 
Zephaniah1:13 And their wealth shall become plunder and their houses a desolation. Though they build houses, they shall not inhabit them; though they plant vineyards, they shall not drink the wine from them. [Deut. 28:30, 39; Amos 5:11, 12.]" 
Zephaniah1:14 The great day of the Lord is near,near and hastening fast. Hark! the voice of the day of the Lord! The mighty man [unable to fight or to flee] will cry then bitterly. 
Zephaniah1:15 That day is a day of wrath, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, [Jer. 30:7; Joel 2:11; Amos 5:18.]" 
Zephaniah1:15 That day is a day of wrath, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, [Jer. 30:7; Joel 2:11; Amos 5:18.]" 
Zephaniah1:15 That day is a day of wrath, a day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, [Jer. 30:7; Joel 2:11; Amos 5:18.]" 
Zephaniah1:16 A day of the blast of trumpet and battle cry against the fortified cities and against the high towers and battlements. 
Zephaniah1:17 And I will bring distress upon men, so that they shall walk like blind men, because they have sinned against the Lord; their blood shall be poured out like dust and their flesh like dung." 
Zephaniah1:18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the Lord's indignation and wrath. But the whole earth shall be consumed in the fire of His jealous wrath, for a full, yes, a sudden, end will He make of all the inhabitants of the earth. [Luke 21:35, 36; II Pet. 3:10-13.]" 
Zephaniah2:1 COLLECT YOUR thoughts, yes, unbend yourselves [in submission and see if there is no sense of shame and no consciousness of sin left in you], O shameless nation [not desirous or desired]!" 
Zephaniah2:2 [The time for repentance is speeding by like chaff whirled before the wind!] Therefore consider, before God's decree brings forth [the curse upon you], before the time [to repent] is gone like the drifting chaff, before the fierce anger of the Lord comes upon you,yes, before the day of the wrath of the Lord comes upon you!" 
Zephaniah2:3 Seek the Lord [inquire for Him, inquire of Him, and require Him as the foremost necessity of your life], all you humble of the land who have acted in compliance with His revealed will and have kept His commandments; seek righteousness, seek humility [inquire for them, require them as vital]. It may be you will be hidden in the day of the Lord's anger." 
Zephaniah2:4 For [hear the fate of the Philistines:] Gaza shall be forsaken and Ashkelon shall become a desolation; the people of Ashdod shall be driven out at noonday and Ekron shall be uprooted. 
Zephaniah2:5 Woe to the inhabitants of the seacoast, the nation of the Cherethites [in Philistia]! The word of the Lord is against you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines; I will destroy you until no inhabitant is left." 
Zephaniah2:6 And the seacoast shall be pastures, with [deserted] dwelling places and caves for shepherds and folds for flocks." 
Zephaniah2:7 The seacoast shall belong to the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall pasture their flocks upon it; in the houses of [deserted Philistine] Ashkelon shall they of Judah lie down in the evening. For the Lord their [Judah's] God shall visit them [for their relief] and restore them from their captivity. [Isa. 14:29-31; Amos 1:6-8.] 
Zephaniah2:7 The seacoast shall belong to the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall pasture their flocks upon it; in the houses of [deserted Philistine] Ashkelon shall they of Judah lie down in the evening. For the Lord their [Judah's] God shall visit them [for their relief] and restore them from their captivity. [Isa. 14:29-31; Amos 1:6-8.] 
Zephaniah2:8 I have heard the taunts of Moab and the revilings of the Ammonites by which they have reproached My people, and magnified themselves and made boasts against their territory." 
Zephaniah2:9 Therefore, as I live, says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Moab shall become like Sodom and the Ammonites like Gomorrah, a land possessed by nettles and wild vetches and salt pits, and a perpetual desolation. The remnant of My people shall make a prey of them and what is left of My nation shall possess them." 
Zephaniah2:10 This shall they have for their pride, because they have taunted and boasted against the people of the Lord of hosts." 
Zephaniah2:11 The Lord will be terrible to them, for He will make lean and famish all the gods of the earth; and men shall worship Him, every one from his place, even all the isles and coastlands of the nations. [Joel 2:11; Zeph. 1:4; 3:9.]" 
Zephaniah2:11 The Lord will be terrible to them, for He will make lean and famish all the gods of the earth; and men shall worship Him, every one from his place, even all the isles and coastlands of the nations. [Joel 2:11; Zeph. 1:4; 3:9.]" 
Zephaniah2:12 You Ethiopians also, you shall be slain by My sword. [Isa. 18.]" 
Zephaniah2:13 And [the Lord] will stretch out His hand against the north and destroy Assyria and will make Nineveh a desolation, dry as the desert. [Isa. 10:12; Nah. 1:1.]" 
Zephaniah2:14 Herds shall lie down in the midst of [Nineveh], all the [wild] beasts of the nations and of every kind; both the pelican and the hedgehog shall lodge on the upper part of her [fallen] pillars; the voice [of the nesting bird] shall sing in the windows; desolation and drought shall be on the thresholds, for her cedar paneling will He lay bare." 
Zephaniah2:15 This is the joyous and exultant city that dwelt carelessly [feeling so secure], that said in her heart, I am and there is none beside me. What a desolation she has become, a lair for [wild] beasts! Everyone who passes by her shall hiss and wave his hand [indicating his gratification]. [Isa. 10:5-34; 47:8, 10.]" 
Zephaniah3:1 WOE TO her that is rebellious and polluted, the oppressing city [Jerusalem]!" 
Zephaniah3:2 She did not listen to and heed the voice [of God]; she accepted no correction or instruction; she trusted not in the Lord [nor leaned on or was confident in Him, but was confident in her own wealth]; she drew not near to her God [but to the god of Baal or Molech]." 
Zephaniah3:3 Her officials in the midst of her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they gnaw not the bones on the morrow, for nothing is left by morning." 
Zephaniah3:4 Her prophets are light [lacking truth, gravity, and steadiness] and men of treachery; her priests have profaned the sanctuary; [defrauding God and man by pretending their own word is God's word] they have done violence to the law. [Jer. 23:11; Ezek. 22:26; Hos. 9:7.]" 
Zephaniah3:5 The Lord in the midst of her is [uncompromisingly] righteous; He will not do iniquity. Every morning He brings His justice to light; He fails not, but the unjust [person] knows no shame." 
Zephaniah3:6 I [the Lord] have cut off nations; their battlements and corner towers are desolate and in ruins. I laid their streets waste so that none passes over them; their cities are destroyed so that there is no man, there is no inhabitant." 
Zephaniah3:7 I said, Only let her [reverently and worshipfully] fear Me, receive correction and instruction, and [Jerusalem's] dwelling shall not be cut off. However, I have punished her [according to all that I have appointed concerning her in the way of punishment], but all the more they are eager to make all their doings corrupt and infamous." 
Zephaniah3:8 Therefore [earnestly] wait for Me, says the Lord, [waiting] for the day when I rise up to the attack [as a witness, accuser, or judge, and a testimony]. For My decision and determination and right it is to gather the nations together, to assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them My indignation, even all [the heat of] My fierce anger; for [in that day] all the earth shall be consumed with the fire of My zeal and jealousy." 
Zephaniah3:9 For then [changing their impure language] I will give to the people a clear and pure speech from pure lips, that they may all call upon the name of the Lord, to serve Him with one unanimous consent and one united shoulder [bearing the yoke of the Lord]." 
Zephaniah3:10 From beyond the rivers of Cush or Ethiopia those who pray to Me, the daughter of My dispersed people, will bring and present My offering." 
Zephaniah3:11 In that day you [the congregation of Israel] shall not be put to shame for all your deeds by which you have rebelled and transgressed against Me, for then I will take away out of your midst those who exult in your majesty and pride; and you shall no more be haughty [and carry yourselves arrogantly on or] because of My holy mountain." 
Zephaniah3:12 For I will leave in the midst of you a people afflicted and poor, and they shall trust, seek refuge, and be confident in the name of the Lord." 
Zephaniah3:13 What is left of Israel shall not do iniquity or speak lies, neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth, for they shall feed and lie down and none shall make them afraid." 
Zephaniah3:14 Sing, O Daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel! Rejoice, be in high spirits and glory with all your heart, O Daughter of Jerusalem [in that day]." 
Zephaniah3:15 [For then it will be that] the Lord has taken away the judgments against you; He has cast out your enemy. The King of Israel, even the Lord [Himself], is in the midst of you; [and after He has come to you] you shall not experience or fear evil any more." 
Zephaniah3:16 In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion. Let not your hands sink down or be slow and listless." 
Zephaniah3:17 The Lord your God is in the midst of you, a Mighty One, a Savior [Who saves]! He will rejoice over you with joy; He will rest [in silent satisfaction] and in His love He will be silent and make no mention [of past sins, or even recall them]; He will exult over you with singing." 
Zephaniah3:18 I will gather those belonging to you [those Israelites in captivity] who yearn and grieve for the solemn assembly [and the festivals], on whom [their exile and inability to attend services at Jerusalem have brought derision and] the reproach of it is a burden." 
Zephaniah3:19 Behold, at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you; I will save the limping [ones] and gather the outcasts and will make them a praise and a name in every land of their shame. [Mic. 4:6, 7.]" 
Zephaniah3:20 At that time I will bring you in; yes, at that time I will gather you, for I will make you a name and a praise among all the nations of the earth when I reverse your captivity before your eyes, says the Lord." 
Haggai1:1 IN THE second year of Darius king [of Persia], in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by means of Haggai the prophet [in Jerusalem after the Babylonian captivity] to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying," 
Haggai1:1 IN THE second year of Darius king [of Persia], in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by means of Haggai the prophet [in Jerusalem after the Babylonian captivity] to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying," 
Haggai1:2 Thus says the Lord of hosts: These people say, The time is not yet come that the Lord's house should be rebuilt [although Cyrus had ordered it done eighteen years before]. [Ezra 1:1-6; 4:1-6, 24; 5:1-3.]" 
Haggai1:2 Thus says the Lord of hosts: These people say, The time is not yet come that the Lord's house should be rebuilt [although Cyrus had ordered it done eighteen years before]. [Ezra 1:1-6; 4:1-6, 24; 5:1-3.]" 
Haggai1:3 Then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying," 
Haggai1:4 Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses while this house [of the Lord] lies in ruins? 
Haggai1:5 Now therefore thus says the Lord of hosts: Consider your ways and set your mind on what has come to you. 
Haggai1:6 You have sown much, but you have reaped little; you eat, but you do not have enough; you drink, but you do not have your fill; you clothe yourselves, but no one is warm; and he who earns wages has earned them to put them in a bag with holes in it." 
Haggai1:7 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Consider your ways (your previous and present conduct) and how you have fared. 
Haggai1:8 Go up to the hill country and bring lumber and rebuild [My] house, and I will take pleasure in it and I will be glorified, says the Lord [by accepting it as done for My glory and by displaying My glory in it]." 
Haggai1:9 You looked for much [harvest], and behold, it came to little; and even when you brought that home, I blew it away. Why? says the Lord of hosts. Because of My house, which lies waste while you yourselves run each man to his own house [eager to build and adorn it]." 
Haggai1:10 Therefore the heavens above you [for your sake] withhold the dew, and the earth withholds its produce." 
Haggai1:11 And I have called for a drought upon the land and the hill country, upon the grain, the fresh wine, the oil, upon what the ground brings forth, upon men and cattle, and upon all the [wearisome] toil of [men's] hands." 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people [who had returned from captivity], listened to and obeyed the voice of the Lord their God [not vaguely or partly, but completely, according to] the words of Haggai the prophet, since the Lord their God had sent him, and the people [reverently] feared and [worshipfully] turned to the Lord." 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people [who had returned from captivity], listened to and obeyed the voice of the Lord their God [not vaguely or partly, but completely, according to] the words of Haggai the prophet, since the Lord their God had sent him, and the people [reverently] feared and [worshipfully] turned to the Lord." 
Haggai1:13 Then Haggai, the Lord's messenger, spoke the Lord's message to the people saying, I am with you, says the Lord." 
Haggai1:14 And the Lord aroused the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, so that they came and labored on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God," 
Haggai1:14 And the Lord aroused the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, so that they came and labored on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God," 
Haggai1:15 On the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month. 
Haggai2:1 IN THE seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, in the second year of Darius king [of Persia], came the word of the Lord by the prophet Haggai, saying," 
Haggai2:2 Speak now to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remainder of the people, saying," 
Haggai2:2 Speak now to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remainder of the people, saying," 
Haggai2:3 Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Is not this in your sight as nothing in comparison to that? 
Haggai2:4 Yet now be strong, alert, and courageous, O Zerubbabel, says the Lord; be strong, alert, and courageous, O Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, alert, and courageous, all you people of the land, says the Lord, and work! For I am with you, says the Lord of hosts." 
Haggai2:4 Yet now be strong, alert, and courageous, O Zerubbabel, says the Lord; be strong, alert, and courageous, O Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, alert, and courageous, all you people of the land, says the Lord, and work! For I am with you, says the Lord of hosts." 
Haggai2:5 According to the promise that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt, so My Spirit stands and abides in the midst of you; fear not." 
Haggai2:6 For thus says the Lord of hosts: Yet once more, in a little while, I will shake and make tremble the [starry] heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land; [Heb. 12:26.]" 
Haggai2:7 And I will shake all nations and the desire and the precious things of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with splendor, says the Lord of hosts. [Isa. 60:5; Matt. 2:1-12.]" 
Haggai2:8 The silver is Mine and the gold is Mine, says the Lord of hosts." 
Haggai2:9 The latter glory of this house [with its successor, to which Jesus came] shall be greater than the former, says the Lord of hosts; and in this place will I give peace and prosperity, says the Lord of hosts." 
Haggai2:10 On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying," 
Haggai2:11 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Ask now the priests to decide this question of law: 
Haggai2:12 If one carries in the skirt of his garment flesh that is holy [because it has been offered in sacrifice to God], and with his skirt or the flaps of his garment he touches bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any kind of food, does what he touches become holy [dedicated to God's service exclusively]? And the priests answered, No! [Holiness is not infectious.]" 
Haggai2:13 Then said Haggai, If one who is [ceremonially] unclean because he has come in contact with a dead body should touch any of these articles of food, shall it be [ceremonially] unclean? And the priests answered, It shall be unclean. [Unholiness is infectious.]" 
Haggai2:14 Then answered Haggai, So is this people and so is this nation before Me, says the Lord; and so is every work of their hands, and what they offer there [on the altar] is unclean [because they who offer it are themselves unclean]." 
Haggai2:15 And now, I pray you, consider what will happen from this day onward. Since the time before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the Lord, how have you fared?" 
Haggai2:16 Through all that time [the harvests have not fulfilled expectations, for] when one has gone expecting to find a heap [of sheaves] of twenty measures, there were but ten; when he has gone to the wine vat to draw out fifty bucketfuls from the press, there were only twenty." 
Haggai2:17 I smote you with blight and with mildew and with hail in all [the products of] the labors of your hands; yet you returned not nor were converted to Me, says the Lord." 
Haggai2:18 Consider, I pray you, from this day onward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, even from the day that the foundation of the Lord's temple was [re]laid, consider this:" 
Haggai2:19 Is the harvested grain any longer in the barn? As to the grapevine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree,they have not yet borne. From this day on I will bless you." 
Haggai2:20 And again the word of the Lord came to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying," 
Haggai2:21 Speak to Zerubbabel [the representative of the Davidic monarchy and covenant and in direct line of the ancestry of Jesus Christ] governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth; [Hag. 2:6; Matt. 1:12, 13.]" 
Haggai2:22 And I will [in the distant future] overthrow the throne of kingdoms and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the [ungodly] nations, and I will overthrow the chariots and those who ride in them, and the horses and their riders shall go down, every one by the sword of his brother. [Dan. 2:34, 35, 44, 45; Rev. 19:11-21.]" 
Haggai2:23 In that day, says the Lord of hosts, will I take you, O Zerubbabel, My servant, the son of Shealtiel, says the Lord, and will make you [through the Messiah, your descendant] My signet ring; for I have chosen you [as the one with whom to renew My covenant to David's line], says the Lord of hosts. [II Sam. 7:12, 16.]" 
Zechariah1:1 IN THE eighth month, in the second year [of the reign] of Darius, came the word of the Lord to Zechariah son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying, [Ezra 5:1.]" 
Zechariah1:1 IN THE eighth month, in the second year [of the reign] of Darius, came the word of the Lord to Zechariah son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying, [Ezra 5:1.]" 
Zechariah1:2 The Lord was very angry with your fathers. 
Zechariah1:3 Therefore say to them [the Jews of this day], Thus says the Lord of hosts: Return to Me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you; it is the utterance of the Lord of hosts." 
Zechariah1:4 Be not as your fathers to whom the former prophets cried, Thus says the Lord of hosts: Return now from your evil ways and your evil doings; but they would not hear or listen to Me, says the Lord. [II Kings 17:13; Isa. 45:22; Jer. 18:11; Ezek. 33:11.]" 
Zechariah1:5 Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?" 
Zechariah1:6 But My words and My statutes, which I commanded My servants the prophets, did they not overtake and take hold of your fathers? So they repented and said, As the Lord of hosts planned and purposed to do to us, according to our ways and according to our doings, so has He dealt with us." 
Zechariah1:7 Upon the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat, in the second year of the reign of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet. Zechariah said," 
Zechariah1:8 I saw in the night [vision] and behold, a Man riding upon a red horse, and He stood among the myrtle trees that were in a low valley or bottom, and behind Him there were horses, red, bay or flame-colored, and white." 
Zechariah1:9 Then said I, O my lord, what are these? And the angel who talked with me said, I will show you what these are." 
Zechariah1:10 And the Man who stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are they whom the Lord has sent to walk to and fro through the earth and patrol it." 
Zechariah1:11 And the men on the horses answered the Angel of the Lord Who stood among the myrtle trees and said, We have walked to and fro through the earth [patrolling it] and behold, all the earth sits at rest [in peaceful security]." 
Zechariah1:12 Then the Angel of the Lord said, O Lord of hosts, how long will You not have mercy and lovingkindness for Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, against which You have had indignation these seventy years [of the Babylonian captivity]?" 
Zechariah1:13 And the Lord answered the angel who talked with me with gracious and comforting words. 
Zechariah1:14 So the angel who talked with me said to me, Cry out, Thus says the Lord of hosts: I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy." 
Zechariah1:15 And I am very angry with the nations that are at ease; for while I was but a little displeased, they helped forward the affliction and disaster." 
Zechariah1:16 Therefore thus says the Lord: I have returned to Jerusalem with compassion (lovingkindness and mercy). My house shall be built in it, says the Lord of hosts, and a measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem [with a view to rebuilding its walls]." 
Zechariah1:17 Cry yet again, saying, Thus says the Lord of hosts: My cities shall yet again overflow with prosperity, and the Lord shall yet comfort Zion and shall yet choose Jerusalem." 
Zechariah1:18 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, four horns [symbols of strength]." 
Zechariah1:19 And I said to the angel who talked with me, What are these? And he answered me, These are the horns or powers which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem." 
Zechariah1:20 Then the Lord showed me four smiths or workmen [one for each enemy horn, to beat it down]." 
Zechariah1:21 Then said I, What are these [horns and smiths] coming to do? And he said, These are the horns or powers that scattered Judah so that no man lifted up his head. But these smiths or workmen have come to terrorize them and cause them to be panic-stricken, to cast out the horns or powers of the nations who lifted up their horn against the land of Judah to scatter it." 
Zechariah2:1 AND I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand." 
Zechariah2:2 Then said I, Where are you going? And he said to me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its breadth and what is its length." 
Zechariah2:3 And behold, the angel who talked with me went forth and another angel went out to meet him," 
Zechariah2:4 And he said to the second angel, Run, speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited and dwell as villages without walls, because of the multitude of people and livestock in it." 
Zechariah2:5 For I, says the Lord, will be to her a wall of fire round about, and I will be the glory in the midst of her." 
Zechariah2:6 Ho! ho! [Hear and] flee from the land of the north, says the Lord, and from the four winds of the heavens, for to them have I scattered you, says the Lord." 
Zechariah2:7 Ho! Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon!" 
Zechariah2:8 For thus said the Lord of hosts, after [His] glory had sent me [His messenger] to the nations who plundered you,for he who touches you touches the apple or pupil of His eye:" 
Zechariah2:9 Behold, I will swing my hand over them and they shall become plunder for those who served them. Then you shall know (recognize and understand) that the Lord of hosts has sent me [His messenger]." 
Zechariah2:10 Sing and rejoice, O Daughter of Zion; for behold, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of you, says the Lord." 
Zechariah2:11 And many nations shall join themselves to the Lord in that day and shall be My people. And I will dwell in the midst of you, and you shall know (recognize and understand) that the Lord of hosts has sent me [His messenger] to you. [Isa. 2:3; Mic. 4:2.]" 
Zechariah2:12 And the Lord shall inherit Judah as His portion in the holy land and shall again choose Jerusalem. 
Zechariah2:13 Be still, all flesh, before the Lord, for He is aroused and risen from His holy habitation. [Hab. 2:20; Zeph. 1:7.]" 
Zechariah3:1 THEN [the guiding angel] showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the Angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at Joshua's right hand to be his adversary and to accuse him." 
Zechariah3:1 THEN [the guiding angel] showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the Angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at Joshua's right hand to be his adversary and to accuse him." 
Zechariah3:2 And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan! Even the Lord, Who [now and habitually] chooses Jerusalem, rebuke you! Is not this [returned captive Joshua] a brand plucked out of the fire? [Jude 9.]" 
Zechariah3:2 And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan! Even the Lord, Who [now and habitually] chooses Jerusalem, rebuke you! Is not this [returned captive Joshua] a brand plucked out of the fire? [Jude 9.]" 
Zechariah3:3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and was standing before the Angel [of the Lord]. 
Zechariah3:3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and was standing before the Angel [of the Lord]. 
Zechariah3:4 And He spoke to those who stood before Him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And He said to [Joshua], Behold, I have caused your iniquity to pass from you, and I will clothe you with rich apparel." 
Zechariah3:4 And He spoke to those who stood before Him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And He said to [Joshua], Behold, I have caused your iniquity to pass from you, and I will clothe you with rich apparel." 
Zechariah3:5 And I [Zechariah] said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with [rich] garments. And the Angel of the Lord stood by." 
Zechariah3:6 And the Angel of the Lord [solemnly and earnestly] protested and affirmed to Joshua, saying," 
Zechariah3:6 And the Angel of the Lord [solemnly and earnestly] protested and affirmed to Joshua, saying," 
Zechariah3:7 Thus says the Lord of hosts: If you will walk in My ways and keep My charge, then also you shall rule My house and have charge of My courts, and I will give you access [to My presence] and places to walk among these who stand here." 
Zechariah3:8 Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your colleagues who [usually] sit before you,for they are men who are a sign or omen [types of what is to come],for behold, I will bring forth My servant the Branch. [Isa. 4:2; Jer. 23:5; 33:15; Zech. 6:12.]" 
Zechariah3:8 Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your colleagues who [usually] sit before you,for they are men who are a sign or omen [types of what is to come],for behold, I will bring forth My servant the Branch. [Isa. 4:2; Jer. 23:5; 33:15; Zech. 6:12.]" 
Zechariah3:9 For behold, upon the stone which I have set before Joshua, upon that one stone are seven eyes or facets [the all-embracing providence of God and the sevenfold radiations of the Spirit of God]. Behold, I will carve upon it its inscription, says the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity and guilt of this land in a single day. [II Chron. 16:9; Jer. 50:20; Zech. 4:10.]" 
Zechariah3:9 For behold, upon the stone which I have set before Joshua, upon that one stone are seven eyes or facets [the all-embracing providence of God and the sevenfold radiations of the Spirit of God]. Behold, I will carve upon it its inscription, says the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity and guilt of this land in a single day. [II Chron. 16:9; Jer. 50:20; Zech. 4:10.]" 
Zechariah3:10 In that day, says the Lord of hosts, you shall invite each man his neighbor under his own vine and his own fig tree. [Mic. 4:1-4.]" 
Zechariah4:1 AND THE angel who talked with me came again and awakened me, like a man who is wakened out of his sleep." 
Zechariah4:2 And said to me, What do you see? I said, I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with its bowl [for oil] on the top of it and its seven lamps on it, and [there are] seven pipes to each of the seven lamps which are upon the top of it. [Matt. 5:14, 16; Luke 12:35; Phil. 2:15; Rev. 1:20.]" 
Zechariah4:3 And there are two olive trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl and the other upon the left side of it [feeding it continuously with oil]. [Rev. 11:4-13.]" 
Zechariah4:4 So I asked the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord?" 
Zechariah4:5 Then the angel who talked with me answered me, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord." 
Zechariah4:6 Then he said to me, This [addition of the bowl to the candlestick, causing it to yield a ceaseless supply of oil from the olive trees] is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by My Spirit [of Whom the oil is a symbol], says the Lord of hosts." 
Zechariah4:7 For who are you, O great mountain [of human obstacles]? Before Zerubbabel [who with Joshua had led the return of the exiles from Babylon and was undertaking the rebuilding of the temple, before him] you shall become a plain [a mere molehill]! And he shall bring forth the finishing gable stone [of the new temple] with loud shoutings of the people, crying, Grace, grace to it! [Ezra 4:1-5, 24; Isa. 40:4.]" 
Zechariah4:7 For who are you, O great mountain [of human obstacles]? Before Zerubbabel [who with Joshua had led the return of the exiles from Babylon and was undertaking the rebuilding of the temple, before him] you shall become a plain [a mere molehill]! And he shall bring forth the finishing gable stone [of the new temple] with loud shoutings of the people, crying, Grace, grace to it! [Ezra 4:1-5, 24; Isa. 40:4.]" 
Zechariah4:7 For who are you, O great mountain [of human obstacles]? Before Zerubbabel [who with Joshua had led the return of the exiles from Babylon and was undertaking the rebuilding of the temple, before him] you shall become a plain [a mere molehill]! And he shall bring forth the finishing gable stone [of the new temple] with loud shoutings of the people, crying, Grace, grace to it! [Ezra 4:1-5, 24; Isa. 40:4.]" 
Zechariah4:8 Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Zechariah4:9 The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundations of this house; his hands shall also finish it. Then you shall know (recognize and understand) that the Lord of hosts has sent me [His messenger] to you. 
Zechariah4:10 Who [with reason] despises the day of small things? For these seven shall rejoice when they see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel. [These seven] are the eyes of the Lord which run to and fro throughout the whole earth. [Rev. 5:6.] 
Zechariah4:11 Then I said to him [the angel who talked with me], What are these two olive trees on the right side of the lampstand and on the left side of it?" 
Zechariah4:12 And a second time I said to him, What are these two olive branches which are beside the two golden tubes or spouts by which the golden oil is emptied out?" 
Zechariah4:13 And he answered me, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord." 
Zechariah4:14 Then said he, These are the two sons of oil [Joshua the high priest and Zerubbabel the prince of Judah, the two anointed ones] who stand before the Lord of the whole earth [as His anointed instruments]. [Rev. 11:4.]" 
Zechariah4:14 Then said he, These are the two sons of oil [Joshua the high priest and Zerubbabel the prince of Judah, the two anointed ones] who stand before the Lord of the whole earth [as His anointed instruments]. [Rev. 11:4.]" 
Zechariah5:1 AGAIN I lifted up my eyes and behold, I saw a scroll flying or floating in the air!" 
Zechariah5:2 And the angel said to me, What do you see? And I answered, I see a flying scroll; its length is twenty cubits or thirty feet and its breadth is ten cubits or fifteen feet." 
Zechariah5:3 Then he said to me, This is the curse that goes out over the face of the whole land; for everyone who steals shall be cut off from henceforth according to it [the curse written on this subject on the scroll], and everyone who swears falsely shall be cut off from henceforth according to it. [Isa. 24:6; Mal. 3:8, 9.]" 
Zechariah5:4 I will bring [the curse] forth, says the Lord of hosts, and it shall enter into the house of the thief and into the house of him who swears falsely by My name; and it shall abide in the midst of his house and shall consume it, both its timber and its stones." 
Zechariah5:5 Then the angel who talked with me came forward and said to me, Lift up now your eyes and see what this is that goes forth." 
Zechariah5:6 And I said, What is it? [What does it symbolize?] And he said, This that goes forth is an ephah[-sized vessel for separate grains all collected together]. This, he continued, is the symbol of the sinners mentioned above and is the resemblance of their iniquity throughout the whole land. [Amos 8:5.]" 
Zechariah5:6 And I said, What is it? [What does it symbolize?] And he said, This that goes forth is an ephah[-sized vessel for separate grains all collected together]. This, he continued, is the symbol of the sinners mentioned above and is the resemblance of their iniquity throughout the whole land. [Amos 8:5.]" 
Zechariah5:7 And behold, a round, flat weight of lead was lifted and there sat a woman in the midst of the ephah[-sized vessel]." 
Zechariah5:8 And he said, This is lawlessness (wickedness)! And he thrust her back into the ephah[-sized vessel] and he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth of it!" 
Zechariah5:9 Then lifted I up my eyes and looked, and behold, there were two women coming forward! The wind was in their wings, for they had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the ephah[-sized vessel] between the earth and the heavens." 
Zechariah5:10 Then said I to the angel who talked with me, Where are they taking the ephah[-sized vessel]?" 
Zechariah5:11 And he said to me, To the land of Shinar [Babylonia] to build it a house, and when it is finished, to set up the ephah[-sized vessel,the symbol of such sinners and their guilt] there upon its own base." 
Zechariah6:1 AND AGAIN I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of firm, immovable bronze." 
Zechariah6:2 The first chariot had red or bay horses, the second chariot had black horses," 
Zechariah6:3 The third chariot had white horses, and the fourth chariot had dappled, active, and strong horses." 
Zechariah6:4 Then I said to the angel who talked with me, What are these, my lord?" 
Zechariah6:5 And the angel answered me, These are the four winds or spirits of the heavens, which go forth from presenting themselves before the Lord of all the earth. [Ps. 104:4; Matt. 24:31.]" 
Zechariah6:6 The chariot with the black horses is going forth into the north country, and the white ones are going forth after them [because there are two northern powers to overcome], and the dappled ones are going forth toward the south country." 
Zechariah6:7 And [the chariots with] the strong [horses] went forth and sought to go that they might patrol the earth. And [the Lord] said to them, Go, walk to and fro through the earth and patrol it. So they walked about through the earth [watching and protecting it]." 
Zechariah6:8 Then He summoned me and said to me, Behold, these that go toward the north country have quieted My Spirit [of wrath] and have caused it to rest in the north country." 
Zechariah6:9 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying," 
Zechariah6:10 Accept donations and offerings from these [as representatives of the] exiles, from Heldai, from Tobijah, and from Jedaiah, who have come from Babylon; and come the same day and go to the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:10 Accept donations and offerings from these [as representatives of the] exiles, from Heldai, from Tobijah, and from Jedaiah, who have come from Babylon; and come the same day and go to the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:11 Yes, take from them silver and gold, and make crowns and set [one] upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest," 
Zechariah6:11 Yes, take from them silver and gold, and make crowns and set [one] upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest," 
Zechariah6:12 And say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts: [You, Joshua] behold (look at, keep in sight, watch) the Man [the Messiah] whose name is the Branch, for He shall grow up in His place and He shall build the [true] temple of the Lord. [Isa. 4:2; Jer. 23:5; 33:15; Zech. 3:8.]" 
Zechariah6:12 And say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts: [You, Joshua] behold (look at, keep in sight, watch) the Man [the Messiah] whose name is the Branch, for He shall grow up in His place and He shall build the [true] temple of the Lord. [Isa. 4:2; Jer. 23:5; 33:15; Zech. 3:8.]" 
Zechariah6:13 Yes, [you are building a temple of the Lord, but] it is He Who shall build the [true] temple of the Lord, and He shall bear the honor and glory [as of the only begotten of the Father] and shall sit and rule upon His throne. And He shall be a Priest upon His throne, and the counsel of peace shall be between the two [offices,Priest and King]. [John 1:14; 17:5; Heb. 2:9.]" 
Zechariah6:14 And the [other] crown shall be [credited] to Helem (Heldai), to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to the kindness and favor of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, and shall be in the temple of the Lord for a reminder and memorial. [Matt. 10:41.]" 
Zechariah6:14 And the [other] crown shall be [credited] to Helem (Heldai), to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to the kindness and favor of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, and shall be in the temple of the Lord for a reminder and memorial. [Matt. 10:41.]" 
Zechariah6:15 And those who are far off shall come and help build the temple of the Lord, and you shall know (recognize and understand) that the Lord sent me [Zechariah] to you. And [your part in this] shall come to pass if you will diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God." 
Zechariah7:1 AND IN the fourth year of the reign of King Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zechariah on the fourth day of the ninth month, Chislev." 
Zechariah7:2 Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-melech and their men to pray and entreat the favor of the Lord 
Zechariah7:3 And to speak to the priests of the house of the Lord of hosts and to the prophets, saying, [Now that I am returned from exile] should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself as I have done these so many years [in Babylon]?" 
Zechariah7:4 Then came the word of the Lord of hosts to me [Zechariah], saying," 
Zechariah7:5 Speak to all the people of the land and to the priests, saying, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh months, even those seventy years you were in exile, was it for Me that you fasted, for Me?" 
Zechariah7:6 And when you ate and when you drank, did you not eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves?" 
Zechariah7:7 Should you not hear the words which the Lord cried by the former prophets when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity with her cities round about her, and the South (the Negeb) and the lowlands were inhabited?" 
Zechariah7:8 And the word of the Lord came to Zechariah, saying," 
Zechariah7:9 Thus has the Lord of hosts spoken: Execute true judgment and show mercy and kindness and tender compassion, every man to his brother;" 
Zechariah7:10 And oppress not the widow or the fatherless, the temporary resident or the poor, and let none of you devise or imagine or think evil against his brother in your heart." 
Zechariah7:11 But they refused to listen and turned a rebellious and stubborn shoulder and made heavy and dull their ears that they might not hear. 
Zechariah7:12 Yes, they made their hearts as an adamant stone or diamond point, lest they should hear the law and the words which the Lord of hosts had sent by His Spirit through the former prophets. Therefore there came great wrath from the Lord of hosts." 
Zechariah7:13 So it came to pass that as He cried and they would not hear [He said], So they shall cry and I will not answer, says the Lord of hosts," 
Zechariah7:14 But I will scatter them with a whirlwind among all the nations whom they know not and who know not them. Thus the land was desolate after they had gone, so that no man passed through or returned, for they [the Jews by their sins] had [caused to be] laid waste and forsaken the pleasant land (the land of desire)." 
Zechariah8:1 AND THE word of the Lord of hosts came to me, saying," 
Zechariah8:2 Thus says the Lord of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath [against her enemies]." 
Zechariah8:3 Thus says the Lord: I shall return to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem shall be called the [faithful] City of Truth, and the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the Holy Mountain." 
Zechariah8:4 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Old men and old women shall again dwell in Jerusalem and sit out in the streets, every man with his staff in his hand for very [advanced] age." 
Zechariah8:5 And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in its streets. 
Zechariah8:6 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Because it will be marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days [in which it comes to pass], should it also be marvelous in My eyes? says the Lord of hosts. [Gen. 18:14; Jer. 32:17, 27; Luke 18:27.]" 
Zechariah8:7 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will save My people from the east country and from the west [the country of the going down of the sun]. [Isa. 43:5, 6.]" 
Zechariah8:8 And I will bring them [home] and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem; and they shall be My people, and I will be their God in truth and faithfulness and in righteousness." 
Zechariah8:9 Thus says the Lord of hosts: Let your hands be strong and hardened, you who in these days hear these words from the mouths of the prophets who on the day that the foundation of the house of the Lord of hosts was laid foretold that the temple should be rebuilt." 
Zechariah8:10 For before those days there was no hire for man nor any hire for beast, neither was there any peace or success to him who went out or came in because of the adversary and oppressor, for I set (let loose) all men, every one against his neighbor." 
Zechariah8:11 But now [in this period since you began to build] I am not to the remnant of this people as in the former days, says the Lord of hosts." 
Zechariah8:12 For there shall the seed produce peace and prosperity; the vine shall yield her fruit and the ground shall give its increase and the heavens shall give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit and possess all these things. 
Zechariah8:13 And as you have been a curse and a byword among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong and hardened. [Jer. 22:8, 9.]" 
Zechariah8:14 For thus says the Lord of hosts: As I thought to bring calamity upon you when your fathers provoked Me to wrath, says the Lord of hosts, and I did not relent or revoke your sentence," 
Zechariah8:15 So again have I purposed in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Fear not! 
Zechariah8:16 These are the things that you shall do: speak every man the truth with his neighbor; render the truth and pronounce the judgment or verdict that makes for peace in [the courts at] your gates. [Eph. 4:25.] 
Zechariah8:17 And let none of you think or imagine or devise evil or injury in your hearts against his neighbor, and love no false oath, for all these things I hate, says the Lord." 
Zechariah8:18 And the word of the Lord of hosts came to me [Zechariah], saying," 
Zechariah8:19 Thus says the Lord of hosts: The fast of the fourth month and the fast of the fifth, the fast of the seventh and the fast of the tenth, shall be to the house of Judah times of joy and gladness and cheerful, appointed seasons; therefore [in order that this may happen to you, as the condition of fulfilling the promise] love truth and peace." 
Zechariah8:20 Thus says the Lord of hosts: It shall yet come to pass that there shall come [to Jerusalem] peoples and the inhabitants of many and great cities," 
Zechariah8:21 And the inhabitants of one city shall go to them of another, saying, Let us go speedily to pray and entreat the favor of the Lord and to seek, inquire of, and require [to meet our own most essential need] the Lord of hosts. I will go also." 
Zechariah8:22 Yes, many people and strong nations shall come to Jerusalem to seek, inquire of, and require [to fill their own urgent need] the Lord of hosts and to pray to the Lord for His favor." 
Zechariah8:23 Thus says the Lord of hosts: In those days ten men out of all languages of the nations shall take hold of the robe of him who is a Jew, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you." 
Zechariah9:1 THE BURDEN or oracle (the thing to be lifted up) of the word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrach [in Syria], and Damascus shall be its resting place, for the Lord has an eye upon mankind as upon all the tribes of Israel," 
Zechariah9:2 And Hamath also, which borders on [Damascus], Tyre with Sidon, though they are very wise." 
Zechariah9:3 And Tyre has built herself a stronghold [on an island a half mile from the shore, which seems impregnable], and heaped up silver like dust and fine gold like the mire of the streets." 
Zechariah9:4 Behold, the Lord will cast her out and dispossess her; He will smite her power in the sea and into it and [Tyre] shall be devoured by fire." 
Zechariah9:5 [The strong cities of Philistia] shall see it and fear; Ashkelon, Gaza also, and be sorely pained, and Ekron, for her confidence and expectation shall be put to shame, and a king [monarchial government] shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited." 
Zechariah9:6 And a mongrel people shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will put an end to the pride of the Philistines." 
Zechariah9:7 And I will take out of [the Philistines'] mouths and from between their teeth the abominable idolatrous sacrifices eaten with the blood. And they too shall remain and be a remnant for our God, and they shall be like chieftains (the head over a thousand) in Judah, and Ekron shall be like one of the Jebusites [who at last were merged and had lost their identity in Israel]." 
Zechariah9:8 Then I will encamp about My house as a guard or a garrison so that none shall march back and forth, and no oppressor or demanding collector shall again overrun them, for now My eyes are upon them." 
Zechariah9:9 Rejoice greatly, O Daughter of Zion! Shout aloud, O Daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your King comes to you; He is [uncompromisingly] just and having salvation [triumphant and victorious], patient, meek, lowly, and riding on a donkey, upon a colt, the foal of a donkey. [Matt. 21:5; John 12:14, 15.]" 
Zechariah9:10 And I will cut off and exterminate the war chariot from Ephraim and the [war] horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off; and He shall speak the word and peace shall come to the nations, and His dominion shall be from the [Mediterranean] Sea to [any other] sea, and from the River [Euphrates] to the ends of the earth! [Ps. 72:8.]" 
Zechariah9:11 As for you also, because of and for the sake of the [covenant of the Lord with His people, which was sealed with sprinkled] covenant blood, I have released and sent forth your imprisoned people out of the waterless pit. [Gen. 37:24; Exod. 24:4-8; Heb. 9:16.]" 
Zechariah9:12 Return to the stronghold [of security and prosperity], you prisoners of hope; even today do I declare that I will restore double your former prosperity to you. [Ps. 40:2; Isa. 40:2.]" 
Zechariah9:13 For I have bent Judah for Myself as My bow, filled the bow with Ephraim as My arrow, and will stir up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece, and will make you [Israel] as the sword of a mighty man." 
Zechariah9:14 And the Lord shall be seen over them and His arrow shall go forth as the lightning, and the Lord God will blow the trumpet and will go forth in the windstorms of the south." 
Zechariah9:15 The Lord of hosts shall defend and protect them; and they shall devour and they shall tread on [their fallen enemies] as on slingstones [that have missed their aim], and they shall drink [of victory] and be noisy and turbulent as from wine and become full like bowls [used to catch the sacrificial blood], like the corners of the [sacrificial] altar." 
Zechariah9:16 And the Lord their God will save them on that day as the flock of His people, for they shall be as the [precious] jewels of a crown, lifted high over and shining glitteringly upon His land." 
Zechariah9:17 For how great is God's goodness and how great is His beauty! And how great [He will make Israel's] goodliness and [Israel's] beauty! Grain shall make the young men thrive and fresh wine the maidens. 
Zechariah10:1 ASK OF the Lord rain in the time of the latter or spring rain. It is the Lord Who makes lightnings which usher in the rain and give men showers, and grass to everyone in the field." 
Zechariah10:2 For the teraphim (household idols) have spoken vanity (emptiness, falsity, and futility) and the diviners have seen a lie and the dreamers have told false dreams; they comfort in vain. Therefore the people go their way like sheep; they are afflicted and hurt because there is no shepherd." 
Zechariah10:3 My anger is kindled against the shepherds [who are not true shepherds] and I will punish the goat leaders, for the Lord of hosts has visited His flock, the house of Judah, and will make them as His beautiful and majestic horse in the battle. [Ezek. 34:1-10.]" 
Zechariah10:4 Out of him [Judah] shall come forth the Cornerstone, out of him the tent peg, out of him the battle bow; every ruler shall proceed from him. [Jer. 30:21.]" 
Zechariah10:5 And they shall be like mighty men treading down their enemies in the mire of the streets in the battle, and they shall fight because the Lord is with them, and the [oppressor's] riders on horses shall be confounded and put to shame." 
Zechariah10:6 And I will strengthen the house of Judah and I will save the house of Joseph [Ephraim]. I will bring them back and cause them to dwell securely, for I have mercy, loving-kindness, and compassion for them. They shall be as though I had not cast them off, for I am the Lord their God, and I will hear them." 
Zechariah10:7 Then Ephraim [the ten tribes] shall become like a mighty warrior, and their hearts shall rejoice as through wine; yes, their children shall see it and rejoice; their hearts shall feel great delight and glory triumphantly in the Lord!" 
Zechariah10:8 I will hiss for them [as the keeper does for his bees] and gather them in, for I have redeemed them, and they shall increase [again] as they have increased [before, in Egypt]. [Ezek. 36:10, 11.]" 
Zechariah10:9 And though I sow them among the nations, yet they shall [earnestly] remember Me in far countries, and with their children they shall live and shall return [to God and the land He gave them]." 
Zechariah10:10 I will bring them [all Israel] home again from the land of Egypt and gather them out of Assyria, and I will bring them into the land [on the east and on the west of the Jordan, into] Gilead and Lebanon, and room enough shall not be found for them." 
Zechariah10:11 And [the Lord] will pass through the sea of distress and affliction [at the head of His people, as He did at the Red Sea]; and He will smite down the waves of the sea, and all the depths of the [river] Nile shall be dried up and put to shame; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down and the scepter or rod [of the taskmasters of Egypt] shall pass away." 
Zechariah10:12 And I will strengthen [Israel] in the Lord, and they shall walk up and down and glory in His name, says the Lord." 
Zechariah11:1 OPEN YOUR doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour your cedars!" 
Zechariah11:2 Wail, O fir tree and cypress, for the cedar has fallen, because the glorious and lofty trees are laid waste! Wail, O you oaks of Bashan, for the thick and inaccessible forest [on the steep mountainside] has in flames been felled!" 
Zechariah11:3 A voice of the wailing of the shepherds, for their glory, the broad pasturage, is laid waste! A voice of the roaring of young lions, for the pride of the Jordan [the jungle or thickets] is ruined!" 
Zechariah11:4 Thus says the Lord my God: Shepherd the flock [destined] for slaughter," 
Zechariah11:5 Whose buyers or possessors slay them and hold themselves not guilty; and they who sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, for I have become rich! And their own shepherds neither pity nor spare them [from the wolves]." 
Zechariah11:6 For I will no more pity or spare the inhabitants of the land, says the Lord; but behold, I will deliver every man into his neighbor's hand and into the hand of his [foreign] king. And [the enemy] shall lay waste the land, and I will not deliver [the people] out of the hand [of the foreign oppressor]." 
Zechariah11:7 So I [Zechariah] shepherded the flock of slaughter, truly [as the name implies] the most miserable of sheep. And I took two [shepherd's] staffs, the one I called Beauty or Grace and the other I called Bands or Union; and I fed and shepherded the flock." 
Zechariah11:8 And I cut off the three shepherds [the civil authorities, the priests, and the prophets] in one month, for I was weary and impatient with them, and they also loathed me. [Jer. 2:8, 26; 18:18.]" 
Zechariah11:9 So I [Zechariah] said, I will not be your shepherd. What is to die, let it die, and what is to be destroyed, let it be destroyed; and let the survivors devour one another's flesh." 
Zechariah11:10 And I took my staff, Beauty or Grace, and broke it in pieces to show that I was annulling the covenant or agreement which I had made with all the peoples [not to molest them]." 
Zechariah11:11 So the covenant was annulled on that day, and thus the most wretched of the flock and the traffickers in the sheep who were watching me knew (recognized and understood) that it was truly the word of the Lord." 
Zechariah11:12 And I said to them, If it seems just and right to you, give me my wages; but if not, withhold them. So they weighed out for my price thirty pieces of silver." 
Zechariah11:13 And the Lord said to me, Cast it to the potter [as if He said, To the dogs!],the munificently [miserable] sum at which I [and My shepherd] am priced by them! And I [Zechariah] took the thirty pieces of silver and cast them to the potter in the house of the Lord. [Matt. 26:14, 15; 27:3-10.]" 
Zechariah11:14 Then I broke into pieces my other staff, Bands or Union, indicating that I was annulling the brotherhood between Judah and Israel." 
Zechariah11:15 And the Lord said to me, Take up once more the implements [the staff and rod of a shepherd, but this time] of a worthless and wicked shepherd. [Ezek. 34:2-6.]" 
Zechariah11:16 For behold, I will raise up a false shepherd in the land; the lost and perishing he will not miss or visit, the young and scattered he will not go to seek, the wounded and broken he will not heal, nor will he feed those that are sound and strong; but he will eat the flesh of the fat ones and break off their hoofs [to consume all the flesh]." 
Zechariah11:17 Woe to the worthless and foolish shepherd who deserts the flock! The sword shall smite his arm and his right eye; his arm shall be utterly withered and his right eye utterly blinded. [Jer. 23:1; John 10:12, 13.]" 
Zechariah12:1 THE BURDEN or oracle (the thing to be lifted up) of the word of the Lord concerning Israel: Thus says the Lord, Who stretches out the heavens and lays the foundation of the earth and forms the spirit of man within him:" 
Zechariah12:2 Behold, I am about to make Jerusalem a cup or bowl of reeling to all the peoples round about, and in the siege against Jerusalem will there also be a siege against and upon Judah." 
Zechariah12:3 And in that day I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all peoples; all who lift it or burden themselves with it shall be sorely wounded. And all the nations of the earth shall come and gather together against it. 
Zechariah12:4 In that day, says the Lord, I will smite every horse [of the armies that contend against Jerusalem] with terror and panic and his rider with madness; and I will open My eyes and regard with favor the house of Judah and will smite every horse of the opposing nations with blindness." 
Zechariah12:5 And the chiefs of Judah shall say in their hearts, The inhabitants of Jerusalem are our strength in the Lord of hosts, their God." 
Zechariah12:6 In that day will I make the chiefs of Judah like a big, blazing pot among [sticks of] wood and like a flaming torch among sheaves [of grain], and they shall devour all the peoples round about, on the right hand and on the left; and they of Jerusalem shall yet again dwell and sit securely in their own place, in Jerusalem." 
Zechariah12:7 And the Lord shall save and give victory to the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not be magnified and exalted above Judah." 
Zechariah12:8 In that day will the Lord guard and defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and he who is [spiritually] feeble and stumbles among them in that day [of persecution] shall become [strong and noble] like David; and the house of David [shall maintain its supremacy] like God, like the Angel of the Lord Who is before them." 
Zechariah12:9 And it shall be in that day that I will make it My aim to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. 
Zechariah12:10 And I will pour out upon the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the Spirit of grace or unmerited favor and supplication. And they shall look [earnestly] upon Me Whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for Him as one mourns for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for Him as one who is in bitterness for his firstborn. [John 19:37; Rev. 1:7.]" 
Zechariah12:11 In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of [the city of] Hadadrimmon in the Valley of Megiddo [over beloved King Josiah]. [II Chron. 35:22-25.]" 
Zechariah12:12 And the land shall mourn, every family apart: the [kingly] family of the house of David apart and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan [David's son] apart and their wives apart;" 
Zechariah12:13 The [priestly] family of the house of Levi apart and their wives apart; the family of Shimei [grandson of Levi] apart and their wives apart; 
Zechariah12:14 All the families that are left, each by itself, and their wives by themselves [each with an overwhelming individual sorrow over having blindly rejected their unrecognized Messiah]." 
Zechariah13:1 IN THAT day there shall be a fountain opened for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem [to cleanse them from] sin and uncleanness. 
Zechariah13:2 And in that day, says the Lord of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, and they shall no more be remembered; and also I will remove from the land the [false] prophets and the unclean spirit." 
Zechariah13:3 And if anyone again appears [falsely] as a prophet, then his father and his mother who bore him shall say to him, You shall not live, for you speak lies in the name of the Lord; and his father and his mother who bore him shall thrust him through when he prophesies." 
Zechariah13:4 And in that day the [false] prophets shall each be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies, nor will he wear a hairy or rough garment to deceive," 
Zechariah13:5 But he will [deny his identity and] say, I am no prophet. I am a tiller of the ground, for I have been made a bond servant from my youth." 
Zechariah13:6 And one shall say to him, What are these wounds on your breast or between your hands? Then he will answer, Those with which I was wounded [when disciplined] in the house of my [loving] friends." 
Zechariah13:7 Awake, O sword, against My shepherd and against the man who is My associate, says the Lord of hosts; smite the shepherd and the sheep [of the flock] shall be scattered, and I will turn back My hand and stretch it out again upon the little ones [of the flock]. [Matt. 26:31, 32.]" 
Zechariah13:8 And in all the land, says the Lord, two-thirds shall be cut off and perish, but one-third shall be left alive. [Hos. 2:23; Rom. 11:5.]" 
Zechariah13:9 And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined and will test them as gold is tested. They will call on My name, and I will hear and answer them. I will say, It is My people; and they will say, The Lord is my God." 
Zechariah14:1 BEHOLD, A day of the Lord is coming when the spoil [taken from you] shall be divided [among the victors] in the midst of you." 
Zechariah14:2 For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken and the houses rifled and the women ravished; and half of the city shall go into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city." 
Zechariah14:3 Then shall the Lord go forth and fight against those nations, as when He fought in the day of battle." 
Zechariah14:4 And His feet shall stand in that day upon the Mount of Olives, which lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from the east to the west by a very great valley; and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north and half of it toward the south. [Isa. 64:1, 2.]" 
Zechariah14:5 And you shall flee by the valley of My mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal, and you shall flee as you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah; and the Lord my [Zechariah's] God shall come, and all the holy ones [saints and angels] with Him. [Amos 1:1; Col. 3:4; I Thess. 4:14; Jude 14, 15.]" 
Zechariah14:5 And you shall flee by the valley of My mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal, and you shall flee as you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah; and the Lord my [Zechariah's] God shall come, and all the holy ones [saints and angels] with Him. [Amos 1:1; Col. 3:4; I Thess. 4:14; Jude 14, 15.]" 
Zechariah14:6 And it shall come to pass in that day that there shall not be light; the glorious and bright ones [the heavenly bodies] shall be darkened. 
Zechariah14:7 But it shall be one continuous day, known to the Lord,not day and not night, but at evening time there shall be light." 
Zechariah14:8 And it shall be in that day that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern [Dead] Sea and half of them to the western [Mediterranean] Sea; in summer and in winter shall it be." 
Zechariah14:9 And the Lord shall be King over all the earth; in that day the Lord shall be one [in the recognition and worship of men] and His name one. 
Zechariah14:10 All the land shall be turned into a plain from Geba to Rimmon, [the Rimmon that is] south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem shall remain lifted up on its site and dwell in its place, from Benjamin's gate to the place of the First Gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the king's winepresses." 
Zechariah14:11 And it shall be inhabited, for there shall be no more curse or ban of utter destruction, but Jerusalem shall dwell securely. [Rev. 22:3.]" 
Zechariah14:12 And this shall be the plague wherewith the Lord will smite all the peoples that have warred against Jerusalem: their flesh shall rot away while they stand upon their feet and their eyes shall corrode away in their sockets and their tongue shall decay away in their mouth. 
Zechariah14:13 And in that day there shall be a great confusion, discomfiture, and panic among them from the Lord; and they shall seize each his neighbor's hand, and the hand of the one shall be raised against the hand of the other." 
Zechariah14:14 And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem, and the wealth of all the nations round about shall be gathered together,gold and silver and apparel in great abundance." 
Zechariah14:15 And as that plague on men, so shall be the plague on the horse, on the mule, on the camel, on the donkey, and on all the livestock and beasts that may be in those camps." 
Zechariah14:16 And everyone who is left of all the nations which came against Jerusalem shall even go up from year to year to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the Feast of Tabernacles or Booths." 
Zechariah14:17 And it shall be that whoso of the families of the earth shall not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, upon them there shall be no rain." 
Zechariah14:18 And if the family of Egypt does not go up to Jerusalem and present themselves, upon them there shall be no rain, but there shall be the plague with which the Lord will smite the nations that go not up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles." 
Zechariah14:19 This shall be the consequent punishment of the sin of Egypt and the consequent punishment of the sin of all the nations that do not go up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles. 
Zechariah14:20 In that day there shall be [written] upon the [little] bells on the horses, HOLY TO THE LORD, and the pots in the Lord's house shall be holy to the Lord like the bowls before the altar." 
Zechariah14:21 Yes, every pot in all the houses of Jerusalem and in Judah shall be dedicated and holy to the Lord of hosts, and all who sacrifice may come and take of them and boil their sacrifices in them [and traders in such wares will no longer be seen at the temple]. And in that day there shall be no more a Canaanite [that is, any godless or unclean person, whether Jew or Gentile] in the house of the Lord of hosts. [Eph. 2:19-22.]" 
Malachi1:1 THE BURDEN or oracle (the thing to be lifted up) of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi [My messenger]. 
Malachi1:2 I have loved you, says the Lord. Yet you say, How and in what way have You loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? says the Lord; yet I loved Jacob (Israel)," 
Malachi1:3 But [in comparison with the degree of love I have for Jacob] I have hated Esau [Edom] and have laid waste his mountains, and his heritage I have given to the jackals of the wilderness. [Rom. 9:13, 16.]" 
Malachi1:4 Though [impoverished] Edom should say, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places,thus says the Lord of hosts: They may build, but I will tear and throw down; and men will call them the Wicked Country, the people against whom the Lord has indignation forever." 
Malachi1:5 Your own eyes shall see this and you shall say, The Lord is great and will be magnified over and beyond the border of Israel! [Isa. 34; 63:1-6; Jer. 49:7-22; Ezek. 25:12-14; Obad. 1.]" 
Malachi1:6 A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a Father, where is My honor? And if I am a Master, where is the [reverent] fear due Me? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests, who despise My name. You say, How and in what way have we despised Your name?" 
Malachi1:7 By offering polluted food upon My altar. And you ask, How have we polluted it and profaned You? By thinking that the table of the Lord is contemptible and may be despised." 
Malachi1:8 When you [priests] offer blind [animals] for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you offer the lame and the sick, is it not evil? Present such a thing [a blind or lame or sick animal] now to your governor [in payment of your taxes, and see what will happen]. Will he be pleased with you? Or will he receive you graciously? says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi1:9 Now then, I [Malachi] beg [you priests], entreat God [earnestly] that He will be gracious to us. With such a gift from your hand [as a defective animal for sacrifice], will He accept it or show favor to any of you? says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi1:10 Oh, that there were even one among you [whose duty it is to minister to Me] who would shut the doors, that you might not kindle fire on My altar to no purpose [an empty, futile, fruitless pretense]! I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from your hand." 
Malachi1:11 For from the rising of the sun to its setting My name shall be great among the nations, and in every place incense shall be offered to My name, and indeed a pure offering; for My name shall be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi1:12 But you [priests] profane it when [by your actions] you say, The table of the Lord is polluted, and the fruit of it, its food, is contemptible and may be despised." 
Malachi1:13 You say also, Behold, what a drudgery and weariness this is! And you have sniffed at it, says the Lord of hosts. And you have brought that which was taken by violence, or the lame or the sick; this you bring as an offering! Shall I accept this from your hand? says the Lord. [Lev. 1:3; Deut. 15:21.]" 
Malachi1:14 But cursed is the [cheating] deceiver who has a male in his flock and vows to offer it, yet sacrifices to the [sovereign] Lord a blemished or diseased thing! For I am a great King, says the Lord of hosts, and My name is terrible and to be [reverently] feared among the nations." 
Malachi2:1 AND NOW, O you priests, this commandment is for you." 
Malachi2:2 If you will not hear and if you will not lay it to heart to give glory to My name, says the Lord of hosts, then I will send the curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings; yes, I have already turned them to curses because you do not lay it to heart." 
Malachi2:3 Behold, I will rebuke your seed [grain,which will prevent due harvest], and I will spread the dung from the festival offerings upon your faces, and you shall be taken away with it." 
Malachi2:4 And you shall know, recognize, and understand that I have sent this [new] decree to you priests, to be My [new] covenant with Levi [the priestly tribe], says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi2:5 My covenant [on My part with Levi] was to give him life and peace, because [on his part] of the [reverent and worshipful] fear with which [the priests] would revere Me and stand in awe of My name." 
Malachi2:6 The law of truth was in [Levi's] mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his lips; he walked with Me in peace and uprightness and turned many away from iniquity." 
Malachi2:7 For the priest's lips should guard and keep pure the knowledge [of My law], and the people should seek (inquire for and require) instruction at his mouth; for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi2:8 But you have turned aside out of the way; you have caused many to stumble by your instruction [in the law]; you have corrupted the covenant of Levi [with Me], says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi2:9 Therefore have I also made you despised and abased before all the people, inasmuch as you have not kept My ways but have shown favoritism to persons in your administration of the law [of God]." 
Malachi2:10 Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why then do we deal faithlessly and treacherously each against his brother, profaning the covenant of [God with] our fathers?" 
Malachi2:11 Judah has been faithless and dealt treacherously, and an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah [that is, Jewish men] has profaned the holy sanctuary of the Lord which He loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god [having divorced his Jewish wife]. [Ezra 9:2; Jer. 2:3.]" 
Malachi2:11 Judah has been faithless and dealt treacherously, and an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah [that is, Jewish men] has profaned the holy sanctuary of the Lord which He loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god [having divorced his Jewish wife]. [Ezra 9:2; Jer. 2:3.]" 
Malachi2:12 The Lord will cast out of the tents of Jacob to the last man those who do this [evil thing], the master and the servant [or the pupil] alike, even him who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi2:13 And this you do with double guilt; you cover the altar of the Lord with tears [shed by your unoffending wives, divorced by you that you might take heathen wives], and with [your own] weeping and crying out because the Lord does not regard your offering any more or accept it with favor at your hand." 
Malachi2:14 Yet you ask, Why does He reject it? Because the Lord was witness [to the covenant made at your marriage] between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously and to whom you were faithless. Yet she is your companion and the wife of your covenant [made by your marriage vows]." 
Malachi2:15 And did not God make [you and your wife] one [flesh]? Did not One make you and preserve your spirit alive? And why [did God make you two] one? Because He sought a godly offspring [from your union]. Therefore take heed to yourselves, and let no one deal treacherously and be faithless to the wife of his youth." 
Malachi2:16 For the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I hate divorce and marital separation and him who covers his garment [his wife] with violence. Therefore keep a watch upon your spirit [that it may be controlled by My Spirit], that you deal not treacherously and faithlessly [with your marriage mate]." 
Malachi2:17 You have wearied the Lord with your words. Yet you say, In what way have we wearied Him? [You do it when by your actions] you say, Everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord and He delights in them. Or [by asking], Where is the God of justice?" 
Malachi3:1 BEHOLD, I send My messenger, and he shall prepare the way before Me. And the Lord [the Messiah], Whom you seek, will suddenly come to His temple; the Messenger or Angel of the covenant, Whom you desire, behold, He shall come, says the Lord of hosts. [Matt. 11:10; Luke 1:13-17, 76.]" 
Malachi3:2 But who can endure the day of His coming? And who can stand when He appears? For He is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap; [Rev. 6:12-17.] 
Malachi3:3 He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and He will purify the priests, the sons of Levi, and refine them like gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord offerings in righteousness." 
Malachi3:4 Then will the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old and as in ancient years. 
Malachi3:5 Then I will draw near to you for judgment; I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against the false swearers, and against those who oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, and who turn aside the temporary resident from his right and fear not Me, says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi3:6 For I am the Lord, I do not change; that is why you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed." 
Malachi3:7 Even from the days of your fathers you have turned aside from My ordinances and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, How shall we return?" 
Malachi3:8 Will a man rob or defraud God? Yet you rob and defraud Me. But you say, In what way do we rob or defraud You? [You have withheld your] tithes and offerings." 
Malachi3:9 You are cursed with the curse, for you are robbing Me, even this whole nation. [Lev. 26:14-17.]" 
Malachi3:10 Bring all the tithes (the whole tenth of your income) into the storehouse, that there may be food in My house, and prove Me now by it, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. [Mal. 2:2.]" 
Malachi3:11 And I will rebuke the devourer [insects and plagues] for your sakes and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground, neither shall your vine drop its fruit before the time in the field, says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi3:12 And all nations shall call you happy and blessed, for you shall be a land of delight, says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi3:13 Your words have been strong and hard against Me, says the Lord. Yet you say, What have we spoken against You?" 
Malachi3:14 You have said, It is useless to serve God, and what profit is it if we keep His ordinances and walk gloomily and as if in mourning apparel before the Lord of hosts?" 
Malachi3:15 And now we consider the proud and arrogant to be happy and favored; evildoers are exalted and prosper; yes, and when they test God, they escape [unpunished]." 
Malachi3:16 Then those who feared the Lord talked often one to another; and the Lord listened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before Him of those who reverenced and worshipfully feared the Lord and who thought on His name." 
Malachi3:17 And they shall be Mine, says the Lord of hosts, in that day when I publicly recognize and openly declare them to be My jewels (My special possession, My peculiar treasure). And I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him." 
Malachi3:18 Then shall you return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him who serves God and him who does not serve Him." 
Malachi4:1 FOR BEHOLD, the day comes that shall burn like an oven, and all the proud and arrogant, yes, and all that do wickedly and are lawless, shall be stubble; the day that comes shall burn them up, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. [Isa. 5:21-25; Matt. 3:12.]" 
Malachi4:2 But unto you who revere and worshipfully fear My name shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with healing in His wings and His beams, and you shall go forth and gambol like calves [released] from the stall and leap for joy." 
Malachi4:3 And you shall tread down the lawless and wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, says the Lord of hosts." 
Malachi4:4 [Earnestly] remember the law of Moses, My servant, the statutes and the ordinances which I commanded him on [Mount] Horeb [to give] to all Israel." 
Malachi4:5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and terrible day of the Lord comes. [Matt. 11:14; 17:10-13.]" 
Malachi4:6 And he shall turn and reconcile the hearts of the [estranged] fathers to the [ungodly] children, and the hearts of the [rebellious] children to [the piety of] their fathers [a reconciliation produced by repentance of the ungodly], lest I come and smite the land with a curse and a ban of utter destruction. [Luke 1:17.]" 
Matthew1:5 Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed the father of Jesse," 
Matthew1:6 Jesse the father of King David, King David the father of Solomon, whose mother had been the wife of Uriah, [Ruth 4:18-22; I Chron. 2:13-15.]" 
Matthew1:21 She will bear a Son, and you shall call His name Jesus [the Greek form of the Hebrew Joshua, which means Savior], for He will save His people from their sins [that is, prevent them from failing and missing the true end and scope of life, which is God]." 
Matthew2:17 Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah: 
Matthew3:3 This is he who was mentioned by the prophet Isaiah when he said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness (shouting in the desert), Prepare the road for the Lord, make His highways straight (level, direct). [Isa. 40:3.]" 
Matthew4:14 That what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be brought to pass: 
Matthew8:17 And thus He fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, He Himself took [in order to carry away] our weaknesses and infirmities and bore away our diseases. [Isa. 53:4.]" 
Matthew12:17 This was in fulfillment of what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah," 
Matthew12:39 But He replied to them, An evil and adulterous generation (a generation morally unfaithful to God) seeks and demands a sign; but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 For even as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. [Jonah 1:17.]" 
Matthew12:41 The men of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, Someone more and greater than Jonah is here! [Jonah 3:5.]" 
Matthew13:14 In them indeed is the process of fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah, which says: You shall indeed hear and hear but never grasp and understand; and you shall indeed look and look but never see and perceive." 
Matthew15:7 You pretenders (hypocrites)! Admirably and truly did Isaiah prophesy of you when he said: 
Matthew16:4 A wicked and morally unfaithful generation craves a sign, but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. Then He left them and went away. [Jonah 3:4, 5.]" 
Matthew16:14 And they answered, Some say John the Baptist; others say Elijah; and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets." 
Matthew16:17 Then Jesus answered him, Blessed (happy, fortunate, and to be envied) are you, Simon Bar-Jonah. For flesh and blood [men] have not revealed this to you, but My Father Who is in heaven." 
Matthew19:26 But Jesus looked at them and said, With men this is impossible, but all things are possible with God. [Gen. 18:14; Job 42:2.]" 
Matthew23:35 So that upon your heads may come all the blood of the righteous (those who correspond to the divine standard of right) shed on earth, from the blood of the righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar [of burnt offering]. [Gen. 4:8; II Chron. 24:21.]" 
Matthew24:15 So when you see the appalling sacrilege [the abomination that astonishes and makes desolate], spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the Holy Place,let the reader take notice and ponder and consider and heed [this],[Dan. 9:27; 11:31; 12:11.]" 
Matthew24:21 For then there will be great tribulation (affliction, distress, and oppression) such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now,no, and never will be [again]. [Dan. 12:1; Joel 2:2.]" 
Matthew24:28 Wherever there is a fallen body (a corpse), there the vultures (or eagles) will flock together. [Job 39:30.]" 
Matthew24:29 Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not shed its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. [Isa. 13:10; 34:4; Joel 2:10, 11; Zeph. 1:15.]" 
Matthew27:9 Then were fulfilled the words spoken by Jeremiah the prophet when he said, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of Him on Whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel, [Zech. 11:12, 13.]" 
Mark1:2 Just as it is written in the prophet Isaiah: Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will make ready Your way,[Mal. 3:1.]" 
Mark7:6 But He said to them, Excellently and truly [so that there will be no room for blame] did Isaiah prophesy of you, the pretenders and hypocrites, as it stands written: These people [constantly] honor Me with their lips, but their hearts hold off and are far distant from Me." 
Mark13:14 But when you see the abomination of desolation mentioned by Daniel the prophet standing where it ought not to be,[and] let the one who reads take notice and consider and understand and heed [this],then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. [Dan. 9:27; 11:31; 12:11.] 
Luke3:4 As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, The voice of one crying in the wilderness [shouting in the desert]: Prepare the way of the Lord, make His beaten paths straight." 
Luke3:25 The son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai," 
Luke3:25 The son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai," 
Luke3:38 The son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. [Gen. 5:3-32; 11:10-26; Ruth 4:18-22; I Chron. 1:1-4, 24-28; 2:1-15.]" 
Luke4:17 And there was handed to Him [the roll of] the book of the prophet Isaiah. He opened (unrolled) the book and found the place where it was written, [Isa. 61:1, 2.]" 
Luke11:29 Now [as] the crowds gathered even more, He began to be saying, ""This generation is evil. It seeks a sign, and a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet." 
Luke11:30 For just as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so also will the Son of Humanity be to this generation. [Jonah 1:17]" 
Luke11:32 Men, Ninevites, will rise up in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at [or, because of] the proclamation of Jonah. And listen! [One] greater than Jonah [is] here! [Jonah 3:5]" 
Luke12:53 A father will be divided against a son and a son against a father, a mother against a daughter and a daughter against a mother, a mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law."" [see Micah 7:6]" 
Luke20:42 For David himself says in [the] Book of Psalms, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand" 
Luke21:25 And there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars; and upon the earth [there will be] distress (trouble and anguish) of nations in bewilderment and perplexity [without resources, left wanting, embarrassed, in doubt, not knowing which way to turn] at the roaring (the echo) of the tossing of the sea, [Isa. 13:10; Joel 2:10; Zeph. 1:15.]" 
Luke22:31 Simon, Simon (Peter), listen! Satan has asked excessively that [all of] you be given up to him [out of the power and keeping of God], that he might sift [all of] you like grain, [Job 1:6-12; Amos 9:9.]" 
Luke22:31 Simon, Simon (Peter), listen! Satan has asked excessively that [all of] you be given up to him [out of the power and keeping of God], that he might sift [all of] you like grain, [Job 1:6-12; Amos 9:9.]" 
Luke24:44 Then He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you: everything which is written concerning Me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled." 
John1:23 He said, I am the voice of one crying aloud in the wilderness [the voice of one shouting in the desert], Prepare the way of the Lord [level, straighten out, the path of the Lord], as the prophet Isaiah said. [Isa. 40:3.]" 
John12:38 So that what Isaiah the prophet said was fulfilled: Lord, who has believed our report and our message? And to whom has the arm (the power) of the Lord been shown (unveiled and revealed)? [Isa. 53:1.]" 
John12:39 Therefore they could not believe [they were unable to believe]. For Isaiah has also said," 
John12:41 Isaiah said this because he saw His glory and spoke of Him. [Isa. 6:9, 10.]" 
Acts1:20 For in the book of Psalms it is written, Let his place of residence become deserted and gloomy, and let there be no one to live in it; and [again], Let another take his position or overseership. [Ps. 69:25; 109:8.]" 
Acts2:16 But [instead] this is [the beginning of] what was spoken through the prophet Joel: 
Acts2:21 And it shall be that whoever shall call upon the name of the Lord [invoking, adoring, and worshiping the Lord,Christ] shall be saved. [Joel 2:28-32.]" 
Acts2:39 For the promise [of the Holy Spirit] is to and for you and your children, and to and for all that are far away, [even] to and for as many as the Lord our God invites and bids to come to Himself. [Isa. 57:19; Joel 2:32.]" 
Acts7:43 [No!] You took up the tent (the portable temple) of Moloch and carried it [with you], and the star of the god Rephan, the images which you [yourselves] made that you might worship them; and I will remove you [carrying you away into exile] beyond Babylon. [Amos 5:25-27.]" 
Acts7:45 Our forefathers in turn brought it [this tent of witness] in [with them into the land] with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations which God drove out before the face of our forefathers. [So it remained here] until the time of David, [Deut. 32:49; Josh. 3:14-17.]" 
Acts8:28 And he was [now] returning, and sitting in his chariot he was reading the book of the prophet Isaiah." 
Acts8:30 Accordingly Philip, running up to him, heard [the man] reading the prophet Isaiah and asked, Do you really understand what you are reading?" 
Acts15:18 Says the Lord, Who has been making these things known from the beginning of the world. [Isa. 45:21; Jer. 12:15; Amos 9:11, 12.]" 
Acts28:25 And as they disagreed among themselves, they began to leave, [but not before] Paul had added one statement [more]: The Holy Spirit was right in saying through Isaiah the prophet to your forefathers:" 
Romans9:25 Just as He says in Hosea, Those who were not My people I will call My people, and her who was not beloved [I will call] My beloved. [Hos. 2:23.]" 
Romans9:27 And Isaiah calls out (solemnly cries aloud) over Israel: Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, only the remnant (a small part of them) will be saved [from perdition, condemnation, judgment]!" 
Romans9:29 It is as Isaiah predicted, If the Lord of hosts had not left us a seed [from which to propagate descendants], we [Israel] would have fared like Sodom and have been made like Gomorrah. [Isa. 1:9.]" 
Romans10:13 For everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord [invoking Him as Lord] will be saved. [Joel 2:32.] 
Romans10:16 But they have not all heeded the Gospel; for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed (had faith in) what he has heard from us? [Isa. 53:1.]" 
Romans10:20 Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek Me; I have shown (revealed) Myself to those who did not [consciously] ask for Me. [Isa. 65:1.]" 
Romans15:12 And further Isaiah says, There shall be a Sprout from the Root of Jesse, He Who rises to rule over the Gentiles; in Him shall the Gentiles hope. [Isa. 11:1, 10; Rev. 5:5; 22:16.]" 
1Corinthians3:15 But if any person's work is burned up [under the test], he will suffer the loss [of it all, losing his reward], though he himself will be saved, but only as [one who has passed] through fire. [Job 23:10.]" 
1Corinthians3:19 For this world's wisdom is foolishness (absurdity and stupidity) with God, for it is written, He lays hold of the wise in their [own] craftiness; [Job 5:13.]" 
2Corinthians12:7 And to keep me from being puffed up and too much elated by the exceeding greatness (preeminence) of these revelations, there was given me a thorn (a splinter) in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to rack and buffet and harass me, to keep me from being excessively exalted. [Job. 2:6.]" 
Hebrews4:2 For indeed we have had the glad tidings [Gospel of God] proclaimed to us just as truly as they [the Israelites of old did when the good news of deliverance from bondage came to them]; but the message they heard did not benefit them, because it was not mixed with faith (with the leaning of the entire personality on God in absolute trust and confidence in His power, wisdom, and goodness) by those who heard it; neither were they united in faith with the ones [Joshua and Caleb] who heard (did believe)." 
Hebrews4:8 [This mention of a rest was not a reference to their entering into Canaan.] For if Joshua had given them rest, He [God] would not speak afterward about another day." 
James5:11 You know how we call those blessed (happy) who were steadfast [who endured]. You have heard of the endurance of Job, and you have seen the Lord's [purpose and how He richly blessed him in the] end, inasmuch as the Lord is full of pity and compassion and tenderness and mercy. [Job 1:21, 22; 42:10; Ps. 111:4.]" 
Revelation6:12 When He [the Lamb] broke open the sixth seal, I looked, and there was a great earthquake; and the sun grew black as sackcloth of hair, [the full disc of] the moon became like blood. [Joel 2:10, 31.]" 
Revelation6:17 For the great day of His wrath (vengeance, retribution, indignation) has come, and who is able to stand before it? [Joel 2:11; Mal. 3:2.]" 
Revelation9:2 He opened the long shaft of the Abyss (the bottomless pit), and smoke like the smoke of a huge furnace puffed out of the long shaft, so that the sun and the atmosphere were darkened by the smoke from the long shaft. [Gen. 19:28; Exod. 19:18; Joel 2:10.]" 
Revelation9:6 And in those days people will seek death and will not find it; and they will yearn to die, but death evades and flees from them. [Job 3:21.]" 
Revelation9:7 The locusts resembled horses equipped for battle. On their heads was something like golden crowns. Their faces resembled the faces of people. [Joel 2:4.] 
Revelation9:8 They had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were like lions' teeth. [Joel 1:6.]" 
Revelation9:9 Their breastplates (scales) resembled breastplates made of iron, and the [whirring] noise made by their wings was like the roar of a vast number of horse-drawn chariots going at full speed into battle. [Joel 2:5.]" 
Revelation12:10 Then I heard a strong (loud) voice in heaven, saying, Now it has come,the salvation and the power and the kingdom (the dominion, the reign) of our God, and the power (the sovereignty, the authority) of His Christ (the Messiah); for the accuser of our brethren, he who keeps bringing before our God charges against them day and night, has been cast out! [Job 1:9-11.]" 
Revelation14:15 And another angel came out of the temple sanctuary, calling with a mighty voice to Him Who was sitting upon the cloud, Put in Your scythe and reap, for the hour has arrived to gather the harvest, for the earth's crop is fully ripened. [Joel 3:13.]" 
Revelation14:20 And [the grapes in] the winepress were trodden outside the city, and blood poured from the winepress, [reaching] as high as horses' bridles, for a distance of 1,600 stadia (about 200 miles). [Joel 3:13.]" 
