Genesis1:1 When God created the heavens and the earth," 
Genesis1:2 the earth was completely formless and empty, with nothing but darkness draped over the deep. God’s Spirit hovered over the face of the waters." 
Genesis1:3 And then God announced, “Let there be light,” and light burst forth!" 
Genesis1:4 And God saw the light as pleasing and beautiful; he used the light to dispel the darkness. 
Genesis1:5 God called the light “Day,” and the darkness “Night.” And so, evening gave way to morning—the first day." 
Genesis1:6 And God said, “Let there be a dome between the waters to separate the water above from the water below.”" 
Genesis1:7 He made the dome and called it “Sky,” and separated the water above the dome from the water below the dome. Evening gave way to morning—day two." 
Genesis1:8  
Genesis1:9 And God said, “Let the water beneath the sky be gathered into one place, and let the dry ground appear.” And so it happened." 
Genesis1:10 God called the dry ground “Land,” and the gathered waters he called “Seas.” And God saw the beauty of his creation, and he was very pleased." 
Genesis1:11 Then God said, “Let the land burst forth with growth: plants that bear seeds of their own kind, and every variety of fruit tree, each with power to multiply from its own seed.” And so it happened." 
Genesis1:12 The land flourished with grasses, every variety of seed-bearing plant, and trees bearing fruit with their seeds in them. And God loved what he saw, for it was beautiful." 
Genesis1:13 Evening gave way to morning—day three. 
Genesis1:14 And God said, “Let there be bright lights to shine in space to bathe the earth with their light. Let them serve as signs to separate the day from night, and signify the days, seasons, and years.” And so it happened." 
Genesis1:15  
Genesis1:16 God made two great lights: the brighter light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night. He also spread the tapestry of shining stars 
Genesis1:17 and set them all in the sky to illuminate the earth," 
Genesis1:18 to rule over the day and to rule over the night, and to separate the light from darkness. God loved what he saw, for it was beautiful." 
Genesis1:19 Evening gave way to morning—day four. 
Genesis1:20 God said, “ Let there be life! Let the waters swarm with sea life, and let the sky be filled with soaring birds of every kind.”" 
Genesis1:21 God created huge sea creatures and every living creature that moves of every kind—swarming in the water and flying in the sky, according to their species. God loved what he saw, for it was beautiful." 
Genesis1:22 God blessed them, saying, “Reproduce and be fruitful! Fill the waters of the sea with life, and the earth with flying birds!”" 
Genesis1:23 Evening gave way to morning—day five. 
Genesis1:24 God said, “Let the earth produce every class and kind of living creature: livestock, crawling things, wild animals, each after its kind.” And so it happened." 
Genesis1:25 God made the wild animals according to their species, livestock according to their species, and all the creatures that creep along the ground according to their species. And God loved what he saw, for it was beautiful." 
Genesis1:26 Then God said, “Let us make a man and a woman in our image to be like us. Let them reign over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, the livestock, over the creatures that creep along the ground, and over the wild animals.”" 
Genesis1:27 So God created man and woman and shaped them with his image inside them. In his own beautiful image, he created his masterpiece. Yes, male and female he created them." 
Genesis1:28 And God blessed them in his love, saying, “Reproduce and be fruitful! Populate the earth and subdue it! Reign over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, and every creature that lives on earth.”" 
Genesis1:29 And God said, “I give you every seed-bearing plant growing throughout the earth, vegetables, and every fruit-bearing tree with its seed within itself. They will be your food." 
Genesis1:30 They will also be food for every animal and bird, and every creature that moves on the ground—every creature with the breath of life.” And so it happened." 
Genesis1:31 God surveyed all he had made and said, “I love it!” For it pleased him greatly. Evening gave way to morning—day six." 
Genesis2:1 And so the creation of the heavens and the earth were completed in all their vast array. 
Genesis2:2 By the seventh day, God had completed creating his masterpiece, so on the seventh day, he rested from all his work." 
Genesis2:3 So God blessed the seventh day and made it sacred, because on it, he paused to rest from all his work of creation." 
Genesis2:4 This is the account of the heavens and the earth after they were created. At the time Yahweh -God created earth and heaven," 
Genesis2:5 there was yet no vegetation, grains of the field, or shrubs sprouting on the earth, for there was no one to cultivate the land, and Yahweh -God had not yet sent rain." 
Genesis2:6 In those days a mist arose from the soil and watered the whole face of the ground. 
Genesis2:7 Yahweh -God scooped up a lump of soil, sculpted a man, and blew into his nostrils the breath of life. The man came alive—a living soul!" 
Genesis2:8 Then Yahweh -God planted a lush garden paradise in the East, in the Land of Delight, and there he placed the man he had formed." 
Genesis2:9 Yahweh -God made all kinds of beautiful trees to grow there—fruitful trees to satisfy the taste. In the middle of the garden, he planted the Tree of Life and the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil." 
Genesis2:10 Flowing from the Land of Delight was a river to water the garden, and from there, it divided into four branches." 
Genesis2:11 The first river, Overflowing Increase, encircles the gold-laden land of Havilah." 
Genesis2:12 The gold of that land is pure, with many pearls and onyx found there." 
Genesis2:13 The second river, Gushing, flows through the entire land of Cush." 
Genesis2:14 The third river, Swift Flowing, flows east of Assyria. And the fourth is the river Fruitfulness." 
Genesis2:15 Yahweh -God took the man and placed him in the garden of Eden to work and watch over it. 
Genesis2:16 And Yahweh -God commanded him, “You may freely eat of every fruit of the garden." 
Genesis2:17 But you must not eat of the Tree that gives the knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat from it you will most certainly die.”" 
Genesis2:18 Then Yahweh -God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. Therefore, I will fashion a suitable partner to be his help and strength.”" 
Genesis2:19 For Yahweh -God had formed from the soil every animal of the field and every bird of the air and brought them before the man to see what he would call them. So, whatever the man called the living creature, that was its name." 
Genesis2:20 He gave names to all the various cattle, birds, and wild animals, but Adam could not find a fitting companion that corresponded to him." 
Genesis2:21 So Yahweh -God caused Adam to fall into a deep trance, and while he slept, he took a portion of Adam’s side and closed its place with flesh." 
Genesis2:22 Then Yahweh -God used the portion of Adam’s side and skillfully crafted a woman and presented her to him. 
Genesis2:23 Then Adam said: “At last! One like me! Her bones were formed from my bones, and her flesh from my flesh! This one will be called ‘Woman,’ for she was taken from man.”" 
Genesis2:24 For this reason, a man leaves his father and his mother to be unselfishly attached to his wife. They become one flesh as a new family!" 
Genesis2:25 The man and his wife felt no shame, unaware that they were both naked." 
Genesis3:1 Now the snake was the most cunning of all living beings that Yahweh -God had made. He deviously asked the woman, “Did God really tell you, ‘You must not eat fruit from any tree of the garden—?’ ”" 
Genesis3:2 But the woman interrupted, “—We may eat the fruit of any tree in the garden," 
Genesis3:3 except the tree in the center of the garden. God told us, ‘Don’t eat its fruit, or even touch it, or you’ll die.’ ”" 
Genesis3:4 But the snake said to her, “You certainly won’t die." 
Genesis3:5 God knows that the moment you eat it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing both good and evil.”" 
Genesis3:6 When the woman saw that the tree produced delicious fruit, delightful to look upon, and desirable to give one insight, she took its fruit and ate it. She gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he also ate it." 
Genesis3:7 Immediately, their eyes were opened, and they realized they were naked, vulnerable, and ashamed; so they sewed fig leaves together for coverings." 
Genesis3:8 Then Adam and his wife heard the sound of Yahweh -God passing through the garden in the breeze of the day. So, they hid among the trees concealing themselves from the face of Yahweh -God." 
Genesis3:9 Then Yahweh -God called Adam’s name and asked, “Where are you?”" 
Genesis3:10 Adam answered, “I heard your powerful presence moving in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked; so I hid.”" 
Genesis3:11 “Who told you that you were naked?” God said. “Did you eat the fruit of the tree that I commanded you not to eat?” 
Genesis3:12 Adam pointed to the woman and said, “The woman you placed alongside me— she gave me fruit from the tree, and I ate it.”" 
Genesis3:13 So Yahweh -God said to the woman, “What have you done?” The woman pointed to the snake and said, “The shining snake tricked me, and I ate.”" 
Genesis3:14 Yahweh -God then said to the snake, “Because you have done this, you are cursed above every wild animal, condemned above every creature of the field! You will slither on your belly and eat dust all the days of your life!" 
Genesis3:15 And I will place great hostility between you and the woman, and between her seed and yours. He will crush your head as you crush his heel.”" 
Genesis3:16 Then God said to the woman, “I will cause your labor pains in childbirth to be intensified; with pain you will give birth to children. You will desire to dominate your husband, but he will want to dominate you.”" 
Genesis3:17 And to Adam he said, “Because you obeyed your wife instead of me, and you ate from the forbidden tree when I had commanded you not to, the ground will be cursed because of you. You will eat of it through painful toil all the days of your life." 
Genesis3:18 It will sprout weeds and thorns, and you will eat the plants of the field." 
Genesis3:19 You will painfully toil and sweat to produce food to eat, until your body—taken from the ground—returns to the ground. For you are from dust, and to dust you will return.”" 
Genesis3:20 The man named his wife Eve— “Life-Giver,” because she would become the mother of every human being." 
Genesis3:21 Yahweh -God made garments from animal skins to clothe Adam and Eve. 
Genesis3:22 And Yahweh -God said, “The man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil. And now he might take in his hands fruit from the Tree of Life, and eat it, and live forever.”" 
Genesis3:23 Therefore, Yahweh -God expelled him from Eden’s paradise to till the ground from which he was taken." 
Genesis3:24 He drove them out of the garden, and placed fearsome angelic sentries east of the garden of Eden, with a turning fiery sword to guard the way to the Tree of Life." 
Genesis4:1 Now Adam had slept with his wife, and she conceived and bore a son named Cain. She said, “By the grace of Yahweh I have birthed a man!”" 
Genesis4:2 Then later, she gave birth to Cain’s brother Abel. Abel grew up to be a shepherd, and Cain became a farmer, working the ground." 
Genesis4:3 After some time passed, Cain presented an offering to Yahweh from the produce of the land." 
Genesis4:4 Abel also brought his offering, from among the finest of the firstborn of his flocks. Yahweh was very pleased with Abel and accepted his offering," 
Genesis4:5 but with Cain and his offering, Yahweh was not pleased, making Cain very furious and resentful." 
Genesis4:6 So Yahweh said to Cain, “Why are you so angry and bothered?" 
Genesis4:7 If you offer what is right, won’t you be accepted? But if you refuse to offer what is right, sin, the predator, is crouching in wait outside the door of your heart. It desires to have you, yet you must be its master.”" 
Genesis4:8 One day Cain said to his brother, “Let’s go out into the field.” When they arrived at the field, Cain rose and attacked and killed his brother Abel." 
Genesis4:9 Then Yahweh said to Cain, “Where is your brother Abel?” He answered, “How do I know? Am I my brother’s keeper?”" 
Genesis4:10 Yahweh said, “Listen—the voice of your brother’s blood is crying out to me from the ground! What have you done?" 
Genesis4:11 Now you are banished from the land, from the very ground that drank your brother’s blood from your hand!" 
Genesis4:12 When you try to cultivate the ground it will no longer produce crops for you; and you will be a fugitive, a homeless wanderer!”" 
Genesis4:13 Cain said to Yahweh, “My punishment is more than I can bear!" 
Genesis4:14 Look—you’ve thrown me off the land today, and now I must hide from your presence. As a fugitive and wanderer on the earth, anyone who meets me may choose to kill me!”" 
Genesis4:15 Yahweh responded, “Not so! If anyone kills you, I promise the seven-fold vengeance of Cain will be released upon him!” So, Yahweh put an identifying sign on Cain as a warning so that no one would dare kill him." 
Genesis4:16 Then Cain left the presence of Yahweh and journeyed to the Land of Wandering, east of Eden." 
Genesis4:17 Cain slept with his wife and she conceived and bore Enoch. Cain was building a city at the time, so he named it the Village of Enoch, after his son." 
Genesis4:18 Enoch’s son was Irad, and Irad’s son was Mehujael, and Mehujael’s son was Methushael, and Methushael’s son was Lamech." 
Genesis4:19 Lamech married two women, Dawn and Dusk." 
Genesis4:20 Dawn gave birth to Jabal, the first of those who lived in tents and raised livestock." 
Genesis4:21 Jabal’s brother was Jubal, the first of musicians who played instruments." 
Genesis4:22 Dusk gave birth to Tubalcain, the first of blacksmiths who forged all kinds of bronze and iron tools. His sister was Naamah." 
Genesis4:23 Lamech boasted to his wives: “Listen to me, Dawn and Dusk! Mark my words, O wives of Lamech! I have killed a man for wounding me, and a young man for bruising me." 
Genesis4:24 If killing Cain costs seven lives, for Lamech, it will cost seventy-seven!”" 
Genesis4:25 Adam slept with his wife again and she bore a son whom she named Seth, meaning “appointed,” for she declared, “God has appointed for me another son to replace Abel, because Cain killed him.”" 
Genesis4:26 After many years Seth had a son named Enosh. During his lifetime, people began to worship Yahweh and pray to him." 
Genesis5:1 When God created human beings he made them in the likeness of God and created them as male and female. After he had created them, he lovingly blessed them and named them “humanity.” So here is the family history of Adam and Eve:" 
Genesis5:2  
Genesis5:3 When Adam was one hundred and thirty, he fathered a child in his own likeness and in his own image, and he named him Seth." 
Genesis5:4 Adam lived an additional eight hundred years after Seth was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:5 The life span of Adam was nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:6 When Seth was one hundred and five, he fathered Enosh." 
Genesis5:7 Seth lived an additional eight hundred and seven years after Enosh was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:8 The life span of Seth was nine hundred and twelve years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:9 When Enosh was ninety, he fathered Kenan." 
Genesis5:10 Enosh lived an additional eight hundred and fifteen years after Kenan was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:11 The life span of Enosh was nine hundred and five years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:12 When Kenan was seventy, he fathered Mahalalel." 
Genesis5:13 Kenan lived an additional eight hundred and forty years after Mahalalel was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:14 The life span of Kenan was nine hundred and ten years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:15 When Mahalalel was sixty-five, he fathered Jared." 
Genesis5:16 Mahalalel lived an additional eight hundred and thirty years after Jared was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:17 The life span of Mahalalel was eight hundred and ninety-five years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:18 When Jared was one hundred and sixty-two, he fathered Enoch." 
Genesis5:19 Jared lived an additional eight hundred years after Enoch was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:20 The life span of Jared was nine hundred and sixty-two years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:21 When Enoch was sixty-five, he fathered Methuselah." 
Genesis5:22 Enoch walked with God for three hundred years after Methuselah was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:23 Enoch and God walked together as intimate friends; then God took him to himself, and he was seen no more. The life span of Enoch was three hundred and sixty-five years." 
Genesis5:24  
Genesis5:25 When Methuselah was one hundred and eighty-seven, he fathered Lamech." 
Genesis5:26 Methuselah lived an additional seven hundred and eighty-two years after Lamech was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:27 The life span of Methuselah was nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:28 When Lamech was one hundred and eighty-two, he fathered a son" 
Genesis5:29 and named him Noah, saying, “He will relieve us from our hard work and painful toil, and from the ground that Yahweh cursed.”" 
Genesis5:30 Lamech lived an additional five hundred and ninety-five years after Noah was born and had many other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:31 The life span of Lamech was seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died." 
Genesis5:32 After Noah had lived five hundred years, he fathered Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
Genesis6:1 When people began to populate the earth, they had many lovely daughters." 
Genesis6:2 Divine beings found them very appealing, so they took the women they wanted as their wives." 
Genesis6:3 Yahweh said, “My Spirit will not strive with humanity indefinitely, for they are mortal. Their life span will be shortened to only one hundred and twenty years.”" 
Genesis6:4 Back then, and later, there were giants on the earth, who were born as a result of the unholy union of heavenly beings with the human daughters. They were the mighty ones of old, warriors of renown." 
Genesis6:5 But Yahweh saw how extremely wicked humanity had become, for they imagined only evil, for all they thought about was doing evil all the time." 
Genesis6:6 And Yahweh was saddened that he had made humanity, and his heart was filled with pain." 
Genesis6:7 So Yahweh decided, “I will do away with my ruined creation —human beings that I created—people and animals, creeping things and flying birds, for it breaks my heart that I made them!”" 
Genesis6:8 But one man discovered grace before the face of Yahweh: Noah. 
Genesis6:9 This is the story of Noah. Noah was a godly man of integrity, without fault in his generation, and he lived close to God." 
Genesis6:10 Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth." 
Genesis6:11 Injustice and violence filled the world; the earth was ruined in the sight of God," 
Genesis6:12 for he saw how debased the world had become, for everyone was corrupt to the core." 
Genesis6:13 So God said to Noah, “I have decided that all living creatures must die, for their violence has filled the earth, and I will wipe them off the face of the earth!" 
Genesis6:14 Build a boat for yourself—an ark of sturdy timber. And this is how you are to design it: make separate compartments within it, and seal it inside and out with thick tar. The length is to be 450 feet, its width 75 feet, and its height 45 feet." 
Genesis6:15  
Genesis6:16 Cover it with a roof, but leave a gap of eighteen inches at the top for ventilation. Construct a door on the side of the ark, and design it with lower, middle, and upper decks." 
Genesis6:17 I am going to release a great flood that will destroy all life upon the earth, and every breathing thing under heaven will perish—everything on earth will die." 
Genesis6:18 But as for you, I will establish my covenant of friendship, and you will escape destruction by coming into the ark, you and your wife, your sons and their wives." 
Genesis6:19 Bring with you into the ark a pair of every animal, male and female; and they will also be spared." 
Genesis6:20 Different kinds of birds, animals large and small —two of every kind I will send to you to be kept alive." 
Genesis6:21 Also take with you every kind of food, both for you and them.”" 
Genesis6:22 So Noah completed all these preparations and did everything exactly as God had commanded him. 
Genesis7:1 The day came when Yahweh said to Noah, “Come into the ark, you and your entire household, for I have found you to be the only one righteous in my eyes in this generation." 
Genesis7:2 Take with you seven pairs of all the clean animals, both male and female, and one pair of all the unclean animals, both male and female." 
Genesis7:3 Take seven pairs of flying birds of all kinds, male and female, to make sure they survive on the earth." 
Genesis7:4 For in seven days I will send rain and flood the earth for forty days and forty nights. Every living thing that I made I will wipe off the face of the earth.” 
Genesis7:5 Noah obeyed all that Yahweh had commanded him. 
Genesis7:6 Noah was six hundred years old when the great flood came on the earth. 
Genesis7:7 Noah and his wife and his sons and their wives boarded the ark to escape the flood. 
Genesis7:8 Two of each animal, the male and female, clean and unclean, large and small, along with birds and crawling things, entered the ark with Noah as God had commanded." 
Genesis7:9  
Genesis7:10 Then seven days later, massive floodwaters covered the earth." 
Genesis7:11 It started in the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month on the seventeenth day. On that day, all the fountains of the subterranean deep cracked open and burst up through the ground. Heaven’s floodgates were opened," 
Genesis7:12 and heavy rains fell on the earth for forty days and forty nights. 
Genesis7:13 On that very day, Noah and his wife, their sons, Ham, Shem, and Japheth, and their wives, entered safely into the ark." 
Genesis7:14 Pairs of every species of animal entered with them—wild animals, domesticated animals, large and small, and every species of bird and winged creatures—every animal that has the breath of life came into the ark with Noah." 
Genesis7:15  
Genesis7:16 Both male and female went inside as God had commanded Noah; and Yahweh himself shut them in. 
Genesis7:17 For forty days, the flood engulfed the earth. The swelling floodwaters lifted up the ark until it rose high above the ground." 
Genesis7:18 The raging flood completely inundated the earth, but the ark floated safely, drifting upon the surface of the water," 
Genesis7:19 until the highest mountains were completely submerged beneath the rising waters. 
Genesis7:20 The waters rose over twenty-two feet above the highest mountains. 
Genesis7:21 Every living thing on the earth perished—domesticated animals, wild animals, birds, everything that moved on the earth, and all mankind perished." 
Genesis7:22 Everything perished—every animal on earth with the breath of life in its nostrils died. 
Genesis7:23 All life on earth was blotted out—all that he had made, animals large and small, wild and domesticated, birds and reptiles, including humanity, was wiped off the face of the earth. Only Noah was left behind, and those who were in the ark with him." 
Genesis7:24 And the waters covered the earth for 150 days. 
Genesis8:1 God’s heart was moved with compassion as he remembered Noah and all the animals, large and small, that were with him in the ark. And God caused a wind to sweep across the earth again and the waters subsided." 
Genesis8:2 He closed the subterranean fountains and the floodgates of heaven and held back the rain. 
Genesis8:3 After 150 days, the floodwaters gradually receded from the earth and the waters began to subside." 
Genesis8:4 And on the seventeenth day of the seventh month, the ark came to rest on the highest peak in Ararat." 
Genesis8:5 The waters continued to recede until the tenth month. And on the first day of the tenth month, all the mountaintops appeared." 
Genesis8:6 After forty more days Noah opened the window he had made in the ark 
Genesis8:7 and released a raven. It flew back and forth from the ark until the earth was dry. 
Genesis8:8 Then he sent out a dove to see if the waters had receded from the surface of the ground. 
Genesis8:9 But the dove found no place to rest, so it returned to Noah in the ark because the waters still covered the face of the earth. Noah put out his hand and grasped the dove and put it back into the ark." 
Genesis8:10 He waited another seven days and released the dove from the ark again. 
Genesis8:11 Before evening, the dove came back to him—and there in its beak was a freshly plucked olive leaf! So Noah realized that the waters had finally subsided from the earth." 
Genesis8:12 Then he waited another seven days and sent the dove out again, but this time it did not return to him in the ark." 
Genesis8:13 In Noah’s six hundred and first year, on the first day of the first month, the waters were dried up from the earth. Noah lifted the hatch, looked out, and saw the dry ground." 
Genesis8:14 On the twenty-seventh day of the second month, the earth was dry." 
Genesis8:15 Then God said to Noah," 
Genesis8:16 “Come out of the ark, you and your wife, your sons, and their wives." 
Genesis8:17 Release all the animals with you and set them free—birds, animals large and small—every living thing. And they will multiply and abound and flourish on the earth and in the sky.”" 
Genesis8:18 So Noah and his family left the ark; 
Genesis8:19 and every animal large and small, every bird and crawling thing came out of the ark by families." 
Genesis8:20 Noah erected an altar dedicated to Yahweh. Then he selected ritually clean animals and birds of every species and offered them as burnt sacrifices on the altar. 
Genesis8:21 And when Yahweh smelled the sweet fragrance of Noah’s offerings, his heart was stirred, and he said, “Never again will I curse the earth because of people, even though the imagination of their hearts are evil from their childhood; nor will I ever again destroy every living creature as I have done. I promise this:" 
Genesis8:22 “As long as earth exists there will always be seasons of planting and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night.”" 
Genesis9:1 God lovingly blessed Noah and all his family and said to them, “Reproduce, be fruitful, and populate the earth." 
Genesis9:2 I will cause every living creature of earth, sky, and sea to fear and dread you from this time forward. They are now under your authority." 
Genesis9:3 You may now eat the meat of animals as well as green plants; I now give you everything for food for you. 
Genesis9:4 However, you must not eat meat with its lifeblood still in it, for its life is in the blood." 
Genesis9:5 If anyone takes another person’s life, I will demand an account—whether from man or beast, I will demand an account for taking a human life." 
Genesis9:6 “Whoever sheds human blood, by other humans he must have his own blood shed; for to kill a person is to kill one made in God’s own beautiful image." 
Genesis9:7 Now all of you, with my blessing, reproduce, be fruitful and repopulate the earth.”" 
Genesis9:8 Then God said to Noah and his family," 
Genesis9:9 “I establish my loving covenant with you, your descendants," 
Genesis9:10 and every living creature that is with you—animals large and small, birds, and every living thing that came out of the ark." 
Genesis9:11 I will maintain my loving covenant with you. I will never again completely destroy life on earth by means of a flood. Yes, never again will a flood destroy the whole earth!”" 
Genesis9:12 “Here is the sign for you and future generations that my loving covenant will endure between me and you and every animal that came with you out of the ark: 
Genesis9:13 I have placed my rainbow among the clouds, and it will be a sign of my loving covenant between me and the earth." 
Genesis9:14 Whenever I bring clouds over the earth, and the rainbow appears in the clouds," 
Genesis9:15 I will remember my covenant with you and with every living thing upon the earth. Never again will the waters become a flood to destroy life from the earth. 
Genesis9:16 When the rainbow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant I made with you and every living thing of every kind upon the earth.”" 
Genesis9:17 So God said to Noah, “The rainbow is my signature in the sky, my seal of love to confirm that I have kept my covenant between me and every living thing on earth.”" 
Genesis9:18 Noah’s sons came out of the ark with him: Shem, Ham (the father of Canaan), and Japheth." 
Genesis9:19 From these three sons of Noah the entire world was repopulated. 
Genesis9:20 Noah, a farmer, was the first to plant a vineyard." 
Genesis9:21 He drank so much of the wine he made that he got drunk and passed out naked inside his tent. 
Genesis9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, went into the tent and gazed on his shamefully exposed father. Then he went out and informed his brothers." 
Genesis9:23 So, Shem and Japheth took their father’s cloak and walked backwards with the cloak on their shoulders into the tent to cover up their naked father. Respectfully, they turned their faces away so as not to see their father lying there exposed." 
Genesis9:24 When Noah sobered up and realized what his youngest son had done to him," 
Genesis9:25 he uttered these words: “Cursed be your son, Canaan, and let him be the lowest of servants to his brothers.”" 
Genesis9:26 He also said, “Worthy of praise is Yahweh, the God of Shem! Let Canaan be Shem’s slave." 
Genesis9:27 May God enlarge Japheth’s family and increase his territory. May he share in the blessing of Shem, and his descendants make their homes among the tents of Shem, and may Canaan be his slave also!”" 
Genesis9:28 After the flood, Noah lived another three hundred and fifty years." 
Genesis9:29 Noah’s entire lifetime was nine hundred and fifty years, and then he died." 
Genesis10:1 This is the story of the descendants of Noah’s three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. After the great flood, they fathered many children." 
Genesis10:2 The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras." 
Genesis10:3 The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah." 
Genesis10:4 The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, Cyprus, and Rhodes." 
Genesis10:5 All of Japheth’s descendants lived in their respective tribes and regions, each group speaking its own language. From there, the people spread to distant shores and faraway lands." 
Genesis10:6 The sons of Ham were Ethiopia, Egypt, Libya, and Canaan." 
Genesis10:7 The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan." 
Genesis10:8 Cush also had a son named Nimrod, who became known as the first mighty conqueror." 
Genesis10:9 He was a mighty despot before Yahweh. There was a saying, “Like Nimrod, a mighty despot before Yahweh.”" 
Genesis10:10 The centers of his kingdom, Babel, Erech, and Akkad, were in the land of Shinar." 
Genesis10:11 From there, he went into Assyria and built the cities of Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah," 
Genesis10:12 and Resen (which is between the great city of Calah and Nineveh). 
Genesis10:13 Egypt was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites," 
Genesis10:14 Pathrusites, Casluhites, and Caphtorites (the ancestors of the Philistines)." 
Genesis10:15 Canaan was the father of Sidon (his firstborn), the Hittites," 
Genesis10:16 the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites," 
Genesis10:17 the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites," 
Genesis10:18 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. The families of the Canaanites eventually scattered across" 
Genesis10:19 the Canaanite territory extending from Sidon toward Gerar to Gaza including Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha." 
Genesis10:20 These were the descendants of Ham by families, lands, languages, and nations." 
Genesis10:21 Shem, the older brother of Japheth, also had sons and was the ancestor of all the sons of Eber, who were also known as “Hebrews.”" 
Genesis10:22 The sons of Shem were Elam, Assyria, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram." 
Genesis10:23 The sons of Aram were Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash." 
Genesis10:24 Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, the father of Eber." 
Genesis10:25 Eber was the father of two sons: Peleg, (or “Division,” for during his lifetime the earth was divided), and his brother Joktan, the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah," 
Genesis10:26  
Genesis10:27 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
Genesis10:28 Obal, Abimael, Sheba," 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All the descendants of Joktan" 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All the descendants of Joktan" 
Genesis10:30 lived in the territory that extends all the way from Mesha toward the eastern hills of Sephar. 
Genesis10:31 These were the families of Shem according to their genealogies, by their families, lands, languages, and nations." 
Genesis10:32 After the flood, Noah’s descendants formed nations as the people spread throughout the earth." 
Genesis11:1 Now everyone at that time spoke a single language with one vocabulary. 
Genesis11:2 As people migrated eastward, they found a large plain in the land of Shinar and settled there." 
Genesis11:3 They said to one another, “Come, let’s unite together and make bricks of clay and burn them until they become hard.” So, they piled up the bricks they made to serve as stones and collected tar for mortar." 
Genesis11:4 Then they said, “Come, let’s begin work to build ourselves a city with a lofty tower that rises into the heavens. We’ll make a name for ourselves, a monument to us, instead of being scattered all over the earth.”" 
Genesis11:5 But when Yahweh came down to see the city and the tower which mortals had started building," 
Genesis11:6 he said, “If they have begun this as one people sharing a common language, then nothing they plan to do will be impossible for them." 
Genesis11:7 Come, let us go down and confuse their language and prevent them from understanding each other.”" 
Genesis11:8 So Yahweh scattered them over the entire earth, and they stopped building their city." 
Genesis11:9 That is why the city was called Babel—because it was there that Yahweh confused the language of the whole world and from there the people were scattered over the face of the earth. 
Genesis11:10 These are the descendants of Shem. Two years after the flood, at the age of one hundred, Shem had a son named Arphaxad." 
Genesis11:11 And after Arphaxad was born, Shem lived another five hundred years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:12 When Arphaxad was thirty-five, he had a son named Shelah." 
Genesis11:13 And after Shelah was born Arphaxad lived another four hundred and three years and had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis11:14 When Shelah was thirty, he had a son named Eber." 
Genesis11:15 And after Eber was born, Shelah lived another four hundred and three years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:16 When Eber was thirty-four, he had a son named Peleg." 
Genesis11:17 And after Peleg was born, Eber lived another four hundred and thirty years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:18 When Peleg was thirty, he had a son named Reu." 
Genesis11:19 And after Reu was born, Peleg lived another two hundred and nine years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:20 When Reu was thirty-two, he had a son named Serug." 
Genesis11:21 And after Serug was born, Reu lived another two hundred and seven years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:22 When Serug was thirty, he had a son named Nahor." 
Genesis11:23 And after Nahor was born, Serug lived another two hundred years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:24 When Nahor was twenty-nine, he had a son named Terah." 
Genesis11:25 And after Terah was born, Nahor lived another one hundred and nineteen years and had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:26 When Terah was seventy, he had sons named Abram, Nahor, and Haran." 
Genesis11:27 Here are the descendants of Terah. Terah was the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran was the father of Lot." 
Genesis11:28 Haran preceded his father, Terah, in death in the land of his birth, in the Chaldean city of Ur." 
Genesis11:29 The brothers, Abram and Nahor, were both married. Abram’s wife was Sarai. Nahor married the daughter of his deceased brother Haran; her name was Milcah, and her sister was Iscah." 
Genesis11:30 Now Sarai was barren and childless. 
Genesis11:31 Terah took his son Abram, his grandson Lot, the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram’s wife, and they all departed together from the Chaldean city of Ur to go into the land of Canaan. But when they journeyed as far as Haran, they settled there." 
Genesis11:32 Terah lived two hundred and five years and died in Haran. 
Genesis12:1 Now Yahweh said to Abram, “Leave it all behind — your native land, your people, your father’s household, and go to the land that I will show you." 
Genesis12:2 Follow me, and I will make you into a great nation. I will exceedingly bless and prosper you, and I will make you famous, so that you will be a tremendous source of blessing for others." 
Genesis12:3 I will bless all who bless you and curse all who curse you. And through you all the families of the earth will be blessed.” 
Genesis12:4 So Abram obeyed Yahweh and left; and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran after his father died. 
Genesis12:5 He took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, and all the possessions and people he had acquired in Haran; and they departed for the land of Canaan. When they arrived in the land of Canaan," 
Genesis12:6 Abram passed through the land and stopped at the sacred site of Shechem, famous for the great oak tree of Moreh. At that time, the Canaanites were also in the land." 
Genesis12:7 Then Yahweh appeared before Abram and said, “This is the land I will personally deliver to your seed.” So Abram erected an altar there to Yahweh, who had appeared before him." 
Genesis12:8 From there, he journeyed on toward the hill country east of Bethel and pitched his tent with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built another altar to Yahweh where he prayed and worshiped Yahweh." 
Genesis12:9 Then Abram journeyed from there by stages through the southern desert region. 
Genesis12:10 At that time, a severe famine struck the land of Canaan, forcing Abram to travel down to Egypt and live there as a foreigner." 
Genesis12:11 When he drew near to Egypt, he said to his wife Sarai, “Look, I’m worried because I know that you are a beautiful, gorgeous woman." 
Genesis12:12 When the Egyptian men take one look at you, they will say, ‘She is his wife.’ Then they will kill me in order to have you." 
Genesis12:13 Just tell them you are my sister so that they will treat me well for your sake and spare my life.” 
Genesis12:14 When Abram entered Egypt, everyone noticed Sarai’s stunning beauty." 
Genesis12:15 When Pharaoh’s dignitaries spotted her, they went to Pharaoh and raved about her beauty. Then they took Sarai into the palace and made her part of Pharaoh’s harem." 
Genesis12:16 Because she pleased Pharaoh, Abram got along very well in Egypt and received royal treatment: he was given sheep, cattle, male and female donkeys, camels, and male and female slaves." 
Genesis12:17 But Yahweh struck Pharaoh and his household with terrible diseases because he had taken Abram’s wife, Sarai." 
Genesis12:18 So Pharaoh sent for Abram and said, “How could you do this to me? Why didn’t you tell me she was your wife?" 
Genesis12:19 And why did you lie to me by saying, ‘She’s my sister,’ so that I took her as my wife? Now, here’s your wife back; take her and begone!”" 
Genesis12:20 Then Pharaoh gave strict orders to his men to escort them out of Egypt along with everything they had. 
Genesis13:1 Abram took his wife and all that he owned, and left Egypt. They returned to the southern desert region, and Lot went with them." 
Genesis13:2 Now Abram had become very rich in livestock, silver, and gold." 
Genesis13:3 And he journeyed on from place to place as far as the hill country region of Bethel. He returned to the place between Bethel and Ai where he had pitched his tent at the beginning. 
Genesis13:4 This was the place he had first built an altar to pray and worship Yahweh. 
Genesis13:5 Now Lot, who accompanied Abram, was also rich and had accumulated flocks, herds, family, and servants." 
Genesis13:6 Arguments erupted between Abram’s herdsmen and Lot’s herdsmen because the land could not support both living together, for their animals and possessions were too numerous. At that time, Canaanites and Perizzites were also in the land." 
Genesis13:7  
Genesis13:8 So Abram said to Lot, “Let’s not quarrel with each other, or between our herdsmen, since we are relatives." 
Genesis13:9 Look at the vast land that is in front of you! Let’s settle in different regions. If you choose the land on the left, then I’ll go right, and if you want land on the right, then I’ll go left.”" 
Genesis13:10 Lot lifted his eyes and carefully surveyed the land around him all the way to Zoar. He noticed that the Jordan Valley was fertile and well-watered (this was before Yahweh had destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah). It looked beautiful, like the garden of Yahweh, or like Egypt." 
Genesis13:11 So Lot chose to settle in the Jordan Valley. He departed toward the east, and the family split up and separated from each other." 
Genesis13:12 Abram settled in the land of Canaan while Lot settled in the cities of the lowlands, at a place near Sodom." 
Genesis13:13 Now, the people of Sodom were extremely wicked and rebelled against Yahweh." 
Genesis13:14 After Lot separated from him, Yahweh spoke to Abram, “Lift up your eyes and look around you to the north, the south, the east, and the west." 
Genesis13:15 As far as you can see in every direction is the land that I will give to you forever—to you and your seed. 
Genesis13:16 I will multiply them until they are as numerous as the specks of dust on the earth. If anyone could count the dust of the earth, then your offspring could also be counted." 
Genesis13:17 Now, get up and walk through the land—its length and its breadth. All the land you walk upon will be my gift to you!”" 
Genesis13:18 Abram moved his camp and settled by the oaks of Mamre, which are at Hebron, and there he built another altar to Yahweh." 
Genesis14:1 During the reign of Amraphel king of Babylon, he allied with three other kings: Arioch king of Ellasar, Kedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goyim." 
Genesis14:2 These four kings went to war against five kings: Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar." 
Genesis14:3 Kedorlaomer had oppressed these five kings for twelve years until they rebelled against him in the thirteenth year. They all became regional allies in the valley of Siddim, which is now the Dead Sea." 
Genesis14:4  
Genesis14:5 In the fourteenth year, Kedorlaomer went to war with his allied kings. They defeated the Rephaites in Ashteroth-karnaim, the Zuzites in Ham, the Emites in Shavah-kiriathaim," 
Genesis14:6 and the Horites in the hill country of Seir, as far as El Paran near the desert." 
Genesis14:7 Then they turned back and attacked En-mishpat (that is, Kadesh) and subdued all the country of the Amalekites and the Amorites who lived in Hazazon-tamar." 
Genesis14:8 Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar), marched out in battle formation in the valley of Siddim." 
Genesis14:9 There they faced off against Kedorlaomer, king of Elam; Tidal, king of Goyim; Amraphel, king of Babylon; and Arioch, king of Ellasar—four kings against five." 
Genesis14:10 Now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits, and as the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah and their armies retreated from the battle and fled, some of them fell into the tar pits, and the rest fled to the hill country." 
Genesis14:11 The four victorious kings captured all the possessions and all the food of Sodom and Gomorrah and left. 
Genesis14:12 They captured Lot, Abram’s nephew who had been living in Sodom, and took him and all his possessions." 
Genesis14:13 One who escaped came to Abram the Hebrew and told him what had happened to Lot. Abram was living by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite. Mamre had two brothers, Eshcol and Aner, who were allied by treaty with Abram." 
Genesis14:14 When Abram heard that his nephew Lot had been taken captive by the four kings, he mobilized all the men in his camp, 318 in all who had been born and trained in his own household, and he pursued the invaders as far north as Dan." 
Genesis14:15 Then, during the night, Abram strategically divided his forces and defeated them. His forces attacked them and routed them as far as Hobah, north of Damascus." 
Genesis14:16 He recovered all the stolen possessions and brought back his nephew Lot, together with the women and all the prisoners." 
Genesis14:17 After Abram returned from defeating Kedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet Abram at the valley of the Shaveh (known as the King’s Valley)." 
Genesis14:18 And Melchizedek, who was both a priest of the Most High God and the king of Salem, brought out to Abram bread and wine." 
Genesis14:19 He spoke over him a special blessing, saying, “Blessed is Abram by God Most High, Creator of heaven and earth." 
Genesis14:20 And blessed be God Most High, whose power delivered your enemies into your hands!” Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth of all he possessed." 
Genesis14:21 Then the king of Sodom said to Abram, “Just give me the people you rescued; keep all the spoils for yourself.”" 
Genesis14:22 But Abram said to the king of Sodom, “I raised my hand to Yahweh, God Most High, and I pledged a solemn oath to the Possessor of heaven and earth" 
Genesis14:23 that I would keep nothing for myself that belongs to you, not even a thread of a garment or sandal strap. That way, you will never be able to say, ‘I was the one that made Abram rich.’" 
Genesis14:24 I will take nothing except what my young men have eaten, and the share of those who went with me—Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. Let them take their share.”" 
Genesis15:1 Afterwards, the word of Yahweh came to Abram in a vision and said, “Abram, don’t yield to fear, for I am your Faithful Shield and your Abundant Reward.”" 
Genesis15:2 But Abram replied, “Lord Yahweh, what good is your reward if I remain childless? I’m about to die without a son, and my servant, Eliezer of Damascus, will inherit all my wealth." 
Genesis15:3 A servant in my household will end up with everything because you have not given me any children.” 
Genesis15:4 Immediately, the word of Yahweh came to him: “ No! Eliezer will not be your heir. I will give you a son from your own body to be your heir.”" 
Genesis15:5 Then Yahweh brought him outside his tent and said, “Gaze into the night sky. Go ahead and try to count the stars.” He continued, “Your seed will be as numerous as the stars!”" 
Genesis15:6 And Abram trusted every word Yahweh had spoken! And because of his faith, Yahweh credited it to him as righteousness." 
Genesis15:7 Then he said to him, “I am Yahweh, who brought you out of the Babylonian city of Ur, to give you all this land to possess.”" 
Genesis15:8 But Abram said, “Lord Yahweh, how can I be sure that I can possess this land for myself?”" 
Genesis15:9 Yahweh said to him, “Bring me a heifer, a female goat, and a ram, each three years old, also a turtledove and a young pigeon.”" 
Genesis15:10 So, Abram brought the animals to him and killed them. He cut them in two (except the birds) and laid each half opposite the other in two rows." 
Genesis15:11 Vultures swooped down upon the carcasses, but Abram stood there and drove the vultures away." 
Genesis15:12 As the heavy veil of night fell, Abram went into a deep state of sleep, and suddenly a great dreadful darkness surrounded him and he was filled with fear." 
Genesis15:13 Then Yahweh said to Abram, “Know this: your descendants will live as strangers in a foreign country. They will be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years." 
Genesis15:14 Afterward I will punish that nation for enslaving them, and your descendants will come out of slavery with untold wealth." 
Genesis15:15 You, however, will go to your ancestors in peace and live a full life." 
Genesis15:16 And after the fourth generation, your descendants will return here; for then the sin of the Amorites will be ripe for judgment.”" 
Genesis15:17 When the sun had set, and it was very dark, there suddenly appeared a smoking firepot and a blazing torch that passed between the split carcasses." 
Genesis15:18 On that day, Yahweh entered into covenant with Abram: “I have given this land to your descendants, from the Egyptian border to the great river Euphrates," 
Genesis15:19 the entire land of the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites," 
Genesis15:20 the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaites," 
Genesis15:21 the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.”" 
Genesis16:1 Now Sarai had borne no children for Abram. She had an Egyptian slave girl named Hagar," 
Genesis16:2 so Sarai said to Abram, “Please listen. Since Yahweh has kept me childless, go sleep with my maidservant. Perhaps through her I can build you a family.” Abram listened and did what Sarai asked." 
Genesis16:3 Abram had already lived ten years in the land of Canaan when his wife Sarai took her Egyptian slave girl Hagar and gave her to Abram to be his second wife. 
Genesis16:4 He slept with Hagar, and she conceived. Once Hagar realized she was pregnant, she belittled Sarai and despised her." 
Genesis16:5 So Sarai went to Abram and said, “ It’s totally your fault that Hagar despises me—and you’re not standing up for me! I gave my slave girl to your embrace, and when she found out she was pregnant, she despised me. May Yahweh judge between us who is in the right!”" 
Genesis16:6 Abram responded, “She’s your slave girl under your authority, so do with her whatever you think best.” Then Sarai cruelly mistreated Hagar, who then ran away from her." 
Genesis16:7 The angel of Yahweh encountered Hagar by a spring in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur." 
Genesis16:8 He asked her, “Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and what are you doing here?” She replied, “I’m running away from Sarai, my mistress.”" 
Genesis16:9 The angel of Yahweh told her, “You have to go back to your mistress and humbly submit to her.”" 
Genesis16:10 The angel added, “I will greatly multiply your descendants until no one can count them.”" 
Genesis16:11 Yahweh ’s angel continued, “You are now pregnant, and soon you will give birth to a son. You will name him Ishmael, for Yahweh has heard your cries of distress." 
Genesis16:12 Your son will have a wild nature that no one can tame. He will be hostile toward everyone, and everyone will be hostile toward him; and he will live at odds with all his kinsmen.”" 
Genesis16:13 After her encounter with Yahweh, Hagar called him by a special name, “You are the God of My Seeing,” for she said, “Oh my, did I just see God and live to talk about it?”" 
Genesis16:14 That is why the well is called Spring of the Living One Who Watches Over Me. The well is still there, between Kadesh and Bered." 
Genesis16:15 Hagar returned and bore Abram a son, whom Abram named Ishmael." 
Genesis16:16 Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael. 
Genesis17:1 When Abram was ninety-nine years old, Yahweh appeared to him again and said, “I am the God who is more than enough. Live your life in my presence and be blameless." 
Genesis17:2 I will confirm my covenant between me and you, and I will greatly multiply your descendants.”" 
Genesis17:3 Then Abram fell on his face in awe before God, and God said to him," 
Genesis17:4 “I establish my covenant with you: “You will become a father of many nations. 
Genesis17:5 You will no longer be named Abram because I am changing your name to Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations." 
Genesis17:6 I will make you abundantly fruitful, more than you expect. I will make nations out of you, and kings will trace their lineage back to you." 
Genesis17:7 Yes, I will establish my eternal covenant of love between me and you, and it will extend to your descendants throughout their generations. I will be your children’s God, just as I am your God." 
Genesis17:8 I will give to you and your seed the land to which you have migrated. The entire land of Canaan will be yours and your descendants’ as an everlasting possession. And I will be their God forever!” 
Genesis17:9 God explained to Abraham, “Your part of the covenant is to obey its terms, you and your descendants throughout the ages." 
Genesis17:10 So here is the sign of the covenant that you are to keep, so that it will endure between you and me and your descendants: circumcise every male among you." 
Genesis17:11 You must undergo cutting off the flesh of your foreskin as a special sign of the covenant between me and you. 
Genesis17:12 Throughout your generations, each male child must be circumcised eight days after his birth. This includes those not of your descendants—those born in your household and foreign-born servants whom you have purchased;" 
Genesis17:13 they must be circumcised, homeborn and purchased alike. In this way, you will carry in your flesh the sign of my everlasting covenant." 
Genesis17:14 Any uncircumcised male who does not have the foreskin of his flesh cut off will be cut off from his people, for he has broken my covenant.”" 
Genesis17:15 God also said to Abraham: “Concerning your wife Sarai, you are not to call her Sarai anymore, but Sarah, ‘My Princess,’ will be her name." 
Genesis17:16 I will wonderfully bless her, and I will certainly give you a son through her. Yes, I will bless her greatly, and she will become a mother of nations; kings of nations will arise among her children!”" 
Genesis17:17 Then Abraham laughed so hard he fell to the ground, saying to himself, “How in the world can a hundred-year-old man become a father? How can my wife Sarah get pregnant at ninety?”" 
Genesis17:18 And then he spoke out loud: “O, that Ishmael might prosper with your blessing!”" 
Genesis17:19 God said, “Listen to me. I promise that you and Sarah will have a son, and you will call him Isaac. I will confirm my everlasting covenant of love with him and his seed." 
Genesis17:20 And regarding Ishmael, I have heard your cry and I will indeed bless him. I will cause him to have many, many descendants. He will father twelve rulers, and I will make him into a great nation." 
Genesis17:21 But my everlasting covenant relationship is with Isaac, who will be born to you and Sarah about this time next year.”" 
Genesis17:22 When he had finished speaking with Abraham, God ascended up to heaven." 
Genesis17:23 So without delay Abraham obeyed God and took his son Ishmael and every male in his household (whether born in his house or foreign-born servants) and circumcised them that very same day. 
Genesis17:24 Abraham was already ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised," 
Genesis17:25 and his son Ishmael was thirteen. 
Genesis17:26 They were both circumcised on the same day," 
Genesis17:27 along with all the men of his household (whether born in his house or foreign-born servants). 
Genesis18:1 Yahweh appeared once again to Abraham while he lived by the oak grove of Mamre. During the hottest part of the day, as Abraham sat at his tent door," 
Genesis18:2 he looked up and suddenly saw three men standing nearby. As soon as he saw them, he ran from his tent to welcome them. He bowed down to the ground" 
Genesis18:3 and said, “My Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, don’t pass me by. Stay for a while with your servant." 
Genesis18:4 I’ll have some water brought to you all so that you can wash your feet. Rest here a while under the tree. 
Genesis18:5 Since you’ve stopped by your servant’s home and honored me with your presence, I’ll have food prepared for you so that you can be refreshed; then you can go on your way.” “Very well,” they responded, “go ahead and do as you have said.”" 
Genesis18:6 Abraham hurried back into the tent and said to Sarah, “Quick, we have guests! Get three measures of fine flour, knead it, and bake some bread.”" 
Genesis18:7 Then Abraham ran to the herd, selected a tender choice calf, and told his servant, “Hurry—prepare this calf for my guests!”" 
Genesis18:8 Then he brought the meal they had prepared—roasted meat, bread, curds, and milk—and set it before his guests. Abraham stood by them under the tree while they ate." 
Genesis18:9 They asked him, “Where is your wife Sarah?” He answered, “Over there—in the tent.”" 
Genesis18:10 Then one spoke up and said, “I will return about this time next year, when your wife Sarah will certainly have a son.” Sarah overheard it, for she was at the tent door not far behind him." 
Genesis18:11 Now, both Abraham and Sarah were already very old, and Sarah was past the age of childbearing." 
Genesis18:12 Sarah laughed to herself with disbelief, saying, “A woman my age—have a baby? After I’m worn out will I now enjoy marital bliss and conceive —and with my aged husband?”" 
Genesis18:13 Yahweh knew her thoughts and asked Abraham, “Why is Sarah laughing, saying, ‘How can a woman my age have a baby?’" 
Genesis18:14 Do you think there is anything too marvelous for Yahweh? I will appear to you at the appointed time next year and Sarah will have a son!” 
Genesis18:15 Sarah was afraid, so she denied it, saying, “I wasn’t laughing.” But he said, “Yes, you were!”" 
Genesis18:16 Afterward, the three men departed and walked toward Sodom, and Abraham went off with them to see them on their way." 
Genesis18:17 As they walked, Yahweh said, “Should I really hide from Abraham what I intend to do?" 
Genesis18:18 After all, he will become a great and powerful nation, and every nation on earth will seek bliss like his." 
Genesis18:19 It is true; I have singled him out as my own, so that he will lead his family and household to follow my ways and live by what is right and just. I will fulfill all the promises that I have spoken to him.”" 
Genesis18:20 Yahweh explained to Abraham, “The outcry for justice against Sodom and Gomorrah is so great and their sin so blatant" 
Genesis18:21 that I must go down and see if their wicked actions are as great as the outrage that has come to me, and if not, then I will know.”" 
Genesis18:22 As Yahweh ’s two companions went on toward Sodom, Abraham remained there, as Yahweh paused before Abraham." 
Genesis18:23 So Abraham came forward to present his case before Yahweh, and said, “Are you really going to sweep away the righteous while you judge the wicked?" 
Genesis18:24 What if you find fifty righteous people in Sodom? Isn’t your mercy great enough to forgive? Why judge the entire city at the cost of the fifty righteous who live there? 
Genesis18:25 That’s not who you are—one who would slay the righteous with the wicked, treating them both the same way! Wouldn’t the Merciful Judge of all the earth always do what is right?”" 
Genesis18:26 And Yahweh said, “Alright. If I find fifty righteous in Sodom, I will spare the whole city for their sake.”" 
Genesis18:27 Abraham spoke up again and said, “I am just a man formed from earth’s dust and ashes but allow me to be so bold as to ask you, my Lord." 
Genesis18:28 What if there are only five lacking, and you only find forty-five righteous in Sodom? It’s not who you are to destroy the entire city for lack of five righteous people.” And Yahweh said, “Alright. If I find forty-five righteous in Sodom, I will spare the whole city.”" 
Genesis18:29 “But what if there are only forty?” Abraham asked further. Yahweh answered, “Alright. If I only find forty, I will spare the city.”" 
Genesis18:30 Abraham paused —then he said, “Lord, please don’t be offended with me, and let me speak . . . What if there are only thirty?” Yahweh answered, “Alright. If I find only thirty, I will spare the city.”" 
Genesis18:31 Abraham ventured even further, asking, “Allow me to dare speak this way to you, my Lord. But what if you find there only twenty righteous?” Yahweh answered, “Alright. For the sake of the twenty I will not destroy the city.”" 
Genesis18:32 Then Abraham took a deep breath and asked, “Once more, please don’t let my Lord be angry with me if I make but one more request. What if you find only ten righteous?” And Yahweh answered, “Alright. I will extend my mercy and not destroy the city for the sake of ten righteous.”" 
Genesis18:33 Yahweh finished speaking with Abraham. He immediately went on his way, and Abraham returned home." 
Genesis19:1 That evening, the two angels came to Sodom while Lot was sitting at the city’s gateway. When Lot saw them, he got up to meet them and bowed with his face to the ground." 
Genesis19:2 He said, “Please, my lords, come to your servant’s house to spend the night and wash your feet; then you can rise early and go on your way.” “No,” they answered. “We will be fine to spend the night in the town square.”" 
Genesis19:3 But Lot was so insistent they finally agreed to go to his house. Lot had unleavened bread baked for them and prepared a feast, and they ate." 
Genesis19:4 But before they retired for the night, the men of the city, men young and old, from every part of the city of Sodom, to the last man, surrounded the house." 
Genesis19:5 They shouted out to Lot, “Where are the men who came to your house tonight? Bring them out to us so that we can have sex with them!”" 
Genesis19:6 Lot went outside, shutting the door behind him," 
Genesis19:7 and said to them, “No! My brothers, I beg you, don’t sink to such depravity!" 
Genesis19:8 Look, I have two virgin daughters; I’ll bring them out to you, and you can do with them as you please. Only don’t do anything to these men, for they are guests in my house.”" 
Genesis19:9 “Get out of our way,” they replied. “This guy comes as a foreigner to live among us, and now he dares to judge us! We’ll inflict more harm on you than on them!” Just then they lunged at Lot and tried to break down the door," 
Genesis19:10 but the two angels reached out and pulled Lot safely back into the house and bolted the door. 
Genesis19:11 They struck the men outside the house, young and old, with one blazing flash of light so that they could not find the door!" 
Genesis19:12 Then the visitors said to Lot, “Who else lives here? Do you have any other family here—sons or daughters, sons-in-law or daughters-in-law who live in Sodom? Get them all out of the city," 
Genesis19:13 because we are about to destroy this place. A tremendous outcry against the people has come before Yahweh, and he has sent us here to destroy it!”" 
Genesis19:14 So Lot went out to find the two men who were pledged to marry his daughters and told them, “Hurry, leave the city, for Yahweh is about to destroy it!” But they thought he was only joking and paid him no attention." 
Genesis19:15 At dawn, the angels urged Lot, saying, “Go! Take your wife and your two daughters and leave or you will be consumed in the judgment about to come to the city!”" 
Genesis19:16 But Lot hesitated, so the angels grabbed his hands and the hands of his wife and daughters and brought them outside the city, because Yahweh was merciful to them." 
Genesis19:17 Once they were safely outside the city, the angels said to them, “Run for your lives! Don’t stop anywhere in the plain until you’ve reached the mountains. And don’t even look back, or you’ll die!”" 
Genesis19:18 Lot replied, “Oh no, my lords." 
Genesis19:19 You’ve been so gracious to your servant, and you’ve been so kind to save our lives, but I can’t make it to the mountains. It’s so far from here; disaster will overtake me, and I’ll die!" 
Genesis19:20 Look, over there is a village close enough to run to, and it’s a small one. Let me escape there instead. You can see that it’s such a small village. Let my life be spared!”" 
Genesis19:21 “All right,” he replied. “I will grant this request too. I will not destroy that village." 
Genesis19:22 Now, you must hurry. Run to that village, for I can’t do anything until you are there.” (That is why the village was called Zoar.)" 
Genesis19:23 By mid-morning, Lot arrived at the small village of Zoar," 
Genesis19:24 And Yahweh ’s fire from heaven fell upon Sodom and Gomorrah. 
Genesis19:25 He completely destroyed the cities of the plain, and all their inhabitants and whatever grew in the valley." 
Genesis19:26 But Lot’s wife turned and gazed longingly on the city and turned into a pillar of salt. 
Genesis19:27 That morning, Abraham hurried back to the place where he had stood before Yahweh." 
Genesis19:28 Looking down toward all the land of the plain, he saw columns of smoke billowing up from Sodom and Gomorrah —like the smoke of a furnace!" 
Genesis19:29 So before God destroyed the cities of the plain where Lot had settled, he remembered his affection for Abraham and spared Lot from all the destruction." 
Genesis19:30 Afraid to remain in Zoar, Lot left there and settled in the hill country and lived in a cave with his two daughters." 
Genesis19:31 One day, his firstborn suggested to the younger, “Our father is getting old, and there isn’t a man anywhere who could impregnate us in the normal way." 
Genesis19:32 Come, let’s get our father drunk with wine and have sex with him. That way we can at least have children through our father.”" 
Genesis19:33 That night, they got their father drunk with wine, and the firstborn went in and slept with him. Lot was so drunk he didn’t have a clue about what had happened." 
Genesis19:34 The next day, the firstborn said to the younger, “I slept with my father last night. Tonight, it’s your turn. We’ll get him drunk with wine, and you can sleep with him and we can preserve our family line through our father.”" 
Genesis19:35 So they got their father drunk the second time; and the younger went in and slept with him. He was once again so drunk he had no clue what had happened. 
Genesis19:36 As a result, both Lot’s daughters became pregnant by their father." 
Genesis19:37 The older daughter had a son named Moab, who is the ancestor of the Moabites of today." 
Genesis19:38 The younger also had a son named Ben-Ammi, the ancestor of the Ammonites of today." 
Genesis20:1 Abraham journeyed from the oaks of Mamre to the southern region of Canaan and settled between Kadesh and Shur, to live as a temporary resident in Gerar." 
Genesis20:2 Now Abraham had said about his wife Sarah, “She’s my sister.” So Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent for her and took her into his harem." 
Genesis20:3 One night, God appeared to Abimelech in a dream and said to him, “You’re as good as dead, for you have taken into your harem a married woman!”" 
Genesis20:4 Now Abimelech had not touched Sarah, so he said to the Lord, “Would you really destroy people who are innocent?" 
Genesis20:5 Didn’t the man tell me, ‘She is my sister’? And didn’t she agree and say, ‘Yes, he’s my brother’? I’ve done this with clean hands and a clear conscience.”" 
Genesis20:6 Then God answered him in the dream, “Yes, I know you did this with a clear conscience. Furthermore, it was I who kept you from sinning and kept you from touching her." 
Genesis20:7 Now return the man’s wife, and because he is a prophet, he will intercede on your behalf that you may live. But if you don’t give her back—you will certainly die, you and your entire household.”" 
Genesis20:8 So Abimelech rose early in the morning and gathered all his servants. When he told them about his dream, they were terrified!" 
Genesis20:9 Abimelech summoned Abraham and asked him, “What is this trick you have played on us? I did nothing wrong to you. Why would you bring such great guilt upon me and my kingdom? You have done to me what no one should ever do to another.”" 
Genesis20:10 Then Abimelech asked, “What is your purpose in doing this?”" 
Genesis20:11 Abraham answered, “Because I thought, ‘There’s no one here that fears God. They will kill me to get to my wife.’" 
Genesis20:12 Besides, she really is my half sister. She’s my father’s daughter, but not my mother’s, so I married her." 
Genesis20:13 When God sent me out to wander from my father’s house, I said to her, ‘Here is how you can show your love for me. Everywhere we go, you must say about me, “He’s my brother.” ’ ”" 
Genesis20:14 Then Abimelech gave Abraham’s wife Sarah back to him. In addition, he gave him sheep, cattle, and both male and female servants." 
Genesis20:15 Abimelech told him, “Look, my land is now before you; feel free to settle wherever you please.”" 
Genesis20:16 Then he turned to Sarah and said, “I am giving your brother a thousand pieces of silver as compensation to settle any claim against me, to exonerate you in the eyes of all who are with you, and to clear your reputation.”" 
Genesis20:17 Then Abraham prayed to God; and God healed Abimelech! He also healed Abimelech’s wife and female servants of their infertility and they began to have babies again. 
Genesis20:18 For Yahweh had shut all the wombs of the women of Abimelech’s household because he took Sarah, Abraham’s wife." 
Genesis21:1 Yahweh visited Sarah, just as he said he would, and fulfilled his promise to her." 
Genesis21:2 And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the exact time God had promised them." 
Genesis21:3 Abraham named his son Isaac, the miracle son, whom Sarah bore him." 
Genesis21:4 When Isaac was eight days old, Abraham circumcised him, as God had commanded him." 
Genesis21:5 Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born. 
Genesis21:6 Sarah said, “God has brought me laughter, and everyone who hears about this will laugh with me.”" 
Genesis21:7 And she added, “Who would ever have told Abraham that Sarah would one day nurse children! Even though Abraham is an old man, look—I have given him a son!”" 
Genesis21:8 Isaac grew and was weaned; and on the day Sarah weaned him, Abraham prepared a great feast." 
Genesis21:9 But Sarah noticed the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, was mocking her son Isaac." 
Genesis21:10 So she said to Abraham, “Get rid of this slave woman and her son. Banish them, for the son of that slave woman must not become a coheir with my son Isaac!”" 
Genesis21:11 Abraham was very upset over Sarah’s demand, for Ishmael was his son too." 
Genesis21:12 God spoke to Abraham, “Don’t be distressed over the slave woman and her son. Listen to every word Sarah says to you, and do it, for it will be through Isaac your promise of descendants will be fulfilled." 
Genesis21:13 Rest assured, I will make the son of your slave woman into a nation too, because he is your son.”" 
Genesis21:14 Abraham rose up early the next morning, bundled up some food and a skin of water, and strapped them to Hagar’s shoulders. Then he gave her his son and sent them away. So, Hagar and her son Ishmael departed and wandered off into the wilderness of Beersheba." 
Genesis21:15 When the water was gone, she grew desperate, so she left her son under a bush." 
Genesis21:16 Then she walked about the distance of a bowshot and sat down, for she thought, “I can’t bear to watch my son die.” As she sat nearby, she broke into tears and sobbed uncontrollably." 
Genesis21:17 And God heard the voice of the boy. The angel of God called out to Hagar from the heavenly realm and said, “What’s the matter, Hagar? Don’t be afraid, for God has heard the voice of your son crying as he lies there." 
Genesis21:18 Get up! Help the boy up and hold him by the hand, for I will make him into a great nation.”" 
Genesis21:19 Then God opened her eyes to reveal a well of water. She went over to the well and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a long, cool drink." 
Genesis21:20 God was with Ishmael as he grew up in the wilderness of Paran. He became an expert archer," 
Genesis21:21 and his mother, Hagar, arranged a marriage for him with an Egyptian woman." 
Genesis21:22 At that time, King Abimelech and Phicol, his army commander, came to Abraham and said, “ It is obvious that God is with you and blesses everything you do." 
Genesis21:23 Now swear to me here before God that you will not deceive me, my children, or my descendants, but as I have shown you loyal friendship, so you will treat me—and the land in which you live as a foreigner—with loyal friendship.”" 
Genesis21:24 “I give you my oath,” Abraham answered." 
Genesis21:25 But Abraham voiced a complaint about a well of water which Abimelech’s servants had seized by force. 
Genesis21:26 Abimelech responded, “This is the first time I’ve heard about this; you never told me before now. I don’t know who has done this.”" 
Genesis21:27 So Abraham took sheep and cattle, gave them to Abimelech, and the two men made a covenant." 
Genesis21:28 Then Abraham set apart from his flock seven ewe lambs," 
Genesis21:29 and Abimelech asked him, “What are you doing with these seven ewe lambs you have set apart?”" 
Genesis21:30 He replied, “ I am giving them to you, and by accepting these seven ewe lambs, you acknowledge the proof that I dug this well and it belongs to me.”" 
Genesis21:31 That place was called Beersheba, because it was there that both men swore an oath to one another." 
Genesis21:32 After completing their pact at Beersheba, King Abimelech and Phicol, his army commander, departed and returned to Philistine country." 
Genesis21:33 Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba, and there he worshiped Yahweh, the everlasting God." 
Genesis21:34 And Abraham lived many years in peace as a foreigner in Philistine country. 
Genesis22:1 Some time later, God tested Abraham. He said, “Abraham!” “Yes, I’m here,” Abraham answered." 
Genesis22:2 God said, “Please take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom I know you dearly love, and go to the land of Moriah. Offer him up to me as a burnt offering on one of the mountains which I will show you.”" 
Genesis22:3 Early the next morning, Abraham cut the wood for the burnt offering, loaded it on his donkey, and set out for the distant place God had shown him. He took with him two of his servants, and his son Isaac." 
Genesis22:4 On the third day, Abraham looked up and saw the place in the distance." 
Genesis22:5 “Stay here with the donkey,” Abraham told the young men. “Isaac and I will go up and worship; then we will return to you.”" 
Genesis22:6 So Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and placed it on Isaac’s back. Abraham carried the knife and the fire, and the two of them walked up the mountain together." 
Genesis22:7 “Father?” Isaac broke the silence. “Yes, my son,” Abraham replied. “We have the wood and the fire,” Isaac said, “but where is the lamb for the burnt offering?”" 
Genesis22:8 Abraham answered, “My son, God himself will provide the lamb for an offering.” So they went on together." 
Genesis22:9 When they arrived at the place on Mount Moriah that God had shown him, Abraham built an altar and stacked the wood on it. He tied up his son Isaac and laid him on top of the wood on the altar." 
Genesis22:10 Then Abraham took the knife in his hand to plunge it into his son," 
Genesis22:11 but the angel of Yahweh called to him from heaven, saying, “Abraham! Abraham!” “Yes, I’m here,” he answered." 
Genesis22:12 “Do not lay a hand on the boy or harm him,” he said, “for now, I know you are fully dedicated to me, since you did not withhold your son, your beloved son, from me.”" 
Genesis22:13 As Abraham looked up, his eyes fell upon a ram caught by its horns in a nearby thicket. Abraham took the ram and sacrificed it on the altar as a burnt offering in Isaac’s place." 
Genesis22:14 So Abraham named that place Yahweh Appears. Even to this day, it is said, “On Yahweh ’s Mountain there is vision.”" 
Genesis22:15 Yahweh ’s angel spoke a second time from heaven: 
Genesis22:16 “ ‘I solemnly promise you, by the glory of my own name,’ decrees Yahweh, ‘because you have obeyed my voice and did not withhold from me your son—your beloved son — I will greatly bless you! I will make sure your seed becomes as numerous as the stars of heaven and as the sand of the seashore. Your offspring will take possession of the city gates of their enemies." 
Genesis22:17  
Genesis22:18 Because you have obeyed me, the entire world will be blessed through your seed.’ ”" 
Genesis22:19 So Abraham and Isaac returned to the waiting servants, and they departed for Beersheba, where Abraham had settled." 
Genesis22:20 Some time later Abraham heard the news, “ You’re an uncle! Milcah and your brother Nahor have eight sons: Uz, their firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram, Chesed, Hazo, Phildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel the father of Rebekah.”" 
Genesis22:21  
Genesis22:22  
Genesis22:23  
Genesis22:24 Moreover, Nahor had another wife, Reumah, who also had four sons: Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah." 
Genesis23:1 Sarah lived to be one hundred and twenty-seven. 
Genesis23:2 She died in the land of Canaan at Kiriath Arba, now known as Hebron. There Abraham mourned and wept for her." 
Genesis23:3 After his time of mourning was over, Abraham got up from where her body lay, and went to speak with the Hittites. He said to them," 
Genesis23:4 “I live as an alien and stranger among you. Sell me some of your property so I can use it as a burial site for my wife.” 
Genesis23:5 “Hear us, my lord,” the Hittites answered, “you are a mighty prince of God among us. You may bury your dead in the choicest of our tombs. None of us would withhold our burial ground from you.”" 
Genesis23:6  
Genesis23:7 Then Abraham bowed respectfully before the Hittites, the people of the land" 
Genesis23:8 and he said to them, “If you are willing to allow my wife a proper burial, then please hear me out. On my behalf please persuade your countryman, Ephron the son of Zohar," 
Genesis23:9 to sell me the cave he owns at Machpelah on the edge of his land. Let him sell it to me publicly and at the full price, so that I may own it for a burial site.”" 
Genesis23:10 Now Ephron the Hittite was sitting there among his countrymen. He spoke up so all the Hittites who sat at the gate as elders of the city could hear him, and said," 
Genesis23:11 “No, my lord, listen. I will give you not only the cave but also the entire field! In the presence of my people, I will give it to you to bury your dead.”" 
Genesis23:12 Then Abraham bowed low before the people of the land," 
Genesis23:13 and he said to Ephron in the hearing of all the people, “No, please listen, kind sir. I will pay whatever the field is worth. Take my money so that I can bury my dead there.”" 
Genesis23:14 “If you insist, my lord,” answered Ephron. “But what is a piece of land worth only four hundred silver shekels to men of our standing? Go ahead and bury your dead.”" 
Genesis23:15  
Genesis23:16 So Abraham agreed to the amount, weighed out the four hundred silver shekels according to the merchant’s standard of weight, and in the presence of the Hittites he gave the money to Ephron." 
Genesis23:17 So Ephron’s field of Machpelah, east of Mamre, along with the cave and all the trees within its borders, passed" 
Genesis23:18 to Abraham as his legal possession. The complete transaction was carried out in the presence of the Hittites—those who sat as elders at the city gates. 
Genesis23:19 After this, Abraham buried his wife Sarah in the cave there in the field of Machpelah near Mamre (now Hebron) in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis23:20 Both the field and the cave passed from the Hittites to Abraham’s possession to be his family burial ground. 
Genesis24:1 Now, Yahweh had wonderfully blessed Abraham in every way, and he became a very old man, well advanced in years." 
Genesis24:2 One day, Abraham called for his trusted head servant, who was in charge of all that he had, and said “Please, put your hand here under my thigh," 
Genesis24:3 and I will make you swear by Yahweh, the God of heaven and earth, that you will not acquire a wife for my son among the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I am living." 
Genesis24:4 Promise me you will go instead to my relatives in my native land and find a wife among them for my son Isaac.” 
Genesis24:5 The servant asked him, “Suppose the woman is not willing to come back with me to this land. Should I then take your son back to your native land?”" 
Genesis24:6 “Absolutely not,” Abraham answered, “make sure that you do not take my son back there." 
Genesis24:7 For Yahweh, the God of heaven, took me from my father’s house and from the land of my birth. He spoke to me and solemnly promised that he would give this land to my descendants. I know he will send his angel before you so that you can find a wife for my son from there." 
Genesis24:8 And if for any reason the woman is unwilling to come back with you, then you are released from this oath that you swear to me. But no matter what, do not take my son back there!”" 
Genesis24:9 So, the servant put his hand under the thigh of his master Abraham and swore an oath to carry out his wishes." 
Genesis24:10 So the servant took ten of his master’s camels, loaded them with all sorts of gifts, some of the best things his master owned, and journeyed toward the distant land of Mesopotamia until he got to the village where Abraham’s brother Nahor had lived." 
Genesis24:11 He had his camels kneel by a well outside the village. It was evening, the time when the women came out to draw water." 
Genesis24:12 He prayed: “ Yahweh, God of my master Abraham, let my journey here be a success and show your gracious love to my master Abraham." 
Genesis24:13 I am standing here by this well, and the young women of the village are coming out to draw water. Give me a sign." 
Genesis24:14 I will say to one of the girls, ‘Please, lower your jar and give me a drink.’ And if she is the right one, the girl whom you have chosen to be a wife for your servant Isaac, then let her say to me, ‘Drink, and I will also draw water for your camels.’ By this sign I will know that you have shown your gracious love to my master.”" 
Genesis24:15 Suddenly, before he had finished praying, there was Rebekah approaching the well with her jar on her shoulder. She was the daughter of Bethuel and the granddaughter of Milcah and Abraham’s brother Nahor." 
Genesis24:16 The young woman was strikingly beautiful, unmarried, and still a virgin. She walked down to the well, filled her jar, and came back up." 
Genesis24:17 Abraham’s servant hurried over to meet her and said, “Please, lower your jar and give me a little drink.”" 
Genesis24:18 She responded, “Drink, my lord.” She then quickly lowered her jar to give him a drink." 
Genesis24:19 Then, after she had finished giving him a drink, she added, “I will also draw water for your camels until they have finished drinking.”" 
Genesis24:20 She quickly emptied her jar into the watering trough and ran back to the well to draw more water, until she had watered all the camels." 
Genesis24:21 Meanwhile, the servant stared at her, silently pondering whether Yahweh had indeed made his journey successful." 
Genesis24:22 After the camels had finished drinking, he took a costly gold nose ring weighing a half shekel and two solid gold bracelets weighing ten shekels, and gave them to Rebekah." 
Genesis24:23 Then he asked her, “Tell me, who is your father? Is there room in your father’s house for me and my men to stay tonight?”" 
Genesis24:24 She replied, “My father’s name is Bethuel, and my grandparents are Milcah and Nahor.”" 
Genesis24:25 She went on, “There is room for you to spend the night at our home, and plenty of straw and food for the camels.”" 
Genesis24:26 Upon hearing this, the servant bowed down and worshiped Yahweh," 
Genesis24:27 saying, “Praised be Yahweh, the God of Abraham, for you have faithfully kept your promise to my master and displayed your wonderful kindness and love. Yahweh, you led me straight to the very place of my master’s relatives!”" 
Genesis24:28 Then the girl quickly ran to inform her mother and family about all that had happened. 
Genesis24:29 Now Rebekah had an older brother named Laban, and when he heard everything the man had told his sister and saw her gold nose ring and the costly bracelets dangling on her wrists, Laban ran out to meet the man waiting at the well—and there he was standing beside his camels." 
Genesis24:30  
Genesis24:31 Then Laban said to the man, “Friend, Yahweh has wonderfully blessed you; please, come to my home. Why are you standing out here when I have prepared the house for you and a place for your camels?”" 
Genesis24:32 So the man came into the house, and his camels were unloaded and given straw and feed. The servants brought water to wash the man’s feet and the feet of the men with him." 
Genesis24:33 But when they set food before him, he said, “I won’t eat until I tell you why I’m here.” “Please, tell us,” Laban said." 
Genesis24:34 “I am Abraham’s servant,” he began." 
Genesis24:35 “ Yahweh has wonderfully blessed my master, and he has become extremely wealthy. Yahweh has given him flocks and herds, camels and donkeys, a fortune in silver and gold, and many male and female servants." 
Genesis24:36 And my master’s wife, Sarah, has miraculously borne him a son in her old age, and my master’s son is the sole heir of his fortune." 
Genesis24:37 My master has put me under an oath saying, ‘Do not get a wife for my son from among the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I am living." 
Genesis24:38 Instead, go to my relatives in my native land and find a wife among them for my son.’" 
Genesis24:39 In reply I said to my master, ‘Suppose the woman refuses to return with me.’" 
Genesis24:40 He answered me, ‘ Yahweh, in whose presence I have walked all these years, will send his angel with you and will make your mission successful. You will find a wife for my son from among my relatives, my father’s family." 
Genesis24:41 If you go to my relatives, and they will not give her to you, then and only then will you be released from this oath.’" 
Genesis24:42 So, when I arrived at the well today, I prayed, ‘O  Yahweh, God of my master Abraham, make my mission a success." 
Genesis24:43 I’m here standing at this well. May the right girl for my master’s son come out to draw water. And when she does, I will say to her “Please give me a little drink from your jar.”" 
Genesis24:44 And if she replies, saying, “Drink, and I will also draw water for your camels,” then I might know that she is the young woman Yahweh has chosen for my master’s son.’" 
Genesis24:45 “Before I had even finished my heartfelt prayer, there was Rebekah coming out with her water jar on her shoulder! After she went down to the well and filled her jar, I said to her, ‘Please give me a drink.’" 
Genesis24:46 She quickly lowered her jar and said, ‘Drink, and I will also draw water for your camels.’ So, I drank, and she also watered the camels." 
Genesis24:47 Then I asked her, ‘Tell me, who is your father?’ She said, ‘I’m the daughter of Bethuel, son of Nahor, whom Milcah bore to him.’ When I learned she was of my master’s family, I put a gold ring in her nose and gold bracelets on her wrists," 
Genesis24:48 and I bowed before Yahweh and worshiped him. I praised Yahweh, the God of my master Abraham, who led me perfectly on the right path to find the very daughter of my master’s brother to marry his son." 
Genesis24:49 Now, if you will show faithful love to my master and do what is right, then give me permission to take Rebekah back to his land. If not, tell me, and I will go on my way.”" 
Genesis24:50 After hearing this, Laban and Bethuel said, “This was all planned by Yahweh! If this is his plan, what can we say?" 
Genesis24:51 Here stands our Rebekah before you. You may take her and go and let her marry your master’s son and fulfill Yahweh ’s plan for her.” 
Genesis24:52 When Abraham’s servant heard their words, he bowed his face down to the ground and worshiped Yahweh." 
Genesis24:53 Then he brought expensive jewelry of silver and gold and exquisitely embroidered garments, and gave them all to Rebekah, and he gave costly gifts to her brother and her mother." 
Genesis24:54 Afterward, the servant and his men ate and drank, and they spent the night in Laban’s home. First thing in the morning, he said to them, “Allow me now to return to my master.”" 
Genesis24:55 Her brother and mother replied, “Please let Rebekah remain with us a while—for ten days or so, then she may go with you.”" 
Genesis24:56 He responded, “Please, Yahweh has made my mission successful. Send me off with her to my master, don’t make me wait.”" 
Genesis24:57 They answered him, “We will call for Rebekah and see what she wants to do.”" 
Genesis24:58 So they called for Rebekah and asked her, “Will you go with this man?” “I will gladly go with him,” she answered." 
Genesis24:59 So they sent their sister Rebekah away with her servant girls to go with Abraham’s servant and his men. 
Genesis24:60 As she departed, they blessed her with these words: “Our dear sister, may you become thousands of ten thousands! May your descendants gain possession of the city gates of their foes!”" 
Genesis24:61 Then Rebekah and her servant girls mounted the camels and followed the servant and his men. 
Genesis24:62 Meanwhile, Isaac, who was living in the southern desert of Canaan, had just come back to his camp from the Well of the Living One Who Watches Over Me." 
Genesis24:63 Isaac went out in the evening into the field to meditate. He looked up, and saw camels coming in the distance." 
Genesis24:64 As Rebekah got closer, she raised her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she nearly fell off her camel!" 
Genesis24:65 She whispered to the servant, “Who is that man walking in the field toward us?” “Why, he’s the one about whom I told you, that’s my young master!” the servant said. So Rebekah quickly took her veil and covered her face." 
Genesis24:66 Then the servant began to explain to Isaac in detail all the amazing things that had happened. 
Genesis24:67 Isaac fell in love with Rebekah. He took her to be his wife, and they were married, and he brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent. In this way, Isaac was greatly comforted after his mother’s death." 
Genesis25:1 Now Abraham had taken another wife, whose name was Keturah." 
Genesis25:2 She and Abraham had sons named Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah." 
Genesis25:3 Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan. 
Genesis25:4 Dedan’s sons were the Ashurites, the Letushites, and the Leummites. Midian’s sons were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the descendants of Keturah." 
Genesis25:5 Abraham gave all that he possessed to Isaac," 
Genesis25:6 but to his sons by his concubines he gave gifts while he was still living. He sent them all away eastward, separating them from his son Isaac." 
Genesis25:7 Abraham lived a total of one hundred and seventy-five years. 
Genesis25:8 Abraham took his final breath, dying at a good old age. After having lived a full, content life, he joined his ancestors." 
Genesis25:9 His sons, Isaac and Ishmael, buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field which had belonged to Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite, east of Mamre." 
Genesis25:10 They buried him next to his wife Sarah, in the same field that Abraham purchased from the Hittites." 
Genesis25:11 After Abraham had passed, God greatly blessed his son Isaac, and Isaac settled near the well named the Well of the Living One Who Watches Over Me." 
Genesis25:12 This is the account of the descendants of Abraham’s son Ishmael, whom Sarah’s servant, Hagar the Egyptian, bore to Abraham." 
Genesis25:13 The names of Ishmael’s sons in their birth order are: Nebaioth the firstborn; and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
Genesis25:14 Mishma, Dumah, Massa," 
Genesis25:15 Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah." 
Genesis25:16 These twelve sons of Ishmael became princes of twelve tribes that were named after them, listed by the places they settled and camped." 
Genesis25:17 They occupied the land from Havilah to Shur, which is east of Egypt, in the direction of Assyria. And Ishmael lived in hostility toward all of his people. At the age of one hundred and thirty-seven, Ishmael breathed his last and died and was joined to his ancestors." 
Genesis25:18  
Genesis25:19 This is how the story of Isaac begins. He was the beloved son of Abraham and the successor of Abraham’s blessing. 
Genesis25:20 When he was forty, he married Rebekah. She was the daughter of Bethuel and the sister of Laban. Both her father and brother were Arameans from Paddan-Aram." 
Genesis25:21 Now, Rebekah was unable to have children, but Isaac pleaded with Yahweh on behalf of his wife because she was barren—and she did get pregnant, for Yahweh responded to Isaac’s prayer." 
Genesis25:22 During her pregnancy, Rebekah could feel twins thrashing and struggling with each other inside her womb. So she went to inquire of Yahweh, saying, “Why do I have to live with this?”" 
Genesis25:23 And Yahweh answered her, saying, “The two sons in your womb will become two nations, and the two peoples within you will become rivals. One people will become stronger than the other, and the older will serve the younger.”" 
Genesis25:24 And when the time came for Rebekah to give birth, sure enough, she had twins!" 
Genesis25:25 The first one came out reddish and covered with hair like a hairy garment; so they named him Esau. 
Genesis25:26 And his brother came out with his hand grasping Esau’s heel; so, they named him Jacob. Isaac was sixty when the twins were born." 
Genesis25:27 When the boys grew up, Esau became a rugged outdoorsman and a hardy hunter, but Jacob was more contemplative, content to stay close to home." 
Genesis25:28 Isaac loved Esau because he was fond of eating wild game, but Rebekah dearly loved Jacob." 
Genesis25:29 One day, when Jacob was cooking a stew, Esau returned from hunting, and he was famished." 
Genesis25:30 Smelling the aroma of food, Esau said to Jacob, “I’m starving! Let me eat some of that red stuff you’re cooking.” (This is why he is also called Edom.)" 
Genesis25:31 “Yes, but first you must trade me your birthright,” Jacob replied." 
Genesis25:32 “Can’t you see I’m dying of hunger?” Esau said. “What good is the birthright if I’m dead?” 
Genesis25:33 But Jacob insisted, “First, swear to me that you’ll give it to me.” So, Esau swore an oath and surrendered his birthright to Jacob." 
Genesis25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau some lentil stew and bread. When Esau had finished eating and drinking, he just got up and walked away. Esau cared nothing about his own birthright." 
Genesis26:1 Now, another famine struck the land, like the one in Abraham’s time. Isaac traveled to Gerar where Abimelech was the Philistine king." 
Genesis26:2 Yahweh appeared before Isaac and said, “Do not go down to Egypt. Stay in the land that I will reveal to you." 
Genesis26:3 Live there as a foreigner, and my presence will be with you. I promise to bless you, for I will give all these lands to you and your descendants. I will fulfill the oath I swore to your father Abraham." 
Genesis26:4 I will make your descendants as numerous as the stars of heaven, and I will one day give them all these lands. I will bless all the nations of the earth through your offspring" 
Genesis26:5 because Abraham was faithful to me. He listened to my voice and yielded his heart to follow my direction. He kept my commandments, my instructions, and my teachings.”" 
Genesis26:6 So Isaac settled in Gerar. 
Genesis26:7 The men of the land noticed Rebekah’s beauty and asked Isaac about her. “Oh, she’s just my sister,” he replied. Rebekah was indeed very beautiful, and he was afraid to tell them, “She’s my wife,” for he thought that the men of the land would kill him and take his wife." 
Genesis26:8 One day, after Isaac had lived there awhile, the Philistine king Abimelech looked out his window and saw Isaac affectionately caressing his wife Rebekah." 
Genesis26:9 So Abimelech summoned Isaac and said, “So, this woman is your wife! Why did you say that she was your sister?” “Because I thought the men of the land would kill me and take her,” Isaac said." 
Genesis26:10 “Don’t you realize what you’ve done to us?” Abimelech asked. “One of our men might have slept with your wife, and you would have brought guilt and punishment upon us!”" 
Genesis26:11 So Abimelech issued a stern warning to all the people, saying, “Whoever lays a hand on this man or his wife shall be put to death!”" 
Genesis26:12 Isaac planted crops in that land, and in the same year reaped a hundred-fold harvest, for Yahweh greatly blessed him!" 
Genesis26:13 Isaac grew richer and richer until he was extremely wealthy. 
Genesis26:14 He acquired so many flocks and herds and so many servants that the Philistines grew jealous," 
Genesis26:15 so the Philistines stopped up all of Isaac’s wells and filled them with dirt—the same wells his father’s servants had dug in the time of Abraham. 
Genesis26:16 Eventually Abimelech’s jealousy got the better of him, and he said to Isaac, “You must leave us! You have become too rich and powerful for us!”" 
Genesis26:17 So Isaac departed from Abimelech’s domain and camped near the Wadi of Gerar, where he settled." 
Genesis26:18 Isaac reopened and restored the wells his father Abraham had originally dug—the wells the Philistines had stopped up after Abraham’s death. And Isaac gave these wells the same names that his father had given them. 
Genesis26:19 One day, when Isaac’s servants dug in the valley, they uncovered a spring-fed well." 
Genesis26:20 But the herdsmen of Gerar picked a fight with Isaac’s herdsmen, saying, “That’s our well!” So Isaac named the well Argument because of the sharp contention." 
Genesis26:21 They dug a second well, and it also caused a quarrel, so Isaac named that well Hostility." 
Genesis26:22 Then he pulled up stakes from there and dug a third well, but this one was dug without any quarreling, so Isaac named it Spacious, saying, “Finally, Yahweh has made ample room for us and we will become prosperous in the land!”" 
Genesis26:23 From there, Isaac moved his camp to Beersheba." 
Genesis26:24 That very night, Yahweh appeared before him and said: “I am the God of Abraham your father. You will never need to fear a thing for I am with you and I will greatly bless you. Your children will flourish and succeed because of the promises I gave my servant Abraham.”" 
Genesis26:25 So Isaac built an altar, prayed, and worshiped Yahweh there. He pitched his tent there, and his servants started digging another well." 
Genesis26:26 Then King Abimelech came to Isaac from Gerar with his adviser Ahuzzath and his army commander Phicol. 
Genesis26:27 Isaac asked them, “Why have you come to me now, since you hated me and sent me away?”" 
Genesis26:28 They answered, “We have witnessed firsthand how powerfully Yahweh ’s favor has been with you, so we say, let there be a peace treaty among us. Let us make a covenant" 
Genesis26:29 to do each other no harm. Swear to us that you will not trouble us, just as we have not troubled you and have always treated you well and sent you away in peace. Now look at how Yahweh has blessed you!”" 
Genesis26:30 So Isaac prepared a wonderful feast for them, and they all ate and drank together." 
Genesis26:31 Then the next morning, they got up early and exchanged oaths. Isaac said goodbye to them, and they left Isaac in peace." 
Genesis26:32 Later that same day, Isaac’s servants came with wonderful news about the well they had dug, saying, “We’ve just found water!”" 
Genesis26:33 So he named it Oath. This is why the city where they dug the well is called Beersheba to this day. 
Genesis26:34 When Esau was forty, he married two Hittite women, Judith the daughter of Beeri and Basemath the daughter of Elon." 
Genesis26:35 They made life miserable for Isaac and Rebekah. 
Genesis27:1 When Isaac was very old and blind, he called for his oldest son, Esau, and asked him, “My son?” “ I am here, father,” Esau answered." 
Genesis27:2 “As you can see, I am now an old man,” Isaac said. “And I may die any day now." 
Genesis27:3 So please take your hunting gear—your bow and arrows—and go out into the field and hunt some wild game for me. 
Genesis27:4 Then prepare me a savory meal, the food I love, and bring it to me. After I eat it, I will bless you from my innermost being before I die.”" 
Genesis27:5 Now, Rebekah was eavesdropping on their conversation. So, when Esau left for the field to hunt for game to cook for Isaac," 
Genesis27:6 she found Jacob and said to him, “I just overheard your father say to your brother Esau," 
Genesis27:7 ‘Bring me some wild game and prepare a savory meal for me. Afterward I will bless you in the presence of Yahweh before I die.’ 
Genesis27:8 Listen carefully, my son, and do everything I tell you." 
Genesis27:9 Go out to the flock and bring me two of the best young goats. I’ll cook them for your father and prepare a delicious meal, the way he loves it." 
Genesis27:10 Then, you take it to him to eat and your father will bless you before he dies.”" 
Genesis27:11 Jacob objected, “But my brother Esau is covered with hair, and I’m smooth skinned." 
Genesis27:12 If my father feels my hairless skin, he’ll know I’m not Esau. He’ll think I’m a trickster, and I’ll end up bringing a curse upon myself rather than a blessing!”" 
Genesis27:13 “My son,” his mother said, “let any curse against you fall on me alone! Just do what I say and go and get the goats for me.”" 
Genesis27:14 So he went and got the goats and brought them to his mother. She prepared a delicious meal, just the way his father loved it." 
Genesis27:15 Then Rebekah picked out the best clothes of her older son Esau and put them on her younger son Jacob. 
Genesis27:16 She covered Jacob’s hands and the soft part of his neck with goatskins. 
Genesis27:17 Then she handed Jacob the tasty dish and the bread that she had prepared 
Genesis27:18 and he took them to Isaac. “Father?” Jacob said. Isaac replied, “Which one of my sons are you?”" 
Genesis27:19 Jacob answered, “It’s I—Esau—your firstborn. I have done as you asked. Please, sit up. Eat some of this delicious game you love so that you may give me your innermost blessing.”" 
Genesis27:20 Isaac asked his son, “How in the world did you find game so quickly, my son?” “ Yahweh, your God, caused it to come right to me,” he replied." 
Genesis27:21 Then Isaac said to Jacob, “Please, please, come closer that I may touch you, my son. I need to really know for certain that you are Esau.”" 
Genesis27:22 So Jacob inched closer to his father Isaac, who felt his skin and said, “You sound like Jacob, but your hands are Esau’s.”" 
Genesis27:23 Because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau’s, Isaac was tricked and did not recognize that it was really Jacob. As he was about to give him his blessing," 
Genesis27:24 Isaac asked him again, “Are you really my son Esau?” Jacob answered, “I am.”" 
Genesis27:25 “Then bring the food to me,” Isaac said, “and let me eat my son’s game. Then I will give you my blessing.” So, Jacob gave his father the food and he ate it. He brought him wine and he drank it." 
Genesis27:26 Then Isaac said to him, “My son, come near and kiss me.”" 
Genesis27:27 So he came near and kissed him. Isaac recognized the smell of his son’s clothes and blessed him, saying, “Ah, the smell of my son is like the smell of a lush field that Yahweh has blessed!" 
Genesis27:28 May God give you heaven’s dew, the fatness of earth, and an abundance of grain and new wine!" 
Genesis27:29 Let peoples serve you and nations bow down to you! May you be master over your brothers and may your mother’s sons bow down to you! Those who curse you will be cursed and those who bless you will be blessed!” 
Genesis27:30 No sooner had Jacob left from receiving the blessing of his father Isaac, than his brother Esau arrived home from hunting." 
Genesis27:31 He too prepared a savory meal for his father and took it to him. He said to Isaac, “Sit up my father; eat some of your son’s wild game so that you can give me your innermost blessing.”" 
Genesis27:32 His father Isaac asked him, “Who are you?” “I’m Esau, your firstborn son,” he answered." 
Genesis27:33 When Isaac realized what had happened, he began to tremble and shake violently. He asked, “Who was it then that hunted wild game and brought it to me? I’ve already eaten it all before you came, and I gave him the blessing—yes, and he will be blessed indeed!”" 
Genesis27:34 When Esau heard his father’s words, he burst into bitter weeping and uncontrollable sobbing. He said to his father, “ Bless me! Bless me too, father!”" 
Genesis27:35 Isaac answered, “Your brother was here and deceived me. He has taken away your blessing.”" 
Genesis27:36 Esau exclaimed, “Jacob, that heel grabber —the name fits him perfectly! Now he has tricked me twice! He stole my birthright, and now he’s robbed me of my blessing!” Then he asked, “ Father, haven’t you reserved a blessing for me?”" 
Genesis27:37 Isaac replied, “ You don’t understand. My blessing will empower him to be master over you. I have already given him all his brothers and relatives as servants. My blessing will richly provide him with grain and new wine. What more is left for me to do for you, my son?”" 
Genesis27:38 Esau pleaded with his father, “Is that the only blessing you have to give? Bless me too, my father!” Esau could not hold back his tears and he wept loudly." 
Genesis27:39 Then Isaac his father spoke these words: “You will live far from earth’s bounty and far from heaven’s dew on high. 
Genesis27:40 You will live by the sword and serve your brother; but when you grow restless, you will break free from his control.”" 
Genesis27:41 Esau hated Jacob because he stole his blessing. He said to himself, “In a short time my father will be gone. After the time for mourning his death has passed, I will kill my brother Jacob!”" 
Genesis27:42 But when Rebekah found out about her older son Esau’s plan, she quickly sent for her younger son Jacob, and said to him, “Listen, your brother Esau is planning to exact revenge by killing you." 
Genesis27:43 My son, you must do what I say. Run away at once to my brother Laban in Haran." 
Genesis27:44 You can live with him for a while until your brother calms down. 
Genesis27:45 After your brother’s anger has died down and he has forgotten what you’ve done to him, I will send a messenger to bring you back from there. Why should I lose both my sons in one day?”" 
Genesis27:46 Later, Rebekah said to Isaac, “I’m so disgusted with our Hittite daughters-in-law. I’d rather die than see Jacob marry one of these local girls—these Hittite women!”" 
Genesis28:1 Before Jacob left, Isaac called for him, blessed him, and gave him these instructions: “I forbid you to marry any Canaanite woman." 
Genesis28:2 Leave at once for the land of your grandfather Bethuel in Paddan-Aram and find one of the young women there to marry, one of your uncle Laban’s daughters." 
Genesis28:3 May the God who is always more than enough bless you abundantly. May he make you fruitful and multiply your descendants until you become many tribes! 
Genesis28:4 May he impart to you and your seed the blessing of Abraham so that you may possess the land where you now live as a foreigner—the land God gave to Abraham.” 
Genesis28:5 Then Isaac sent Jacob on his way to Paddan-Aram, the land of his grandfather Bethuel the Aramean, to the home of Laban, Bethuel’s son and the brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau." 
Genesis28:6 Esau had learned that Isaac had blessed Jacob and had sent him away to Paddan-Aram to find a wife there, and that while blessing him, Isaac had instructed him, “Don’t marry a Canaanite woman.”" 
Genesis28:7 Furthermore, Esau found out that Jacob had obeyed his parents and fled to Paddan-Aram." 
Genesis28:8 Esau, knowing that his father Isaac disapproved of Canaanite women," 
Genesis28:9 went to Ishmael’s clan and chose a woman named Mahalath to be one of his wives. She was the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, and sister of Nebaioth." 
Genesis28:10 Jacob left Beersheba and journeyed toward Haran. 
Genesis28:11 He encountered a certain place at sunset and camped there for the night. He took a stone from there, made it his pillow, and lay down to sleep." 
Genesis28:12 He had a dream of a stairway securely fixed on the earth and reaching into heaven. And there were messengers of God ascending and descending on the stairway. 
Genesis28:13 And Yahweh stood beside him and said to him, “I am Yahweh, the God of your father Abraham and the God of Isaac. You are lying on the very ground that I will give to you and your descendants." 
Genesis28:14 They will become as numerous as the specks of dust on the earth, and they will extend their territory in all directions. Through you and your descendants, I will bless the whole world." 
Genesis28:15 Never forget—I am always with you and will protect you wherever you go. And one day I will bring you back to this land, for I will neither leave you nor fail to fulfill every word I have promised you.”" 
Genesis28:16 When Jacob awoke from his dream, he was overcome with awe and said, “ Yahweh is here! He is in this place and I didn’t realize it!”" 
Genesis28:17 Terrified and overwhelmed, he said, “How awesome is this place! I have stumbled right into the House of God! This place is a portal, the very gate of heaven!”" 
Genesis28:18 Early in the morning, Jacob took the stone he had under his head, set it up as a pillar and anointed it by pouring oil over the top of it." 
Genesis28:19 He named that place Bethel; though the city was once called Luz. 
Genesis28:20 Then Jacob committed himself to God, saying, “If you will always be with me and protect me on this long journey, and if you give me bread to eat and clothing to wear," 
Genesis28:21 and if I return safely to my father’s house, then Yahweh, you will be my God!" 
Genesis28:22 See! I have set up this sacred stone pillar and it will be your house, God. I promise to set aside a tenth of all that you give me as my gift to you.”" 
Genesis29:1 Jacob resumed his journey and entered the land east of Canaan. 
Genesis29:2 One day, Jacob came to a well out in the open country where the shepherds watered their animals. Three flocks of sheep and goats were lying near the well, which had a large, heavy stone covering the opening." 
Genesis29:3 Whenever all the flocks gathered there, the shepherds would roll away the stone from the mouth of the well, water their sheep, and then roll the stone back over the top of the well." 
Genesis29:4 Jacob approached them and said, “Good day, friends; where are you from?” “We’re from Haran,” they answered." 
Genesis29:5 “Do you happen to know Laban, a grandson of Nahor?” Jacob said. “We do,” they replied." 
Genesis29:6 Jacob asked, “How’s he doing?” “He’s doing well,” they answered. “As a matter of fact, here comes his daughter Rachel right now with her flock.”" 
Genesis29:7 Jacob said to them, “Look, it’s not time for the animals to gather together here; it’s now the hottest hour of the day. Let’s go ahead and water the sheep, then you can go and pasture them.”" 
Genesis29:8 They replied, “First, we have to wait until all the flocks are gathered. After that, the stone needs to be rolled away from the mouth of the well, then we’ll water the animals.”" 
Genesis29:9 While they were still speaking, Rachel, the shepherdess, drew near to the well with her father’s sheep." 
Genesis29:10 As soon as Jacob took one good look at Rachel, the beautiful daughter of his uncle Laban, he quickly went over to the mouth of the well and single-handedly rolled away the stone and watered all the flock of his uncle Laban!" 
Genesis29:11 Immediately, he walked up to Rachel and kissed her! Unable to hold back his tears, Jacob wept aloud." 
Genesis29:12 After he composed himself, he explained to Rachel, “I’m your father’s nephew, your aunt Rebekah’s son.” Upon hearing this, Rachel ran to tell her father." 
Genesis29:13 When Laban heard the news that his nephew Jacob had arrived at the well, he ran to greet him. Laban hugged and kissed Jacob and welcomed him into his home. After Jacob told him the story of all that happened," 
Genesis29:14 Laban said to him, “Certainly, you are my own flesh and blood!” Jacob stayed with him for an entire month and worked for him." 
Genesis29:15 Afterward, Laban said to Jacob, “Just because you’re my relative doesn’t mean I expect you to work for nothing. Tell me, what do you want your wages to be?”" 
Genesis29:16 (Now, Laban had two daughters; the older was Leah, and the younger was Rachel." 
Genesis29:17 Rachel had a lovely figure and was gorgeous, but Leah’s eyes were weak.)" 
Genesis29:18 Jacob had fallen in love with Rachel, so he answered Laban, “I will serve you for seven years for the hand of your younger daughter, Rachel!”" 
Genesis29:19 Laban replied, “I’d rather give her to you than to some other man. Stay and work for me.”" 
Genesis29:20 So Jacob served Laban for seven years in exchange for Rachel, but because he loved her so deeply, the seven years seemed like only a few days." 
Genesis29:21 After the seven years, Jacob said to Laban, “My time is fulfilled; give me your daughter so that I may marry her and sleep with her.”" 
Genesis29:22 So Laban prepared a wedding feast and invited all the people of the surrounding area. 
Genesis29:23 That night, Laban tricked Jacob by bringing his older daughter Leah to Jacob’s tent, and he slept with her on his wedding night!" 
Genesis29:24 (Laban assigned Zilpah to be Leah’s servant.) 
Genesis29:25 When Jacob woke up the next morning, he was shocked to find Leah lying next to him! So he confronted Laban and said, “What have you done to me? Didn’t I serve you these seven years for Rachel? Why have you tricked me?”" 
Genesis29:26 Laban answered, “It’s not our custom here to give the younger daughter in marriage before the older daughter is married." 
Genesis29:27 Wait until this bridal week of festivities is over, then I’ll give you Rachel, but you must serve me for another seven years.”" 
Genesis29:28 Jacob complied with Laban’s request. After he completed the prescribed week of Leah’s wedding feast, Laban gave his daughter Rachel to be his wife, and he slept with her. Rachel was his true love, not Leah. (Laban assigned Bilhah as his daughter Rachel’s servant.) And Jacob remained there serving Laban for another seven years." 
Genesis29:29  
Genesis29:30  
Genesis29:31 When Yahweh saw that Leah was unloved, he opened her womb, but Rachel remained childless." 
Genesis29:32 Leah conceived, gave birth to a son, and named him Reuben, saying, “Because Yahweh looked upon me with compassion in my misery, surely, my husband will love me now!”" 
Genesis29:33 She conceived again, gave birth to a son, and named him Simeon, saying, “ Yahweh has heard that I am despised, and in his mercy, he has given me this son also.”" 
Genesis29:34 Leah conceived the third time, gave birth to a son, and named him Levi, saying, “This time my husband will be joined to me, because now I’ve given him three sons!”" 
Genesis29:35 Once again, Leah conceived and gave birth to a son. She named him Judah, saying, “This time I will praise the Lord!” Then she stopped bearing children for a while." 
Genesis30:1 When Rachel saw that she could not give Jacob children, her jealousy toward her sister simmered. So, she said to Jacob, “Give me sons, or I’ll die!”" 
Genesis30:2 Jacob became furious with Rachel and said, “Am I God? He’s the one keeping you from bearing children!”" 
Genesis30:3 She replied, “Here’s my servant Bilhah. Sleep with her. She can be my surrogate; then I can have children through her and build a family.”" 
Genesis30:4 So Rachel gave her servant Bilhah to Jacob as another wife, and Jacob slept with her." 
Genesis30:5 And Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son," 
Genesis30:6 and Rachel named him Dan, saying, “God has vindicated me. He heard my voice and gave me a son.”" 
Genesis30:7 Then her servant Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a second son. 
Genesis30:8 Rachel named him Naphtali, saying, “I have wrestled mightily with my sister, and I won!”" 
Genesis30:9 Meanwhile, when Leah saw that she had ceased bearing children, she took her servant Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as another wife." 
Genesis30:10 Zilpah bore Jacob a son, and Leah named him Gad, saying, “What good fortune!”" 
Genesis30:11  
Genesis30:12 Zilpah bore Jacob a second son," 
Genesis30:13 and Leah named him Asher, saying, “Oh happy day! All the women will say, ‘She’s happy now!’ ”" 
Genesis30:14 One day, during wheat harvest, Reuben found some mandrake plants in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Rachel said to Leah, “Please give me some of your son’s mandrakes.”" 
Genesis30:15 Leah replied, “You already took away the affection of my husband, so now you’re going to take my son’s mandrakes, too?” Rachel said, “All right then, I’ll let him sleep with you tonight in exchange for some of your son’s mandrakes.”" 
Genesis30:16 That evening, when Jacob was coming home from the field, Leah went out to meet him and said, “You must sleep with me tonight, for I’ve paid for your services with my son’s mandrakes.” So Jacob slept with Leah that night." 
Genesis30:17 God listened compassionately to Leah’s cry, she became pregnant, and bore Jacob a fifth son," 
Genesis30:18 whom she named Issachar, saying, “God rewarded me for giving my maidservant to my husband.”" 
Genesis30:19 Once again, Leah conceived and bore Jacob a sixth son," 
Genesis30:20 whom she named Zebulun, saying, “God has given me good gifts for my husband! Now he will accept me, for I’ve given him six sons.”" 
Genesis30:21 Lastly, Leah gave birth to a daughter and named her Dinah." 
Genesis30:22 God listened to Rachel’s heart-cry, and had compassion on her, and made her fertile." 
Genesis30:23 She conceived, and bore a son, and named him Joseph, saying, “God has taken away my disgrace. May Yahweh add to me another son.”" 
Genesis30:24  
Genesis30:25 After Rachel gave birth to Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Release me to go back home to my homeland." 
Genesis30:26 You know how hard I’ve worked for you these many years to finish paying for my two wives. Give them to me along with my children, and I’ll be on my way.”" 
Genesis30:27 Laban countered, “If you please, I have learned by divine inquiry that I have become prosperous because of you and the blessing of Yahweh that’s on your life." 
Genesis30:28 Just name your price, and I’ll give it to you.”" 
Genesis30:29 Jacob replied, “You know how hard I’ve worked for you and how your livestock has increased under my care." 
Genesis30:30 The little you had before I came has multiplied greatly, for Yahweh has blessed you wonderfully because I am here. But now, I need to provide for my own family, too.”" 
Genesis30:31 So Laban asked, “What should I give you?” “Nothing,” Jacob replied, “You don’t need to give me a thing. If you will do but one thing for me, I will continue to care for your flocks:" 
Genesis30:32 Just let me pass through all your flocks today and take out every speckled and spotted sheep or goat, and every black lamb. That’s all the payment I ask." 
Genesis30:33 And in the future, when you review my wages, the integrity of my dealings with you will be obvious. If you find any animal among mine that is not speckled, spotted, or black, then you will know that I stole it.”" 
Genesis30:34 “Agreed!” Laban said. “We’ll do what you’ve suggested.” 
Genesis30:35 But that same day, Laban secretly removed all the male and female goats that were speckled or spotted (all that had white on them) and all the black lambs and left them under the care of his sons." 
Genesis30:36 He set a distance of a three-day journey between himself and Jacob, while Jacob continued to tend the rest of Laban’s flocks." 
Genesis30:37 Jacob, however, cut green branches of poplar, almond, and plane trees and peeled back part of their bark, to expose the white inner wood of the branches." 
Genesis30:38 Then he set the partially peeled branches inside the water troughs where the goats would see them when they came to drink. 
Genesis30:39 For they mated when they came to the water troughs, and as they lowered their heads to drink, they saw the stripped branches in front of their eyes. Miraculously they gave birth to streaked, speckled, and spotted young." 
Genesis30:40 But with the mating ewes, on the other hand, he made them face the streaked or completely black animals in Laban’s flock. By doing this, he produced his own special flocks, which he didn’t allow to mingle with Laban’s." 
Genesis30:41 Moreover, every time the stronger females were in heat, Jacob laid the partially peeled branches in the water troughs in front of the flock, so that they would mate among the branches." 
Genesis30:42 But he didn’t place the branches in front of the scrawny goats when they mated, leaving the feeble animals for Laban and the stronger for himself." 
Genesis30:43 In this way, Jacob quickly grew very wealthy and owned large flocks, a great number of camels and donkeys, and many male and female servants." 
Genesis31:1 Now Jacob heard that the sons of Laban were complaining, “Everything Jacob owns he has taken from our father! He gained all his wealth from what our father owned.”" 
Genesis31:2 And Jacob saw that Laban no longer viewed him favorably as he once did. 
Genesis31:3 Then Yahweh said to Jacob, “Return to the land of your ancestors where you were born; and remember, I will be with you.”" 
Genesis31:4 So Jacob sent a message for Leah and Rachel to meet him in the field where his flocks were grazing. 
Genesis31:5 When they arrived, he said to them, “I can see that your father’s attitude toward me has changed, but the God of my father has been with me." 
Genesis31:6 You both know I have worked for your father as hard as I could," 
Genesis31:7 although he has cheated me and reduced my wages over and over. Yet God has not allowed him to harm me. 
Genesis31:8 If he said, ‘The speckled ones will be your wages,’ then all the flock bore speckled. If he said, ‘The striped ones will be your wages,’ then all the flock bore striped." 
Genesis31:9 Because of these miracles, God has taken away your father’s livestock and given them to me!”" 
Genesis31:10 Jacob continued, “Once during the breeding season, I had a dream. I saw that the male goats who were mating were all speckled, streaked, or spotted." 
Genesis31:11 In the dream, the angel of God called me by my name, ‘Jacob.’ ” “ ‘I am here,’ I answered." 
Genesis31:12 “Then he said, ‘Observe and note that all the male goats that are mating are speckled, streaked, or spotted, for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you." 
Genesis31:13 I am the God who appeared to you at Bethel, where you anointed a pillar and made a vow to me. Now leave this land at once and return to the land of your birth.’ ”" 
Genesis31:14 Then Rachel and Leah answered him, “Our father doesn’t want us to inherit a portion from his estate." 
Genesis31:15 Hasn’t he treated us as outsiders and not as members of his family? Not only did he sell us like property, but he has also spent our purchase price!" 
Genesis31:16 Our father’s wealth that God has given you was legally ours and our children to begin with! So, go ahead and do whatever God has told you.”" 
Genesis31:17 Jacob immediately put his wives and children on camels 
Genesis31:18 and took with him all the livestock and everything he had amassed in Paddan-Aram. He set out to return to his father Isaac in the land of Canaan. 
Genesis31:19 One day, when Laban had gone to his fields to shear his sheep, Rachel stole her father’s household idols." 
Genesis31:20 Jacob had outwitted Laban the Aramean by secretly departing without telling him. 
Genesis31:21 He fled with all that he had, and after crossing the Euphrates, he headed for the hill country of Gilead." 
Genesis31:22 And it wasn’t until three days later that Laban discovered Jacob had left. 
Genesis31:23 Laban, along with some of his relatives, took off in pursuit and chased after Jacob for seven days. He had almost caught up with him in the hill country of Gilead," 
Genesis31:24 when God appeared to Laban the Aramean in a dream and warned him, “Be careful that you neither harm nor threaten Jacob.”" 
Genesis31:25 Now Jacob had set up his camp with his flocks on a hill, and Laban had him in his sights. Laban and his companions set up their camp nearby." 
Genesis31:26 Laban approached Jacob and said, “ Nephew, what have you done? You’ve deceived me and carried away my daughters like captives on a battlefield." 
Genesis31:27 Why did you trick me and run away in secret without telling me? I would have sent you off joyously, celebrating with singing and dancing to the tambourine and stringed instruments." 
Genesis31:28 And why did you not even let me kiss my daughters and grandchildren goodbye? What you have done is foolish! 
Genesis31:29 I could harm you, but the God of your father spoke to me in a dream last night, saying, ‘Be careful that you neither harm nor threaten Jacob.’" 
Genesis31:30 Now I realize you ran away because you desperately long to return to your father’s house, but why did you steal my gods?”" 
Genesis31:31 “ I left in a hurry because I was afraid,” Jacob answered, “and I thought you would take your daughters from me by force." 
Genesis31:32 Whoever has taken your gods will be put to death! So here, in the presence of our relatives, if you can find among our possessions anything that is yours, take it.” Now Jacob had no clue that Rachel had stolen the gods." 
Genesis31:33 Laban went immediately into Jacob’s tent to search. Then he went into the tents of Zilpah and Bilhah but found nothing. After searching Leah’s tent, he went into Rachel’s." 
Genesis31:34 Now Rachel had taken the family gods and put them in her camel’s cushion and sat on them. 
Genesis31:35 She said to her father, “Please my father, don’t be angry if I don’t rise before you, for I’m having my period.” When he rummaged through her tent, he did not find them." 
Genesis31:36 Then Jacob became angry and complained to Laban, “What have I done wrong? What sin have I committed that you would hotly pursue me as if you were chasing a criminal?" 
Genesis31:37 You have rummaged through all my things, and did you find anything of your own property? If you did, set them here in front of your relatives and mine. Let them decide between the two of us.”" 
Genesis31:38 Jacob continued, “For the last twenty years I have served you, and the whole time your sheep and goats did not miscarry, nor did I feast on any of your rams." 
Genesis31:39 If one from your flock was mauled by a wild beast, I didn’t bring it to you; I absorbed the loss myself. And you always made me pay for any missing animal, whether snatched by day or by night." 
Genesis31:40 Many times, scorching heat consumed me by day and hard frost by night; I endured sleepless nights." 
Genesis31:41 For these twenty years that I’ve lived among you, I slaved away fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flocks. And besides all that, you’ve reduced my wages over and over." 
Genesis31:42 If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the Awesome One of Isaac, had not been on my side, you certainly would have sent me away empty-handed! But God in his mercy took notice of how much I’ve suffered and how hard I’ve worked—and that’s why he rebuked you last night in your dream!”" 
Genesis31:43 Laban replied to Jacob, “These women are my daughters, these children are my grandchildren; and the flocks are mine. In fact, everything you see belongs to me. But from today I will not be able to do anything more for my daughters and grandchildren." 
Genesis31:44 Come now, let’s form a covenant between you and me. Let it endure as a witness between us.”" 
Genesis31:45 So Jacob took a stone, set it up as a pillar," 
Genesis31:46 and in the presence of his relatives, he said to them, “Everyone gather stones, and place them here in a pile.” And they did so, and afterward, they ate together next to the heap of stones." 
Genesis31:47 Laban and Jacob named the place in both languages, Aramaic and Hebrew, calling it Witness Heap." 
Genesis31:48 And Laban said, “Today, this heap of stones will be a witness between you and me of our enduring friendship.” He called it Witness Heap" 
Genesis31:49 and Watchpost, for Laban declared, “May Yahweh keep his eyes on us when we are absent from each other." 
Genesis31:50 If you mistreat my daughters or marry other women besides my daughters, remember that even though no one else is with us, God is watching us." 
Genesis31:51 Here is the heap of stones and here is the memorial pillar that stands between us. 
Genesis31:52 This heap and this pillar stand as witnesses that I will never pass beyond them to harm you and that you will never pass beyond them to harm me. 
Genesis31:53 Now may the God of Abraham and the god of Nahor judge between us!” Jacob made his vow by the Awesome One of his father Isaac. 
Genesis31:54 Then Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain and called everyone together for a meal, and they remained there all night on the mountain." 
Genesis31:55 Early the next morning, Laban kissed his daughters and grandchildren, blessed them, and then he returned home." 
Genesis32:1 As Jacob continued toward Canaan, the angels of God came to meet him!" 
Genesis32:2 When he saw them, he exclaimed, “This is God’s military camp!” So he named that place Two Camps of Angels." 
Genesis32:3 Jacob sent messengers ahead to his brother Esau who was living in the land of Seir, the country of Edom." 
Genesis32:4 He instructed them, “Give this message from me to my master Esau, ‘I am your servant. I have lived with our uncle Laban all these years" 
Genesis32:5 and have acquired sheep, cattle, donkeys, and both male and female servants. I send this message to you, my master, in the hope of finding favor in your eyes.’ ”" 
Genesis32:6 When the messengers returned to Jacob, they informed him, “We gave your brother Esau your message, and he himself is coming here to meet you. In fact, he’s on his way now with four hundred men!”" 
Genesis32:7 Gripped with fear to the point of panic, Jacob split all the people who were with him into two camps, and also the flocks, herds, and camels." 
Genesis32:8 He said to himself, “If Esau attacks the first camp and destroys them, at least the other camp will escape.”" 
Genesis32:9 Then Jacob prayed, “ Yahweh, God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, you said to me, ‘Return to your country and to your family, and I will make you prosper.’" 
Genesis32:10 I am so unworthy of all the loving-kindness and faithfulness that you have showered upon me, your servant. When I crossed this river Jordan years ago, all I had to my name was a staff in my hand, and now I have increased to become two camps!" 
Genesis32:11 Save me, I pray, from the hand of my brother Esau, for I’m afraid he will come and kill all of us, including the women and children." 
Genesis32:12 You said to me, ‘I will certainly prosper you and make your offspring as innumerable as the sand of the sea.’ ”" 
Genesis32:13 So he spent the night there. From what he had with him, Jacob sent a gift to his brother Esau:" 
Genesis32:14 two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams," 
Genesis32:15 thirty female camels and their calves, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys." 
Genesis32:16 He placed them in the care of his servants, each herd by itself. He told them, “Go on ahead of me, and put some space between each herd.”" 
Genesis32:17 He gave these instructions to the one in the lead, “When my brother Esau meets you, and asks, ‘Who is your master? Where are you going? Who owns these herds you are driving?’" 
Genesis32:18 then you are to say, ‘They belong to your servant Jacob. He’s sent them as a gift to you, my lord Esau, and he is coming behind us.’ ”" 
Genesis32:19 He likewise instructed the leaders of the second and the third herds and all those following them, “You must say the same thing when you meet Esau." 
Genesis32:20 And be sure to say, ‘Your servant Jacob is coming behind us,’ ” because he reasoned, “If I can appease Esau with these gifts before I have to meet him face-to-face, he may accept me.”" 
Genesis32:21 So he sent the gifts on ahead of him, while he spent that night in the camp." 
Genesis32:22 During the night, Jacob arose, woke up his two wives, his two maidservants, and eleven sons, and had them cross the ford of the Jabbok River." 
Genesis32:23 He sent them across along with everything he had," 
Genesis32:24 and Jacob was left all alone. Suddenly, out of nowhere, a man appeared and wrestled with him until daybreak." 
Genesis32:25 When the man saw that he was not winning the match, he struck Jacob’s hip and knocked it out of joint, leaving it wrenched as he continued to wrestle with him." 
Genesis32:26 Eventually, the man said to him, “Let me go, for the day is breaking.” But Jacob refused. “No! Not until you bless me!”" 
Genesis32:27 “What is your name?” asked the man. “Jacob,” he replied." 
Genesis32:28 “Not anymore,” the man said to him. “Your new name is Israel, for you have struggled both with God and with people and have overcome.”" 
Genesis32:29 Jacob said, “Please, tell me your name.” “Why ask my name?” the man replied, then he spoke a blessing over Jacob." 
Genesis32:30 So Jacob named the place Penuel, saying, “I have seen God face-to-face, yet my life has been spared!”" 
Genesis32:31 The sun rose upon him as he crossed the Jabbok River from Penuel, limping because of his hip." 
Genesis32:32 To this day, the Israelites do not eat the thigh muscle attached to the hip socket, because the man struck Jacob’s hip socket at the thigh muscle." 
Genesis33:1 When Jacob looked up, he saw Esau approaching with four hundred men. So he quickly divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the two maidservants." 
Genesis33:2 He lined up the maidservants and their children in front, then Leah and her children, then Rachel and Joseph last of all." 
Genesis33:3 Then Jacob went ahead of them to face Esau. As he approached his brother, he bowed down to the ground seven times before reaching him." 
Genesis33:4 But Esau ran to Jacob and hugged him! He threw his arms around Jacob’s neck, he kissed him, and they wept in each other’s arms." 
Genesis33:5 When Esau looked up and saw the women and the children, he said to Jacob, “Who are all these coming behind you?” Jacob replied, “These are the children, your niece and nephews, whom God has so graciously given your servant.”" 
Genesis33:6 Then the maidservants came forward with their children and bowed low before Esau. 
Genesis33:7 Leah likewise came forward with her children and bowed down. Finally, Rachel and Joseph came forward and they bowed down to the ground before Esau." 
Genesis33:8 Esau asked Jacob, “Why did you send all these animals to me?” “I was hoping to find favor with you, my lord,” Jacob replied." 
Genesis33:9 “But my brother,” Esau laughed, “I have plenty. Keep what you have for yourself.”" 
Genesis33:10 Jacob replied, “No, please. If I have found favor in your eyes, please take the gifts. For truly, seeing your face after all these years, it’s like looking upon the face of God! Since you have received me so warmly," 
Genesis33:11 please accept the blessing I have brought to you, for God has poured his grace over me, and I have everything I want!” So with these words Jacob urged him, and Esau accepted the gifts." 
Genesis33:12 Then Esau said, “Let’s start out on our journey, and I’ll walk alongside you.”" 
Genesis33:13 But Jacob replied, “My lord, you can see how tired the children are, and all our flocks and herds are nursing their young. If we drive them too hard for even a day, they will die." 
Genesis33:14 Please, my lord, go ahead of your servant. Let me move along slowly with my flocks and herds, to give them a chance to graze. I must think of my children, too, so go ahead of me, my lord, until I catch up with you in Seir.”" 
Genesis33:15 Esau said, “Well, at least let me leave you with some of my men.” “You’re so kind,” Jacob replied, “but there’s no need to do so.”" 
Genesis33:16 So that very day Esau and his men left to return to Seir," 
Genesis33:17 but Jacob went the opposite direction to Succoth instead, and built himself a house there. He also built shelters for his livestock, and that is why Jacob named the place Succoth." 
Genesis33:18 Jacob’s journey home from Paddan-Aram finally brought him safe and sound to the Canaanite city of Shechem, where he camped just outside of the city." 
Genesis33:19 He purchased the field where he pitched his tent from the clan of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for one hundred pieces of silver." 
Genesis33:20 There he set up an altar and named it To the True God, the God of Israel." 
Genesis34:1 One day, Jacob and Leah’s daughter, Dinah, went out to visit the neighborhood girls." 
Genesis34:2 Now Hamor, the tribal chief of the Hivites, had a son named Shechem, who was the prince. When he saw how attractive Dinah was, he seized her and sexually assaulted her." 
Genesis34:3 His heart was drawn to Dinah, Jacob’s daughter, so he sought to win her affection and spoke tenderly to her." 
Genesis34:4 Shechem went to his father Hamor and said, “Get me this girl to be my wife.”" 
Genesis34:5 Now Jacob heard that Shechem had violated his daughter Dinah; but his sons were in the fields with his livestock, so he waited to act until his sons returned home." 
Genesis34:6 Shechem’s father Hamor brought his son to speak with Jacob about marriage arrangements. 
Genesis34:7 During their conversation, Jacob’s sons came in from the field, and they heard the report of what Shechem had done to their sister Dinah. They were shocked and furious over the shameful act Shechem committed against Israel —a criminal act of sexual assault that never should have happened." 
Genesis34:8 But Hamor tried to defuse the situation, saying, “Listen, my son Shechem is in love with your daughter. Please, give her to him in marriage." 
Genesis34:9 Let’s allow our people to intermarry. Let your daughters marry our sons, and we will let our daughters marry your sons." 
Genesis34:10 You may settle here among us, live anywhere you wish, move about freely, and acquire property.”" 
Genesis34:11 Then Shechem spoke up and said to Dinah’s family, “Please, let me find favor in your eyes. Whatever you require of me, I’ll pay." 
Genesis34:12 Set the bride-price as high as you wish, no matter how expensive it is; I’ll pay whatever you ask. Only give me the young woman to be my wife.”" 
Genesis34:13 The sons of Jacob concocted a devious plan. Because of the rape of their sister Dinah, they answered Shechem and Hamor deceitfully," 
Genesis34:14 saying, “Our culture will not allow us to consent to our sister Dinah marrying someone who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us." 
Genesis34:15 We would only approve of the marriage on one condition: you must circumcise every male among you and become as we are. 
Genesis34:16 Then we will allow our daughters to marry your sons and your daughters to marry our sons. And we will live among you and become one people. 
Genesis34:17 But if you refuse to be circumcised, then we will take our sister and be gone.”" 
Genesis34:18 The offer pleased Hamor and his son Shechem. 
Genesis34:19 And the young man lost no time in doing what they asked, because Shechem really wanted to marry Jacob’s daughter! Now Shechem was the most honored in all his family," 
Genesis34:20 so Hamor and his son went to the gate of the city and spoke to the men, saying," 
Genesis34:21 “These people are our friends. Let them settle in our land and make themselves at home; there’s plenty of room in the country for them. And, let’s agree to exchange our daughters in marriage to them and to unite us as one people." 
Genesis34:22 They only have one condition in order to live among us and to unite with us as one people: every male among us must be circumcised as they are circumcised. 
Genesis34:23 Won’t all of their livestock and property become ours? Let us agree to their request, so they will live among us.”" 
Genesis34:24 So all the townsmen agreed with Hamor and his son Shechem, and every male of the city was circumcised." 
Genesis34:25 Three days later, while all the men were still suffering in pain, two of Jacob’s sons, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, took their swords and attacked the unsuspecting city. They slaughtered every male of the city." 
Genesis34:26 They even killed Hamor and his son Shechem, and took Dinah from Shechem’s house, and left." 
Genesis34:27 Later, Jacob’s other sons came upon the dead bodies, and they looted the city as retribution for the violation of their sister." 
Genesis34:28 They seized the flocks, herds, and donkeys, and all that was in the city and in the field." 
Genesis34:29 They plundered all their wealth and their household goods and took their wives and children as captives. 
Genesis34:30 When Jacob found out, he said to Simeon and Levi, “ What have you done? You have ruined my name, and now the Canaanites and Perizzites and all the people of this land will hate me! My men are so few that if they unite against me and attack, I and all my household will be destroyed!”" 
Genesis34:31 But they answered him, “Why should they treat our sister like a whore?”" 
Genesis35:1 God said to Jacob, “Arise, go at once to Bethel, and settle there. Build an altar there to God, who appeared to you when you were fleeing from your brother Esau.”" 
Genesis35:2 So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, “Get rid of every foreign god you have, purify yourselves, and change your clothes." 
Genesis35:3 Then come with me; let us go up to Bethel. I will build an altar there to God who answered my prayer when I was in distress and whose presence has been with me wherever I have gone.” 
Genesis35:4 Then they surrendered all the foreign gods they had as well as their earrings. Jacob buried them under the oak tree near Shechem. 
Genesis35:5 As they made their way to Bethel, a tremendous fear of God fell upon all the cities around them, and no one dared pursue them." 
Genesis35:6 Jacob and all the people who were with him arrived in the land of Canaan at Luz, now known as Bethel." 
Genesis35:7 He built an altar there and named it El-Bethel, because it was the place that God had unveiled himself when Jacob was running from his brother." 
Genesis35:8 During that time, Rebekah’s nurse Deborah died. They buried her under an oak tree near Bethel, and they named the place Weeping Oak." 
Genesis35:9 After Jacob returned from Paddan-Aram, God appeared to him once again and blessed him," 
Genesis35:10 saying, “Your name was once Jacob, but no longer. Your new name is Israel!” God named him Israel" 
Genesis35:11 and said to him, “I am the God who is more than enough. Go and have many children, and they will multiply. A nation and a gathering of many nations will come from you; and you will be the ancestor of kings." 
Genesis35:12 I will give you the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaac, and after you are gone, to your descendants.”" 
Genesis35:13 Then God ascended into heaven from the place where he had spoken to him. 
Genesis35:14 Jacob set up a stone pillar to memorialize the place where he had met with God. He poured over it a drink offering and anointed the pillar with oil. 
Genesis35:15 Jacob called the place where God had spoken with him Bethel. 
Genesis35:16 From Bethel, they journeyed on, and as they were approaching Ephrath, Rachel went into very hard and painful labor." 
Genesis35:17 As she was having great difficulty in giving birth, the midwife said to her, “Don’t be afraid, for you’re having another son!”" 
Genesis35:18 With her dying breath, Rachel said, “His name is Son of My Sorrow,” but his father called him Son of My Right Hand." 
Genesis35:19 Rachel died and was buried on the road to Ephrath (now Bethlehem). 
Genesis35:20 Jacob set up a pillar to mark her burial site, and it is known as The Marker of Rachel’s Tomb to this day." 
Genesis35:21 Israel journeyed on and pitched his tent beyond Migdal Eder. 
Genesis35:22 While Israel was living in that land, Reuben went and slept with Bilhah, his father’s concubine, and Israel found out. Jacob had twelve sons." 
Genesis35:23 Leah’s sons were Reuben (Jacob’s firstborn), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun." 
Genesis35:24 Rachel’s sons were Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis35:25 The sons of Rachel’s maidservant Bilhah were Dan and Naphtali. 
Genesis35:26 The sons of Leah’s maidservant Zilpah were Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob born to him in Paddan-Aram. 
Genesis35:27 Jacob came home to his father Isaac in Mamre, near Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had lived as foreigners." 
Genesis35:28 Isaac was one hundred and eighty when he breathed his last and died. 
Genesis35:29 He died an old man and had lived a full life when he joined his ancestors. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him there. 
Genesis36:1 Here are the descendants of Esau, also known as Edom:" 
Genesis36:2 Esau chose three wives from among Canaanite women: Adah (daughter of Elon the Hittite), Oholibamah (daughter of Anah son of Zibeon the Hivite), and Basemath (Ishmael’s daughter, sister of Nebaioth)." 
Genesis36:3  
Genesis36:4 Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau; Basemath bore Reuel; 
Genesis36:5 and Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons who were born to Esau in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis36:6 Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and his entire household, and the cattle, livestock, and possessions he had acquired in the land of Canaan, and migrated to the land of Seir some distance from his brother Jacob." 
Genesis36:7 Since the land where Jacob was living could not support their combined possessions and livestock," 
Genesis36:8 Esau (also known as Edom), settled in the hill country of Seir." 
Genesis36:9 This is the account of Esau, ancestor of the Edomites in the hill country of Seir:" 
Genesis36:10 Esau’s wife Adah bore him one son Eliphaz, and Eliphaz had five sons: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. Eliphaz also had a son with his concubine Timna, named Amelek. Esau’s wife Basemath bore him one son Reuel, and Reuel had four sons: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah." 
Genesis36:11  
Genesis36:12  
Genesis36:13  
Genesis36:14 Esau’s wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah and granddaughter of Zibeon, bore Esau three sons: Jeush, Jalam, and Korah." 
Genesis36:15 These are the tribes descended from Esau’s firstborn son Eliphaz whom Adah bore, and who lived in Edom: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz, Korah, Gatam, and Amalek." 
Genesis36:16  
Genesis36:17 These are the tribes descended from Esau and Basemath’s son Reuel, who lived in Edom: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah." 
Genesis36:18 These are the tribes descended from Esau’s wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah: Jeush, Jalam, and Korah." 
Genesis36:19 This concludes the list of the descendants of Esau (also known as Edom) and their respective tribes. 
Genesis36:20 These are the tribes descended from Seir the Horite, of the original inhabitants of Edom: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. All of these were the descendants of Seir." 
Genesis36:21  
Genesis36:22 Lotan’s sons were Hori and Heman, and Lotan’s sister was Timna." 
Genesis36:23 Shobal’s sons were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam." 
Genesis36:24 Zibeon’s sons were Aiah and Anah. This is the Anah who discovered the springs in the wilderness while he was grazing the donkeys of his father Zibeon. 
Genesis36:25 Anah’s son was Dishon, and Anah’s daughter was Oholibamah." 
Genesis36:26 Dishon’s sons were Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran." 
Genesis36:27 Ezer’s sons were Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan." 
Genesis36:28 Dishan’s sons were Uz and Aran. 
Genesis36:29 This concludes the list of the Horite tribes in the land of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan." 
Genesis36:30  
Genesis36:31 Long before the Israelites had kings, there were eight kings who reigned in Edom," 
Genesis36:32 beginning with Bela son of Beor from the city of Dinhabah. 
Genesis36:33 When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from the city of Bozrah succeeded." 
Genesis36:33 When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from the city of Bozrah succeeded." 
Genesis36:34 When Jobab died, Husham from the land of Teman succeeded him." 
Genesis36:34 When Jobab died, Husham from the land of Teman succeeded him." 
Genesis36:35 When Husham died, Hadad from the city of Avith, who was the son of Bedad, succeeded him. Hadad defeated the Midianites in the land of Moab." 
Genesis36:36 When Hadad died, Samlah of Masrekah succeeded him." 
Genesis36:37 When Samlah died, Shaul of Rehoboth-on-the-River succeeded him." 
Genesis36:38 When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Achbor succeeded him." 
Genesis36:39 When Baal-Hanan son of Achbor died, Hadar from the city of Pau succeeded him. (His wife was Mehetabel the daughter of Matred, Me-Zahab’s granddaughter.)" 
Genesis36:40 These are the tribes of Esau according to their clans and regions: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
Genesis36:41  
Genesis36:42  
Genesis36:43 Magdiel, and Iram. This concludes the list of the Edomite tribes who settled and possessed land in different regions of their country. All the Edomites descended from Esau." 
Genesis37:1 This is the story of the family of Jacob, who had settled in the land of Canaan, where his father Isaac had lived as an immigrant. Jacob’s son Joseph was seventeen, and he served his older half brothers, the sons of his father’s wives Bilhah and Zilpah, helping them watch over the flocks. One day Joseph went to his father with a bad report about their behavior." 
Genesis37:2  
Genesis37:3 Now Israel’s love for Joseph surpassed that for his other sons because he was born to him in his old age. So Israel had made him a richly ornamented robe. 
Genesis37:4 When Joseph’s brothers saw that their father loved him more than he loved them, they hated him and would not speak a kind word to him." 
Genesis37:5 One night Joseph had a dream, and when he shared it with his brothers, they hated him even more!" 
Genesis37:6 “Listen to this dream I had,” he told them." 
Genesis37:7 “There we were, binding sheaves of grain in the field. Suddenly, my sheaf rose up and stood upright. Then your sheaves gathered around mine and bowed down to mine!”" 
Genesis37:8 His brothers asked him, “Oh, so you think you’re going to be our king? Do you actually think you’re destined to rule over us?” So, the dream that he told them about made them hate him even more." 
Genesis37:9 Then another night he had a dream, and he shared it with his brothers, saying, “Listen, I had another dream. This time, the sun and moon and eleven stars were bowing down to me.”" 
Genesis37:10 When his father and brothers heard it, his father scolded him, “What kind of dream is that? Do you really think that I, and your mother, and your brothers are going to come and bow to the ground before you?”" 
Genesis37:11 So his brothers grew more jealous of him, but his father kept pondering Joseph’s dream." 
Genesis37:12 One day, when his brothers had gone to Shechem to care for their father’s flock," 
Genesis37:13 Israel called for Joseph and said to him, “Your brothers are grazing the flocks near Shechem. I want you to go join them.” “ Yes, Father, I’ll go.” Joseph replied." 
Genesis37:14 Jacob added, “Go find out how your brothers are doing with the flocks and bring word back to me.” So, his father sent him off from the valley of Hebron. When Joseph arrived at Shechem" 
Genesis37:15 and began to roam the countryside looking for his brothers, a man approached him and asked, “What are you looking for?”" 
Genesis37:16 “I’m looking for my brothers, who are taking care of their flock,” he answered. “Please tell me, do you know where they are?”" 
Genesis37:17 The man replied, “They’ve left here already. I overheard them mention that they were going to Dothan.” So, Joseph took off to catch up with his brothers and found them at Dothan." 
Genesis37:18 As he was still a long distance away, the brothers recognized him by his robe, and by the time he reached them, they had plotted together to kill him." 
Genesis37:19 They said to each other, “Here comes this dream expert." 
Genesis37:20 Let’s kill him and throw his body into one of these dry wells. We can say that a wild animal ate him. Then we’ll see how his dreams turn out!” 
Genesis37:21 When Reuben heard of this, he tried to save Joseph’s life. “Don’t take his life,” he said." 
Genesis37:22 “No bloodshed! Let’s throw him into this pit in the middle of nowhere, but don’t hurt him.” Reuben said these things because he planned to return later to rescue Joseph and take him back to his father." 
Genesis37:23 When Joseph finally caught up with his brothers, they seized him, stripped him of his ornamented robe, his beautiful full-length robe," 
Genesis37:24 and threw him into the dry, empty pit." 
Genesis37:25 Afterward, the brothers sat down to eat their food. When they looked up, they saw a caravan of Ishmaelite merchants coming from Gilead on their way to Egypt. They had many camels loaded with myrrh, spices, and perfumes." 
Genesis37:26 Judah spoke up and said to his brothers, “What will we gain by murdering our brother and covering up his blood?" 
Genesis37:27 I have an idea! Let’s sell Joseph to these Ishmaelites and not lay a hand on him, for he is our brother, our own flesh and blood.” His brothers agreed." 
Genesis37:28 And when the Midianites (also known as Ishmaelites) came by, Joseph’s brothers lifted him out of the pit, and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver, and the merchants took Joseph far away to Egypt." 
Genesis37:29 Later, Reuben went to the pit, and saw that Joseph was gone. He was overcome with grief and tore his clothes." 
Genesis37:30 He went to his brothers and said, “The boy is gone! What am I going to do now?”" 
Genesis37:31 Then they took Joseph’s colorful robe, killed a goat, and dipped the robe in its blood." 
Genesis37:32 They took the blood-stained robe back to their father and said, “We found this. Look it over—doesn’t it belong to your son?”" 
Genesis37:33 Jacob recognized it instantly and cried out, “It’s my son’s robe! Some wild animal must have killed him. My son Joseph has been torn to pieces!”" 
Genesis37:34 Overcome with grief, Jacob tore his clothes, put on sackcloth, and mourned for his son a long time." 
Genesis37:35 All his sons and daughters came and tried to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted. He told them, “No, I will mourn for him the rest of my life, until I join my son in the realm of the dead.” Joseph’s father wept and wept for his son." 
Genesis37:36 Meanwhile, the Midianites took Joseph to Egypt and sold him to Potiphar, one of Pharaoh’s officials, the captain of the guard." 
Genesis38:1 Around that time, Judah left his brothers at Hebron and went to Adullam to stay with a man named Hirah." 
Genesis38:2 There he met and married a Canaanite girl, the daughter of Shua. He slept with her and" 
Genesis38:3 she became pregnant and gave birth to a son, and Judah named him Er." 
Genesis38:4 She conceived again and gave birth to another son and named him Onan. 
Genesis38:5 While they were staying in Chezib, she gave birth to a third son and named him Shelah." 
Genesis38:6 When their sons were grown, Judah arranged for Er, his oldest son, to marry a girl named Tamar." 
Genesis38:7 But Er had become so wicked in the sight of Yahweh that Yahweh ended his life. 
Genesis38:8 Then Judah said to Er’s brother Onan, “Your duty is to join yourself to her. Go perform your duty as a brother-in-law and provide an heir for your brother.”" 
Genesis38:9 Onan, however, did not want to produce a child that would not be his own rightful heir, so whenever he and Tamar had intercourse, he purposely spilled his semen onto the ground to keep her from getting pregnant and having a child that would belong to his dead brother." 
Genesis38:10 But what he did was wicked in Yahweh ’s sight, so he took Onan’s life also." 
Genesis38:11 Then Judah said to his daughter-in-law Tamar, “Live as a widow in your father’s house until my youngest son Shelah grows up.” So Tamar went home to her parents, but Judah worried that Shelah would end up dead like his brothers." 
Genesis38:12 After some time passed, Judah’s wife, the daughter of Shua, died. When his time of mourning was over, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite went to Timnah to enjoy the festivities at the sheep-shearing." 
Genesis38:13 Meanwhile, Tamar had learned that Shelah had grown up, but Judah had still not given him to her to father a child for her deceased husband. So, when Tamar found out her father-in-law was coming to Timnah for the sheep-shearing, she removed her widow’s clothes and covered herself with a veil to disguise herself. And she sat waiting at the crossroads where Judah would have to pass by." 
Genesis38:14  
Genesis38:15 When Judah saw her, she was wearing a veil over her face, so he thought she was a prostitute. He had no clue that she was his own daughter-in-law. So he approached her and said, “Come sleep with me.” “What will you give me if I do?” she answered." 
Genesis38:16  
Genesis38:17 He responded, “I will send you a young goat from the flock.” “What guarantee can you give me that you will really send it?” she asked." 
Genesis38:18 “Well, what pledge do you want?” Judah asked. Tamar answered, “Give me your necklace with your personal signet and the staff you’re holding.” So, he gave them to her, and he went and slept with her. When she got up and went home, she removed her veil and put her widow’s garment back on. Later, she discovered she was pregnant." 
Genesis38:19  
Genesis38:20 Soon afterward, Judah sent the young goat by his friend Hirah the Adullamite to recover his items from the prostitute, but she was nowhere to be found." 
Genesis38:21 So he asked the townspeople, “Where is the temple prostitute that sits by the crossroads?” They answered, “No prostitute has been there.”" 
Genesis38:22 So he returned to Judah and informed him, “I couldn’t find her, and besides that, the townspeople said that no prostitute has been there.”" 
Genesis38:23 Judah replied, “Let her keep my pledge. If we try to go get it now, we’ll become a laughingstock. After all, I did send you with the payment I promised her, and you couldn’t find her.”" 
Genesis38:24 About three months later, Judah was told, “Your daughter-in-law Tamar has been promiscuous, and now she is pregnant!” Indignant, Judah said, “Bring her out, and let her be burned!”" 
Genesis38:25 As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law, “Look, the one who owns these things got me pregnant! See, whose signet and staff are these?”" 
Genesis38:26 Judah recognized them as his and said, “She is more righteous than I, for I never gave my son Shelah to marry her.” And he let her go free and never slept with her again." 
Genesis38:27 When it was time for her to give birth, there were twins in her womb!" 
Genesis38:28 While she was in labor, one hand popped out, so the midwife wrapped a crimson thread around its wrist, saying, “This one came out first.”" 
Genesis38:29 But immediately, he drew his hand back, and out came his brother; and she said, “Look how you have broken out of the womb!” So, he was named Perez, the one who breaks through." 
Genesis38:30 Afterward, his brother came out, the one with the crimson thread on his wrist. That’s why they named him Zerah (“ the crimson one ”)." 
Genesis39:1 After the Ishmaelite traders brought Joseph down to Egypt, he was purchased by an Egyptian officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, whose name was Potiphar." 
Genesis39:2 Yahweh ’s presence was with Joseph and he became successful while living in the house of his Egyptian master. 
Genesis39:3 When his master realized that Yahweh ’s presence was with Joseph and caused everything he did to prosper," 
Genesis39:4 Joseph found favor with Potiphar. He was quickly promoted to become the overseer of Potiphar’s house and was put in charge of all that he had. 
Genesis39:5 From the moment Potiphar appointed Joseph over his household, Yahweh blessed the Egyptian’s affairs for Joseph’s sake. The blessing of Yahweh was upon everything Potiphar owned; his finances increased, his crops flourished, and his flocks and herds multiplied." 
Genesis39:6 So Potiphar placed all that he owned under Joseph’s oversight. And with Joseph in charge, Potiphar had nothing to worry about, except deciding on what to eat! Now Joseph was strikingly handsome, very good-looking, and well-built." 
Genesis39:7 It wasn’t long before his master’s wife noticed Joseph. She demanded: “Come make love to me.” 
Genesis39:8 “Never!” Joseph replied. “Don’t you realize that my master has nothing to worry about with me in charge, for he has put everything he has under my care?" 
Genesis39:9 There is no one greater in his household than me, nor has he kept anything back from me except you, because you’re his wife. Why would I want to do such an immoral thing and sin against God?”" 
Genesis39:10 Yet day after day, she was determined to seduce him. But Joseph continually refused her advances and would not even go near her." 
Genesis39:11 Then one day, when he had to go into the house to do his work and no one else was there," 
Genesis39:12 she grabbed him by his robe and said, “Come on, sleep with me!” But he abruptly ran out of the house, leaving his robe in her hands!" 
Genesis39:13 Realizing he had fled, and she was holding his robe in her hands," 
Genesis39:14 she called for her household servants and said to them, “See! My husband brings this Hebrew foreigner here to make fools of us! He barged into my house and tried to have sex with me, and I screamed;" 
Genesis39:15 and when he heard me scream for help, he ran out of the house and left his robe!”" 
Genesis39:16 She kept the robe beside her until his master came home 
Genesis39:17 and she told him the same story: “This Hebrew foreigner you brought among us barged into the house and tried to violate me. 
Genesis39:18 As soon as I screamed out for help, he ran outside and left his robe here beside me.”" 
Genesis39:19 When his master heard his wife’s account about how his servant had treated her, he became furious." 
Genesis39:20 So Joseph’s master took him and threw him into prison, the place where the king’s prisoners are confined, and he was left there." 
Genesis39:21 But Yahweh was with Joseph and demonstrated to him his faithful love by giving him great favor in the sight of the warden. 
Genesis39:22 The warden put all the prisoners under Joseph’s care; he was placed in charge of all the prisoners and everything in the prison. 
Genesis39:23 The warden had no worries about the prison with Joseph in charge, because Yahweh ’s presence was with Joseph and caused everything Joseph did to prosper." 
Genesis40:1 Some time later, both Pharaoh’s chief steward and chief baker deeply offended their master, the king of Egypt." 
Genesis40:2 Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief steward and the chief baker," 
Genesis40:3 so he incarcerated them in the palace of Potiphar, the captain of the guard, in the same prison where Joseph was bound." 
Genesis40:4 The captain of the guard placed them under Joseph’s charge, and they remained in custody for some time." 
Genesis40:5 Then one night, they both dreamed—the steward and the baker, officials of the king of Egypt. They each had a prophetic dream with different interpretations." 
Genesis40:6 When Joseph came to them in the morning, he saw they looked miserable," 
Genesis40:7 so he asked Pharaoh’s two officials who were under his custody, “ What’s wrong? Why the sad faces?”" 
Genesis40:8 “We had dreams last night,” they answered, “and we have no one to interpret them.” And Joseph said to them, “God can interpret your dreams! Please, tell them to me.”" 
Genesis40:9 So the chief steward shared his dream with Joseph first. He said, “In my dream, I saw a vine with three branches in front of me. I watched as it budded, then immediately it blossomed, and its clusters ripened into grapes." 
Genesis40:10  
Genesis40:11 I was holding Pharaoh’s cup, so I took the grapes, squeezed them into his cup, and handed the cup to the king.”" 
Genesis40:12 Joseph said to him, “ God has given me the interpretation of your dream: The three branches are three days." 
Genesis40:13 In three days, Pharaoh will pardon you and restore you to your post. You will once again hand Pharaoh’s cup to him as you used to do as his steward." 
Genesis40:14 When things start to go well for you, remember me, and please be kind and mention me to Pharaoh so that he might release me from here." 
Genesis40:15 For I was kidnapped from the land of the Hebrews, and I have done nothing here to deserve being thrown into this dungeon.”" 
Genesis40:16 When the chief baker saw how favorably Joseph interpreted the dream, he said to him, “ Let me tell you my dream. I saw three wicker breadbaskets stacked on my head one above the other." 
Genesis40:17 In the top basket, I saw all kinds of bread and pastries for Pharaoh to enjoy, but the birds came and ate out of the basket above my head.”" 
Genesis40:18 Joseph said, “ God has given me the interpretation of your dream: The three baskets are three days." 
Genesis40:19 In three days, Pharaoh will behead you and impale you on a pole, and birds will eat the flesh off your corpse.”" 
Genesis40:20 Three days later, it was Pharaoh’s birthday, and he threw a huge feast for all his household. He singled out among his servants the chief steward and the chief baker." 
Genesis40:21 He pardoned the chief steward and restored him to his post, and the steward handed Pharaoh his drink." 
Genesis40:22 But he had the chief baker beheaded and impaled on a pole. So, Joseph had accurately interpreted both their dreams," 
Genesis40:23 but the chief steward completely forgot about Joseph and never remembered him. 
Genesis41:1 After two full years, Pharaoh dreamed that he was standing by the Nile," 
Genesis41:2 and up from the river emerged seven healthy, fat cows, and they began grazing in the marshland." 
Genesis41:3 Then he saw seven other cows come up out of the Nile right behind them. They were ugly and thin, and they stood beside the fat cows on the riverbank." 
Genesis41:4 The seven ugly, thin cows ate up the seven healthy, fat cows. After Pharaoh’s dream he awoke" 
Genesis41:5 and fell back to sleep. He dreamed a second time. In his dream, he saw seven ears of grain, plump, ripe, and growing on a single stalk." 
Genesis41:6 Close behind them sprouted seven ears of grain, thin and shriveled by the east wind." 
Genesis41:7 And the seven thin ears swallowed up the seven plump and full ears. Then Pharaoh awoke from his vivid and disturbing dream! 
Genesis41:8 The next morning, his spirit was agitated, so he called for all the magicians and wise men in Egypt. Pharaoh recounted his dreams to them, but no one could give him the interpretation." 
Genesis41:9 When the chief steward heard about the dreams he remembered Joseph and said to Pharaoh, “ Please, your dream reminds me today of my failures." 
Genesis41:10 Once, when Pharaoh was angry with his servants, he incarcerated me and the chief baker in the prison of Potiphar, the captain of the guard." 
Genesis41:11 We both had dreams on the same night but with different meanings. 
Genesis41:12 There was a young Hebrew man imprisoned with us who had been the personal servant to the captain of the guard. And when we told him our dreams, he interpreted them and told each of us their meaning." 
Genesis41:13 And it happened just as he said. Pharaoh restored me to my post, but he had the baker impaled.”" 
Genesis41:14 After hearing this, Pharaoh immediately sent for Joseph. They rushed him out of the dungeon to prepare him to meet with the king. When he had shaved and changed his clothes, he came and stood before Pharaoh." 
Genesis41:15 Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I have had two dreams that no one can explain. I have heard that you are able to interpret a dream the moment you hear it.”" 
Genesis41:16 “I cannot do it alone,” Joseph replied, “but God will help me to give Pharaoh the proper interpretation for Pharaoh’s welfare.”" 
Genesis41:17 Then Pharaoh told Joseph, “In my dream I was standing on the bank of the Nile," 
Genesis41:18 and up from the river emerged seven healthy, fat cows, and they began to graze in the marshland." 
Genesis41:19 Right behind them followed seven other scrawny and emaciated cows. Never have I seen such ugly cows in all the land of Egypt! 
Genesis41:20 The seven ugly, scrawny cows ate up the healthy, fat cows," 
Genesis41:21 but after consuming them, no one could tell that they had eaten them, for they looked just as bad as before. I awoke with a start," 
Genesis41:22 but immediately went back to sleep and had another dream. I saw seven ears of grain, full and ripe, growing on a single stalk." 
Genesis41:23 Right behind them sprouted seven thin, shriveled ears, scorched by the east wind." 
Genesis41:24 The seven shriveled ears swallowed up the seven healthy ears. I have shared my dreams with my magicians, but no one can give me an interpretation.”" 
Genesis41:25 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, “Both your dreams tell the same story, for God has prophetically told Pharaoh what he is about to do." 
Genesis41:26 Both the seven healthy cows and the seven healthy ears represent seven good years; it’s the same dream. 
Genesis41:27 The seven ugly and scrawny cows that followed and the seven shriveled ears scorched by the east wind are seven years also. They represent seven years of famine. 
Genesis41:28 It is just as I have told Pharaoh; God has divinely revealed what he is about to do. 
Genesis41:29 There will come seven years of great abundance throughout all the land of Egypt," 
Genesis41:30 followed by seven years of intense famine. All of Egypt will forget the former abundance, for all the land will be ravaged by a famine, a very severe famine. They will not even remember their former abundance." 
Genesis41:31  
Genesis41:32 The reason that Pharaoh’s dream was repeated is that God has determined that it will surely happen, and that he will soon carry it out.”" 
Genesis41:33 Joseph continued, “Let Pharaoh select a very wise and discerning man and set him over the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:34 Let Pharaoh appoint other officials throughout the land to collect one-fifth of all the crops each year during the seven plentiful years. 
Genesis41:35 Have them gather all the food of these abundant years that are coming, and under Pharaoh’s authority, have the grain stored in the cities for food." 
Genesis41:36 Store it all as food reserve for the people during the seven years of famine coming upon Egypt, so that the land will survive the famine.”" 
Genesis41:37 Joseph’s proposal pleased Pharaoh and all his advisers. 
Genesis41:38 He said to them, “Where can we find anyone else like this one, for he has the Spirit of God in him!”" 
Genesis41:39 So Pharaoh turned to Joseph and said, “Since God has divinely revealed this to you, there is no one as wise and full of insight as you." 
Genesis41:40 I hereby place you in charge of all my affairs, and all my people will obey your commands. Only I, the king, will be greater than you!" 
Genesis41:41 “Listen to me, Joseph,” Pharaoh continued. “I am placing you in charge of all of Egypt.”" 
Genesis41:42 Then he removed his signet ring, placed it on Joseph’s finger, and had him clothed with fine linen robes! He adorned him with a golden collar around his neck." 
Genesis41:43 Pharaoh had him ride in the chariot reserved for the second-in-command and sent runners going before him, crying out, “Kneel!” In this way, Pharaoh placed Joseph over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:44 Pharaoh also said to Joseph, “I am Pharaoh. No one in all of Egypt will lift a finger without your permission!”" 
Genesis41:45 Pharaoh gave Joseph a new name: Revealer of Secrets. He also arranged for him to marry the daughter of Potiphera, the priest of Heliopolis. Her name was Asenath. And Joseph took charge over all the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:46 Joseph was thirty years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Leaving Pharaoh’s presence, Joseph traveled throughout the entire land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:47 During the seven years of abundance, the land produced bumper crops." 
Genesis41:48 Joseph supervised the gathering up of all the great stores of food of the seven years of abundance and strategically placed them in various walled cities near where the harvest was gathered. 
Genesis41:49 He gathered such massive quantities of produce that he gave up trying to measure it all, for it was like counting the sand on the seashore." 
Genesis41:50 Prior to the famine, Joseph and Asenath, daughter of Potiphera, priest of Heliopolis, had two sons." 
Genesis41:51 Joseph named the firstborn Manasseh, saying, “God has made me forget all my troubles and my parental home.”" 
Genesis41:52 The second he named Ephraim, saying, “God has made me fruitful in the land of my suffering.”" 
Genesis41:53 Eventually, Egypt’s seven years of abundance came to an end." 
Genesis41:54 Then began the seven years of famine, just as Joseph prophesied. Although there was a severe famine everywhere else, food was available throughout the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:55 When the Egyptians grew hungry, the people cried out to Pharaoh for food. Then Pharaoh said to all his people, “Go to Joseph and do whatever he tells you.”" 
Genesis41:56 As the famine worsened over all the land, Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold grain to the Egyptians, for the famine was severe everywhere." 
Genesis41:57 So because of the severity of the worldwide famine, people from all over the world had to come and buy grain from Joseph." 
Genesis42:1 When Jacob learned there was food in Egypt, he said to his sons, “Why are you standing around here staring at each other?" 
Genesis42:2 I hear there is grain in Egypt; go there and buy some for us so we don’t all starve to death.” 
Genesis42:3 So Joseph’s ten half brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt," 
Genesis42:4 but Jacob did not send Joseph’s full brother Benjamin with them, because he feared something might happen to him." 
Genesis42:5 So Israel’s sons were among those who went to Egypt to buy grain, for the famine in the land of Canaan was severe." 
Genesis42:6 Now Joseph was the governor of the land of Egypt, which meant he supervised the sale of grain to all the people. One day, Joseph’s ten brothers came and bowed down before him with their faces on the ground." 
Genesis42:7 As soon as Joseph saw them, he realized that they were his brothers! But he pretended he didn’t know them and spoke to them harshly: “Where do you come from?” “From the land of Canaan,” they answered, “and we’re here to buy food.”" 
Genesis42:8 Although Joseph recognized his brothers, they had no clue that it was Joseph speaking to them." 
Genesis42:9 Then at once, Joseph remembered the dreams he had about them bowing down before him! Pausing, he said to them, “You are spies! You’ve come to see where our land is weak!”" 
Genesis42:10 His brothers replied, “No, master; we’ve come to buy food." 
Genesis42:11 We, your servants, are honest men; we’d never think of spying! We’re blood brothers, sons of one father.”" 
Genesis42:12 Joseph interrupted, “No! You are spies who have come here to find our weakness!”" 
Genesis42:13 “We are your servants,” they insisted. “We were twelve brothers, our youngest brother remained behind with our father, and one brother—well, he is no more.”" 
Genesis42:14 Joseph said to them, “It’s just as I said; you are spies!" 
Genesis42:15 And here is how I’ll test you: unless your younger brother comes and presents himself here before me, then as surely as Pharaoh lives, you shall not depart from here!" 
Genesis42:16 One of you must go and bring me your brother, while the rest of you will remain here in confinement. This way I will test your words to see if the story you have told me is true. If not, as surely as Pharaoh lives, you are spies!”" 
Genesis42:17 He placed them all in prison together for three days. 
Genesis42:18 On the third day, Joseph said to them, “Do as I say and you will live. I am a man who respects God." 
Genesis42:19 If you are as honest as you say you are, then I will keep just one of your brothers here in confinement while the rest of you carry grain home for your starving families." 
Genesis42:20 You must return with your youngest brother so that I may verify your story, and that you may not die.” So they agreed to do so." 
Genesis42:21 With Joseph standing there, they began to speak among themselves, saying, “ Look what’s happened to us! We’re being punished for what we did to Joseph long ago. We heard his cries of anguish and saw the agony of his soul when he begged us for mercy, but we turned a deaf ear. That’s why all this trouble has come upon us!”" 
Genesis42:22 Then Reuben spoke up, “Didn’t I tell you not to sin against the boy? But you wouldn’t listen! So now we’re paying the price for his murder!”" 
Genesis42:23 They had no clue that Joseph understood every word, for he had been speaking to them through an interpreter." 
Genesis42:24 Deeply affected by what he heard, Joseph began to weep and hurriedly left their presence. After he had composed himself, he returned to them, and pointing to Simeon, said, “This one will remain here.” Then he had him tied and bound while they all watched." 
Genesis42:25 Joseph then gave orders to have their bags filled with grain, to hide each man’s money back inside his sack, and to give them provisions for their journey home. After this was done for them," 
Genesis42:26 they loaded their donkeys with the bags of grain and departed. 
Genesis42:27 Later, they camped for the night, and as one of them opened his sack of grain to feed his donkey, he discovered that his money was there right on top of the grain!" 
Genesis42:28 He shouted to his brothers, “My money! Look, someone put my money back in my sack!” Troubled and trembling, they said to each other, “What in the world has God done to us?”" 
Genesis42:29 When they came to their father Jacob in Canaan, they told him the story of all that happened to them, saying," 
Genesis42:30 “The governor of Egypt spoke harshly to us and accused us of being spies. 
Genesis42:31 We told him, ‘We are not spies but honest men." 
Genesis42:32 We’re twelve brothers, sons of our father. Our youngest remained with our father in the land of Canaan, and one is no more.’" 
Genesis42:33 Then the man, the governor of Egypt, demanded, ‘By this test, I will discern if you are honest men: Leave one of your brothers with me, take the grain you need for your families, and be on your way." 
Genesis42:34 Return to me with your youngest brother, then I’ll know you are not spies, but men of integrity. Then I’ll release your brother back to you, and you’ll be free to trade in the land.’ ”" 
Genesis42:35 As they each emptied their sacks of grain, each man found his money inside his sack! When they and their father saw their money returned to them, they were frightened." 
Genesis42:36 Their father Jacob said to his sons, “You have taken away my children! First, Joseph is gone, and now, Simeon! And now, you want to take Benjamin from me! Everything is against me!”" 
Genesis42:37 Then Reuben said, “ Father, you may put my two sons to death if I fail to bring Benjamin back to you! Trust me—I will bring him back!”" 
Genesis42:38 But Jacob replied, “I can’t let my son Benjamin go with you. For his brother is dead, and of Rachel’s sons, he alone is left. If he were to meet with disaster on your journey, I would die of grief! You will send my white hair and broken heart sorrowing down to the grave!”" 
Genesis43:1 Now the famine in the land continued to grow more severe. 
Genesis43:2 When all the grain they had brought from Egypt was almost gone, their father said to them, “Go back and buy us more food.”" 
Genesis43:3 But Judah objected, “The Egyptian warned us repeatedly, ‘You will not see my face again, unless Benjamin is with you!’" 
Genesis43:4 We’ll only go if you’ll let our brother come with us. 
Genesis43:5 If you insist he remains here, we won’t go, for the man solemnly told us, ‘You will not see my face again, unless your brother is with you!’ ”" 
Genesis43:6 Israel demanded, “Why did you make it so hard for me by telling the man you had another brother?”" 
Genesis43:7 They answered him, “The man interrogated us about ourselves and our family, saying, ‘Is your father still living? Do you have another brother?’ We had to answer his questions! We had no idea he would say, ‘You must bring your brother here to me.’ ”" 
Genesis43:8 Then Judah spoke up and said to Israel, “Father, I promise to guarantee his safety with my life. You can hold me personally responsible if I don’t return with him. I’ll bear the blame before you for the rest of my life if I fail to bring him safely back to you! You have my promise. Entrust him to my care, and let us be on our way, so that we all don’t die of starvation—we and you and all our children—we will live and not die!" 
Genesis43:9  
Genesis43:10 And besides, if we hadn’t delayed so long, we could have gone and returned twice by now!”" 
Genesis43:11 After considering their words, their father Israel said to them, “If that’s the way it has to be, then do this: Load your donkeys with the very best gifts you can find, choice products of the land, and offer them to the man. Take some balm and some honey, spices, and myrrh, pistachio nuts and almonds." 
Genesis43:12 Take double the money with you. Give him back the money that was returned in the top of your sacks, for it may have been a mistake." 
Genesis43:13 Take your brother, too, and be off! Go back to the man at once." 
Genesis43:14 May the God who is more than enough grant you mercy and favor before the man, so that he may send back both Simeon and Benjamin. As for me, if I suffer loss, then let it be so.”" 
Genesis43:15 So the brothers set off for Egypt and took double the money, the many gifts, and Benjamin. Once they arrived, they presented themselves before Joseph." 
Genesis43:16 When Joseph saw his brother Benjamin with them, he said to his chief servant, “Bring the men to my house and make them feel at home. Butcher an animal and prepare a meal, for these men are to dine with me at noon.”" 
Genesis43:17 Joseph’s chief servant did as he was told and brought the men to Joseph’s house. 
Genesis43:18 Now the brothers were very apprehensive as they were being led inside, and said to each other, “He brought us here because of the money that was put back in our sacks the first time we came to Egypt! He’s looking for an opportunity to arrest us, turn us into his slaves, and take away our donkeys!”" 
Genesis43:19 So they approached the chief servant and spoke to him at the entrance of the house. 
Genesis43:20 “If you please, my lord,” they said, “we came here once before to buy food," 
Genesis43:21 but on our way home, when we camped for the night and opened our sacks, we found each one’s money in the top of his bag. All our money was there in our bags! We know it must have been an oversight of some kind, and we have no clue who put it there, so we have brought it all back with us. Plus, we have additional money to buy more food.”" 
Genesis43:22  
Genesis43:23 “Relax,” he replied, “don’t be afraid. Your God, the God of your father, must have been the one who put treasure in your bags. I have received your money; it’s all accounted for.” Then the chief servant brought Simeon out to them." 
Genesis43:24 Then he gave feed to their donkeys and brought the brothers into the house. He gave them water to drink and washed their feet. 
Genesis43:25 The men laid out their gifts to present to Joseph, for they were told he would appear before them at noon and would dine with them." 
Genesis43:26 When Joseph came home, they presented to him the gifts they had brought with them into the house. They each bowed low before him with their faces to the ground." 
Genesis43:27 He asked them how the family was doing, saying, “You mentioned your aging father; is he still alive? Is he doing well?”" 
Genesis43:28 “Yes,” they replied, “our father, your servant, is still alive and doing well.” And they bowed low before Joseph in respect." 
Genesis43:29 Looking them over, he saw his brother Benjamin, his mother’s son, and said to them, “So, I see you have returned with your youngest brother, of whom you spoke. God be gracious to you, my son.”" 
Genesis43:30 Joseph hastily left the room, for he was overwhelmed with feelings of love for his brother and on the verge of tears. He went into a private room and sobbed, as tears ran down his cheeks." 
Genesis43:31 When he finally composed himself, he washed his face, reappeared, and ordered: “Serve the meal.”" 
Genesis43:32 First, they served Joseph who was seated apart from his brothers, then the brothers by themselves, and the Egyptians by themselves. (It would have been utterly offensive for the Egyptians to eat at the same table with the Hebrews.)" 
Genesis43:33 Now, the brothers had been seated before Joseph in their birth order, from the firstborn at one end of the table to the youngest at the other end. They were all stunned when they realized the seating arrangement and looked at each other in astonishment." 
Genesis43:34 Eleven plates of food were taken from Joseph’s table and set in front of each of them, but Benjamin’s portion was five times more than any of theirs! They feasted and drank their fill with Joseph until they all became drunk." 
Genesis44:1 Joseph ordered his chief servant, “Fill the men’s sacks with grain, with as much as they can hold, and put each one’s money back in the mouth of his bag." 
Genesis44:2 As for the youngest one, place my silver goblet in the mouth of his sack, along with the money he paid for his grain.” And he did as Joseph said." 
Genesis44:3 At dawn, the men loaded their donkeys and set off for home." 
Genesis44:4 They hadn’t gone far outside of the city when Joseph said to his chief servant, “Now, go at once and pursue the men! And when you catch up to them, say to them, ‘Why did you repay good with evil?" 
Genesis44:5 Why have you stolen the silver goblet from which my master drinks, and the one he uses to discover secrets hidden from men? You have done an evil thing!’ ”" 
Genesis44:6 When the chief servant caught up with them, he repeated his master’s words to them." 
Genesis44:7 They answered him, “Why does my lord accuse us of such things? Far be it from your servants to do anything of the kind!" 
Genesis44:8 Didn’t we return from Canaan with the money we found in our grain sacks? Why then would we steal silver or gold from the house of your lord? 
Genesis44:9 Look for yourself. If any of your servants is found to have it, then he will die, and the rest of us will become your master’s slaves!”" 
Genesis44:10 “Very well then,” Joseph’s servant replied, “as you have said. But I will show you leniency. The one who has it will be my slave, but the rest of you will go free.”" 
Genesis44:11 Each one quickly lowered his bag to the ground and opened it. 
Genesis44:12 Then the chief servant searched each bag, beginning with oldest and ending with the youngest—and he found the silver goblet in Benjamin’s bag!" 
Genesis44:13 Aghast, the brothers ripped their clothes in despair. They all loaded their donkeys again and returned to the city." 
Genesis44:14 Joseph was waiting in his house when Judah and his brothers arrived. When they saw Joseph, they all fell to the ground before him." 
Genesis44:15 Joseph said to them, “What have you done? Don’t you know that divination would have given insight to a man like me?”" 
Genesis44:16 Judah replied, “What can we say, my lord? How can we plead our case? How can we prove our innocence? God has revealed the guilt of your servants, and here we are—our lord’s slaves, both we and the one in whose sack the silver goblet was found.”" 
Genesis44:17 “No,” Joseph commanded. “Only the one who stole my silver goblet will be my slave; the rest of you will go on home in peace to your father.”" 
Genesis44:18 Then Judah stepped forward and offered, “My lord, please, may I have a word with you? You are the equal of Pharaoh. Please don’t be angry with me, your servant." 
Genesis44:19 My lord asked his servants, ‘Do you have a father or another brother?’" 
Genesis44:20 We answered my lord, ‘We have an aged father and our youngest brother, who is a child of his old age. The child’s full brother is dead, so now he is the only child left of his mother, and his father loves him very much.’" 
Genesis44:21 Then you said to your servants, ‘Bring him here to me so that I might see him myself.’" 
Genesis44:22 We said to my lord, ‘But he cannot leave his father; if he were to leave him, his father would die.’" 
Genesis44:23 Then you said to your servants, ‘You will not see my face again if I do not see your youngest brother.’" 
Genesis44:24 When we arrived home to your servant, my father, we told him every word you had spoken to us." 
Genesis44:25 “Sometime later, our father said to us, ‘Go back and buy some more food for us.’" 
Genesis44:26 We answered, ‘We can only return to Egypt if we take our youngest brother with us. We won’t see the man’s face again, if he doesn’t see our youngest brother.’" 
Genesis44:27 Then, your servant, my father, said to us, ‘You know that my wife Rachel only gave me two sons." 
Genesis44:28 One is gone from me—torn by a beast! I haven’t seen him since. 
Genesis44:29 If you take this one also from me, and something happens to him, you will send my gray hairs in grief down to the grave.’ ”" 
Genesis44:30 Judah continued, “ My lord, if I went to your servant, my father, without the boy, and he saw that the boy was not with us, he would die! His very life is wrapped up with the life of the boy. Now he is so old that the grief of his loss would kill him." 
Genesis44:31  
Genesis44:32 Furthermore, I, your servant, have guaranteed the boy’s safety to my father. I told him, ‘If I don’t return the boy back to you, I will bear the blame before you, my father, for the rest of my life!’" 
Genesis44:33 “So, please let me take the place of the boy, and I will remain here as a slave to you, my lord. Please let the boy go back with his brothers. How could I return to my father without the boy? I don’t want to witness the woe and grief that would overtake my father.”" 
Genesis44:34  
Genesis45:1 Joseph could no longer contain his pent-up feelings, so he cried out to his attendants, “Leave the room!” So no one was there when Joseph revealed his identity to his brothers." 
Genesis45:2 He began to weep so loudly that the Egyptians heard it—even as far away as Pharaoh’s house! 
Genesis45:3 Joseph, through his tears, said to his brothers in Hebrew: “I am Joseph! Is father still alive?” His brothers stood there stunned, scared, and speechless." 
Genesis45:4 Joseph said to his brothers, “Please, come close to me.” Inching forward, they came close to him. Then Joseph said, “It’s me—your brother—whom you sold into slavery in Egypt. I am Joseph!" 
Genesis45:5 Now don’t be grieved. Don’t blame yourselves because you sold me here. It was God who sent me ahead of you in order to save lives. 
Genesis45:6 The famine has now endured for two years, and the land will not bear fruit for five more years." 
Genesis45:7 God sent me ahead of you to ensure that you would live and have descendants. He has saved your lives through this marvelous act of deliverance. 
Genesis45:8 So it was God, not you, who sent me here. God has made me a father to Pharaoh, the master of his entire household, and the ruler over all of Egypt." 
Genesis45:9 “Hurry back to my father and tell him that you have found me alive. Tell him, ‘This is what your son Joseph says, “God has made me ruler of all Egypt. Come to me without delay." 
Genesis45:10 You will settle in the land of Goshen, where you will be near me—you and all your children and your grandchildren, your flocks and herds and all that you possess." 
Genesis45:11 For there will be five more years of famine, but I will provide all that you need to live in Goshen. You, your household, and all that you have will not live in poverty.” ’" 
Genesis45:12 “My brothers, you each can see for yourselves, and Benjamin can too, that I really am Joseph, for I’m speaking to you face-to-face in our own language." 
Genesis45:13 You must tell father everything you have seen here and how greatly I am honored in Egypt. But hurry and bring my father here to me.” 
Genesis45:14 Then Joseph threw his arms around Benjamin’s neck, sobbing, and Benjamin wept on Joseph’s neck." 
Genesis45:15 With tears streaming down his face, Joseph kissed each brother, one by one. After their tearful, emotional embrace, they took time to speak brother-to-brother." 
Genesis45:16 The news reached Pharaoh’s house: “Joseph’s brothers have come.” Pharaoh and his officials were greatly pleased when they heard it. 
Genesis45:17 Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Tell your brothers: ‘Load your donkeys and return to Canaan." 
Genesis45:18 Get your father and your families and come back to me. I will give you the best of the land in Egypt, and you will enjoy the fat of the land.’" 
Genesis45:19 Tell them also: ‘Take Egyptian wagons with you for your wives and little ones and bring their father with them. 
Genesis45:20 Give no thought to leaving your possessions behind; the best of all the land of Egypt will be yours.’ ” 
Genesis45:21 Israel’s sons did as they were instructed. Joseph gave them wagons, as the king had ordered, and provided food for their journey." 
Genesis45:22 He gave each of them a set of garments, and to Benjamin he also gave three hundred pieces of silver and five sets of garments." 
Genesis45:23 He sent his father ten donkeys loaded with the best Egyptian goods and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and other provisions for the journey." 
Genesis45:24 Then he sent his brothers off, admonishing them, “Don’t quarrel along the way.” And they departed." 
Genesis45:25 They left Egypt and went back home to their father Jacob in Canaan. 
Genesis45:26 When they arrived, they ran to their father and announced, “Joseph is still alive! Not only that, he is the ruler of all Egypt!” The news so stunned Jacob that he nearly fainted. He could not believe his ears!" 
Genesis45:27 But when they told him all that Joseph had said to them, and when he saw the wagons Joseph had sent to take him to Egypt, he recovered from the shock." 
Genesis45:28 “My son Joseph is still alive!” Israel said. “Now I’m convinced! I must go to see him before I die.” 
Genesis46:1 Israel packed up all he had and went to Beersheba, where he offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac." 
Genesis46:2 God spoke to him in visions of the night, and called, “Jacob, Jacob!” “Yes, I’m here,” he answered." 
Genesis46:3 “I am God, the God of your father. Do not be afraid to go to Egypt; for I will make your descendants a great nation there." 
Genesis46:4 I will go with you to Egypt, and I will bring your descendants back to this land. And the hand of Joseph will be there to close your eyes when you die.”" 
Genesis46:5 Then Jacob set out from Beersheba. His sons put him, their little ones, and their wives in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent." 
Genesis46:6 They took their livestock and the possessions they had acquired in Canaan and went to Egypt. Jacob took all his descendants with him: his sons, his grandsons, his daughters, his granddaughters." 
Genesis46:7  
Genesis46:8 Now these are the names of Jacob’s descendants, the Israelites who went to Egypt with him: Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn," 
Genesis46:9 and his sons: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi." 
Genesis46:10 Simeon and his sons: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul (the son of a Canaanite woman)." 
Genesis46:11 Levi and his sons: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari." 
Genesis46:12 Judah and his sons: Shelah, Perez, and Zerah. (Judah’s other sons, Er and Onan, had died in Canaan.) Perez’s sons were Hezron and Hamul." 
Genesis46:13 Issachar and his sons: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron." 
Genesis46:14 Zebulun and his sons: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel." 
Genesis46:15 These thirty-three were the sons that Jacob and Leah had while in Paddan-Aram, besides his daughter Dinah." 
Genesis46:16 Gad and his sons: Zephon, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli." 
Genesis46:17 Asher and his sons: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah. Beriah’s sons were Heber and Malchiel." 
Genesis46:18 These sixteen were the descendants of Jacob and Zilpah (the slave woman whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah). 
Genesis46:19 Jacob’s sons with Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis46:20 In Egypt, Joseph had two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, by Asenath (the daughter of Potiphera, a priest of On)." 
Genesis46:21 Benjamin’s sons were Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard." 
Genesis46:22 These fourteen were the descendants of Jacob by Rachel. 
Genesis46:23 Dan and his son: Hushim. 
Genesis46:24 Naphtali and his sons: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem." 
Genesis46:25 These seven are the descendants of Jacob and Bilhah (the slave woman Laban gave to his daughter Rachel). 
Genesis46:26 The total number of the direct descendants of Jacob who went to Egypt was sixty-six, not including his sons’ wives." 
Genesis46:27 Two sons were born to Joseph in Egypt, bringing the total number of Jacob’s family who went there to seventy." 
Genesis46:28 Jacob sent Judah ahead to ask Joseph to lead them in Goshen. When they arrived," 
Genesis46:29 Joseph got in his chariot and rode to Goshen to meet his father, Israel. As soon as Joseph saw his father, he threw his arms around his father’s neck and wept for a long time." 
Genesis46:30 Israel said to Joseph, “I am ready to die, now that I have seen you and know that you are still alive.”" 
Genesis46:31 Then Joseph said to his brothers and all his father’s family, “I must go and tell the king that my brothers and all my father’s family have come to me from Canaan." 
Genesis46:32 I will tell him that you are shepherds and take care of livestock and that you have brought with you your flocks and herds and all you own. 
Genesis46:33 When the king calls for you and asks what your occupation is," 
Genesis46:34 be sure to tell him that you and your fathers before you have herded livestock all your lives. Then he will let you live in the region of Goshen.” Joseph said this because Egyptians despise shepherds. 
Genesis47:1 Joseph took five of his brothers with him to Pharaoh and presented them to the king. Joseph said to Pharaoh, “My father and my brothers have come from Canaan with their flocks, their herds, and all that they own. They have made their camp in the region of Goshen.”" 
Genesis47:2  
Genesis47:3 Pharaoh asked the men, “What is your occupation?” “We, your servants, are shepherds, just as our fathers were,” they answered." 
Genesis47:4 “We have come to stay as temporary residents in this country, because in the land of Canaan, the famine is so severe that there is no pasture for your servants’ flocks. Please give us permission to settle in the land of Goshen.”" 
Genesis47:5 Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Now that your father and your brothers have arrived," 
Genesis47:6 the land of Egypt is theirs. Let them settle in the best part of the land, in the region of Goshen. And if there are any competent men among them, put them in charge of my own livestock.”" 
Genesis47:7 Later, Joseph brought Jacob into the house and presented him before Pharaoh. And Jacob gave Pharaoh a blessing." 
Genesis47:8 Pharaoh asked Jacob, “How old are you?”" 
Genesis47:9 Jacob answered, “My earthly journey has been one hundred and thirty years. My years have been few and hard, but it doesn’t compare to the length of the earthly journeys of my fathers.”" 
Genesis47:10 Then Jacob blessed Pharaoh again and departed. 
Genesis47:11 So Joseph settled his father and brothers in the choicest part of the land of Egypt, in the district of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded." 
Genesis47:12 Joseph also provided his father and brothers and their families, down to their little ones, with all the food they needed." 
Genesis47:13 Now there was no food anywhere, for the famine was very severe. Both the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine." 
Genesis47:14 And the people of Egypt and Canaan spent all their money to buy grain. Joseph gathered all the money from the sale of grain and deposited the wealth into Pharaoh’s treasury. 
Genesis47:15 When the money ran out in Egypt and Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and pleaded with him, “All our money is gone; give us food! Why would you let us die in front of your eyes?”" 
Genesis47:16 Joseph answered, “If your money is gone, then give me your livestock. I will give you food in exchange for your livestock.”" 
Genesis47:17 So in that year, they brought their livestock to Joseph—their horses, sheep, cattle, and donkeys—and he supplied them with food in exchange for their livestock." 
Genesis47:18 The next year, they came to him and said, “Master, it’s no secret to you that we are broke. All our silver and livestock are now yours. We have nothing left but ourselves and our lands." 
Genesis47:19 Why would you let us die in front of your eyes, leaving all our lands uninhabited? Buy us and our lands in exchange for food. We’ll become Pharaoh’s slaves and give up our land. Only give us seed so that we may live and not die and so that the land will not become a desert.”" 
Genesis47:20 So Joseph gained possession of all the farmland in Egypt for Pharaoh. Every Egyptian sold his land in exchange for food, for the famine was that severe. Eventually, the Egyptians had transferred all the land to Pharaoh." 
Genesis47:21 Everyone became a slave to Pharaoh, from one end of Egypt to the other." 
Genesis47:22 However, he did not take over the land of the priests, for they received royal subsidies from Pharaoh. They lived on the food he provided for them, and that is why they did not have to sell their land." 
Genesis47:23 Joseph said to the people, “Today I have acquired for Pharaoh you and all your land. Here is seed for you to sow in the land." 
Genesis47:24 But when harvest comes, you must pay one-fifth to Pharaoh, and you may keep the rest for planting your fields and for food for yourselves and your families to nourish your household and your little ones.”" 
Genesis47:25 “You have saved our lives!” they said. “May we find your favor, our lord, and we will be slaves to Pharaoh.”" 
Genesis47:26 Thus, Joseph established the law of the land in Egypt, which is still in effect, “A fifth will go to Pharaoh.” Only the land of the priests did not become Pharaoh’s." 
Genesis47:27 Israel and his descendants settled in Egypt in the land of Goshen. They had many children and multiplied, and they acquired property." 
Genesis47:28 Jacob lived in Egypt for seventeen years and lived a total of one hundred and forty-seven years. 
Genesis47:29 When the time of Israel’s death was near, he summoned his beloved son Joseph and said to him, “ Son, do me this favor before I die: Place your hand under my thigh as a pledge that you will show me kindness and loyal love. Do not bury me in Egypt," 
Genesis47:30 but when I go to rest with my fathers, I want you to carry me out of Egypt and bury me where they are buried." 
Genesis47:31 Swear that you will do this.” So Joseph took the oath and said, “I will do as you say.” Then Israel worshiped and leaned on the top of his staff." 
Genesis48:1 Not long afterward, Joseph received the news that his father’s health was failing, so he took his two sons Manasseh and Ephraim along with him." 
Genesis48:2 When Jacob heard that they had come to see him, Israel rallied his strength and sat up in bed." 
Genesis48:3 Jacob said to Joseph, “The God who is more than enough appeared to me at Bethel in the land of Canaan where he blessed me!" 
Genesis48:4 He said to me, ‘I will make you fruitful and multiply your descendants until I have made you a company of nations. And I will give this land to your descendants for an everlasting possession.’" 
Genesis48:5 Furthermore, I will adopt as my very own your two sons who were born in the land of Egypt before I came here. Yes, I claim Ephraim and Manasseh as mine, no less than my two oldest, Reuben and Simeon." 
Genesis48:6 As for any children born after them, they will be considered yours. They will receive their portion of the inheritance in the same territory as their brothers." 
Genesis48:7 For when I was returning from Paddan-Aram, my beloved Rachel died, to my sorrow, in the land of Canaan while we were still on our way, not far from Ephrath. So I buried her there beside the road to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).”" 
Genesis48:8 When Israel noticed Joseph’s two sons, he said, “Who are these?”" 
Genesis48:9 “They are the sons that God has graciously given me here,” Joseph said to his father. “Please bring them closer,” he said, “so that I may bless them.”" 
Genesis48:10 Now Israel could barely see, for his eyes were failing because of old age. So, Joseph brought his sons closer to him, and Joseph’s father, their grandfather, hugged and kissed them." 
Genesis48:11 Tearfully, Israel said to Joseph, “I never thought I’d see your face again, and now, God has let me see my grandchildren as well!”" 
Genesis48:12 Joseph then removed them from his father’s knees and bowed low in respect before his father with his face to the ground. 
Genesis48:13 And Joseph took his sons and had them stand facing their grandfather Israel, Ephraim at Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh at Israel’s right hand." 
Genesis48:14 But Israel crossed his arms, and stretched out his right hand on the head of the younger son, Ephraim, and his left hand on the head of the firstborn son, Manasseh." 
Genesis48:15 He spoke this blessing over them: “May the God of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, who lived devoted to him, the God who has been my Shepherd from my birth until this day," 
Genesis48:16 the Angel who has delivered me from all harm, may he bless these boys! May their lives echo my name, and the names of my fathers Abraham and Isaac. May they multiply into teeming multitudes throughout the earth!”" 
Genesis48:17 When Joseph saw his father place his right hand on Ephraim’s head, he was not happy, so he tried to move his father’s hand from Ephraim to Manasseh’s head." 
Genesis48:18 “Not that way,” Joseph said to his father, “Here, father, put your right hand on the firstborn’s head.”" 
Genesis48:19 But his father refused and said, “I know, my son, I know. Manasseh’s descendants will also multiply and become a great people. His younger brother will become even greater than he, and his tribe will one day give rise to many nations.”" 
Genesis48:20 So Jacob blessed them that day, saying, “Israel will use your names when they pronounce blessings! They will say, ‘May God make you like Ephraim and like Manasseh!’ ” So the crossing of his arms during Jacob’s blessing put Ephraim ahead of Manasseh." 
Genesis48:21 Then Israel said to Joseph, “Son, I will die soon, but God’s presence will go with you, and one day, he will take you back to the land of your ancestors." 
Genesis48:22 I give you one mountain slope more than your brothers, the mountain slope of Shechem, the fertile region I took from the Amorites with my own sword and my own bow.”" 
Genesis49:1 Jacob called all his sons together and gathered them around his bedside. He said to them, “Let me prophesy to you about your future destinies:" 
Genesis49:2 “Come together and listen to me, O sons of Jacob, Listen to your father Israel." 
Genesis49:3 “Reuben, my firstborn, you are my strength and the firstfruits of my manhood. You are preeminent in pride and surpassing others in power." 
Genesis49:4 You are unstable—as turbulent as floodwaters; you will no longer excel, for you have slept with my concubine and defiled yourself in your father’s bed!" 
Genesis49:5 “Simeon and Levi, you are two of a kind and brothers in crime, for your swords have committed violent acts." 
Genesis49:6 O my soul, let me not join in their secret plans. O my heart, never let me be counted in their assembly, for they killed men in fits of rage, and for pleasure, they maimed an ox." 
Genesis49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath so relentless. I will divide your descendants throughout Jacob’s territory and scatter them throughout Israel." 
Genesis49:8 “O Judah, your brothers will praise you. You will conquer your foes in battle, And your father’s sons will bow down before you." 
Genesis49:9 Judah, my son, you are like a young lion who has devoured its prey and departed. Like a lion, he crouches and lies down, and like a lioness—who dares to awaken him?" 
Genesis49:10 The scepter of rulership will not be taken from Judah, nor the ruler’s staff from his descendants, until the Shiloh comes and takes what is due him, for the obedience of nations belongs to him." 
Genesis49:11 He will tether his donkey to the vine and his purebred colt to the choicest branch. He will wash his garments in wine and his robe in the blood of grapes. 
Genesis49:12 His eyes are more exhilarating than wine and his teeth whiter than milk. 
Genesis49:13 “Zebulun will settle along the seashore and become a safe harbor for ships, and his borders will extend to Sidon." 
Genesis49:14 “Issachar is a strong donkey lying down between its saddlebags. 
Genesis49:15 When he sees that his resting place is good, and his portion is so pleasant, then he will bend his shoulder to the burden and labor for his master." 
Genesis49:16 “Dan will provide justice for his people as one of the tribes of Israel. 
Genesis49:17 Dan will be a snake waiting by the roadside, like a snake in the grass. He bites the horse’s heels, making its rider fall backward." 
Genesis49:18 “I wait in hope for your salvation, O  Yahweh!" 
Genesis49:19 “Gad will be raided by raiders, but he will raid at their heels and overcome them at last." 
Genesis49:20 “Asher’s food will be rich, and he will provide delicacies fit for a king." 
Genesis49:21 “Naphtali is a doe set free, who bestows beauty on his offspring." 
Genesis49:22 “Joseph is a fruitful vine, a fruitful vine growing by a spring, whose branches run over a wall." 
Genesis49:23 Persecutors fiercely attacked him; they pursued him with their bow and arrows. 
Genesis49:24 But Joseph’s bow remained steady, because the power of the Mighty One of Jacob strengthened him, by the name of the loving Shepherd, the Rock of Israel." 
Genesis49:25 The God of your father will help and protect you; the God who is more than enough will bless you. He will bless you with the blessings of heaven, blessings of the deep that lie beneath, and blessings of the breast and womb." 
Genesis49:26 The blessings of your father will be greater than the blessings of the eternal mountains, surpassing the blessings of my ancestors! May Joseph’s blessings crown his head and rest on the brow of the one set apart, prince among his brothers." 
Genesis49:27 “Benjamin is a ferocious wolf. He devours his prey; in the evening, he divides the spoil.”" 
Genesis49:28 All these men became the twelve tribes of Israel. These were prophetic words their father spoke to them when he blessed them, blessing each son with a parting word appropriate to him." 
Genesis49:29 Afterward, Jacob sat on the side of his bed and instructed his sons with these words: “I am about to join my people in death. Bury me with my ancestors in the cave of the field of Ephron the Hittite—" 
Genesis49:30 the cave in the field of Machpelah, near Mamre, in the land of Canaan. My grandfather Abraham purchased that field as a burial site from Ephron the Hittite." 
Genesis49:31 My grandfather Abraham and my grandmother Sarah are buried there. My father Isaac and my mother Rebekah were buried there also. And it is the place I buried my wife Leah. 
Genesis49:32 So, bury me there, in that cave, in the field that was purchased from the Hittites.”" 
Genesis49:33 When Jacob finished his final words of instruction to his sons, he lifted his feet onto the bed, breathed his last, and was gathered to his people." 
Genesis50:1 Joseph flung himself over Jacob, kissing him and weeping. And his tears fell on his father’s face." 
Genesis50:2 When he was able to compose himself, he ordered the royal physicians to embalm his father. So, they began the required forty-day process. The Egyptians mourned for Israel for seventy days," 
Genesis50:3  
Genesis50:4 and when the weeping period was over, Joseph approached Pharaoh’s officials and said to them, “Please, may I ask a personal favor? Bring my appeal before Pharaoh and tell him:" 
Genesis50:5 ‘My dying father made me promise that I would bury him in the land of Canaan—in a tomb he had hewn with his own hands. Please give me permission to go and bury my father; then I will return.’ ” 
Genesis50:6 Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Go to Canaan, bury your father, and keep your promise to him.”" 
Genesis50:7 So Joseph went to Canaan to bury his father, and all the officials of Pharaoh, the elite members of his court, and all of Egypt’s dignitaries accompanied him." 
Genesis50:8 All of Joseph’s household and all his brothers and their father’s household went, too. Only the children and livestock remained behind in Goshen." 
Genesis50:9 Many chariots and horsemen—a huge entourage—accompanied Joseph to Canaan in a grand procession! 
Genesis50:10 When they arrived at the threshing floor of Atad on the other side of the Jordan, they mourned loudly with bitter sorrow for a long time. And Joseph spent seven days there in ceremonial mourning for his father." 
Genesis50:11 When the people of Canaan saw the depth of mourning at the threshing floor of Atad, they said, “This is a solemn occasion of grief for the Egyptians,” and named the place near the Jordan, The Mourning of the Egyptians." 
Genesis50:12 So Jacob’s sons did as they were instructed 
Genesis50:13 and carried his body to the land of Canaan. They buried him there in the cave in the field of Machpelah near Mamre, where Abraham had purchased a burial place from Ephron the Hittite." 
Genesis50:14 After burying his father, Joseph returned to Egypt with his brothers and all who had gone with him to bury his father." 
Genesis50:15 When the brothers realized they were now without their father, they said, “What if Joseph still bears a grudge against us and decides to pay us back for all the trouble we brought on him?”" 
Genesis50:16 So they sent this message to Joseph: “Before he died, your father left us this instruction:" 
Genesis50:17 ‘Tell Joseph that I beg him to completely forgive the sin of his brothers who treated him so harshly.’ Now, please forgive us, servants of the God of your father, of the horrible wrong we did to you.” Joseph cried and wept as they read this message to him." 
Genesis50:18 Then his brothers came and threw themselves down before Joseph’s feet, saying, “We are here as your slaves!”" 
Genesis50:19 But Joseph dried his tears and said, “Don’t be afraid. How could I ever take the place of God?" 
Genesis50:20 Even though you intended to hurt me, God intended it for good. It was his plan all along, to ensure the survival of many people. So, don’t worry. I myself will provide for you all that you need, both for you and your little ones.”" 
Genesis50:21 Then with more kind, reassuring words, Joseph comforted his brothers." 
Genesis50:22 Joseph lived in Egypt along with his father’s family and lived to be one hundred and ten years old. 
Genesis50:23 He lived to see the third generation of Ephraim’s children. Joseph also lived to see the children of Makir, son of Manasseh; and Joseph gave Makir’s children inheritance rights." 
Genesis50:24 Then Joseph declared to his brothers, “I will die one day, but God will certainly come to you and fulfill his promises to bring you and your descendants from this land and lead you to the land he promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.”" 
Genesis50:25 So Joseph had his brothers, the sons of Israel, make a solemn oath, saying, “When God comes to you, you will carry my bones up from Egypt.”" 
Genesis50:26 Joseph died at the age of one hundred and ten. He was embalmed and placed in a coffin in Egypt. 
Joshua1:1 And after Moses, Yahweh ’s servant, died, Yahweh spoke to Joshua son of Nun, Moses’ faithful assistant, and said," 
Joshua1:2 “My servant Moses is dead. Now get up! Prepare to cross the Jordan River, you and all the people. Lead them into the land that I am giving to the Israelites." 
Joshua1:3 Every part of the land where you march I will give you, as I promised Moses." 
Joshua1:4 Your borders will extend from the southern desert to the northern mountains of Lebanon, and from the great river Euphrates in the east, to the Mediterranean in the west—including all the land of the Hittites." 
Joshua1:5 Joshua, no one will be able to defeat you for the rest of your life! I will be with you as I was with Moses, and I will never fail nor abandon you." 
Joshua1:6 You must be strong and brave. You will lead the people to acquire and apportion the land that I promised their ancestors I would give them. 
Joshua1:7 You must remain very strong and courageous! Be faithful to obey all the teaching that my servant Moses commanded you to follow. Do not deviate from him to the right or to the left, so that you will have overwhelming success in everything you undertake." 
Joshua1:8 Recite this scroll of the law constantly. Contemplate it day and night and be careful to follow every word it contains; then you will enjoy incredible prosperity and success. 
Joshua1:9 I repeat, be strong and brave! Do not yield to fear nor be discouraged, for I am Yahweh your God, and I will be with you wherever you go!”" 
Joshua1:10 Joshua ordered the leaders of the people: 
Joshua1:11 “Go through the camp and instruct the people, ‘Pack your bags; for within three days you will cross the Jordan to conquer and occupy the land that Yahweh your God is giving you to possess.’ ”" 
Joshua1:12 Then Joshua addressed the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh:" 
Joshua1:13 “Remember the words that Yahweh ’s servant Moses commanded you: ‘ Yahweh your God is giving you this land on the east side of the Jordan as your homeland.’ Therefore, your wives, your little ones, and your livestock may remain here, but all your valiant warriors must cross over with us armed. They will take the lead and help their brothers" 
Joshua1:14  
Joshua1:15 until they take possession of the land that Yahweh your God is giving them as their homeland. Afterward, you will be free to return to your own land and possess the land that Moses, Yahweh ’s servant, gave you here on the east side of the Jordan.”" 
Joshua1:16 They answered Joshua: “We will do everything you have told us and will go wherever you send us. 
Joshua1:17 We always obeyed Moses, and we will always obey you. May Yahweh your God stand beside you as he stood with Moses." 
Joshua1:18 And anyone who questions your authority or disobeys whatever you command shall be put to death. So, Joshua, be strong and brave!”" 
Joshua2:1 Then Joshua son of Nun secretly sent out two spies from their camp at Acacia. He told them, “Go and explore the land of Canaan, especially Jericho.” They went and arrived at Jericho and entered the house of Rahab the prostitute and lodged there." 
Joshua2:2 The king of Jericho was told: “Some Israelites have come into the city tonight to spy out the entire land. They’re in Rahab’s house.” 
Joshua2:3 So the king sent messengers to Rahab, who said to her: “Turn over the men who entered your house. They’re here to spy out our land.”" 
Joshua2:4 But Rahab had already hidden the two men. “Yes,” she said. “The men came to me, but I had no idea where they were from." 
Joshua2:5 They left at sundown, just before the city gates were closed at night. Who knows where they went. Quick! Go after them, and maybe you can catch them!”" 
Joshua2:6 (Rahab had hidden the men on her rooftop under stalks of flax she had spread out to dry on the roof.) 
Joshua2:7 So the men of Jericho went out to search for the spies, and the city gates were shut behind them. They searched for them as far as where the path crosses the Jordan." 
Joshua2:8 Before the spies had gone to sleep, Rahab went up to the rooftop" 
Joshua2:9 and said to them, “I know that Yahweh has given you this land. Everyone is absolutely terrified, and we are all paralyzed with fear because of you." 
Joshua2:10 We’ve heard of the miracles that accompany you and how Yahweh dried up the waters of the Red Sea for you when you left Egypt. We’ve heard how you utterly annihilated the two Amorite kings, Sihon and Og, and their kingdoms who were on the other side of the Jordan." 
Joshua2:11 As soon as we heard it, our hearts melted with fear, and we were left with no courage among us because of you. Yahweh, your God, is the true God who rules in heaven above and on earth below." 
Joshua2:12 Please, solemnly swear to me by the name of Yahweh that you will show kindness to my family because I have shown kindness to you. Give me a sure sign" 
Joshua2:13 that you will spare the lives of my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all their families. Don’t let us be killed!”" 
Joshua2:14 The men answered, “If you don’t disclose our mission to anyone, we’ll pledge our lives for yours. Then, when Yahweh gives us this land, we’ll honor our promise and treat you kindly.”" 
Joshua2:15 Rahab’s house was built into the city wall, so she let them down from the window by a rope." 
Joshua2:16 She told them, “Head for the hill country and hide. The men chasing you won’t find you there. Hide for three days until they have returned, then you’ll be safe to go your way.”" 
Joshua2:17 But the men warned her, “ You must do what we say, or we will not be bound to the oath you made us swear." 
Joshua2:18 When our invasion begins, bring all your family together in your house—your father and mother, your brothers and sisters, and all their families. And tie this crimson rope in the same window through which you let us down." 
Joshua2:19 Remember, if anyone ventures outside your house, his death will be his own fault, not ours! But if anyone inside your house is harmed, then we will be held responsible." 
Joshua2:20 And if you disclose our mission, we will be released from the oath you made us swear.”" 
Joshua2:21 Rahab replied in agreement, “Let it be as you say.” And she sent them away, and after they departed, she tied the crimson rope in her window." 
Joshua2:22 The spies went straight to the hill country and hid there for three days, until the pursuers turned back. The king’s men had scoured the countryside without finding them." 
Joshua2:23 Then the two men came down from the hills and crossed back over the Jordan to their camp. They reported to Joshua son of Nun all that had happened to them: 
Joshua2:24 “ Yahweh has certainly handed over the entire land into our hands! All the people of the land melt in fear before us!” 
Joshua3:1 Joshua was up bright and early the next morning. They broke camp, and Joshua led the Israelites from Acacia to the eastern bank of the Jordan. There they set up camp and waited until they crossed over." 
Joshua3:2 After three days, the leaders of the people went throughout the camp" 
Joshua3:3 giving orders to the people, “Watch for the priests of the tribe of Levi to lift the ark of the covenant of Yahweh your God. When it starts moving, follow it" 
Joshua3:4 so you’ll know which way to go, since you’ve never marched this way before. Follow about a half mile behind the ark; don’t go near it.”" 
Joshua3:5 Joshua instructed the people, “Get yourselves ready! Set yourselves apart for Yahweh! Tomorrow, Yahweh will perform for us great miracles!”" 
Joshua3:6 Joshua told the priests, “Raise up the ark of the covenant and step out ahead of the people.” So they lifted the ark onto their shoulders and marched in front of the people." 
Joshua3:7 Yahweh said to Joshua, “This very day I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel so that they will realize that I am with you in the same way I was with Moses." 
Joshua3:8 You are to command the priests who carry the ark of the covenant with these words: ‘Carry the ark to the edge of the Jordan and wade into the water.’ ” 
Joshua3:9 Joshua told the Israelites, “Come closer and listen to the words of Yahweh your God." 
Joshua3:10 This is how you will know for sure that the Living God is among you. As you advance into the land, he will drive out before you the Canaanites, Hittites, Hivites, Perizzites, Girgashites, Amorites, and Jebusites." 
Joshua3:11 Look! The ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth will go before you and prepare a way for you through the Jordan. 
Joshua3:12 Now select twelve men from among the people, one man from each tribe." 
Joshua3:13 “The moment the feet of the priests carrying the ark of Yahweh, the Lord of all the earth, touch the water of the Jordan, a great miracle will happen! The water flowing downstream toward you will stop and pile up as if behind a dam.”" 
Joshua3:14 Now it was time for the early harvest, and the river was overflowing at flood stage. When the people broke camp to cross the Jordan, the priests went in front of them carrying the ark of the covenant on their shoulders. The very moment the priests with the ark dipped their feet in the river’s edge," 
Joshua3:15  
Joshua3:16 the water coming downstream toward them stopped flowing and piled up in a solid wall as far upstream as Adam, a place near Zarethan. Yahweh completely cut off the flow of the river so that it drained downstream toward the Desert Sea (the Dead Sea). So the people crossed over opposite Jericho." 
Joshua3:17 Now the priests stood firmly on dry ground in the riverbed with the ark on their shoulders. The entire nation passed by the ark as they completed their miracle -crossing on dry ground. 
Joshua4:1 When the entire nation had finished their miracle-crossing of the Jordan, Yahweh said to Joshua," 
Joshua4:2 “Choose twelve men, one from each of the twelve tribes of Israel." 
Joshua4:3 Instruct each of them to take a stone from the riverbed, twelve stones from the very place where the priests stand with the ark. Have them carry the stones over to the place where you camp tonight.”" 
Joshua4:4 So Joshua summoned the twelve men he had selected from the Israelites, one per tribe." 
Joshua4:5 Joshua instructed them, “Walk out to the middle of the riverbed to the ark of Yahweh your God. Each of you choose a stone and lift it up onto your shoulder—one stone for each tribe." 
Joshua4:6 The stones will always be a sign to you. Someday, when your children ask you, ‘Why are these stones so important?’" 
Joshua4:7 tell them, ‘The Jordan stopped flowing in front of the ark of the covenant of Yahweh —the floodwaters were completely cut off.’ These stones will serve as a memorial for Israel forever.”" 
Joshua4:8 The Israelites did as Joshua commanded them. They took twelve stones according to the number of the tribes of Israel, from the middle of the riverbed, and carried them to the camp and put them there." 
Joshua4:9 Joshua set up the memorial stones that they had taken from the exact spot where the priests stood bearing the ark in the riverbed. They remain there to this day. 
Joshua4:10 While the priests remained standing in the middle of the Jordan with the ark on their shoulders, the people hurried across. All the instructions Yahweh had given to Joshua were carried out —just as Moses had told Joshua." 
Joshua4:11 And when Israel had finished crossing, the ark of Yahweh and the priests crossed as the people looked on." 
Joshua4:12 The Reubenites, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh went across, armed and ready for battle, in front of the Israelites, as Moses had commanded them." 
Joshua4:13 In all, about forty thousand men were equipped for battle. And they all marched before Yahweh to wage war on the plains of Jericho." 
Joshua4:14 On that day, Yahweh exalted Joshua before all the people. As they had stood in awe of Moses, so they stood in awe of Joshua for the rest of his life." 
Joshua4:15 Yahweh said to Joshua," 
Joshua4:16 “Command the priests carrying the ark of the covenant to come up from the Jordan.” 
Joshua4:17 So Joshua did as he was commanded," 
Joshua4:18 and the priests carrying the ark of the covenant of Yahweh came up from the riverbed. And the moment their feet touched the western bank of the Jordan, the floodwaters surged back in place where they were before and returned to flood stage." 
Joshua4:19 The people experienced the miracle-crossing of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month of the Jewish calendar. They established their base camp at Gilgal, east of Jericho," 
Joshua4:20 where Joshua set up a memorial with the twelve stones taken from the Jordan. 
Joshua4:21 He told the Israelites, “In time to come, when children ask their fathers, ‘Why are these stones so important?’" 
Joshua4:22 tell them, ‘Here is the place where the Israelites crossed the Jordan on dry ground!’" 
Joshua4:23 For your God, Yahweh, dried up the waters of the Jordan before your eyes until you crossed over, just as Yahweh your God did for us years ago; he dried up the Red Sea while we crossed over!" 
Joshua4:24 He has done these miracles so that all the earth will be in awe of the mighty power of Yahweh and that you might always obey Yahweh your God!” 
Joshua5:1 All the Amorite kings west of the Jordan and all the Canaanite kings along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea became terrified of the Israelites. For when they heard how Yahweh miraculously dried up the Jordan so that the Israelites could cross over, all their courage melted away." 
Joshua5:2 At that time, Yahweh commanded Joshua, “Make knives of flint and circumcise the men of Israel again.”" 
Joshua5:3 So Joshua made stone knives and circumcised all the men at a place they named Circumcision Hill. 
Joshua5:4 Joshua had to circumcise all the men and boys—all the fighting men. Although they had been circumcised before leaving Egypt, the male children born during the forty years they spent in the wilderness had not been circumcised. Also, by the end of that forty years, all the fighting men who had come out of Egypt had died because they had not listened to the voice of Yahweh. So Yahweh had made an oath that they would not see the land he had promised to give their ancestors, a fertile land." 
Joshua5:5  
Joshua5:6  
Joshua5:7 So he raised up their sons in their place, and Joshua circumcised them because they had not been circumcised on the way." 
Joshua5:8 After the circumcision was completed, the whole nation waited in the camp until their wounds had healed." 
Joshua5:9 Then Yahweh said to Joshua, “Today, I have rolled away your disgrace from being slaves in Egypt.” For that reason, the place is named Gilgal to this day." 
Joshua5:10 While encamped at Gilgal, not far from Jericho, the Israelites celebrated the Feast of Passover in the evening of the fourteenth day of the month of Abib." 
Joshua5:11 The very next day, they ate for the first time food grown in Canaan—roasted grain and flatbread made without yeast." 
Joshua5:12 On that day, when they ate the produce of the land, the manna stopped falling from heaven. The Israelites never ate manna again, but that year they enjoyed the fruit of the land of Canaan." 
Joshua5:13 When Joshua was near Jericho, he looked up and saw standing in front of him a man holding a drawn sword. Joshua approached him and said, “Are you on our side or on our enemies’?”" 
Joshua5:14 “Neither,” he replied. “I have not come to take sides but to take charge. I am the Commander of Yahweh ’s armies.” At once, Joshua threw himself facedown to the ground and worshiped, and he said to him, “I will do whatever you command, my Lord.”" 
Joshua5:15 The Commander of Yahweh ’s armies said to Joshua, “Remove your sandals, for you are standing on holy ground!” And Joshua obeyed." 
Joshua6:1 Now the gates of Jericho were bolted and barred because of the Israelites; no one could get in or out. 
Joshua6:2 Yahweh commanded Joshua, “See, I have given Jericho, its king and mighty warriors into your hands." 
Joshua6:3 March around the city with all your men of war once a day for six days. 
Joshua6:4 Have seven priests carry shofars in front of the ark. On the seventh day, march around the city seven times, with the priests blowing the shofars." 
Joshua6:5 When you hear the blare of the shofars, have all the people shout with a mighty shout of joy! Then the walls of the city will collapse before your eyes, and your whole army must charge straight in!”" 
Joshua6:6 So Joshua son of Nun summoned the priests and instructed them: “Take up the ark of the covenant, and have seven priests carry seven shofars in front of the ark of Yahweh.”" 
Joshua6:7 And to the people he said, “Forward! March around the city and set an advance guard of armed men to march ahead of the ark of Yahweh.”" 
Joshua6:8 At Joshua’s order, the seven priests carrying seven shofars advanced before Yahweh. The ark of the covenant of Yahweh followed them as they made long blasts on their shofars." 
Joshua6:9 The advance guard marched in front of the priests who were blowing the shofars, the rear guard marched behind the ark, and the shofars blared the whole time!" 
Joshua6:10 Now Joshua had commanded the rest of the people, “Do not shout! Remain silent! Don’t make a sound until the moment I command you to shout. Then lift up a shout with all your might!”" 
Joshua6:11 So the ark of Yahweh circled the city once, then they all came back to the camp in Gilgal and spent the night." 
Joshua6:12 Joshua rose bright and early the next morning, and the priests took up the ark of Yahweh." 
Joshua6:13 The armed men and the seven priests carrying the seven shofars marched in front of the ark of Yahweh blowing their shofars continually, and the rear guard followed the ark of Yahweh, while the trumpets kept sounding." 
Joshua6:14 On the second day, they circled the city once and again returned to the camp. They repeated this pattern for six days." 
Joshua6:15 On the seventh day, everyone rose at daybreak, and they marched around the city in the same manner seven times." 
Joshua6:16 After their seventh time around, when the priests were about to blow the shofars, Joshua commanded the people: “Shout a shout of joy! Yahweh has given you the city!" 
Joshua6:17 Jericho and everything in it are to be a devoted offering to Yahweh. But spare Rahab the prostitute and everyone in her house because she hid our spies. 
Joshua6:18 You must not take for yourselves anything that is dedicated to Yahweh or you will bring trouble and destruction to the entire Israelite camp! 
Joshua6:19 Everything made of silver, gold, bronze, and iron is sacred and devoted to Yahweh; place all of it in Yahweh ’s treasury!”" 
Joshua6:20 The people were ready to shout with a great shout when they heard the shofars. As soon as they heard the blast of the shofars, they raised a massive shout of jubilee like a thunderclap, and all at once the thick walls of Jericho collapsed! Everyone rushed straight ahead and captured the city." 
Joshua6:21 They utterly destroyed all that was in Jericho, men and women, young and old, livestock and donkeys—everything was destroyed with the sword." 
Joshua6:22 Joshua told the two spies who had entered Jericho, “Go to the prostitute’s house and rescue her and everyone in her house, just as you promised her.”" 
Joshua6:23 So the two spies brought out Rahab, her father, mother, brothers and sisters, and all who belonged to her, and gave them refuge outside the camp of Israel." 
Joshua6:24 Then they burned Jericho to the ground and all that was within it. Only the silver and gold, brass, and iron were placed into the treasury of Yahweh ’s house." 
Joshua6:25 Yet Joshua spared Rahab the prostitute, her father’s family, and all that belonged to her. She lives among the Israelites to this day because she hid the two men Joshua sent to spy out Jericho." 
Joshua6:26 Afterward, Joshua pronounced this solemn oath: “May Yahweh curse anyone who attempts to rebuild this city, Jericho! He will pay for laying its foundation with the life of his oldest son, and for setting up its gates with his youngest son!”" 
Joshua6:27 Yahweh ’s presence was with Joshua, and he became famous throughout the land." 
Joshua7:1 But the Israelites violated the commandment regarding the wealth of Jericho that was to be set apart for the Lord. Achan son of Carmi, grandson of Zimri, of the clan of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah, stole some of the devoted things for himself. This ignited Yahweh ’s anger against Israel." 
Joshua7:2 Joshua sent spies from Jericho to Ai (a small city near Beth Aven, southeast of Bethel), with orders to spy out the land. So the spies left for Ai." 
Joshua7:3 When they returned to Joshua, they reported to him, “There is no need to trouble the whole army to conquer Ai. The people are so few that two or three thousand men could attack it and take the city.”" 
Joshua7:4 So Joshua sent three thousand troops to attack the city, but they were routed by the men of Ai." 
Joshua7:5 The men of Ai chased them from the city gates, down the hill as far as the quarries, cutting them down as they fled. They killed thirty-six of Joshua’s men, and when Israel heard of their defeat, their hearts melted away with fear!" 
Joshua7:6 Joshua and the elders of Israel tore their clothes and threw dust over their heads to show their sorrow. They threw themselves facedown to the ground in front of the ark of Yahweh until the evening sacrifice. 
Joshua7:7 Joshua cried out, “O Lord Yahweh, why did you lead these people across the Jordan? To be defeated? To be killed by the Amorites? If only we had been content to stay on the other side of the Jordan!" 
Joshua7:8 O Lord, what can I say now that Israel has retreated from its enemies?" 
Joshua7:9 When the Canaanites and everyone else in the land hear about our defeat, they will gang up on us and wipe us off the face of the earth. And what then will you do about your great name?”" 
Joshua7:10 Yahweh spoke to Joshua: “Stand up! Why are you groveling before me? 
Joshua7:11 Israel has sinned! They have broken the covenant which I had commanded them to keep. They have taken forbidden plunder. They have stolen from me, taken what is mine, hidden it among their belongings, and lied about it." 
Joshua7:12 Cursed things are among you! That is why Israel is powerless, has retreated from their enemies, and is in danger of annihilation. If you do not get rid of these cursed things from among you, I will not go with you any longer." 
Joshua7:13 Get up and purify the people in preparation for tomorrow. Tell them, ‘This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel says: “O Israel, you have in your midst what must be devoted entirely to me! You cannot stand against your enemies until you remove the devoted things from your midst!”" 
Joshua7:14 Tomorrow morning, you shall present yourselves by tribes. Yahweh will indicate which tribe must come forward by clans. Yahweh will indicate which clan must come forward by families. And Yahweh will indicate which family must come forward one by one." 
Joshua7:15 Then finally, Yahweh will expose the man caught with the devoted things, which must be destroyed by fire. Everything that man owns you must likewise destroy by fire, for he has violated the covenant of Yahweh and committed an outrageous act in Israel!’ ”" 
Joshua7:16 Joshua was up at the crack of dawn and had Israel come forward by tribes, and Yahweh indicated the tribe of Judah." 
Joshua7:17 Joshua then had the clans of Judah come forward, and Yahweh picked out the clan of Zerah. Joshua then had the clan of Zerah come forward and Yahweh indicated the family of Zimri." 
Joshua7:18 Joshua then had Zimri’s family come forward one by one, and Yahweh picked out Achan, the son of Carmi, son of Zimri, son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah." 
Joshua7:19 Then Joshua said to Achan, “My son, give glory to Yahweh, the God of Israel, and confess. Tell me the truth and do not hide anything from him. What have you done?”" 
Joshua7:20 “It’s true,” Achan said. “I’ve sinned against Yahweh, the God of Israel. This is what I did:" 
Joshua7:21 I saw among the plunder an exquisite robe from Babylon, two hundred pieces of silver, and a fifty-shekel bar of gold. I wanted them badly, so I took them and buried them in my tent with the silver underneath.”" 
Joshua7:22 Joshua sent messengers who ran to the tent, and there it was! They found it buried in the middle of the tent with the silver underneath." 
Joshua7:23 They took the stolen objects from the tent, brought them to Joshua and all the Israelites, and displayed them in the presence of Yahweh." 
Joshua7:24 Then Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan son of Zerah along with the silver, the robe, the bar of gold, and all that belonged to him—his sons, daughters, donkeys, oxen, sheep, tent—everything. Joshua led them all to the Valley of Trouble" 
Joshua7:25 and said, “Why have you brought all this trouble on us? Yahweh will bring trouble on you today!” Then all the people stoned Achan and his family to death. They burned up the bodies and all Achan’s possessions." 
Joshua7:26 They raised over him a huge mound of stones that remains to this day. That is why the place was called the Valley of Trouble ever since. Afterward, Yahweh ’s anger subsided against Israel." 
Joshua8:1 Yahweh said to Joshua, “Do not yield to fear nor shrink back because of Israel’s failure. Now, get up, take all your soldiers with you, and march against Ai. See, I have handed over to you the city, the king, his people, and his land." 
Joshua8:2 Do to Ai what you did to Jericho and its king, except this time, you may take the plunder, including livestock. Set an ambush behind the city.”" 
Joshua8:3 Joshua and his entire army set out to attack Ai. He chose thirty thousand valiant warriors and sent them ahead by night 
Joshua8:4 with these instructions: “Now pay attention. Set an ambush behind Ai, but don’t hide very far away. Stay alert and ready for battle!" 
Joshua8:5 I’ll lead the rest of the army and make a direct assault on the city, and when they come out to fight us, we’ll flee from them as we did the first time." 
Joshua8:6 When this happens, they’ll say to themselves, ‘Look! They’re running away from us, just like last time!’ And they’ll keep chasing us until we’ve lured them away from the city. While we’re running away from them," 
Joshua8:7 jump up from your hiding place, race into Ai, and seize it. Yahweh, your God, will deliver the city into your hands!" 
Joshua8:8 When you’ve captured the city, set it on fire. Now that you have your orders, go and do as Yahweh has commanded!”" 
Joshua8:9 Joshua then sent them off, and they proceeded to take up a concealed position west of Ai, between Ai and Bethel, while Joshua spent the night with the rest of the troops." 
Joshua8:10 So early the next morning, Joshua mustered his troops. He and the leaders of Israel went in front of the army and led them toward Ai." 
Joshua8:11 The entire fighting force with Joshua advanced until they were near the city and encamped north of Ai, with a valley between them and the city." 
Joshua8:12 He placed a smaller force of about five thousand men west of the city to set an ambush between Bethel and Ai. 
Joshua8:13 The main fighting force north of the city prepared for battle, while the rear guard held a concealed position west of the city. Joshua spent the night in the valley." 
Joshua8:14 At dawn, when the king of Ai saw the Israelites, he and his army rushed out to fight. They ran to attack Israel at a predetermined place en route to the Arabah, not knowing that an ambush had been set against them behind the city." 
Joshua8:15 Joshua and all the main fighting force fled toward the wilderness as though they were being overcome. 
Joshua8:16 Joshua’s tactic drew all of Ai’s reinforcements out of the city, and they set off in hot pursuit of Joshua and his men." 
Joshua8:17 Not a man remained in Ai or in Bethel who did not go out in pursuit of Israel, leaving their city undefended." 
Joshua8:18 Then Yahweh spoke to Joshua and said, “Now, take the spear in your hand and point it toward Ai, for I will hand the city over to you!” So Joshua pointed his spear toward the city," 
Joshua8:19 and when Joshua gave this signal, all the men waiting in ambush behind the city jumped up from their position and poured into Ai. They quickly captured it and set it on fire." 
Joshua8:20 When the men of Ai looked back, they saw the smoke of their city rising to the sky. Joshua and his men also saw the smoke and knew that the other Israelite soldiers had captured the city and had set it on fire. The army of Ai had no place to escape, so Joshua and his men turned on them and began killing them." 
Joshua8:21  
Joshua8:22 The men who had taken the city came out and joined the battle, so the Israelites had them surrounded. Israel cut them down, leaving neither survivors nor fugitives." 
Joshua8:23 But they captured the king of Ai alive and brought him to Joshua. 
Joshua8:24 Joshua’s men killed all the inhabitants of Ai in the fields and in the wilderness where they had chased them. They all fell by the sword. Then the Israelites turned to attack Ai and killed those who were still there. 
Joshua8:25 Joshua kept his spear pointed at Ai until the destruction was complete. Ai’s entire population, twelve thousand men and women, fell that day." 
Joshua8:26  
Joshua8:27 However, the Israelites took the livestock and the goods captured in the city as Yahweh had instructed Joshua." 
Joshua8:28 Then Joshua burned Ai to the ground and reduced it to a mound of ruins for all time. It remains desolate to this day. 
Joshua8:29 And he hanged the king of Ai on a tree until sunset. Then at sunset, Joshua had the corpse taken down and left it lying in front of where the city gates once stood. They raised a large pile of stones over his corpse, where it remains to this day." 
Joshua8:30 Afterward, Joshua built near Mount Ebal a stone altar to Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Joshua8:31 He made it according to the teaching in the law of Moses, Yahweh ’s servant. Moses had commanded them to build an altar using stones that had not been cut with iron tools. On it they offered to Yahweh burnt sacrifices and fellowship offerings." 
Joshua8:32 And with the Israelites looking on, Joshua inscribed on stones the law which Moses had written." 
Joshua8:33 All Israel, including their elders, officials, and judges, stood on either side of the ark. Both native-born citizens and immigrants alike faced the ark of the covenant of Yahweh and the Levitical priests who carried it. In front of half of them stood Mount Gerizim, and in front of the other half stood Mount Ebal, as Yahweh ’s servant Moses commanded at first to bless the people of Israel." 
Joshua8:34 Afterward, Joshua read aloud all the words of the law, the blessings and the curses, exactly as it was written in the scroll of the law." 
Joshua8:35 Joshua read aloud every word that Moses had commanded, and all the assembly of Israel heard it, including the women, the children, and the foreigners who accompanied them." 
Joshua9:1 Now when all the kings west of the Jordan heard about these things—those in the hill country, in the western foothills, and along the entire coast of the Great Sea as far as Lebanon (the kings of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites)—" 
Joshua9:2 they came together to make war against Joshua and Israel. 
Joshua9:3 When the inhabitants of Gibeon learned how Joshua had destroyed Jericho and Ai," 
Joshua9:4 they resorted to a ruse: They sent a delegation disguised as messengers from a distant land. They loaded their donkeys with worn-out sacks and old, patched wineskins." 
Joshua9:5 They wore old, patched sandals on their feet and old, tattered clothes, and took along dry, moldy bread." 
Joshua9:6 When they arrived at Israel’s camp at Gilgal, they said to Joshua and the Israelites: “We’ve come from a far country to propose that you make a treaty with us.”" 
Joshua9:7 The men of Israel asked the Hivites, “Perhaps you live nearby. Why should we make a treaty with you?”" 
Joshua9:8 “We are willing to be your servants,” they answered Joshua. Joshua questioned them further, “Who are you and where are you from?”" 
Joshua9:9 The Gibeonites replied: “Your servants come from a very distant land because we’ve heard of the fame of your God, Yahweh. We’ve heard of his wonders and all that he did in Egypt." 
Joshua9:10 We’ve also heard of all he did to help you defeat the two Amorite kings on the other side of the Jordan—King Sihon of Heshbon and King Og of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth." 
Joshua9:11 Therefore, our leaders and all the inhabitants of our land sent us to find you with these instructions: ‘Get food ready for your long trip, and go to the Israelites and say to them, “Make a treaty with us. We’re willing to be your servants.” ’" 
Joshua9:12 Look at our bread! It was still warm when we left home with it. See how dry and moldy it’s become! 
Joshua9:13 These wineskins were new when we filled them. See how they’ve dried up and burst! And look, our clothes and sandals are worn out from our long journey.”" 
Joshua9:14 The leaders of Israel ratified a peace treaty with the Gibeonites by sharing a meal together, but they failed to consult with Yahweh." 
Joshua9:15 Joshua agreed to let them live. He made a peace treaty with them, and the leaders of the assembly sealed it with an oath." 
Joshua9:16 But three days after the treaty had been made, the Israelites learned that they had been deceived. In fact, the Gibeonites were from the local area and lived nearby." 
Joshua9:17 So the Israelites set out at once, and on the third day, they came to their cities: Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath Jearim." 
Joshua9:18 But the Israelites did not attack them because the leaders of the assembly had sworn an oath to them in the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel. This caused Israel to grumble against their leaders," 
Joshua9:19 but the leaders told the assembly of Israel, “We cannot touch them, for we swore an oath to them in the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Joshua9:20 We must let them live for fear that God’s anger will come upon us because of the oath we swore to them.” So they became woodcutters and water carriers for the community of Israel, as their leaders had decreed." 
Joshua9:21  
Joshua9:22 Joshua summoned the Gibeonites and asked them, “Why did you deceive us? You told us that you lived very far from us, but we now know for a fact that you live right here near us." 
Joshua9:23 Therefore, we will spare your lives, but you will live under a curse, and you will be condemned to perpetual servitude. You will serve the house of my God by cutting wood and carrying water for us.”" 
Joshua9:24 They answered Joshua, “We lied, sir, because we greatly feared for our lives. We know for certain all about Moses and how he served Yahweh, your God. We know for certain that Yahweh will honor his promise to Moses and give you all these lands as your own. And we know for certain that he commanded you to wipe out all the inhabitants living here and thus take possession of this land." 
Joshua9:25 Now we are at your mercy, so do with us what you consider right and proper.”" 
Joshua9:26 So Joshua had mercy and saved them from being killed by the Israelites. 
Joshua9:27 That day, he made them woodcutters and water carriers to serve the community of Israel for the altar of Yahweh at his divinely chosen place. And that is what they do to this day." 
Joshua10:1 Adoni-zedek, the king of Jerusalem, was struck with fear when he heard how Joshua had totally destroyed the kings and cities of Ai and Jericho and that the people of Gibeon had made a peace treaty with Israel and were living alongside them. The city of Gibeon was larger than Ai, as large as any of the cities that were ruled by a king, and all its men were known as great warriors." 
Joshua10:2  
Joshua10:3 So King Adoni-zedek of Jerusalem sent messages to King Hoham of Hebron, King Piram of Jarmuth, King Japhia of Lachish, and King Debir of Eglon:" 
Joshua10:4 “The people of Gibeon have made peace with Joshua and the Israelites. Come and help me attack them.” 
Joshua10:5 The five Amorite kings joined forces—the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon. Their combined armies surrounded Gibeon and attacked it." 
Joshua10:6 The Gibeonites sent out a call for help to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal: “Don’t abandon us, for we are your servants! Come quickly and save us! Help us, for the Amorite kings of the hill country have surrounded us!”" 
Joshua10:7 So Joshua and all his fighting men, all the mighty warriors of Israel, left Gilgal to aid the Gibeonites." 
Joshua10:8 Yahweh spoke to Joshua: “Do not fear the Amorite kings and their armies, for I have decreed your victory over them; not one will withstand you!”" 
Joshua10:9 Joshua and his fighting force marched all night long from Gilgal to Gibeon and took them all by surprise! 
Joshua10:10 Joshua inflicted a crushing defeat on them at Gibeon, for Yahweh threw the Amorites into a panic at the sudden sight of Israel’s army! Yahweh empowered Joshua and his army to chase them in the direction of the Beth Horon ascent, and they slaughtered the kings’ armies all the way to Azekah and the city of Makkedah." 
Joshua10:11 As the Amorites raced down the hill to Beth Horon, Yahweh hurled large hailstones on them from the sky! The hail continued to fall all the way to Azekah; in fact, more men died from Yahweh ’s hailstones than by the swords of the Israelites." 
Joshua10:12 Yahweh gave the men of Israel victory over the Amorites that day, the day when Joshua stood before the people and prayed to Yahweh: “Sun, stand still over Gibeon! Moon, stay where you are over the valley of Aijalon!”" 
Joshua10:13 And so the sun stood still in the middle of the sky and was in no hurry to set until one day became two. And the moon halted while the nation triumphed over its enemies—as it is also recorded in the Scroll of the Upright One. 
Joshua10:14 It was the day Yahweh himself fought for Israel! There has never been a day like it before or since—a day when Yahweh obeyed the voice of a man! 
Joshua10:15 After their victory, Joshua and his fighting men returned to their camp at Gilgal." 
Joshua10:16 Meanwhile, the five Amorite kings fled and hid in a cave at Makkedah." 
Joshua10:17 When Joshua was told that the five kings had been found hiding in a cave at Makkedah," 
Joshua10:18 Joshua ordered his men, “Seal up the mouth of the cave with large stones and post guards in front of it." 
Joshua10:19 But don’t stop! Pursue your enemies! Cut off their retreat and don’t let them reach their cities, for Yahweh your God has given them into your hand!”" 
Joshua10:20 So Joshua and the Israelites nearly killed them all—almost to a man—although a few escaped into the fortified cities. 
Joshua10:21 The whole army returned safely to Joshua at the camp in Makkedah. No one dared speak against the Israelites. 
Joshua10:22 Then Joshua ordered, “Open up the cave and bring the five kings out to me.”" 
Joshua10:23 So Joshua’s men removed the five kings from the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon, and brought them before Joshua." 
Joshua10:24 Joshua summoned all of Israel and ordered his army officers, “Place your feet on the necks of these kings.” So they placed their feet upon their necks!" 
Joshua10:25 Then Joshua said to his officers, “Never be afraid of your enemies or let them discourage you. Be strong and filled with courage! Yahweh is going to do to all your enemies what he’s done to these kings!”" 
Joshua10:26 Then Joshua had the kings executed and hanged on five trees, and he left them there until evening." 
Joshua10:27 At sunset, Joshua ordered them taken down from the trees and thrown into the cave where they had been hiding. He had large stones rolled over the mouth of the cave, and they remain there to this day." 
Joshua10:28 That day, Joshua captured Makkedah, annihilated the inhabitants, and put its king to the sword, leaving no survivors. And he did to its king what had been done to the king of Jericho." 
Joshua10:29 From Makkedah, Joshua and his army marched southwest to the city of Libnah and attacked it." 
Joshua10:30 By the power of Yahweh, the city and its king were handed over to the Israelites. They annihilated all the inhabitants with the sword, leaving no survivors. And they did to its king what they had done to the king of Jericho." 
Joshua10:31 From Libnah, Joshua and his army marched south to the city of Lachish and attacked it." 
Joshua10:32 By the power of Yahweh, the city was handed over to Joshua on the second day of the battle. They annihilated all the inhabitants of the city, just as they had done to Libnah." 
Joshua10:33 Meanwhile, Horam, king of Gezer, had marched out to help Lachish, but Joshua defeated him and his army, leaving no survivors." 
Joshua10:34 Then Joshua and all the Israelite army marched on from Lachish to attack the city of Eglon. 
Joshua10:35 By the power of Yahweh, they captured the city in one day and destroyed its inhabitants, just as they had done to Lachish." 
Joshua10:36 Then Joshua and all the Israelite army marched from Eglon and attacked Hebron. 
Joshua10:37 By the power of Yahweh, they captured the city, the king, and nearby villages, and totally wiped out all the inhabitants, leaving no survivors, just as they had done to Eglon." 
Joshua10:38 Lastly, Joshua and all the Israelite army turned around and attacked Debir." 
Joshua10:39 By the power of Yahweh, they captured the city, the king, and nearby villages, and totally wiped out all the inhabitants, leaving no survivors. They did to Debir and its king as they had done to Libnah and its king and to Hebron." 
Joshua10:40 Yahweh empowered Joshua to conquer the whole region, including the hill country, the southern desert, the western foothills, and the mountain slopes. He conquered all the kings of the land and left no survivors. Everything that breathed was slaughtered—as Yahweh, the God of Israel, had commanded." 
Joshua10:41 Joshua’s conquest stretched from Kadesh Barnea to Gaza, and from Goshen to Gibeon." 
Joshua10:42 Joshua conquered all their kings and their lands in a single campaign, for Yahweh, the God of Israel, fought for his people." 
Joshua10:43 Finally, Joshua and all the Israelite army returned to their base camp in Gilgal." 
Joshua11:1 When the news of Israel’s southern victories reached King Jabin of Hazor, he organized a massive coalition to fight against Israel. He sent messages to: King Jobab of Merom, the king of Shimron, the king of Achshaph," 
Joshua11:1 When the news of Israel’s southern victories reached King Jabin of Hazor, he organized a massive coalition to fight against Israel. He sent messages to: King Jobab of Merom, the king of Shimron, the king of Achshaph," 
Joshua11:2 the kings of the northern hill country, the kings of the Jordan Valley south of Lake Galilee, the kings of the foothills, the western kings in the heights of Dor," 
Joshua11:3 the eastern and western Canaanite kings, the Amorite kings, the Hittite kings, the Perizzite kings, the Jebusite kings in the highlands, and the Hivite kings who lived near Mount Hermon in the land of Mizpah." 
Joshua11:4 They came out in full force with a multitude of horses and chariots. Their vast armies were as numerous as the grains of sand on the seashore. 
Joshua11:5 All these kings and their enormous armies joined forces and encamped at Lake Merom to fight against Israel. 
Joshua11:6 Yahweh spoke to Joshua, saying, “Don’t be afraid of them; by this time tomorrow, I, Yahweh, will have them all lying slain before Israel. After the battle, cripple their horses and burn their chariots.”" 
Joshua11:7 Joshua launched his surprise attack, and all his army pounced on them at their camp at Lake Merom." 
Joshua11:8 Yahweh fought alongside Joshua’s fighting men to defeat them. Part of the Israelite army attacked and pursued the retreating forces as far north as the cities of Misrephoth Maim and Sidon. Another part of the Israelite army pursued the enemy as far east as the valley of Mizpah and crushed them all, leaving no survivors." 
Joshua11:9 Afterward, Joshua crippled their horses and burned their chariots as Yahweh had commanded." 
Joshua11:10 Because Hazor at that time was the most powerful of all these kingdoms, Joshua circled back after the battle and conquered it." 
Joshua11:11 They killed the king, burned Hazor to the ground, and annihilated all its inhabitants. They spared not one breathing thing, leaving no survivors." 
Joshua11:12 Joshua conquered all those royal cities and their kings. He destroyed them all, as Yahweh ’s servant Moses had commanded." 
Joshua11:13 However, of all the cities built on mounds, Joshua burned down only Hazor." 
Joshua11:14 The Israelites kept all the spoils of these towns, including the livestock, but the inhabitants they killed with the sword. There were no survivors." 
Joshua11:15 Just as Yahweh commanded his servant Moses, so Moses commanded Joshua, and Joshua obeyed everything that Yahweh commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:16 So Joshua conquered the entire region: the Judean hills, the southern desert, all the land of Goshen, the foothills, the lowlands of the Jordan Valley, the northern hill country of Israel including its lowlands—" 
Joshua11:17 everything from Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir, all the way to Baal-Gad in the Lebanon Valley below Mount Hermon. Joshua captured all their kings and executed them." 
Joshua11:18 Joshua waged war with all those kings over a long period. 
Joshua11:19 Apart from the Hivites living in Gibeon, not one city made peace with Israel. By the power of Yahweh, Joshua conquered them all." 
Joshua11:20 Yahweh himself hardened their hearts and made them obstinate so they would attack Israel. Yahweh had determined to wipe them out and condemn them to destruction without mercy, just as he had commanded Moses." 
Joshua11:21 Joshua also drove out the Anakim, a race of giants, from the hill country (including the cities of Hebron, Debir, and Anab)—from the entire hill country of Judah and Israel. Joshua destroyed the Anakim and their towns" 
Joshua11:22 so that there were no surviving Anakim in Israelite territory. Some survived but only in the Philistine cities of Gaza, Gath, and Ashdod." 
Joshua11:23 Joshua conquered the whole land, just as Yahweh had promised Moses. Joshua assigned portions of the land to each of the tribes of Israel, and the Israelites lived in peace throughout the land." 
Joshua12:1 On the east side of the Jordan, Moses and the Israelites had conquered two kings, Sihon and Og. The Israelites occupied their territory, which extended from the Arnon Valley in the south to Mount Hermon in the north, including the entire eastern desert." 
Joshua12:2 Sihon, king of the Amorites, reigned in Heshbon and ruled over the southern half of Gilead, from Aroer on the edge of the Arnon River Valley in the south to the River Jabbok in the north, which is the border of the Ammonites." 
Joshua12:3 The western area of his kingdom included the eastern desert from Lake Galilee to the Dead Sea (the Salt Sea). His territory included the area east of the Dead Sea as far as the town of Beth Jeshimoth and as far south as Mount Pisgah. 
Joshua12:4 Og, the king of Bashan, was one of the last of the race of giants. He reigned in the cities of Ashtaroth and Edrei. He ruled over all of Bashan, the northern half of Gilead, to the boundary of Sihon, king of Heshbon." 
Joshua12:5 His territory included Mount Hermon in the north and Salecah in the east, and south to the boundary of the Geshurites and the Maacathites." 
Joshua12:6 Moses and the Israelites conquered the two kings, Sihon and Og. Moses, the servant of Yahweh, divided their land east of the Jordan among the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh." 
Joshua12:7 On the west side of the Jordan, Joshua and the Israelites defeated thirty-one kings, from Baal-Gad in the Lebanon Valley in the north to Mount Halak in the south near Edom. Then Joshua divided this land among the tribes of Israel and gave them their portions as permanent possessions—" 
Joshua12:8 the hill country, the western foothills, and the Jordan Valley, the mountain slopes, the wilderness of Judea, and the southern desert region— the land of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites." 
Joshua13:1 Many years passed, and Joshua was a very old man. One day, Yahweh spoke to him: “Although you have reached a ripe old age, a great deal of land remains for you to conquer." 
Joshua13:2 The territory waiting for you to possess includes all the land of the Geshurites and the Philistines. (The kings of the Philistines lived at Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath, and Ekron.)" 
Joshua13:3 And also all the territory of the Avvites to the south. (The land from the stream of Shihor, at the Egyptian border, as far north as the border of Ekron was considered Canaanite.)" 
Joshua13:4 There is still all the Canaanite territory from the Sidonian city of Mearah (which belonged to the Sidonians) as far as the Amorite border city of Aphek. 
Joshua13:5 You have still not conquered the land of the Gebalites, all the land eastward to Lebanon, from the city of Baal-Gad, which is south of Mount Hermon, to Hamath Pass." 
Joshua13:6 You still must conquer the land of the Sidonians who live in the hill country between the Lebanon Mountains and Misrephoth Maim. As the people of Israel advance, I myself will drive out these peoples from before you! Divide the land among the tribes of Israel exactly as I have commanded you." 
Joshua13:7 Divide among the other nine tribes and the other half-tribe of Manasseh the territory west of the Jordan to possess as their inheritance.” 
Joshua13:8 The tribes of Reuben, Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh had already received their portion of the land on the east side of the Jordan, which Yahweh ’s servant Moses had assigned to them." 
Joshua13:9 These tribes occupied the land as far southeast as the city of Aroer on the edge of the Arnon Valley, including the city in the middle of the valley and the plain from Dibon in the south, north to Medeba." 
Joshua13:10 Their territory went as far east as the border of Ammon, including all the cities over which King Sihon, the Amorite king, ruled over from Heshbon." 
Joshua13:11 It also included Gilead, the land of the Geshurites and Maacathites, all of Mount Hermon, and all of Bashan to its eastern boundary of Salecah." 
Joshua13:12 It encompassed the entire kingdom of Og (the last of the Rephaites) in Bashan, who ruled from Ashtaroth and at Edrei. Moses had defeated them and possessed their lands," 
Joshua13:13 except for the Geshurites and Maacathites, who still live among the Israelites to this day." 
Joshua13:14 However, Moses did not assign any land as an inheritance to the tribe of Levi, for their inheritance was to share in the sacrificial offerings made to Yahweh, the God of Israel, as he promised them." 
Joshua13:15 The land Moses assigned to the families of the tribe of Reuben 
Joshua13:16 extended from Aroer, on the edge of the Arnon Valley, including the city in the middle of the valley, the whole plain of Medeba," 
Joshua13:17 Heshbon and all its surrounding towns on the plain, including Dibon, Bamoth Baal, Beth Baal Meon," 
Joshua13:18 Jahaz, Kedemoth, Mephaath," 
Joshua13:19 Kiriathaim, Sibmah, Zereth Shahar on the hill in the valley," 
Joshua13:20 Beth Peor, the slopes of Pisgah, and Beth Jeshimoth," 
Joshua13:21 including all the cities of the plain, and the whole kingdom of Sihon the Amorite, who had ruled at Heshbon. Moses defeated him and the Midianite tribal chiefs, Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba, who dwelt in the land as princes of Sihon." 
Joshua13:22 Among those the Israelites killed in battle was the fortune-teller Balaam son of Beor. 
Joshua13:23 The western boundary of the Reubenites was the Jordan River. These cities and their surrounding villages comprised the inheritance of the families of the tribe of Reuben. 
Joshua13:24 The land Moses assigned to the families of the tribe of Gad 
Joshua13:25 included Jazer, all the cities of Gilead, and half the Ammonite country as far as Aroer, near Rabbah." 
Joshua13:26 It extended north from the city of Heshbon to Ramath Mizpah and Betonim, continuing on to the city of Mahanaim, and to the borders of Lo-Debar." 
Joshua13:27 In addition, the tribe of Gad received the land along the eastern side of the Jordan River as far north as the southern end of Lake Galilee. This included the cities of Beth Haram, Beth Nimrah, Sukkoth, and Zaphon, all of which were in the Jordan Valley." 
Joshua13:28 These cities and their surrounding villages comprised the inheritance of the families of the tribe of Gad. 
Joshua13:29 The land Moses assigned to the families of the half-tribe of Manasseh 
Joshua13:30 extended north from the city of Mahanaim, including all of Bashan and the sixty villages of Jair. King Og of Bashan had once ruled over all this territory." 
Joshua13:31 Moses had given half of Gilead to this half-tribe of Manasseh, which descended from Manasseh’s son Machir, including the cities of Ashtaroth and Edrei, where king Og had once ruled." 
Joshua13:32 Moses had distributed all the territory of Moab in the Jordan Valley east of Jericho as the inheritances of these two and a half tribes of Israel. 
Joshua13:33 But Moses gave no inheritance of land to the tribe of Levi, but said to them, “ Yahweh, the God of Israel, is to be your inheritance.”" 
Joshua14:1 Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the Israelite tribal leaders divided the land west of the Jordan among the people of Israel as their inheritance." 
Joshua14:2 By drawing lots, Eleazar assigned territory to the nine and a half tribes, as Yahweh had commanded Moses." 
Joshua14:3 The descendants of Joseph were divided into two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. Moses had already granted land east of the Jordan, but the tribe of Levi did not receive land as their inheritance. However, they were assigned cities in which to live and pasturelands for their property and livestock." 
Joshua14:4  
Joshua14:5 So the Israelites divided the land as Yahweh had commanded Moses. 
Joshua14:6 One day, while Israel was encamped at Gilgal, the people of Judah approached Joshua, including Caleb son of Jephunneh from the Kenizzite clan. Caleb said to Joshua, “Remember what Yahweh said to Moses about you and me while we were still at Kadesh Barnea." 
Joshua14:7 I was forty years old when Moses, Yahweh ’s servant, sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land of Canaan, and I brought back an honest and accurate report." 
Joshua14:8 I have been faithful and obedient to Yahweh, my God. But my fellow spies who went with me only discouraged the people and made their hearts shrink back with fear." 
Joshua14:9 On that day, Moses made an oath and promised me, ‘Every part of the land your feet tread upon shall be an inheritance for you and your descendants forever because you were loyal to Yahweh, my God.’" 
Joshua14:10 “ So here I am. It’s been forty-five years since Yahweh made this promise to Moses, when Israel journeyed through the wilderness. Yahweh has preserved me, an eighty-five-year-old man, to this day." 
Joshua14:11 I’m still as strong today as on that day when Moses sent me out! I’m just as fit to go out to battle now as I was then. 
Joshua14:12 Now give me the hill country that Yahweh promised me on that day. You yourself were there and heard the report that the Anakim lived there in strong and fortified cities. I know that with the power of Yahweh helping me, I will drive them out, just as Yahweh said!”" 
Joshua14:13 Joshua spoke God’s blessing over Caleb son of Jephunneh and gave him Hebron as his inheritance. 
Joshua14:14 So Hebron has belonged to Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite ever since because he passionately followed Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Joshua14:15 (Hebron used to be called the City of Arba, after Arba, the most famous of all the Anakim.) Then the land was free of war." 
Joshua15:1 Here is the land allotted to the families of the tribe of Judah: Their territory extended southward to the Wilderness of Zin, which belonged to Edom." 
Joshua15:2 Their boundary started from the bay at the southern end of the Dead Sea," 
Joshua15:3 crossed south of Scorpion Pass, continued to Zin, and went on south of Kadesh Barnea. Then it went past Hezron up to Addar and curved around to Karka," 
Joshua15:4 continued to Azmon and followed the stream on the border of Egypt in a northwesterly direction to the Mediterranean Sea. That is the southern border of all the tribes of Israel. 
Joshua15:5 The Dead Sea formed the eastern border of Judah, and its territory lay to the west toward the Mediterranean Sea. Their northern border began there" 
Joshua15:6 and went up to Beth Hoglah and continued north of the ridge overlooking the Jordan Valley. From there it went up to the Stone of Bohan, named after Bohan, Reuben’s son." 
Joshua15:7 The boundary then went up to Debir from the Valley of Achor and turned north to Gilgal, which faces Adummim Pass south of the gorge. It continued along to the waters of En Shemesh and ended at En Rogel." 
Joshua15:8 Then the boundary ran through the Hinnom Valley along the southern slope of Jebus (now known as Jerusalem). From there it went to the top of the hill west of the Hinnom Valley at the northern end of the Valley of Rephaites. 
Joshua15:9 It continued from the top of the mountain to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah, and from there to the town of Mount Ephron and on to Baalah, which today is called Kiriath Jearim." 
Joshua15:10 It then turned west from Baalah to Mount Seir and ran along the northern shoulder of Mount Jearim (that is, Kesalon), descended to the city of Beth Shemesh, and crossed to the city of Timnah." 
Joshua15:11 The border then went north to the ridge of the city of Ekron, turned toward the city of Shikkeron, crossed to Mount Baalah, and came out at the city of Jamnia. The border ended at the southern end of the Dead Sea." 
Joshua15:12 The western boundary was the Mediterranean coastline. This was the territory that belonged to the families of the tribe of Judah. 
Joshua15:13 Yahweh had commanded Joshua, “Give a share of the territory from the tribe of Judah to Caleb son of Jephunneh.” So Joshua gave him the city of Hebron which was founded by Arba, the ancestor of Anak." 
Joshua15:14 Caleb drove out three Anakim from Hebron: Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai—descendants of Anak." 
Joshua15:15 From Hebron, he marched out and fought against the people of Debir, which used to be called Kiriath Sepher." 
Joshua15:16 Caleb once promised, “Whoever succeeds in capturing Kiriath Sepher may marry my daughter Achsah.”" 
Joshua15:17 Caleb’s nephew Othniel, the son of his brother Kenaz, took the city, so Caleb gave him the hand of his daughter Achsah in marriage." 
Joshua15:18 One day, Achsah came and charmed her father so that she could ask him for a gift. When she got down from her donkey, Caleb said to her, “What would you like for a wedding present?”" 
Joshua15:19 “Father,” she replied, “give me a special gift. You have already given me land, but it’s in arid country. Please, also give me some springs of water.” So Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs near the city of Hebron." 
Joshua15:20 These are the cities given as an inheritance to the families of the tribe of Judah. 
Joshua15:21 The cities of the first district in the extreme south near the border of Edom included Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur," 
Joshua15:22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah," 
Joshua15:23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan," 
Joshua15:24 Ziph, Telem, Bealoth," 
Joshua15:25 Hazor Hadattah, Kerioth Hezron (that is, Hazor)," 
Joshua15:26 Amam, Shema, Moladah," 
Joshua15:27 Hazar Gaddah, Heshmon, Beth Pelet," 
Joshua15:28 Hazar Shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah," 
Joshua15:29 Baalah, Iyyim, Ezem," 
Joshua15:30 Eltolad, Kesil, Hormah," 
Joshua15:31 Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah," 
Joshua15:32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon—a total of twenty-nine towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:33 The cities of the second district in the western foothills included Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah," 
Joshua15:34 Zanoah, En Gannim, Tappuah, Enam," 
Joshua15:35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah," 
Joshua15:36 Shaaraim, Adithaim, and Gederah (or Gederothaim) —fourteen towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:37 The cities of the third district included Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal Gad," 
Joshua15:38 Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel," 
Joshua15:39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon," 
Joshua15:40 Cabbon, Lahmas, Kitlish," 
Joshua15:41 Gederoth, Beth Dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah—sixteen towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:42 The cities of the fourth district included Libnah, Ether, Ashan," 
Joshua15:43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib," 
Joshua15:44 Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah—nine towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:45 The cities of the fifth district included Ekron, with its surrounding settlements and villages;" 
Joshua15:46 from Ekron westward, all the towns in the vicinity of Ashdod, together with their villages;" 
Joshua15:47 Ashdod, and its surrounding settlements and villages; and Gaza, its settlements and villages, as far south as the Wadi of Egypt and as far west as the coastline of the Mediterranean Sea." 
Joshua15:48 The cities of the sixth district in the Judean hills included Shamir, Jattir, Socoh," 
Joshua15:49 Dannah, Kiriath Sannah (that is, Debir)," 
Joshua15:50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim," 
Joshua15:51 Goshen, Holon, and Giloh—eleven towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:52 The cities of the seventh district included Arab, Dumah, Eshan," 
Joshua15:53 Janim, Beth Tappuah, Aphekah," 
Joshua15:54 Humtah, Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron), and Zior—nine towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:55 The cities of the eighth district included Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah," 
Joshua15:56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah," 
Joshua15:57 Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah—ten towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:58 The cities of the ninth district included Halhul, Beth Zur, Gedor," 
Joshua15:59 Maarath, Beth Anoth, and Eltekon—six towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:60 The cities of the tenth district included Kiriath Baal (that is, Kiriath Jearim) and Rabbah—two towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:61 The desert cities of the eleventh district included Beth Arabah, Middin, Secacah," 
Joshua15:62 Nibshan, the City of Salt, and En Gedi—six towns and their villages." 
Joshua15:63 The people of Judah could not dislodge the Jebusites from Jerusalem, and they live among the people of Judah to this day." 
Joshua16:1 The territory assigned to Joseph’s descendants began east of the springs of Jericho near the Jordan, then turned north through the desert and into the hill country as far as Bethel." 
Joshua16:2 From Bethel (that is, Luz), it crossed over to Arkite territory at Ataroth." 
Joshua16:3 It then descended westward to the territory of the Japhletites as far as the border of Lower Beth Horon and Gezer, ending at the Mediterranean Sea." 
Joshua16:4 Ephraim and Manasseh, the descendants of Joseph, inherited this entire territory." 
Joshua16:5 The southern boundary of the territory of the tribe of Ephraim went from Ataroth Addar in the east to Upper Beth Horon 
Joshua16:6 then westward to the Sea. The northern boundary went from Michmethath to the east of Taanath-Shiloh and going further to the east of Janoah. 
Joshua16:7 From Janoah the border descended to Ataroth and Naarah. It touched Jericho and came out at the Jordan River. 
Joshua16:8 From Tappuah, it proceeded westward to the Kanah Ravine and ended at the Sea. The inheritance of the families of the tribe of Ephraim also included the towns and villages set apart for them within the territory of West Manasseh." 
Joshua16:9  
Joshua16:10 However, the Ephraimites did not drive out the Canaanites from the city of Gezer, but they conscripted the Canaanites to serve them to this day." 
Joshua17:1 Joshua assigned land to the descendants of Manasseh, Joseph’s firstborn son. Joshua allotted Gilead and Bashan to Machir the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, because he was a brave warrior." 
Joshua17:2 And Joshua assigned land west of the Jordan River to the rest of the tribe of Manasseh. The male descendants of Manasseh were Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher, and Shemida. All of these men were heads of families, and each of their families received territory west of the Jordan River." 
Joshua17:3 Manasseh’s grandson Gilead had a son named Hepher who had a son named Zelophehad, who had no sons. But he did have five daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah." 
Joshua17:4 They came before the priest Eleazar and Joshua son of Nun and the leaders, and said, “ Yahweh commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our relatives.” So according to Yahweh ’s commandment, he gave an inheritance to them as he did to their uncles." 
Joshua17:5 Since Joshua assigned land to both Manasseh’s male and female descendants, the tribe of Manasseh received ten shares of land on the west side of the Jordan River and two on the east (the territories of Gilead and Bashan)." 
Joshua17:6  
Joshua17:7 The northwest territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Michmethath, which is east of Shechem; the boundary went southward to the inhabitants of the spring of Tappuah" 
Joshua17:8 and divided the land of Tappuah belonging to the tribe of Manasseh from the town of Tappuah belonging to the Ephraimites. 
Joshua17:9 From there, the southern border followed the Kanah Stream westward to the Mediterranean Sea. The main territory of Manasseh lay north of the stream of Kanah, but south of it were some cities that belonged to the tribe of Ephraim even though they were located inside the territory of Manasseh. In the northwest, Manasseh bordered on the tribe of Asher, and in the northeast, it bordered on the tribe of Issachar." 
Joshua17:10  
Joshua17:11 Within these two territories, there were several cities together with their surrounding towns that belonged to Manasseh: Beth Shean, Ibleam, Dor, Endor, Taanach, and Megiddo. These constituted three regions." 
Joshua17:12 Yet the men of Manasseh failed to take possession of those towns, and the Canaanites continued to live in that land." 
Joshua17:13 Later, when the Israelites grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor but did not utterly drive them out." 
Joshua17:14 One day, the descendants of Joseph came to Joshua and said, “ Yahweh has blessed us with many people, but you have given us only one part of the land. We ought to have more land!”" 
Joshua17:15 Joshua said to them, “If the hill country of Ephraim is too small for the large number of people in your tribes, then go into the forests which belong to the Perizzites and the Rephaites, and clear ground for yourselves there.”" 
Joshua17:16 The descendants of Joseph answered, “Indeed, there’s not enough room for us in the hill country of Ephraim. Yet all the Canaanites who live in the plain have chariots with iron-rimmed wheels, both those in Beth Shean and its villages, and those in the Valley of Jezreel.”" 
Joshua17:17 Then Joshua said to the tribe of Ephraim and the half-tribe of Manasseh, “There are indeed many people in your tribes, and for that reason, you are very powerful. I will give you more than one share of land." 
Joshua17:18 Therefore, I will give you the hill country as well. It is a forest, but Yahweh will empower you to take possession of it and clear it from one end to the other. You will conquer all the Canaanites even though they not only have iron chariots but also are a strong people.”" 
Joshua18:1 After the Israelites had conquered the land, all of them gathered at Shiloh, and the priests set up the tabernacle." 
Joshua18:2 Joshua addressed the seven tribes that remained who had not yet received their inheritance: “How much more time will you waste until you go out and possess the land that Yahweh, the God of your ancestors, has given you?" 
Joshua18:3  
Joshua18:4 The tribes of Gad, Reuben, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have already received their allotted land east of the Jordan which Moses, Yahweh ’s servant, assigned them. The tribe of Judah already has its territory in the south, and the descendants of Joseph have their territory in the north. So let each of the seven remaining tribes select three men and send them to me. I will send them out to survey and make a map of the entire land. Divide the territory into seven districts and bring the description of each district to me. Then I will draw lots before Yahweh our God to determine which section he has chosen for each tribe to receive. But the Levites will not have an allotted portion among you, for their inheritance is to serve as Yahweh ’s priests.”" 
Joshua18:5  
Joshua18:6  
Joshua18:7  
Joshua18:8 The tribes each selected three men, and as they set out on their journey, Joshua told them, “Go through all the land and write down its description. When you bring the description back here to me, I will ask Yahweh in Shiloh to divide the land among your tribes.” So the men went through all the land and divided it into seven sections. They wrote a description of each section and also made a list of the towns within each section and returned to Joshua at Shiloh." 
Joshua18:9  
Joshua18:10 Then Joshua cast lots in Yahweh ’s presence at Shiloh and assigned a section of the land to each of the remaining tribes of Israel. 
Joshua18:11 The first lot came out for the families of Benjamin. So the first tribe that received territory was the tribe of Benjamin. Joshua assigned them land which lay between the tribe of Judah on the south and the descendants of Joseph on the north. 
Joshua18:12 Their northern border began in the east at the Jordan River and went up the slope north of Jericho and westward through the hill country as far as the desert near the city of Beth Aven. 
Joshua18:13 The border then went to the slope on the south side of Luz (that is, Bethel) then down to Ataroth Addar on the mountain south of Lower Beth Horon." 
Joshua18:14 The border then turned south from the western side of this mountain and went to the city of Kiriath Baal, which is also called Kiriath Jearim, a town of Judah." 
Joshua18:15 From the outskirts of Kiriath Jearim, the boundary extended to Mount Ephron and went from there to the fountain of the Waters of Nephtoah." 
Joshua18:16 It continued down to the foot of the mountain on the north side of the Valley of Rephaites, where the Hinnom Valley begins. From there it went south through the Hinnom Valley to the south slope of Jerusalem and then downward to En Rogel." 
Joshua18:17 From there the boundary turned sharply northward to En Shemesh and on to Geliloth, facing the ascent of Adummim, and descended to the Boulder of Bohan, son of Reuben." 
Joshua18:18 Then it passed north of the ridge overlooking the Jordan Valley. From there it descended into the valley," 
Joshua18:19 passing north of the ridge of Beth Hoglah. The southern border ended where the Jordan River empties into the Dead Sea. 
Joshua18:20 The eastern border was the Jordan River. The families of the tribe of Benjamin received as their possession the land within these borders. 
Joshua18:21 There were twelve cities, along with the towns around them, which belonged to the tribe of Benjamin: Jericho, Beth Hoglah, Emek Keziz, Beth Arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel, Avvim, Parah, Ophrah, Chephar Ammoni, Ophni, and Geba." 
Joshua18:22  
Joshua18:23  
Joshua18:24  
Joshua18:25 There were another fourteen cities, along with the towns around them, which also belonged to the tribe of Benjamin. These cities were Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth, Mizpah, Chephirah, Mozah, Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah, Zela, Haeleph, Jebus (or Jerusalem), Gibeah, and Kiriath. Joshua assigned this land and all these cities to the tribes of Benjamin." 
Joshua18:26  
Joshua18:27  
Joshua18:28  
Joshua19:1 The families of the tribe of Simeon received the second assignment of land, which was located within the territory of Judah." 
Joshua19:2 Their inheritance included the towns of Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-Shual, Balah, Ezem, Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar-Susah, Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen—thirteen towns with their villages." 
Joshua19:3  
Joshua19:4  
Joshua19:5  
Joshua19:6  
Joshua19:7 In addition, they received four other cities, along with the villages around them: Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan." 
Joshua19:8 Simeon’s territory included all the cities and villages as far south as the town of Baalath Beer, which is also known as Ramah in the Negeb." 
Joshua19:9 The families of Simeon received their inheritance from Judah’s share of land because Judah’s portion exceeded what they needed. So the inheritance of the families of Simeon was within the territory of Judah. 
Joshua19:10 The families of the tribe of Zebulun received the third assignment of land. Their boundary reached as far southeast as the city of Sarid. 
Joshua19:11 Going west, it ran to Maralah, touched Dabbesheth, and extended to the stream near Jokneam." 
Joshua19:12 In the other direction, the boundary line went east to the border of Chisloth-Tabor, and from there to Daberath and Japhia;" 
Joshua19:13 then it continued east of Gath-Hepher, Eth Kazin, Rimmon, and turned toward Neah." 
Joshua19:14 The northern boundary of Zebulun passed Hannathon and ended at the valley of Iphtah El. 
Joshua19:15 Their land encompassed twelve cities, including Kattath, Nahalal, Shimeon, Iralah, and Bethlehem." 
Joshua19:16 Zebulun’s families inherited all these towns and their villages. 
Joshua19:17 The families of the tribe of Issachar received the fourth assignment of land. 
Joshua19:18 Their inheritance included Jezreel, Kesulloth, Shunem, Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath, Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez, Remeth, En Gannim, En Haddah, and Beth Pazzez." 
Joshua19:19  
Joshua19:20  
Joshua19:21  
Joshua19:22 Their border touched Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh, and ended at the Jordan River—sixteen towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:23 Issachar’s families inherited all these cities and their towns. 
Joshua19:24 The families of the tribe of Asher received the fifth assignment of land. 
Joshua19:25 Their territory included the city of Helkath to Hali, Beten, Achshaph," 
Joshua19:26 Allammelech, Amad, and Mishal. Their border touched Carmel to the west and Shihor Libnath." 
Joshua19:27 The eastern border went north from the city of Beth Dagon. It touched the territory of the tribe of Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtah El to the north, Beth Emek and Neiel, and extended to Cabul on the north." 
Joshua19:28 It went to Abdon, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, as far as Greater Sidon." 
Joshua19:29 The boundary then turned back toward Ramah and went to the fortified city of Tyre, turned toward Hosah and came out at the sea in the region of Achzib," 
Joshua19:30 Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob—twenty-two towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:31 Asher’s families inherited this entire region. 
Joshua19:32 The families of the tribe of Naphtali received the sixth assignment of land. 
Joshua19:33 The northern border of its territory went from the town of Heleph to the oak near the town of Zaanannim, then continued to Adami Nekeb, Jabneel, and on to Lakkum, and ended at the Jordan River." 
Joshua19:34 It turned westward to Aznoth Tabor, extended from there to Hukok, touched Zebulun on the south, Asher on the west, and the Jordan on the east." 
Joshua19:35 The fortified towns of Naphtali included Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Kinnereth, Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor, Iron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth Anath, and Beth Shemesh—nineteen towns and their villages." 
Joshua19:36  
Joshua19:37  
Joshua19:38  
Joshua19:39 Naphtali’s families inherited this entire region. 
Joshua19:40 The families of the tribe of Dan received the seventh assignment of land. 
Joshua19:41 Its area included the towns of Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir Shemesh, Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah, Elon, Timnah, Ekron, Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath Rimmon, Me Jarkon, and Rakkon, as well as the territory around Joppa." 
Joshua19:42  
Joshua19:43  
Joshua19:44  
Joshua19:45  
Joshua19:46  
Joshua19:47 The Danites had difficulty taking possession of their territory, so they went up and attacked Leshem, took it, killed its inhabitants, and occupied it. Then they renamed the city after their ancestor Dan." 
Joshua19:48 Dan’s families inherited this entire region. 
Joshua19:49 All the people of Israel gathered in front of the tabernacle at Shiloh so that Eleazar the priest, Joshua, and the leaders of the tribes could divide all the land west of the Jordan River. They used lots to find out how Yahweh wanted them to divide the land. When they finished dividing the land into its regions, the Israelites gave their warrior-chief, Joshua son of Nun, his inheritance. As Yahweh had instructed, they gave him the city he requested—Timnath Serah in the Ephraimite hill country. So he built up the city and lived there." 
Joshua19:50  
Joshua19:51  
Joshua20:1 Yahweh instructed Joshua: “A person who accidentally and unintentionally kills someone will need a place of asylum—a city where he can run for safety. Otherwise, the dead man’s relatives will kill him.” So now Yahweh said to Joshua, “Tell the people of Israel to choose these cities of asylum as I instructed you through Moses." 
Joshua20:2  
Joshua20:3  
Joshua20:4 The one who has committed manslaughter shall escape for protection to one of these cities and stand at the entrance to the city gates and explain his case to the leaders of the city. The leaders must then receive him into their city and grant him asylum. 
Joshua20:5 When the one looking for revenge comes after him, the leaders of the city must protect him and not hand him over, for he killed the person accidentally and without premeditation." 
Joshua20:6 He must remain in the city until he has had a public trial; then he must remain protected in the city until the man who is high priest at that time has died. Afterward, he may return to his family and his own hometown.”" 
Joshua20:7 So they dedicated three cities on the west side of the Jordan River: Kedesh in Galilee in the hill country of Naphtali, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron) in the hill country of Judah." 
Joshua20:8 And beyond the Jordan east of Jericho, they dedicated Bezer in the desert plain belonging to the tribe of Reuben, Ramoth in Gilead, from the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan, from the tribe of Manasseh." 
Joshua20:9 These were the designated cities of refuge. Any Israelite or any foreigner living among them who had accidentally killed someone could run to one of these cities for protection. He could live there safely until he had a fair trial, and unless he had been proven guilty, he could not be killed by the one seeking revenge." 
Joshua21:1 While the people of Israel camped at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, the ancestral heads of the Levites went to Eleazar the priest, to Joshua son of Nun, and to the heads of the families of all of the tribes of Israel and said, “ Yahweh instructed through Moses for you to give us cities to live in and pasturelands around the cities for our livestock.”" 
Joshua21:2  
Joshua21:3 So the people of Israel obeyed Yahweh ’s command and gave the Levites some of their cities and pasturelands from their inheritance. 
Joshua21:4 Each clan of the Levites received its cities by drawing lots. First, the people of Israel gave to the descendants of Aaron the priest from the clan of Kohath thirteen cities from the territories of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. They allotted to the rest of the clan of Kohath’s descendants ten towns from the clans of the tribes of Ephraim, Dan, and half of Manasseh." 
Joshua21:5  
Joshua21:6 By lot, the descendants of Gershon received thirteen cities from the tribe of Issachar, from the tribe of Asher, from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan." 
Joshua21:7 Clan by clan, the descendants of Merari received twelve cities from the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zebulun." 
Joshua21:8 Yahweh had commanded through Moses to draw lots to see what cities the Levites would receive. So they drew lots, and the people of Israel gave them these cities together with the pasturelands around them." 
Joshua21:9 The members of the clan of Kohath, the descendants of Aaron, received nine cities from the tribes of Judah and Simeon." 
Joshua21:10  
Joshua21:11 They received the city of Hebron, which was also a city of asylum. It lay in the hill country of Judah and was named Kiriath Arba, after Arba the father of Anak. The fields and towns around it had already been given to Caleb, but the city and its pasturelands were now given to the descendants of Aaron. They also received the cities and pasturelands of Libnah, Jattir, Eshtemoa, Holon, Debir, Ain, Juttah, and Beth Shemesh; nine cities from these two tribes." 
Joshua21:12  
Joshua21:13  
Joshua21:14  
Joshua21:15  
Joshua21:16  
Joshua21:17 They received four cities from the territory of Benjamin: Gibeon, Geba, Anathoth, and Almon, along with the pastureland of each." 
Joshua21:18  
Joshua21:19 The priests, the descendants of Aaron, received thirteen cities in all, with their pasturelands." 
Joshua21:20 The rest of the Kohathite clans of Levi received four cities with their pasturelands in the territory of Ephraim. One of these cities was Shechem, located in the hill country and one of the cities of asylum. The other three cities were Gezer, Kibzaim, and Beth Horon." 
Joshua21:21  
Joshua21:22  
Joshua21:23 The Levites also received four cities from the territory of Dan: Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon, along with the pastureland of each." 
Joshua21:24  
Joshua21:25 They also received two cities from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Taanach and Gath Rimmon, along with the pastureland of each." 
Joshua21:26 The rest of the Kohathite clans received ten towns and their pasturelands. 
Joshua21:27 The Levite clans of the Gershonites received two towns from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan (a city of asylum for one who committed manslaughter) and Beeshterah, together with their pasturelands." 
Joshua21:28 They received four towns from the tribe of Issachar: Kishion, Daberath, Jarmuth, and En Gannim, together with their pasturelands." 
Joshua21:29  
Joshua21:30 They received four towns from the tribe of Asher: Mishal, Abdon, Helkath, and Rehob, together with their pasturelands." 
Joshua21:31  
Joshua21:32 They received three towns from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee (a city of asylum for one who committed manslaughter), Hammoth Dor, and Kartan, together with their pasturelands." 
Joshua21:33 All the Gershonite clans received thirteen towns, together with their pasturelands." 
Joshua21:34 The remaining Levites of the Merarite clans received four cities from the tribe of Zebulun: Jokneam, Kartah, Dimnah, and Nahalal, along with the pastureland of each." 
Joshua21:35  
Joshua21:36 They received four cities from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer, Jahaz, Kedemoth, and Mephaath, along with the pastureland of each." 
Joshua21:37  
Joshua21:38 They received four cities from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead (a city of asylum for one who committed manslaughter), Mahanaim, Heshbon, and Jazer, along with the pastureland of each." 
Joshua21:39  
Joshua21:40 Merarite clans of the remaining Levites received twelve cities in all. 
Joshua21:41 The Levites received from the other tribes of Israel a total of forty-eight cities, each with the pasturelands around them." 
Joshua21:42  
Joshua21:43 So Yahweh gave Israel all the land he had promised their ancestors. They took possession of the land and settled there. 
Joshua21:44 Yahweh kept his promise and gave them peace in the land just as he had promised to their forefathers. Not one of their enemies could stand against them. 
Joshua21:45 Yahweh didn’t break a single promise that he made to the people of Israel. He faithfully kept every promise he made to them. 
Joshua22:1 Then Joshua summoned all the men of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh" 
Joshua22:2 and said to them, “You have done all that Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded, and you have obeyed me in everything I commanded." 
Joshua22:3 Through it all, you’ve never deserted your fellow Israelites and were always there to help them. You’ve completed every task given to you by Yahweh your God." 
Joshua22:4 Yes, he has promised peace to your fellow Israelites, and he has kept that promise. So now, return to the homeland east of the Jordan which Moses, Yahweh ’s servant, assigned to you." 
Joshua22:5 Make sure you obey every command and instruction Moses, Yahweh ’s servant, gave you. Love Yahweh! He is your God, so walk in his ways and obey his commands! Cling to him and serve him diligently with all your heart and with all your soul!”" 
Joshua22:6 Then Joshua spoke a blessing over them and sent them on their way, and they settled there." 
Joshua22:7 To one half of the tribe of Manasseh, Moses had assigned land in Bashan. To the other half, Joshua assigned land on the west side of the Jordan with their fellow Israelites. Joshua blessed them and sent them off to their homes" 
Joshua22:8 with these words: “You are free to go. You leave for your homes rich—with great herds of cattle, silver and gold, bronze and iron, and a great quantity of clothing! Share with your friends and families everything you took from your enemies.”" 
Joshua22:9 So the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh left their fellow Israelites at Shiloh in Canaan and returned to Gilead, their homeland. For Moses had told them before he died, “ Yahweh wants you to take this land for your own.”" 
Joshua22:10 On their way home, the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh came to the town of Geliloth near the Jordan River. So they built their own large, impressive altar there." 
Joshua22:11 When the rest of the Israelites heard that the people of the tribe of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh had built an altar at Geliloth at the entrance to the land of Canaan," 
Joshua22:12 they gathered at Shiloh to go to war against them. 
Joshua22:13 The Israelites of the ten western tribes sent a delegation to the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh in the land of Gilead. They sent Phineas son of Eleazar the priest, together with ten respected clan leaders, princes from each of their ten tribes." 
Joshua22:14  
Joshua22:15 So they came to the people in the land of Gilead, to the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh. Phineas and the men with him said," 
Joshua22:16 “We speak to you on behalf of all Yahweh ’s people. Why did you rebel against Yahweh and build this altar for yourselves? Why did you quit following the God of Israel and do such an evil thing? 
Joshua22:17 Haven’t we had enough trouble from the terrible sin we committed at Peor? There a plague came upon us even though we belong to Yahweh. To this day, our conscience is stained and we still suffer from our atrocious deeds." 
Joshua22:18 How dare you turn back from following Yahweh! If you rebel against him today, he will be angry with everyone in Israel tomorrow." 
Joshua22:19 If you think your land is defiled, then come back to Yahweh ’s land, where his tabernacle stands at Shiloh. But don’t rebel against Yahweh or us by building for yourself an altar." 
Joshua22:20 Don’t forget what happened to Achan! Yahweh told us, ‘Destroy everything in the city of Jericho.’ But Achan son of Zerah did not obey Yahweh ’s command regarding the devoted things, and so Yahweh punished us all. Achan died because of what he did, and so did many other Israelites because of Achan’s sin.”" 
Joshua22:21 The Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh answered the princes of the tribes of Israel:" 
Joshua22:22 “ Yahweh is the God of all gods! Yahweh is the God of all gods! We appeal to God Almighty as our witness. He knows why we did this, and we want you to know too! If we rebelled or betrayed Yahweh, then you may take our lives today." 
Joshua22:23 But we built this altar with no intention of burning any kind of sacrifices on it. If we built this altar in rebellion against Yahweh or to break our covenant with him, then may Yahweh himself punish us." 
Joshua22:24 No! We love Yahweh! We were afraid that in the future your descendants will say to our descendants, ‘ Who are you? What right do you have to worship Yahweh, the God of Israel? He has placed the Jordan River as a barrier between our people and your people. You Reubenites and Gadites have no part in the worship of Yahweh.’ And your descendants may prevent ours from worshiping him." 
Joshua22:25  
Joshua22:26 We did build an altar, but not for burning sacrifices or making offerings." 
Joshua22:27 We built this altar to show to our people and to your people and to the generations to come that we will worship Yahweh at his tabernacle. We will bring all our offerings into Yahweh ’s presence there so that your children may never say to our children in the future, ‘You have no part in the worship of Yahweh.’" 
Joshua22:28 We have decided among us that if that day should ever come, our descendants would reply: ‘See the replica of the altar of Yahweh, which our fathers made here at the border between us —not for burnt offerings or sacrifices, but as a witness that we both serve the same God.’" 
Joshua22:29 Far be it from us to rebel against Yahweh or to turn away from following him this day by building an altar on which to present offerings or make sacrifices to Yahweh our God. We would never build an altar to take the place of the altar which stands before his tabernacle, the place of his presence.”" 
Joshua22:30 When Phineas the priest, and the princes of the tribes heard the explanation of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and East Manasseh, they were satisfied." 
Joshua22:31 Phineas son of Eleazar the priest said to them, “Now we know that Yahweh is among us! Since you have not rebelled against him, you have indeed saved the Israelites from Yahweh ’s punishment.”" 
Joshua22:32 Then Phineas and the ten princes of the western tribes returned to the land of Canaan and told the people of Israel everything that happened. 
Joshua22:33 The outcome pleased the Israelites and they praised God. They spoke no more of going to war against the eastern tribes to destroy the land where they had lived. 
Joshua22:34 The Reubenites and the Gadites called the altar Witness, for they said, “The altar stands as a witness to us all that Yahweh is God.”" 
Joshua23:1 Many years had passed since Yahweh had given Israel rest from all their enemies, and Joshua was very old." 
Joshua23:2 So Joshua called together all the Israelites, including all their leaders—elders, judges, and officials—and told them, “I’m now very old and don’t have much longer to live." 
Joshua23:3 Yahweh your God has shown you his power and fought against your enemies for you. You have seen all the wonders that he has done to all these nations because he loves you. 
Joshua23:4 See, I have assigned to your tribes all the land from the Jordan River in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. I have given you the land of all the nations that we’ve already conquered as an inheritance, and also the land of those nations that we’ve yet to conquer." 
Joshua23:5 Yahweh your God will absolutely keep his promises to you. He will drive out all your enemies and make them retreat before you so that you will possess their land. 
Joshua23:6 So be very strong and steadfast; be careful to obey fully what is written in the Scroll of the teaching of Moses, without deviating from it." 
Joshua23:7 Do not intermingle with the nations that are left among you nor speak the names of their gods when you take an oath. And by all means don’t worship or pray to them. 
Joshua23:8 As you have done until now, cling tightly to Yahweh, for he is your God." 
Joshua23:9 Yahweh has driven out great and powerful nations before you! No one was able to withstand you," 
Joshua23:10 for Yahweh your God fights for you as he promised he would! That is why just one of you causes a thousand of our enemies to run away. 
Joshua23:11 Above all else, keep watch over your hearts, so as to always love Yahweh your God." 
Joshua23:12 “But if you ever turn away and make alliances with the nations that remain in your midst, and establish friendly relations with them and intermarry," 
Joshua23:13 then you may be sure that Yahweh your God will no longer drive them out before you. Instead they will become a snare and a trap for you! They will be like whips on your backsides and thorns in your eyes until you perish from the good land that Yahweh your God has given you. 
Joshua23:14 “Now I am about to go the way of all humanity. You know with all your heart and soul that not one promise of Yahweh your God has failed. Without a doubt, every promise he made to us he has kept; he has fulfilled them all." 
Joshua23:15 Just as he has kept every wonderful promise he ever made to you, so Yahweh your God will carry out every threat and will obliterate you completely from this good land which he has given you." 
Joshua23:16 If you break the covenant our God, Yahweh, made with you and worship other gods and bow down to them, his anger will blaze against you. He will punish you, and he will remove you from the face of this good land he has given you.”" 
Joshua24:1 Joshua assembled all Israel’s tribes at Shechem. He summoned all the leaders—elders, judges, and officials of Israel—and they all stood in the presence of God." 
Joshua24:2 Then Joshua said to them all: “This is what Yahweh the God of Israel has to say to you: ‘Long ago, your forefathers—Terah, father of Abraham and father of Nahor—lived beyond the Euphrates and worshiped other gods." 
Joshua24:3 I took your father Abraham from that land and led him through all the land of Canaan. I gave him a son, Isaac, and through Isaac I multiplied his descendants." 
Joshua24:4 I gave Isaac two sons, Jacob and Esau. To Esau and his descendants I gave the hill country of Edom as their inheritance, while Jacob and his family went down to Egypt." 
Joshua24:5 When the time of their captivity was complete, I sent Moses and Aaron to Egypt to deliver them. I struck the land with great plagues, and afterward I led you out from there." 
Joshua24:6 I freed your forefathers from Egypt and brought you to the Red Sea, but the Egyptians pursued them with chariots and horsemen." 
Joshua24:7 Then our people cried out to Yahweh for help, and he put a thick, dark cloud between you and the Egyptians. When the Egyptians attempted to follow them, I caused the sea to roll over them and drown them. You saw with your own eyes what I did to the Egyptians. Then you lived in the desert for many years." 
Joshua24:8 I brought you to the land of the Amorites, who lived east of the Jordan. When they fought against you, I gave them into your hands. As you advanced, I gave you victory over them, and you took possession of their land." 
Joshua24:9 ‘Later, when Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab, opposed Israel, he sent for the prophet Balaam son of Beor to come and curse you." 
Joshua24:10 But I refused to listen to Balaam. Instead he had to prophesy my blessings over you! I rescued you from his power. 
Joshua24:11 ‘Later, after you crossed the Jordan miraculously, you faced another impossibility —Jericho! The lords of Jericho, as well as the Amorites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hittites, Girgashites, Hivites, and Jebusites, fought with you, but I gave you victory over them all!" 
Joshua24:12 I sent the hornet ahead of you to run off the two Amorite kings. Your weapons and strength had nothing to do with it! 
Joshua24:13 I gave you land on which you had not labored and cities that you had not built. You are now living in the land I gave you. You are eating grapes from vines that others planted and olives from trees planted by the people who lived there before you.’ 
Joshua24:14 “Now therefore, worship Yahweh with holy awe and serve him in authentic love and loyalty. Remove from your hearts every false god to whom your fathers bowed down beyond the Euphrates and in Egypt and serve Yahweh." 
Joshua24:15 If it seems wrong in your eyes to serve Yahweh, then make your decision today which gods you will worship—the gods which your ancestors worshiped in Mesopotamia or the gods which the Amorites worship in the land where you are now living—but I and my family, we will give our lives to worship and serve Yahweh!”" 
Joshua24:16 The people responded enthusiastically: “Far be it from us to abandon Yahweh and serve other gods! 
Joshua24:17 Our God, Yahweh, set us and our fathers free from slavery in the land of Egypt, the house of bondage. He performed these many great signs and wonders before our eyes. Yahweh supernaturally protected us throughout our entire journey as we passed through the territory of other nations." 
Joshua24:18 And as we advanced, Yahweh powerfully drove out from before us all the people, including the Amorites who inhabited the country. Yes, Joshua! We, too, will worship and serve Yahweh, for he alone is our God.”" 
Joshua24:19 Joshua warned the people, “Don’t be so quick to say, ‘We will worship and serve Yahweh,’ for he is a holy God. And he will tolerate no rivals. God will not forgive the sin of unfaithfulness to him." 
Joshua24:20 If after Yahweh has been gracious to you, you turn and forsake him to worship other gods, then he will turn and deal harshly with you and totally consume you!”" 
Joshua24:21 “No, no!” the people responded. “We promise to worship and serve Yahweh!”" 
Joshua24:22 Then Joshua said to them, “You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen to serve Yahweh.” “Yes, we are witnesses,” they responded." 
Joshua24:23 “Now then,” said Joshua, “throw away these foreign gods that are among you, and yield your hearts fully to Yahweh the God of Israel!”" 
Joshua24:24 And the people promised Joshua, “We really will worship and serve our God, Yahweh, and listen to his voice.”" 
Joshua24:25 On that day when the people were gathered at Shechem, Joshua made a covenant between them and Yahweh, which contained laws the people were to obey." 
Joshua24:26 Joshua recorded all this in a book of divine instruction. Then he set up a large stone memorial at the tent pole near the holy place of Yahweh. 
Joshua24:27 Joshua said to all the people, “Look at this stone! It will serve as a witness, for it heard all the words that Yahweh spoke to us; it will be a witness against you if you rebel against our God.”" 
Joshua24:28 Joshua then dismissed the people, each to their own inheritance." 
Joshua24:29 Some time later, Joshua son of Nun, the servant of Yahweh, died at the age of one hundred and ten." 
Joshua24:30 They buried him on his own property, at Timnath Serah in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash." 
Joshua24:31 Israel was faithful to serve Yahweh during the lifetime of Joshua and the lifetime of the elders who lived on after Joshua, those who had experienced all the miracles that Yahweh had done for Israel." 
Joshua24:32 They buried Joseph’s bones, which the Israelites had brought up from Egypt, at Shechem, in the tract of land that Jacob bought for a hundred pieces of silver from the children of Hamor, Shechem’s father. So the land became the inheritance of Joseph’s descendants." 
Joshua24:33 The chief priest Eleazar son of Aaron also died. They buried him on the hill of his son Phineas, which had been assigned to him in Ephraim." 
Judges1:1 And after Joshua died, the twelve tribal leaders consulted Yahweh for a prophetic sign and asked, “Which tribe do you choose to be the first to lead the attack against the Canaanites?”" 
Judges1:1 And after Joshua died, the twelve tribal leaders consulted Yahweh for a prophetic sign and asked, “Which tribe do you choose to be the first to lead the attack against the Canaanites?”" 
Judges1:2 Yahweh answered them, “Let Judah take the lead." 
Judges1:3 I have delivered the land into their hands.” Judah then enlisted support from their brother-tribe Simeon, saying, “Follow us into our territory and fight with us against the Canaanites; then we will do the same for you.” So the Simeonites agreed and joined them." 
Judges1:4 When Judah advanced, Yahweh gave them victory over the Canaanites and Perizzites, and they defeated ten thousand men at Bezek." 
Judges1:5 They encountered King Adoni-Bezek fleeing with his army on the battlefield. They pursued him, captured him, and defeated the Canaanites and Perizzites. Then they cut off Adoni-Bezek’s thumbs and big toes." 
Judges1:6  
Judges1:7 Adoni-Bezek confessed, “I once had seventy kings picking up scraps under my table with their thumbs and big toes cut off. Now God has paid me back for what I did to them!” They took him captive to Jerusalem, where he died." 
Judges1:8 The men of Judah attacked Jerusalem and captured it. They killed the inhabitants of the city and set it on fire. 
Judges1:9 Afterward, the men of Judah continued their advance and attacked the Canaanites living in the hill country, the southern desert region, and the western lowlands." 
Judges1:10 Under Caleb’s leadership, they fought against the Canaanites living in Hebron, formerly known as Kiriath Arba, and killed the three Canaanite families descended from Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai." 
Judges1:11 From there, they attacked the city of Debir, formerly known as Kiriath Sepher." 
Judges1:12 Caleb announced, “I will give my daughter Achsah in marriage to the man who attacks and captures Kiriath Sepher.”" 
Judges1:13 Caleb’s nephew Othniel the Kenizzite captured Kiriath Sepher; and Caleb gave him his daughter Achsah in marriage. 
Judges1:14 One day, Othniel nagged her to ask her father for a field as a wedding gift, so she went to him. When she got down from her donkey, Caleb said to her, “What can I do for you?”" 
Judges1:15 “Please, give me a blessing,” she replied. “I know you’ve already given me some arid desert land, but please give me a field with springs of water.” So Caleb blessed her with a field that had both upper and lower springs." 
Judges1:16 The descendants of Moses’ father-in-law, the Kenite, joined the people of Judah, and went with them from Jericho, the City of Date Palms, to the Judean wilderness. The Kenites had settled there among the Amalekites at Arad." 
Judges1:17 Judah and their brother-tribe Simeon advanced to the city of Zephath and wiped out the Canaanites living there. That’s why they now call the city Hormah. 
Judges1:18 The men of Judah captured Gaza, Ashkelon, Ekron, and the territories surrounding each of these cities." 
Judges1:19 Yahweh ’s presence and power were with the men of Judah and they were able to conquer the hill country, but because the people of the lowlands had war chariots, they failed to drive them out." 
Judges1:20 Because Caleb conquered the three giants, the sons of Anak, he was given the city of Hebron." 
Judges1:21 The tribe of Benjamin, however, failed to conquer the Jebusites living in Jerusalem. So to this day, the Jebusites live among the Benjamites in Jerusalem." 
Judges1:22 Yahweh ’s presence and power were with Joseph’s descendants, so they advanced toward Bethel and sent men ahead to spy out the city that was formerly known as Luz." 
Judges1:23  
Judges1:24 The spies confronted a man coming out of Bethel and they said to him, “Show us the way to enter the city and we will treat you well.”" 
Judges1:25 So he showed the spies a secret entrance into the city, and they killed everyone living in Bethel with the sword except that man and his family." 
Judges1:26 Later the man and his family moved to the land of the Hittites and built a town. The new town has kept the name Luz to this day. 
Judges1:27 The Canaanites were determined to stay in their land, so the men of Manasseh did not conquer the cities of Beth Shean, Taanach, Dor, Ibleam, Megiddo, and their surrounding villages." 
Judges1:28 And whenever Israel gained the upper hand, they subjected the Canaanites to forced labor; but they did not completely drive them out." 
Judges1:29 The tribe of Ephraim failed to drive out the Canaanites living in Gezer, so the Canaanites continue to live there among them." 
Judges1:30 The tribe of Zebulun failed to drive out the Canaanites living in Kitron or Nahalol, so the Canaanites continue to live there among them." 
Judges1:31 The tribe of Asher failed to drive out the Canaanites living in Acco, Sidon, Ahlab, Achzib, Helbah, Aphik, and Rehob," 
Judges1:32 so the people of Asher live among the Canaanites residing in the land because they did not conquer them. 
Judges1:33 Likewise, the tribe of Naphtali failed to drive out the Canaanites living in Beth Shemesh or Beth Anath, so they live among the Canaanites residing in the land. However, they forced the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh and Beth Anath to serve them." 
Judges1:34 The tribe of Dan was least successful. The Amorites forced them back into the hills and they could no longer live in the valley. 
Judges1:35 The Amorites persisted in living on Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. But when the descendants of Joseph grew stronger, they overpowered the Amorites and ruled over them." 
Judges1:36 The boundary of the Amorites ran from Scorpion Pass to Sela and continued northward from there. 
Judges2:1 The Angel of Yahweh went up from Gilgal to Bokim and said to the people: “I rescued you from Egypt and brought you into the land I had promised to your ancestors. I said, ‘I will never, never break my covenant with you," 
Judges2:2 and you are never, never to make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land. You must tear down their altars to their false gods!’ But you have not listened to my voice. See what you have done!" 
Judges2:3 Therefore listen to what I’m telling you—I won’t drive them out before you. Instead, they will be thorns in your sides, and their gods will become a trap for you!”" 
Judges2:4 After the Angel of Yahweh had delivered his message to all the Israelites, the people burst out with loud, bitter weeping." 
Judges2:5 So they named that place Bokim, and in that place of tears they offered sacrifices to Yahweh." 
Judges2:6 Then Joshua released the people to go take possession of their territorial inheritance. 
Judges2:6 Then Joshua released the people to go take possession of their territorial inheritance. 
Judges2:7 The people faithfully worshiped Yahweh all the days of Joshua and through all the days of the elders who outlived him. They had all experienced the many astounding miracles Yahweh had done for Israel. 
Judges2:7 The people faithfully worshiped Yahweh all the days of Joshua and through all the days of the elders who outlived him. They had all experienced the many astounding miracles Yahweh had done for Israel. 
Judges2:8 Yahweh ’s servant, Joshua son of Nun, died at the age of one hundred and ten" 
Judges2:8 Yahweh ’s servant, Joshua son of Nun, died at the age of one hundred and ten" 
Judges2:9 and the people buried him on his own parcel of land in the hill country of Ephraim at Timnath Serah, north of Mount Gaash." 
Judges2:10 Eventually, after that entire generation died and was buried, the next generation forgot Yahweh and all that he had done for Israel." 
Judges2:11 The Israelites did what was evil in the sight of Yahweh and worshiped the images of Baal. 
Judges2:12 Israel deserted Yahweh, the God of their ancestors, who had rescued them from Egypt. They found new gods to worship—the gods of the people around them. They bowed down to them and provoked Yahweh to anger." 
Judges2:13 They completely abandoned Yahweh to serve Baal and the images of the goddess Astarte. 
Judges2:14 They caused the anger of Yahweh to be kindled against Israel, and he handed them over to invaders, who plundered them. He surrendered them to their enemies on all sides, and they could no longer defend themselves." 
Judges2:15 Every time they went into battle, Yahweh raised his hand against them to their undoing, just as he had warned them, and they were in great distress." 
Judges2:16 Nevertheless, Yahweh raised up deliverers from among them who rescued them from the marauding bands." 
Judges2:17 Rather than listen to their deliverers, they prostituted themselves to other gods and bowed down to worship them. This new generation quickly turned from the good path and refused to be like their ancestors who actually listened to Yahweh ’s commands." 
Judges2:18 Yet, whenever Yahweh raised up a hero for them, his presence and power were with that leader, and he would rescue the people from their enemies as long as that deliverer lived. Yahweh had mercy and pitied them because of their cries of distress and groanings under the grip of their oppressors." 
Judges2:19 But when their champion died, then the people would relapse into their former idolatry. They would worship other gods, bow down to them, and refuse to give up their evil ways. And each generation behaved worse than the one before it." 
Judges2:20 Then Yahweh became furious with Israel, saying, “Because this nation has violated the covenant that I commanded their fathers to keep, and because they no longer listen to my voice," 
Judges2:21 I will no longer drive out any of the nations that remained in the land after Joshua died.” 
Judges2:21 I will no longer drive out any of the nations that remained in the land after Joshua died.” 
Judges2:22 Over and over Yahweh tested Israel to see if they would faithfully walk in his ways, as their ancestors had done." 
Judges2:23 So Yahweh intentionally left pagan nations in the land instead of driving them all out at once, and he did not give Joshua the victory over them, nor did he drive them out after Joshua’s death." 
Judges2:23 So Yahweh intentionally left pagan nations in the land instead of driving them all out at once, and he did not give Joshua the victory over them, nor did he drive them out after Joshua’s death." 
Judges3:1 Here is a list of the nations that Yahweh permitted to remain in the land so he could use them to test the Israelites who had not known what it was like during the Canaanite wars. 
Judges3:2 He wanted the succeeding generations of Israel, who had not known war before, to learn the art of warfare." 
Judges3:3 So he left in the land the five Philistine principalities and all the Canaanites, Sidonians, and Hivites who lived on Mount Lebanon from Mount Baal Hermon as far as Lebo Hamath." 
Judges3:4 They remained in the land to test Israel to see if they would obey Yahweh ’s commands that Moses had given to their ancestors. 
Judges3:5 So the Israelites settled among the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites." 
Judges3:6 They took their daughters in marriage and gave their own daughters to their sons; and the Israelites served their false gods. 
Judges3:7 The Israelites did what was evil in Yahweh ’s sight. They ignored Yahweh their God, and they served the Baal gods and the Asherah goddesses." 
Judges3:8 Therefore Yahweh ’s blazing anger rose up against them. He surrendered them to Cushan-Rishathaim, the king of Mesopotamia. He kept the Israelites in bondage to him for eight years." 
Judges3:9 Then the Israelites, with shattered hearts, cried out to Yahweh for mercy, and he answered them by raising up a champion-deliverer to rescue them, Othniel. He was Caleb’s nephew, the son of his younger brother Kenaz." 
Judges3:10 And the Spirit of Yahweh was upon him and empowered him to liberate Israel from bondage. He became Israel’s champion and went out to war, and Yahweh delivered into his hands Cushan-Rishathaim, the king of Mesopotamia. Othniel overpowered him," 
Judges3:11 and after the land had peace for forty years, Othniel the son of Kenaz died." 
Judges3:12 The Israelites again did what was evil in Yahweh ’s sight, and because they did what was offensive to Yahweh, he gave King Eglon of Moab power over Israel." 
Judges3:13 Eglon formed an alliance with the Ammonites and Amalekites, and they attacked and defeated Israel. Eglon captured Jericho, the City of Date Palms." 
Judges3:14 King Eglon of Moab kept the Israelites in bondage to him for eighteen years. 
Judges3:15 Then the Israelites, with shattered hearts, cried out to Yahweh for mercy, and Yahweh raised up a champion-deliverer to rescue them—Ehud, who was left-handed. He was the son of Gera from the tribe of Benjamin. One day, the Israelites sent him to present tribute to King Eglon of Moab." 
Judges3:16 Ehud had made for himself a two-edged sword over a foot long, which he strapped under his coat to his right thigh." 
Judges3:17 He and his entourage came before King Eglon, who was a very fat man, to present the tribute." 
Judges3:18 After the formal presentation of the tribute, he told the men who accompanied him to go back home." 
Judges3:19 Ehud went with them part of the way, but he turned back at the carved stones near Gilgal. He returned to Eglon and said, “Your Majesty, I have a secret message for you.” The king said to his attendants, “Leave us!” After all the king’s servants had left," 
Judges3:20 Ehud approached King Eglon while he was sitting alone in his cool upper room and said to him, “I have a message from God for you.” As the king rose from his throne," 
Judges3:21 Ehud reached beneath his robe with his left hand for the sword strapped to his right thigh, and he plunged it deep into Eglon’s belly!" 
Judges3:22 And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade. Ehud was unable to pull out the sword, and the dung came out." 
Judges3:23 Stepping out of the king’s upper room into the portico, Ehud shut and locked the doors behind him." 
Judges3:24 After he had slipped away, the king’s servants came to the doors of the upper room and discovered they were locked. So they told themselves, “He must be on the toilet.”" 
Judges3:25 They waited and waited, but still the king did not emerge. Embarrassed, they finally took their key and unlocked the doors. And when they opened the doors, there was their master sprawled out on the floor, dead!" 
Judges3:26 But Ehud had escaped while they stood there wondering what to do. He fled beyond the carved stones and made it to Seirah. 
Judges3:27 When he arrived back in the land, he sounded the war trumpet with a loud blast and rallied the people in the hill country of Ephraim. The Israelites went down from the hills to fight against the Moabites with Ehud leading the charge." 
Judges3:28 “Follow me closely,” he said, “and pursue them, for Yahweh has delivered your enemies, the Moabites, into your hands!” So they followed his lead and secured the fords of the Jordan opposite the land of Moab and did not let anyone cross." 
Judges3:29 In the battle that ensued, they killed nearly ten thousand able-bodied men—brave warriors of Moab, and not one escaped." 
Judges3:30 On that day, Moab surrendered to Israel, and the land had peace for eighty years." 
Judges3:31 After Ehud, God raised up Shamgar son of Anath, who killed six hundred Philistines with nothing but an ox-goad, and Shamgar the deliverer rescued Israel." 
Judges4:1 After Ehud died, the Israelites returned to doing evil before the eyes of Yahweh," 
Judges4:2 so he surrendered them to King Jabin of Canaan, who ruled from Hazor. His army commander Sisera established his base in Harosheth of the Gentiles." 
Judges4:3 Jabin had nine hundred chariots with iron-rimmed wheels, and he ruthlessly oppressed Israel for twenty years. Then the Israelites, with shattered hearts, cried out to Yahweh for help." 
Judges4:4 God raised up Deborah to lead Israel as a champion-deliverer. She was a prophetess and a fiery woman. 
Judges4:5 She presided as Israel’s judge under the Palm of Deborah, a certain palm tree between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim, and the people of Israel came to her for wise decisions." 
Judges4:6 One day she sent for Barak son of Abinoam from the city of Kedesh in Naphtali and said to him, “ Yahweh, the God of Israel, commands you: ‘Go, deploy ten thousand men from the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun, and march to Mount Tabor." 
Judges4:7 I will draw Sisera, the commander of Jabin’s army, to fight against you at the Kishon River. He will have his many chariots and soldiers, but I will give you victory over him.’ ”" 
Judges4:8 Barak replied, “I will go if you go with me, but if you don’t go with me, I won’t go either.”" 
Judges4:9 “Very well,” she answered. “I will go with you, but you will receive no glory in the victory because Yahweh will hand over Sisera to a woman.” So Deborah set off for Kedesh with Barak." 
Judges4:10 Barak summoned the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and ten thousand warriors followed him and Deborah also." 
Judges4:11 Now Heber the Kenite migrated away from the other Kenites (the descendants of Hobab, Moses’ father-in-law) and was living close to Kedesh near the oak tree at Zaanannim." 
Judges4:12 When Sisera found out that Barak son of Abinoam was marching toward Mount Tabor," 
Judges4:13 he gathered together his nine hundred iron-rimmed chariots and all his soldiers and sent them from Harosheth of the Gentiles to the Kishon River. 
Judges4:14 Then Deborah prophesied to Barak, “Today, Yahweh has given you victory over Sisera! Go! Yahweh is marching out before you!” Immediately, Barak charged down from Mount Tabor with his ten thousand warriors." 
Judges4:15 And Yahweh threw Sisera and his army into confusion before the onslaught of Barak and his men. Sisera and all his chariots and men were overwhelmed. He leaped from his chariot and fled on foot. 
Judges4:16 Barak pursued the other chariots and the army to Harosheth of the Gentiles until Sisera’s whole army was killed by the sword, and only Sisera survived." 
Judges4:17 He ran for his life to the tent of Jael wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was friendship between King Jabin of Hazor and the family of Heber the Kenite." 
Judges4:18 Jael came out of her tent to greet Sisera and said to him, “Come in, my lord, come in here. You have nothing to fear.” As soon as he entered her tent, she hid him under a blanket." 
Judges4:19 Sisera said to her, “I’m so thirsty. Please let me have some water.” So she opened a skin of milk, gave him some to drink, and covered him again." 
Judges4:20 He said to her, “Stand at the entrance of your tent. If anybody comes and asks you if there is anybody here, tell them, ‘No.’ ”" 
Judges4:21 Exhausted, he fell fast asleep under the blanket. While he slept, Jael wife of Heber took a tent peg in one hand and a hammer in the other and tiptoed over to where he was lying. And with a crushing blow, she drove the tent peg through his temple until it went down into the ground—he was dead!" 
Judges4:22 Just then, Barak arrived in pursuit of Sisera. Jael went out of her tent to greet him and said, “Come, let me show you the man you’re looking for.” He went inside with her, and there was Sisera lying dead with the tent peg through his temple." 
Judges4:23 On that day God humiliated King Jabin of Canaan before the Israelites. 
Judges4:24 The hand of the Israelites pressed harder and harder against King Jabin of Canaan until there was nothing left of him but a memory! 
Judges5:1 Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang this victory song: 
Judges5:2 Blessings be to Yahweh, who gave us victory today! For the people answered the call, and Israel threw off what once held us back." 
Judges5:3 Listen, you kings! Open your ears, you princes! For I will sing a song to Yahweh. I will make music to Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Judges5:4 Yahweh, when you advanced from Seir, and when you marched from Edom’s plains, the earth trembled, the sky poured, the clouds burst," 
Judges5:5 and the mountains melted, in the presence of Yahweh, the Glorious One of Sinai, in the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel!" 
Judges5:6 In the days of Shamgar son of Anath, and in the days of Jael, no one felt safe; the roads were deserted, and those who dared to travel took back roads." 
Judges5:7 Champions were hard to find — hard to find in Israel, until I, Deborah, took a stand! I arose as a mother in Israel!" 
Judges5:8 The Israelites chose new gods, which brought war into the land. Of forty thousand men in Israel, not a shield or spear was seen." 
Judges5:9 My heart is with Israel’s princes, with the people who gladly volunteered. Praise Yahweh!" 
Judges5:10 Declare it, you rich who ride on your white donkeys, sitting on your fancy saddles! Declare it, you poor who must walk wherever you go!" 
Judges5:11 Listen to the sound of singers at the well, as they proclaim the victories of Yahweh, the righteous triumph of his villagers in Israel! Then the people of Yahweh marched out from their city gates!" 
Judges5:12 Lead on, O Deborah, lead on! Awake, awake! Break out in a song! Arise, O Barak, arise! Son of Abinoam, arise! Carry off your captives and lead them all away!" 
Judges5:13 The remaining nobles marched out, Yahweh ’s people came to me to fight against the mighty ones." 
Judges5:14 You men of Ephraim came out to the valley, your brother Benjamin joined your ranks. Leaders came from Manasseh, and from Zebulun, those who hold the ruler’s staff." 
Judges5:15 Issachar’s princes rallied to Deborah, Issachar stood fast alongside Barak, rushing into the valley under Barak’s command, while among Reuben’s clans there was great searching of heart." 
Judges5:16 Reuben, why do you remain by the sheepfolds, listening for the shepherds to whistle for their flocks? Among Reuben’s clans there was great searching of heart." 
Judges5:17 Gad played it safe and stayed east of the Jordan, and Dan lingered near their ships, while Asher kept their distance and stayed by the coast, safe and secure in their harbors." 
Judges5:18 But Zebulun and Naphtali defied death and risked it all on the heights of the battlefield. 
Judges5:19 At Taanach foreign kings came and clashed; they battled by the stream of Megiddo. The kings of Canaan fought, but they took away no spoils of silver." 
Judges5:20 Even the stars in the sky joined in the fight, moving across the sky, shining as they fought against Sisera." 
Judges5:21 The flooding Kishon swept them away— the ancient Kishon River contended with them. I shall march and keep marching on. So be strong, O my soul!" 
Judges5:22 Then thundered the horses’ hooves, pulling the chariots of the kings of Canaan. Here they come galloping on, steeds and stallions stampeding on, but they all got stuck in the mud!" 
Judges5:23 “Speak a curse over Meroz,” says the angel of Yahweh, “and speak a double curse over those who live there. For they did not come to help Yahweh ’s cause nor rally to Yahweh ’s side to fight the mighty.”" 
Judges5:24 The most blessed of all women is Jael, wife of Heber the Kenite— the most fortunate of Bedouin women." 
Judges5:25 Sisera came to Jael’s tent and asked for water, but she gave him milk; she brought him buttermilk in a beautiful bowl." 
Judges5:26 With a tent peg in one hand and a workman’s hammer in the other, she struck Sisera and pierced his skull; she drove the peg through his temple." 
Judges5:27 She shattered his skull, and he lay still before Jael. Sprawled on the tent floor, he bit the dust at her feet— deader than a doornail!" 
Judges5:28 Sisera’s mother waited for him at her window; she gazed from behind the lattice and lamented: “Why is the clatter of his chariot so late in coming? Why are his horses so slow to return?” 
Judges5:29 The wisest of her princesses replied; indeed, she even thought to herself:" 
Judges5:30 “They must be gathering and dividing the spoils: a slave-girl or two for each man, colorful cloth and garments as plunder for Sisera, two colorful garments, embroidered, and richly embroidered garments for my neck.”" 
Judges5:31 Yahweh, may all who hate you perish in the same way! But may those who love you shine like the sun, bright in its strength as it crosses the sky! Then the land had peace for forty years." 
Judges6:1 Once again the Israelites did evil in the sight of Yahweh, so Yahweh handed them over to the Midianites for seven years." 
Judges6:2 The crushing power of the Midianites overwhelmed Israel, forcing the Israelites to make hiding places for themselves in caves and mountain strongholds." 
Judges6:3 Whenever the Israelites planted any crops, and before they could reap the harvest, the Midianites would come with the Amalekites and other desert tribes and invade the land." 
Judges6:4 They would camp in their fields and destroy their crops as far as Gaza. They would seize all their sheep, cattle, and donkeys. They left nothing for the Israelites to live on." 
Judges6:5 When they invaded the land with their livestock and camels and tents, they were as numerous as locusts, leaving the land desolate." 
Judges6:6 Israel was impoverished and helpless against them. Then the Israelites, with shattered hearts, cried out to Yahweh for mercy." 
Judges6:7 When the Israelites, with shattered hearts, cried out to Yahweh because of the Midianite oppression," 
Judges6:8 he sent them a prophet with this message: “Listen to the words of Yahweh, the God of Israel: ‘I delivered you from Egypt and from a life of slavery." 
Judges6:9 I snatched you from the brutality of the Egyptians. I rescued you from the people who invaded this land and fought against you. I drove them out as you advanced, and I gave their land to you." 
Judges6:10 I told you that I am Yahweh your God, and that you must not worship the false gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But you did not listen to my voice.’ ”" 
Judges6:11 The Angel of Yahweh came to the village of Ophrah and sat down under the oak tree that belonged to Joash, a man of the clan of Abiezer. His son Gideon was secretly threshing some wheat in a winepress so that the Midianites would not see him." 
Judges6:12 Yahweh ’s Angel suddenly appeared to Gideon and said, “ Yahweh ’s presence goes with you, man of fearless courage!”" 
Judges6:13 “Me?” Gideon replied. “But sir, if Yahweh is truly with us, why have all these troubles come to us? Where are all his miracle-wonders that our fathers told us about when they said, ‘Did not Yahweh deliver us out of Egypt?’ But now Yahweh has abandoned us and put us under the power of the Midianites.”" 
Judges6:14 Then Yahweh himself faced Gideon directly and said, “Am I not sending you? With my presence you have all you need. Go in the strength that you now have and rescue Israel from Midian’s power!”" 
Judges6:15 Gideon said to him, “But Lord, how could I ever rescue Israel? Of all the thousands in Manasseh, my clan is the weakest, and I’m the least qualified in my family.”" 
Judges6:16 Yahweh replied, “ My presence and my power will be with you. Believe me, Gideon, you will crush the Midianites as easily as if they were only one man!”" 
Judges6:17 Then Gideon said, “If it’s really true that you will go with me and that I have found grace before your eyes, then show me a miracle-sign to prove that you are really Yahweh speaking with me." 
Judges6:18 Don’t leave until I return with my offering to you.” And he answered, “I’ll wait until you return.”" 
Judges6:19 So Gideon went and cooked a young goat and many loaves of unleavened bread. He placed the meat in a basket and the broth in a pot and took his offering and presented it to him under the oak tree. 
Judges6:20 God’s Angel said to Gideon, “Place the meat and the bread on that rock and pour the broth over them.” And Gideon did so." 
Judges6:21 Then Yahweh ’s Angel reached out the staff he was holding and touched the meat and the bread. All at once, supernatural fire sprang up from the rock and burned up the meat and the bread. Then the Angel of Yahweh vanished from his sight." 
Judges6:22 Immediately, Gideon realized that he had seen the Angel of Yahweh! Terror stricken, he said, “Oh, Lord Yahweh! I have seen the Angel of Yahweh face-to-face!”" 
Judges6:23 But Yahweh spoke to him and said, “Be at peace. Don’t be afraid. You will not die.”" 
Judges6:24 So Gideon built an altar to Yahweh there and named it “In Yahweh there is Peace.” (The altar is still standing at Ophrah, which belongs to the clan of Abiezer.)" 
Judges6:25 That night, Yahweh spoke to Gideon and said, “Take your father’s bull and the second bull that is seven years old, and go and demolish your father’s altar to Baal. And cut down the tree of the goddess Asherah, which is beside it." 
Judges6:26 And in their place, on top of the stronghold, build a well-constructed altar to Yahweh your God. Use the Asherah tree you have cut down for firewood. Then take the second bull and burn it whole as an offering.”" 
Judges6:27 So Gideon took ten of his servants and did what Yahweh had told him. Because he feared both his family and the men of the town he did it at night rather than in the daytime. 
Judges6:28 When the people of the town got up early the next morning, they found the altar to Baal and the symbol of Asherah cut down, and the second bull burned on the new altar that Gideon had built there." 
Judges6:29 They asked each other, “Who did this?” After investigating thoroughly, they concluded that it was the work of Gideon son of Joash." 
Judges6:30 Enraged, they demanded of Joash, “Bring your son out here and we will kill him! He tore down the altar to Baal and chopped down the Asherah tree beside it.”" 
Judges6:31 But Joash said to all those who confronted him, “Does Baal need you to fight his battles? Are you really going to rescue him? I will kill anyone who stands up for Baal before morning. If Baal is a god, let him fight his own battles and defend his own altar!”" 
Judges6:32 From then on, Gideon’s nickname was “Jerubbaal,” that is to say, “Let Baal contend against him,” because he broke down his altar." 
Judges6:33 Now all the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the people of the East formed an army. They crossed the Jordan and camped in the Valley of Jezreel to fight against Israel." 
Judges6:34 Then the Spirit of Yahweh clothed himself in Gideon and enveloped him! Gideon sounded a blast of the shofar to call the men of the clan of Abiezer to follow him. 
Judges6:35 He sent messengers throughout the territory of both parts of Manasseh, and throughout the territory of Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali—to call them to follow Gideon into battle. And they all came to join him." 
Judges6:36 Gideon said to God, “If you have really chosen me to rescue Israel, as you said," 
Judges6:37 then give me proof. Here—I am placing a wool fleece on the threshing floor. If in the morning the dew is only on the wool but not on the ground around it, then I will know for sure that I’m the one you have chosen to rescue Israel, as you said.”" 
Judges6:38 And that is exactly what happened. When Gideon got up early the next morning, he squeezed the fleece and wrung out enough dew to fill a bowl." 
Judges6:39 Then Gideon said to God, “Don’t be angry with me; let me speak just once more. Please let me ask you for one more sign. This time let the fleece be dry, and the ground wet.”" 
Judges6:40 That night God did what Gideon had asked. The next morning the fleece was dry, but dew covered the ground around it." 
Judges7:1 Now, the Baal-Fighter (that is, Gideon) and his men rose early and encamped by the Spring of Trembling. The Midianites had encamped in the valley to the north, below Moreh." 
Judges7:2 Yahweh spoke to Gideon: “You have too many in your army. If I give them victory over the Midianites, they might claim credit for themselves at my expense, thinking that they had won the victory on their own." 
Judges7:3 Announce to your men, ‘All who are trembling and afraid, hurry back home and leave Mount Gilead!’ ” So twenty-two thousand went back home, and only ten thousand stayed with Gideon." 
Judges7:4 Then Yahweh spoke to Gideon again, “You still have too many men. Take them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. If I tell you a man should go with you, he will go. If I tell you a man should not go with you, he will not go.”" 
Judges7:5 So Gideon brought the soldiers down to the water, and Yahweh said to him, “Separate those who drink from their cupped hands and drink as a dog laps from those who kneel down to drink.”" 
Judges7:6 Of the ten thousand men, only three hundred lapped water from their cupped hands; all the others knelt to drink." 
Judges7:7 Then Yahweh told Gideon, “I will give you victory over the Midianites with the three hundred men who cupped their hands and drank. Tell everyone else to go home.”" 
Judges7:8 So Gideon sent all the Israelites home except the three hundred, who kept the supplies and shofars of those who had left. Now the Midianites were camped down below in the valley." 
Judges7:9 That night Yahweh commanded Gideon, “Get up and attack the camp; I am giving you victory over the Midianites!" 
Judges7:10 But if you are afraid to engage them, first go down to the camp with your servant Purah." 
Judges7:11 Listen to what they are saying, and then you will be brave and have the courage to attack.” So Gideon and his servant Purah went down and approached the outposts of the enemy camp." 
Judges7:12 The Midianites, the Amalekites, and the desert tribesmen were spread out in the valley like a swarm of locusts. They had as many camels as there were grains of sand on the seashore." 
Judges7:13 As soon as Gideon arrived, he heard an enemy soldier telling a friend about a dream. He was saying, “Well, I had a dream of this huge commotion in our camp. I dreamed a round loaf of barley bread came whirling into our camp and leveled a tent. It hit the tent so hard it turned it upside down, and the tent collapsed on the ground.”" 
Judges7:14 His friend interpreted the dream and said, “Your dream symbolizes the sword of the Israelite, Gideon son of Joash! It can’t mean anything else! God has given him victory over Midian and our whole army!”" 
Judges7:15 When Gideon heard about the man’s dream and what it meant, he fell to his knees and worshiped Yahweh. Then he went back to the Israelite camp and shouted, “Come on, it’s time to strike! Yahweh is giving you victory over the Midianite army!”" 
Judges7:16 He divided his three hundred men into three groups and gave each man a shofar and a clay jar hiding a torch inside it. 
Judges7:17 He told them, “Follow me! When I get to the edge of the camp, watch me closely and do exactly what I do." 
Judges7:18 When my group and I blow our shofars, then you blow yours all around the camp and shout, ‘For Yahweh and for Gideon!’ ”" 
Judges7:19 Just before midnight, after the changing of the Midianite guard, Gideon and his hundred men came to the outskirts of the camp. Then each of the three groups blew the shofars and broke the clay jars that hid the torches inside. They held their torches in their left hands, the shofars in their right, and shouted a thunderous battle cry, “A sword for Yahweh and for Gideon!”" 
Judges7:20  
Judges7:21 Each man held his position surrounding the camp. And the entire enemy army was shocked awake by the thunderous noises of Gideon’s army! They all panicked and fled, yelling as they ran away!" 
Judges7:22 When they sounded their three hundred shofars, Yahweh made the enemy troops turn against each other with their own swords. The Midianites fled toward Zarerah as far as Beth Shittah, as far as the outskirts of the town of Abel Meholah near Tabbath." 
Judges7:23 Gideon called to arms men from the tribes of Naphtali, Asher, and both parts of Manasseh, and they rallied and pursued the Midianites." 
Judges7:24 Then Gideon sent messengers through the entire hill country of Ephraim, saying, “Join us in the fight against the Midianites. Deny them access to the River Jordan and the streams as far as Beth Barah, and prevent them from crossing over.” The men of Ephraim came together, and they held the River Jordan and the streams as far as Beth Barah." 
Judges7:25 They captured the two Midianite chiefs, Oreb and Zeeb. They executed Oreb at Oreb Rock and Zeeb at Zeeb Winepress. While the Ephraimites continued to pursue the Midianites, they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon, who was now east of the Jordan." 
Judges8:1 The men of Ephraim got into a heated argument with Gideon and complained to him, “Why didn’t you tell us you were going to fight the Midianites? Why did you do that to us?”" 
Judges8:2 Gideon replied, “What have I accomplished compared to you? What your tribe did is worth so much more than what my whole clan has done." 
Judges8:3 After all, through the power of God, you killed both Midianite chiefs, Oreb and Zeeb. What have I done compared with you?” After he said this, they calmed down and were no longer so angry." 
Judges8:4 Totally exhausted, Gideon and his three hundred men crossed the river Jordan and continued to pursue the enemy." 
Judges8:5 When they arrived at Succoth, he said to the men of the town, “Please give my men some loaves of bread. They are exhausted, and I am still pursuing the two Midianite kings, Zebah and Zalmunna.”" 
Judges8:6 But the leaders of Succoth replied, “Why should we give any food to your army? You haven’t even captured Zebah and Zalmunna yet.”" 
Judges8:7 So Gideon said, “All right! Since you won’t help me, when Yahweh has handed them over to me, I’ll whip you with thorns and briars from the desert!”" 
Judges8:8 Gideon went on to Penuel and made the same request of the people there, but the men of Penuel gave him the same reply as the men of Succoth." 
Judges8:9 So he informed them, “I’ll come back victoriously, and when I do, I will tear your tower down!”" 
Judges8:10 Zebah and Zalmunna were at Karkor with an army of fifteen thousand men who survived, for one hundred twenty thousand sword-wielding soldiers had already been killed." 
Judges8:11 Gideon followed the desert trail of the nomads east of Nobah and Jogbehah, surprised the enemy’s army, and ambushed them." 
Judges8:12 The two Midianite kings, Zebah and Zalmunna, escaped, but Gideon pursued and captured them, and terrified what remained of the Midianite army." 
Judges8:13 While Gideon son of Joash was returning from the battle by way of Heres Pass," 
Judges8:14 he captured a young man from Succoth and interrogated him. The young man wrote down for Gideon the names of the seventy-seven leading men of Succoth. 
Judges8:15 Then Gideon went to the men of Succoth and said, “You mocked me, refused to help me, and said that you couldn’t give any food to my exhausted army because I had not yet captured Zebah and Zalmunna. Well, here they are!”" 
Judges8:16 As he had promised, Gideon took desert thorns and briars and whipped the leaders of Succoth." 
Judges8:17 As for Penuel, Gideon tore down its tower and killed the men of that city." 
Judges8:18 Then Gideon asked the kings, Zebah and Zalmunna, “What can you tell me about the men you killed at Tabor?” They answered, “They looked just like you. Every one of them looked like the son of a king.”" 
Judges8:19 Gideon said, “They were my brothers, my own mother’s sons. I swear, as surely as Yahweh lives, that if you had let them live, I would let you live.”" 
Judges8:20 Then he turned to Jether, his firstborn son, and said, “Go ahead, kill them now!” But the boy wouldn’t do it. He didn’t draw his sword because he was still only a timid boy." 
Judges8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna taunted Gideon, “Come on, kill us yourself. It takes a man to do a man’s job.” So Gideon executed them and plundered the crescent ornaments that hung on the necks of their camels." 
Judges8:22 After that, the Israelites said to Gideon, “ You’re our war hero! You’re the one who saved us from the Midianites. You be our ruler! Then your son will rule after you, and then your grandson.”" 
Judges8:23 Gideon answered, “No. Neither I nor my son will be your ruler. Yahweh is to be your only King." 
Judges8:24 However, I do have one request,” Gideon added. “Give me all the gold earrings you took from the Midianites.” (It was the custom of the Midianites to wear gold earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)" 
Judges8:25 The people answered, “Gladly. They’re yours!” They spread out a cloth, and each one placed on it the earrings they had taken as plunder." 
Judges8:26 Gideon received gold earrings that weighed seventeen hundred shekels, not including the crescent ornaments, necklaces, and fine purple robes of the kings of Midian, nor the ornamental collars taken from the necks of their camels." 
Judges8:27 Gideon used all this plunder to make a sacred golden ephod. He put it on display in his hometown, Ophrah, and all Israel strayed from Yahweh and gave over their hearts to the golden ephod. It was a seducing snare for Gideon and his family." 
Judges8:28 So Israel defeated Midian, who never troubled them again. The land had peace for forty years until Gideon died." 
Judges8:29 Gideon, the Baal-Fighter, son of Joash, returned to his own home and lived there." 
Judges8:30 Because he had many wives, Gideon fathered seventy sons." 
Judges8:31 In addition, he took a concubine in Shechem. She bore him a son, and he named him Abimelech." 
Judges8:32 Gideon son of Joash died at a ripe old age and was buried in the tomb of his father Joash, at Ophrah, a town of the clan of Abiezer." 
Judges8:33 No sooner had Gideon died than the Israelites again abandoned the true God and worshiped the images of Baal. They made Baal-Berith their god 
Judges8:34 and no longer remembered Yahweh their God, who had saved them from all their enemies on every side." 
Judges8:35 The Israelites failed to demonstrate loyal love to the family of Gideon, the Baal-Fighter, for all the good that he had done for them." 
Judges9:1 Abimelech son of Baal-Fighter (or Gideon) went to his mother’s brothers and to the rest of her clan in Shechem and said to them," 
Judges9:2 “Ask all the leaders of Shechem, ‘Which do you prefer: to have just one man as your ruler or have seventy of Baal-Fighter’s sons rule over you?’ And don’t forget, I’m your own flesh and blood.”" 
Judges9:3 When the brothers repeated these words to the leaders of Shechem, their hearts were drawn to Abimelech, for they said, “He is from our hometown and from our own clan.”" 
Judges9:4 They gave him seventy shekels of silver from the temple of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech used it to hire reckless scoundrels to follow him." 
Judges9:5 He went to his father’s home in Ophrah and on one stone executed his seventy brothers, the sons of Baal-Fighter. Jotham, Baal-Fighter’s youngest son, escaped and went into hiding." 
Judges9:6 All the citizens of Shechem and Beth Millo gathered beside the sacred tree at the pillar in Shechem and crowned Abimelech king. 
Judges9:7 When Jotham learned about this, he climbed up on the top of Mount Gerizim and shouted: “Listen to me, citizens of Shechem, so that God may listen to you." 
Judges9:8 All the trees one day determined to anoint a king for themselves. They said to the olive tree, ‘Be our king.’" 
Judges9:9 “But the olive tree answered, ‘What? Give up my rich oil that is used to honor both gods and men, to hold sway over the trees?’" 
Judges9:10 “Next, the trees said to the fig tree, ‘Come and be our king.’" 
Judges9:11 “But the fig tree replied, ‘What? Give up my good, sweet fruit to hold sway over the trees?’" 
Judges9:12 “Then the trees said to the vine, ‘Come and be our king.’" 
Judges9:13 “But the vine answered, ‘What? Give up my wine, which cheers both gods and men, to hold sway over the trees?’" 
Judges9:14 “Finally, all the trees said to the thornbush, ‘Come and be our king.’" 
Judges9:15 “The thornbush replied, ‘If you really want to anoint me your king, then come and put your trust in my shade. If you don’t, then let fire blaze out of my thorny branches and consume the cedars of Lebanon!’" 
Judges9:16 “Now then let me ask you this: Do you really think you did a right and honorable thing when you made Abimelech king? Do you think you treated Baal-Fighter and his family fairly? 
Judges9:17 And to think that my father fought for you, and risked his life to save you from the power of the Midianites!" 
Judges9:18 Today, you have revolted against my father’s family, murdered his seventy sons on a single stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his slave girl, king over the citizens of Shechem because he’s your close relative." 
Judges9:19 What were you thinking? If you have acted honorably and done what is right by Baal-Fighter and his family today, then may you enjoy Abimelech, this thornbush king of yours, and may he enjoy you too!" 
Judges9:20 But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and consume you, citizens of Shechem and Beth Millo, and let fire come out from you, citizens of Shechem and Beth Millo, and consume Abimelech!”" 
Judges9:21 After shouting these words, Jotham ran away and went to live at the Well because he was afraid of his brother Abimelech." 
Judges9:22 After Abimelech had ruled Israel for three years," 
Judges9:23 God sent a spirit to stir up hostility between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem, and they rebelled against him." 
Judges9:24 God sent this judgment in order to avenge the brutal murder of Baal-Fighter’s seventy sons and the shedding of their blood. Righteous retribution caught up with both Abimelech, who had instigated the murder of his half brothers, and the citizens of Shechem, who had aided and abetted him." 
Judges9:25 In their uprising against Abimelech, the citizens of Shechem placed bandits on the hilltops to ambush and rob everyone who passed by, and Abimelech heard of their treachery." 
Judges9:26 One day, a man named Gaal son of Ebed moved with his clan into Shechem, and Gaal won the confidence of the people." 
Judges9:27 After the grape harvest, they trod the grapes and celebrated a festival in the temple of Baal, their god. While they were drinking and feasting, they cursed Abimelech." 
Judges9:28 Gaal son of Ebed rose and said, “Who is this Abimelech? We are the Shechemites now! Why should we serve him? Isn’t he Baal-Fighter’s son, and isn’t the governor of our city Zebul his deputy? Why should we take orders from him; we are descendants of Hamor, Shechem’s founder. Why should we be slaves of Abimelech?" 
Judges9:29 If only the people of Shechem were under my command, then I would get rid of him. I would say to Abimelech, ‘Assemble your whole army! We’ll defeat them all! ’ ”" 
Judges9:30 Zebul, the governor of the city, was infuriated when he heard of the taunts of Gaal son of Ebed." 
Judges9:31 He secretly sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, “Gaal son of Ebed and his clan have come to Shechem. They’re inciting the entire city against you." 
Judges9:32 Now then, under the cover of darkness, you and your men should come and take up concealed positions in the fields." 
Judges9:33 At sunrise launch your surprise attack and advance against the city. When Gaal and his men come out to face you, fight them with all of your might.”" 
Judges9:34 So Abimelech and all his men set out by night and took up concealed positions near Shechem in four groups. 
Judges9:35 Gaal son of Ebed went out and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city just as Abimelech and his soldiers got up from their hiding places. 
Judges9:36 When Gaal saw them, he said to Zebul, “Look, an army is marching down from the hilltops!” Zebul replied, “That’s nothing but shadows in the hills; they only look like men.”" 
Judges9:37 Gaal spoke up again: “No, look! I see people coming down the center, and another group from the direction of Oracle Oak.”" 
Judges9:38 Then Zebul said to him, “Where is all your big talk now? Weren’t you the loudmouth who said, ‘Who is Abimelech that he could make us his slaves?’ The men you ridiculed are now coming to fight you! Go ahead—go and fight them!”" 
Judges9:39 So Gaal led the men of Shechem and went out to fight Abimelech. 
Judges9:40 Abimelech chased him, and many Shechemites fell wounded and died before they could retreat to the city gate." 
Judges9:41 Abimelech returned to his headquarters at Arumah, while Zebul drove Gaal and his clan out of Shechem." 
Judges9:42 The next day Abimelech found out that the people of Shechem were planning to go out on a foray into the countryside. 
Judges9:43 So he divided his men into three groups, and they set out to ambush the Shechemites in the fields. As soon as Abimelech saw the people leaving the city, he sprang up and attacked them." 
Judges9:44 Abimelech and his men advanced rapidly and occupied the city gate. The other two companies chased them down out into the open fields and killed them. 
Judges9:45 Abimelech fought hard all day at the gate of Shechem until he had captured the city. He massacred all its people, leveled the city to rubble, and scattered salt over it." 
Judges9:46 When they heard the news, the leading citizens living in the Shechem Tower ran into the stronghold of the temple of Baal-Berith." 
Judges9:47 When Abimelech heard that they had assembled there," 
Judges9:48 he and all his forces went up Mount Zalmon. Taking an axe in his hand, he cut off some branches and hoisted the bundle onto his shoulders. He ordered the men with him, “Quick! Do the same!”" 
Judges9:49 So each one cut a bundle of branches and followed Abimelech. They piled them against the walls of the temple and with the people inside they set it on fire. So everyone who fled into the tower of Shechem died; nearly a thousand men and women perished. 
Judges9:50 Next, Abimelech attacked the city of Thebez and captured it." 
Judges9:51 All the people had fled to the Tower of Strength in the middle of the city. They locked themselves in and climbed up onto the tower roof. 
Judges9:52 Abimelech advanced as far as the tower, stormed it, and set it on fire." 
Judges9:53 But a woman dropped a millstone on his head and fractured his skull. 
Judges9:54 Abimelech cried out to his armor-bearer, “Kill me with your sword so no one can say I was killed by a woman.” So his servant ran him through, and he died." 
Judges9:55 When the Israelites saw that Abimelech was dead, everyone went home." 
Judges9:56 God avenged the evil that Abimelech had done to his father by murdering his seventy brothers. 
Judges9:57 God also punished the Shechemites for all their wickedness. That day, the curse of Jotham son of Baal-Fighter was fulfilled." 
Judges10:1 After Abimelech died, Yahweh raised up a man of Issachar’s tribe to deliver Israel. His name was Tola son of Puah and grandson of Dodo. He lived in the village of Shamir in the highlands of Ephraim." 
Judges10:2 He was Israel’s champion-deliverer for twenty-three years; then he died and was buried at Shamir. 
Judges10:3 After Tola, Yahweh raised up a man from Gilead whose name was Jair. He was Israel’s champion-deliverer for twenty-two years." 
Judges10:4 He had thirty sons, who rode on thirty donkeys, and thirty villages belonged to them. These villages are in the region of Gilead and are called Jair’s Villages to this day." 
Judges10:5 Jair died and was buried at Kamon. 
Judges10:6 The Israelites again did evil in the sight of Yahweh, worshiping the Baals and the Ashtaroths, the gods of Aram, Sidon, Moab, and Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines. Because Israel entirely abandoned the worship of Yahweh," 
Judges10:7 Yahweh became furious with Israel, and he handed them over to the oppression of the Philistines and the Ammonites." 
Judges10:8 They crushed and oppressed all the Israelites for eighteen years. They ruled over all the Israelites living east of the Jordan in Gilead, in the land of the Amorites." 
Judges10:9 The Ammonites also crossed the Jordan and fought against the tribes of Judah, Benjamin, and Ephraim, leaving Israel distressed." 
Judges10:10 Then the Israelites desperately cried out to Yahweh, “We have sinned against you because we have abandoned our God and have worshiped the Baals.”" 
Judges10:11 Yahweh answered them, “Did I not rescue you in the past from the power of the Egyptians, the Amorites, the Ammonites, the Philistines," 
Judges10:12 the Sidonians, the Amalekites, and the Midianites? When they swept over you and oppressed you and when you cried out in desperation to me, did I not deliver you and set you free from their power?" 
Judges10:13 Because you have abandoned me to serve false gods, I am no longer coming to your rescue!" 
Judges10:14 Go ahead and pray all you want to these new gods you have chosen. Let’s see if they will come and deliver you in your time of trouble!” 
Judges10:15 But the Israelites continued to plead with Yahweh, “Rescue us! We know we are guilty. You can do to us whatever seems good to you, but please, come to our rescue!”" 
Judges10:16 So they threw away the false gods from among them and returned to worshiping Yahweh. At last, Yahweh felt Israel’s misery and could bear it no longer." 
Judges10:17 Then the Ammonites mustered an army and encamped in Gilead, while the Israelites rallied together, and they encamped at Mizpah." 
Judges10:18 The commanders of the people of Gilead said to one another, “Whoever starts the fight against the Ammonites, we’ll make him our leader.”" 
Judges11:1 Yahweh raised up a brave, fearless champion from Gilead to deliver Israel. His name was Jephthah, and he was the son of a prostitute. His father Gilead" 
Judges11:2 had other sons by his wife, and when they grew up, they forced Jephthah to leave home. They said to him, “You will inherit nothing of our father’s wealth because you are the son of another woman.”" 
Judges11:3 Jephthah fled from his half brothers and lived in the land of Tob. There he recruited a gang of lawless mercenaries who traveled around with him. 
Judges11:4 Sometime later, the Ammonites waged war against Israel." 
Judges11:5 When they attacked Israel, the leaders of Gilead went to the land of Tob to find Jephthah and to bring him back from exile." 
Judges11:6 Swallowing their pride, they said to him, “Come and lead us so that we can fight the Ammonites.”" 
Judges11:7 Jephthah answered, “You’re the very people who hated me so much that you kicked me out of my father’s house. Why are you coming to me now that you’re in trouble?”" 
Judges11:8 They said to Jephthah, “We’re turning to you now because we want you to lead us in battle. Come and fight the Ammonites. You’re the one we need! ”" 
Judges11:9 Jephthah said to them, “ Very well. If you take me back home to fight the Ammonites and Yahweh gives me victory, then you will make me your ruler. Agreed?”" 
Judges11:10 “That’s right,” they replied. “With Yahweh as our witness, we pledge our loyalty to you.”" 
Judges11:11 So Jephthah returned home with the leaders of Gilead, and the people made him their commander and ruler. Jephthah stated his terms in a solemn ceremony at Mizpah in the presence of Yahweh." 
Judges11:12 Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of Ammon to ask, “What is your quarrel with us? Why have you invaded our country?”" 
Judges11:13 The king of Ammon answered Jephthah’s messengers, “When the Israelites came out of Egypt, they seized my land from the River Arnon to the River Jabbok, as far as the River Jordan. Now give it all back, and we’ll be at peace.”" 
Judges11:14 Jephthah again sent messengers back to the king of Ammon 
Judges11:15 with this answer: “Israel seized neither the land of Moab nor the land of Ammon. 
Judges11:16 When the Israelites left Egypt, they passed through the desert to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh." 
Judges11:17 They sent messengers to the king of Edom requesting permission to go through his land, but the king of Edom refused. They also asked the king of Moab, but he too would not cooperate. So the Israelites were forced to remain at Kadesh." 
Judges11:18 Leaving from there, they traveled through the desert in order to bypass the land of Edom and the land of Moab. When they arrived at the east side of Moab, on the other side of the River Arnon, they made camp there, but they did not cross the Arnon because it was Moab’s boundary." 
Judges11:19 Then, the Israelites dispatched messengers to Sihon, the Amorite king of Heshbon, and requested his permission to go through his country to their own land." 
Judges11:20 Because Sihon did not trust Israel, he assembled his whole army, made camp at Jahaz, and attacked Israel." 
Judges11:21 But Yahweh, the mighty God of Israel, gave the Israelites victory over Sihon and his army. So the Israelites took possession of all the territory of the Amorites who lived in that land." 
Judges11:22 Then they occupied all the Amorite territory from the Arnon in the south to the Jabbok in the north and from the desert in the east to the Jordan in the west. 
Judges11:23 Since it was Yahweh the mighty God of Israel who drove out the Amorites for his people, the Israelites," 
Judges11:24 who do you think you are to try to take it back? You should be satisfied with whatever land your god Chemosh has won for himself, but we are going to keep everything that Yahweh our mighty God has given us." 
Judges11:25 Do you think you’re stronger than Moab’s king Balak son of Zippor? He never challenged Israel over disputed land, did he? Did he ever go to war against us?" 
Judges11:26 For three hundred years, Israel has been living here and occupying Heshbon, Aroer, and the towns around them, and all the cities on the banks of the Arnon River. Why have you waited until now to try to take them back?" 
Judges11:27 No, I have not wronged you; rather, you are doing me wrong by attacking me. Let Yahweh be the judge, and let him decide today which of us is right, Israel or Ammon.”" 
Judges11:28 But the king of Ammon ignored Jephthah’s message. 
Judges11:29 Then the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon Jephthah and empowered him. He and his men marched through Gilead and Manasseh and returned to Mizpah in Gilead, and from there, he stalked the Ammonites." 
Judges11:30 Jephthah promised Yahweh: “If you give me victory over the Ammonites," 
Judges11:31 I will offer up to you as a burnt offering the first thing that comes out of my house to greet me when I return in victory. I will sacrifice that one as an offering to you.” 
Judges11:32 So Jephthah crossed the river with his men to fight the Ammonites, and Yahweh gave him victory." 
Judges11:33 He struck at them from Aroer to the area near Minnith, twenty villages in all, and as far as Abel Keramim. The Israelites brought the Ammonites down to the dust in a great slaughter." 
Judges11:34 When Jephthah arrived home at Mizpah, his daughter came hurrying out of the house to welcome her father home, dancing to the rhythm of tambourines. She was his only child—his one and only." 
Judges11:35 When he realized who had come out, he ripped his cloak and was overcome with grief. He exclaimed, “Oh no! My dearest daughter, you have torn my heart to shreds! Must it be you I offer? I have made a solemn promise to Yahweh, and I cannot retract it!”" 
Judges11:36 She said to him, “My father, you have made a vow to Yahweh and he has delivered you from your enemies, the Ammonites. Do to me what you promised him you would do." 
Judges11:37 But please grant me one thing. Spare me for two months and let me go with my friends to grieve. Let me be free to wander on the hills and to lament my sad fate.” 
Judges11:38 “Go,” he replied, and he sent her away for two months. She and her friends went into the mountains and grieved because she was going to die unmarried and childless." 
Judges11:39 After two months, she returned to her father, and Jephthah fulfilled his vow to Yahweh. His daughter died still a virgin. (This was the origin of the custom in Israel" 
Judges11:40 that young women would go away each year to grieve and lament for the daughter of Jephthah of Gilead.) 
Judges12:1 Jephthah’s actions grievously offended the men of Ephraim. They assembled their forces and crossed the Jordan River to Zaphon to confront Jephthah. They said to him, “Why did you cross the border to fight the Ammonites without inviting us to join you? We’re going to burn your house down over your head!”" 
Judges12:2 Jephthah replied, “I and my people were in the middle of a serious conflict with the Ammonites. I summoned you, but you ignored me." 
Judges12:3 When I realized that you were not coming to help us, I risked my own life to cross the border to fight them. Yahweh empowered me to be victorious over them. So why are you coming to fight with me now?”" 
Judges12:4 Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought the men of Ephraim. The men of Gilead defeated them, for the Ephraimites insulted them, saying, “You men of Gilead are nothing but renegades from Ephraim and Manasseh!”" 
Judges12:5 In order to keep the Ephraimites from escaping, the men of Gilead captured the places where they could cross the Jordan. When any Ephraimite tried to escape and asked permission to cross the river, the men of Gilead would ask, “Are you an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No,”" 
Judges12:6 they would tell him to say “Shibboleth.” But if he could not pronounce it correctly and said “Sibboleth,” the men of Gilead would seize him and kill him there at the crossing place of the Jordan. At that time, they killed forty-two thousand Ephraimites." 
Judges12:7 Jephthah ruled Israel for six years. When he died, they buried him in his hometown in Gilead." 
Judges12:8 After Jephthah, Yahweh raised up Ibzan, a champion-deliverer from Bethlehem who ruled Israel." 
Judges12:9 He had thirty sons and thirty daughters. He gave his thirty daughters in marriage outside his tribe and brought thirty women from outside the tribe as wives for his sons. Ibzan ruled Israel for seven years. 
Judges12:10 When he died, they buried him at Bethlehem." 
Judges12:11 After Ibzan, Yahweh raised up Elon, a champion-deliverer from Zebulun, who ruled Israel for ten years." 
Judges12:12 When he died, they buried him at Aijalon in the territory of Zebulun." 
Judges12:13 After Elon, Yahweh raised up Abdon son of Hillel, a champion-deliverer from Pirathon, to rule Israel." 
Judges12:14 He had forty sons and thirty grandsons, who rode on seventy donkeys. Abdon led Israel for eight years." 
Judges12:15 When he died, they buried him at Pirathon in the territory of Ephraim in the hill country of the Amalekites." 
Judges13:1 Once again, the Israelites continued doing evil in the sight of Yahweh, so he subjected them to Philistine rule for forty years." 
Judges13:2 There was a certain man from the tribe of Dan, who lived in the city of Zorah, named Manoah. His wife was barren and childless," 
Judges13:3 but the Angel of Yahweh appeared to her and said, “Look here! You are no longer barren and childless, for you will conceive and give birth to a son." 
Judges13:4 Now be careful not to drink any wine or beer and to eat nothing considered unclean. 
Judges13:5 You will conceive and will give birth to a son. Raise the boy as one dedicated to God from the womb and never cut his hair. He will begin to deliver Israel from Philistine power.” 
Judges13:6 So Manoah’s wife went to her husband and said, “A man sent from God came to me! He looked like an angel of God—incredibly awesome. I didn’t ask where he came from, and he didn’t tell me his name," 
Judges13:7 but he told me, ‘You will become pregnant, and you will have a son. Make sure you don’t drink any wine or beer, and eat nothing unclean, for the boy will be fully devoted to God from the womb to the day he dies!’ ”" 
Judges13:8 Manoah pleaded with Yahweh, “O my Lord, please send the man of God back to us. Have him come to instruct us how to raise the son who is to be born.”" 
Judges13:9 God answered Manoah’s prayer and sent the Angel of God to the woman again while she was sitting alone in the field. Her husband Manoah was not with her 
Judges13:10 so she ran at once to tell him the news: “Look! Come quickly! He reappeared—the same man who came to me that day!” 
Judges13:11 So Manoah got up, followed his wife, and went to the man. Manoah said to him, “Are you the man who appeared and spoke to my wife?” “I am,” he said." 
Judges13:12 Manoah replied, “Well, when Yahweh fulfills your prophecy, how should we raise the boy, and what is his life mission?”" 
Judges13:13 The Angel of Yahweh answered, “Do everything that I instructed your wife." 
Judges13:14 She must abstain from anything that comes from the grapevine and drink no alcohol, nor should she eat anything unclean. She must do all that I have commanded her.”" 
Judges13:15 Manoah said to the Angel of Yahweh, “Please stay here until we cook a young goat for you.”" 
Judges13:16 The Angel of Yahweh said to Manoah, “Even if you detain me, I will not eat your food. But if you want to prepare a burnt offering, offer it up to Yahweh.” Manoah did not realize that he was speaking with the Angel of Yahweh." 
Judges13:17 Stunned, Manoah asked the Angel of Yahweh. “What is your name? When Yahweh fulfills your prophecy, we want to honor you!”" 
Judges13:18 The Angel of Yahweh replied, “Why ask for my name? It is ‘Wonderfully Hidden!’ ”" 
Judges13:19 So Manoah prepared the young goat and his grain offering and took them to the rock to offer them up to Yahweh, the wonder-working God. While Manoah and his wife watched," 
Judges13:20 flames burst from the rock and ascended upward to heaven from the altar. The Angel of Yahweh, wrapped in the flames of fire, ascended into the sky. Dazed, Manoah and his wife fell facedown to the ground in worship." 
Judges13:21 Only then did Manoah realize that he had met the Angel of Yahweh! He turned to his wife and said, “We’re as good as dead! God has just visited us!” But his wife said, “If Yahweh had planned to kill us, he wouldn’t have accepted our burnt offering and our grain offering. He wouldn’t have revealed all these things to us or have spoken to us as he did just now.” And Manoah and his wife never encountered Yahweh ’s Angel again." 
Judges13:22  
Judges13:23  
Judges13:24 Manoah’s wife gave birth to a son, and she named him Samson. The boy grew up with Yahweh ’s blessing on his life." 
Judges13:25 The Spirit of Yahweh began to stir his heart while he was between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the Camp of Dan." 
Judges14:1 One day Samson went down to Timnah where a Philistine girl caught his eye," 
Judges14:2 so he returned home and told his parents, “At Timnah I noticed a young woman among the daughters of the Philistines; get her for me now to be my wife.”" 
Judges14:3 His parents replied, “Why can’t you find a woman from among our relatives, or at least from our tribe? You don’t have to get a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines.” But Samson told his father, “Get her for me; I know she’s the right one for me.”" 
Judges14:4 Now, his parents had no idea that Samson’s passion for the girl was part of Yahweh ’s plan to create an opportunity to come against the Philistines who ruled over Israel at that time." 
Judges14:5 One day, Samson decided to go back to Timnah to visit the Philistine woman. As he was approaching the vineyards of Timnah, a full-grown lion suddenly came roaring toward him." 
Judges14:6 The Spirit of Yahweh entered Samson and empowered him to tear the lion to pieces with his bare hands as if it were a young goat! But he never disclosed to his father and mother what he had done. 
Judges14:7 Afterward, he went into Timnah and talked with the Philistine woman, because Samson was convinced that she was the right one for him." 
Judges14:8 Later, Samson returned to marry her. On his way there, he turned aside to look at the lion’s remains, and to his surprise, there was a swarm of bees, honey, and honeycomb in the carcass of the lion!" 
Judges14:9 He scooped some of the honey into his hands and continued on his way, eating as he went. When he rejoined his father and mother, he gave some to them, and they ate too. But he did not tell them he had scooped it from the lion’s carcass." 
Judges14:10 So Samson’s father accompanied him to Timnah to arrange the marriage. Following the custom for young men about to marry, Samson threw a party that lasted for seven days." 
Judges14:11 When the Philistines saw him, they arranged for thirty Philistine men to accompany him as groomsmen." 
Judges14:12 Samson challenged them with a riddle, “Hey, I have a riddle for you. If you can solve my riddle within the seven days of our feast, then I will give each of you a linen garment and a set of fine clothing." 
Judges14:13 But if you cannot solve it, then you must give me thirty linen garments and thirty sets of fine clothing.” “Ask away,” they said to him. “Let’s hear your riddle.”" 
Judges14:14 He said to them: “From the eater came something to eat, From the strong came something sweet.” After three days, they were still stumped and could not figure it out." 
Judges14:15 On the fourth day, they said to Samson’s bride, “Have you invited us here to bankrupt us? Do whatever it takes to persuade your husband to tell you the answer to his riddle, or we will burn down your father’s house with you and your family inside!”" 
Judges14:16 So Samson’s bride went to him and turned on the tears and sobbed, “Honey, you don’t really love me! You hate me! You’ve challenged my countrymen with a riddle, but you haven’t told me its meaning!” “Listen,” he said to her. “I haven’t even told my parents. So why should I tell you?”" 
Judges14:17 She continued to cry on his shoulder for the remaining days of their feast, and on the seventh day, because she had so persistently nagged him, he finally gave in and divulged the secret. Then she went and explained the riddle to her countrymen." 
Judges14:18 On the seventh day before the sun had set, the townsmen answered him: “What could be sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion?” And Samson angrily replied, “If you hadn’t used my cow for your plow you wouldn’t know my riddle now!”" 
Judges14:19 Then suddenly, the Spirit of Yahweh rushed upon Samson, infusing him with power! He went down to Ashkelon and killed thirty of their men. He stripped them of their linen tunics and their robes and gave them in payment to those who had explained the riddle. Then, in a blazing fury, he returned to his father’s house." 
Judges14:20 Meanwhile, unknown to Samson, his bride married his best man." 
Judges15:1 Later, during the wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife and took a young goat as a gift for her. He said to her father, “I’m going into my wife’s bedroom to sleep with her.” But her father wouldn’t let him enter. He said to Samson," 
Judges15:2 “I thought you really despised her and had divorced her, so I gave her to your best man. Look, her younger sister is even more beautiful than she. Take her instead.”" 
Judges15:3 Samson said, “That does it! This time I’ll settle my score with you Philistines for good!”" 
Judges15:4 Samson went out and caught three hundred foxes, tied their tails together in pairs, and lashed a torch between each pair of tails." 
Judges15:5 He lit the torches and set the foxes loose in the grain fields of the Philistines, burning all their grain to the ground, including the sheaves and the standing grain, as well as their vineyards and olive groves." 
Judges15:6 “Who did this?” the Philistines demanded. “Samson,” someone told them, “because his father-in-law from Timnah gave Samson’s bride to his best man.” So the Philistines went and burned both the woman and her father to death." 
Judges15:7 “Because you did this despicable act,” Samson vowed, “I won’t rest until I get even with you!”" 
Judges15:8 He was so furious that he launched a vicious attack on the Philistines and single handedly slaughtered many of them. Afterward, he went and hid in a cave in the cliff of Etam." 
Judges15:9 The Philistines retaliated by setting up camp in Judah and deploying their men near the town of Lehi. 
Judges15:10 The men of Judah asked the Philistines, “Why are you coming against us?” The Philistines replied, “We’ve come to capture Samson and repay him for what he did to us.”" 
Judges15:11 So three thousand men of Judah went to Samson’s cave in the cliff of Etam, and they said to him, “What are you trying to do to us? Don’t you realize the Philistines rule over us?” Samson replied, “I only did to them what they did to me.”" 
Judges15:12 The men of Judah told him, “We’ve come to take you prisoner and hand you over to the Philistines.” “All right,” Samson said, “but promise me that you won’t kill me.”" 
Judges15:13 “We promise not to kill you,” they replied. “We’ll only tie you up and hand you over to the Philistines.” They bound him with two brand new ropes and led him from the cave near the cliff of Etam to Lehi." 
Judges15:14 When the Philistines saw Samson coming, they raised a shout of triumph. Immediately, the mighty Spirit of Yahweh came rushing upon Samson! He snapped the ropes off his arms as if they were strings catching fire, and they fell from his wrists." 
Judges15:15 He spotted a raw jawbone of a donkey lying there on the ground and picked it up. He began to swing it wildly and used it to kill a thousand Philistines that day. 
Judges15:16 Samson then said, “With only a donkey’s jawbone, I made heaps of donkeys out of them! With only a donkey’s jawbone, a thousand men lie slain!”" 
Judges15:17 When he finished boasting, he threw the jawbone to the ground. That’s how the place got its name—Jawbone Hill." 
Judges15:18 Afterward, Samson was terribly thirsty and cried out to Yahweh, “I was strengthened by your great power to win this awesome victory. Will you now leave me here dying of thirst—and let me fall into the hands of these pagans?”" 
Judges15:19 So God answered Samson’s prayer and split open the rock basin under Lehi, and water gushed out! Samson drank and his spirit was revived. He named that place “The Spring for the One Who Cried,” and it is still there in Lehi to this day." 
Judges15:20 Samson led Israel as its champion-deliverer for twenty years during the period of Philistine oppression. 
Judges16:1 One day, Samson went to Gaza, a Philistine town, and slept with a prostitute there." 
Judges16:2 Word soon spread that Samson was in town, so the men of Gaza gathered and hid at the town gates, cutting off his escape. They made no move during the night, saying, “We’ll kill him at dawn when he tries to leave.”" 
Judges16:3 But in the middle of the night, Samson got up and left. On his way out of Gaza, he took hold of the doors of the town gate and ripped them off their hinges—two posts, the gates, and the locking bar. He hoisted them all on his shoulders and carried them off a great distance to the top of the hill across from Hebron." 
Judges16:4 Some time later Samson fell in love with a woman named Delilah from the Sorek Valley. 
Judges16:5 The rulers of the Philistines went to her with a plan: “Trick Samson into telling you the secret of his great strength. Find out how we can subdue him. We’ll tie him up and make him helpless. Then each of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.” 
Judges16:6 So Delilah approached Samson and asked, “Please dear, won’t you tell me the secret of your strength and how you could be tied up and made helpless?”" 
Judges16:7 Samson replied, “If someone bound me with seven new bowstrings that haven’t been dried, I’ll become as weak as an ordinary man.”" 
Judges16:8 So the Philistine tyrants brought Delilah seven new bowstrings, and she tied Samson up with them." 
Judges16:9 With men waiting in ambush in one of the inner rooms of her house, she cried out, “Samson! The Philistines are here to capture you!” But Samson snapped the bowstrings like a piece of string snaps when it is burned by a fire. So no one discovered the secret of his strength." 
Judges16:10 Afterward, Delilah said to him, “You’ve made fun of me and told me lies! Please tell me how you can be tied up securely.”" 
Judges16:11 Samson replied, “If someone bound me with brand-new ropes that have never been used, I’ll become as weak as anyone else.”" 
Judges16:12 So Delilah took new ropes and tied him up with them, and the men were waiting in ambush in the inner room as before. Delilah cried out, “Samson! The Philistines are here to capture you!” Once again, Samson easily snapped the ropes from his arms like they were threads." 
Judges16:13 Delilah reprimanded him, saying, “You’ve made a fool of me and lied to me again! Now tell me the truth—how can you be tied up?” Samson replied, “If you weave the seven braids of my hair into the fabric on your loom and tighten it with the pin, I’ll become as weak as anyone else.” So while he slept, Delilah wove the seven braids of his hair into the fabric" 
Judges16:14 and pinned it with a peg. Again she cried out, “Samson! The Philistines are here to capture you!” But Samson woke up and yanked his hair from both the loom and the fabric." 
Judges16:15 “How can you say, ‘I love you,’ ” pouted Delilah, “and yet you don’t tell me your secrets? You’ve tricked me three times now, and you still haven’t told me what makes you so strong!”" 
Judges16:16 She tormented him day after day until he was sick to death of her nagging. 
Judges16:17 Finally, he confessed to her everything: “I’ve never had my hair cut, because my parents dedicated me to God from birth. If anyone cuts my hair, my power will leave me, and I’ll become as weak as anyone else.”" 
Judges16:18 When Delilah realized he had finally disclosed his secret, she sent for the Philistine rulers. “Come quickly!” she said. “He’s finally told me his secret!” So the Philistine rulers returned with the bribe money in their hands." 
Judges16:19 Delilah lulled Samson to sleep with his head in her lap. Then she called in a barber to cut off the seven locks of his hair. In this way she weakened him, and his strength drained from him." 
Judges16:20 Then she cried out, “Samson! The Philistines have come to capture you!” He woke up and thought, “I’ll do the same as before and shake myself free.” But he didn’t realize that Yahweh had turned away from him." 
Judges16:21 So the Philistines captured him and gouged out his eyes. They took him down to Gaza, where they bound him with bronze chains and forced him to grind grain in the prison." 
Judges16:22 But before long, his hair began to grow back." 
Judges16:23 One day, the Philistine tyrants celebrated a great festival to offer extravagant sacrifices to their god, Dagon. They praised Dagon, saying, “Our god has given us victory! Dagon has subdued our strong enemy Samson!”" 
Judges16:24 When the people saw their idol, they too joined in the praises, saying, “Our god has delivered our enemy to us! The one who devastated our country and piled our corpses high!”" 
Judges16:25 By now, the people were getting drunk and demanded, “Bring out Samson and let him dance for us!” So he was brought from the prison to amuse them, and they displayed him between the main pillars that supported their temple." 
Judges16:26 Blind Samson said to the young servant who was leading him by the hand, “Let go of me and let me feel the pillars that hold up the temple. I want to lean against them.”" 
Judges16:27 The temple was completely packed with people. All the Philistine rulers were there, and there were some three thousand men and women in the balcony watching as Samson provided them some amusement." 
Judges16:28 Then Samson prayed to Yahweh, “Lord Yahweh, please remember me again. O God, impart your strength to me just one more time. With one blow let me take revenge on the Philistines for gouging out my eyes.”" 
Judges16:29 Then Samson reached toward the two center pillars that held up the temple, his left hand on one and his right hand on the other, and he prayed, “Let me die with the Philistines.” Then with all his might, with both hands he pushed against the pillars, and the temple came crashing down on the Philistine rulers and all the people. So Samson killed more enemies through his death than in his entire lifetime." 
Judges16:30  
Judges16:31 Then his brothers and entire family went down to Gaza to get his body. They brought him back home and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol, next to his father, Manoah. Samson had led Israel for twenty years." 
Judges17:1 There was a man named Micah from the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges17:1 There was a man named Micah from the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges17:2 He said to his mother, “When someone stole your eleven hundred shekels of silver, I overheard you speak a curse over the thief. Well, it turns out, I have the money. I’m the one who took it. Here—I’m bringing it back.” Immediately, his mother, wanting to revoke her curse, said: “O my son! May Yahweh bless you!”" 
Judges17:3 So he returned the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, but she said to him, “I give it back to you, for I solemnly dedicate this silver to Yahweh for my son to make a carved image, an idol covered with silver.”" 
Judges17:4 So from the silver he returned to his mother, she took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to a silversmith, who molded them into an idol and overlaid the idol with silver. Micah kept the idol in his house." 
Judges17:4 So from the silver he returned to his mother, she took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to a silversmith, who molded them into an idol and overlaid the idol with silver. Micah kept the idol in his house." 
Judges17:5 Now Micah had a shrine, and he made some idols and a counterfeit ephod and ordained one of his sons as his priest." 
Judges17:5 Now Micah had a shrine, and he made some idols and a counterfeit ephod and ordained one of his sons as his priest." 
Judges17:6 In those days, Israel had no king. People did whatever they wanted to do." 
Judges17:7 At the same time, there was a young man from the priestly tribe of Levi living in Bethlehem in Judah." 
Judges17:8 He left there to search for another place to live. On his journey, he came to Micah’s house in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges17:8 He left there to search for another place to live. On his journey, he came to Micah’s house in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges17:9 Micah asked him, “Where are you from?” “I’m a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah,” he said, “and I’m looking for a place to live.”" 
Judges17:9 Micah asked him, “Where are you from?” “I’m a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah,” he said, “and I’m looking for a place to live.”" 
Judges17:10 “Live here with me,” Micah said to him. “Be my father and priest, and I’ll pay you ten shekels of silver a year and provide your clothes and your food.”" 
Judges17:10 “Live here with me,” Micah said to him. “Be my father and priest, and I’ll pay you ten shekels of silver a year and provide your clothes and your food.”" 
Judges17:11 So the Levite agreed to move in with him and the young man became like one of his sons. 
Judges17:12 Then Micah ordained the young Levite as his priest, and he lived in his house." 
Judges17:12 Then Micah ordained the young Levite as his priest, and he lived in his house." 
Judges17:13 And Micah declared, “Now I know that Yahweh will bless me and prosper me, since a Levite now serves as my priest.”" 
Judges17:13 And Micah declared, “Now I know that Yahweh will bless me and prosper me, since a Levite now serves as my priest.”" 
Judges18:1 In those days there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan sought a territory to settle in. They still had no place to call their own among the tribes of Israel." 
Judges18:2 So the Danites sent out from Zorah and from Eshtaol five of their valiant men to spy out the land, telling them, “Go, explore the land.” When they advanced to the hill country of Ephraim, they got as far as Micah’s house and camped near there." 
Judges18:2 So the Danites sent out from Zorah and from Eshtaol five of their valiant men to spy out the land, telling them, “Go, explore the land.” When they advanced to the hill country of Ephraim, they got as far as Micah’s house and camped near there." 
Judges18:3 When they approached Micah’s house, they recognized the voice of the young Levite, so they went over to him and asked, “Why are you here? Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place?”" 
Judges18:3 When they approached Micah’s house, they recognized the voice of the young Levite, so they went over to him and asked, “Why are you here? Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place?”" 
Judges18:4 He replied, “Micah helped me. He hired me, and I’ve become his priest.”" 
Judges18:4 He replied, “Micah helped me. He hired me, and I’ve become his priest.”" 
Judges18:5 Then they said to him, “Good! Please pray to God for us and find out if our mission will succeed.”" 
Judges18:6 The priest replied, “You have nothing to worry about. The eyes of Yahweh are watching over your mission. You will succeed.”" 
Judges18:7 So the five spies went northward and came to Laish. They observed that the people were wealthy and living in security, after the manner of the Sidonians. Their quiet and carefree community lacked nothing. Furthermore, they lived far from the Sidonians and had no dealings with anyone, leaving them defenseless." 
Judges18:8 When the spies returned to Zorah and Eshtaol from their expedition, they were asked, “What’s your report?”" 
Judges18:9 “Come on, let’s do this!” they replied. “Listen, we’ve seen the land, and it’s very good. Don’t just sit here wasting time; let’s go quickly and invade the land to conquer and possess it." 
Judges18:10 When we arrive, we will encounter an unsuspecting people. The land is wide open and fruitful. God has indeed given it into your hand!”" 
Judges18:11 So six hundred Danites, fully armed for war, set out from Zorah and Eshtaol." 
Judges18:12 They went up and camped west of Kiriath Jearim in Judah. (To this day that place is called The Camp of Dan.) 
Judges18:13 From there they passed through the hill country of Ephraim until they arrived at the house of Micah. 
Judges18:13 From there they passed through the hill country of Ephraim until they arrived at the house of Micah. 
Judges18:14 Then the five men who had explored the region of Laish remarked to their comrades, “Did you know there’s an ephod somewhere in these houses, and other idols and an idol overlaid with silver? So decide what you’ll do about it.”" 
Judges18:15 So they stopped there and came to Micah’s house where the young Levite lived, and they greeted him." 
Judges18:15 So they stopped there and came to Micah’s house where the young Levite lived, and they greeted him." 
Judges18:16 While the six hundred fully armed Danites stationed themselves by the entrance of the gate," 
Judges18:17 the five spies proceeded to enter and take the idol overlaid with silver, the ephod, and the other idols. Now the priest was standing with the six hundred fully armed men at the entrance of the gate." 
Judges18:18 When he saw the men going into Micah’s house to take the idol overlaid with silver, the ephod, and the other idols, the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”" 
Judges18:18 When he saw the men going into Micah’s house to take the idol overlaid with silver, the ephod, and the other idols, the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”" 
Judges18:19 They said to him, “Be quiet! Don’t say a word, just come with us and be our priest and a father to us all. Isn’t it better for you to be a priest representing an entire tribe of Israel rather than the house of only one man?”" 
Judges18:20 The offer pleased the priest and he accepted. He took all the idols and the ephod and joined the Danites. 
Judges18:21 They resumed their journey with their children, their livestock, and their possessions going in front of them." 
Judges18:22 When they had traveled a considerable distance from Micah’s home, Micah and his neighbors gathered and chased the Danites until they caught up with them." 
Judges18:22 When they had traveled a considerable distance from Micah’s home, Micah and his neighbors gathered and chased the Danites until they caught up with them." 
Judges18:23 They shouted at the Danites, who turned around and answered Micah, “What’s your problem? Why have you come against us with such a company?”" 
Judges18:23 They shouted at the Danites, who turned around and answered Micah, “What’s your problem? Why have you come against us with such a company?”" 
Judges18:24 He replied, “Why did you take the gods that I made, kidnap my priest, and march off? What’s left for me now? How dare you ask me, ‘What’s my problem?’ ”" 
Judges18:25 The Danites retorted, “We don’t want to hear any more of your complaints lest some of our hot-tempered men here attack and kill you, your friends, and your household.”" 
Judges18:26 So the Danites went their way. When Micah realized that he was outnumbered, he turned around and went back home." 
Judges18:26 So the Danites went their way. When Micah realized that he was outnumbered, he turned around and went back home." 
Judges18:27 The Danites, Micah’s priest, and all that Micah had made, came to Laish, a city of quiet and unsuspecting people. They slaughtered them and burned down their city." 
Judges18:27 The Danites, Micah’s priest, and all that Micah had made, came to Laish, a city of quiet and unsuspecting people. They slaughtered them and burned down their city." 
Judges18:28 No one came to their rescue, because Laish was far from Sidon and they had no dealings with Aram. Laish was in the valley that belonged to Beth Rehob. The Danites rebuilt the city and lived in it." 
Judges18:29 Although the city used to be called Laish, they named the city Dan after their ancestor Dan the Israelite." 
Judges18:30 The Danites erected their own idol to worship. Jonathan son of Gershom, son of Moses, and his sons served as priests to the tribe of the Danites until the time the nation went into captivity." 
Judges18:31 So they enshrined the idol Micah had made, and they made it their own even though the proper house of God stood at Shiloh." 
Judges18:31 So they enshrined the idol Micah had made, and they made it their own even though the proper house of God stood at Shiloh." 
Judges19:1 These were the days when there was no king ruling in Israel. Now there was a Levite who lived in the remote hill country of Ephraim. He took as his mistress a woman from Bethlehem in Judah," 
Judges19:2 but she eventually was unfaithful. She deserted him and returned to her father’s house in Bethlehem where she stayed for four months. 
Judges19:3 The Levite set out with his servant and a pair of donkeys to find her, win back her heart, and try to persuade her to return home with him. She received him into her father’s house, and when the girl’s father saw him, he received him warmly." 
Judges19:4 His father-in-law, the girl’s father, pressed him to stay, so the Levite stayed with him three days, and they ate and drank together." 
Judges19:5 On the fourth day, early in the morning, he started to leave, but his father-in-law, the girl’s father, insisted, “Eat something first to give you strength for your journey; then you can leave.”" 
Judges19:6 After the two of them sat down and had breakfast together, the girl’s father said to the Levite, “You might as well stay overnight and enjoy yourself.”" 
Judges19:7 The Levite started to leave, but his mistress’ father kept urging him to stay until he turned back and spent another night there." 
Judges19:8 Early in the morning of the fifth day, he was about to leave when the girl’s father said, “Come, have breakfast.” They ate together and lingered there until past noon." 
Judges19:9 Then the Levite, his mistress, and his attendant started to leave. But his mistress’ father said to him, “Look, the day is almost gone; stay another night here and enjoy yourself. Tomorrow, you can start early on your journey and head for home.”" 
Judges19:10 But the Levite refused; he and his two donkeys, his servant, and his mistress set out and traveled as far as the vicinity of Jebus—that is, Jerusalem." 
Judges19:11 Late in the day, they were near Jebus, and the servant said to his master, “Let’s go into this town of the Jebusites and spend the night there.”" 
Judges19:12 His master said to him, “ No. They are not of Israel. We will not enter a town of foreigners. We will go on to Gibeah." 
Judges19:13 Come,” he said to his attendant, “we’ll go to another town and spend the night either in Gibeah or in Ramah.”" 
Judges19:14 So they traveled on, and as the sun set, they were near Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin." 
Judges19:15 They turned off there and entered Gibeah to spend the night. The Levite, his servant, and his mistress sat down in the town square, but nobody invited them indoors to spend the night." 
Judges19:16 In the evening, an old man came into town from working in his field. This man was from the hill country of Ephraim and resided at Gibeah, where the townspeople were of the tribe of Benjamin." 
Judges19:17 He happened to see the travelers sitting in the town square. The old man inquired, “Where do you come from? And where are you headed?”" 
Judges19:18 The Levite replied, “We’re just passing through. We’re traveling from Bethlehem in Judah to the other end of the hill country of Ephraim, where I live. I just made a journey to Bethlehem of Judah, and now we’re on our way to the House of Yahweh, but nobody has offered us hospitality." 
Judges19:19 We have plenty of straw and feed for our donkeys, and bread and wine for me and the woman and for the attendant with us. All we need is a roof over our heads; we lack nothing.”" 
Judges19:20 “Rest easy,” said the old man. “I’ll take care of all your needs. You won’t need to spend the night in the square.”" 
Judges19:21 So the old man took them into his house. He prepared fodder for the donkeys; then they washed their feet, and they ate and drank together." 
Judges19:22 They were enjoying themselves when suddenly some perverted and depraved men of the town surrounded the house and pounded on the door. They called to the aged owner of the house, “Bring out the man you invited into your house so that we can have sex with him.”" 
Judges19:23 The owner of the house went out to reason with them. “Please, my friends,” he said. “Don’t commit such a wicked act. This man is my guest! Do not perpetrate this outrage." 
Judges19:24 Look, here are the man’s mistress and my virgin daughter—let me bring them out to you. Do what you wish with them. Have your pleasure with them, but don’t do such an outrageous thing to this man.”" 
Judges19:25 But the men refused to listen to him, so the Levite seized his mistress and pushed her out to them. They raped her repeatedly all night until morning and finally let her go when dawn broke." 
Judges19:26 At sunrise the woman staggered back to the house where her master had spent the night and collapsed at the entrance of the man’s house. 
Judges19:27 When the Levite arose in the morning, he opened the doors of the house to start on his journey, and he saw his mistress lying at the entrance of the house with her hands on the threshold." 
Judges19:28 “Get up,” he said to her, “it’s time to go.” But there was no response, for she was dead. The man placed her body on the donkey and set out for home." 
Judges19:29 When he arrived home, he took a sword, cut the corpse of his mistress limb by limb into twelve pieces, and sent them, one for each tribe, throughout Israel." 
Judges19:30 And everyone who saw this horrible display, cried out, “Never have we seen such brutality take place from the day we came up from the land of Egypt to this day. We need to decide what we should do about this!”" 
Judges20:1 The Israelites were united as one man from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south, including those living in Gilead on the other side of the Jordan. Everyone assembled together before Yahweh at Mizpah." 
Judges20:2 All the leaders of all the people from the tribes of Israel presented themselves in the assembly of God’s people, four hundred thousand fighting men armed with swords." 
Judges20:3 The Benjamites heard that the Israelites had assembled at Mizpah. The Israelites said to them, “Tell us, how did this evil rape and murder happen?”" 
Judges20:4 The Levite, whose mistress had been murdered, replied, “My mistress and I stopped in Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin to spend the night." 
Judges20:5 That night, the depraved men of Gibeah came after me to harm me, gathering around the house in the night where I was staying. They intended to kill me, but instead, they raped my mistress, and she died." 
Judges20:6 This deliberate, outrageous act of depravity was committed in Israel! Therefore, I took her body and cut it in pieces and sent the pieces throughout every part of Israel." 
Judges20:7 Now you Israelites must decide on a response! Let’s do something about it here and now!” 
Judges20:8 Then all the people stood in unison and declared, “None of us will go back to our cities or return to our homes." 
Judges20:9 This is what we’re going to do to Gibeah: We’ll cast lots to choose who will fight against it. 
Judges20:10 And we’ll take a tenth of the men of our tribes of Israel to carry supplies for our forces. When our army arrives at Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin, we’ll give them what they deserve for the outrageous, disgraceful act they committed in Israel.”" 
Judges20:11 So all the men of Israel united as one man to come against Gibeah. 
Judges20:12 The Israelite tribes sent couriers throughout the tribe of Benjamin, saying, “What is this brutal crime that you have done?" 
Judges20:13 We demand that you surrender the depraved perverts from Gibeah who took part in this evil act. We’ll put them to death and purge the evil out of Israel.” But the Benjamites refused to yield to the demands of their brothers the Israelites. 
Judges20:14 Instead, the Benjamites gathered warriors from all their towns to come to Gibeah and fight their brothers, the Israelites." 
Judges20:15 On that day, the Benjamites gathered a force from their towns of twenty-six thousand armed men, not including the seven hundred elite soldiers of Gibeah." 
Judges20:16 Among Benjamin’s elite troops, seven hundred were left-handed, and each of them could sling a rock and hit a target within a hairbreadth without missing." 
Judges20:17 The tribes of Israel had four hundred thousand experienced soldiers armed with swords, not counting Benjamin’s warriors." 
Judges20:18 Before the battle, the armies of Israel went to the house of God to seek counsel from God. The Israelites inquired, “Which tribe gets to go first to battle the Benjamites?” Yahweh answered, “Judah will go first.”" 
Judges20:19 The Israelites got up the next morning and encamped near Gibeah. 
Judges20:20 The men of Israel took up battle positions against the Benjamites at Gibeah," 
Judges20:21 but the Benjamites rushed out of the city, and slaughtered twenty-two thousand Israelites." 
Judges20:22 The men of Israel encouraged one another and resumed their battle positions where they had lined up the first day. 
Judges20:23 The Israelites wept before Yahweh until evening, and they inquired of Yahweh, “Should we go out again to battle with our brothers the Benjamites?” And Yahweh answered, “Yes, go back into the battle!”" 
Judges20:24 The next day, the Israelites advanced toward the Benjamites." 
Judges20:25 When Benjamin marched out from Gibeah to engage them, they struck down another eighteen thousand Israelite swordsmen." 
Judges20:26 After losing again, the entire Israelite army went up to the house of God, and they sat there fasting and weeping before Yahweh all day until evening and presented burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh." 
Judges20:27 The Israelites inquired of Yahweh at Shiloh, for the ark of God’s covenant was there in those days." 
Judges20:28 Phineas son of Eleazer, son of Aaron, ministered there before the ark. He inquired of Yahweh, saying, “Should we resume our battle with our brothers, the Benjamites? Or should we quit?” Yahweh answered, “Attack! For tomorrow I will give you the victory!”" 
Judges20:29 So Israel set ambushes all around Gibeah. 
Judges20:30 On the third day, one company of Israelites advanced against the Benjamites, deploying against Gibeah as they had before." 
Judges20:31 This tactic drew the Benjamites out of the city to attack the advancing Israelite army, leaving the city unguarded. They began to inflict casualties on the Israelites as before. There they killed about thirty men of Israel." 
Judges20:32 The Benjamites boasted, “We are defeating them just as we did before!” But when the Benjamites had taken the bait, the Israelites said, “Retreat, and draw them away from the city to the main roads.”" 
Judges20:33 Every Israelite rose from his position and took their assumed positions at Baal-Tamar. Then the Israelites who were hiding in ambush jumped up from their positions west of Gibeah. 
Judges20:34 Ten thousand elite soldiers from all over Israel made their direct assault on Gibeah. The fighting was fierce. And the Benjamites had no clue that disaster was at their doorstep. 
Judges20:35 On that day, Yahweh struck down the Benjamites before Israel. The Israelites slaughtered 25,100 swordsmen of Benjamin." 
Judges20:36 Then the Benjamites realized that they were defeated. The Israelites had moved back because they were depending on the surprise attack they had set up near Gibeah. 
Judges20:37 The men of Israel who had been waiting in ambush made a mad dash for Gibeah, attacked the city, and killed its inhabitants." 
Judges20:38 The Israelites’ strategy was to send up a smoke signal from the city once they had sacked it," 
Judges20:39 and when the men of Israel saw the smoke signal, they would turn and rejoin the battle. When the Benjamites had inflicted about thirty casualties on the men of Israel, they said, “Look, we are defeating them as we did in the first battle!”" 
Judges20:40 But when the smoke signal began to go up from the city, the Benjamites looked behind them and saw the whole city going up in smoke!" 
Judges20:41 When the men of Israel turned back, the men of Benjamin saw that disaster had come upon them, and they panicked." 
Judges20:42 So they fled toward the wilderness, retreating from the Israelites, but the Israelites overtook them and killed them there." 
Judges20:43 Surrounding the Benjamites, the Israelites chased them and easily overran them in the area east of Gibeah." 
Judges20:44 Eighteen thousand Benjamites died, all of them valiant fighters." 
Judges20:45 As they turned and fled in the wilderness to Rimmon Rock, the Israelites picked off another five thousand Benjamites on the main roads. They chased them as far as Gidom, killing two thousand more there." 
Judges20:46 That day, a total of twenty-five thousand sword-bearing Benjamites fell, all of them valiant fighters." 
Judges20:47 But six hundred men who had fled to the wilderness camped at Rimmon Rock and remained there for four months. 
Judges20:48 The men of Israel went back to the Benjamites and slaughtered every living thing in every town—men and beasts and all that were found, and they burned down every town they came across." 
Judges21:1 The men of Israel had bound themselves by an oath at Mizpah: “Not one of us will give his daughter in marriage to a Benjamite.” 
Judges21:2 And then the people came to Bethel and sat until evening before God, and they raised their voice with groaning and great weeping." 
Judges21:3 They said, “ Yahweh, the true God of Israel, we have lost one of our own tribes today. Why has this happened to Israel?”" 
Judges21:4 When the next day dawned, the people got up early, built an altar there, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings." 
Judges21:5 Then the Israelites asked one another, “Which tribe of Israel failed to appear in our assembly before Yahweh?” Under the terms of their solemn oath, whoever did not come before Yahweh at Mizpah should be put to death." 
Judges21:6 Even so, the Israelites had compassion for their brothers of the tribe of Benjamin and were grieved deeply over their loss. They lamented, “One of our tribes has been eliminated from Israel this day." 
Judges21:7 How can we provide wives for the few survivors since we have sworn by Yahweh that we will not give any of our daughters as wives for them?” 
Judges21:8 Then they inquired, “Were there any from the tribes of Israel who did not come up before Yahweh at Mizpah?” They found out that no one from Jabesh-Gilead had come to the assembly." 
Judges21:9 When the roll was called among the people, not one of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead was there." 
Judges21:10 So the people sent twelve thousand soldiers with the command: “Go to the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead and kill them with the sword, including the women and children." 
Judges21:11 This is what you are to do: exterminate every man and every woman who is not a virgin.” 
Judges21:12 And they found four hundred unmarried young virgins among those living in Jabesh-Gilead. They seized them and brought them to the camp at Shiloh in the land of Canaan. 
Judges21:13 Then the whole congregation sent word to the Benjamites at Rimmon Rock and offered them peace. 
Judges21:14 The Benjamites returned, and the Israelites presented the young women they had spared at Jabesh-Gilead. But they were not a sufficient number of wives for them all." 
Judges21:15 The people were remorseful and had compassion on the tribe of Benjamin because Yahweh had taken out a tribe of Israel. 
Judges21:16 The elders of the tribes said, “Where are we to find wives for the survivors of Benjamin since there are no more women left in their tribe?”" 
Judges21:17 And they said, “There must be heirs for the survivors of Benjamin to prevent the tribe from being wiped out from Israel." 
Judges21:18 Yet we cannot give them any of our daughters as wives.” For the Israelites had sworn, “A curse will rest on anyone who gives a wife to a Benjamite.”" 
Judges21:19 So they said, “Look, Yahweh ’s yearly festival is taking place at Shiloh, just north of Bethel, and east of the main road that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and a little south of Lebonah.”" 
Judges21:20 And they instructed the Benjamites, “Go and hide in the vineyards." 
Judges21:21 Watch for the young women of Shiloh to come out for their dances. When they come out of the vineyards, grab one of the young women of Shiloh to be your wife. Then go and live in your tribal land of Benjamin." 
Judges21:22 If their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, we’ll tell them, ‘Do us this favor, please. Grant us permission for the Benjamites to keep them as wives because in battle we didn’t seize them from you. And since you didn’t give them to us, you’re not guilty of breaking your oath.’ ”" 
Judges21:23 So the Benjamites took as many wives as there were men from among the dancers, and they carried them away. Then they returned to their own territory and rebuilt towns to live in." 
Judges21:24 The Israelites dispersed by tribes and families, and they went out from there to their own territories." 
Judges21:25 In those days, Israel had no king, and everyone did whatever they wanted to do." 
Ruth1:1 During the era when champion-deliverers ruled in Israel, a severe famine overtook the land. Elimelech, a man of importance, left Bethlehem and immigrated to the country of Moab. He took with him his wife Naomi and their two sons, Mahlon and Chilion. They belonged to the clan of Ephrath from Bethlehem in Judah. While residing in Moab," 
Ruth1:2  
Ruth1:3 Elimelech died and left his widow Naomi alone with her two sons. 
Ruth1:4 The two sons both married Moabite women, Orpah and Ruth. About ten years later," 
Ruth1:5 Mahlon and Chilion also died and left Naomi all alone without husband or sons. 
Ruth1:6 Sometime later, Naomi heard that Yahweh had visited his people and blessed them with an abundant harvest; so she decided to leave Moab with her daughters-in-law." 
Ruth1:7 With Orpah and Ruth at her side, Naomi began her journey to return to the land of Judah." 
Ruth1:8 But soon Naomi said to them, “Each of you, go back to your mother’s home. May Yahweh show his loyal love and kindness to you—the same loyal love and kindness you’ve shown to me and to those who have died." 
Ruth1:9 And may Yahweh give you another husband and cause you to find rest in a happy home.” Then Naomi tenderly embraced Orpah and Ruth and kissed them goodbye, but they wailed and sobbed." 
Ruth1:10 Through their tears, they said to her, “No! We want to be with you and go with you to your people.”" 
Ruth1:11 “My daughters, you must go back,” Naomi answered. “Why do you want to come with me? Do you think I could have sons again to give you new husbands?" 
Ruth1:12 Turn around my daughters and go back home, for I’m too old to marry again. Even if I thought there was still hope for me, and married today and gave birth to sons," 
Ruth1:13 would you wait until they had grown up? Should you live for so many years without husbands? No, my daughters, you must not return with me. My life is too bitter for you to share it with me because Yahweh has brought calamity to my life!”" 
Ruth1:14 When they heard Naomi’s words, Orpah and Ruth wailed and sobbed again. Then Orpah embraced and kissed her mother-in-law goodbye and went back home, but Ruth clung tightly to Naomi and refused to let go of her." 
Ruth1:15 Naomi said, “Ruth, listen. Your sister-in-law is going back to Moab to her people and to her gods. Now go with her.”" 
Ruth1:16 But tearfully, Ruth insisted, “Please don’t ask me again to leave you! I want to go with you and stay with you. Wherever you go, I will go; wherever you live, I will live. Your people will now be my people, and your God will now be my God." 
Ruth1:17 Wherever you die, I will die there, too; that’s where your people will bury me— next to you. Nothing but death itself will separate me from you, so help me God!”" 
Ruth1:18 When Naomi realized that Ruth’s heart was set on going with her, she said nothing more." 
Ruth1:19 Naomi and Ruth traveled together from Moab until they came to Bethlehem. The entire town was buzzing when they heard they had arrived! Astounded, the women of the town said to one another, “Is this really Naomi, who left us so long ago?”" 
Ruth1:20 “Please don’t call me Naomi anymore,” she insisted. “Instead, call me Marah, because Almighty God has dealt me a bitter blow." 
Ruth1:21 When I left here, my heart was full and content with my family, but Yahweh has brought me back empty and destitute. Why call me by my name, ‘Pleasant,’ when Yahweh has opposed me, and Almighty God has brought me so much trouble?”" 
Ruth1:22 So Naomi returned to her village with Ruth, her Moabite daughter-in-law. They arrived in Bethlehem just as the barley harvest had begun." 
Ruth2:1 Naomi’s deceased husband, Elimelech, had a very wealthy relative, an honorable and prominent man in Bethlehem named Boaz." 
Ruth2:2 One day Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, “Let me go to the fields and pick up the leftover grain. Maybe someone will be kind enough to let me gather the grain he leaves behind.” Naomi said to her, “Go, my daughter.”" 
Ruth2:3 So Ruth went to the fields to gather the grain the reapers left behind. It just so happened that she found herself working at the edges of a field belonging to Boaz of the family of Elimelech. 
Ruth2:4 At that moment, Boaz came from Bethlehem to survey his harvest. He greeted the harvesters, “May Yahweh be with you.” They replied, “May Yahweh bless you.”" 
Ruth2:5 Noticing Ruth, Boaz asked his foreman in charge of the harvesters, “Who is that young woman over there?”" 
Ruth2:6 The foreman answered, “She’s a Moabite girl who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab." 
Ruth2:7 She asked for permission to gather the grain left behind by the reapers. Except for one short break, she’s been on her feet working in the field since early this morning.”" 
Ruth2:8 Boaz walked over to Ruth and said, “Listen, my daughter, don’t leave this field to glean somewhere else. Stay here in my field and follow the young women who work for me." 
Ruth2:9 Watch my harvesters to see into which fields they go to cut grain, and follow them. When you’re thirsty, go and drink from the water jugs that the young men have filled. I’ve warned the young men not to bother you.”" 
Ruth2:10 Astounded, Ruth bowed low with her face to the ground, and said to him, “I’m a foreigner. Why have you been so kind and taken notice of me?”" 
Ruth2:11 Boaz answered, “I’ve heard all about what you’ve done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband. I know your story—how you left your father and mother and your native land and came to a people and a culture that must seem strange to you." 
Ruth2:12 May Yahweh reward you for your sacrifices, and because of what you’ve done, may you have a full and rich reward from Yahweh, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to find shelter!”" 
Ruth2:13 Ruth replied, “May I continue to find favor in your sight, kind sir. You have spoken to my heart kind and reassuring words that comfort me, even though I am not as worthy as one of your servant girls.”" 
Ruth2:14 At mealtime, Boaz said to her, “Come here and eat with us. Here is bread, and wine to dip it in.” Ruth immediately sat down with the workers. Boaz handed her some roasted grain, and she ate all she wanted until she was satisfied—she even had some left over." 
Ruth2:15 After she had returned to gather grain, Boaz instructed his young men, “Let her glean even among the standing sheaves, and don’t disgrace her." 
Ruth2:16 Pull out from the bundles some handfuls of grain and drop them on purpose for her to gather, and don’t bother her.”" 
Ruth2:17 So Ruth gathered grain in Boaz’s field until evening. When she threshed out what she had gathered, it came to more than half a bushel of barley." 
Ruth2:18 She carried it back to town and showed her mother-in-law how much she had gleaned. Then Ruth also took out the roasted grain she had saved from mealtime and shared it with Naomi. 
Ruth2:19 Her mother-in-law asked Ruth, “Where did you gather all this from? In whose field did you work? May Yahweh bless the man who showed you special attention.” She told her mother-in-law about all that happened that day, and said, “The man in whose field I gathered grain today is Boaz.”" 
Ruth2:20 Naomi said to Ruth, “ Yahweh ’s loving-kindness has not left us either through life or through death! Boaz is closely related to us. He is a kinsman-redeemer of our family. May Yahweh greatly bless Boaz!”" 
Ruth2:21 Ruth the Moabite responded, “He even said to me, ‘Stay close by my servants until they have finished all my harvest.’ ”" 
Ruth2:22 Naomi replied, “It is best, my daughter, that you stay near his young women, otherwise you’ll be alone and might be bothered in someone else’s field.”" 
Ruth2:23 So Ruth worked alongside the young women who served Boaz. She lived with her mother-in-law and gleaned in Boaz’s fields until the end of the barley and wheat harvests. 
Ruth3:1 One day, Naomi said to Ruth: “I want to see you marry so that you’ll be happy and secure." 
Ruth3:2 Now listen, a man named Boaz is our relative. You worked with his servant girls in his fields. This evening, he’ll be winnowing barley on the threshing floor." 
Ruth3:3 Now, take a bath and put on some nice perfume. Dress in your best clothes and go to the threshing floor, but don’t let him know you’re there until he’s had plenty to eat and drink." 
Ruth3:4 Watch closely to see where he lies down. Then go, uncover his feet, and lie down there. He will tell you what to do.”" 
Ruth3:5 Ruth answered, “I’ll do everything you’ve told me.”" 
Ruth3:6 That evening, Ruth went down to the threshing floor and did all her mother-in-law had told her to do." 
Ruth3:7 After his evening meal, Boaz was in a good mood. He went to lie down at the far end of the grain pile and fell fast asleep. Ruth quietly tiptoed over to him, uncovered his feet, and lay down." 
Ruth3:8 Around midnight, Boaz was startled, and he awoke. He was surprised to find a woman lying at his feet." 
Ruth3:9 “Who are you?” Boaz asked. “I am Ruth, your servant girl,” she answered. “Spread the corner of your garment over me because you are a close relative by marriage, one who is my kinsman-redeemer.”" 
Ruth3:10 Boaz said: “Dear woman, may Yahweh bless you, for this act of kindness you are showing me exceeds the kindness you have shown to Naomi. You didn’t search for a young man to marry, either rich or poor." 
Ruth3:11 My daughter, don’t worry. I promise to do everything you ask, because everyone knows you’re a brave woman of noble character." 
Ruth3:12 It’s true that I am a kinsman-redeemer, but you have a closer kinsman-redeemer than I." 
Ruth3:13 Stay here tonight, and I will protect you. In the morning, we’ll see if he’s willing to redeem you. If he does, good; let him. But if he refuses to redeem you, then I promise, as surely as Yahweh lives, I will. Sleep here until morning.”" 
Ruth3:14 So Ruth stayed near Boaz’s feet that night. She awoke before it was light enough for anyone to recognize her. Boaz thought, “No one must know that a woman visited me at the threshing floor.”" 
Ruth3:15 As Ruth was about to leave, Boaz said to her, “Here, bring me the cloak you’re wearing and hold it open.” As she held it open, Boaz poured six measures of barley into it. He then helped place it on her head to carry, and she went back to Bethlehem." 
Ruth3:16 When Ruth returned to her mother-in-law, Naomi asked her, “How did it go, my dear daughter? How did Boaz receive you? ” Ruth told Naomi everything that he did for her." 
Ruth3:17 She added, “Boaz gave me all this barley, saying, ‘You must not go home empty-handed without a gift for your mother-in-law.’ ”" 
Ruth3:18 Naomi answered, “My daughter, wait here until you see what happens. Boaz will not rest until he has finished doing what he promised he would do today.”" 
Ruth4:1 No sooner had Boaz gone up to the city gate and sat down when the kinsman-redeemer of whom Boaz had spoken came passing by. Boaz called to him, “Come over here, friend; sit down with me. We have some business to attend to.” So the man went over and sat down." 
Ruth4:2 Then Boaz invited ten men of the city council and said, “ Please, sit down here with us.” After they were seated," 
Ruth4:3 Boaz turned to the kinsman-redeemer and said, “ Sir, Naomi has returned from the country of Moab, and she’s selling the piece of property that belonged to our relative Elimelech." 
Ruth4:4 So I thought you ought to know about it. Buy it if you want. We can make it official in the presence of those here and in the presence of the elders of our people. As the kinsman-redeemer, you have the first right of refusal. Redeem it if you choose to, but if not, tell me so I will know, as I am next in line.” The man replied, “I’ll redeem it.”" 
Ruth4:5 Then Boaz added, “The day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth the Moabite, the widow of the dead. Therefore, it will be your responsibility to father a child in order to maintain the dead man’s name on his inheritance.”" 
Ruth4:6 At this, the kinsman-redeemer balked and said, “In that case, I’m not able to redeem it for myself without risking my own inheritance. Take my purchase option of redemption yourself, for I can’t do it.”" 
Ruth4:7 (At that time in Israel, in order to finalize a transaction concerning redeeming and transferring property, a man would customarily remove a sandal and give it to the other party, making the contract legally binding.)" 
Ruth4:8 So when the kinsman-redeemer said to Boaz, “Take my purchase option of redemption for yourself,” he took off his sandal and gave it to Boaz." 
Ruth4:9 Then Boaz turned to the elders and announced publicly, “Today, you are witnesses that I have purchased from the hand of Naomi all that belonged to Elimelech and all that belonged to Chilion and Mahlon." 
Ruth4:10 I have also acquired Ruth the Moabite, Mahlon’s widow, to be my wife. I will raise children with her who will maintain the dead man’s name on his inheritance so that the name of the dead may not be cut off from his village and from his family line. Today, you are witnesses of this transaction.”" 
Ruth4:11 Then all the elders and all the people who were at the gate said: “We are witnesses. May Yahweh make the woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, both of whom built up the house of Israel. May you become famous in Bethlehem! May you become very prosperous!" 
Ruth4:12 And may Yahweh give you children by this young woman, and through them, may your family be like the family of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah!”" 
Ruth4:13 So Boaz and Ruth married, and they became one as husband and wife. Yahweh opened Ruth’s womb, and she bore a son." 
Ruth4:14 Then the women of Bethlehem blessed Naomi: “Praise Yahweh, who never abandoned you nor withheld from you a kinsman-redeemer! And may his name be famous in Israel!" 
Ruth4:15 May this child renew your life and sustain you in your old age! May your daughter-in-law, who loves you dearly, be more to you than seven sons could ever be, for she has given you a wonderful grandchild!”" 
Ruth4:16 Then Naomi took her grandson and cuddled him in her arms and cared for him as if he were her own. 
Ruth4:17 The women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, “At last, Naomi has a son!” They named him Obed, and he became the father of Jesse, the father of David." 
Ruth4:18 Now these are the descendants of Perez: Perez became the father of Hezron," 
Ruth4:19 Hezron the father of Ram, Ram the father of Amminadab," 
Ruth4:20 Amminadab the father of Nahshon, Nahshon the father of Salmon," 
Ruth4:21 Salmon the father of Boaz, Boaz the father of Obed," 
Ruth4:22 Obed the father of Jesse, who had a famous son, King David." 
Psalms1:1 What delight comes to the one who follows God’s ways! He won’t walk in step with the wicked, nor share the sinner’s way, nor be found sitting in the scorner’s seat." 
Psalms1:2 His passion is to remain true to the Word of “I AM,” meditating day and night on the true revelation of light." 
Psalms1:3 He will be standing firm like a flourishing tree planted by God’s design, deeply rooted by the brooks of bliss, bearing fruit in every season of life. He is never dry, never fainting, ever blessed, ever prosperous." 
Psalms1:4 But how different are the wicked. They are like chaff blown away by the wind. 
Psalms1:5 The wicked will not endure the day of judgment, for God will not defend them. Nothing they do will succeed or endure for long, for they have no part with those who walk in truth." 
Psalms1:6 But how different it is for the righteous! The Lord embraces their paths as they move forward while the way of the wicked leads only to doom. 
Psalms2:1 How dare the nations plan a rebellion. Their foolish plots are futile! 
Psalms2:2 Look at how the power brokers of the world rise up to hold their summit as the rulers scheme and confer together against Yahweh and his Anointed King, saying:" 
Psalms2:3 “Let’s come together and break away from the Creator. Once and for all let’s cast off these controlling chains of God and his Christ!” 
Psalms2:4 God-Enthroned merely laughs at them; the Sovereign One mocks their madness! 
Psalms2:5 Then with the fierceness of his fiery anger, he settles the issue and terrifies them to death with these words:" 
Psalms2:6 “I myself have poured out my King on Zion, my holy mountain.”" 
Psalms2:7 “I will reveal the eternal purpose of God. For he has decreed over me, ‘You are my favored Son. And as your Father I have crowned you as my King Eternal. Today I became your Father." 
Psalms2:8 Ask me to give you the nations and I will do it, and they shall become your legacy. Your domain will stretch to the ends of the earth." 
Psalms2:9 And you will shepherd them with unlimited authority, crushing their rebellion as an iron rod smashes jars of clay!’ ”" 
Psalms2:10 “Listen to me, all you rebel kings and all you upstart judges of the earth. Learn your lesson while there’s still time." 
Psalms2:11 Serve and worship the awe-inspiring God. Recognize his greatness and bow before him, trembling with reverence in his presence." 
Psalms2:12 Fall facedown before him and kiss the Son before his anger is roused against you. Remember that his wrath can be quickly kindled! But many blessings are waiting for all who turn aside to hide themselves in him!” 
Psalms3:1 Lord, I have so many enemies, so many who are against me." 
Psalms3:2 Listen to how they whisper their slander against me, saying: “Look! He’s hopeless! Even God can’t save him from this!”" 
Psalms3:3 But in the depths of my heart I truly know that you, Yahweh, have become my Shield; You take me and surround me with yourself. Your glory covers me continually. You lift high my head." 
Psalms3:4 I have cried out to you, Yahweh, from your holy presence. You send me a Father’s help." 
Psalms3:5 So now I’ll lie down and sleep like a baby— then I’ll awake in safety, for you surround me with your glory." 
Psalms3:6 Even though ten thousand dark powers prowl around me, I won’t be afraid." 
Psalms3:7 Rise up and help me, Yahweh! Come and save me, God! For you will slap them in the face, breaking the power of their words to harm me." 
Psalms3:8 For the Lord alone is my Savior. What a feast of favor and bliss he gives his people! 
Psalms4:1 God, you are my righteousness, my Champion Defender. Answer me when I cry for help! Whenever I was in distress, you enlarged me. I’m being squeezed again—I need your kindness right away! Grant me your grace, hear my prayer, and set me free!" 
Psalms4:2 Listen to me, you elite among men: How long will you defame my honor and drag it down into shame? Will you ever stop insulting me? How long will you set your heart on shadows, chasing your lies and delusions?" 
Psalms4:3 May we never forget that Yahweh works wonders for every one of his devoted lovers. And this is how I know that he will answer my every prayer. 
Psalms4:4 Tremble in awe before the Lord, and do not sin against him. Be still upon your bed and search your heart before him." 
Psalms4:5 Bring to Yahweh the sacrifice of righteousness and put your trust in him. 
Psalms4:6 Lord, prove them wrong when they say, “God can’t help you!” Let the light of your radiant face break through and shine upon us!" 
Psalms4:7 The intense pleasure you give me surpasses the gladness of harvest time, even more than when the harvesters gaze upon their ripened grain and when their new wine overflows." 
Psalms4:8 Now, because of you, Lord, I will lie down in peace and sleep comes at once, for no matter what happens, I will live unafraid!" 
Psalms5:1 Listen, Yahweh, to my passionate prayer! Can’t you hear my groaning?" 
Psalms5:2 Don’t you hear how I’m crying out to you? My King and my God, consider my every word, for I am calling out to you." 
Psalms5:3 At each and every sunrise you will hear my voice as I prepare my sacrifice of prayer to you. Every morning I lay out the pieces of my life on the altar and wait for your fire to fall upon my heart. 
Psalms5:4 I know that you, God, are never pleased with lawlessness, and evil ones will never be invited into your house." 
Psalms5:5 Boasters collapse, unable to survive your scrutiny, for your hatred of evildoers is clear." 
Psalms5:6 You will make an end of all those who lie. How you hate their hypocrisy and despise all who love violence! 
Psalms5:7 But I know that you will welcome me into your house, for I am covered by your covenant of mercy and love. So I come to your sanctuary with deepest awe to bow in worship and adore you." 
Psalms5:8 Yahweh, lead me in the pathways of your pleasure just like you promised me you would, or else my enemies will conquer me. Smooth out your road in front of me, straight and level, so that I will know where to walk." 
Psalms5:9 Their words are unreliable. Destruction is in their hearts, drawing people into their darkness with their speeches. They are smooth-tongued deceivers, flattering with their words." 
Psalms5:10 Declare them guilty, O God! Let their own schemes be their downfall! Let the guilt of their sins collapse on top of them, for they rebel against you." 
Psalms5:11 But let them all be glad, those who turn aside to hide themselves in you. May they keep shouting for joy forever! Overshadow them in your presence as they sing and rejoice. Then every lover of your name will burst forth with endless joy." 
Psalms5:12 Lord, how wonderfully you bless the righteous. Your favor wraps around each one and covers them under your canopy of kindness and joy." 
Psalms6:1 Yahweh, don’t condemn me. Don’t punish me in your fiery anger." 
Psalms6:2 Please deal gently with me, Yahweh; show me mercy, for I’m sick and frail and weak. Heal me, Yahweh, for I’m falling apart." 
Psalms6:3 My soul is so troubled; but you, Yahweh —how long?" 
Psalms6:4 Yahweh, turn to me and rescue my life because I know your faithful love will never fail me." 
Psalms6:5 In the darkness of death who remembers your name in worship? How could I bring you praise if I’m buried in a tomb? 
Psalms6:6 I’m worn out with my weeping and groaning. Night after night I soak my pillow with tears, and flood my bed with weeping." 
Psalms6:7 My eyes of faith won’t focus anymore, for sorrow fills my heart. There are so many enemies who come against me!" 
Psalms6:8 Turn from me, all you troublemakers! For Yahweh has turned to hear the sound of my weeping." 
Psalms6:9 Yes! Yahweh my healer has heard all my pleading and has taken hold of my prayers and answered them all. 
Psalms6:10 Now it’s my enemies who have been shamed. Terror-stricken, they will turn back again, knowing the bitterness of sudden disgrace!" 
Psalms7:1 Yahweh, my God, I turn to hide my soul in you. Save me from all those who pursue and persecute me." 
Psalms7:2 There is none to deliver me but you! Don’t let my foes fall upon me like fierce lions with teeth bared. Can’t you see how they want to rip my soul to shreds? 
Psalms7:3 Yahweh, my God, if I have done evil like they say I have, and my hands are guilty," 
Psalms7:4 if I have wronged someone at peace with me, if I have betrayed a friend, repaying evil for good, or if I have unjustly harmed my enemy," 
Psalms7:5 Then let my enemy pursue and overtake me. Let them grind me into the ground. Let them take my life from me and drag my dignity through the dust! 
Psalms7:6 Yahweh, arise in your anger against the anger of my enemies. Awaken your fury and stand up for me! Execute the judgment you have decreed against them." 
Psalms7:7 All the people gather around you. Return to your place on high to preside over them. 
Psalms7:8 You are Yahweh who judges the people. Vindicate me publicly, Yahweh, and restore my honor and integrity. Declare me innocent." 
Psalms7:9 Once and for all, bring to an end the evil tactics of the wicked! Establish the cause of the righteous, for you are the righteous God, the soul searcher, who tests every heart to examine the thoughts and motives." 
Psalms7:10 God, your wraparound presence is my shield. You bring victory to all who are pure in heart." 
Psalms7:11 God, your righteousness is revealed when you judge. Because of the strength of your forgiveness, your anger does not break out every day." 
Psalms7:12 Yet if one does not repent, you will not relent to sharpen your shining sword. You have an arsenal of lethal weapons that you’ve prepared for them. You have bent and strung your bow, making your judgment-arrows shafts of burning fire." 
Psalms7:13  
Psalms7:14 Look how the wicked conceive their evil schemes. They go into labor with their lies and give birth to trouble. 
Psalms7:15 They dig a pit for others to fall into, not knowing that they will be the very ones who will fall into it." 
Psalms7:16 Every pit-digger who works to trap and harm others will be trapped by his own treachery. 
Psalms7:17 But I will give my thanks to you, Yahweh, for you make everything right in the end. I will sing my highest praise to the God of the Highest Place!" 
Psalms8:1 Yahweh, our Sovereign God, your glory streams from the heavens above, filling the earth with the majesty of your name! People everywhere see your splendor." 
Psalms8:2 You have built a stronghold by the songs of children. Strength rises up with the chorus of infants. This kind of praise has power to shut Satan’s mouth. Childlike worship will silence the madness of those who oppose you. 
Psalms8:3 Look at the splendor of your skies, your creative genius glowing in the heavens. When I gaze at your moon and your stars, mounted like jewels in their settings, I know you are the fascinating artist who fashioned it all! But I have to ask this question:" 
Psalms8:4 Why would you bother with puny, mortal man or care about human beings?" 
Psalms8:5 Yet what honor you have given to men, created only a little lower than Elohim, crowned with glory and magnificence." 
Psalms8:6 You have delegated to them rulership over all you have made, with everything under their authority, placing earth itself under the feet of your image-bearers." 
Psalms8:7 All the created order and every living thing of the earth, sky, and sea— the wildest beasts and all that move in the paths of the sea — everything is in submission to Adam’s sons." 
Psalms8:8  
Psalms8:9 Yahweh, our Sovereign God, your glory streams from the heavens above, filling the earth with the majesty of your name! People everywhere see your splendor!" 
Psalms9:1 I will worship you, Yahweh, with extended hands as my whole heart erupts with praise! I will tell everyone everywhere about your wonderful works!" 
Psalms9:2 I will be glad and shout in triumph. I will sing praise to your exalted name, O Most High." 
Psalms9:3 For when you appear, I worship you while my enemies run in retreat. They stumble and perish before your presence." 
Psalms9:4 For you have stood up for my cause and vindicated me when I needed you the most. From your righteous throne you have given me justice. 
Psalms9:5 With a blast of your rebuke, nations are destroyed. You obliterated their names forever and ever." 
Psalms9:6 The Lord thundered and our enemies have been cut off, vanished in everlasting ruins. All their cities have been destroyed— even the memory of them has been erased." 
Psalms9:7 But Yahweh, our mighty God, reigns forever! He sits enthroned as King ready to render his verdicts and judge all with righteousness." 
Psalms9:8 He will issue his decrees of judgment, deciding what is right for the entire world, dispensing justice to all." 
Psalms9:9 All who are oppressed may come to Yahweh as a high shelter in the time of trouble, a perfect hiding place." 
Psalms9:10 For everyone who knows your wonderful name keeps putting their trust in you. They can count on you for help no matter what. O Lord, you will never, no never, neglect those who come to you." 
Psalms9:11 Listen, everyone! Sing out your praises to the God who rules in Zion! Tell the world about all the miracles he has done!" 
Psalms9:12 He tracks down killers and avenges bloodshed, but he will never forget the ones forgotten by others, hearing every one of their cries for justice." 
Psalms9:13 So now, O Lord, don’t forget me. Have mercy on me. Take note of how I’ve been humiliated at the hands of those who hate me. You are the one who can snatch me away from the gates of death." 
Psalms9:14 Then I will sing your praises as I pass through the gates of the Daughter of Zion, rejoicing in your deliverance!" 
Psalms9:15 For the nations get trapped in the very snares they set for others. The hidden trap they set for the weak has snapped shut upon themselves! 
Psalms9:16 Yahweh is famous for his justice. While the wicked are digging a pit for others, they are actually setting the terms for their own judgment. They will fall into their own pit." 
Psalms9:17 Don’t forget this: all the wicked will one day fall into the darkness of death’s domain, including the nations that forget God and reject his ways." 
Psalms9:18 He will not forget the needs of the poor. One day the needy will be remembered, and their hopes will not be forever dashed in disappointment." 
Psalms9:19 Yahweh, it’s time to arise and judge the nations who defy you. Don’t let rebellious men triumph." 
Psalms9:20 Make them tremble in fear before your presence. Place a lawgiver over them. Make them know that they are only puny, frail humans who must give account to you!" 
Psalms10:1 Lord, why do you seem so far away when evil is near? Why have you hidden yourself when I need you the most?" 
Psalms10:2 The arrogant in their elitist pride persecute the poor and helpless. May you pour out upon them the very evil they’ve dreamed up against others! 
Psalms10:3 How they brag and boast of their cravings, exalting the greedy. They congratulate themselves as they despise you—" 
Psalms10:4 these arrogant ones, so smug and secure! In their delusion the wicked boast, saying, “God doesn’t care about what we do. There’s nothing to worry about!”" 
Psalms10:5 So successful are they in their schemes and prosperous in all their plans! Your laws are far from them; they scoff at their enemies. 
Psalms10:6 They boast that neither God nor men will bring them down. They sneer at all their enemies, saying in their hearts, “We’ll have success in all we do and never have to face trouble.”" 
Psalms10:7 Their mouths spew out cursing, lies, and threats. Only trouble and turmoil come from all their plans." 
Psalms10:8 Like beasts lurking in the shadows of the city, they crouch silently in ambush, waiting for the innocent to pass by. Pouncing on the poor, they catch them in their snare to murder their prey in secret as they plunder their helpless victims." 
Psalms10:9  
Psalms10:10 They crush the lowly as they fall beneath their brutal blows, watching their victims collapse in defeat!" 
Psalms10:11 Then they say to themselves, “The Lofty One is not watching while we do this. He doesn’t even care! We can get away with it!”" 
Psalms10:12 Now arise, Yahweh -God! Crush them once and for all! Don’t forget the helpless and oppressed." 
Psalms10:13 How dare the wicked think they’ll reject God and escape judgment. They say to themselves, “God won’t hold me accountable.”" 
Psalms10:14 Lord, I know you see all that they’re doing, noting their each and every deed. You know the trouble and turmoil they’ve caused. Now punish them thoroughly for all that they’ve done! The poor and helpless ones trust in you, Lord, for you are famous for being the helper of the fatherless. I know you won’t let them down." 
Psalms10:15 Break the power of the wicked and all their strong-arm tactics. Search them out and destroy them for the evil things they’ve done. 
Psalms10:16 You, Yahweh, are King forever and ever! All the nations will perish from your land." 
Psalms10:17 Yahweh, you have heard the desires of the humble and seen their hopes. You will hear their cries and encourage their hearts." 
Psalms10:18 The orphans and the oppressed will be terrified no longer, for you will bring them justice, and no earth-dweller will trouble them again." 
Psalms11:1 My faith shelters my soul continually in Yahweh. Why would you say to me: “ Run away while you can! Fly away like a bird to hide in the mountains for safety. 
Psalms11:2 For your enemies have prepared a trap for you! Can’t you see them hiding in their place of darkness and shadows? They’re set against all those who live upright lives. 
Psalms11:3 What can the righteous accomplish when truth’s pillars are destroyed and law and order collapse?” 
Psalms11:4 Yet Yahweh is never shaken — he is still found in his temple of holiness, reigning as King Yahweh over all. He closely watches and examines everything man does. With a glance, his eyes examine every heart, for his heavenly rule will prevail over all." 
Psalms11:5 Yahweh tests both the righteous and the wicked. God’s very soul detests lovers of violence. 
Psalms11:6 He will rain down upon them judgment for their sins. A scorching wind will be their lot in life. 
Psalms11:7 But remember this: Yahweh is the Righteous One who loves justice, and every godly one will gaze upon his face!" 
Psalms12:1 Help, Lord! Save us! For godly ones are disappearing. Where are the dependable, principled ones? They’re a vanishing breed!" 
Psalms12:2 Everyone lies, everyone flatters, and everyone deceives. Nothing but empty talk, smooth talk, and double-talk." 
Psalms12:3 You will destroy every proud liar who says, “We lie all we want. Our words are our weapons, and we won’t be held accountable. Who can stop us?” May Yahweh cut off their twisted tongues and seal their lying lips. May they all be silenced—those who boast and brag with their high-minded talk." 
Psalms12:4  
Psalms12:5 But the Lord says, “Now I will arise! I will defend the poor, those who were plundered, the oppressed, and the needy who groan for help. I will spring into action to rescue and protect them!”" 
Psalms12:6 For every word Yahweh speaks is sure and reliable. His truth is tested, found to be flawless, and ever faithful. It’s as pure as silver refined seven times in a crucible of clay." 
Psalms12:7 Lord, you will keep us safe, out of the reach of the wicked. Even though they strut and prowl, tolerating and celebrating what is worthless and vile, you will still lift up those who are yours!" 
Psalms12:8  
Psalms13:1 I’m hurting, Lord—will you forget me forever? How much longer, Lord? Will you look the other way when I’m in need?" 
Psalms13:2 How much longer must I cling to this constant grief? I’ve endured this shaking of my soul. So how much longer will my enemy have the upper hand? 
Psalms13:3 Take a good look at me, Yahweh, my God, and answer me! Breathe your life into my spirit. Bring light to my eyes in this pitch-black darkness or I will sleep the sleep of death." 
Psalms13:4 Don’t let my enemy proclaim, “I’ve prevailed over him.” For all my adversaries will celebrate when I fall." 
Psalms13:5 I have always trusted in your kindness, so answer me. I will spin in a circle of joy when your salvation lifts me up." 
Psalms13:6 I will sing my song of joy to you, Yahweh, for in all of this you have strengthened my soul. My enemies say that I have no Savior, but I know that I have one in you!" 
Psalms14:1 Only the withering soul would say to himself, “There is no God.” Anyone who thinks like this is corrupt and callous, devoid of what is good." 
Psalms14:2 Yahweh looks down in love, looking over all of Adam’s sons and daughters. He’s looking to see if there is anyone who acts wisely, any who are searching for God and wanting to please him." 
Psalms14:3 But everyone has wandered astray, walking stubbornly toward evil. Not one is good; he can’t even find one." 
Psalms14:4 They live in luxury while exploiting my people! Won’t these workers of wickedness ever learn? They don’t ever think of praying to God. 
Psalms14:5 But look at them now, in panic, trembling with terror. For God is on the side of his godly lovers." 
Psalms14:6 Yahweh is always the safest place for the poor when the workers of wickedness oppress them. 
Psalms14:7 How I wish that Israel’s rescue would arise from the midst of Zion! When Yahweh restores his people, Jacob’s joy will break forth and Israel will be glad!" 
Psalms15:1 Yahweh, who dares to dwell with you? Who presumes the privilege of being close to you, living next to you in your shining place of glory?" 
Psalms15:2 They are passionate and wholehearted, always sincere and always speaking the truth— for their hearts are trustworthy." 
Psalms15:3 They refuse to slander or insult others; they’ll never listen to gossip or rumors, nor would they ever harm a friend with their words." 
Psalms15:4 They will despise evil and evil workers while commending the faithful ones who follow after the truth. They make firm commitments and follow through, even at great cost." 
Psalms15:5 They never crush others with exploitation and they would never be bought with a bribe against the innocent. Those who do these things will never be shaken; they will stand firm forever. 
Psalms16:1 Keep me safe, O mighty God. I run to you, my safe place." 
Psalms16:2 I said to Yahweh, “You are my Maker and my Master. Any good thing you find in me has come from you.”" 
Psalms16:3 And he said to me, “My holy lovers in the land are my glorious ones, who fulfill all my desires.”" 
Psalms16:4 Yet there are those who yield to their weakness, and they will have troubles unending. I never gather with such ones, nor give them honor in any way." 
Psalms16:5 Yahweh, you alone are my inheritance. You are my prize, my pleasure, and my portion. You hold my destiny and its timing in your hands." 
Psalms16:6 Your pleasant path leads me to pleasant places. I’m overwhelmed by the privileges that come with following you! 
Psalms16:7 The way you counsel me makes me praise you more, for your whispers in the night give me wisdom, showing me what to do next." 
Psalms16:8 Because I set you, Yahweh, always close to me, my confidence will never be weakened, for I experience your wraparound presence every moment." 
Psalms16:9 My heart and soul explode with joy—full of glory! Even my body will rest confident and secure. 
Psalms16:10 For you will not abandon me to the realm of death, nor will you allow your Faithful One to experience corruption." 
Psalms16:11 Because of you, I know the path of life, as I taste the fullness of joy in your presence. At your right side I experience divine pleasures forevermore!" 
Psalms17:1 Listen to me, Lord. Hear the passionate prayer of this honest man. My cause is just and my need is real. I’ve done what’s right and my lips speak truth." 
Psalms17:2 Examine and exonerate me. Vindicate me and show the world I’m innocent. 
Psalms17:3 For in a visitation of the night you inspected my heart and refined my soul in fire until nothing vile was found in me. I will not sin with my words. 
Psalms17:4 Following your word has kept me from wrong. Your ways have molded my footsteps, keeping me from going down the paths of the violent." 
Psalms17:5 My steps follow in the tracks of your chariot wheels, always staying in their path, never straying from your way." 
Psalms17:6 You will answer me, God; I know you always will. Hear my words like you always do as you listen to my every prayer." 
Psalms17:7 Magnify the marvels of your mercy to all who seek you. You are the loving Savior of all who turn aside to hide themselves in you. 
Psalms17:8 Protect me from harm; keep an eye on me as you would a child who is reflected in the twinkling of your eye. Yes, hide me within the shelter of your embrace, under your outstretched wings." 
Psalms17:9 Protect me there from all my foes. For there are many who surround my soul to completely destroy me. 
Psalms17:10 They are pitiless, heartless—hard as nails, swollen with pride and filled with arrogance!" 
Psalms17:11 See how they close in on me, waiting for the chance to throw me to the ground." 
Psalms17:12 They’re like lions eager to tear me apart, like young and fearless lions lurking in secret, so ferocious and cruel—ready to rip me to shreds." 
Psalms17:13 Arise, God, and confront them! Challenge them with your might! Free me from their clutches and rescue me from their rage." 
Psalms17:14 Throw them down to the ground, those who live for only this life on earth. Thrust them out of their prosperity and into their portion in eternity, leaving their wealth and wickedness behind!" 
Psalms17:15 As for me, because I am innocent, I will see your face until I see you for who you really are. I will be satisfied in an awakening of your likeness in me!" 
Psalms18:1 I love you, Yahweh, and I’m bonded to you, my strength!" 
Psalms18:2 Yahweh, you’re the bedrock beneath my feet, my faith-fortress, my wonderful deliverer, my God, my rock of rescue where none can reach me. You’re the shield around me, the mighty power that saves me, and my high place." 
Psalms18:3 All I need to do is to call on you, Yahweh, the praiseworthy God. When I do, I’m safe and sound in you— delivered from my foes!" 
Psalms18:4 For when the cords of death wrapped around me and torrents of destruction overwhelmed me, taking me to death’s door," 
Psalms18:5  
Psalms18:6 in my distress I cried out to you, the delivering God, and from your temple-throne you heard my troubled cry, and my sobs went right into your heart." 
Psalms18:7 The earth itself shivered and shook. It reeled and rocked before him. As the mountains trembled, they melted away, for his anger was kindled on my behalf!" 
Psalms18:8 Fierce flames leapt from his mouth, erupting with blazing, burning coals as smoke and fire encircled him." 
Psalms18:9 He stretched heaven’s curtain open and came to my defense. Swiftly he rode to earth as the stormy sky was lowered. He rode a chariot of thunderclouds amidst thick darkness; his steed was a cherub, soaring on outstretched wings of Spirit-Wind." 
Psalms18:10  
Psalms18:11 Wrapped in the thick-cloud darkness, his thunder-tabernacle surrounded him. He hid himself in mystery-darkness; the dense rain clouds were his garments." 
Psalms18:12 Suddenly the brilliance of his presence broke through with lightning bolts and hail— a tempest dropping coals of fire. 
Psalms18:13 The Lord thundered; the great God above every god spoke with his thunder-voice from the sky. The Most High uttered his voice! 
Psalms18:14 He released his lightning-arrows, and routed my foes. See how they ran and scattered in fear!" 
Psalms18:15 Then with his mighty roar he laid bare the foundations of the earth, uncovering the secret source of the sea. The hidden depths of land and sea were exposed by the blast of his hot breath." 
Psalms18:16 He rescued me from the mighty waters and drew me to himself! 
Psalms18:17 Even though I was helpless in the hands of my hateful, strong enemy, you were good to deliver me." 
Psalms18:18 When I was at my weakest, my enemies attacked— but the Lord held on to me." 
Psalms18:19 His love broke open the way, and he brought me into a beautiful, broad place. He rescued me—because his delight is in me!" 
Psalms18:20 He rewarded me for doing what’s right and staying pure. 
Psalms18:21 I will follow his commands and I’ll not sin by ceasing to follow him, no matter what." 
Psalms18:22 For I’ve kept my eyes focused on his righteous words, and I’ve obeyed everything that he’s told me to do." 
Psalms18:23 I’ve been blameless before him and followed all his ways, keeping my heart pure." 
Psalms18:24 And so Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, because I kept my heart clean before his eyes." 
Psalms18:25 Good people will taste your goodness. And to those who are loyal to you, you love to prove that you are loyal and true." 
Psalms18:26 And for those who are purified, they find you always pure. But you’ll outwit the crooked and cunning with your craftiness." 
Psalms18:27 To the humble you bring heaven’s deliverance, but the proud and haughty you disregard." 
Psalms18:28 God, all at once you turned on a floodlight for me! You are the revelation-light in my darkness, and in your brightness I can see the path ahead." 
Psalms18:29 With you as my strength I can crush an enemy horde, advancing through every stronghold that stands in front of me." 
Psalms18:30 Yahweh, what a perfect God you are! All Yahweh ’s promises have proven true. What a secure shelter for all those who turn to hide themselves in you, the wraparound God." 
Psalms18:31 Could there be any other god like Yahweh? For there is not a more secure foundation than you. 
Psalms18:32 God, you have wrapped me in power and made my way perfect." 
Psalms18:33 Through you I ascend to the highest peaks to stand strong and secure in you. 
Psalms18:34 You’ve trained me with the weapons of warfare-worship; my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
Psalms18:35 You empower me for victory with your wraparound presence. Your power within makes me strong to subdue. By stooping down in gentleness, you made me great!" 
Psalms18:36 You’ve set me free, and now I’m standing complete, ready to fight some more!" 
Psalms18:37 I caught up with my enemies and conquered them and didn’t turn back until the war was won! 
Psalms18:38 I smashed them to pieces and I finished them once and for all; they’re as good as dead. 
Psalms18:39 You’ve placed your armor upon me and made my enemies bow low at my feet. 
Psalms18:40 You’ve made them all turn tail and run, for through you I’ve destroyed them all!" 
Psalms18:41 They shouted for help, but no one dared to rescue them. They cried out to Yahweh, but he refused to answer them." 
Psalms18:42 So I pulverized them to powder and cast them to the wind. I swept them away like dirt on the floor. 
Psalms18:43 You gave me victory on every side, for you make me a leader of nations. Even those I’ve never heard of come and bow at my feet." 
Psalms18:44 As soon as they heard of me they submitted to me. Even the rebel foreigners obey my every word. 
Psalms18:45 Their rebellion fades away as they come near; trembling in their strongholds, they come crawling out of their hideouts, cringing in fear before me." 
Psalms18:46 Yahweh lives! Praise is lifted high to the unshakable God! Towering over all, my Savior-God is worthy to be praised!" 
Psalms18:47 Look how he pays back harm to all who harm me, subduing all who come against me." 
Psalms18:48 He rescues me from my enemies; he lifts me up high and keeps me out of reach, far from the grasp of my violent foe." 
Psalms18:49 So I thank you, Yahweh, with my praises! I will sing my song to the highest God, so all among the nations will hear me." 
Psalms18:50 You have given me, your king, great victories. You’ve always been tender and kind to me, your anointed one, your loving servant, David, and to all my descendants!" 
Psalms19:1 God’s splendor is a tale that is told, written in the stars. Space itself speaks his story through the marvels of the heavens. His truth is on tour in the starry vault of the sky, showing his skill in creation’s craftsmanship." 
Psalms19:2 Each day gushes out its message to the next, night by night whispering its knowledge to all—" 
Psalms19:3 without a sound, without a word, without a voice being heard," 
Psalms19:4 yet all the world can hear its echo. Everywhere its message goes out. What a heavenly home God has set for the sun, shining in the superdome of the sky!" 
Psalms19:5 See how he leaves his celestial chamber each morning, radiant as a bridegroom ready for his wedding, like a day-breaking champion eager to run his course." 
Psalms19:6 He rises on one horizon, completing his circuit on the other, warming lives and lands with his heat." 
Psalms19:7 Yahweh ’s Word is perfect in every way; how it revives our souls! Yahweh ’s laws lead us to truth, and his ways change the simple into wise." 
Psalms19:8 Yahweh ’s teachings are right and make us joyful; his precepts are so pure! Yahweh ’s commands challenge us to keep close to his heart! The revelation-light of his Word makes my spirit shine radiant. 
Psalms19:9 Yahweh ’s decrees are trustworthy. The fear of Yahweh is pure, enduring forever." 
Psalms19:10 The rarest treasures of life are found in his truth. That’s why God’s Word is prized like others prize the finest gold. Sweeter also than honey are his living words— sweet words dripping from the honeycomb! 
Psalms19:11 For they warn us, your servants, and keep us from following the wicked way, giving a lifetime guarantee: great success to every obedient soul!" 
Psalms19:12 How would I discern the waywardness of my heart? Lord, forgive my hidden flaws whenever you find them." 
Psalms19:13 Keep cleansing me, God, and keep me from my secret, selfish sins; may they never rule over me! For only then will I be free from fault and remain innocent of rebellion." 
Psalms19:14 So may the words of my mouth, my meditation-thoughts, and every movement of my heart be always pure and pleasing, acceptable before your eyes, Yahweh, my only Redeemer, my Protector." 
Psalms20:1 In your day of danger may Yahweh answer and deliver you. May the name of the God of Jacob set you safely on high! 
Psalms20:2 May supernatural help be sent from his sanctuary. May he support you from Zion’s fortress! 
Psalms20:3 May he remember every gift you have given him and celebrate every sacrifice of love you have shown him. 
Psalms20:4 May Yahweh give you every desire of your heart and carry out your every plan as you go to battle. 
Psalms20:5 When you succeed, we will celebrate and shout for joy. Flags will fly when victory is yours! Yes, God will answer your prayers, and we will praise him!" 
Psalms20:6 I know Yahweh gives me all that I ask for and brings victory to his anointed king. My deliverance cry will be heard in his holy heaven. By his mighty hand miracles will manifest through his saving strength. 
Psalms20:7 Some find their strength in their weapons and wisdom, but my miracle-deliverance can never be won by men. Our boast is in Yahweh our God, who makes us strong and gives us victory!" 
Psalms20:8 Our enemies will not prevail; they will only collapse and perish in defeat while we will rise up, full of courage." 
Psalms20:9 Give victory to our king, O  Yahweh! The day we call on you, give us your answer!" 
Psalms21:1 Yahweh, because of your strength the king is strong. Look how he rejoices in you! He bursts out with a joyful song because of your victory!" 
Psalms21:2 For you have given him his heart’s desire, anything and everything he asks for. You haven’t withheld a thing from the king." 
Psalms21:3 Rich blessings overflow with every encounter with you, and you placed a royal crown of gold upon his head." 
Psalms21:4 He wanted life —you have given it to him and more! The days of his blessing stretch on one after another, forever!" 
Psalms21:5 You have honored him and made him famous. Glory-garments are upon him, and you surround him with splendor and majesty." 
Psalms21:6 Your victory heaps blessing after blessing upon him. What joy and bliss he tastes, rejoicing before your face!" 
Psalms21:7 For the king trusts in Yahweh, and he will never stumble, never fall. The forever-love of the Most High holds him firm." 
Psalms21:8 Your almighty hands have captured your foes. You uncovered all who hate you and you seized them. 
Psalms21:9 When you appear before them, unveiling the radiance of your face, they will be consumed by the fierce fire of your presence. Yahweh ’s flames will swallow them up. They and their descendants will be destroyed by an unrelenting fire." 
Psalms21:10  
Psalms21:11 We will watch them fail, for these are the ones who plan their evil schemes against the Lord." 
Psalms21:12 They will turn and run at the sight of your judgment-arrows aimed straight at their hearts. 
Psalms21:13 Rise up and put your might on display! By your strength we will sing and praise your glorious power! 
Psalms22:1 God, my God! Why would you abandon me now?" 
Psalms22:2 Why do you remain distant, refusing to answer my tearful cries in the day and my desperate cries for your help in the night? I can’t stop sobbing. Where are you, my God?" 
Psalms22:3 Yet I know that you are most holy. You are God-Enthroned, the praise of Israel." 
Psalms22:4 Our fathers’ faith was in you— through the generations they trusted in you and you came through. 
Psalms22:5 Every time they cried out to you in their despair, you were faithful to deliver them; you didn’t disappoint them." 
Psalms22:6 But I am like a worm, crushed and bleeding crimson, treated as less than human. I’ve been despised and scorned by everyone!" 
Psalms22:7 Mocked by their jeers, despised with their sneers, as all the people poke fun at me, spitting their insults," 
Psalms22:8 saying, “Is this the one who trusted in God? Now let’s see if Yahweh will come to your rescue! Let’s see how much he delights in him!”" 
Psalms22:9 Lord, you delivered me safely from my mother’s womb. You are the one who cared for me ever since I was a baby." 
Psalms22:10 Since the day I was born, I’ve been placed in your custody. You’ve cradled me throughout my days, and you’ve always been my God." 
Psalms22:11 So don’t leave me now, for trouble is all around me, and there’s no one to help me." 
Psalms22:12 I’m surrounded by many violent foes like bulls; forces of evil encircle me like the strong bulls of Bashan. 
Psalms22:13 Like ravenous, roaring lions tearing their prey, they pour curses from their mouths." 
Psalms22:14 Now I’m completely exhausted. Every joint of my body has been pulled apart. My courage has melted away. 
Psalms22:15 I’m so thirsty and parched. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. And now you lay me in the dust of death. 
Psalms22:16 They have pierced my hands and my feet. Like a pack of wild dogs they tear at me, swirling around me with their hatred. A band of evil men surrounds me." 
Psalms22:17 I can count all my bones. Look at how they gloat over me and stare! 
Psalms22:18 With a toss of the dice they divide my clothes among themselves, gambling for my garments!" 
Psalms22:19 Yahweh, please don’t stay far away. My strength, come quickly to my rescue." 
Psalms22:20 Give me back my life. Save me from this violent death. Save my precious one and only from the power of these dogs! 
Psalms22:21 Save me from all the power of the enemy, from this roaring lion raging against me and the power of his dark horde." 
Psalms22:22 I will declare your name before all my brothers and praise you in the midst of the congregation. 
Psalms22:23 Those who fear Yahweh, praise him! Let all the seed of Jacob glorify him with your praises. Stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel!" 
Psalms22:24 For he has not despised my cries of deep despair. He’s my first responder to my sufferings, and when I was in pain, he was there all the time and heard the cries of the afflicted." 
Psalms22:25 You’re the reason for my praise; it comes from you and goes to you. I will keep my promise to praise you before all who fear you among the congregation of your people. 
Psalms22:26 Let all the poor and broken eat until satisfied. Bring Yahweh praise and you will find him. May your hearts overflow with life forever! 
Psalms22:27 From the four corners of the earth, the peoples of the world will remember and return to Yahweh. Every nation will come and worship him." 
Psalms22:28 For Yahweh is King of all, who takes charge of all the nations." 
Psalms22:29 The wealthy of this world will feast in fellowship with him right alongside the humble of heart, bowing down to the dust, forsaking their own souls. They will all come and worship this worthy King!" 
Psalms22:30 His spiritual seed shall serve him. Future generations will hear from us about the wonders of the Victorious Lord. 
Psalms22:31 His generation yet to be born will glorify him. And they will all declare, “It is finished!”" 
Psalms23:1 Yahweh is my best friend and my shepherd. I always have more than enough. 
Psalms23:2 He offers a resting place for me in his luxurious love. His tracks take me to an oasis of peace near the quiet brook of bliss. 
Psalms23:3 That’s where he restores and revives my life. He opens before me the right path and leads me along in his footsteps of righteousness so that I can bring honor to his name. 
Psalms23:4 Even when your path takes me through the valley of deepest darkness, fear will never conquer me, for you already have! Your authority is my strength and my peace. The comfort of your love takes away my fear. I’ll never be lonely, for you are near." 
Psalms23:5 You become my delicious feast even when my enemies dare to fight. You anoint me with the fragrance of your Holy Spirit; you give me all I can drink of you until my cup overflows. 
Psalms23:6 So why would I fear the future? Only goodness and tender love pursue me all the days of my life. Then afterward, when my life is through, I’ll return to your glorious presence to be forever with you!" 
Psalms24:1 Yahweh claims the world as his. Everything and everyone belong to him! 
Psalms24:2 He’s the one who pushed back oceans to let the dry ground appear, planting firm foundations for the earth." 
Psalms24:3 Who, then, is allowed to ascend the mountain of Yahweh? And who has the privilege of entering into God’s Holy Place?" 
Psalms24:4 Those who are clean—whose works and ways are pure, whose hearts are true and sealed by the truth, those who never deceive, whose words are sure." 
Psalms24:5 They will receive Yahweh ’s blessing and righteousness given by the Savior-God. 
Psalms24:6 They will stand before God, for they seek the pleasure of God’s face, the God of Jacob." 
Psalms24:7 So wake up, you living gateways! Lift up your heads, you doorways of eternity! Welcome the King of Glory, for he is about to come through you." 
Psalms24:8 You ask, “Who is this King of Glory?” Yahweh, armed and ready for battle, Yahweh, invincible in every way!" 
Psalms24:9 So wake up, you living gateways, and rejoice! Fling wide, you eternal doors! Here he comes; the King of Glory is ready to come in." 
Psalms24:10 You ask, “Who is this King of Glory?” He is Yahweh, armed and ready for battle, the Mighty One, the invincible commander of heaven’s hosts! Yes, he is the King of Glory!" 
Psalms25:1 Always I will lift up my soul into your presence, Yahweh." 
Psalms25:2 Be there for me, my God, for I keep trusting in you. Don’t allow my foes to gloat over me or the shame of defeat to overtake me." 
Psalms25:3 Could anyone be disgraced when he has entwined his heart with yours? But my foes will all be defeated and ashamed when they harm the innocent. 
Psalms25:4 Direct me, Yahweh, throughout my journey so I can experience your plans for my life. Reveal the life-paths that are pleasing to you." 
Psalms25:5 Escort me into your truth; take me by the hand and teach me. For you are the God of my salvation; I have wrapped my heart into yours all day long! 
Psalms25:6 Forgive my failures as a young man, and overlook the sins of my immaturity. Give me grace, Yahweh! Always look at me through your eyes of love— your forgiving eyes of mercy and compassion. When you think of me, see me as one you love and care for." 
Psalms25:7  
Psalms25:8 How good you are to me! When people turn to you, Yahweh, they discover how easy you are to please—so faithful and true! Joyfully you teach them the proper path, even when they go astray." 
Psalms25:9 Keep showing the humble your path, and lead them into the best decision. Bring revelation-light that trains them in the truth." 
Psalms25:10 Loving are all the ways of Yahweh, loving and faithful for those who keep his covenant." 
Psalms25:11 For the honor of your name, Yahweh, never count my many sins, and forgive them all— lift their burden off of my life!" 
Psalms25:12 Who are they that live in the holy fear of Yahweh? You will show them the right path to take. 
Psalms25:13 Then prosperity and favor will be their portion, and their descendants will inherit the earth." 
Psalms25:14 There’s a private place reserved for the devoted lovers of Yahweh, where they sit near him and receive the revelation-secrets of his promises." 
Psalms25:15 Rescue me, Yahweh, for you free my feet from every trap." 
Psalms25:16 Sorrows fill my heart as I feel helpless, mistreated— I’m all alone and in misery! Come closer to me now, for I need your mercy." 
Psalms25:17 Turn to me, for my problems seem to be going from bad to worse. Only you can free me from all these troubles!" 
Psalms25:18 Until you lift this burden, the burden of all my sins, my troubles and trials will be more than I can handle. Can’t you feel my pain?" 
Psalms25:19 Vicious, violent enemies hate me. There are so many, Lord. Can’t you see?" 
Psalms25:20 Will you protect me from their power against me? I have taken shelter in you. Let it never be said that when I trusted you, you didn’t come to my rescue." 
Psalms25:21 Your perfection and faithfulness are my bodyguards, for you are my hope and I trust in you as my only protection." 
Psalms25:22 Zealously, God, we ask you to come save Israel from all her troubles, for you provide the ransom price for your people!" 
Psalms26:1 Yahweh, be my judge and declare me innocent! Clear my name, for I walk in integrity and trust you without wavering." 
Psalms26:2 Yahweh, you can scrutinize me. Refine my heart and probe my every thought. Put me to the test and you’ll find me true." 
Psalms26:3 I will never lose sight of your steadfast love for me. Your faithfulness has steadied my steps. 
Psalms26:4 I won’t keep company with tricky, two-faced men, nor will I go the way of those with hidden motives." 
Psalms26:5 I despise the sinner’s hangouts. You won’t find me walking with the wicked. 
Psalms26:6 When I come to your altar, Yahweh, I’ll be clean before you, approaching with songs of thanksgiving, singing songs of your mighty miracles." 
Psalms26:7  
Psalms26:8 Yahweh, I love to live in your house, this dwelling place of dazzling glory!" 
Psalms26:9 Don’t treat me as one of these scheming sinners who plot violence against the innocent. 
Psalms26:10 Look how they devise their wicked plans; their hands are always ready to receive a bribe. 
Psalms26:11 I’m not like them, Lord—not at all. Save me, redeem me with your mercy, for I have chosen to walk only in what is right." 
Psalms26:12 Among the worshipers I will praise Yahweh, for I am safe and secure because of you!" 
Psalms27:1 Yahweh is my revelation-light and the source of my salvation. I fear no one! I’ll never turn back and run, for you, Yahweh, surround and protect me." 
Psalms27:2 When evil ones come to destroy me, they will be the ones who turn back." 
Psalms27:3 My heart will not fear even if an army rises to attack. I will not be shaken, even if war is imminent." 
Psalms27:4 Here’s the one thing I crave from Yahweh, the one thing I seek above all else: I want to live with him every moment in his house, beholding the marvelous beauty of Yahweh, filled with awe, delighting in his glory and grace. I want to contemplate in his temple." 
Psalms27:5 In the day of trouble, he will treasure me in his shelter, under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock, out of reach from all my enemies who surround me. Triumphant now, I’ll bring him my offerings of praise, singing and shouting with ecstatic joy! Yes, I will sing praises to Yahweh!" 
Psalms27:6  
Psalms27:7 Hear my cry. Show me mercy, and send the help I need!" 
Psalms27:8 I heard your voice in my heart say, “Come, seek my face;” my inner being responded, “ Yahweh, I’m seeking your face with all my heart.”" 
Psalms27:9 So don’t turn your face away from me. You’re the God of my salvation; how can you reject your servant in anger? You’ve been my only hope, so don’t forsake me now when I need you!" 
Psalms27:10 My father and mother abandoned me. But you, Yahweh, took me in and made me yours." 
Psalms27:11 Now teach me, Yahweh, all about your ways and tell me what to do. Make it clear for me to understand, for I am surrounded by waiting enemies." 
Psalms27:12 Don’t let them defeat me, Lord. You can’t let me fall into their clutches! They keep accusing me of things I’ve never done, breathing out violence against me." 
Psalms27:13 Yet I believe with all my heart that I will see again your goodness, Yahweh, in the land of life eternal!" 
Psalms27:14 Here’s what I’ve learned through it all: Don’t give up; don’t be impatient; be entwined as one with the Lord. Be brave and courageous, and never lose hope. Yes, keep on waiting— for he will never disappoint you!" 
Psalms28:1 I’m pleading with you, Yahweh, help me! Don’t close your ears to my cry, for you’re my defender. If you continue to remain aloof and refuse to answer me, I might as well give up and die." 
Psalms28:2 Hear my cry for help as I turn toward your mercy seat, as I lift my hands toward your sacred sanctuary." 
Psalms28:3 Don’t allow me to be punished along with the wicked— these hypocrites who speak sweetly to their neighbors’ faces while holding evil against them in their hearts. 
Psalms28:4 Go ahead and punish them as they deserve. Let them be paid back for all their evil plans in proportion to their wickedness. 
Psalms28:5 Since they don’t care anything about you, or understand the great things you’ve done, take them down like an old building being demolished, never again to be rebuilt." 
Psalms28:6 But Yahweh, may your name be blessed and built up! For you have answered my passionate cry for mercy." 
Psalms28:7 Yahweh is my strength and my wraparound shield. When I fully trust in you, help is on the way. I jump for joy and burst forth with ecstatic, passionate praise! I will sing songs of what you mean to me!" 
Psalms28:8 You will be the inner strength of all your people, Yahweh, the mighty protector of all, and the saving strength for all your anointed ones." 
Psalms28:9 Save your people whom you love, and bless your chosen ones. Be our shepherd leading us forward, forever carrying us in your arms!" 
Psalms29:1 Proclaim his majesty, all you mighty sons of Yahweh, giving all the glory and strength back to him!" 
Psalms29:2 Be in awe before his majesty. Be in awe before such power and might! Come worship wonderful Yahweh, arrayed in all his splendor, bowing in worship as he appears in the beauty of holiness. Give him the honor due his name. Worship him wearing the glory-garments of your holy, priestly calling!" 
Psalms29:3 The voice of the Lord echoes through the skies and seas. The Glory-God reigns as he thunders in the clouds. So powerful is his voice, so brilliant and bright— how majestic as he thunders over the great waters!" 
Psalms29:4  
Psalms29:5 His tympanic thunder topples the strongest of trees. His symphonic sound splinters the mighty forests. 
Psalms29:6 Now he moves Zion’s mountains by the might of his voice, shaking the snowy peaks with his earsplitting sound!" 
Psalms29:7 The lightning-fire flashes, striking as he speaks." 
Psalms29:8 God reveals himself when he makes the fault lines quake, shaking deserts, speaking his voice." 
Psalms29:9 God’s mighty voice makes the deer to give birth. His thunderbolt-voice lays the forest bare. In his temple all fall before him with each one shouting, “Glory, glory, the God of glory!”" 
Psalms29:10 Above the furious flood, the Enthroned One reigns, the King-God rules with eternity at his side." 
Psalms29:11 This is the one who gives his strength and might to his people. This is the Lord giving us his kiss of peace. 
Psalms30:1 Lord, I will exalt you and lift you high, for you have lifted me up on high! Over all my boasting, gloating enemies, you made me to triumph." 
Psalms30:2 O Lord, my healing God, I cried out for a miracle and you healed me!" 
Psalms30:3 You brought me back from the brink of death, from the depths below. Now here I am, alive and well, fully restored!" 
Psalms30:4 O sing and make melody, you steadfast lovers of God. Give thanks to him every time you reflect on his holiness!" 
Psalms30:5 I’ve learned that his anger lasts for a moment, but his loving favor lasts a lifetime! We may weep through the night, but at daybreak it will turn into shouts of ecstatic joy." 
Psalms30:6 I remember boasting, “I’ve got it made! Nothing can stop me now! I’m God’s favored one; he’s made me steady as a mountain!” But then suddenly, you hid your face from me. I was panic-stricken and became depressed." 
Psalms30:7  
Psalms30:8 Still I cried out to you, Lord God. I shouted out for mercy, saying," 
Psalms30:9 “What would you gain in my death, if I were to go down to the depths of darkness? Will a grave sing your song? How could death’s dust declare your faithfulness?”" 
Psalms30:10 So hear me now, Lord; show me your famous mercy. O God, be my Savior and rescue me!" 
Psalms30:11 Then he broke through and transformed all my wailing into a whirling dance of ecstatic praise! He has torn the veil and lifted from me the sad heaviness of mourning. He wrapped me in the glory-garments of gladness. 
Psalms30:12 How could I be silent when it’s time to praise you? Now my heart sings out, bursting with joy— a bliss inside that keeps me singing, “I can never thank you enough!”" 
Psalms31:1 I trust you, Lord, to be my hiding place. Don’t let me down. Don’t let my enemies bring me to shame. Come and rescue me, for you are the only God who always does what is right." 
Psalms31:2 Rescue me quickly when I cry out to you. At the sound of my prayer may your ear be turned to me. Be my strong shelter and hiding place on high. Pull me into victory and breakthrough. 
Psalms31:3 For you are my high fortress, where I’m kept safe. You are to me a stronghold of salvation. When you deliver me out of this peril, it will bring glory to your name. As you guide me forth I’ll be kept safe from the hidden snares of the enemy— the secret traps that lie before me— for you have become my rock of strength." 
Psalms31:4  
Psalms31:5 Into your hands I now entrust my spirit. O Lord, the God of faithfulness, you have rescued and redeemed me." 
Psalms31:6 I despise these deceptive illusions, all this pretense and nonsense, for I worship only you." 
Psalms31:7 In mercy you have seen my troubles, and you have cared for me; even during this crisis in my soul I will be radiant with joy, filled with praise for your love and mercy." 
Psalms31:8 You have kept me from being conquered by my enemy; you broke open the way to bring me to freedom, into a beautiful, broad place." 
Psalms31:9 O Lord, help me again! Keep showing me such mercy. For I am in anguish, always in tears, and I’m worn out with weeping. I’m becoming old because of grief; my health is broken." 
Psalms31:10 I’m exhausted! My life is spent with sorrow, my years with sighing and sadness. Because of all these troubles, I have no more strength. My inner being is so weak and frail." 
Psalms31:11 My enemies say, “You are nothing!” Even my friends and neighbors hold me in contempt! They dread seeing me, and they look the other way when I pass by." 
Psalms31:12 I am totally forgotten, buried away like a dead man, discarded like a broken dish thrown in the trash." 
Psalms31:13 I overheard their whispered threats, the slander of my enemies. I’m terrified as they plot and scheme to take my life." 
Psalms31:14 I’m desperate, Lord! I throw myself upon you, for you alone are my God!" 
Psalms31:15 My life, my every moment, my destiny—it’s all in your hands. So I know you can deliver me from those who persecute me relentlessly." 
Psalms31:16 Smile on me, your servant. Let your undying love and glorious grace save me from all this gloom." 
Psalms31:17 As I call upon you, let my shame and disgrace be replaced by your favor once again. But let shame and disgrace fall instead upon the wicked— those going to their own doom, drifting down in silence to the dust of death." 
Psalms31:18 At last their lying lips will be muted in their graves. For they are arrogant, filled with contempt and conceit as they speak against the godly." 
Psalms31:19 Lord, how wonderful you are! You have stored up so many good things for us, like a treasure chest heaped up and spilling over with blessings— all for those who honor and worship you! Everybody knows what you can do for those who turn and hide themselves in you." 
Psalms31:20 So hide all your beloved ones in the sheltered, secret place before your face. Overshadow them with your glory-presence. Keep them from these accusations, the brutal insults of evil men. Tuck them safely away in the tabernacle where you dwell." 
Psalms31:21 The name of the Lord is blessed and lifted high! For his marvelous miracle of mercy protected me when I was overwhelmed by my enemies. 
Psalms31:22 I spoke hastily when I said, “The Lord has deserted me.” For in truth, you did hear my prayer and came to rescue me." 
Psalms31:23 Listen to me, all you godly ones: Love the Lord with passion! The Lord protects and preserves all those who are loyal to him. But he pays back in full all those who reject him in their pride." 
Psalms31:24 So cheer up! Take courage, all you who love him. Wait for him to break through for you, all who trust in him!" 
Psalms32:1 What bliss belongs to the one whose rebellion has been forgiven, those whose sins are covered by blood." 
Psalms32:2 What bliss belongs to those who have confessed their corruption to God! For he wipes their slates clean and removes hypocrisy from their hearts. 
Psalms32:3 Before I confessed my sins, I kept it all inside; my dishonesty devastated my inner life, causing my life to be filled with frustration, irrepressible anguish, and misery." 
Psalms32:4 The pain never let up, for your hand of conviction was heavy on my heart. My strength was sapped, my inner life dried up like a spiritual drought within my soul." 
Psalms32:5 Then I finally admitted to you all my sins, refusing to hide them any longer. I said, “My life-giving God, I will openly acknowledge my evil actions.” And you forgave me! All at once the guilt of my sin washed away and all my pain disappeared!" 
Psalms32:6 This is what I’ve learned through it all: All believers should confess their sins to God; do it every time God has uncovered you in the time of exposing. For if you do this, when sudden storms of life overwhelm, you’ll be kept safe." 
Psalms32:7 Lord, you are my secret hiding place, protecting me from these troubles, surrounding me with songs of gladness! Your joyous shouts of rescue release my breakthrough." 
Psalms32:8 I hear the Lord saying, “I will stay close to you, instructing and guiding you along the pathway for your life. I will advise you along the way and lead you forth with my eyes as your guide. So don’t make it difficult; don’t be stubborn when I take you where you’ve not been before. Don’t make me tug you and pull you along. Just come with me!”" 
Psalms32:9  
Psalms32:10 So my conclusion is this: Many are the sorrows and frustrations of those who don’t come clean with God. But when you trust in the Lord for forgiveness, his wraparound love will surround you." 
Psalms32:11 So celebrate the goodness of God! He shows this kindness to everyone who is his. Go ahead—shout for joy, all you upright ones who want to please him!" 
Psalms33:1 It’s time to sing and shout for joy! Go ahead, all you redeemed ones, do it! Praise him with all you have, for praise looks lovely on the lips of God’s devoted lovers." 
Psalms33:2 Play the guitar as you lift your praises loaded with thanksgiving. Sing and make joyous music with all you’ve got inside. 
Psalms33:3 Compose new melodies that release new praises to the Lord. Play his praises on instruments with the anointing and skill he gives you. Sing and shout with passion; make a spectacular sound of joy— 
Psalms33:4 For God’s Word is something to sing about! He is true to his promises, his word can be trusted, and everything he does is reliable and right." 
Psalms33:5 The Lord loves seeing justice on the earth. Anywhere and everywhere you can find his faithful, unfailing love!" 
Psalms33:6 All he had to do was speak by his Spirit-Wind command, and God created the heavenlies. Filled with galaxies and stars, the vast cosmos he wonderfully made." 
Psalms33:7 His voice scooped out the seas. The ocean depths he poured into vast reservoirs. 
Psalms33:8 With breathtaking wonder, let everyone worship Yahweh, this awe-inspiring Creator." 
Psalms33:9 He breathed words and worlds were birthed. “Let there be,” and there it was— springing forth the moment he spoke, no sooner said than done!" 
Psalms33:10 With his breath he scatters the schemes of nations who oppose him; they will never succeed. 
Psalms33:11 His destiny-plan for the earth stands sure. His forever-plan remains in place and will never fail. 
Psalms33:12 Blessed and prosperous is that nation who has God as their Lord! They will be the people he has chosen for his own. 
Psalms33:13 The Lord looks over us from where he rules in heaven. Gazing into every heart from his lofty dwelling place, he observes all the peoples of the earth. The Creator of our hearts considers and examines everything we do." 
Psalms33:14  
Psalms33:15  
Psalms33:16 Even if a king had the best-equipped army, it would never be enough to save him. Even if the best warrior went to battle, he could not be saved simply by his strength alone." 
Psalms33:17 Human strength and the weapons of man are false hopes for victory; they may seem mighty, but they will always disappoint." 
Psalms33:18 The eyes of the Lord are upon even the weakest worshipers who love him— those who wait in hope and expectation for the strong, steady love of God." 
Psalms33:19 God will deliver them from death, even the certain death of famine, with no one to help." 
Psalms33:20 The Lord alone is our radiant hope and we trust in him with all our hearts. His wraparound presence will strengthen us. 
Psalms33:21 As we trust, we rejoice with an uncontained joy flowing from Yahweh!" 
Psalms33:22 Let your love and steadfast kindness overshadow us continually, for we trust and we wait upon you!" 
Psalms34:1 Lord! I’m bursting with joy over what you’ve done for me! My lips are full of perpetual praise. 
Psalms34:2 I’m boasting of you and all your works, so let all who are discouraged take heart." 
Psalms34:3 Join me, everyone! Let’s praise the Lord together. Let’s make him famous! Let’s make his name glorious to all." 
Psalms34:4 Listen to my testimony: I cried to God in my distress and he answered me. He freed me from all my fears! 
Psalms34:5 Gaze upon him, join your life with his, and joy will come. Your faces will glisten with glory. You’ll never wear that shame-face again." 
Psalms34:6 When I had nothing, desperate and defeated, I cried out to the Lord and he heard me, bringing his miracle-deliverance when I needed it most." 
Psalms34:7 The angel of Yahweh stooped down to listen as I prayed, encircling me, empowering me, and showing me how to escape. He will do this for everyone who fears God." 
Psalms34:8 Drink deeply of the pleasures of this God. Experience for yourself the joyous mercies he gives to all who turn to hide themselves in him. 
Psalms34:9 Worship in awe and wonder, all you who’ve been made holy! For all who fear him will feast with plenty." 
Psalms34:10 Even the strong and the wealthy grow weak and hungry, but those who passionately pursue the Lord will never lack any good thing." 
Psalms34:11 Come, children of God, and listen to me. I’ll share the lesson I’ve learned of fearing the Lord:" 
Psalms34:12 Do you want to live a long, good life, enjoying the beauty that fills each day? Then never speak a lie or allow wicked words to come from your mouth." 
Psalms34:13  
Psalms34:14 Keep turning your back on every sin, and make “peace” your life motto. Practice being at peace with everyone." 
Psalms34:15 The Lord sees all we do; he watches over his friends day and night. His godly ones receive the answers they seek whenever they cry out to him. 
Psalms34:16 But the Lord has made up his mind to oppose evildoers and to wipe out even the memory of them from the face of the earth. 
Psalms34:17 Yet when holy lovers of God cry out to him with all their hearts, the Lord will hear them and come to rescue them from all their troubles." 
Psalms34:18 The Lord is close to all whose hearts are crushed by pain, and he is always ready to restore the repentant one." 
Psalms34:19 Even when bad things happen to the good and godly ones, the Lord will save them and not let them be defeated by what they face." 
Psalms34:20 God will be your bodyguard to protect you when trouble is near. Not one bone will be broken. 
Psalms34:21 Evil will cause the death of the wicked, for they hate and persecute the devoted lovers of God. Make no mistake about it: God will hold them guilty and punish them; they will pay the penalty!" 
Psalms34:22 But the Lord has paid for the freedom of his servants, and he will freely pardon those who love him. He will declare them free and innocent when they turn to hide themselves in him." 
Psalms35:1 O Lord, fight for me! Harass the hecklers; accuse my accusers. Fight those who fight against me." 
Psalms35:2 Put on your armor, Lord; take up your shield and protect me. Rise up, mighty God! Grab your weapons of war and block the way of the wicked who come to fight me. Stand for me when they stand against me! Speak over my soul: “I am your strong Savior!”" 
Psalms35:3  
Psalms35:4 Humiliate those who seek my harm. Defeat them all! Frustrate their plans to defeat me and drive them back. Disgrace them all as they have devised their plans to disgrace me. 
Psalms35:5 Blow them away like dust in the wind, with the angel of Almighty God driving them back!" 
Psalms35:6 Make the road in front of them nothing but slippery darkness, with the angel of Yahweh behind them, chasing them away!" 
Psalms35:7 For though I did nothing wrong to them, they set a trap for me, wanting me to fail and fall." 
Psalms35:8 Surprise them with your ambush, Lord, and catch them in the very trap they set for me. Let them be the ones to fail and fall into destruction!" 
Psalms35:9 Then my fears will dissolve into limitless joy; my whole being will overflow with gladness because of your mighty deliverance. 
Psalms35:10 Everything inside of me will shout it out: “There’s no one like you, Lord!” For look at how you protect the weak and helpless from the strong and heartless who oppress them." 
Psalms35:11 They are malicious men, hostile witnesses of wrong. They rise up against me, accusers appearing out of nowhere." 
Psalms35:12 When I show them mercy, they bring me misery. I’m forsaken and forlorn, like a motherless child." 
Psalms35:13 I even prayed over them when they were sick. I was burdened and bowed low with fasting and interceded for their healing, and I didn’t stop praying." 
Psalms35:14 I grieved for them, heavyhearted, as though they were my dearest family members or my good friends who were sick, nearing death, needing prayer." 
Psalms35:15 But when I was the one who tripped up and stumbled, they came together to slander me, rejoicing in my time of trouble, tearing me to shreds with their lies and betrayal." 
Psalms35:16 These nameless ruffians, mocking me like godless fools at a feast— how they delight in throwing mud on my name." 
Psalms35:17 God, how long can you just stand there doing nothing? Now is the time to act. Rescue me from these brutal men, for I am being torn to shreds by these beasts who are out to get me. Save me from their rage, their cruel grasp." 
Psalms35:18 Then I will praise you wherever I go. And when everyone gathers for worship, I will lift up your praise with a shout in front of the largest crowd I can find!" 
Psalms35:19 Don’t let those who fight me for no reason be victorious. Don’t let them succeed, these heartless haters who come against me with their gloating sneers." 
Psalms35:20 They are the ones who would never seek peace as friends, for they are ever devising deceit against the innocent ones who mind their own business." 
Psalms35:21 They open their mouths with ugly grins, gloating with glee over my every fault. “Look,” they say, “we caught him red-handed! We saw him fall with our own eyes!”" 
Psalms35:22 Yahweh, my caring God, you have been there all along. You have seen their hypocrisy. Yahweh, don’t let them get away with this. Don’t walk away without doing something." 
Psalms35:23 Now is the time to awake! Rise up, Lord! Vindicate me, my Lord and my God!" 
Psalms35:24 You have every right to judge me, Lord, according to your righteousness, but don’t let them rejoice over me when I stumble." 
Psalms35:25 Let them all be ashamed of themselves, humiliated when they rejoice over my every blunder. Shame them, Lord, when they say, “We saw what he did. Now we have him right where we want him. Let’s get him while he’s down!” Make them look ridiculous when they exalt themselves over me. May they all be disgraced and dishonored!" 
Psalms35:26  
Psalms35:27 But let all my true friends shout for joy, all those who know and love what I do for you. Let them all say, “The Lord is great, and he delights in the prosperity of his servant.”" 
Psalms35:28 Then I won’t be able to hold it in— everyone will hear my joyous praises all day long! Your righteousness will be the theme of my glory-song of praise! 
Psalms36:1 The rebellion of sin speaks as an oracle of God, speaking deeply to the conscience of wicked men. Yet they are still eager to sin, for the fear of God is not before their eyes." 
Psalms36:2 See how they flatter themselves, unable to detect and detest their sins. They are crooked and conceited, convinced they can get away with anything." 
Psalms36:3 Their wicked words are nothing but lies. Wisdom is far from them. Goodness is both forgotten and forsaken. 
Psalms36:4 They lie awake at night to hatch their evil plots, always planning their schemes of darkness, and never once do they consider the evil of their ways." 
Psalms36:5 But you, O Lord, your mercy-seat love is limitless, reaching higher than the highest heavens. Your great faithfulness is infinite, stretching over the whole earth." 
Psalms36:6 Your righteousness is unmovable, just like the mighty mountains. Your judgments are as full of wisdom as the oceans are full of water. Your tender care and kindness leave no one forgotten, not a man or even a mouse." 
Psalms36:7 O God, how extravagant is your cherishing love! All mankind can find a hiding place under the shadow of your wings." 
Psalms36:8 All may drink of the anointing from the abundance of your house. All may drink their fill from the rivers of Eden. 
Psalms36:9 The fountain of life flows from you to satisfy me. In your light of holiness we receive the light of revelation. 
Psalms36:10 Lord, keep pouring out your unfailing love on those who are near you. Release more of your blessings to those who are loyal to you." 
Psalms36:11 Don’t let these proud boasters trample me down; don’t let them push me around by the sheer strength of their wickedness. 
Psalms36:12 There they lie in the dirt, these evil ones, thrown down to the ground, never to arise again!" 
Psalms37:1 Don’t follow after the wicked ones or be jealous of their wealth. Don’t think for a moment they’re better off than you. 
Psalms37:2 They and their short-lived success will soon shrivel up and quickly fade away, like grass clippings in the hot sun." 
Psalms37:3 Keep trusting in the Lord and do what is right in his eyes. Fix your heart on the promises of God, and you will dwell in the land, feasting on his faithfulness." 
Psalms37:4 Find your delight and true pleasure in Yahweh, and he will give you what you desire the most." 
Psalms37:5 Give God the right to direct your life, and as you trust him along the way, you’ll find he pulled it off perfectly!" 
Psalms37:6 He will appear as your righteousness, as sure as the dawning of a new day. He will manifest as your justice, as sure and strong as the noonday sun." 
Psalms37:7 Quiet your heart in his presence and wait patiently for Yahweh. And don’t think for a moment that the wicked, in their prosperity, are better off than you." 
Psalms37:8 Stay away from anger and revenge. Keep envy far from you, for it only leads you into lies." 
Psalms37:9 For one day the wicked will be destroyed, but those who trust in the Lord will inherit the land." 
Psalms37:10 Just a little while longer and the ungodly will vanish; you will look for them in vain. 
Psalms37:11 But the humble of heart will inherit every promise and enjoy abundant peace. 
Psalms37:12 Let the wicked keep plotting against the godly with all their sneers and arrogant jeers. 
Psalms37:13 God laughs at the wicked and their plans, for he knows their day is coming!" 
Psalms37:14 Evil ones take aim at the poor and helpless; they are ready to slaughter those who do right. 
Psalms37:15 But the Lord will turn all their weapons of wickedness back on themselves, piercing their pride-filled hearts until they are helpless." 
Psalms37:16 It is much better to have little combined with much of God than to have the fabulous wealth of the wicked and nothing else. 
Psalms37:17 For the Lord takes care of all his forgiven ones while the strength of evil men will surely slip away. 
Psalms37:18 Day by day the Lord watches the good deeds of the godly, and he prepares for them his forever-reward." 
Psalms37:19 Even in a time of disaster he will watch over them, and they will always have more than enough no matter what happens." 
Psalms37:20 All the enemies of God will perish. For the wicked have only a momentary value, a fading glory. Then one day they vanish! Here today, gone tomorrow." 
Psalms37:21 They break their promises, borrowing money but never paying it back. The good man returns what he owes with some extra besides." 
Psalms37:22 Yahweh ’s blessed ones receive the land, but the cursed ones will be cut off with nothing to show for themselves." 
Psalms37:23 When Yahweh delights in how you live your life, he establishes your every step." 
Psalms37:24 If they stumble badly they will still survive, for the Lord lifts them up with his hands." 
Psalms37:25 I was once inexperienced, but now I’m old. Not once have I found a lover of God forsaken by him, nor have any of their children gone hungry." 
Psalms37:26 Instead, I’ve found the godly ones to be the generous ones who give freely to others. Their children are blessed and become a blessing." 
Psalms37:27 If you truly want to dwell forever in God’s presence, forsake evil and do what is right in his eyes." 
Psalms37:28 The Lord loves it when he sees us walking in his justice. He will never desert his devoted lovers; they will be kept forever in his faithful care, but the descendants of the wicked will be banished." 
Psalms37:29 The faithful lovers of God will inherit the earth and enjoy every promise of God’s care, dwelling in peace forever." 
Psalms37:30 God-lovers make the best counselors. Their words possess wisdom and are right and trustworthy. 
Psalms37:31 The ways of God are in their hearts and they won’t swerve from the paths of steadfast righteousness. 
Psalms37:32 Evil ones spy on the godly ones, stalking them to find something they could use to accuse them. They’re out for the kill!" 
Psalms37:33 But God will foil all their plots. The godly will not stand condemned when brought to trial. 
Psalms37:34 So don’t be impatient for Yahweh to act; keep moving forward steadily in his ways, and he will exalt you to possess the land. You’ll watch with your own eyes and see the wicked lose everything." 
Psalms37:35 I’ve already seen this happen. Once I saw a wicked and violent man overpower all who were around him, a domineering tyrant with his prideful and oppressive ways." 
Psalms37:36 Then he died and was forgotten. Now no one cares that he is gone forever. 
Psalms37:37 But you can tell who are the blameless and spiritually mature. What a different story with them! The godly ones will have a peaceful, prosperous future with a happy ending." 
Psalms37:38 Every evil sinner will be destroyed, obliterated. They’ll be utter failures with no future!" 
Psalms37:39 But the Lord will be the Savior of all who love him. Even in their time of trouble, God will live in them as strength." 
Psalms37:40 Because of their faith in him, their daily portion will be a Father’s help and deliverance from evil. This is true for all who turn to hide themselves in him!" 
Psalms38:1 O Lord, don’t punish me angrily for what I’ve done. Don’t let my sin inflame your wrath against me." 
Psalms38:2 For the arrows of your conviction have pierced me deeply. Your blows have struck my soul and crushed me. 
Psalms38:3 Now my body is sick. My health is totally broken because of your anger, and it’s all due to my sins!" 
Psalms38:4 I’m overwhelmed, swamped, and submerged beneath the heavy burden of my guilt. It clings to me and won’t let me go." 
Psalms38:5 My rotting wounds are a witness against me. They are severe and getting worse, reminding me of my failure and folly." 
Psalms38:6 I am completely broken because of what I’ve done. Gloom is all around me. My sins have bent me over to the ground. 
Psalms38:7 My inner being is shriveled up; my self-confidence crushed. Sick with fever, I’m left exhausted. Now I’m as cold as a corpse, and nothing is left inside me but great groaning filled with anguish." 
Psalms38:8  
Psalms38:9 Lord, you know all my desires and deepest longings. My tears are liquid words, and you can read them all." 
Psalms38:10 My heart beats wildly, my strength is sapped, and the light of my eyes is going out. My friends stay far away from me, avoiding me like the plague. Even my family wants nothing to do with me." 
Psalms38:11  
Psalms38:12 Meanwhile my enemies are out to kill me, plotting my ruin, speaking of my doom as they spend every waking moment planning how to finish me off." 
Psalms38:13 I’m like a deaf man who no longer hears. I can’t even speak up, and words fail me; I have no argument to counter their threats." 
Psalms38:14  
Psalms38:15 Lord, the only thing I can do is wait and put my hope in you. I wait for your help, my God." 
Psalms38:16 So hear my cry and put an end to their strutting in pride, to those who gloat when I stumble in pain." 
Psalms38:17 I’m slipping away and on the verge of a breakdown, with nothing but sorrow and sighing." 
Psalms38:18 I confess all my sin to you; I can’t hold it in any longer. My agonizing thoughts punish me for my wrongdoing; I feel condemned as I consider all I’ve done. 
Psalms38:19 My enemies are many. They hate me and persecute me, though I’ve done nothing against them to deserve it." 
Psalms38:20 I show goodness to them and get paid evil in return. And they hate me even more when I stand for what is right. 
Psalms38:21 So don’t forsake me now, Lord! Don’t leave me in this condition." 
Psalms38:22 God, hurry to help me. Run to my rescue! For you’re my Savior and my only hope!" 
Psalms39:1 Here’s my life motto, the truth I live by: I will guard my ways for all my days. I will speak only what is right, guarding what I speak. Like a watchman guards against an attack of the enemy, I’ll guard and muzzle my mouth when the wicked are around me. I will remain silent and will not grumble or speak out of my disappointment. But the longer I’m silent, the more my pain grows worse!" 
Psalms39:2  
Psalms39:3 My heart burned with a fire within me, and my thoughts eventually boiled over until they finally came rolling out of my mouth: “Lord, help me to know how fleeting my time on earth is. Help me to know how limited is my life and that I’m only here but for a moment more." 
Psalms39:4  
Psalms39:5 What a brief time you’ve given me to live! Compared to you my lifetime is nothing at all! Nothing more than a puff of air—I’m gone so swiftly. So too are the grandest of men; they are nothing but a fleeting shadow!” 
Psalms39:6 We live our lives like those living in shadows. All our activities and energies are spent for things that pass away. We gather, we hoard, we cling to our things, only to leave them all behind for who knows who." 
Psalms39:7 And now, God, I’m left with one conclusion: my only hope is to hope in you alone!" 
Psalms39:8 Save me from being overpowered by my sin; don’t make me a disgrace before the degenerate. 
Psalms39:9 Lord, I’m left speechless and I have no excuse, so I’ll not complain any longer. Now I know you’re the one who is behind it all." 
Psalms39:10 But I can’t take it much longer. Spare me these blows from your discipline-rod. For if you are against me, I will waste away to nothing." 
Psalms39:11 No one endures when you rebuke and discipline us for our sins. Like a cobweb is swept away with a wave of the hand, you sweep away all that we once called dear. How fleeting and frail our lives! We’re nothing more than a puff of air." 
Psalms39:12 Lord, listen to all my tender cries. Read my every tear, like liquid words that plead for your help. I feel all alone at times, like a stranger to you, passing through this life just like all those before me." 
Psalms39:13 Don’t let me die without restoring joy and gladness to my soul. May your frown over my failure become a smile over my success. 
Psalms40:1 I waited and waited and waited some more, patiently, knowing God would come through for me. Then, at last, he bent down and listened to my cry." 
Psalms40:2 He stooped down to lift me out of danger from the desolate pit I was in, out of the muddy mess I had fallen into. Now he’s lifted me up into a firm, secure place and steadied me while I walk along his ascending path." 
Psalms40:3 A new song for a new day rises up in me every time I think about how he breaks through for me! Ecstatic praise pours out of my mouth until everyone hears how God has set me free. Many will see his miracles; they’ll stand in awe of God and fall in love with him! 
Psalms40:4 Blessing after blessing comes to those who love and trust the Lord. They will not fall away, for they refuse to listen to the lies of the proud." 
Psalms40:5 O Lord, our God, no one can compare with you. Such wonderful works and miracles are all found with you! And you think of us all the time with your countless expressions of love— far exceeding our expectations!" 
Psalms40:6 It’s not sacrifices that really move your heart. Burnt offerings, sin offerings—those aren’t what bring you joy. But when you open my ears and speak to me, I become your willing servant, your prisoner of love for life." 
Psalms40:7 So I said, “Here I am! I’m coming to you as a sacrifice, for in the prophetic scrolls of your book you have written about me." 
Psalms40:8 I delight to fulfill your will, my God, for your living words are written upon the pages of my heart.”" 
Psalms40:9 I tell everyone everywhere the truth of your righteousness. And you know I haven’t held back in telling the message to all. 
Psalms40:10 I don’t keep it a secret or hide the truth. I preach of your faithfulness and kindness, proclaiming your extravagant love to the largest crowd I can find!" 
Psalms40:11 So Lord, don’t hold back your love or withhold your tender mercies from me. Keep me in your truth and let your compassion overflow to me no matter what I face." 
Psalms40:12 Evil surrounds me; problems greater than I can solve come one after another. Without you, I know I can’t make it. My sins are so many! I’m so ashamed to lift my face to you. For my guilt grabs me and stings my soul until I am weakened and spent." 
Psalms40:13 Please, Lord! Come quickly and rescue me! Take pleasure in showing me your favor and restore me." 
Psalms40:14 Let all who seek my life be humiliated! Let them be confused and ashamed, God. Scatter those who wish me evil; they just want me dead." 
Psalms40:15 Scoff at every scoffer and cause them all to be utter failures. Let them be ashamed and horrified by their complete defeat. 
Psalms40:16 But let all who passionately seek you erupt with excitement and joy over what you’ve done! Let all your devoted lovers rejoice continually in the Savior, saying, “How great and glorious is our God!”" 
Psalms40:17 Lord, in my place of weakness and need, I ask again: Will you come and help me? I know I’m always in your thoughts. You are my true Savior and hero, so don’t delay to deliver me now, for you are my God." 
Psalms41:1 God always blesses those who are kind to the poor and helpless. They’re the first ones God helps when they find themselves in any trouble. 
Psalms41:2 The Lord will preserve and protect them. They’ll be honored and esteemed while their enemies are defeated. 
Psalms41:3 When they are sick, lying upon their bed of suffering, God will restore them. He will raise them up again and restore them back to health." 
Psalms41:4 So in my sickness I say to you, “Lord, be my kind healer. Heal my body and soul; heal me, God! For I have confessed my sins to you.”" 
Psalms41:5 But those who hate me wish the worst for me, saying, “When will he die and be forgotten?”" 
Psalms41:6 And when these “friends” come to visit me with their pious sympathy and their hollow words and with hypocrisy hidden in their hearts, I can see right through it all. For they come merely to gather gossip about me, using all they find to mock me with malicious hearts of slander." 
Psalms41:7 They are wicked whisperers who imagine the worst for me, repeating their rumors, saying," 
Psalms41:8 “He got what he deserved; it’s over for him! The spirit of infirmity is upon him, and he’ll never get over this illness.”" 
Psalms41:9 Even my ally, my friend, has turned against me. He was one I totally trusted with my life, sharing supper with him, and now he shows me nothing but betrayal and treachery. He has sold me as an enemy." 
Psalms41:10 So Lord, please don’t desert me when I need you! Give me grace and get me back on my feet so I can triumph over them all." 
Psalms41:11 Then I’ll know you’re pleased with me when you allow me to taste victory over all my foes. 
Psalms41:12 Now stand up for me and don’t let me fall, for I’ve walked with integrity. Keep me before your face forever." 
Psalms41:13 Everyone praise the Lord God of Israel, always and forever! For he is from eternity past and will remain for the eternity to come. That’s the way it will be forever. Faithful is our King! Amen!" 
Psalms42:1 I long to drink of you, O God, to drink deeply from the streams of pleasure flowing from your presence. My longings overwhelm me for more of you!" 
Psalms42:2 My soul thirsts, pants, and longs for the living God. I want to come and see the face of God." 
Psalms42:3 Day and night my tears keep falling and my heart keeps crying for your help, while my enemies mock me over and over, saying, “Where is this God of yours? Why doesn’t he help you? ”" 
Psalms42:4 So I speak over my heartbroken soul, “Take courage. Remember when you used to be right out front leading the procession of praise when the great crowd of worshipers gathered to go into the presence of the Lord? You shouted with joy as the sound of passionate celebration filled the air and the joyous multitude of lovers honored the feast of the Lord!”" 
Psalms42:5 So then, my soul, why would you be depressed? Why would you sink into despair? Just keep hoping and waiting on God, your Savior. For no matter what, I will still sing with praise, for you are my saving grace!" 
Psalms42:6 Here I am depressed and downcast. Yet I will still remember you as I ponder the place where your glory streams down from the mighty mountaintops, lofty and majestic— the mountains of your awesome presence." 
Psalms42:7 My deep need calls out to the deep kindness of your love. Your waterfall of weeping sent waves of sorrow over my soul, carrying me away, cascading over me like a thundering cataract." 
Psalms42:8 All through the day Yahweh has commanded his endless love to pour over me. Through the night I sing his songs and my praises to the living God. 
Psalms42:9 I will say to God, “You are my mountain of strength; how could you forget me? Why must I suffer this vile oppression of my enemies— these heartless tormentors who are out to kill me?”" 
Psalms42:10 Their wounding words pierce my heart over and over while they say, “Where is this God of yours?”" 
Psalms42:11 So I say to my soul, “Don’t be discouraged. Don’t be disturbed. For I know my God will break through for me.” Then I’ll have plenty of reasons to praise him all over again. Yes, he is my saving grace!" 
Psalms43:1 God, clear my name. Plead my case against the unjust charges of these ungodly workers of wickedness. Deliver me from these lying degenerates." 
Psalms43:2 For you are where my strength comes from and my protector, so why would you leave me now? Must I be covered with gloom while the enemy comes after me, gloating with glee?" 
Psalms43:3 Pour into me the brightness of your daybreak! Pour into me your rays of revelation-truth! Let them comfort and gently lead me onto the shining path, showing the way into your burning presence, into your many sanctuaries of holiness." 
Psalms43:4 Then I will come closer to your very altar until I come before you, the God of my ecstatic joy! I will praise you with the harp that plays in my heart to you, my God, my magnificent God!" 
Psalms43:5 Then I will say to my soul, “Don’t be discouraged; don’t be disturbed, for I fully expect my Savior-God to break through for me. Then I’ll have plenty of reasons to praise him all over again.” Yes, he is my saving grace!" 
Psalms44:1 God, we’ve heard about all the glorious miracles you’ve done for our ancestors in days gone by. They told us about the ancient times, how by your power you drove out the ungodly nations from this land, crushing all their strongholds and giving the land to us. Now the people of Israel cover the land from one end to the other, all because of your grace and power!" 
Psalms44:2  
Psalms44:3 Our forefathers didn’t take the land by their own strength or their own skill or strategy. But it was through the shining forth of your radiant presence and the display of your mighty power. You loved to give them victory, for you took great delight in them." 
Psalms44:4 You are my God, my King! It’s now time to decree majesties for Jacob!" 
Psalms44:5 Through your glorious name and your awesome power, we can push through to any victory and defeat every enemy." 
Psalms44:6 For I will not trust in the weapons of the world; I know they will never save me. 
Psalms44:7 Only you will be our Savior from all our enemies. All those who hate us you have brought to shame. 
Psalms44:8 So now I constantly boast in you. I can never thank you enough! 
Psalms44:9 But you have turned your back on us; you walked off and left us! You’ve rejected us, tossing us aside in humiliating shame. You don’t go before us anymore in our battles." 
Psalms44:10 We retreat before our enemies in defeat, for you are no longer helping us. Those who hate us have invaded our land and plundered our people." 
Psalms44:11 You have treated us like sheep in the slaughter pen, ready to be butchered. You’ve scattered us to the four winds." 
Psalms44:12 You have sold us as slaves for nothing! You have counted us, your precious ones, as worthless." 
Psalms44:13 You have caused our neighbors to despise and scorn us. All those around us mock and curse us. 
Psalms44:14 You have made us the butt of their jokes. Disliked by all, we are the laughingstock of the people." 
Psalms44:15 There’s no escape from this constant curse, this humiliation! We are despised, jeered, overwhelmed by shame, and overcome at every turn by our hateful and heartless enemies." 
Psalms44:16  
Psalms44:17 Despite all of this, we have not forgotten you; we have not broken covenant with you." 
Psalms44:18 We have not betrayed you; our hearts are still yours. Our steps have not strayed from your path. 
Psalms44:19 Yet you have crushed us, leaving us in this wilderness place of misery and desperation. With nowhere else to turn, death’s dark door seems to be the only way out." 
Psalms44:20 If we had forsaken your holy name, wouldn’t you know it? You’d be right in leaving us. If we had worshiped before other gods, no one would blame you for punishing us. God, you know our every heart-secret. You know we still want you!" 
Psalms44:21  
Psalms44:22 Because of you we face death threats every day. Like martyrs we are dying daily. We are seen as lambs lined up to be slaughtered as sacrifices. 
Psalms44:23 So wake up, Lord God! Why would you sleep when we’re in trouble? Are you forsaking us forever?" 
Psalms44:24 You can’t hide your face any longer from us! How could you forget our agonizing sorrow? 
Psalms44:25 Now we lay facedown, sinking into the dust of death, the quicksand of the grave." 
Psalms44:26 Arise, awake, and come to help us, O Lord. Let your unfailing love save us from this sorrow!" 
Psalms45:1 My heart is on fire, boiling over with passion. Bubbling up within me are these beautiful lyrics as a lovely poem to be sung for the King. Like a river bursting its banks, I’m overflowing with words, spilling out into this sacred story." 
Psalms45:2 Beautiful! Beautiful! Beyond the sons of men! Elegant grace pours out through every word you speak. Truly God has anointed you, his favored one, for eternity!" 
Psalms45:3 Now strap your lightning-sword of judgment upon your side, O mighty warrior, so majestic! You are full of beauty and splendor as you go out to war!" 
Psalms45:4 In your glory and grandeur go forth in victory! Through your faithfulness and meekness the cause of truth and justice will stand. Awe-inspiring miracles are accomplished by your power, leaving everyone dazed and astonished!" 
Psalms45:5 Your wounding leaves men’s hearts defeated as they fall before you broken. 
Psalms45:6 Your glory-kingdom, O God, endures forever, for you are enthroned to rule with a justice-scepter in your hand!" 
Psalms45:7 You are passionate for righteousness, and you hate lawlessness. This is why God, your God, crowns you with bliss above your fellow kings. He has anointed you, more than any other, with his oil of fervent joy, the very fragrance of heaven’s gladness." 
Psalms45:8 Your royal robes release the scent of suffering love for your bride; the odor of aromatic incense is upon you. From the pure and shining place, lovely music that makes you glad is played for your pleasure." 
Psalms45:9 The daughters of kings, women of honor, are maidens in your courts. And standing beside you, glistening in your pure and golden glory, is the beautiful bride-to-be!" 
Psalms45:10 Now listen, daughter, pay attention, and forget about your past. Put behind you every attachment to the familiar, even those who once were close to you!" 
Psalms45:11 For your royal Bridegroom is ravished by your beautiful brightness. Bow in reverence before him, for he is your Lord!" 
Psalms45:12 Wedding presents pour in from those of great wealth. The royal friends of the Bridegroom shower you with gifts. 
Psalms45:13 As the princess-bride enters the palace, how glorious she appears within the holy chamber, robed with a wedding dress embroidered with pure gold!" 
Psalms45:14 Lovely and stunning, she leads the procession with all her bridesmaids as they come before you, her Bridegroom-King." 
Psalms45:15 What a grand, majestic entrance! A joyful, glad procession as they enter the palace gates!" 
Psalms45:16 Your many sons will one day be kings, just like their Father. They will sit on royal thrones all around the world." 
Psalms45:17 I will make sure the fame of your name is honored in every generation, as all the people praise you, giving you thanks forever and ever!" 
Psalms46:1 God, you’re such a safe and powerful place to find refuge! You’re a proven help in time of trouble— more than enough and always available whenever I need you." 
Psalms46:2 So we will never fear even if every structure of support were to crumble away. We will not fear even when the earth quakes and shakes, moving mountains and casting them into the sea." 
Psalms46:3 For the raging roar of stormy winds and crashing waves cannot erode our faith in you. 
Psalms46:4 God has a constantly flowing river whose sparkling streams bring joy and delight to his people. His river flows right through the city of God Most High, into his holy dwelling places." 
Psalms46:5 God is in the midst of his city, secure and never shaken. At daybreak his help will be seen with the appearing of the dawn." 
Psalms46:6 When the nations are in uproar with their tottering kingdoms, God simply raises his voice, and the earth begins to disintegrate before him." 
Psalms46:7 Here he comes! The Commander! The mighty Lord of Angel Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob fights for us! 
Psalms46:8 Everyone look! Come and see the breathtaking wonders of our God. For he brings both ruin and revival. He’s the one who makes conflicts end throughout the earth, breaking and burning every weapon of war." 
Psalms46:9  
Psalms46:10 Surrender your anxiety. Be still and realize that I am God. I am God above all the nations, and I am exalted throughout the whole earth." 
Psalms46:11 Here he stands! The Commander! The mighty Lord of Angel Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob fights for us! 
Psalms47:1 Go ahead and celebrate! Come on and clap your hands, everyone! Shout to God with the raucous sounds of joy!" 
Psalms47:2 The Lord God Most High is astonishing, awesome beyond words! He’s the formidable and powerful King over all the earth." 
Psalms47:3 He’s the one who conquered the nations before us and placed them all under our feet. 
Psalms47:4 He’s marked out our inheritance ahead of time, putting us in the front of the line, honoring Jacob, the one he loves." 
Psalms47:5 God arises with the earsplitting shout of his people! God goes up with a trumpet blast! 
Psalms47:6 Sing and celebrate! Sing some more, celebrate some more! Sing your highest song of praise to our King!" 
Psalms47:7 For God is the triumphant King; all the powers of the earth are his. So sing your celebration songs of highest praise to the glorious Enlightened One! 
Psalms47:8 Our God reigns over every nation. He reigns on his holy throne over all. 
Psalms47:9 All the nobles and princes, the loving servants of the God of Abraham, they all gather to worship. Every warrior’s shield is now lowered as surrendered trophies before this King. He has taken his throne, high and lofty, exalted over all!" 
Psalms48:1 There are so many reasons to describe God as wonderful! So many reasons to praise him with unlimited praise! 
Psalms48:2 Zion-City is his home; he lives on his holy mountain— high and glorious, joy-filled and favored. Zion-Mountain looms in the farthest reaches of the north, the city of our incomparable King!" 
Psalms48:3 This is his divine abode, an impenetrable citadel, for he is known to dwell in the highest place." 
Psalms48:4 See how the mighty kings united to come against Zion, yet when they saw God manifest in front of their eyes, they were stunned. Trembling, they all fled away, gripped with fear. Seized with panic, they doubled up in frightful anguish, like a woman in the labor pains of childbirth." 
Psalms48:5  
Psalms48:6  
Psalms48:7 Like a hurricane blowing and breaking the invading ships, God blows upon them and breaks them to pieces." 
Psalms48:8 We have heard about these wonders, and then we saw them with our own eyes. For this is the city of the Commander of Angel Armies, the city of our God, safe and secure forever!" 
Psalms48:9 Lord, as we worship you in your temple, we recall over and over your kindness to us and your unending love." 
Psalms48:10 The fame of your name echoes throughout the entire world, accompanied with praises. Your right hand is full of victory." 
Psalms48:11 So let the people of Zion rejoice with gladness; let the daughters of praise leap for joy! For God will see to it that you are judged fairly. 
Psalms48:12 Circle Zion; count her towers. Consider her walls, climb her palaces, and then go and tell the coming generation of the care and compassion of our God." 
Psalms48:13  
Psalms48:14 Yes, this is our God, our great God forever. He will lead us onward until the end, through all time, beyond death, and into eternity!" 
Psalms49:1 Listen, one and all! Both rich and poor together, all over the world— everyone listen to what I have to say!" 
Psalms49:2  
Psalms49:3 For wisdom will come from my mouth; words of insight and understanding will be heard from the musings of my heart. 
Psalms49:4 I will break open mysteries with my music, and my song will release riddles solved." 
Psalms49:5 There’s no reason to fear when troubling times come, even when you’re surrounded with problems and persecutors who chase at your heels." 
Psalms49:6 They trust in their treasures and boast in their riches, yet not one of them, though rich as a king, could rescue his own brother from the guilt of his sins. No one could give God the ransom price for the soul of another, let alone for himself." 
Psalms49:7  
Psalms49:8 A soul’s redemption is too costly and precious for anyone to pay with earthly wealth. The price to pay is never enough to purchase eternal life for even one, to keep them out of hell." 
Psalms49:9  
Psalms49:10 The brightest and best, along with the foolish and senseless, God sees that they all will die one day, leaving their houses and wealth to others. Even though they name streets and lands after themselves, hoping to have their memory endure beyond the grave, becoming legends in their own minds, their home address is now the cemetery!" 
Psalms49:11  
Psalms49:12 The honor of man is short-lived and fleeting. There’s little difference between man and beast, for both will one day perish." 
Psalms49:13 Such is the path of foolish men and those who quote everything they say, for they are here today and gone tomorrow!" 
Psalms49:14 A shepherd called “Death” herds them, leading them straight to hell like mindless sheep. Yet at daybreak you will find the righteous ruling in their place. Every trace of them will be gone forever, with all their “glory” lost in the darkness of their doom." 
Psalms49:15 But I know the loving God will redeem my soul, raising me up from the dark power of death, taking me as his bridal partner." 
Psalms49:16 So don’t be disturbed when you see the rich surround you with the “glory” of their wealth on full display. 
Psalms49:17 For when they die, they will carry nothing with them, and their riches will not follow them beyond the grave." 
Psalms49:18 Though they have the greatest rewards of this world and all applaud them for their accomplishments, they will follow those who have gone before them and go straight into the realm of darkness, where they will never ever see the light again." 
Psalms49:19  
Psalms49:20 So this is the way of mortal man— honored for a moment, yet without eternal insight, like a beast that will one day perish." 
Psalms50:1 The God of gods, the mighty Lord himself, has spoken! He shouts out over all the people of the earth in every brilliant sunrise and every beautiful sunset, saying, “Listen to me!”" 
Psalms50:2 God’s glory-light shines out of the Zion-realm with the radiance of perfect beauty. 
Psalms50:3 With the rumble of thunder he approaches; he will not be silent, for he comes with an earsplitting sound! All around him are furious flames of fire, and preceding him is the dazzling blaze of his glory." 
Psalms50:4 Here he comes to judge his people! He summons his court with heaven and earth as his jury, saying," 
Psalms50:5 “Gather all my devoted lovers, my godly ones whose hearts are one with me— those who have entered into my holy covenant by sacrifices upon the altar.”" 
Psalms50:6 And the heavens declare his justice: “God himself will be their judge, and he will judge them with righteousness!”" 
Psalms50:7 “Listen to me, O my people! Listen well, for I am your God! I am bringing you to trial, and here are my charges." 
Psalms50:8 I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices, which you continually bring to my altar." 
Psalms50:9 Do I need your young bulls or goats from your fields as if I were hungry? 
Psalms50:10 Every animal of field and forest belongs to me, the Creator. I know every movement of the birds in the sky, and every animal of the field is in my thoughts. The entire world and everything it contains is mine." 
Psalms50:11  
Psalms50:12 If I were hungry, do you think I would tell you? For all that I have created, the fullness of the earth, is mine. Am I fed by your sacrifices? Of course not!" 
Psalms50:13  
Psalms50:14 Why don’t you bring me the sacrifices I desire? Bring me your true and sincere thanks, and show your gratitude by keeping your promises to me, the Most High." 
Psalms50:15 Honor me by trusting in me in your day of trouble. Cry aloud to me, and I will be there to rescue you." 
Psalms50:16 And now I speak to the wicked. Listen to what I have to say to you! What right do you have to presume to speak for me and claim my covenant promises as yours? 
Psalms50:17 For you have hated my instruction and disregarded my words, throwing them away as worthless!" 
Psalms50:18 You forget to condemn the thief or adulterer. You are their friend, running alongside them into darkness." 
Psalms50:19 The sins of your mouth multiply evil. You have a lifestyle of lies; you are devoted to deceit as you speak against others, even slandering those of your own household!" 
Psalms50:20  
Psalms50:21 All this you have done and I kept silent, so you thought that I was just like you, sanctioning evil. But now I will bring you to my courtroom and spell out clearly my charges before you." 
Psalms50:22 This is your last chance, my final warning. Your time is up! Turn away from all this evil, or the next time you hear from me will be when I am coming to pass judgment upon you. I will snatch you away, and no one will be there to help you escape my judgment." 
Psalms50:23 The life that pleases me is a life lived in the gratitude of grace, always choosing to walk with me in what is right. This is the sacrifice I desire from you. If you do this, more of my salvation will unfold for you.”" 
Psalms51:1 God, give me mercy from your fountain of forgiveness! I know your abundant love is enough to wash away my guilt. Because your compassion is so great, take away this shameful guilt of sin. Forgive the full extent of my rebellious ways, and erase this deep stain on my conscience." 
Psalms51:2  
Psalms51:3 For I’m so ashamed. I feel such pain and anguish within me. I can’t get away from the sting of my sin against you, Lord! Everything I did, I did right in front of you, for you saw it all. Against you, and you above all, have I sinned. Everything you say to me is infallibly true and your judgment conquers me." 
Psalms51:4  
Psalms51:5 Lord, I have been a sinner from birth, from the moment my mother conceived me." 
Psalms51:6 I know that you delight to set your truth deep in my spirit. So come into the hidden places of my heart and teach me wisdom. 
Psalms51:7 Purify my conscience! Make this leper clean again! Wash me in your love until I am pure in heart. 
Psalms51:8 Satisfy me in your sweetness, and my song of joy will return. The places you have crushed within me will rejoice in your healing touch." 
Psalms51:9 Hide my sins from your face; erase all my guilt by your saving grace. 
Psalms51:10 Keep creating in me a clean heart. Fill me with pure thoughts and holy desires, ready to please you." 
Psalms51:11 May you never reject me! May you never take from me your sacred Spirit! 
Psalms51:12 Let my passion for life be restored, tasting joy in every breakthrough you bring to me. Hold me close to you with a willing spirit that obeys whatever you say." 
Psalms51:13 Then I can show other guilty ones how loving and merciful you are. They will find their way back home to you, knowing that you will forgive them." 
Psalms51:14 O God, my saving God, deliver me fully from every sin, even the sin that brought bloodguilt. Then my heart will once again be thrilled to sing the passionate songs of joy and deliverance!" 
Psalms51:15 Lord God, unlock my heart, unlock my lips, and I will overcome with my joyous praise!" 
Psalms51:16 For the source of your pleasure is not in my performance or the sacrifices I might offer to you. 
Psalms51:17 The fountain of your pleasure is found in the sacrifice of my shattered heart before you. You will not despise my tenderness as I bow down humbly at your feet. 
Psalms51:18 Because you favor Zion, do what is good for her. Be the protecting wall around Jerusalem." 
Psalms51:19 And when we are fully restored, you will rejoice and take delight in every offering of our lives as we bring our sacrifices of righteousness before you in love!" 
Psalms52:1 You call yourself a mighty man, a big shot? Why do you boast in the evil you have done? Yet God’s loyal love will protect me and carry the day!" 
Psalms52:2 Listen, O deceiver, trickster of others: Your words are wicked, harming and hurting all who hear them." 
Psalms52:3 You love evil and hate what is good and right. You would rather lie than tell the truth. 
Psalms52:4 You love to distort, devour, and deceive, using your sly tongue to spin the truth." 
Psalms52:5 But the Almighty will strike you down forever! He will pull you up by your roots and drag you away to the darkness of death. 
Psalms52:6 The godly will see all this and will be awestruck. Then they will laugh at the wicked, saying," 
Psalms52:7 “See what happens to those great in their own eyes who don’t trust in the Most High to save them! Look how they trusted only in their wealth and made their living from wickedness.” 
Psalms52:8 But I am like a flourishing olive tree, anointed in the house of God. I trust in the unending love of God; his passion toward me is forever and ever." 
Psalms52:9 Because it is finished, I will praise you forever and give you thanks. Before all your godly lovers I will proclaim your beautiful name!" 
Psalms53:1 Only the withering soul would say to himself, “There’s no God for me!” Anyone who thinks like that is corrupt and callous; depraved and detestable, they are devoid of what is good." 
Psalms53:2 The Lord looks down in love, bending over heaven’s balcony. God looks over all of Adam’s sons and daughters, looking to see if there are any who are wise with insight— any who search for him, wanting to please him." 
Psalms53:3 But no, all have wandered astray, walking stubbornly toward evil. Not one is good; he can’t even find one!" 
Psalms53:4 Look how they live in luxury while exploiting my people. Won’t these workers of wickedness ever learn! They never even think of praying to God. 
Psalms53:5 Soon, unheard-of terror will seize them while in their sins. God himself will one day scatter the bones of those who rose up against you. Doomed and rejected, they will be put to shame, for God has despised them." 
Psalms53:6 Oh, I wish our time of rescue were already here. Oh, that God would come forth now — arising from the midst of his Zion-people to save and restore his very own. When God fully restores his people, Jacob will rejoice, and Israel will be filled with gladness!" 
Psalms54:1 God, deliver me by your mighty name! Come with your glorious power and save me!" 
Psalms54:2 Listen to my prayer; turn your ears to my cry! 
Psalms54:3 These violent men have risen up against me; heartless, ruthless men who care nothing about God seek to take my life." 
Psalms54:4 But the Lord God has become my divine helper. He leans into my heart and lays his hands upon me! 
Psalms54:5 God will see to it that those who sow evil will reap evil. So Lord, in your great faithfulness, destroy them once and for all!" 
Psalms54:6 Lord, I will offer myself freely, and everything I am I give to you. I will worship and praise your name, O Lord, for it is precious to me." 
Psalms54:7 Through you I’m saved—rescued from every trouble. I’ve seen with my eyes the defeat of my enemies. I’ve triumphed over them all! 
Psalms55:1 God, listen to my prayer! Don’t hide your heart from me when I cry out to you!" 
Psalms55:2 Come close to me and give me your answer. Here I am, moaning and restless. I’m preoccupied with the threats of my enemies and crushed by the pressure of their opposition. They surround me with trouble and terror. In their fury they rise up against me in an angry uproar." 
Psalms55:3  
Psalms55:4 My heart is trembling inside my chest as the terror of death seizes me. 
Psalms55:5 Fear and dread overwhelm me. I shudder before the horror I face. 
Psalms55:6 I say to myself, “If only I could fly away from all of this! If only I could run away to the place of rest and peace." 
Psalms55:7 I would run far away where no one could find me, escaping to a wilderness retreat.”" 
Psalms55:8 I will hurry off to hide in the higher place, into my shelter, safe from this raging storm and tempest." 
Psalms55:9 God, confuse them until they quarrel with themselves. Destroy them with their own violent strife and slander. They have divided the city with their discord." 
Psalms55:10 Though they patrol the walls night and day against invaders, the real danger is within the city— the misery and strife in the hearts of its people." 
Psalms55:11 Murder is in their midst. Wherever you turn, you find trouble and ruin." 
Psalms55:12 It wasn’t an enemy who taunted me. If it was my enemy, filled with pride and hatred, then I could have endured it. I would have just run away." 
Psalms55:13 But it was you, my intimate friend—one like a brother to me. It was you, my adviser, the companion I walked with and worked with!" 
Psalms55:14 We once had sweet fellowship with each other. We worshiped in unity as one, celebrating together with God’s people." 
Psalms55:15 Now desolation and darkness has come upon you. May you and all those like you descend into the pit of destruction! Since evil has been your home, may evil now bury you alive!" 
Psalms55:16 But as for me, I will call upon the Lord to save me, and I know he will!" 
Psalms55:17 Every evening I will explain my need to him. Every morning I will move my soul toward him. Every waking hour I will worship only him, and he will hear and respond to my cry." 
Psalms55:18 Though many wish to fight and the tide of battle turns against me, by your power I will be safe and secure; peace will be my portion." 
Psalms55:19 God himself will hear me! God-Enthroned through everlasting ages, the God of unchanging faithfulness— he will put them in their place, all those who refuse to love and revere him!" 
Psalms55:20 I was betrayed by my friend, though I lived in peace with him. While he was stretching out his hand of friendship, he was secretly breaking every promise he had ever made to me!" 
Psalms55:21 His words were smooth and charming. Yet his heart was disloyal and full of hatred— his words soft as silk while all the time scheming my demise. 
Psalms55:22 So here’s what I’ve learned through it all: Leave all your cares and anxieties at the feet of the Lord, and measureless grace will strengthen you." 
Psalms55:23 He will watch over his devoted lovers, never letting them slip or be overthrown. He will send all my enemies to the pit of destruction. Murderers, liars, and betrayers will face an untimely death. My life’s hope and trust is in you, and you’ll never fail to rescue me!" 
Psalms56:1 Lord, show me your kindness and mercy, for these men oppose and oppress me all day long." 
Psalms56:2 Not a day goes by without somebody harassing me. So many in their pride trample me under their feet. 
Psalms56:3 But in the day that I’m afraid, I lay all my fears before you and trust in you with all my heart." 
Psalms56:4 What harm could a man bring to me? With God on my side, I will not be afraid of what comes. The roaring praises of God fill my heart as I trust his promises." 
Psalms56:5 Day after day cruel critics distort my words; constantly they plot my collapse. 
Psalms56:6 They lurk in the dark, waiting, spying on my movements in secret to take me by surprise, ready to take my life." 
Psalms56:7 They don’t deserve to get away with this! Look at their wickedness, their injustice, Lord. In your fierce anger cast them down to defeat." 
Psalms56:8 You’ve kept track of all my wandering and my weeping. You’ve stored my many tears in your bottle—not one will be lost. For they are all recorded in your book of remembrance. 
Psalms56:9 The very moment I call to you for a father’s help the tide of battle turns and my enemies flee. This one thing I know: God is on my side! 
Psalms56:10 I trust in the Lord. And I praise him! I trust in the Word of God. And I praise him! 
Psalms56:11 What harm could man do to me? With God on my side, I will not be afraid of what comes. My heart overflows with praise to God and for his promises. I will always trust in him." 
Psalms56:12 So I’m thanking you with all my heart, with gratitude for all you’ve done. I will do everything I’ve promised you, Lord." 
Psalms56:13 For you have saved my soul from death and my feet from stumbling so that I can walk before the Lord bathed in his life-giving light. 
Psalms57:1 Please, God, show me mercy! Open your grace-fountain for me, for you are my soul’s true shelter. I will hide beneath the shadow of your embrace, under the wings of your cherubim, until this terrible trouble is past." 
Psalms57:2 I will cry out to you, the God of the highest heaven, the mighty God, who performs all these wonders for me." 
Psalms57:3 From heaven he will send a father’s help to save me. He will trample down those who trample me. He will always show me love by his gracious and constant care. 
Psalms57:4 I am surrounded by these fierce and brutal men. They are like lions just wanting to tear me to shreds. Why must I continue to live among these seething terrorists, breathing out their angry threats and insults against me?" 
Psalms57:5 Lord God, be exalted as you soar throughout the heavens. May your shining glory be seen in the skies! Let it be seen high above over all the earth!" 
Psalms57:6 For they have set a trap for me. Frantic fear has me overwhelmed. But look! The very trap they set for me has sprung shut upon themselves instead of me! 
Psalms57:7 My heart, O God, is quiet and confident. Now I can sing with passion your wonderful praises!" 
Psalms57:8 Awake, O my soul, with the music of his splendor-song! Arise, my soul, and sing his praises! My worship will awaken the dawn, greeting the daybreak with my songs of praise!" 
Psalms57:9 Wherever I go, I will thank you, my God. Among all the nations they will hear my praise songs to you." 
Psalms57:10 Your love is so extravagant it reaches to the heavens; your faithfulness so astonishing it stretches to the sky! 
Psalms57:11 Lord God, be exalted as you soar throughout the heavens. May your shining glory be shown in the skies! Let it be seen high above all the earth!" 
Psalms58:1 God’s justice? You high and mighty politicians know nothing about it! Which one of you has walked in justice toward others? Which one of you has treated everyone right and fair? Not one! You only give “justice” in exchange for a bribe. For the right price you let others get away with murder. 
Psalms58:2  
Psalms58:3 Wicked wanderers even from the womb—that’s who you are! You lie with your words, and your teaching is poison." 
Psalms58:4  
Psalms58:5 Like cobras closing their ears to the most expert of the charmers, you strike out against all who are near." 
Psalms58:6 O God, break their fangs; shatter the teeth of these ravenous lions!" 
Psalms58:7 Let them disappear like water falling on thirsty ground. Let all their weapons be useless. 
Psalms58:8 Let them be like snails dissolving into the slime. Let them be cut off, never seeing the light of day!" 
Psalms58:9 God will sweep them away so fast that they’ll never know what hit them. 
Psalms58:10 The godly will celebrate in the triumph of good over evil, and the lovers of God will trample the wickedness of the wicked under their feet!" 
Psalms58:11 Then everyone will say, “There is a God who judges the judges” and “There is a great reward in loving God!”" 
Psalms59:1 My God, protect me! Keep me safe from all my enemies, for they’re coming to kill me. Put me in a high place out of their reach— a place so high that these assassins will never find me." 
Psalms59:2 Save me from these murdering men, these bloodthirsty killers." 
Psalms59:3 See how they set an ambush for my life. They’re fierce men ready to launch their attack against me. O Lord, I’m innocent; protect me!" 
Psalms59:4 I’ve done nothing to deserve this, yet they are already plotting together to kill me. Arise, Lord, see what they’re scheming, and come and meet with me." 
Psalms59:5 Awaken, O God of Israel! Commander of Angel Armies, arise to punish these treacherous people who oppose you! Don’t go soft on these hard-core killers!" 
Psalms59:6 After dark they came to spy, sneaking around the city, snarling, prowling like a pack of stray dogs in the night—" 
Psalms59:7 boiling over with rage, shouting out their curses, convinced that they’ll never get caught." 
Psalms59:8 But you, Lord, break out laughing at their plans, amused by their arrogance, scoffing at their sinful ways." 
Psalms59:9 My strength is found when I wait upon you. Watch over me, God, for you are my mountain fortress; you set me on high!" 
Psalms59:10 The God of passionate love will meet with me. My God will empower me to rise in triumph over my foes. 
Psalms59:11 Don’t kill them; stagger them all with a vivid display of power and scatter them with your armies of angels, O mighty God, our protector! Use your awesome power to make them wanderers and vagabonds and then bring them down." 
Psalms59:12 They are nothing but proud, cursing liars. They sin in every word they speak, boasting in their blasphemies!" 
Psalms59:13 May your wrath be kindled to destroy them; finish them off! Make an end of them and their deeds until they are no more! Let them all know and learn that God is the ruler over Jacob, the God-King over all the earth!" 
Psalms59:14 Here they come again— prowling, growling like a pack of stray dogs in the city." 
Psalms59:15 Drifting, devouring, and coming in for the kill, they refuse to sleep until they’ve eaten their fill." 
Psalms59:16 But as for me, your strength shall be my song of joy. At each and every sunrise, my lyrics of your love will fill the air! For you have been my glory-fortress, a stronghold in my day of distress." 
Psalms59:17 O my strength, I sing with joy your praises. O my stronghold, I sing with joy your song! O my Savior, I sing with joy the lyrics of your faithful love for me!" 
Psalms60:1 God, it seems like you walked off and left us! Why have you turned against us? You have been angry with us. O Lord, we plead, come back and help us as a father." 
Psalms60:2 The earth quivers and quakes before you, splitting open and breaking apart. Now come and heal it, for it is shaken to its depths." 
Psalms60:3 You have taught us hard lessons and made us drink the wine of bewilderment. 
Psalms60:4 You have given miraculous signs to those who love you. As we follow you, we fly the flag of truth, and all who love the truth will rally to it." 
Psalms60:5 Come to your beloved ones and gently draw us out. For Lord, you save those whom you love. Come with your might and strength!" 
Psalms60:6 Then I heard the Lord speak in his holy splendor. From his sanctuary I heard the Lord promise: “In my triumph I will be the one to measure out the portion of my inheritance to my people, and I will secure the land as I promised you. Shechem, Succoth, Gilead, Manasseh, they are all still mine!” he says. “Judah will continue to produce kings and lawgivers, and Ephraim will produce great warriors." 
Psalms60:7  
Psalms60:8 Moab will become my lowly servant. Edom will likewise serve my purposes. I will lift up a shout of victory over the land of Philistia! 
Psalms60:9 But who will bring my triumph into the strong city? Who will lead me into Edom’s fortresses?” 
Psalms60:10 Have you really rejected us, refusing to fight our battles?" 
Psalms60:11 Give us a father’s help when we face our enemies. For to trust in any man is an empty hope. 
Psalms60:12 With God’s help we will fight like heroes, and he will trample down our every foe!" 
Psalms61:1 O God, hear my prayer. Listen to my heart’s cry." 
Psalms61:2 For no matter where I am, even when I’m far from home, I will cry out to you for a father’s help. When I’m feeble and overwhelmed by life, guide me into your glory, where I am safe and sheltered." 
Psalms61:3 Lord, you are a paradise of protection to me. You lift me high above the fray. None of my foes can touch me when I’m held firmly in your wraparound presence!" 
Psalms61:4 Keep me in this glory. Let me live continually under your splendor-shadow, hiding my life in you forever." 
Psalms61:5 You have heard my sweet resolutions to love and serve you, for I am your beloved. And you have given me an inheritance of rich treasures, which you give to all your devoted lovers." 
Psalms61:6 You treat me like a king, giving me a full and abundant life, years and years of reigning, like many generations rolled into one." 
Psalms61:7 I will live enthroned with you forever! Guard me, God, with your unending, unfailing love. Let me live my days walking in grace and truth before you." 
Psalms61:8 And my praises will fill the heavens forever, fulfilling my vow to make every day a love-gift to you!" 
Psalms62:1 I stand silently to listen for the one I love, waiting as long as it takes for the Lord to rescue me. For God alone has become my Savior." 
Psalms62:2 He alone is my safe place; his wraparound presence always protects me. For he is my champion defender; there’s no risk of failure with God. So why would I let worry paralyze me, even when troubles multiply around me?" 
Psalms62:3 But look at these who want me dead, shouting their vicious threats at me! The moment they discover my weakness, they all begin plotting to take me down." 
Psalms62:4 Liars, hypocrites, with nothing good to say— all their energies are spent on moving me from this exalted place." 
Psalms62:5 I am standing in absolute stillness, silent before the one I love, waiting as long as it takes for him to rescue me. Only God is my Savior, and he will not fail me." 
Psalms62:6 For he alone is my safe place. His wraparound presence always protects me as my champion defender. There’s no risk of failure with God! So why would I let worry paralyze me, even when troubles multiply around me?" 
Psalms62:7 God’s glory is all around me! His wraparound presence is all I need, for the Lord is my Savior, my hero, and my life-giving strength." 
Psalms62:8 Trust only in God every moment! Tell him all your troubles and pour out your heart-longings to him. Believe me when I tell you—he will help you! 
Psalms62:9 Before God all the people of the earth, high or low, are like smoke that disappears, like a vapor that quickly vanishes away. Compared to God they’re nothing but vanity, nothing at all!" 
Psalms62:10 The wealth of the world is nothing to God. So if your wealth increases, don’t be boastful or put your trust in your money. And don’t you think for a moment that you can get away with stealing by overcharging others just to get more for yourself!" 
Psalms62:11 God said to me once and for all, “All the strength and power you need flows from me!” And again I heard it clearly said," 
Psalms62:12 “All the love you need is found in me!” And it’s true that you repay people for what they do. 
Psalms63:1 O God of my life, I’m lovesick for you in this weary wilderness. I thirst with the deepest longings to love you more, with cravings in my heart that can’t be described. Such yearning grips my soul for you, my God!" 
Psalms63:2 I’m energized every time I enter your heavenly sanctuary to seek more of your power and drink in more of your glory. 
Psalms63:3 For your tender mercies mean more to me than life itself. How I love and praise you, God!" 
Psalms63:4 Daily I will worship you passionately and with all my heart. My arms will wave to you like banners of praise. 
Psalms63:5 I overflow with praise when I come before you, for the anointing of your presence satisfies me like nothing else. You are such a rich banquet of pleasure to my soul." 
Psalms63:6 I lie awake each night thinking of you and reflecting on how you help me like a father. I sing through the night under your splendor-shadow, offering up to you my songs of delight and joy!" 
Psalms63:7  
Psalms63:8 With passion I pursue and cling to you. Because I feel your grip on my life, I keep my soul close to your heart." 
Psalms63:9 Those who plot to destroy me shall descend into the darkness of hell. 
Psalms63:10 They will be consumed by their own evil and become nothing more than dust under our feet. 
Psalms63:11 These liars will be silenced forever! But with the anointing of a king I will dance and rejoice along with all his devoted lovers who trust in him. 
Psalms64:1 Lord, can’t you hear my cry, my bitter complaint? Keep me safe from this band of criminals and from the conspiracy of these wicked men. They gather in their secret counsel to destroy me." 
Psalms64:2  
Psalms64:3 Can’t you hear their slander, their lies? Their words are like poison-tipped arrows shot from the shadows. They are unafraid and have no fear of consequences." 
Psalms64:4  
Psalms64:5 They persist with their evil plans and plot together to hide their traps. They boast, “No one can see us or stop us!”" 
Psalms64:6 They search out opportunities to pervert justice as they plan the “perfect crime.” How unsearchable is their endless evil! They try desperately to hide the deep darkness of their hearts. 
Psalms64:7 But all the while God has his own fire-tipped arrows! Suddenly, without warning, they will be pierced and struck down." 
Psalms64:8 Staggering backward, they will be destroyed by the very ones they spoke against. All who see this will view them with scorn." 
Psalms64:9 Then all will stand awestruck over what God has done, seeing how he vindicated the victims of these crimes." 
Psalms64:10 The lovers of God will be glad, rejoicing in the Lord. They will be found in his glorious wraparound presence, singing songs of praise to God!" 
Psalms65:1 O God in Zion, to you even silence is praise! You who answers prayer, all of humanity comes before you with their requests." 
Psalms65:2  
Psalms65:3 Though we are overcome by our many sins, your sacrifice covers over them all." 
Psalms65:4 How blessed is the one you choose to live near you in your courts. The beauty of your house, your holy temple, satisfies us." 
Psalms65:5 You answer our prayers with amazing wonders and with awe-inspiring displays of power. You are the righteous God who helps us like a father. Everyone everywhere looks to you, for you are the confidence of all the earth, even to the farthest islands of the sea." 
Psalms65:6 What jaw-dropping, astounding power is yours! You are the mountain maker who sets them all in place." 
Psalms65:7 You muzzle the roar of the mighty seas and the rage of mobs with their noisy riots. 
Psalms65:8 O God, to the farthest corners of the planet people will stand in awe, startled and stunned by your signs and wonders. Sunrise brilliance and sunset beauty both take turns singing their songs of joy to you." 
Psalms65:9 Your visitations of glory bless the earth; the rivers of God overflow and enrich it. You paint the wheat fields golden as you provide rich harvests. 
Psalms65:10 Every field is watered with the abundance of rain— showers soaking the earth and softening its clods, causing seeds to sprout throughout the land." 
Psalms65:11 You crown the earth with the fruits of your goodness. Wherever you go, the tracks of your chariot wheels drip with oil." 
Psalms65:12 Luxuriant green pastures boast of your bounty as you make every hillside blossom with joy. 
Psalms65:13 The grazing meadows are covered with flocks, and the fertile valleys are clothed with grain, each one dancing and shouting for joy, creation’s celebration! They’re all singing their songs of praise to you!" 
Psalms66:1 Everyone everywhere, lift up your joyful shout to God!" 
Psalms66:2 Sing your songs tuned to his glory! Tell the world how wonderful he is. 
Psalms66:3 For he’s the awe-inspiring God, great and glorious in power! We’ve never seen anything like him! Mighty in miracles, you cause your enemies to tremble. No wonder they all surrender and bow before you!" 
Psalms66:4 All the earth will bow down to worship; all the earth will sing your glories forever! 
Psalms66:5 Everyone will say, “Come and see the incredible things God has done; it will take your breath away! He multiplies miracles for his people!”" 
Psalms66:6 He made a highway going right through the Red Sea as the Hebrews passed through on dry ground, exploding with joyous excitement over the miracles of God." 
Psalms66:7 In his great and mighty power he rules forever, watching over every movement of every nation. So beware, rebel lands; he knows how to humble you!" 
Psalms66:8 Praise God, all you peoples. Praise him everywhere and let everyone know you love him!" 
Psalms66:9 There’s no doubt about it: God holds our lives safely in his hands. He’s the one who keeps us faithfully following him. 
Psalms66:10 O Lord, we have passed through your fire; like precious metal made pure, you’ve proved us, perfected us, and made us holy." 
Psalms66:11 You’ve captured us, ensnared us in your net. Then, like prisoners, you placed chains around our necks." 
Psalms66:12 You’ve allowed our enemies to prevail against us. We’ve passed through fire and flood, yet in the end you always bring us out better than we were before, saturated with your goodness." 
Psalms66:13 I come before your presence with my sacrifice. I’ll give you all that I’ve promised, everything I have." 
Psalms66:14 When I was overcome in my anguish, I promised to give you my sacrifice. Here it is! All that I said I would offer you is yours." 
Psalms66:15 I’ll throw it all—the best I have to bring—into the fire as the fragrance of my sacrifice ascends unto you. 
Psalms66:16 All you lovers of God who want to please him, come and listen, and I’ll tell you what he did for me." 
Psalms66:17 I cried aloud to him with all my heart, and he answered me! Now my mouth overflows with the highest praise." 
Psalms66:18 Yet if I had closed my eyes to my sin, the Lord God would have closed his ears to my prayer." 
Psalms66:19 But praises rise to God, for he paid attention to my prayer and answered my cry to him!" 
Psalms66:20 I will forever praise this God who didn’t close his heart when I prayed and never said no when I asked him for help. He never once refused to show me his tender love. 
Psalms67:1 God, keep us near your mercy-fountain and bless us! And when you look down on us, may your face beam with joy!" 
Psalms67:2 Send us out all over the world so that everyone everywhere will discover your ways and know who you are and see your power to save. 
Psalms67:3 Let all the nations burst forth with praise; let everyone everywhere love and enjoy you! 
Psalms67:4 Then how glad the nations will be when you are their King. They will sing, they will shout, for you give true justice to the people. Yes! You, Lord, are the shepherd of the nations!" 
Psalms67:5 No wonder the peoples praise you! Let all the people praise you more! 
Psalms67:6 The harvest of the earth is here! God, the very God we worship, keeps us satisfied at his banquet of blessings." 
Psalms67:7 And the blessings keep coming! All the ends of the earth will give him the honor he deserves and be in awe of him! 
Psalms68:1 God! Arise with awesome power, and every one of your enemies will scatter in fear!" 
Psalms68:2 Chase them away—all these God-haters. Blow them away as a puff of smoke. Melt them away like wax in the fire. One good look at you and the wicked vanish. 
Psalms68:3 But let all the righteous be glad! Yes, let them all rejoice in your presence and be carried away with gladness. Let them laugh and be radiant with joy!" 
Psalms68:4 Let them sing their celebration-songs for the coming of the cloud rider whose name is Yah! 
Psalms68:5 To the fatherless he is a father. To the widow he is a champion friend. The lonely he makes part of a family. The prisoners he leads into prosperity until they sing for joy. This is our Holy God in his Holy Place! But for the rebels there is heartache and despair. 
Psalms68:6  
Psalms68:7 O Lord, it was you who marched in front of your people, leading them through the wasteland." 
Psalms68:8 The earth shook beneath your feet; the heavens filled with clouds before the presence of the God of Sinai. The sacred mountain shook at the sight of the face of Israel’s God. 
Psalms68:9 You, O God, sent the reviving rain upon your weary inheritance, showers of blessing to refresh it." 
Psalms68:10 So there your people settled. And in your kindness you provided the poor with abundance. 
Psalms68:11 God Almighty declares the word of the gospel with power, and the warring women of Zion deliver its message:" 
Psalms68:12 “The conquering legions have themselves been conquered. Look at them flee!” Now Zion’s women are left to gather the spoils. 
Psalms68:13 When you sleep between sharpened stakes, I see you sparkling like silver and glistening like gold, covered by the beautiful wings of a dove!" 
Psalms68:14 When the Almighty found a king for himself, it became white as snow in his shade." 
Psalms68:15 O huge, magnificent mountain, you are the mighty kingdom of God! All the other peaks, though impressive and imposing, look with envy on you, Mount Zion! For Zion is the mountain where God has chosen to live forever." 
Psalms68:16  
Psalms68:17 Look! The mighty chariots of God! Ten thousands upon ten thousands, more than anyone could ever number. God is at the front, leading them all from Mount Sinai into his sanctuary with the radiance of holiness upon him." 
Psalms68:18 He ascends into the heavenly heights, taking his many captured ones with him, leading them in triumphal procession. And gifts were given to men, even the once rebellious, so that they may dwell with Yah." 
Psalms68:19 What a glorious God! He gives us salvation over and over, then daily he carries our burdens!" 
Psalms68:20 Our God is a mighty God who saves us over and over! For the Lord, Yahweh, rescues us from the ways of death many times." 
Psalms68:21 But he will crush every enemy, shattering their strength. He will make heads roll for they refuse to repent of their stubborn, sinful ways." 
Psalms68:22 I hear the Lord God saying to all the enemies of his people, “You’d better come out of your hiding places, all of you who are doing your best to stay far away from me. Don’t you know there’s no place to hide?" 
Psalms68:23 For my people will be the conquerors; they will soon have you under their feet. They will crush you until there is nothing left!” 
Psalms68:24 O God, my King, your triumphal processions keep moving onward in holiness; you’re moving onward toward the Holy Place!" 
Psalms68:25 Leaders in front, then musicians, with young maidens in between, striking their tambourines." 
Psalms68:26 And they sing, “Let all God’s princely people rejoice! Let all the congregations bring their blessing to God, saying, ‘The Lord of the fountain! The Lord of the fountain of life! The Lord of the fountain of Israel!’ ”" 
Psalms68:27 Astonishingly, it’s the favored youth leading the way: princes of praise in their royal robes and exalted princes are among them, along with princes who have wrestled with God." 
Psalms68:28 Display your strength, God, and we’ll be strong! For your miracles have made us who we are. Lord, do it again and parade from your temple your mighty power. By your command even kings will bring gifts to you." 
Psalms68:29  
Psalms68:30 God, rebuke the beast-life that hides within us! Rebuke those who claim to be “strong ones,” who lurk within the congregation and abuse the people out of their love for money. God scatters the people who are spoiling for a fight." 
Psalms68:31 Africa will send her noble envoys to you, O God. They will come running, stretching out their hands in love to you." 
Psalms68:32 Let all the nations of the earth sing songs of praise to Almighty God! Go ahead, all you nations—sing your praise to the Lord!" 
Psalms68:33 Make music for the one who strides the ancient skies. Listen to his thunderous voice of might split open the heavens. 
Psalms68:34 Give it up for God, for he alone has all the strength and power! Proclaim his majesty! For his glory shines down on Israel. His mighty strength soars in the clouds of glory." 
Psalms68:35 God, we are consumed with awe, trembling before you as your glory streams from your Holy Place. The God of power shares his mighty strength with Israel and with all his people. God, we give our highest praise to you!" 
Psalms69:1 God, my God, come and save me! These floods of trouble have risen higher and higher. The water is up to my neck! I’m sinking into the mud with no place to stand, and I’m about to drown in this storm." 
Psalms69:2  
Psalms69:3 I’m weary, exhausted with weeping. My throat is dry, my voice is gone, my eyes are swollen with sorrow, and I’m waiting for you, God, to come through for me." 
Psalms69:4 I can’t even count all those who hate me for no reason. Many influential men want me silenced, yet I’ve done nothing against them. Must I restore what I never took away?" 
Psalms69:5 God, my life is an open book to you. You know every sin I’ve ever done. For nothing within me is hidden from your sight!" 
Psalms69:6 Lord Yahweh of Angel Armies, keep me from ever being a stumbling block to others, to those who love you. Lord God of Israel, don’t let what happens to me be the source of confusion to those who are passionate for you." 
Psalms69:7 Because of my love for you, Lord, I have been mocked, cursed, and disgraced." 
Psalms69:8 Even my own brothers, those of my family, act as though they don’t want anything to do with me." 
Psalms69:9 My love for you has my heart on fire! My passion for your house consumes me! Nothing will turn me away, even though I endure all the insults of those who insult you." 
Psalms69:10 When they see me seeking for more of you with weeping and fasting, they all just scoff and scorn at my passion." 
Psalms69:11 When I humble myself with sorrow over my sin, it gives them a reason to mock me even more." 
Psalms69:12 The leaders, the influential ones—how they scorn my passion for you! I’ve become the talk of the town, the theme of drunkards’ songs." 
Psalms69:13 But I keep calling out to you, Yahweh! I know you will bend down to listen to me, for now is the season of favor. Because of your faithful love for me, your answer to my prayer will be my sure salvation." 
Psalms69:14 Pull me out of this mess! Don’t let me sink! Rescue me from those who hate me and from all this trouble I’m in! 
Psalms69:15 Don’t let this flood drown me. Save me from these deep waters or I’ll go down to the pit of destruction. 
Psalms69:16 Oh, Lord God, answer my prayers! I need to see your tender kindness, your grace, your compassion, and your constant love. Just let me see your face, and turn your heart toward me. Come running quickly to your servant. In this deep distress, come and answer my prayer." 
Psalms69:17  
Psalms69:18 Come closer as a friend and redeem me. Set me free so my enemies cannot say that you are powerless. 
Psalms69:19 See how they dishonor me in shame and disgrace? You know, Lord, what I’m going through, and you see it all." 
Psalms69:20 I’m heartsick and heartbroken by it all. Their contempt has crushed my soul. I looked for sympathy and compassion but found only empty stares. 
Psalms69:21 I was hungry and they gave me bitter food. I was thirsty and they offered me vinegar. 
Psalms69:22 Let their “feasts” turn to ashes. Let their “peace and security” become their downfall. 
Psalms69:23 Make them blind as bats, groping in the dark. Let them be feeble, trembling continually." 
Psalms69:24 Pour out your fury on them all! Consume them with the fire of your anger! Burn down the walled palace where they live! Leave them homeless and desolate! 
Psalms69:25  
Psalms69:26 For they come against the one you yourself have struck, and they scorn the pain of those you’ve pierced." 
Psalms69:27 Pile on them the guilt of their sins. Don’t let them ever go free. 
Psalms69:28 Leave them out of your list of the living! Blot them out of your Book of Life! Never name them as your own! 
Psalms69:29 I am burdened and broken by this pain. When your miracle rescue comes to me, it will lift me to the highest place." 
Psalms69:30 Then my song will be a burst of praise to you. My glory-shouts will make your fame even more glorious to all who hear my praises! 
Psalms69:31 For I know, Yahweh, that my praises mean more to you than all my gifts and sacrifices." 
Psalms69:32 All who seek you will see God do this for them, and they’ll overflow with gladness. Let this revive your hearts, all you lovers of God!" 
Psalms69:33 For Yahweh does listen to the poor and needy and will not abandon his prisoners of love. 
Psalms69:34 Let all the universe praise him! The high heavens and everyone on earth, praise him! Let the oceans deep, with everything in them, keep it up!" 
Psalms69:35 God will come to save his Zion-people. God will build up his cities of Judah, for there his people will live in peace." 
Psalms69:36 All their children will inherit the land, and the lovers of his name will live there safe and secure." 
Psalms70:1 Please, Lord! Come quickly and rescue me! God, show me your favor and restore me." 
Psalms70:2 Let all who seek my life be humiliated and confused. God, send them sprawling, all who wish me evil; they just want me dead." 
Psalms70:3 Scoff at every scoffer and cause them all to be utter failures! Let them be ashamed and horrified over their complete defeat. 
Psalms70:4 But let all who passionately seek you erupt with excitement and joy over what you’ve done! Let all your devoted lovers, who continually rejoice in the Savior, say aloud, “How great and glorious is our God!”" 
Psalms70:5 Lord, in my place of weakness and need, won’t you turn your heart toward me and hurry to help me? For you are my Savior, and I’m always in your thoughts. So don’t delay to deliver me now, for you are my God." 
Psalms71:1 Lord, you are my secure shelter. Don’t ever let me down!" 
Psalms71:2 Let your justice be my breakthrough. Bend low to my whispered cry and save me from all my enemies! 
Psalms71:3 You’re the only place of protection for me. I keep coming back to hide myself in you, for you are like a mountain-cliff fortress where I’m kept safe." 
Psalms71:4 Let me escape from these cruel and wicked men, and save me from the hands of the evil one." 
Psalms71:5 For you are my only hope, Lord! I’ve hung on to you, trusting in you all my life." 
Psalms71:6 It was you who supported me from the day I was born, loving me, helping me through my life’s journey. You’ve made me into a miracle; no wonder I trust you and praise you forever! Many marvel at my success, but I know it is all because of you, my mighty protector!" 
Psalms71:7  
Psalms71:8 I’m overflowing with your praise for all you’ve done, and your splendor thrills me all day long." 
Psalms71:9 Now that I’m old, don’t set me aside. Don’t let go of me when my strength is spent." 
Psalms71:10 For all my enemies whisper behind my back. They’re waiting for me to fall so they can finish me off. They’re convinced you’ve left me and that you’ll never come to my rescue. They’re saying, “Let’s get him now! He has no savior!”" 
Psalms71:11  
Psalms71:12 O God, stay close to me! Don’t just watch from a distance! Hurry to help me, my God!" 
Psalms71:13 Cover these accusers of mine with shame and failure! Destroy them all, for they only want to kill me!" 
Psalms71:14 No matter what, I’ll trust in you to help me. Nothing will stop me from praising you to magnify your glory!" 
Psalms71:15 I couldn’t begin to count the times you’ve been there for me. With the skill of a poet I’ll never run out of things to say about how you faithfully kept me from danger. 
Psalms71:16 I will come forth in your mighty strength, O my Lord God. I’ll tell everyone that you alone are the perfect one." 
Psalms71:17 From my childhood you’ve been my teacher, and I’m still telling everyone of your miracle-wonders!" 
Psalms71:18 God, now that I’m old and gray, don’t walk away. Give me grace to demonstrate to the next generation all your mighty miracles and your excitement, to show them your magnificent power!" 
Psalms71:19 For your glorious righteousness reaches up to the high heavens. No one could ever be compared to you! Who is your equal, O God of marvels and wonders?" 
Psalms71:20 Even though you’ve let us sink down with trials and troubles, I know you will revive us again, lifting us up from the dust of death." 
Psalms71:21 Give us even more greatness than before. Turn and comfort us once again. 
Psalms71:22 My loving God, the harp in my heart will praise you. Your faithful heart toward us will be the theme of my song. Melodies and music will rise to you, the Holy One of Israel." 
Psalms71:23 I will shout and sing your praises for all you are to me— Savior, lover of my soul!" 
Psalms71:24 I’ll never stop telling others how perfect you are, while all those who seek my harm slink away ashamed and defeated!" 
Psalms72:1 O God, make the king a godly judge like you and give the king’s son the gift of justice too." 
Psalms72:2 Help him to give true justice to your people, honorably and equally to all." 
Psalms72:3 Then the mountains of influence will be fruitful, and from your righteousness prosperity and peace will flow to all the people." 
Psalms72:4 May the poor and humble have an advocate with the king. May he consider the children of the poor and crush the cruel oppressor. 
Psalms72:5 The sun and moon will stop shining before your devoted lovers will stop worshiping; for ages upon ages the people will love and adore you! 
Psalms72:6 Your favor will fall like rain upon our surrendered lives, like showers reviving the earth." 
Psalms72:7 In the days of his reign the righteous will spring forth with the abundance of peace and prosperity forevermore. 
Psalms72:8 May he subdue and take dominion from sea to sea; may he rule from the river to the rim. 
Psalms72:9 Desert nomads are bowing at his feet; every enemy is falling facedown, biting the dust!" 
Psalms72:10 Distant kings will surrender and come with their gifts from every continent and coastland; they will offer their tribute to you. 
Psalms72:11 O King of kings, they will all bow before you. O King of kings, every nation will one day serve you." 
Psalms72:12 He will care for the needy and neglected when they cry to him for help. The humble and helpless will know his kindness, for with a father’s compassion he will save their souls." 
Psalms72:13  
Psalms72:14 They will be rescued from tyranny and torture, for their lifeblood is precious in his eyes." 
Psalms72:15 Long live this King! May the wealth of the world be laid before him. May there be ceaseless praise and prayer to him. May all the blessing be brought to him. 
Psalms72:16 Bless us with a bountiful harvest, with golden grain swaying on the mountain fields! May the cities be full of praising people, fruitful and filled—" 
Psalms72:17 so that his name may be honored forever! May the fame of his name spring forth! May it shine on, like the sunshine! In him all will be blessed to bless others, and may all the people bless the One who blessed them." 
Psalms72:18 Praise Yahweh forever, the God of Israel! He is the one and only God of wonders, surpassing every expectation." 
Psalms72:19 The blazing glory of his name will be praised forever! May all the earth overflow with his glory! Faithful is our King! Amen! 
Psalms72:20 This concludes the poetry sung by David, Jesse’s son." 
Psalms73:1 No one can deny it—God is really good to Israel and to all those with pure hearts. But I nearly missed seeing it for myself. 
Psalms73:2 Here’s my story: I narrowly missed losing it all. 
Psalms73:3 I was stumbling over what I saw the wicked doing. For when I saw the boasters with such wealth and prosperity, I became jealous over their smug security." 
Psalms73:4 Indulging in whatever they wanted, going where they wanted, doing what they wanted, and with no care in the world, no pain, no problems—they seemed to have it made. They lived as though life would never end." 
Psalms73:5  
Psalms73:6 They didn’t even try to hide their pride and opulence. Cruelty and violence are parts of their lifestyle. 
Psalms73:7 Pampered and pompous, vice oozes from their souls; they overflow with vanity." 
Psalms73:8 They’re such snobs—looking down their noses. They even scoff at God! They are nothing but bullies threatening God’s people. 
Psalms73:9 They are loudmouths with no fear of God, pretending to know it all— windbags full of hot air, impressing only themselves." 
Psalms73:10 Yet the people keep coming back to listen to more of their nonsense. 
Psalms73:11 They tell their cohorts, “God will never know. See, he has no clue of what we’re doing.”" 
Psalms73:12 These are the wicked ones I’m talking about! They never have to lift a finger, living a life of ease while their riches multiply." 
Psalms73:13 Have I been foolish to play by the rules and keep my life pure? 
Psalms73:14 Here I am suffering under your discipline day after day. I feel like I’m being punished all day long. 
Psalms73:15 If I had given in to my pain and spoken of what I was really feeling, it would have sounded like unfaithfulness to the next generation." 
Psalms73:16 When I tried to understand it all, I just couldn’t. It was too puzzling—too much of a riddle to me." 
Psalms73:17 But then one day I was brought into the sanctuaries of God, and in the light of glory, my distorted perspective vanished. Then I understood that the destiny of the wicked was near!" 
Psalms73:18 They’re the ones who are on the slippery path, and God will suddenly let them slide off into destruction to be consumed with terrors forever!" 
Psalms73:19 It will be an instant end to all their life of ease; a blink of the eye and they’re swept away by sudden calamity! They’re all nothing more than momentary monarchs— 
Psalms73:20 soon to disappear like a dream when one awakes. When the rooster crows, Lord God, you’ll despise their life of fantasies." 
Psalms73:21 When I saw all of this, what turmoil filled my heart, piercing my opinions with your truth." 
Psalms73:22 I was so stupid. I was senseless and ignorant, acting like a brute beast before you, Lord." 
Psalms73:23 Yet, in spite of all this, I still belong to you; you hold me by my right hand." 
Psalms73:24 You lead me with your secret wisdom. And following you brings me into your brightness and glory! 
Psalms73:25 Whom have I in heaven but you? You’re all I want! No one on earth means as much to me as you. 
Psalms73:26 Lord, so many times I fail; I fall into disgrace. But when I trust in you, I have a strong and glorious presence protecting and anointing me. Forever you’re all I need!" 
Psalms73:27 Those who abandon the worship of God will perish. The false and unfaithful will be silenced, never heard from again." 
Psalms73:28 But I’ll keep coming closer and closer to you, Lord Yahweh, for your name is good to me. I’ll keep telling the world of your awesome works, my faithful and glorious God!" 
Psalms74:1 Are you really going to leave us, God? Would you turn your back on us, rejecting your people? We are yours, your very own. Will your anger smolder against us forever?" 
Psalms74:2 Don’t forget that we are your beloved ones. Wrap us back into your heart again, for you chose us. You brought us out of our slavery and bondage and made us your favored ones, your Zion-people, your home on earth." 
Psalms74:3 Turn your steps toward this devastation. Come running to bring your restoring grace to these ruins, to what the enemy has done to devastate your Holy Place." 
Psalms74:4 They have come into the very midst of your dwelling place, roaring like beasts, setting up their banners to flaunt their conquest." 
Psalms74:5 Now everything is in shambles! They’ve totally destroyed it. Like a forest chopped down to the ground, there’s nothing left." 
Psalms74:6 All of the beauty of the craftsmanship of the inner place has been ruined, smashed, broken, and shattered." 
Psalms74:7 They’ve burned it all to the ground. They’ve violated your sanctuary, the very dwelling place of your glory and your name." 
Psalms74:8 They boasted, “Let’s completely crush them! Let’s wipe out every trace of this God. Let’s burn up every sacred place where they worship this God.”" 
Psalms74:9 We don’t see any miraculous signs anymore. There’s no longer a prophet among us who can tell us how long this devastation will continue. 
Psalms74:10 God, how much longer will you let this go on and allow these barbarians to blaspheme your name? Will you stand back and watch them get away with this forever?" 
Psalms74:11 Why don’t you do something? You have the power to break in, so why would you hide your great power from us? Don’t hold back! Unleash your might and give them a final blow." 
Psalms74:12 You have always been, and always will be, my King. You are the mighty conqueror, working wonders all over the world." 
Psalms74:13 It was you who split the sea in two by your glorious strength. You smashed the power of Tannin, the sea monster." 
Psalms74:14 You crushed the might of Leviathan, the great dragon, then you took the crumbs and fed them to the sharks." 
Psalms74:15 With your glory you opened up springs and fountains, then you spoke, and the ever-flowing springs of Jordan dried up so we could cross over." 
Psalms74:16 You own the day and the night. Sunlight and starlight call you Creator. 
Psalms74:17 The four corners of the earth were formed by your hands, and every changing season owes its beauty to you." 
Psalms74:18 O  Yahweh, don’t ever forget how these arrogant enemies, like fools, have mocked your name." 
Psalms74:19 Lord, aren’t we your beloved dove that praises you? Protect us from these wild beasts who want to harm us. Don’t leave us as lambs among wolves! You can’t abandon us after all we’ve been through!" 
Psalms74:20 Remember your promises to us, for darkness covers the land, giving the violent ones a hiding place." 
Psalms74:21 Don’t let these insults continue. Can’t you see that we are your downtrodden and oppressed people? Make the poor and needy into a choir of praise to you! 
Psalms74:22 Don’t ignore these ignorant words, this continual mocking. Rise up, God; it’s time to defend yourself from all this." 
Psalms74:23 Never forget what your adversaries are saying. For their rage and uproar rise continually against you. It’s time to stand up to them! 
Psalms75:1 God, our hearts spill over with praise to you! We overflow with thanks, for your name is the “Near One.” All we want to talk about is your wonderful works! And we hear your reply:" 
Psalms75:2 “When the time is ripe I will arise, and I will judge the world with perfect righteousness." 
Psalms75:3 Though I have set the earth firmly on its pillars, I will shake it until it totters, and everyone’s hearts will tremble.”" 
Psalms75:4 God warns the proud, “Stop your arrogant boasting!” And he warns the wicked, “Don’t think for a moment you can resist me!" 
Psalms75:5 Why would you speak with such stubborn pride? Don’t you dare raise your fist against me!” 
Psalms75:6 This I know: the favor that brings promotion and power doesn’t come from anywhere on earth, for no one exalts a person but God, the true judge of all. He alone determines where favor rests. He anoints one for greatness and brings another down to his knees." 
Psalms75:7  
Psalms75:8 A foaming cup filled with judgment mixed with fury is in the hands of the Lord Yahweh, full to the brim and ready to run over. He filled it up for the wicked, and they will drink it down to the very last drop!" 
Psalms75:9 But I will proclaim the victory of the God of Jacob. My melodies of praise will make him known. 
Psalms75:10 My praises will break the powers of wickedness, while the righteous will be promoted and become powerful!" 
Psalms76:1 God is well known in the land of Judah. He is famous throughout Israel," 
Psalms76:2 making his home in Jerusalem, living here on Mount Zion." 
Psalms76:3 That’s where he smashes every weapon of war that comes against him. That’s where he uses the broken arrows as kindling for his mighty bonfire. 
Psalms76:4 God, you are so resplendent and radiant! Your majesty shines from your everlasting mountain. Nothing could be compared to you in glory!" 
Psalms76:5 Even the mightiest of men have been paralyzed by your presence. They were so stunned and lifeless, not even the strongest one could lift a hand." 
Psalms76:6 When Jacob’s God roared his rebuke, soldiers and their steeds all fell to the ground, stunned and lying still." 
Psalms76:7 No wonder you are greatly feared! You are the awe-inspiring God! For who could ever stand before your face when your fierce anger burns and live to tell about it. 
Psalms76:8 As the earth itself holds its breath in awe before you, judgment is decreed from heaven." 
Psalms76:9 You arise to punish evil and defend the gentle upon the earth. 
Psalms76:10 You have power to transform man’s futile anger into praise. The fury of your enemies only causes your fame to increase. 
Psalms76:11 So you’d better keep every promise you’ve ever made to the Awesome One, Yahweh! Let all people bring their extravagant gifts to him alone." 
Psalms76:12 He is famous for breaking the spirit of the powers that be. And the kings of the earth will know him as the Fearsome One! 
Psalms77:1 I poured out my complaint to you, God. I lifted up my voice, shouting out for your help." 
Psalms77:2 When I was in deep distress, in my day of trouble, I reached out for you with hands stretched out to heaven. Over and over I kept looking for you, God, but your comforting grace was nowhere to be found." 
Psalms77:3 As I thought of you I moaned, “God, where are you?” I’m overwhelmed with despair as I wait for your help to arrive." 
Psalms77:4 I can’t get a wink of sleep until you come and comfort me. Now I’m too burdened to even pray! 
Psalms77:5 My mind wandered, thinking of days gone by— the years long since passed." 
Psalms77:6 Then I remembered the worship songs I used to sing in the night seasons, and my heart began to fill again with thoughts of you. So my spirit went out once more in search of you." 
Psalms77:7 Would you really walk off and leave me forever, my Lord God? Won’t you show me your kind favor, delighting in me again?" 
Psalms77:8 Has your well of sweet mercy dried up? Will your promises never come true? 
Psalms77:9 Have you somehow forgotten to show me love? Are you so angry that you’ve closed your heart of compassion toward me? 
Psalms77:10 Lord, what wounds me most is that it’s somehow my fault that you’ve changed your heart toward me and I no longer see the years of the Mighty One or your right hand of power." 
Psalms77:11 Yet I could never forget all your miracles, my God, as I remember all your wonders of old." 
Psalms77:12 I ponder all you’ve done, Lord, musing on all your miracles." 
Psalms77:13 It’s here in your presence, in your sanctuary, where I learn more of your ways, for holiness is revealed in everything you do. Lord, you’re the one and only, the great and glorious God!" 
Psalms77:14 Your display of wonders, miracles, and power makes the nations acknowledge you." 
Psalms77:15 By your glory-bursts you’ve rescued us over and over. Just ask the sons of Jacob or the sons of Joseph, and they will tell you! And all of us, your beloved ones, know that it’s true!" 
Psalms77:16 When the many waters of the Red Sea took one look at you, they were afraid and ran away to hide— trembling to its depths!" 
Psalms77:17 Storm clouds filled with water high in the skies; cloudbursts and thunderclaps announced your approach. Lightning-flashes lit up the landscape. 
Psalms77:18 Rolling whirlwinds exploded with sonic booms of thunder, rumbling as the skies shouted out your story with light and sound and wind. Everything on earth shook and trembled as you drew near." 
Psalms77:19 Your steps formed a highway through the seas with footprints on a pathway no one even knew was there. 
Psalms77:20 You led your people forward by your loving hand, blessed by the leadership of Moses and Aaron." 
Psalms78:1 Beloved ones, listen to this instruction. Open your heart to the revelation of this mystery that I share with you." 
Psalms78:2 A parable and a proverb are hidden in what I say— an intriguing riddle from the past. 
Psalms78:3 We’ve heard true stories from our fathers about our rich heritage. We will continue to tell our children and not hide from the rising generation the great marvels of our God— his miracles and power that have brought us all this far. 
Psalms78:4  
Psalms78:5 The story of Israel is a lesson in God’s ways. He established decrees for Jacob and established the law in Israel, and he commanded our forefathers to teach them to their children." 
Psalms78:6 For perpetuity God’s ways will be passed down from one generation to the next, even to those not yet born." 
Psalms78:7 In this way, every generation will set its hope in God and not forget his wonderful works but keep his commandments." 
Psalms78:8 By following his ways they will break the past bondage of their fickle fathers, who were a stubborn, rebellious generation and whose spirits strayed from the eternal God. They refused to love him with all their hearts." 
Psalms78:9 Take, for example, the sons of Ephraim. Though they were all equipped warriors, each with weapons, when the battle began they retreated and ran away in fear." 
Psalms78:10 They didn’t really believe the promises of God; they refused to trust him and move forward in faith. 
Psalms78:11 They forgot his wonderful works and the miracles of the past," 
Psalms78:12 even their exodus from Egypt, the epic miracle of his might. They forgot the glories of his power at the place of passing over." 
Psalms78:13 God split the sea wide open, and the waters stood at attention on either side as the people passed on through!" 
Psalms78:14 By day the moving glory-cloud led them forward. And all through the night the fire-cloud stood as a sentry of light. 
Psalms78:15 In the days of desert dryness, he split open the mighty rock, and the waters flowed like a river before their very eyes. He gave them all they wanted to drink from his living springs." 
Psalms78:16  
Psalms78:17 Yet they kept their rebellion alive against God Most High, and their sins against God continued to be counted." 
Psalms78:18 In their hearts they tested God just to get what they wanted, asking for the food their hearts craved." 
Psalms78:19 Like spoiled children they grumbled against God, demanding he prove his love by saying, “Can’t God provide for us in this barren wilderness? Will he give us food, or will he only give us water? Where’s our meal?”" 
Psalms78:20  
Psalms78:21 Then God heard all their complaining and was furious! His anger flared up against his people. 
Psalms78:22 For they turned away from faith and walked away in fear; they failed to trust in his power to save them when he was near. 
Psalms78:23 Still he spoke on their behalf, and the skies opened up; the windows of heaven poured out food, the mercy bread-manna. The grain of grace fell from the clouds." 
Psalms78:24  
Psalms78:25 Humans ate angels’ food—the meal of the mighty ones. His grace gave them more than enough! 
Psalms78:26 The heavenly winds of miracle power blew in their favor, and food rained down upon them; succulent quail quieted their hunger as they ate all they wanted." 
Psalms78:27  
Psalms78:28 Food fell from the skies, thick as clouds; their provision floated down right in front of their eyes!" 
Psalms78:29 He gave them all they desired, and they ate to their fill." 
Psalms78:30 But before they had even finished, even with their food still in their mouths, God’s fiery anger arose against them, killing the finest of their mighty men." 
Psalms78:31  
Psalms78:32 Yet in spite of all this, they kept right on sinning. Even when they saw God’s marvels, they refused to believe God could care for them." 
Psalms78:33 So God cut their lives short with sudden disaster, with nothing to show for their lives but fear and failure." 
Psalms78:34 When he cared for them they ignored him, but when he began to kill them, ending their lives in a moment, they came running back to God, pleading for mercy." 
Psalms78:35 They remembered that God, the Mighty One, was their strong protector, the Hero-God who would come to their rescue." 
Psalms78:36 But their repentance lasted only as long as they were in danger; they lied through their teeth to the true God of the Covenant. So quickly they wandered away from his promises, following God with their words and not their hearts! Their worship was only flattery." 
Psalms78:37  
Psalms78:38 But amazingly, God—so full of compassion—still forgave them. He covered over their sins with his love, refusing to destroy them all. Over and over he held back his anger, restraining wrath to show them mercy." 
Psalms78:39 He knew that they were made from mere dust— frail, fragile, and short-lived, here today and gone tomorrow." 
Psalms78:40 How many times they rebelled in their desert days! How they grieved him with their grumblings. 
Psalms78:41 Again and again they limited God, preventing him from blessing them. Continually they turned back from him and provoked the Holy One of Israel!" 
Psalms78:42 They forgot his great love, how he took them by his hand, and with redemption’s kiss he delivered them from their enemies." 
Psalms78:43 They disregarded all the epic signs and marvels they saw when they escaped from Egypt’s bondage. They forgot the judgment of the plagues that set them free. 
Psalms78:44 God turned their rivers into blood, leaving the people thirsty." 
Psalms78:45 He sent them vast swarms of filthy flies that sucked their blood. He sent hordes of frogs, ruining their lives." 
Psalms78:46 Grasshoppers consumed all their crops. 
Psalms78:47 Every garden and every orchard was flattened with blasts of hailstones, their fruit trees ruined by a killing frost." 
Psalms78:48 Even their cattle fell prey, pounded by the falling hail; their livestock were struck with bolts of lightning." 
Psalms78:49 Finally, he unleashed upon them the fierceness of his anger. Such fury! He sent them sorrow and devastating trouble by his mighty band of destroying angels; messengers of death were dispatched against them." 
Psalms78:50 He lifted his mercy and let loose his fearful anger and did not spare their lives. He released the judgment-plagues to rage through their land. God struck down in death all the firstborn sons of Egypt— the pride and joy of each family. 
Psalms78:51  
Psalms78:52 Then, like a shepherd leading his sheep, God led his people out of tyranny, guiding them through the wilderness like a flock." 
Psalms78:53 Safely and carefully God led them out, with nothing to fear. But their enemies he led into the sea. He took care of them there once and for all!" 
Psalms78:54 Eventually God brought his people to the Holy Land, to a land of hills that he had prepared for them." 
Psalms78:55 He drove out and scattered all the peoples occupying the land, staking out an inheritance, a portion for each of Israel’s tribes." 
Psalms78:56 Yet for all of this, they still rebelled and refused to follow his ways, provoking to anger the God Most High." 
Psalms78:57 Like traitors turning back, they forsook him. They were even worse than their fathers! They became treacherous deceivers, crooked and corrupt, and worshiped false gods in the high places, bringing low the name of God with every idol they erected. No wonder he was filled with jealousy and furious with anger!" 
Psalms78:58  
Psalms78:59 Enraged with anger, God turned his wrath on them, and he rejected his people with disgust." 
Psalms78:60 God walked away from them and left his dwelling place at Shiloh, abandoning the place where he had lived among them," 
Psalms78:61 allowing his emblem of strength, his glory-ark, to be captured. Enemies stole the very source of Israel’s power." 
Psalms78:62 God vented his rage, allowing his people to be butchered when they went out to battle, for his anger was intense against his very own." 
Psalms78:63 Their young men fell on the battlefield and never came back. Their daughters never heard their wedding songs, since there was no one left to marry!" 
Psalms78:64 Their priests were slaughtered and their widows were killed before they had time to weep. 
Psalms78:65 Then all at once the Almighty awakened as though he had been asleep. Like a mighty man he arose, roaring into action!" 
Psalms78:66 He blasted into battle, driving back every foe, defeating them and disgracing them for time and eternity." 
Psalms78:67 He rejected Joseph’s family, the tribe of Ephraim." 
Psalms78:68 He chose instead the tribe of Judah and Mount Zion, which he loves." 
Psalms78:69 There he built his towering temple, strong and enduring as the earth itself." 
Psalms78:70 God also chose his beloved one, David. He promoted him from caring for sheep and made him his prophetic servant." 
Psalms78:71 God prepared David and took this gentle shepherd-king and presented him before the people as the one who would love and care for them with integrity, a pure heart, and the anointing to lead Israel, his holy inheritance." 
Psalms78:72  
Psalms79:1 God, won’t you do something? Barbarians have invaded your inheritance. Your temple of holiness has been violated, and Jerusalem has been left in ruins." 
Psalms79:2 The corpses of your loving people are lying in the open— food for the beasts and the birds. 
Psalms79:3 The shed blood of your servants has soaked the city, with no one left to bury the dead." 
Psalms79:4 Now the nearby nations heap their scorn upon us, scoffing, mocking us incessantly." 
Psalms79:5 How much longer, O  Yahweh, must we endure this? Does your anger have no end? Will your jealousy burn like a raging fire?" 
Psalms79:6 If you’re going to pour out your anger, pour it out on all these nations around us, not on us! They’re the ones who do not love you like we do!" 
Psalms79:7 See how they’ve attacked us, consuming the land, leaving it desolate." 
Psalms79:8 Please, God, don’t hold the sins of our fathers against us. Don’t make us pay for their sins. Hurry to our side, and let your tenderhearted mercy meet us in our need, for we are devastated beyond belief." 
Psalms79:9 Our hero, come and rescue us! O God of the breakthrough, for the glory of your name, come and help us! Forgive and restore us; heal us and cover us in your love." 
Psalms79:10 Why should all the nations sneer at us, saying, “Where is this God of yours?” Now is the time, Lord. Show your people and all the world that you will avenge this slaughter and bloodshed once and for all!" 
Psalms79:11 Listen, Lord! Hear the sighing of all the prisoners of war, all those doomed to die. Demonstrate your glory-power, and come and rescue your condemned children!" 
Psalms79:12 Lord God, take what these mocking masses have done to us and pay it all back to them seven times over." 
Psalms79:13 Then we, your devoted lovers, will forever thank you, praising your name from generation to generation!" 
Psalms80:1 God-Enthroned, be revealed in splendor as you ride upon the cherubim! How perfectly you lead us, a people set free. Loving shepherd of Israel—listen to our hearts’ cry! Shine forth from your throne of dazzling light." 
Psalms80:2 In the sight of Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh, stir up your mighty power in full display before our eyes. Break through and reveal yourself by coming to our rescue." 
Psalms80:3 Revive us, O God! Let your beaming face shine upon us with the sunrise rays of glory; then nothing will be able to stop us." 
Psalms80:4 O God, the mighty Commander of Angel Armies, how much longer will you smolder in anger? How much longer will you be disgusted with your people even when they pray?" 
Psalms80:5 You have fed us with sorrow and grief and made us drink our tears by the bowlful. 
Psalms80:6 You’ve made us a thorn in the side of all the neighboring lands, and now they just laugh at us with their mocking scorn." 
Psalms80:7 Come back, come back, O God, and restore us! You are the Commander of Angel Armies. Let your beaming face shine upon us with the sunrise rays of glory, and then nothing will be able to stop us!" 
Psalms80:8 Remember how you transplanted us here like a tender vine from Egypt. You cleared the land for your vineyard, evicting the nations from your land and planting us here. The roots of your vineyard went deep into the soil and filled the land with fruit." 
Psalms80:9  
Psalms80:10 Because of your favor on your vineyard, blessing extended to every mountain of influence. Through this flourishing vineyard mighty ones were raised up. The nations were blessed by your fruitful vineyard of Israel, all the way from the Mediterranean Sea to the Euphrates." 
Psalms80:11  
Psalms80:12 So Lord, why have you broken down your fence of favor around us? Trespassers can steal the fruit from off our vines, and now every wild beast comes breaking through our wall to ravage us. You’ve left us without protection!" 
Psalms80:13  
Psalms80:14 Come back, come back, O God to restore us! You are the Commander of Angel Armies. Look down from heaven and see our crisis. Come down and care for your lovely vineyard once again." 
Psalms80:15 Nurture our root and our fruit with your loving care. Raise up the Branch-Man, the Son whom you’ve made strong." 
Psalms80:16 Enemies chopped down our vine and set it on fire; now show them your anger and let them perish by your frown. 
Psalms80:17 Strengthen this Branch-Man, the Son of your love, the Son of Man who dwells at your right hand." 
Psalms80:18 Then we will never turn back from you. Revive us again, that we may trust in you." 
Psalms80:19 O God, the mighty Commander of Angel Armies, come back and rescue us! Let your beaming face shine upon us with the sunrise rays of glory. Then nothing will ever stop us again!" 
Psalms81:1 Lord, just singing about you makes me strong! So I’ll keep shouting for joy to Jacob’s God, my champion." 
Psalms81:2 Let the celebration begin! I will sing with drum accompaniment and with the sweet sound of the harp and guitar strumming. 
Psalms81:3 Go ahead! Blow the jubilee trumpet to begin the feast! Blow it before every joyous celebration and festival. 
Psalms81:4 For God has given us these seasons of joy, days that the God of Jacob decreed for us to celebrate and rejoice." 
Psalms81:5 He has given these feasts to remind us of his triumph over Egypt, when he went out to wage war against them. I heard the message in an unknown tongue as he said to me," 
Psalms81:6 “I have removed your backbreaking burdens and have freed your hands from the hard labor and toil. 
Psalms81:7 You called out to me in your time of trouble, and I rescued you. I came down from the realm of the secret place of thunder, where mysteries hide. I came down to save you. I tested your hearts at the place where there was no water to drink, the place of your bitter argument with me.”" 
Psalms81:8 “Listen to me, my dear people. For I’m warning you, and you’d better listen well! For I hold something against you." 
Psalms81:9 Don’t ever be guilty of worshiping any other god but me. 
Psalms81:10 I am your only God, the living God. Wasn’t I the one who broke the strongholds over you and raised you up out of bondage? Open your mouth with a mighty decree; I will fulfill it now, you’ll see! The words that you speak, so shall it be!" 
Psalms81:11 But my people still wouldn’t listen; my princely people would not yield to me. 
Psalms81:12 So I lifted my grace from off of their lives, and I surrendered them to the stubbornness of their hearts. For they were living according to their own selfish fantasies." 
Psalms81:13 O that my people would once and for all listen to me and walk faithfully in my footsteps, following my ways." 
Psalms81:14 Then and only then will I conquer your every foe and tell every one of them, ‘You must go!’" 
Psalms81:15 Those who hate my ways will cringe before me and their punishment will be eternal. 
Psalms81:16 But I will feed you with my spiritual bread. You will feast and be satisfied with me, feeding on my revelation-truth like honey dripping from the cliffs of the high place.”" 
Psalms82:1 All rise! For God now comes to judge as he convenes heaven’s courtroom. He judges every judge and rules in the midst of the gods, saying," 
Psalms82:2 “How long will you judges refuse to listen to the voice of true justice and continue to corrupt what is right by judging in favor of the wrong?” 
Psalms82:3 “Defend the defenseless, the fatherless and the forgotten, the disenfranchised and the destitute." 
Psalms82:4 Your duty is to deliver the poor and the powerless; liberate them from the grasp of the wicked. 
Psalms82:5 But you continue in your darkness and ignorance while the foundations of society are shaken to the core! 
Psalms82:6 Didn’t I commission you as judges, saying, ‘You are all like gods, since you judge on my behalf. You are all like sons of the Most High, my representatives.’" 
Psalms82:7 Nevertheless, in death you are nothing but mere men! You will be laid in the ground like any prince and you will die.”" 
Psalms82:8 All rise! For God now takes his place as judge of all the earth. Don’t you know that everything and everyone belongs to him? The nations will be sifted in his hands! 
Psalms83:1 God, you have to do something! Don’t be silent and just sit idly by." 
Psalms83:2 Can’t you see what they’re doing? All your enemies are stirred up in an uproar! They despise you, Lord. In their defiant arrogance they rise up to host their secret council against your people. They conspire together to come and harm your cherished ones—your hidden ones." 
Psalms83:3  
Psalms83:4 Our enemies keep saying, “Now is the time to wipe Israel off the map. We’ll destroy even the memory of her existence!”" 
Psalms83:5 They’ve made their pact, consulting and conspiring, aligning together in their covenant against God." 
Psalms83:6 All the sons of Ishmael, the desert sheiks and the nomadic tribes, Amalekites, Canaanites, Moabites, and all the nations that surround us, Philistines, Phoenicians, Gadarenes, and Samaritans; allied together they’re ready to attack!" 
Psalms83:7  
Psalms83:8  
Psalms83:9 Do to them all what you did to the Midianites who were defeated by Gideon. Or what you did to Sisera and Jabin when Deborah and Barak defeated them by the Kishon River. 
Psalms83:10 Do to your enemies what you did at Endor, whose rotting corpses fertilized the land." 
Psalms83:11 Repeat history, God! Make all their “noble ones” die like Oreb, Zebah, and Zalmunna, who said in their pride, “We will seize God’s people along with all their pleasant lands!”" 
Psalms83:12  
Psalms83:13 Blow them away, God, like straw in the wind, like a tumbleweed in the wilderness!" 
Psalms83:14 Burn them up like a raging fire roaring down the mountainside; consume them all until only charred sticks remain! 
Psalms83:15 Chase them away like before a mighty storm and terrifying tempest. 
Psalms83:16 O Lord, disgrace them until their faces fill with shame, and make them acknowledge the glory of your name." 
Psalms83:17 Make them utter failures in everything they do until they perish in total disgrace and humiliation," 
Psalms83:18 so they will know that you, and you alone, are Yahweh, the only Most High God exalted over all the earth!" 
Psalms84:1 God of Heaven’s Armies, you find so much beauty in your people! They’re like lovely sanctuaries of your presence." 
Psalms84:2 Deep within me are these lovesick longings, desires and daydreams of living in union with you. When I’m near you, my heart and my soul will sing and worship with my joyful songs of you, my true source and spring of life!" 
Psalms84:3 O Lord of Heaven’s Armies, my King and my God, even the sparrows and swallows are welcome to build a nest among your altars to raise their young." 
Psalms84:4 What pleasure fills those who live every day in your temple, enjoying you as they worship in your presence!" 
Psalms84:5 How enriched are they who find their strength in the Lord; within their hearts are the highways of holiness! 
Psalms84:6 Even when their paths wind through the dark valley of tears, they dig deep to find a pleasant pool where others find only pain. He gives to them a brook of blessing filled from the rain of an outpouring." 
Psalms84:7 They grow stronger and stronger with every step forward, and the God of all gods will appear before them in Zion." 
Psalms84:8 Hear my cry, O God of Heaven’s Armies! God of Jacob, listen to my loving prayer." 
Psalms84:9 God, your wraparound presence is our defense. In your kindness look upon the faces of your anointed ones." 
Psalms84:10 For just one day of intimacy with you is like a thousand days of joy rolled into one! I’d rather stand at the threshold in front of the Gate Beautiful, ready to go in and worship my God, than to live my life without you in the most beautiful palace of the wicked." 
Psalms84:11 For the Lord God is brighter than the brilliance of a sunrise! Wrapping himself around me like a shield, he is so generous with his gifts of grace and glory. Those who walk along his paths with integrity will never lack one thing they need, for he provides it all!" 
Psalms84:12 O Lord of Heaven’s Armies, what euphoria fills those who forever trust in you!" 
Psalms85:1 Lord, your love has poured out so many amazing blessings on our land! You’ve restored Jacob’s destiny from captivity." 
Psalms85:2 You’ve forgiven our many sins and covered every one of them in your love. 
Psalms85:3 So now it’s obvious that your blazing anger has ended and the furious fire of wrath has been extinguished by your mercy. 
Psalms85:4 So bring us back to loving you, God our Savior. Restore our hearts so that we’ll never again feel your anger rise against us." 
Psalms85:5 Will you forever hold a grudge? Will your anger endure for all time? 
Psalms85:6 Revive us again, O God! I know you will! Give us a fresh start! Then all your people will taste your joy and gladness." 
Psalms85:7 Pour out even more of your love on us! Reveal more of your kindness and restore us back to you! 
Psalms85:8 Now I’ll listen carefully for your voice and wait to hear whatever you say. Let me hear your promise of peace— the message every one of your godly lovers longs to hear. Don’t let us in our ignorance turn back from following you. 
Psalms85:9 For I know your power and presence shines on all your devoted lovers. Your glory always hovers over all who bow low before you. 
Psalms85:10 Your mercy and your truth have married each other. Your righteousness and peace have kissed. 
Psalms85:11 Flowers of your faithfulness are blooming on the earth. Righteousness shines down from the sky. 
Psalms85:12 Yes, the Lord keeps raining down blessing after blessing, and prosperity will drench the land with a bountiful harvest." 
Psalms85:13 For deliverance goes before him, preparing a path for his steps." 
Psalms86:1 Lord, bend down to listen to my prayer. I am in deep trouble. I’m broken and humbled, and I desperately need your help." 
Psalms86:2 Guard my life, for I’m your faithful friend, your loyal servant for life. I turn to you in faith, my God, my hero; come and rescue me!" 
Psalms86:3 Lord God, hear my constant cry for help; show me your favor and bring me to your fountain of grace!" 
Psalms86:4 Restore joy to your loving servant once again, for all I am is yours, O God." 
Psalms86:5 Lord, you are so good to me, so kind in every way and ready to forgive, for your grace-fountain keeps overflowing, drenching all your devoted lovers who pray to you." 
Psalms86:6 God, won’t you pay attention to this urgent cry? Lord, bend down to listen to my prayer." 
Psalms86:7 Whenever trouble strikes, I will keep crying out to you, for I know your help is on the way." 
Psalms86:8 God, there’s no one like you; there’s no other god as famous as you. You outshine all others, and your miracles make it easy to know you." 
Psalms86:9 Lord Almighty, you are the one who created all the nations. Look at them—they’re all on their way! Yes, the day will come when they all will worship you and put your glory on display." 
Psalms86:10 You are the one and only God. What miracles! What wonders! What greatness belongs to you! 
Psalms86:11 Teach me more about you, how you work and how you move, so that I can walk onward in your truth until everything within me brings honor to your name." 
Psalms86:12 With all my heart and passion I will thank you, my God! I will give glory to your name, always and forever!" 
Psalms86:13 You love me so much, and you have placed your greatness upon me. You rescued me from the deepest place of darkness, and you have delivered me from a certain death." 
Psalms86:14 God, look at how these arrogant ones have defied me. Like a vicious band of violent men, they have tried to kill me. They wouldn’t worry for a moment that they were sinning against you!" 
Psalms86:15 But Lord, your nurturing love is tender and gentle. You are slow to get angry yet so swift to show your faithful love. You are full of abounding grace and truth." 
Psalms86:16 Bring me to your grace-fountain so that your strength becomes mine. Be my hero and come rescue your servant once again! 
Psalms86:17 Send me a miraculous sign to show me how much you love me, so that those who hate me will see it and be ashamed. Don’t they know that you, Lord, are my comforter, the one who comes to help me?" 
Psalms87:1 High upon his hills of holiness stands God’s city. 
Psalms87:2 How God loves the gates of Zion, his favorite place on earth." 
Psalms87:3 So many glorious things have been proclaimed over Zion, God’s holy city!" 
Psalms87:4 For the Lord says, “Here are the nations who will acknowledge me as God: Egypt, Iraq, Palestine, and the Mediterranean people, even distant Ethiopia. They will all boast, ‘I was born in Zion!’ ”" 
Psalms87:5 But over Zion it will be said, “The mighty Man was born there, and he will establish it.” For the God Most High will truly bless Jerusalem." 
Psalms87:6 And when he counts her citizens, recording them in his registry, he will write by their names: “This one was born again here!”" 
Psalms87:7 And the princes of God’s feasts will sing and dance, singing, “Every fountain of delight springs up from your life within me!”" 
Psalms88:1 Yahweh is the God who continually saves me. I weep before you night and day. 
Psalms88:2 Please bend down and listen to my sobbing, for my life is riddled with troubles and death is just around the corner!" 
Psalms88:3 Everyone sees my life ebbing out. They consider me a hopeless case and see me as a dead man. 
Psalms88:4 They’ve all left me here to die, helpless, like one who is doomed for death." 
Psalms88:5 They’re convinced you’ve forsaken me, certain that you’ve forgotten me completely— abandoned, pierced, with nothing to look forward to but death." 
Psalms88:6 They have discarded me and thrown me down into the deepest darkness as into a bottomless pit. 
Psalms88:7 I feel your wrath, and it’s a heavy weight upon me, drowning me beneath a sea of sorrow." 
Psalms88:8 Why did you turn all my friends against me? You’ve made me like a cursed man in their eyes. No one wants to be with me now. You’ve caught me in a trap with no way out. 
Psalms88:9 Every day I beg for your help. Can’t you see my tears? My eyes are swollen with weeping. My arms are wide, longing for mercy, but you’re nowhere to be found." 
Psalms88:10 How can those who are cut off from your care even know that you are there? Do departed spirits rise up to praise you? 
Psalms88:11 Who can give thanks for your love in the graveyard? Who preaches your faithfulness in the place of destruction? 
Psalms88:12 Does death’s darkness declare your miracles? How can anyone who’s in the grave, where all is forgotten, remember how you keep your promises?" 
Psalms88:13 Lord, you know my prayer before I even whisper it. At each and every sunrise you will continue to hear my cry until you answer." 
Psalms88:14 O Lord, why have you thrown my life away? Will you keep turning the other way every time I call out to you?" 
Psalms88:15 I’ve had to live in poverty and trouble all my life. Now I’m humiliated, broken, and helpless before your terrors and I can’t take it anymore." 
Psalms88:16 I’m overwhelmed by your burning anger. I’ve taken the worst you could give me, and I’m speechless before you." 
Psalms88:17 I’m drowning beneath the waves of this sorrow, cut off with no one to help." 
Psalms88:18 All my loved ones and friends keep far away from me, leaving me all alone with only darkness as my friend." 
Psalms89:1 This forever-song I sing of the gentle love of God! Young and old alike will hear about your faithful, steadfast love—never failing!" 
Psalms89:2 Here’s my chorus: “Your mercy grows through the ages. Your faithfulness is firm, rising up to the skies.”" 
Psalms89:3 I heard the Lord say, “My covenant has been made, and I’m committed forever to my chosen one, David." 
Psalms89:4 I have made my oath that there will be sons of David forever, sons that are kings through every generation.”" 
Psalms89:5 Can you hear it? Heaven is filled with your praises, O Lord! All the holy ones are praising you for your miracles. The sons of God are all praising you for your mighty wonders. We could search the skies forever and never find one like you. All the mighty angels could not be compared to you." 
Psalms89:6  
Psalms89:7 You are a God who is greatly to be feared as you preside over the council of holy ones. You are surrounded by trembling ones who are overwhelmed with fear and dread, stunned as they stand in awe of you!" 
Psalms89:8 So awesome are you, O  Yahweh, Lord God of Angel Armies! Where could we find anyone as glorious as you? Your faithfulness shines all around you!" 
Psalms89:9 You rule over oceans and the swelling seas. When their stormy waves rise, you speak, and they lie still." 
Psalms89:10 You crushed the strongholds of Egypt, and all your enemies were scattered at the mighty display of your glory-power." 
Psalms89:11 All the heavens and everything on earth belong to you, for you are the Creator of all that is seen and unseen." 
Psalms89:12 The four corners of the earth were put in place by you. You made the majestic mountains that are still shouting their praises to your name. 
Psalms89:13 Breathtaking and awesome is your power! Astounding and unbelievable is your might and strength when it goes on display! 
Psalms89:14 Your glorious throne rests on a foundation of righteousness and just verdicts. Grace and truth are the attendants who go before you. 
Psalms89:15 O Lord, how blessed are the people who know the triumphant shout, for they walk in the radiance of your presence." 
Psalms89:16 We can do nothing but leap for joy all day long, for we know who you are and what you do, and you’ve exalted us on high." 
Psalms89:17 The glory of your splendor is our strength, and your marvelous favor makes us even stronger, lifting us even higher!" 
Psalms89:18 You are our King, the holiest one of all; your wraparound presence is our protection." 
Psalms89:19 You spoke to your prophets in visions, saying, “I have found a mighty hero for my people. I have chosen David as my loving servant and exalted him. I have anointed him as king with the oil of my holiness." 
Psalms89:20  
Psalms89:21 I will be strength to him, and I will give him my grace to sustain him no matter what comes." 
Psalms89:22 None of his enemies will get the best of him, nor will the wicked one overpower him." 
Psalms89:23 For I will crush his every adversary and do away with all who hate him. 
Psalms89:24 Because I love him and treasure him, my faithfulness will always protect him. I will place my great favor upon him, and I will cause his power and fame to increase." 
Psalms89:25 I will set his hand over the sea and his right hand over the rivers. 
Psalms89:26 And he will come before me, saying, ‘You truly are my Father, my only God, and my strong deliverer!’" 
Psalms89:27 I am setting him apart, favoring him as my firstborn son. I will make him the most high king in all the earth!" 
Psalms89:28 I will love him forever and always show him kindness. My covenant with him will never be broken. 
Psalms89:29 For I have decreed that he will always have an heir— a dynasty that will release the days of heaven on earth. 
Psalms89:30 But if his children turn from me and forsake my words, refusing to walk in my truth, renouncing and violating my laws, then I will surely punish them for their sins with my stern discipline until they regret it." 
Psalms89:31  
Psalms89:32  
Psalms89:33 But I will never, no never, lift my faithful love from off their lives. My kindness will prevail and I will never disown them." 
Psalms89:34 How could I revoke my covenant of love that I promised David? For I have given him my word, my holy, irrevocable word. How could I lie to my loving servant David?" 
Psalms89:35  
Psalms89:36 Sons of David will continue to reign on his throne, and their kingdom will endure as long as the sun is in the sky. This covenant will be an unbreakable promise that I have established for all time.”" 
Psalms89:37  
Psalms89:38 Why have you rejected me, the one you anointed? Why would you cast me away? Why would you lose your temper with me?" 
Psalms89:39 You have torn up the contract you made with me, your servant. You have stripped away my crown and thrown it to the ground." 
Psalms89:40 You have torn down all my walls of defense and have made my every hiding place into ruins. 
Psalms89:41 All the passersby attack and rob me while my neighbors mock! 
Psalms89:42 Instead of fighting for me, you take the side of my enemies, even giving them strength to subdue me, and then watched them celebrate their victory!" 
Psalms89:43 You are no longer helping me in battle. You’ve forsaken me to the swords of those who would strike me down. 
Psalms89:44 You’ve made my regal splendor to decrease and allowed my rule to be overthrown. 
Psalms89:45 Because of you, I’ve become old before my time, and I’m publicly disgraced!" 
Psalms89:46 How long will you hide your love from me? Have you left me for good? How long will your anger continue to burn against me? 
Psalms89:47 Remember, Lord, I am nothing but dust, here today and so soon blown away. Is this all you’ve created us for? For nothing but this?" 
Psalms89:48 Which one of us will live forever? We are all mortal, terminal, for we will all one day die. Which one of us would ever escape our appointment with death and dodge our own funeral?" 
Psalms89:49 So God, where is all this love and kindness you promised us? What happened to your covenant with David?" 
Psalms89:50 Have you forgotten how your own servants are being slandered? Lord God, it seems like I’m carrying in my heart all the pain and abuse of many people." 
Psalms89:51 They have relentlessly insulted and persecuted us, your anointed ones." 
Psalms89:52 Nevertheless, blessed be our God forever and ever. Amen! Faithful is our King!" 
Psalms90:1 Lord, you have always been our eternal home, our hiding place from generation to generation." 
Psalms90:2 Long before you gave birth to the earth and before the mountains were born, you have been from everlasting to everlasting, the one and only true God." 
Psalms90:3 When you speak the words “Life, return to me!” man turns back to dust." 
Psalms90:4 One thousand years pass before your eyes like yesterday that quickly faded away, like a night’s sleep soon forgotten." 
Psalms90:5 One day we will each be swept away into the sleep of death. We glide along through the tides of time— so quickly gone, like a dream that fades at dawn, like glistening grass that springs up one day and is dry and withered the next, ready to be cut down!" 
Psalms90:6  
Psalms90:7 Terrified by your anger, confined beneath the curse, we live our lives knowing your wrath." 
Psalms90:8 For all of our faults and flaws are in full view to you. Everything we want to hide, you search out and expose by the radiance of your face." 
Psalms90:9 We are banished to live in the shadow of your anger. Our days soon become years until our lifetime comes to an end, finished with nothing but a sigh." 
Psalms90:10 You’ve limited our life span to a mere seventy years, yet some you give grace to live still longer. But even the best of years are marred by tears and toils and in the end are nothing more than a gravestone in a graveyard! We’re gone so quickly, so swiftly; we pass away and simply disappear." 
Psalms90:11 Lord, who fully knows the power of your passion and the intensity of your emotions?" 
Psalms90:12 Help us to remember that our days are numbered, and help us to interpret our lives correctly. Set your wisdom deeply in our hearts so that we may accept your correction." 
Psalms90:13 Return to us again, O God! How much longer will it take until you show us your abundant compassion?" 
Psalms90:14 Let the sunrise of your love end our dark night. Break through our clouded dawn again! Only you can satisfy our hearts, filling us with songs of joy to the end of our days." 
Psalms90:15 We’ve been overwhelmed with grief; come now and overwhelm us with gladness. Replace our years of trouble with decades of delight. 
Psalms90:16 Let us see your miracles again, and let the rising generation see the glorious wonders you’re famous for." 
Psalms90:17 O Lord our God, let your sweet beauty rest upon us. Come work with us, and then our works will endure; you will give us success in all we do." 
Psalms91:1 When you abide under the shadow of Shaddai, you are hidden in the strength of God Most High." 
Psalms91:2 He’s the hope that holds me and the stronghold to shelter me, the only God for me, and my great confidence." 
Psalms91:3 He will rescue you from every hidden trap of the enemy, and he will protect you from false accusation and any deadly curse." 
Psalms91:4 His massive arms are wrapped around you, protecting you. You can run under his covering of majesty and hide. His arms of faithfulness are a shield keeping you from harm." 
Psalms91:5 You will never worry about an attack of demonic forces at night nor have to fear a spirit of darkness coming against you. 
Psalms91:6 Don’t fear a thing! Whether by night or by day, demonic danger will not trouble you, nor will the powers of evil be launched against you." 
Psalms91:7 Even in a time of disaster, with thousands and thousands being killed, you will remain unscathed and unharmed." 
Psalms91:8 You will be a spectator as the wicked perish in judgment, for they will be paid back for what they have done!" 
Psalms91:9 When we live our lives within the shadow of God Most High, our secret hiding place, we will always be shielded from harm. How then could evil prevail against us or disease infect us?" 
Psalms91:10  
Psalms91:11 God sends angels with special orders to protect you wherever you go, defending you from all harm." 
Psalms91:12 If you walk into a trap, they’ll be there for you and keep you from stumbling." 
Psalms91:13 You’ll even walk unharmed among the fiercest powers of darkness, trampling every one of them beneath your feet!" 
Psalms91:14 For here is what the Lord has spoken to me: “Because you loved me, delighted in me, and have been loyal to my name, I will greatly protect you." 
Psalms91:15 I will answer your cry for help every time you pray, and you will feel my presence in your time of trouble. I will deliver you and bring you honor." 
Psalms91:16 I will satisfy you with a full life and with all that I do for you. For you will enjoy the fullness of my salvation!” 
Psalms92:1 It’s so enjoyable to come before you with uncontainable praises spilling from our hearts! How we love to sing our praises over and over to you, to the matchless God, high and exalted over all!" 
Psalms92:2 At each and every sunrise we will be thanking you for your kindness and your love. As the sun sets and all through the night, we will keep proclaiming, “You are so faithful!”" 
Psalms92:3 Melodies of praise will fill the air as every musical instrument, joined with every heart, overflows with worship." 
Psalms92:4 No wonder I’m so glad; I can’t keep it in! Lord, I’m shouting with glee over all you’ve done, for all you’ve done for me:" 
Psalms92:5 what mighty miracles and your power at work—just to name a few! Depths of purpose and layers of meaning saturate everything you do. 
Psalms92:6 Such amazing mysteries are found within every miracle that nearly everyone seems to miss. Those with no discernment can never really discover the deep and glorious secrets hidden in your ways. 
Psalms92:7 It’s true the wicked flourish, but only for a moment; they foolishly forget their destiny with death, that they will all one day be destroyed forevermore." 
Psalms92:8 But you, O Lord, are exalted forever in the highest place of endless glory," 
Psalms92:9 while your opponents, the workers of wickedness, will all perish, forever separated from you." 
Psalms92:10 Your anointing has made me strong and mighty. You’ve empowered my life for triumph by pouring fresh oil over me. 
Psalms92:11 You’ve said that those lying in wait to pounce on me would be defeated, and now it’s happened right in front of my eyes, and I’ve heard their cries of surrender!" 
Psalms92:12 Yes! Look how you’ve made all your devoted lovers to flourish like palm trees, each one growing in victory, standing with strength!" 
Psalms92:13 You’ve transplanted them into your heavenly courtyard, where they are thriving before you," 
Psalms92:14 for in your presence they will still overflow and be anointed. Even in their old age they will stay fresh, bearing luscious fruit and abiding faithfully." 
Psalms92:15 Listen to them! With pleasure they still proclaim: “You’re so good! You’re my beautiful strength! You’ve never made a mistake with me.” 
Psalms93:1 Look! Yahweh now reigns as King! He has covered himself with majesty and strength, wearing them as his splendor-garments. Regal power surrounds him as he sits securely on his throne. He’s in charge of it all, the entire world, and he knows what he’s doing!" 
Psalms93:2 Lord, you have reigned as King from the very beginning of time. Eternity is your home." 
Psalms93:3 Chaos once challenged you. The raging waves lifted themselves over and over, high above the ocean’s depths, letting out their mighty roar! Yet at the sound of your voice they were all stilled by your might. What a majestic King, filled with power!" 
Psalms93:4  
Psalms93:5 Nothing could ever change your royal decrees; they will last forever! Holiness is the beauty that fills your house; you are the one who abides forevermore! 
Psalms94:1 Lord God Almighty, you are the God who takes vengeance on your enemies. It’s time for you to punish evil! Let your rays of revelation-light shine from your people and pierce the conscience of the wicked and punish them." 
Psalms94:2 It’s time to arise as judge of all the earth; arise to punish the proud with the penalty they deserve! 
Psalms94:3 How much longer will you sit back and watch the wicked triumph in their evil, boasting in all that is wrong?" 
Psalms94:4 Listen to them bragging among themselves, big in their own eyes, all because of the crimes they’ve committed against your people! See how they’re crushing those who love you, God, cruelly oppressing those who belong to you." 
Psalms94:5  
Psalms94:6 Heartlessly they murder the widows, the foreigners, and even the orphaned children." 
Psalms94:7 They say to themselves, “The Lord God doesn’t see this. Their God, the God of Jacob, he doesn’t even care!”" 
Psalms94:8 But you’d better watch out, you stupid fools! You’d better wise up! Why would you act like God doesn’t exist? Do you really think that God can’t hear their cries?" 
Psalms94:9 God isn’t hard of hearing; he’ll hear all their cries. God isn’t blind. He who made the eye has superb vision, and he’s watching all you do." 
Psalms94:10 Won’t the God who knows all things know what you’ve done? The God who punishes nations will surely punish you! 
Psalms94:11 The Lord has fully examined every thought of man and found them all to be empty and futile. 
Psalms94:12 Lord Yah, there’s such a blessing that comes when you teach us your Word and your ways. Even the sting of your correction can be sweet." 
Psalms94:13 It rescues us from our days of trouble until you are ready to punish the wicked. 
Psalms94:14 For the Lord will never walk away from his cherished ones, nor would he forsake his chosen ones who belong to him." 
Psalms94:15 Whenever you pronounce judgments, they reveal righteousness. All your devoted lovers will be pleased." 
Psalms94:16 Lord, who will protect me from these wicked ones? If you don’t stand to defend me, who will? I have no one but you!" 
Psalms94:17 I would have been killed so many times if you had not been there for me. 
Psalms94:18 When I screamed out, “Lord, I’m doomed!” your fiery love was stirred, and you raced to my rescue." 
Psalms94:19 Whenever my busy thoughts were out of control, the soothing comfort of your presence calmed me down and overwhelmed me with delight." 
Psalms94:20 It’s obvious to all; you will have nothing to do with corrupt rulers who pass laws that empower evil and defeat what is right. 
Psalms94:21 For they gang up against the lovers of righteousness and condemn the innocent to death. 
Psalms94:22 But I know that all their evil plans will boomerang back onto them. Every plot they hatch will simply seal their own doom. For you, my God, you will destroy them, giving them what they deserve. For you are my true tower of strength, my safe place, my hideout, and my true shelter." 
Psalms94:23  
Psalms95:1 Come on, everyone! Let’s sing for joy to the Lord! Let’s shout our loudest praises to our God who saved us!" 
Psalms95:2 Everyone come meet his face with a thankful heart. Don’t hold back your praises; make him great by your shouts of joy! 
Psalms95:3 For the Lord is the greatest of all, King-God over all other gods!" 
Psalms95:4 In one hand he holds the mysteries of the earth, and in the other he holds the highest mountain peaks." 
Psalms95:5 He’s the owner of every ocean, the engineer and sculptor of earth itself!" 
Psalms95:6 Come and kneel before this Creator-God; come and bow before the mighty God, our majestic maker!" 
Psalms95:7 For we are those he cares for, and he is the God we worship. So drop everything else and listen to his voice! For this is what he’s saying: “Today, when I speak, don’t even think about turning a deaf ear to me like they did when they tested me at Meribah and Massah, the place where they argued with me, their Creator. Your ancestors challenged me over and over with their complaining, even though I had convinced them of my power and love. They still doubted my care for them." 
Psalms95:8  
Psalms95:9  
Psalms95:10 So for forty long years I was grieved and disgusted by them. I described them as wicked wanderers whose hearts would not follow my ways or keep my words. 
Psalms95:11 So I made a vow in my anger and declared, ‘They will not enter the resting place I’ve planned for them!’ So don’t you ever be hard-hearted or stubborn like they were! ”" 
Psalms96:1 Go ahead—sing your new song to the Lord! Let everyone in every language sing him a new song. 
Psalms96:2 Don’t stop! Keep on singing! Make his name famous! Tell everyone every day how wonderful he is. Give them the good news of our great Savior. Take the message of his glory and miracles to every nation. Tell them about all the amazing things he has done. 
Psalms96:3  
Psalms96:4 For the Lord’s greatness is beyond description, and he deserves all the praise that comes to him. He is our King-God, and it’s right to be in holy awe of him." 
Psalms96:5 Other gods are absolutely worthless. For the Lord God is Creator-God, who spread the splendor of the skies!" 
Psalms96:6 Breathtaking brilliance and awe-inspiring majesty radiate from his shining presence. His stunning beauty overwhelms all who come before him. 
Psalms96:7 Surrender to the Lord Yahweh, all you nations and peoples. Surrender to him all your pride and strength." 
Psalms96:8 Confess that Yahweh alone deserves all the glory and honor. Bring an offering and come celebrate in his courts. 
Psalms96:9 Come worship the Lord God wearing the splendor of holiness. Let everyone wait in wonder as they tremble in awe before him. 
Psalms96:10 Tell the nations plainly that Yahweh rules over all! He is doing a great job, and nothing will disrupt him, for he treats everyone fair and square." 
Psalms96:11 Let the skies sing for joy! Let the earth join in the chorus. Let oceans thunder and fields echo this ecstatic praise until every swaying tree of every forest joins in, lifting up their songs of joyous praise to him!" 
Psalms96:12  
Psalms96:13 For here he comes, the Lord God, and he’s ready to judge the world. He will do what’s right and can be trusted to always do what’s fair." 
Psalms97:1 Yahweh now reigns as King! Let everyone rejoice! His rule extends everywhere, even to distant lands, and the islands of the sea, let them all be glad." 
Psalms97:2 Clouds both dark and mysterious now surround him. His throne of glory rests upon a foundation of righteousness and justice. 
Psalms97:3 All around him burns a blazing glory-fire consuming all his foes. 
Psalms97:4 When his lightning strikes, it lights up the world. People are wide-eyed as they tremble and shake." 
Psalms97:5 Mountains melt away like wax in a fire when the Lord of all the earth draws near. 
Psalms97:6 Heaven’s messengers preach righteousness, and people everywhere see God’s glory in the sky!" 
Psalms97:7 Shame covers all who boast in other gods, for they worship idols. For all the supernatural powers once worshiped the true and living God." 
Psalms97:8 But God’s Zion-people are content, for they know and hear the truth. The people of praise rejoice over all your judgments, O Lord!" 
Psalms97:9 For you are King-God, the Most High God over all the earth. You are exalted above every supernatural power!" 
Psalms97:10 Listen, you lovers of God! Hate evil, for God can keep you from wrong and protect you from the power of wickedness." 
Psalms97:11 For he sows seeds of light within his devoted lovers, and seeds of joy burst forth for the lovers of God!" 
Psalms97:12 So be glad and continue to give him thanks, for God’s holiness is seen in everything he does." 
Psalms98:1 Go ahead—sing your brand-new song to the Lord! He is famous for his miracles and marvels, for he is victorious through his mighty power and holy strength." 
Psalms98:2 Everyone knows how God has saved us, for he has displayed his justice throughout history." 
Psalms98:3 He never forgets to show us his love and faithfulness. How kind he has been to Israel! All the nations know how he stands behind his people and how he saves his own. 
Psalms98:4 So go ahead, everyone, and shout out your praises with joy! Break out of the box and let loose with the most joyous sound of praise!" 
Psalms98:5 Sing your melody of praise to the Lord and make music like never before! 
Psalms98:6 Blow those trumpets and shofars! Shout with joyous triumph before King Yahweh! 
Psalms98:7 Let the ocean’s waves join in the chorus with their roaring praise until everyone everywhere shouts out in unison, “Glory to the Lord!”" 
Psalms98:8 Let the rivers and streams clap with applause as the mountains rise in a standing ovation to join the mighty choir of exaltation. 
Psalms98:9 Look! Here he comes! The Lord and judge of all the earth! He’s coming to make things right and to do it fair and square. And everyone will see that he does all things well! 
Psalms99:1 Yahweh is King over all! Everyone trembles in awe before him. He rules enthroned between the wings of the cherubim. So let the earth shake and quake in wonder before him! 
Psalms99:2 For Yahweh is great and glorious in the midst of his Zion-people. He is exalted above all! 
Psalms99:3 Let everyone praise this breathtaking God, for he is holy." 
Psalms99:4 A lover of justice is our mighty King; he is right in all his ways. He insists on being fair to all, promoting true justice and righteousness in Jacob." 
Psalms99:5 So everyone, exalt the Lord our God facedown before his glory-throne, for he is great and holy." 
Psalms99:6 God has his praying priests, like Moses, Aaron, and Samuel, who all interceded, asking God for help. God heard their cries and came to their rescue." 
Psalms99:7 He spoke to them from the pillar of clouds, and they followed his instructions, doing everything he told them." 
Psalms99:8 God, the great forgiver, answered their prayers, yet he would punish them when they went astray." 
Psalms99:9 Keep exalting the Lord our God facedown before his glory-throne, for he is great and holy!" 
Psalms100:1 Lift up a great shout of joy to Yahweh! Go ahead and do it—everyone, everywhere!" 
Psalms100:2 Worship Yahweh with gladness. Sing your way into his presence with joy! 
Psalms100:3 And realize what this really means— we have the privilege of worshiping Yahweh our God. For he is our Creator and we belong to him. We are the people of his pleasure. 
Psalms100:4 You can pass through his open gates with the password of praise. Come right into his presence with thanksgiving. Come bring your thank offering to him and affectionately bless his beautiful name! 
Psalms100:5 For Yahweh is always good and ready to receive you. He’s so loving that it will amaze you— so kind that it will astound you! And he is famous for his faithfulness toward all. Everyone knows our God can be trusted, for he keeps his promises to every generation!" 
Psalms101:1 Lord, I will sing about your faithful love for me. My song of praise will have your justice as its theme." 
Psalms101:2 I’m trying my best to walk in the way of integrity, especially in my own home. But I need your help! I’m wondering, Lord, when will you appear?" 
Psalms101:3 I refuse to gaze on that which is vulgar. I despise works of evil people and anything that moves my heart away from you. I will not let evil hold me in its grip. 
Psalms101:4 Every perverse and crooked way I have put away from my heart, for I will have nothing to do with the deeds of darkness." 
Psalms101:5 I will silence those who secretly want to slander my friends, and I will not tolerate the proud and arrogant." 
Psalms101:6 My innermost circle will only be those who I know are pure and godly. They will be the only ones I allow to minister to me. 
Psalms101:7 There’s no room in my home for hypocrites, for I can’t stand chronic liars who flatter and deceive." 
Psalms101:8 At each and every sunrise I will awake to do what’s right and put to silence those who love wickedness, freeing God’s people from their evil grip. I will do all of this because of my great love for you!" 
Psalms102:1 Lord, listen to my prayer! Listen to my cry for help!" 
Psalms102:2 You can’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Stoop down to hear my prayer and answer me quickly, Lord!" 
Psalms102:3 For my days of happiness have gone up in smoke. My body is raging with fever, my heart is sick, and I’m consumed by this illness— withered like a dead leaf. I can’t even eat." 
Psalms102:4  
Psalms102:5 I’m nothing but skin and bones. Nothing’s left of me but whispered groans. 
Psalms102:6 I’m like a pelican of the wilderness, like an owl among the ruins." 
Psalms102:7 I’m sleepless, shivering in the cold, forlorn, and friendless, like a lonely bird on the rooftop." 
Psalms102:8 My every enemy mocks and insults me incessantly. They even use my name as a curse to speak over others! 
Psalms102:9 Because of your great and furious anger against me, all I do is suffer with sorrow, with nothing to eat but a meal of mourning. My crying fills my cup with salty tears! In your wrath you have rejected me, sweeping me away like dirt on the floor." 
Psalms102:10  
Psalms102:11 My days are marked by the lengthening shadows of death. I’m withering away and there’s nothing left of me. 
Psalms102:12 But then I remember that you, O Lord, still sit enthroned as King over all! The fame of your name will be revealed to every generation." 
Psalms102:13 I know you are about to arise and show your tender love to Zion. Now is the time, Lord, for your compassion and mercy to be poured out— the appointed time has come for your prophetic promises to be fulfilled!" 
Psalms102:14 For your servants weep in sympathy over Zion’s ruins and feel love for her every stone. 
Psalms102:15 When you arise to intervene, all the nations and kings will be stunned and will fear your awesome name, trembling before your glory!" 
Psalms102:16 Yes, you will reveal yourself to Zion and appear in the brightness of your glory to restore her and give her children." 
Psalms102:17 He responds to the prayer of the poor and broken and will not despise the cry of the homeless. 
Psalms102:18 Write all this down for the coming generation, so re-created people will read it and praise the Lord!" 
Psalms102:19 Tell them how Yah looked down from his high and holy place, gazing from his glory to survey the earth." 
Psalms102:20 He listened to all the groaning of his people longing to be free, and he set loose the sons of death to experience life." 
Psalms102:21 Multitudes will stream to Jerusalem to praise the Lord and declare his name in Zion! 
Psalms102:22 Peoples from every land, their kings and kingdoms, will gather together to worship the Lord." 
Psalms102:23 But God has brought me to my knees, shortening my life." 
Psalms102:24 So I cry out to you, my God, Father of eternity, please don’t let me die! I know my life is not yet finished." 
Psalms102:25 With your hands you once formed the foundations of the earth and handcrafted the heavens above. 
Psalms102:26 They will all fade away one day like worn-out clothing, ready to be discarded, but you’ll still be here. You will replace it all! Your first creation will be changed, but you alone will endure, the God of all eternity!" 
Psalms102:27  
Psalms102:28 Generation after generation our descendants will live securely, for you are the one protecting us, keeping us for yourself." 
Psalms103:1 With my whole heart, with my whole life, and with my innermost being, I bow in wonder and love before you, the holy God!" 
Psalms103:2 Yahweh, you are my soul’s celebration. How could I ever forget the miracles of kindness you’ve done for me?" 
Psalms103:3 You kissed my heart with forgiveness, in spite of all I’ve done. You’ve healed me inside and out from every disease." 
Psalms103:4 You’ve rescued me from hell and saved my life. You’ve crowned me with love and mercy. 
Psalms103:5 You satisfy my every desire with good things. You’ve supercharged my life so that I soar again like a flying eagle in the sky! 
Psalms103:6 You’re a God who makes things right, giving justice to the defenseless." 
Psalms103:7 You unveiled to Moses your plans and showed Israel’s sons what you could do. 
Psalms103:8 Lord, you’re so kind and tenderhearted and so patient with people who fail you! Your love is like a flooding river overflowing its banks with kindness." 
Psalms103:9 You don’t look at us only to find our faults, just so that you can hold a grudge against us." 
Psalms103:10 You may discipline us for our many sins, but never as much as we really deserve. Nor do you get even with us for what we’ve done." 
Psalms103:11 Higher than the highest heavens— that’s how high your tender mercy extends! Greater than the grandeur of heaven above is the greatness of your loyal love, towering over all who fear you and bow down before you!" 
Psalms103:12 Farther than from a sunrise to a sunset— that’s how far you’ve removed our guilt from us. 
Psalms103:13 The same way a loving father feels toward his children— that’s but a sample of your tender feelings toward us, your beloved children, who live in awe of you." 
Psalms103:14 You know all about us, inside and out. You are mindful that we’re made from dust." 
Psalms103:15 Our days are so few, and our momentary beauty so swiftly fades away!" 
Psalms103:16 Then all of a sudden we’re gone, like grass clippings blown away in a gust of wind, taken away to our appointment with death, leaving nothing to show that we were here." 
Psalms103:17 But Lord, your endless love stretches from one eternity to the other, unbroken and unrelenting toward those who fear you and those who bow facedown in awe before you. Your faithfulness to keep every gracious promise you’ve made passes from parents, to children, to grandchildren, and beyond." 
Psalms103:18 You are faithful to all those who follow your ways and keep your word. 
Psalms103:19 Yahweh has established his throne in heaven; his kingdom rules the entire universe. 
Psalms103:20 So bless the Lord, all his messengers of power, for you are his mighty heroes who listen intently to the voice of his word to do it." 
Psalms103:21 Bless and praise the Lord, you mighty warriors, ministers who serve him well and fulfill his desires." 
Psalms103:22 I will bless and praise the Lord with my whole heart! Let all his works throughout the earth, wherever his dominion stretches— let everything bless the Lord!" 
Psalms104:1 Everything I am will praise and bless the Lord! O Lord, my God, your greatness takes my breath away, overwhelming me by your majesty, beauty, and splendor!" 
Psalms104:2 You wrap yourself with a shimmering, glistening light. You wear sunshine like a garment of glory. You stretch out the starry skies like a tapestry." 
Psalms104:3 You build your balconies with light beams and ride as King in a chariot you made from clouds. You fly upon the wings of the wind. 
Psalms104:4 You make your messengers into winds of the Spirit, and all your ministers become flames of fire." 
Psalms104:5 You, our Creator, formed the earth, and you hold it all together so it will never fall apart." 
Psalms104:6 You poured the ocean depths over the planet, submerging mountains beneath." 
Psalms104:7 Yet at the sound of your thunder-shout the waters all fled away, filling the deep with seas." 
Psalms104:8 The mountains rose and valleys sank to the levels you decreed for them. 
Psalms104:9 Then you set a boundary line for the seas and commanded them not to trespass. 
Psalms104:10 You sent springs cascading through the valleys, flowing freely between the mountains and hills." 
Psalms104:11 You provide drink for every living thing; men and beasts have their thirst quenched because of you. 
Psalms104:12 The birds build nests near the tranquil streams, chirping their joyous songs from the branches above." 
Psalms104:13 From your kindness you send the rain to water the mountains from the upper rooms of your palace. Your goodness brings forth fruit for all to enjoy. 
Psalms104:14 Your compassion brings the earth’s harvest, feeding the hungry. You cause the grass to grow for livestock, along with the fruit, grains, and vegetables to feed mankind." 
Psalms104:15 You provide sweet wine to gladden hearts. You give us daily bread to sustain life, giving us glowing health for our bodies." 
Psalms104:16 The trees of the Lord drink until they’re satisfied. Lebanon’s lofty trees stand tall right where you planted them. 
Psalms104:17 Within their branches you provide for birds a place to build their nests; even herons find a home in the cypress trees. 
Psalms104:18 You make the high mountains a home for wild goats and the rocky crag where the rock badgers burrow. 
Psalms104:19 You made the moon to mark the months and the sun to measure the days. 
Psalms104:20 You turn off the light and it becomes night, and all the beasts of the forest come out to prowl." 
Psalms104:21 The mighty lions roar for their dinner, but it’s you, God, who feeds them all." 
Psalms104:22 At sunrise they slink back to their dens to crouch down in the shadows. 
Psalms104:23 Then man goes out to his labor and toil, working from dawn to dusk." 
Psalms104:24 O Lord, what an amazing variety of all you have created! Wild and wonderful is this world you have made, while wisdom was there at your side. This world is full of so many creatures, yet each belongs to you!" 
Psalms104:25 And then there is the sea! So vast! So wide and deep— swarming with countless forms of sea life, both small and great." 
Psalms104:26 Trading ships glide through the high seas. And look! There are the massive whales bounding upon the waves. 
Psalms104:27 All the creatures wait expectantly for you to give them their food as you determine. 
Psalms104:28 You come near and they all gather around, feasting from your open hands, and each is satisfied from your abundant supply." 
Psalms104:29 But if you were to withhold from them and turn away, they all would panic. And when you choose to take away their breath, each one dies and returns to the dust." 
Psalms104:30 When you release your Spirit-Wind, life is created, ready to replenish life upon the earth." 
Psalms104:31 May God’s glorious splendor endure forever! May the Lord take joy and pleasure in all that he has made. 
Psalms104:32 For the earth’s overseer has the power to make it tremble; just a touch of his finger and volcanoes erupt as the earth shakes and melts. 
Psalms104:33 I will sing my song to the Lord as long as I live! Every day I will sing my praises to God. 
Psalms104:34 May you be pleased with every sweet thought I have about you, for you are the source of my joy and gladness." 
Psalms104:35 Now, let all the sinners be swept from the earth. But I will keep on praising you, my Lord, with all that is within me. My joyous, blissful shouts of “Hallelujah” are all because of you!" 
Psalms105:1 Go ahead and give God thanks for all the glorious things he has done! Go ahead and worship him! Tell everyone about his wonders! 
Psalms105:2 Let’s sing his praises! Sing, and put all of his miracles to music!" 
Psalms105:3 Shine and make your joyful boast in him, you lovers of God. Let’s be happy and keep rejoicing no matter what." 
Psalms105:4 Seek more of his strength! Seek more of him! Let’s always be seeking the light of his face. 
Psalms105:5 Don’t you ever forget his miracles and marvels. Hold to your heart every judgment he has decreed. 
Psalms105:6 For you are his servants, the true seed of Abraham, and you are the chosen ones, Jacob’s sons." 
Psalms105:7 For he is the Lord our God, and his wise authority can be seen in all he does." 
Psalms105:8 For though a thousand generations may pass away, he is still true to his word. He has kept every promise he made to Abraham and to Isaac." 
Psalms105:9  
Psalms105:10 His promises have become an everlasting covenant to Jacob, as a decree to Jacob." 
Psalms105:11 He said to them, “I will give you all the land of Canaan as your inheritance.”" 
Psalms105:12 They were very few in number when God gave them that promise, and they were all foreigners to that land." 
Psalms105:13 They were wandering from one land to another and from one kingdom to another. 
Psalms105:14 Yet God would not permit anyone to touch them, punishing even kings who came against them." 
Psalms105:15 He said to them, “Don’t you dare lay a hand on my anointed ones, and don’t do a thing to hurt my prophets!”" 
Psalms105:16 So God decreed a famine upon Canaan-land, cutting off their food supply." 
Psalms105:17 But he had already sent a man ahead of his people to Egypt; it was Joseph, who was sold as a slave." 
Psalms105:18 His feet were bruised by strong shackles and his soul was held by iron. 
Psalms105:19 God’s promise to Joseph purged his character until it was time for his dreams to come true. 
Psalms105:20 Eventually, the king of Egypt sent for him, setting him free at last." 
Psalms105:21 Then Joseph was put in charge of everything under the king; he became the master of the palace over all the royal possessions. 
Psalms105:22 Pharoah gave him authority over all the princes of the land, and Joseph became the teacher of wisdom to the king’s advisers." 
Psalms105:23 Then Jacob, with all of Joseph’s family, came from Canaan to Egypt and settled in Goshen." 
Psalms105:24 God made them very fruitful, and they multiplied incredibly until they were greater in number than those who ruled them." 
Psalms105:25 God turned their hearts to hate his people and to deal treacherously with his servants. 
Psalms105:26 But he sent them his faithful servant, Moses, the deliverer, and chose Aaron to accompany him." 
Psalms105:27 Their command brought down signs and wonders, working miracles in Egypt." 
Psalms105:28 By God’s direction, they spoke and released a plague of thick darkness over the land." 
Psalms105:29 God turned their rivers to blood, causing every fish to die." 
Psalms105:30 And the judgment-plague of frogs came in enormous numbers, swarming everywhere, even into Pharaoh’s bedroom!" 
Psalms105:31 God spoke and another plague was released— massive swarms of flies, vast clouds of insects, covered the land." 
Psalms105:32 God rained down hail and flaming fire upon Egypt. 
Psalms105:33 Their gardens and vines were all destroyed, shattering trees into splinters throughout the territory." 
Psalms105:34 God spoke, and devouring hordes of locusts swept over the land," 
Psalms105:35 picking the ground clean of vegetation and crops. 
Psalms105:36 Then God struck down their firstborn sons, the pride and joy of every Egyptian family." 
Psalms105:37 At last, God freed all the Hebrews from their slavery and sent them away laden with the silver and gold of Egypt. And not even one was feeble on their way out!" 
Psalms105:38 Egypt was relieved at their exodus, ready to see them go, for the terror of the Lord of the Hebrews had fallen upon them!" 
Psalms105:39 God spread out a cloud as shade as they moved ahead and a cloud of fire to light up their night. 
Psalms105:40 Moses prayed and God brought them quail to eat. He satisfied them with heaven’s bread falling from the sky. 
Psalms105:41 He broke open the boulder and the waters poured out like a river in the desert. 
Psalms105:42 For God could never forget his holy promise to his servant Abraham. 
Psalms105:43 So God brought out his chosen ones with singing; with a joyful shout they were set free! 
Psalms105:44 He gave them lands and nations, just like he promised. Fruitful lands of crops they had never planted were now theirs." 
Psalms105:45 All this was done for them so that they would be faithful to keep the ways of God, obeying his laws and following his truths. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms106:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Everyone thank God, for he is good and easy to please. Your tender love for us, Lord, continues on forever." 
Psalms106:2 Who could ever fully describe your glorious miracles? Yahweh, who could ever praise you enough?" 
Psalms106:3 The happiest one on earth is the one who keeps your word and clings to righteousness every moment. 
Psalms106:4 So remember me, Lord, as you take joy in your people. And when you come to bring the blessings of salvation, don’t forget me!" 
Psalms106:5 Let me share in the wealth and beauty of all your devoted lovers, rejoice with your nation in all their joys, and let me share in the glory you give to your chosen ones." 
Psalms106:6 We have all sinned so much, just like our fathers. “Guilty” is written over our lives." 
Psalms106:7 Our fathers who were delivered from Egypt didn’t fully understand your wonders, and they took you for granted. Over and over you showed them such tender love and mercy! Yet they were barely beyond the Red Sea when they rebelled against you." 
Psalms106:8 Nonetheless, you saved them more than once so they would know how powerful you are, showing them the honor of your name." 
Psalms106:9 You roared over the waters of the Red Sea, making a dry path for your people to cross through." 
Psalms106:10 You freed them from the strong power of those who oppressed them and rescued them from bondage. 
Psalms106:11 Then the waters rushed over their enemies and drowned them all— not one survived. 
Psalms106:12 Seeing this, the people believed your words, and they all broke out with songs of praise!" 
Psalms106:13 Yet how quickly they forgot your miracles of power. They wouldn’t wait for you to act when they were hungry," 
Psalms106:14 but demanded you satisfy their cravings and give them food! They tested you to the breaking point. 
Psalms106:15 So you gave them what they wanted to eat, but their souls starved away to nothing." 
Psalms106:16 They became envious of Moses and Aaron, your holy ones." 
Psalms106:17 You split open the earth, and it swallowed up Dathan and Abiram along with their followers." 
Psalms106:18 Fire fell from heaven and burnt up all the band of rebels, turning them to ashes." 
Psalms106:19 They made an idol of a calf at Sinai and bowed to worship their man-made statue. 
Psalms106:20 They preferred the image of a grass-eating ox to the presence of the glory-filled God. 
Psalms106:21 They totally forgot it was you who saved them by the wonders and awesome miracles you worked in Egypt. 
Psalms106:22  
Psalms106:23 So you decided to destroy them. But Moses, your chosen leader, stood in the gap between you and the people and made intercession on their behalf to turn away your wrath from killing them all." 
Psalms106:24 Yet they still didn’t believe your words and they despised the land of delight you gave to them. 
Psalms106:25 They grumbled and found fault with everything and closed their hearts to your voice. 
Psalms106:26 So you solemnly swore to them that they would all die in the desert. 
Psalms106:27 And you scattered their children to distant lands to die as exiles. 
Psalms106:28 Then our fathers joined the worshipers of the false god named “Lord of the Pit.” They even ate the sacrifices offered to the dead! 
Psalms106:29 All they did made you burn with anger. It made you so angry that a plague broke out among them! 
Psalms106:30 It continued until Phineas intervened and executed the guilty for causing judgment to fall upon them. 
Psalms106:31 Because of this deed of righteousness Phineas will be remembered forever. 
Psalms106:32 Your people also provoked you to wrath at the stream called Strife. This is where Moses got into serious trouble! 
Psalms106:33 Because the people were rebellious against you, Moses exploded in anger and spoke to them out of his bitterness." 
Psalms106:34 Neither did our fathers destroy the enemies in the land, as you had commanded them." 
Psalms106:35 But they mingled themselves with their enemies and learned to copy their works of darkness. 
Psalms106:36 They began to serve their gods and bow before their idols. All of this led them away from you and brought about their downfall. 
Psalms106:37 They even sacrificed their little children to the demon spirits," 
Psalms106:38 shedding the innocent blood of their sons and daughters. These dark practices greatly defiled the land and their own souls, through the murder and bloodshed of their own babies! Their sins made them spiritual adulterers before you." 
Psalms106:39  
Psalms106:40 This is why you were furious. As your anger burned hot against them, you couldn’t even stand to look at your very own people any longer!" 
Psalms106:41 So you turned them over to the crushing hands of other nations, and those who hated them became tyrants over them." 
Psalms106:42 Oppressive enemies subdued them, ruling over them with their tyranny." 
Psalms106:43 Many times you would have come to rescue them, but they continued in their rebellious ways, choosing to ignore your warnings. Then they sank lower and lower, destroyed by their depravity." 
Psalms106:44 Yet even so, you waited and waited, watching to see if they would turn and cry out to you for a father’s help. And then, when you heard their cry, you relented and you remembered your covenant, and you turned your heart toward them again, according to your abundant, overflowing, and limitless love." 
Psalms106:45  
Psalms106:46 Then you caused even their oppressors to pity them and show them compassion. 
Psalms106:47 Do it again, Lord! Save us, O Lord, our God! Gather us from our exile and unite us together so that we will give our great and joyous thanks to you again and bring you glory by our praises." 
Psalms106:48 Blessed be our Lord God forever and ever. And let everyone everywhere say, “Hallelujah!” Amen! Faithful is our King!" 
Psalms107:1 Let everyone give all their praise and thanks to the Lord! Here’s why—he’s better than anyone could ever imagine. Yes, he’s always loving and kind, and his faithful love never ends." 
Psalms107:2 So, go ahead—let everyone know it! Tell the world how he broke through and delivered you from the power of darkness and has gathered us together from all over the world. He has set us free to be his very own!" 
Psalms107:3  
Psalms107:4 Some of us once wandered in the wilderness like desert nomads, with no true direction or dwelling place." 
Psalms107:5 Starving, thirsting, staggering, we became desperate and filled with despair." 
Psalms107:6 Then we cried out, “Lord, help us! Rescue us!” And he did!" 
Psalms107:7 He led us out by the right way until we reached a suitable city to dwell in. 
Psalms107:8 So lift your hands and thank God for his marvelous kindness and for all his miracles of mercy for those he loves. 
Psalms107:9 How he satisfies the souls of thirsty ones and fills the hungry with goodness! 
Psalms107:10 Some of us once sat in darkness, living in the dark shadows of death. We were prisoners to our pain, chained to our regrets." 
Psalms107:11 For we rebelled against God’s Word and rejected the wise counsel of God Most High. 
Psalms107:12 So he humbled us through our circumstances, watching us as we stumbled, with no one there to pick us back up. Our own pain became our punishment." 
Psalms107:13 Then we cried out, “Lord, help us! Rescue us!” And he did!" 
Psalms107:14 His light broke through the darkness and he led us out in freedom from death’s dark shadow and snapped every one of our chains. 
Psalms107:15 So lift your hands and give thanks to God for his marvelous kindness and for his miracles of mercy for those he loves! 
Psalms107:16 For he smashed through heavy prison doors and shattered the steel bars that held us back, just to set us free!" 
Psalms107:17 Some of us were such fools, bringing on ourselves sorrow and suffering all because of our sins." 
Psalms107:18 Sick and feeble, unable to stand the sight of food, we drew near to the gates of death." 
Psalms107:19 Then we cried out, “Lord, help us! Rescue us!” And he did!" 
Psalms107:20 God spoke the words “Be healed,” and we were healed, delivered from death’s door!" 
Psalms107:21 So lift your hands and give thanks to God for his marvelous kindness and for his miracles of mercy for those he loves! 
Psalms107:22 Bring your praise as an offering and your thanks as a sacrifice as you sing your story of miracles with a joyful song. 
Psalms107:23 Some of us set sail upon the sea to faraway ports, transporting our goods from ship to shore." 
Psalms107:24 We were witnesses of God’s power out in the ocean deep; we saw breathtaking wonders upon the high seas. 
Psalms107:25 When God spoke he stirred up a storm, lifting high the waves with hurricane winds." 
Psalms107:26 Ships were tossed by the swelling sea, rising to the sky, then dropping down to the depths, reeling like drunkards, spinning like tops, everyone at their wits’ end until even sailors despaired of life, cringing in terror." 
Psalms107:27  
Psalms107:28 Then we cried out, “Lord, help us! Rescue us!” And he did!" 
Psalms107:29 God stilled the storm, calmed the waves, and he hushed the hurricane winds to only a whisper." 
Psalms107:30 We were so relieved, so glad as he guided us safely to harbor in a quiet haven." 
Psalms107:31 So lift your hands and give thanks to God for his marvelous kindness and for his miracles of mercy for those he loves! 
Psalms107:32 Let’s exalt him on high and lift up our praises in public; let all the people and the leaders of the nation know how great and wonderful is Yahweh, our God!" 
Psalms107:33 Whenever he chooses he can dry up a river and turn the land into a desert. 
Psalms107:34 Or he can take a fruitful land and make it into a saltwater swamp, all because of the wickedness of those who dwell there." 
Psalms107:35 But he also can turn a barren wilderness into an oasis with water! He can make springs flow into desert lands 
Psalms107:36 and turn them into fertile valleys so that cities spring up, and he gives it all to those who are hungry." 
Psalms107:37 They can plant their fields and vineyards there and reap a bumper crop and gather a fruitful harvest. 
Psalms107:38 God will bless them and cause them to multiply and prosper. 
Psalms107:39 But others will become poor, humbled because of their oppression, tyranny, and sorrows." 
Psalms107:40 For God pours contempt upon their arrogant abuse of power, heaping scorn upon their princes, and makes them wander among ruins." 
Psalms107:41 But he raises up the poor and lowly with his favor, giving them a safe place to live where no one can touch them. God will grant them a large family and bless them!" 
Psalms107:42 The lovers of God will rejoice when they see this. Good men are glad when the evil ones are silenced. 
Psalms107:43 If you are truly wise, you’ll learn from what I’ve told you. It’s time for you to consider these profound lessons of God’s great love and mercy!" 
Psalms108:1 My heart, O God, is focused and determined. Now I can sing my song with passionate praises! Awake, O my soul, with the music of his splendor." 
Psalms108:2 Arise, my soul, and sing his praises! I will awaken the dawn with my worship, greeting the daybreak with my songs of light." 
Psalms108:3 Wherever I go, I will thank you. All the nations will hear my praise songs to you." 
Psalms108:4 Your love is so extravagant, it reaches higher than the heavens! Your faithfulness is so astonishing, it stretches to the skies!" 
Psalms108:5 Lord God, be exalted as you soar throughout the heavens. May your shining glory be seen high above all the earth!" 
Psalms108:6 Come to your beloved ones and gently draw us out. Answer our prayer for your saving help. Come with your might and strength, for we need you, Lord!" 
Psalms108:7 Then I heard the Lord speak in his holy splendor, and from his sanctuary I heard the Lord promise: “In my triumph I will be the one to measure out the portion of my inheritance to my people, and I will secure the land as I promised you. Shechem, Succoth, Gilead, Manasseh — they are all still mine!” he says. “Judah will continue to produce kings and lawgivers, and Ephraim will produce great warriors. Moab will become my lowly servant. Edom will likewise serve my purposes. I will lift up a shout of victory over the land of Philistia!" 
Psalms108:8  
Psalms108:9  
Psalms108:10 But who will bring my triumph into Edom’s fortresses?” 
Psalms108:11 Lord, have you really rejected us, refusing to fight our battles?" 
Psalms108:12 Give us a father’s help when we face our enemies. For to trust in any man is an empty hope. 
Psalms108:13 With God’s help we will prevail with might and power. And with God’s help we’ll trample down our every foe! 
Psalms109:1 God of all my praise, don’t stand silently by, aloof to my pain," 
Psalms109:2 while the wicked slander me with their lies. Even right in front of my face they lie through their teeth. 
Psalms109:3 I’ve done nothing to them, but they still surround me with their venomous words of hatred and vitriol." 
Psalms109:4 Though I love them, they stand accusing me like Satan for what I’ve never done. I will pray until I become prayer itself." 
Psalms109:5 They continually repay me with evil when I show them good. They give me hatred when I show them love. 
Psalms109:6 Show him how it feels! Let accusing liars be raised up against him, like Satan himself standing right next to him. And let him be declared guilty by a wicked judge. May even his prayers be seen as sinful!" 
Psalms109:7  
Psalms109:8 Shorten his life and let another replace him! 
Psalms109:9 Make his wife a widow and his children orphans! 
Psalms109:10 Let them wander as beggars in the street, like homeless vagabonds, evicted from their ruins!" 
Psalms109:11 Let the creditors seize his entire estate, and strangers, like vultures, take all that’s left!" 
Psalms109:12 Let no one be kind to him by showing pity to his fatherless children! 
Psalms109:13 May all his posterity die with him! Cut down his family tree! 
Psalms109:14 And may all the sins of his ancestors be recorded, remembered before you, forever! Cut off even the memory of his family from the face of the earth," 
Psalms109:15  
Psalms109:16 because he never once showed love or kindness to others, but persecuted the poor, the brokenhearted, and afflicted ones, even putting them to death!" 
Psalms109:17 Since he enjoyed cursing them, may all his curses now come raining back on him until it all overwhelms him with misfortune! Since he refused to bless others, God, withhold every single blessing from him!" 
Psalms109:18 Bitterness, such vile vindictiveness, was upon everything he did. Cursing was his lifestyle." 
Psalms109:19 So smother him now with his own curses as his just reward. This will be the Lord’s punishment upon him and all my lying accusers who speak evil against me. 
Psalms109:20  
Psalms109:21 But now, O  Yahweh -God, make yourself real to me like you promised me you would. Because of your constant love and your heart-melting kindness, come be my hero and deliver me!" 
Psalms109:22 I’m so broken, needy and hurting. My heart is pierced through and I’m so wounded." 
Psalms109:23 I’m slipping down a dark slope, shaken to the core, and helpless." 
Psalms109:24 All my fasting has left me so weak I can hardly stand. Now I’m shriveled up, nothing but skin and bones." 
Psalms109:25 I’m the example of failure and shame to all who see me. They just walk by me, shaking their heads." 
Psalms109:26 You have to help me, O Lord God! My true hero, come to my rescue and save me, for you are loving and kind." 
Psalms109:27 Then everyone will know that you have won my victory, and they will all say to the Lord, “You have finished it!”" 
Psalms109:28 So let them curse me if they want, but I know you will bless me! All their efforts to destroy me will fail, but I will succeed and be glad." 
Psalms109:29 So let my Satan-like accusers fail! Make them look ridiculous if they try to come against me. Clothe them with a robe of guilty shame from this day on! 
Psalms109:30 But I will give my thanks to you over and over, and everyone will hear my lavish praises." 
Psalms109:31 For you stand right next to the broken ones as their saving hero to rescue them from all their accusers! 
Psalms110:1 Yahweh said to my Lord, the Messiah: “Sit with me as enthroned ruler while I subdue your every enemy. They will bow low before you as I make them a footstool for your feet.”" 
Psalms110:2 Messiah, I know God himself will establish your kingdom as you reign in Zion-glory. For he says to you, “Rule in the midst of your enemies!”" 
Psalms110:3 Your people will be your love offerings. In the day of your mighty power you will be exalted, and in the brightness of your holy ones you will shine as an army arising from the womb of the dawn, anointed with the dew of your youth!" 
Psalms110:4 Yahweh has taken a solemn oath and will never back away from it, saying, “You are a priest for eternity, after the manner of Melchizedek!”" 
Psalms110:5 The Lord stands in full authority to shatter to pieces the kings who stand against you on the day he displays his terrible wrath. 
Psalms110:6 He will judge every rebellious nation, filling their battlefields with corpses, and will shatter the strongholds of ruling powers." 
Psalms110:7 Yet he himself will drink from his inheritance as from a flowing brook; refreshed by love he will stand victorious! 
Psalms111:1 Shout hallelujah to Yahweh! May every one of his devoted lovers hear my passionate praise to him, even among the council of the holy ones." 
Psalms111:2 For God’s mighty miracles astound me! His wonders are so delightfully mysterious that they leave all who seek them astonished. 
Psalms111:3 Everything he does is full of splendor and beauty! Each miracle demonstrates his eternal perfection. 
Psalms111:4 His unforgettable works of surpassing wonder reveal his grace and tender mercy. 
Psalms111:5 He satisfies all who love and trust him, and he keeps every promise he makes." 
Psalms111:6 He reveals mighty power and marvels to his people by handing them nations as a gift. 
Psalms111:7 All God accomplishes is flawless, faithful, and fair, and his every word proves trustworthy and true." 
Psalms111:8 They are steadfast forever and ever, formed from truth and righteousness." 
Psalms111:9 His forever-love paid a full ransom for his people so that now we’re free to come before Yahweh to worship his holy and awesome name! 
Psalms111:10 Where can wisdom be found? It is born in the fear of God. Everyone who follows his ways will never lack his living-understanding. And the adoration of God will abide throughout eternity! 
Psalms112:1 Shout in celebration of praise to the Lord! Everyone who loves the Lord and delights in him will cherish his words and be blessed beyond expectation. 
Psalms112:2 Their descendants will be prosperous and influential. Every generation of the righteous will experience his favor. 
Psalms112:3 Great blessing and wealth fills the house of the wise, for their integrity endures forever." 
Psalms112:4 Even if darkness overtakes them, sunrise-brilliance will come bursting through because they are gracious to others, so tender and true." 
Psalms112:5 Life is good for the one who is generous and charitable, conducting affairs with honesty and truth." 
Psalms112:6 Their circumstances will never shake them and others will never forget their example. 
Psalms112:7 They will not live in fear or dread of what may come, for their hearts are firm, ever secure in their faith." 
Psalms112:8 Steady and strong, they will not be afraid, but will calmly face their every foe until they all go down in defeat." 
Psalms112:9 Never stingy and always generous to those in need, they lived lives of influence and honor that will never be forgotten, for they were full of good deeds." 
Psalms112:10 But the wicked take one look at a life lived like this and they grit their teeth in anger, not understanding their bliss. The wicked slink away speechless in the darkness that falls, where hope dies and all their dreams fade away to nothing, nothing at all!" 
Psalms113:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Go ahead, praise the Lord, all you loving servants of God! Keep it up! Praise him some more!" 
Psalms113:2 For the glorious name of the Lord is blessed forever and ever. 
Psalms113:3 From sunrise-brilliance to sunset-beauty, lift up his praise from dawn to dusk!" 
Psalms113:4 For he rules on high over the nations with a glory that outshines even the heavens. 
Psalms113:5 No one can be compared to God, enthroned on high!" 
Psalms113:6 He stoops down to look upon the sky and the earth. 
Psalms113:7 He promotes the poor, picking them up from the dirt, and rescues the needy from the garbage dump." 
Psalms113:8 He turns paupers into princes and seats them on their royal thrones of honor. 
Psalms113:9 God’s grace provides for the barren ones a joyful home with children so that even childless couples find a family. He makes them happy parents surrounded by their pride and joy. That’s the God we praise, so give it all to him!" 
Psalms114:1 Many years ago the Jewish people escaped Egypt’s tyranny," 
Psalms114:2 so that Israel, God’s people of praise, would become his holy sanctuary, his kingdom on the earth." 
Psalms114:3 The Red Sea waters saw them coming and ran the other way! Then later, the Jordan River too moved aside so that they could all pass through." 
Psalms114:4 The land shuddered with fear. Mountains and hills shook with dread. 
Psalms114:5 O sea, what happened to you to make you flee? O Jordan, what was it that made you turn and run?" 
Psalms114:6 O mountains, what frightened you so? And you hills, what made you shiver?" 
Psalms114:7 Tremble, O earth, for you are in the presence of the Lord, the presence of the God of Jacob." 
Psalms114:8 He splits open boulders and brings up bubbling water. Gushing streams burst forth when he is near! 
Psalms115:1 God, glorify your name! Yes, your name alone be glorified, not ours. For you are the one who loves us passionately, and you are faithful and true." 
Psalms115:2 Why should the unbelievers mock us, saying, “Where is this God of yours?”" 
Psalms115:3 But we know our God rules from the heavens, and he takes delight in all that he does." 
Psalms115:4 The unbelievers worship what they make— their wealth and their work. 
Psalms115:5 They idolize what they own and what they make with their hands, but their things can’t talk to them or answer their prayers. Their possessions will never satisfy. Their futile faith in dead idols and dead works can never bring life or meaning to their souls. Blind men can only create blind things. Those deaf to God can only make a deaf image. Dead men can only create dead idols. And everyone who trusts in these powerless, dead things will be just like what they worship—powerless and dead." 
Psalms115:6  
Psalms115:7  
Psalms115:8  
Psalms115:9 So trust in the Lord, all his people. For he is the only true hero, the wraparound God who is our shield!" 
Psalms115:10 You, his priests, trust in the Lord. For he is the only true hero, God-wrapped-around-us as our shield." 
Psalms115:11 Yes, all his lovers who bow before him, trust in the Lord. For he is our only true hero, God-wrapped-around-us as our shield." 
Psalms115:12 The Lord will never forget us in our need; he will bless us indeed! He will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron, his priest." 
Psalms115:13 Yes! He will bless his devoted lovers who bow before him, no matter who they are." 
Psalms115:14 God himself will fill you with more. Blessings upon blessings will be heaped upon you and upon your children from the maker of heaven and earth, the very God who made you!" 
Psalms115:15  
Psalms115:16 The heavens belong to our God; they are his alone, but he has given us the earth and put us in charge." 
Psalms115:17 Dead people cannot praise the Lord, but we can! Those who sink to the silence of the grave can no longer give glory to God, but we can! So let’s praise the Lord and let it go on forever. Hallelujah, and praise the Lord!" 
Psalms115:18  
Psalms116:1 I am passionately in love with God because he listens to me. He hears my prayers and answers them. 
Psalms116:2 As long as I live I’ll keep praying to him, for he stoops down to listen to my heart’s cry." 
Psalms116:3 Death once stared me in the face, and I was close to slipping into its dark shadows. I was terrified and overcome with sorrow." 
Psalms116:4 I cried out to the Lord, “God, come and save me!”" 
Psalms116:5 He was so kind, so gracious to me. Because of his passion toward me, he made everything right and he restored me." 
Psalms116:6 So I’ve learned from my experience that God protects the vulnerable. For I was broken and brought low, but he answered me and came to my rescue!" 
Psalms116:7 Now I can say to myself and to all, “Relax and rest, be confident and serene, for the Lord rewards fully those who simply trust in him.”" 
Psalms116:8 God has rescued my soul from death’s fear and dried my eyes of many tears. He’s kept my feet firmly on his path 
Psalms116:9 and strengthened me so that I may please him and walk before Yahweh in his fields of life. 
Psalms116:10 Even when it seems I’m surrounded by many liars and my own fears, and though I’m hurting in my suffering and trauma, I still stay faithful to God and speak words of faith." 
Psalms116:11  
Psalms116:12 So now, what can I ever give back to God to repay him for the blessings he’s poured out on me?" 
Psalms116:13 I will lift up his cup of salvation and praise him extravagantly for all that he’s done for me. 
Psalms116:14 I will fulfill the promise I made to God in the presence of his gathered people. 
Psalms116:15 When one of God’s holy lovers dies, it is costly to the Lord, touching his heart." 
Psalms116:16 Lord, because I am your loving servant, you have broken open my life and freed me from my chains." 
Psalms116:17 Now I’ll worship you passionately and bring to you my sacrifice of praise, drenched with thanksgiving!" 
Psalms116:18 I’ll keep my promise to you, God, in the presence of your gathered people, just like I said I would." 
Psalms116:19 I will worship you here in your living presence, in the temple in Jerusalem. I will worship and sing hallelujah, for I praise you, Lord!" 
Psalms117:1 Let everyone everywhere shine with praise to Yahweh! Let it all out! Go ahead and praise him! 
Psalms117:2 For he has conquered us with his great love, and his kindness has melted our hearts. His faithfulness lasts forever, and he will never fail you. So go ahead, let it all out! Praise Yah! O Yah!" 
Psalms118:1 Keep on giving your thanks to God, for he is so good! His constant, tender love lasts forever!" 
Psalms118:2 Let all his princely people sing, “His constant, tender love lasts forever!”" 
Psalms118:3 Let all his holy priests sing, “His constant, tender love lasts forever!”" 
Psalms118:4 Let all his lovers who bow low before him sing, “His constant, tender love lasts forever!”" 
Psalms118:5 Out of my deep anguish and pain I prayed, and God, you helped me as a father. You came to my rescue and broke open the way into a beautiful and broad place." 
Psalms118:6 Now I know, Lord, that you are for me, and I will never fear what man can do to me." 
Psalms118:7 For you stand beside me as my hero who rescues me. I’ve seen with my own eyes the defeat of my enemies. I’ve triumphed over them all! 
Psalms118:8 Lord, it is so much better to trust in you to save me than to put my confidence in someone else." 
Psalms118:9 Yes, it is so much better to trust in the Lord to save me than to put my confidence in celebrities." 
Psalms118:10 Once I was hemmed in and surrounded by those who don’t love you. But by Yahweh ’s supernatural power I overcame them all! 
Psalms118:11 Yes, they surrounded me, like a swarm of killer bees swirling around me. I was trapped like one trapped by a raging fire; I was surrounded with no way out and at the point of collapse. But by Yahweh ’s supernatural power, I overcame them all!" 
Psalms118:12  
Psalms118:13 They pushed me right up to the edge, and I was ready to fall, but you helped me to triumph, and together we overcame them all." 
Psalms118:14 Lord, you are my true strength and my glory-song, my champion, my Savior!" 
Psalms118:15 The joyful songs I now sing will be sung again in the hearts and homes of all your devoted lovers. My loud shouts of victory will echo throughout the land. For Yahweh ’s right hand conquers valiantly! 
Psalms118:16 The right hand of Yahweh exalts! The right hand of Yahweh will never fail. 
Psalms118:17 You will not let them kill me, but I will live to tell the world what the Lord has done for me." 
Psalms118:18 Yes, the Lord punished me as I deserved, but he’ll never give me over to death." 
Psalms118:19 Swing wide, you gates of righteousness, and let me pass through, and I will enter into God’s presence to worship only him." 
Psalms118:20 I have found the gateway to God, the pathway to his presence for all his devoted lovers." 
Psalms118:21 I will offer all my loving praise to you, and I thank you so much for answering my prayer and bringing me salvation!" 
Psalms118:22 The very stone the masons rejected as flawed has turned out to be the most important capstone of the arch, holding up the very house of God." 
Psalms118:23 The Lord himself is the one who has done this, and it’s so amazing, so marvelous to see!" 
Psalms118:24 This is the very day of the Lord that brings gladness and joy, filling our hearts with glee." 
Psalms118:25 O God, please come and save us again; bring us your breakthrough-victory!" 
Psalms118:26 Blessed is this one who comes to us, the sent one of the Lord. And from within the temple we cry, “We bless you!”" 
Psalms118:27 For the Lord our God has brought us his glory-light. I offer him my life in joyous sacrifice. Tied tightly to your altar, I will bring you praise. For you are the God of my life and I lift you high, exalting you to the highest place." 
Psalms118:28  
Psalms118:29 So let’s keep on giving our thanks to God, for he is so good! His constant, tender love lasts forever!" 
Psalms119:1 You’re only truly happy when you walk in total integrity, walking in the light of God’s Word." 
Psalms119:2 What joy overwhelms everyone who keeps the ways of God, those who seek him as their heart’s passion!" 
Psalms119:3 They’ll never do what’s wrong but will always choose the paths of the Lord. 
Psalms119:4 God has prescribed the right way to live: obeying his laws with all our hearts. 
Psalms119:5 How I long for my life to bring you glory as I follow each and every one of your holy precepts! 
Psalms119:6 Then I’ll never be ashamed, for I take strength from all your commandments." 
Psalms119:7 I will give my thanks to you from a heart of love and truth. And every time I learn more of your righteous judgments," 
Psalms119:8 I will be faithful to all that your Word reveals— so don’t ever give up on me! 
Psalms119:9 How can a young man stay pure? Only by living in the Word of God and walking in its truth. 
Psalms119:10 I have longed for you with the passion of my heart; don’t let me stray from your directions! 
Psalms119:11 I consider your Word to be my greatest treasure, and I treasure it in my heart to keep me from committing sin’s treason against you." 
Psalms119:12 My wonderful God, you are to be praised above all; teach me the power of your decrees!" 
Psalms119:13 I speak continually of your laws as I recite out loud your counsel to me. 
Psalms119:14 I find more joy in following what you tell me to do than in chasing after all the wealth of the world. 
Psalms119:15 I set my heart on your precepts and pay close attention to all your ways. 
Psalms119:16 My delight is found in all your laws, and I won’t forget to walk in your words." 
Psalms119:17 Let me, your servant, walk in abundance of life that I may always live to obey your truth." 
Psalms119:18 Open my eyes to see the miracle-wonders hidden in Scripture. 
Psalms119:19 My life on earth is so brief, so tutor me in the ways of your wisdom." 
Psalms119:20 I am continually consumed by these irresistible longings, these cravings to obey your every commandment!" 
Psalms119:21 Your displeasure rests with those who are arrogant, who think they know everything; you rebuke the rebellious who refuse your laws." 
Psalms119:22 Don’t let them mock and scorn me for obeying you. 
Psalms119:23 For even if the princes and my leaders choose to criticize me, I will continue to serve you and walk in your plans for my life." 
Psalms119:24 Your commandments are my counselors; your Word is my light and delight! 
Psalms119:25 Lord, I’m fading away. I’m discouraged and lying in the dust; revive me by your word, just like you promised you would." 
Psalms119:26 I’ve poured out my life before you, and you’ve always been there for me. So now I ask: teach me more of your holy decrees." 
Psalms119:27 Open up my understanding to the ways of your wisdom, and I will meditate deeply on your splendor and your wonders." 
Psalms119:28 My life’s strength melts away with grief and sadness; come strengthen me and encourage me with your words. 
Psalms119:29 Keep me far away from what is false; give me grace to stay true to your laws. 
Psalms119:30 I’ve chosen to obey your truth and walk in the splendor-light of all that you teach me. 
Psalms119:31 Lord, don’t allow me to make a mess of my life, for I cling to your commands and follow them as closely as I can." 
Psalms119:32 I will run after you with delight in my heart, for you will make me obedient to your instructions." 
Psalms119:33 Give me revelation about the meaning of your ways so I can enjoy the reward of following them fully. 
Psalms119:34 Give me an understanding heart so that I can passionately know and obey your truth. 
Psalms119:35 Guide me into the paths that please you, for I take delight in all that you say." 
Psalms119:36 Cause my heart to bow before your words of wisdom and not to the wealth of this world. 
Psalms119:37 Help me turn my eyes away from illusions so that I pursue only that which is true; drench my soul with life as I walk in your paths. 
Psalms119:38 Reassure me of your promises, for I am your beloved, your servant who bows before you." 
Psalms119:39 Defend me from the criticism I face for keeping your beautiful words. 
Psalms119:40 See how I long with cravings for more of your ways? Let your righteousness revive my spirit! 
Psalms119:41 May your tender love overwhelm me, O Lord, for you are my Savior and you keep your promises." 
Psalms119:42 I’ll always have an answer for those who mock me because I trust in your word. 
Psalms119:43 May I never forget your truth, for I rely upon your precepts." 
Psalms119:44 I will observe your laws every moment of the day and will never forget the words you say. 
Psalms119:45 I will walk with you in complete freedom, for I seek to follow your every command." 
Psalms119:46 When I stand before kings, I will tell them the truth and will never be ashamed." 
Psalms119:47 My passion and delight is in your word, for I love what you say to me!" 
Psalms119:48 I long for more revelation of your truth, for I love the light of your word as I meditate on your decrees." 
Psalms119:49 Lord, never forget the promises you’ve made to me, for they are my hope and confidence." 
Psalms119:50 In all of my affliction I find great comfort in your promises, for they have kept me alive!" 
Psalms119:51 No matter how bitterly the proud mockers speak against me, I refuse to budge from your precepts." 
Psalms119:52 Your revelation-light is eternal; I’m encouraged every time I think about your truth! 
Psalms119:53 Whenever I see the wicked breaking your laws, I feel horrible." 
Psalms119:54 As I journey through life, I put all your statutes to music; they become the theme of my joyous songs." 
Psalms119:55 Throughout the night I think of you, dear God; I treasure your every word to me." 
Psalms119:56 All this joy is mine as I follow your ways! 
Psalms119:57 You are my satisfaction, Lord, and all that I need, so I’m determined to do everything you say." 
Psalms119:58 With all my heart I seek your favor; pour out your grace on me as you promised! 
Psalms119:59 When I realize that I’m going astray, I turn back to obey your instructions." 
Psalms119:60 I give my all to follow your revelation-light; I will not delay to obey. 
Psalms119:61 Even when temptations encircle me with evil, I won’t forget for a moment to follow your commands." 
Psalms119:62 In the middle of the night I awake to give thanks to you because of all your revelation-light—so right and true! 
Psalms119:63 Anyone who loves you and bows in obedience to your words will be my friend. 
Psalms119:64 Give me more revelation of your ways, for I see your love and tender care everywhere." 
Psalms119:65 Your extravagant kindness to me makes me want to follow your words even more! 
Psalms119:66 Teach me how to make good decisions, and give me revelation-light, for I believe in your commands." 
Psalms119:67 Before I was humbled I used to always wander astray, but now I see the wisdom of your words." 
Psalms119:68 Everything you do is beautiful, flowing from your goodness; teach me the power of your wonderful words!" 
Psalms119:69 Proud boasters make up lies about me because I am passionate to follow all that you say. 
Psalms119:70 Their hearts are dull and void of feelings, but I find my true treasure in your truth." 
Psalms119:71 The punishment you brought me through was the best thing that could have happened to me, for it taught me your ways." 
Psalms119:72 The words you speak to me are worth more than all the riches and wealth in the whole world! 
Psalms119:73 Your very hands have held me and made me who I am; give me more revelation-light so I may learn to please you more. 
Psalms119:74 May all your devoted lovers see how you treat me and be glad, for your words are entwined with my heart." 
Psalms119:75 Lord, I know that your judgments are always right. Even when it’s me you judge, you’re still faithful and true." 
Psalms119:76 Send your kind mercy-kiss to comfort me, your servant, just like you promised you would." 
Psalms119:77 Love me tenderly so I can go on, for I delight in your life-giving truth." 
Psalms119:78 Shame upon the proud liars! See how they oppress me, all because of my passion for your precepts!" 
Psalms119:79 May all your devoted lovers follow me as I follow the path of your instruction. 
Psalms119:80 Make me passionate and wholehearted to fulfill your every wish, so that I’ll never have to be ashamed of myself." 
Psalms119:81 I’m lovesick with yearnings for more of your salvation, for my heart is entwined with your Word." 
Psalms119:82 I’m consumed with longings for your promises, so I ask, “When will they all come true?”" 
Psalms119:83 My soul feels dry and shriveled, useless and forgotten, but I will never forget your living truth." 
Psalms119:84 How much longer must I wait until you punish my persecutors? For I am your loving servant. 
Psalms119:85 Arrogant men who hate your truth and never obey your laws have laid a trap for my life. 
Psalms119:86 They don’t know that everything you say is true, so they harass me with their lies. Help me, Lord!" 
Psalms119:87 They’ve nearly destroyed my life, but I refuse to yield; I still live according to your Word." 
Psalms119:88 Revive me with your tender love and spare my life by your kindness, and I will continue to obey you." 
Psalms119:89 Standing firm in the heavens and fastened to eternity is the Word of God. 
Psalms119:90 Your faithfulness flows from one generation to the next; all that you created sits firmly in place to testify of you. 
Psalms119:91 By your decree everything stands at attention, for all that you have made serves you." 
Psalms119:92 Because your words are my deepest delight, I didn’t give up when all else was lost." 
Psalms119:93 I can never forget the profound revelations you’ve taught me, for they have kept me alive more than once." 
Psalms119:94 Lord, I’m all yours, and you are my Savior; I have sought to live my life pleasing to you." 
Psalms119:95 Even though evil men wait in ambush to kill me, I will set my heart before you to understand more of your ways." 
Psalms119:96 I’ve learned that there is nothing perfect in this imperfect world except your words, for they bring such fantastic freedom into my life!" 
Psalms119:97 O how I love and treasure your law; throughout the day I fill my heart with its light! 
Psalms119:98 By considering your commands I have an edge over my enemies, for I take seriously everything you say." 
Psalms119:99 You have given me more understanding than those who teach me, for I’ve absorbed your eye-opening revelation." 
Psalms119:100 You have graced me with more insight than the old sages because I have not failed to walk in the light of your ways. 
Psalms119:101 I refused to bend my morals when temptation was before me so that I could become obedient to your Word. 
Psalms119:102 I refuse to turn away from difficult truths, for you yourself have taught me to love your words." 
Psalms119:103 How sweet are your living promises to me; sweeter than honey is your revelation-light. 
Psalms119:104 For your truth is the source of my understanding, not the falsehoods of those who don’t know you, which I despise." 
Psalms119:105 Truth’s shining light guides me in my choices and decisions; the revelation of your Word makes my pathway clear. 
Psalms119:106 To live my life by your righteous rules has been my holy and lifelong commitment. 
Psalms119:107 I’m bruised and broken, overwhelmed by it all; breathe life into me again by your living word." 
Psalms119:108 Lord, receive my grateful thanks and teach me more of how to please you." 
Psalms119:109 Even though my life hangs in the balance, I’ll keep following what you’ve taught me, no matter what." 
Psalms119:110 The ungodly have done their best to throw me off track, but I’ll not deviate from what you’ve told me to do." 
Psalms119:111 Everything you speak to me is like joyous treasure, filling my life with gladness." 
Psalms119:112 I have determined in my heart to obey whatever you say, fully and forever!" 
Psalms119:113 I despise those who can’t keep commitments, for I passionately love your revelation-light!" 
Psalms119:114 You’re my place of quiet retreat, and your wraparound presence becomes my shield as I wrap myself in your Word!" 
Psalms119:115 Go away! Leave me, all you workers of wickedness, for you can’t stop me from following every command of my God." 
Psalms119:116 Lord, strengthen my inner being by the promises of your Word so that I may live faithful and unashamed for you." 
Psalms119:117 Lift me up and I will be safe. Empower me to live every moment in the light of your ways. 
Psalms119:118 Lord, you reject those who reject your laws, for they fool no one but themselves!" 
Psalms119:119 The wicked are thrown away, discarded and valueless. That’s why I will keep loving all of your laws!" 
Psalms119:120 My body trembles in holy awe of you, leaving me speechless, for I’m frightened of your righteous judgments." 
Psalms119:121 Don’t leave me to the mercies of those who hate me, for I live to do what is just and fair." 
Psalms119:122 Let me hear your promise of blessing over my life, breaking me free from the proud oppressors." 
Psalms119:123 As a lovesick lover, I yearn for more of your salvation and for your virtuous promises." 
Psalms119:124 Let me feel your tender love, for I am yours. Give me more understanding of your wonderful ways." 
Psalms119:125 I need more revelation from your Word to know more about you, for I’m in love with you!" 
Psalms119:126 Lord, the time has come for you to break through, for evil men keep breaking your laws." 
Psalms119:127 Truly, your message of truth means more to me than a vault filled with the purest gold." 
Psalms119:128 Every word you speak, every truth revealed, is always right and beautiful to me, for I hate what is phony or false." 
Psalms119:129 Your marvelous words are living miracles; no wonder I long to obey everything you say. 
Psalms119:130 Break open your Word within me until revelation-light shines out! Those with open hearts are given insight into your plans. 
Psalms119:131 I open my mouth and inhale the Word of God because I crave the revelation of your commands. 
Psalms119:132 Turn your heart to me, Lord, and show me your grace like you do to every one of your godly lovers." 
Psalms119:133 Prepare before me a path filled with your promises, and don’t allow even one sin to have dominion over me." 
Psalms119:134 Rescue me from the oppression of ungodly men so that I can keep all your precepts. 
Psalms119:135 Smile on me, your loving servant. Instruct me in what is right in your eyes." 
Psalms119:136 When I witness the rebellious breaking your laws, it makes me weep uncontrollably!" 
Psalms119:137 Lord, your judgments reveal your righteousness, and your verdicts are always fair." 
Psalms119:138 The motive behind your every word is pure, and your teachings are remarkably faithful and true." 
Psalms119:139 I’ve been consumed with a furious passion to do what’s right, all because of the way my enemies disrespect your laws." 
Psalms119:140 All your promises glow with fire; that’s why I’m a lover of your Word. 
Psalms119:141 Even though I’m considered insignificant and despised by the world, I’ll never abandon your ways." 
Psalms119:142 Your righteousness has no end; it is everlasting, and your rules are perfectly fair." 
Psalms119:143 Even though my troubles overwhelm me with anguish, I still delight and cherish every message you speak to me." 
Psalms119:144 Give me more revelation so that I can live for you, for nothing is more pure and eternal than your truth." 
Psalms119:145 Answer my passionate prayer, O Lord, and I’ll obey everything you say." 
Psalms119:146 Save me, God, and I’ll follow your every instruction." 
Psalms119:147 Before the day dawns, I’ll be crying out for help and wrapping your words into my life." 
Psalms119:148 I lie awake every night pondering your promises to me. 
Psalms119:149 Lord, listen to my heart’s cry, for I know your love is real for me; breathe life into me again by the revelation of your justice." 
Psalms119:150 Here they come—these lawless rebels are coming near, but they are all so far away from your laws." 
Psalms119:151 God, you are near me always, so close to me; every one of your commands reveals truth." 
Psalms119:152 I’ve known all along how true and unchanging is every word you speak, established forever!" 
Psalms119:153 Look upon all my misery and come be my hero to rescue me, for I will never forget what you’ve revealed to me." 
Psalms119:154 Take my side and defend me in these sufferings; redeem me and revive me, just like you promised you would." 
Psalms119:155 The wicked are so far from salvation, for they could not care less about your message of truth." 
Psalms119:156 Your tender mercies are what I need, O God; give me back my life again through the revelation of your judgments." 
Psalms119:157 I have so many enemies who persecute me, yet I won’t swerve from following your ways." 
Psalms119:158 I grieve when I see how the faithless ones live, for they just walk away from your promises." 
Psalms119:159 Lord, see how much I truly love your instructions. So in your tender kindness, breathe life into me again." 
Psalms119:160 The sum total of all your words adds up to absolute truth, and every one of your righteous decrees is everlasting." 
Psalms119:161 The powerful elite have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart trembles in awe because of your miracle-words." 
Psalms119:162 Your promises are the source of my bubbling joy; the revelation of your Word thrills me like one who has discovered hidden treasure. 
Psalms119:163 I despise every lie and hate every falsehood, for I am passionate about keeping your precepts." 
Psalms119:164 I stop to praise you seven times a day, all because your ways are perfect!" 
Psalms119:165 There is such a great peace and well-being that comes to the lovers of your Word, and they will never be offended." 
Psalms119:166 Lord, I’m longing for more of your salvation, for I want to do what pleases you." 
Psalms119:167 My love for your ways is indescribable; in my innermost being I want to follow them perfectly! 
Psalms119:168 I will keep your instructions and follow your counsel; all my ways are an open book before you. 
Psalms119:169 Lord, listen to my prayer. It’s like a sacrifice I bring to you; I must have more revelation of your Word!" 
Psalms119:170 Take my words to heart when I ask you, Lord; rescue me, just like you promised!" 
Psalms119:171 I offer you my joyous praise for all that you’ve taught me. 
Psalms119:172 Your wonderful words will become my song of worship, for everything you’ve commanded is perfect and true." 
Psalms119:173 Place your hands of strength and favor upon me, for I’ve made my choice to follow your ways." 
Psalms119:174 I wait for your deliverance, O Lord, for your words thrill me like nothing else!" 
Psalms119:175 Invigorate my life so that I can praise you even more, and may your truth be my strength!" 
Psalms119:176 I’ll never forget what you’ve taught me, Lord, but when I wander off and lose my way, come after me, for I am your beloved!" 
Psalms120:1 I was desperate for you to help me in my struggles, and you did!" 
Psalms120:2 So come and deliver me now from this treachery and false accusation. 
Psalms120:3 O lying deceivers, don’t you know what is your fate?" 
Psalms120:4 You will be pierced through with condemnation and consumed with burning coals of fire! 
Psalms120:5 Why am I doomed to live as an alien, scattered among these cruel savages? Am I destined to dwell in the darkened tents of desert nomads?" 
Psalms120:6 For too long I’ve had to live among those who hate peace. 
Psalms120:7 I speak words of peace while they speak words of war, but they refuse to listen." 
Psalms121:1 I look up to the mountains and hills, longing for God’s help. But then I realize that our true help and protection is only from the Lord, our Creator who made the heavens and the earth." 
Psalms121:2  
Psalms121:3 He will guard and guide me, never letting me stumble or fall. God is my keeper; he will never forget nor ignore me." 
Psalms121:4 He will never slumber nor sleep; he is the Guardian-God for his people, Israel." 
Psalms121:5 Yahweh himself will watch over you; he’s always at your side to shelter you safely in his presence. 
Psalms121:6 He’s protecting you from all danger both day and night. 
Psalms121:7 He will keep you from every form of evil or calamity as he continuously watches over you. 
Psalms121:8 You will be guarded by God himself. You will be safe when you leave your home, and safely you will return. He will protect you now, and he’ll protect you forevermore!" 
Psalms122:1 I was overjoyed when they said, “Let’s go up to the house of the Lord.”" 
Psalms122:2 And now at last we stand here, inside the very gates of Jerusalem!" 
Psalms122:3 O Jerusalem, you were built as a city of praise, where God and man mingle together." 
Psalms122:4 This is where all the tribes of Yahweh are required to come and worship him. 
Psalms122:5 This is where the thrones of kings have been established to rule in righteousness; even King David ruled from here. 
Psalms122:6 Pray and seek for Jerusalem’s peace, for all who love her will prosper!" 
Psalms122:7 O Jerusalem, may there be peace for those who dwell inside your walls and prosperity in your every palace." 
Psalms122:8 I intercede for the sake of my family and friends who dwell there, that they may all live in peace." 
Psalms122:9 For the sake of your house, Yahweh our God, I will seek the welfare and prosperity of Jerusalem." 
Psalms123:1 O God-Enthroned in heaven, I lift my eyes toward you in worship." 
Psalms123:2 The way I love you is like the way a servant wants to please his master, the way a maid waits for the orders of her mistress. We look to you, our God, with passionate longing to please you and discover more of your mercy and grace." 
Psalms123:3 For we’ve had more than our fill of this scoffing and scorn— this mistreatment by the wealthy elite. Lord, show us your mercy! Lord, show us your grace!" 
Psalms123:4  
Psalms124:1 What if God had not been on our side? Let all Israel admit this! 
Psalms124:2 What if God had not been there for us? Our enemies, in their violent anger, would have swallowed us up alive!" 
Psalms124:3  
Psalms124:4 The nations, with their flood of rage, would have swept us away, and we would have drowned and perished beneath their torrent of terror!" 
Psalms124:5  
Psalms124:6 We can praise God over and over that he never left us! God wouldn’t allow the terror of our enemies to defeat us. 
Psalms124:7 We are free from the hunter’s trap; their snare is broken and we have escaped! 
Psalms124:8 For the same God who made everything, our Creator and our mighty maker, he himself is our helper and defender!" 
Psalms125:1 Those who trust in the Lord are as unshakable, as unmovable as mighty Mount Zion!" 
Psalms125:2 Just as the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord’s wraparound presence surrounds his people, protecting them now and forever." 
Psalms125:3 The wicked will not always rule over the godly, provoking them to do what is evil." 
Psalms125:4 God, let your goodness be given away to your good people, to all your righteous ones!" 
Psalms125:5 But those who turn away from truth— them you will turn away from you, to follow their crooked ways. You will give them just what they deserve. May Israel experience peace and prosperity!" 
Psalms126:1 It was like a dream come true when you freed us from our bondage and brought us back to Zion! 
Psalms126:2 We laughed and laughed and overflowed with gladness. We were left shouting for joy and singing your praise. All the nations saw it and joined in, saying, “The Lord has done great miracles for them!”" 
Psalms126:3 Yes, he did mighty miracles and we are overjoyed!" 
Psalms126:4 Now, Lord, do it again! Restore us to our former glory! May streams of your refreshing flow over us until our dry hearts are drenched again." 
Psalms126:5 Those who sow their tears as seeds will reap a harvest with joyful shouts of glee. 
Psalms126:6 They may weep as they go out carrying their seed to sow, but they will return with joyful laughter and shouting with gladness as they bring back armloads of blessing and a harvest overflowing!" 
Psalms127:1 If God’s grace doesn’t help the builders, they will labor in vain to build a house. If God’s mercy doesn’t protect the city, all the sentries will circle it in vain." 
Psalms127:2 It really is senseless to work so hard from early morning till late at night, toiling to make a living for fear of not having enough. God can provide for his devoted lovers even while they sleep!" 
Psalms127:3 Children are God’s love-gift; they are heaven’s generous reward. 
Psalms127:4 Children born to a young couple will one day rise to protect and provide for their parents. 
Psalms127:5 Happy will be the couple who has many of them! A household full of children will not bring shame on your name but victory when you face your enemies, for your offspring will have influence and honor to prevail on your behalf!" 
Psalms128:1 How joyous are those who love the Lord and bow low before God, ready to obey him!" 
Psalms128:2 Your reward will be prosperity, happiness, and well-being." 
Psalms128:3 Your wife will bless your heart and home. Your children will bring you joy as they gather around your table. 
Psalms128:4 Yes, this is God’s generous reward for those who love him." 
Psalms128:5 May the Lord bless you out of his Zion-glory! May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem throughout your lifetime. 
Psalms128:6 And may you be surrounded by your grandchildren. Happiness to you! And happiness to Israel! 
Psalms129:1 Let all Israel admit it. From our very beginning we have been persecuted by the nations. 
Psalms129:2 And from our very beginning we have faced never-ending discrimination. Nevertheless, our enemies have not defeated us. We’re still here!" 
Psalms129:3 They have hurt us more than can be expressed, ripping us to shreds, cutting deeply into our souls." 
Psalms129:4 But no matter what, the Lord is good to us. He is a righteous God who stood to defend us, breaking the chains of the evil ones that bound us." 
Psalms129:5 May all who hate the Jews fall back in disgrace to a shameful defeat! 
Psalms129:6 Let them be like grass planted in shallow soil that soon withers with no sustenance. 
Psalms129:7 Let them be like weeds ignored by the reaper and worthless to the harvester. 
Psalms129:8 Let no one who sees them say, “May the blessings of Yahweh be upon your life. May the Lord bless you.”" 
Psalms130:1 Lord, I cry out to you out of the depths of my despair!" 
Psalms130:2 Hear my voice, O God! Answer this prayer and hear my plea for mercy." 
Psalms130:3 Lord, if you measured us and marked us with our sins, who would ever have their prayers answered?" 
Psalms130:4 But your forgiving love is what makes you so wonderful. No wonder you are loved and worshiped! 
Psalms130:5 This is why I wait upon you, expecting your breakthrough, for your Word brings me hope." 
Psalms130:6 I long for you more than any watchman would long for the morning light. I will watch and wait for you, O God, throughout the night." 
Psalms130:7 O Israel, keep hoping, keep trusting, and keep waiting on the Lord, for he is tenderhearted, kind, and forgiving. He has a thousand ways to set you free!" 
Psalms130:8 He himself will redeem you; he will ransom you from the cruel slavery of your sins! 
Psalms131:1 Lord, my heart is meek before you. I don’t consider myself better than others. I’m content to not pursue matters that are over my head— such as your complex mysteries and wonders— that I’m not yet ready to understand." 
Psalms131:2 I am humbled and quieted in your presence. Like a contented child who rests on its mother’s lap, I’m your resting child and my soul is content in you." 
Psalms131:3 O people of God, your time has come to quietly trust, waiting upon the Lord now and forever." 
Psalms132:1 Lord, please don’t forget all the hardships David had to pass through." 
Psalms132:2 And how he promised you, Jacob’s mighty God, saying," 
Psalms132:3 “I will not cross the threshold of my own home to sleep in my own bed. 
Psalms132:4 I will not sleep or slumber, nor even take time to close my eyes in rest," 
Psalms132:5 until I find a place for you to dwell, O mighty God of Jacob. I devote myself to finding a resting place for you!”" 
Psalms132:6 First we heard that the ark was at Bethlehem. Then we found it in the forest of Kiriath-Jearim. 
Psalms132:7 Let’s go into God’s dwelling place and bow down and worship before him. 
Psalms132:8 Arise, O Lord, and enter your resting place, both you and the ark of your glorious strength!" 
Psalms132:9 May your priests wear the robes of righteousness, and let all your godly lovers sing for joy!" 
Psalms132:10 Don’t forsake your anointed king now, but honor your servant David." 
Psalms132:11 For you gave your word and promised David in an unbreakable oath that one of his sons would be sitting on the throne to succeed him as king. 
Psalms132:12 You also promised that if David’s sons would be faithful to keep their promise to follow you, obeying the words you spoke to them, then David’s dynasty would never end." 
Psalms132:13 Lord, you have chosen Zion as your dwelling place, for your pleasure is fulfilled in making it your home." 
Psalms132:14 I hear you say, “I will make this place my eternal dwelling, for I have loved and desired it as my very own!" 
Psalms132:15 I will make Zion prosper and satisfy her poor with my provision. 
Psalms132:16 I will cover my priests with salvation’s power, and all my righteous ones will shout for joy!" 
Psalms132:17 I will increase the anointing that was upon David, and my glistening glory will rest upon my anointed one." 
Psalms132:18 I will clothe his enemies with shame, but holiness will bloom on my anointed one.”" 
Psalms133:1 How truly wonderful and delightful it is to see brothers and sisters living together in sweet unity! 
Psalms133:2 It’s as precious as the sacred scented oil flowing from the head of the high priest Aaron, dripping down upon his beard and running all the way down to the hem of his priestly robes." 
Psalms133:3 This harmony can be compared to the dew dripping from Mount Hermon, which flows down upon the hills of Zion. Indeed, that is where Yahweh has decreed his blessings will be found, the promise of life forevermore!" 
Psalms134:1 All his loving priests who serve and sing, come and sing your song of blessing to God. Come and stand before him in the house of God throughout the night watch," 
Psalms134:2 lifting up your hands in holy worship; come and bless the Lord! 
Psalms134:3 May the Lord, whom you worship, the mighty maker of heaven and earth, bless you from Zion’s glory!" 
Psalms135:1 Shout hallelujah and praise the greatness of God! All his righteous ones, praise him!" 
Psalms135:2 All you worshiping priests on duty in the temple," 
Psalms135:3 praise him, for he is beautiful! Sing loving praises to his lovely name." 
Psalms135:4 For Yahweh has chosen Jacob for his own purpose, and Israel is his special treasure." 
Psalms135:5 Next to every other god, the greatness of our God is unequaled. For our God is incomparable!" 
Psalms135:6 He does what he pleases with unlimited power and authority, extending his greatness throughout the entire universe!" 
Psalms135:7 He forms the misty clouds and creates thunder and lightning, bringing the wind and rain out of his heavenly storehouse." 
Psalms135:8 He struck down the eldest child in each Egyptian home; both man and beast perished that night. 
Psalms135:9 He did great miracles—mighty signs and wonders throughout the land before Pharaoh and all his subjects. 
Psalms135:10 He conquered many nations and killed their mighty kings," 
Psalms135:11 like Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and kings from every kingdom in Canaan." 
Psalms135:12 He gave their land to Israel as an inheritance for his people. 
Psalms135:13 O  Yahweh, your name endures forever! Your fame is known in every generation." 
Psalms135:14 For you will vindicate your persecuted people, showing your tender love to all your servants." 
Psalms135:15 The unbelieving nations worship what they make. They worship their wealth and their work. They idolize what they own and what they do. 
Psalms135:16 Their possessions will never satisfy. Their lifeless and futile works cannot bring life to them! Their things can’t talk to them or answer their prayers. Blind men can only create blind things. Those deaf to God can only make a deaf image. Dead men can only create dead idols. And everyone who trusts in these powerless, dead things will be just like what they worship—powerless and dead!" 
Psalms135:17  
Psalms135:18  
Psalms135:19 Praise Lord Yahweh, all the families of Israel! Praise Lord Yahweh, you family of Aaron!" 
Psalms135:20 Let all the priests bless Lord Yahweh! Let all his lovers who bow low before him praise the Lord Yahweh! 
Psalms135:21 So bless the Lord Yahweh who lives in Jerusalem and dwells in Zion’s glory! Hallelujah and praise the Lord! 
Psalms136:1 Let everyone thank God, for he is good, and he is easy to please! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:2 Give thanks to God, our King over all gods! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:3 Give thanks to the Lord over all lords! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:4 Give thanks to the only miracle-working God! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:5 Give thanks to the Creator who made the heavens with wisdom! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:6 To him who formed dry ground, raising it up from the sea! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:7 Praise the one who created every heavenly light! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:8 He set the sun in the sky to rule over day! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:9 Praise him who set in place the moon and stars to rule over the night! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:10 Give thanks to God, who struck down the firstborn in Egypt! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:11 He brought his people out of Egypt with miracles! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:12 With his mighty power he brought them out! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:13 He split open the Red Sea for them! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:14 And led his people right through the middle! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:15 He vanquished Pharaoh’s armies, drowning them all! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:16 He led his people through the wilderness! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:17 He’s the one who smashed mighty kingdoms! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:18 He triumphed over powerful kings who stood in his way! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:19 He conquered Sihon, king of the Amorites! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:20 He conquered the giant named Og, king of Bashan! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:21 Then he gave away their lands as an inheritance! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:22 For he handed it all over to Israel, his beloved! His tender love for us continues on forever!" 
Psalms136:23 He’s the God who chose us when we were nothing! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:24 He has rescued us from the power of our enemies! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:25 He provides food for hungry men and animals! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms136:26 Give thanks to the great God of the heavens! His tender love for us continues on forever! 
Psalms137:1 Along the banks of Babylon’s rivers we sat as exiles, mourning our captivity, and wept with great love for Zion." 
Psalms137:2 Our music and mirth were no longer heard, only sadness. We hung up our harps on the willow trees." 
Psalms137:3 Our captors tormented us, saying, “Make music for us and sing one of your happy Zion-songs!”" 
Psalms137:4 But how could we sing the song of the Lord in this foreign wilderness? 
Psalms137:5 May my hands never make music again if I ever forget you, O Jerusalem." 
Psalms137:6 May I never be able to sing again if I fail to honor Jerusalem supremely! 
Psalms137:7 And Lord, may you never forget what the sons of Edom did to us, saying, “Let’s raze the city of Jerusalem and burn it to the ground!”" 
Psalms137:8 Listen, O Babylon, you evil destroyer! The one who destroys you will be rewarded above all others. You will be repaid for what you’ve done to us." 
Psalms137:9 Great honor will come to those who destroy you and your future, by smashing your infants against the rubble of your own destruction." 
Psalms138:1 I thank you, Lord, and with all the passion of my heart I worship you in the presence of angels! Heaven’s mighty ones will hear my voice as I sing my loving praise to you." 
Psalms138:2 I bow down before your divine presence and bring you my deepest worship as I experience your tender love and your living truth. For your Word and the fame of your name have been magnified above all else! 
Psalms138:3 At the very moment I called out to you, you answered me! You strengthened me deep within my soul and breathed fresh courage into me." 
Psalms138:4 One day all the kings of the earth will rise to give you thanks when they hear the living words that I have heard you speak. 
Psalms138:5 They too will sing of your wonderful ways, for your ineffable glory is great!" 
Psalms138:6 For though you are lofty and exalted, you stoop to embrace the lowly. Yet you keep your distance from those filled with pride." 
Psalms138:7 By your mighty power I can walk through any devastation, and you will keep me alive, reviving me. Your power set me free from the hatred of my enemies." 
Psalms138:8 You keep every promise you’ve ever made to me! Since your love for me is constant and endless, I ask you, Lord, to finish every good thing that you’ve begun in me!" 
Psalms139:1 Lord, you know everything there is to know about me." 
Psalms139:2 You perceive every movement of my heart and soul, and you understand my every thought before it even enters my mind." 
Psalms139:3 You are so intimately aware of me, Lord. You read my heart like an open book and you know all the words I’m about to speak before I even start a sentence! You know every step I will take before my journey even begins." 
Psalms139:4  
Psalms139:5 You’ve gone into my future to prepare the way, and in kindness you follow behind me to spare me from the harm of my past. You have laid your hand on me!" 
Psalms139:6 This is just too wonderful, deep, and incomprehensible! Your understanding of me brings me wonder and strength." 
Psalms139:7 Where could I go from your Spirit? Where could I run and hide from your face? 
Psalms139:8 If I go up to heaven, you’re there! If I go down to the realm of the dead, you’re there too!" 
Psalms139:9 If I fly with wings into the shining dawn, you’re there! If I fly into the radiant sunset, you’re there waiting!" 
Psalms139:10 Wherever I go, your hand will guide me; your strength will empower me." 
Psalms139:11 It’s impossible to disappear from you or to ask the darkness to hide me, for your presence is everywhere, bringing light into my night." 
Psalms139:12 There is no such thing as darkness with you. The night, to you, is as bright as the day; there’s no difference between the two." 
Psalms139:13 You formed my innermost being, shaping my delicate inside and my intricate outside, and wove them all together in my mother’s womb." 
Psalms139:14 I thank you, God, for making me so mysteriously complex! Everything you do is marvelously breathtaking. It simply amazes me to think about it! How thoroughly you know me, Lord!" 
Psalms139:15 You even formed every bone in my body when you created me in the secret place; carefully, skillfully you shaped me from nothing to something." 
Psalms139:16 You saw who you created me to be before I became me! Before I’d ever seen the light of day, the number of days you planned for me were already recorded in your book." 
Psalms139:17 Every single moment you are thinking of me! How precious and wonderful to consider that you cherish me constantly in your every thought! O God, your desires toward me are more than the grains of sand on every shore! When I awake each morning, you’re still with me." 
Psalms139:18  
Psalms139:19 O God, come and slay these bloodthirsty, murderous men! For I cry out, “Depart from me, you wicked ones!”" 
Psalms139:20 See how they blaspheme your sacred name and lift up themselves against you, but all in vain!" 
Psalms139:21 Lord, can’t you see how I despise those who despise you? For I grieve when I see them rise up against you." 
Psalms139:22 I have nothing but complete hatred and disgust for them. Your enemies shall be my enemies! 
Psalms139:23 God, I invite your searching gaze into my heart. Examine me through and through; find out everything that may be hidden within me. Put me to the test and sift through all my anxious cares." 
Psalms139:24 See if there is any path of pain I’m walking on, and lead me back to your glorious, everlasting way— the path that brings me back to you." 
Psalms140:1 Lord, protect me from this evil one! Rescue me from these violent schemes!" 
Psalms140:2 He concocts his secret strategy to divide and harm others, stirring up trouble one against another." 
Psalms140:3 They are known for their sharp rhetoric of poisonous, hateful words." 
Psalms140:4 Keep me safe, Lord, out of reach from these wicked and violent men, and guard me, God, for they have plotted an evil scheme to ruin me and bring me down." 
Psalms140:5 They are proud and insolent; they’ve set an ambush for me in secret. They are determined to snare me in their net like captured prey. 
Psalms140:6 O Lord, you are my God and my saving strength! My Hero-God, you wrap yourself around me to protect me. For I’m surrounded by your presence in my day of battle. Lord Yahweh, hear my cry. May my voice move your heart to show me mercy." 
Psalms140:7  
Psalms140:8 Don’t let the wicked triumph over me, but bring down their every strategy to subdue me or they will become even more arrogant!" 
Psalms140:9 Those who surround me are nothing but proud troublemakers. May they drink the poison of their own poisonous words. 
Psalms140:10 May their slanderous lives never prosper! Let evil itself hunt them down and pursue them relentlessly until they are thrown into fiery pits from which they will never get out! Let burning coals of hellfire fall upon their heads! 
Psalms140:11  
Psalms140:12 For I know, Lord, that you will be the hero of all those they persecute, and you will secure justice for the poor." 
Psalms140:13 Your godly ones will thank you no matter what happens. For they choose and cherish your presence above everything else! 
Psalms141:1 Please, Lord, come close and come quickly to help me! Listen to my prayer as I call out to you." 
Psalms141:2 Let my prayer be as the evening sacrifice that burns like fragrant incense, rising as my offering to you as I lift up my hands in surrendered worship!" 
Psalms141:3 God, give me grace to guard my lips from speaking what is wrong." 
Psalms141:4 Guide me away from temptation and doing evil. Save me from sinful habits and from keeping company with those who are experts in evil. Help me not to share in their sin in any way! 
Psalms141:5 When one of your godly ones corrects me or one of your faithful ones rebukes me, I will accept it like an honor I cannot refuse. It will be as healing medicine that I swallow without an offended heart. Even if they are mistaken, I will continue to pray." 
Psalms141:6 When the leaders and judges are condemned, falling upon the rocks of justice, then they’ll know my words to them were true!" 
Psalms141:7 Like an earthquake splits open the earth, so the world of hell will open its mouth to swallow their scattered bones." 
Psalms141:8 But you are my Lord and my God; I only have eyes for you! I hide myself in you, so don’t leave me defenseless." 
Psalms141:9 Protect me! Keep me from the traps of wickedness they set for me. 
Psalms141:10 Let them all stumble into their own traps while I escape without a scratch! 
Psalms142:1 God, I’m crying out to you! I lift up my voice boldly to beg for your mercy." 
Psalms142:2 I spill out my heart to you and tell you all my troubles. 
Psalms142:3 For when I was desperate, overwhelmed, and about to give up, you were the only one there to help. You gave me a way of escape from the hidden traps of my enemies." 
Psalms142:4 I look to my left and right to see if there is anyone who will help, but there’s no one who takes notice of me. I have no hope of escape, and no one cares whether I live or die." 
Psalms142:5 So I cried out to you, Lord, my only hiding place. You’re all I have, my only hope in this life, my last chance for help." 
Psalms142:6 Please listen to my heart’s cry, for I am low and in desperate need of you! Rescue me from all those who persecute me, for I am no match for them." 
Psalms142:7 Bring me out of this dungeon so I can declare your praise! And all the righteous will celebrate all the wonderful things you’ve done for me! 
Psalms143:1 Lord, you must hear my prayer, for you are faithful to your promises. Answer my cry, O righteous God!" 
Psalms143:2 Don’t bring me into your courtroom for judgment, for there is no one who is righteous before you." 
Psalms143:3 My enemies have chased and caught me and crushed my life into dust. Now I’m living in the darkness of death’s shadow. 
Psalms143:4 My inner being is in depression and my heart is heavy, dazed with despair." 
Psalms143:5 I remember the glorious miracles of days gone by, and I often think of all the wonders of old." 
Psalms143:6 Now I’m reaching out to you, thirsting for you like the dry, cracked ground thirsts for rain." 
Psalms143:7 Lord, come quickly and answer me, for my depression deepens and I’m about to give up. Don’t leave me now or I’ll die!" 
Psalms143:8 Let the dawning day bring me revelation of your tender, unfailing love. Give me light for my path and teach me, for I trust in you." 
Psalms143:9 Save me from all my enemies, for I hide myself in you." 
Psalms143:10 I just want to obey all you ask of me. So teach me, Lord, for you are my God. Your gracious Spirit is all I need, so lead me on good paths that are pleasing to you, my one and only God!" 
Psalms143:11 Lord, if you rescue me, it will bring you more glory, for you are true to your promises. Bring me out of these troubles!" 
Psalms143:12 Since I am your loving servant, destroy all those who are trying to harm me. And because you are so loving and kind to me, silence all of my enemies!" 
Psalms144:1 There is only one strong, safe, and secure place for me; it’s in God alone who gives me strength for the battle." 
Psalms144:2 He’s my shelter of love and my fortress of faith, who wraps himself around me as a secure shield. I hide myself in this one who subdues enemies before me." 
Psalms144:3 Lord, what is it about us that you would even notice us? Why do you even bother with us?" 
Psalms144:4 For man is nothing but a faint whisper, a mere breath. We spend our days like nothing more than a passing shadow." 
Psalms144:5 Step down from heaven, Lord, and come down! Make the mountains melt at your touch." 
Psalms144:6 Loose your fiery lightning flashes and scatter your enemies. Overthrow them with your terrifying judgments. 
Psalms144:7 Reach down from your heavens and rescue me from this hell and deliver me from these dark powers. 
Psalms144:8 They speak nothing but lies; their words are pure deceit. Nothing they say can ever be trusted. 
Psalms144:9 My God, I will sing you a brand-new song! The harp inside my heart will make music to you!" 
Psalms144:10 I will sing of you, the one who gives victory to kings— the one who rescues David, your loving servant, from the fatal sword." 
Psalms144:11 Deliver me and save me from these dark powers who speak nothing but lies. Their words are pure deceit, and you can’t trust anything they say." 
Psalms144:12 Deliver us! Then our homes will be happy. Our sons will grow up as strong, sturdy men and our daughters with graceful beauty, royally fashioned as for a palace." 
Psalms144:13 Our barns will be filled to the brim, overflowing with the fruits of our harvest. Our fields will be full of sheep and cattle, too many to count, and our livestock will not miscarry their young. Our enemies will not invade our land, and there’ll be no breach in our walls." 
Psalms144:14  
Psalms144:15 What bliss we experience when these blessings fall! The people who love and serve our God will be happy indeed! 
Psalms145:1 My heart explodes with praise to you! Now and forever my heart bows in worship to you, my King and my God!" 
Psalms145:2 Every day I will lift up my praise to your name with praises that will last throughout eternity. 
Psalms145:3 Lord, you are great and worthy of the highest praise! For there is no end to the discovery of the greatness that surrounds you." 
Psalms145:4 Generation after generation will declare more of your greatness and declare more of your glory. 
Psalms145:5 Your magnificent splendor and the miracles of your majesty are my constant meditation. 
Psalms145:6 Your awe-inspiring acts of power have everyone talking! I’m telling people everywhere about your excellent greatness! 
Psalms145:7 Our hearts bubble over as we celebrate the fame of your marvelous beauty, bringing bliss to our hearts. We shout with ecstatic joy over your breakthrough for us." 
Psalms145:8 You’re kind and tenderhearted to those who don’t deserve it and very patient with people who fail you. Your love is like a flooding river overflowing its banks with kindness. 
Psalms145:9 God, everyone sees your goodness, for your tender love is blended into everything you do." 
Psalms145:10 Everything you have made will praise you, fulfilling its purpose. And all your godly ones will be found bowing before you." 
Psalms145:11 They will tell the world of the lavish splendor of your kingdom and preach about your limitless power. 
Psalms145:12 They will demonstrate for all to see your miracles of might and reveal the glorious majesty of your kingdom. 
Psalms145:13 You are the Lord who reigns over your never-ending kingdom through all the ages of time and eternity! You are faithful to fulfill every promise you’ve made. You manifest yourself as kindness in all you do. 
Psalms145:14 Weak and feeble ones you will sustain. Those bent over with burdens of shame you will lift up. 
Psalms145:15 You have captured our attention and the eyes of all look to you. You give what they hunger for at just the right time. 
Psalms145:16 When you open your generous hand, it’s full of blessings, satisfying the longings of every living thing." 
Psalms145:17 You are fair and righteous in everything you do, and your love is wrapped into all your works." 
Psalms145:18 You draw near to those who call out to you, listening closely, especially when their hearts are true." 
Psalms145:19 Every godly one receives even more than what they ask for. For you hear what their hearts really long for, and you bring them your saving strength." 
Psalms145:20 God, you watch carefully over all your devoted lovers like a bodyguard, but you will destroy the ungodly." 
Psalms145:21 I will praise you, Lord! Let everyone everywhere join me in praising the beautiful Lord of holiness from now through eternity!" 
Psalms146:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! My innermost being will praise you, Lord!" 
Psalms146:2 I will spend my life praising you and singing high praises to you, my God, every day of my life!" 
Psalms146:3 We can never look to men for help; no matter who they are, they can’t save us, for even our great leaders fail and fall. They too are just mortals who will one day die. At death the spirits of all depart and their bodies return to dust. In the day of their death all their projects and plans are over." 
Psalms146:4  
Psalms146:5 But those who hope in the Lord will be happy and pleased! Our help comes from the God of Jacob! 
Psalms146:6 You keep all your promises. You are the Creator of heaven’s glory, earth’s grandeur, and the ocean’s greatness." 
Psalms146:7 The oppressed get justice with you. The hungry are satisfied with you. Prisoners find their freedom with you. 
Psalms146:8 You open the eyes of the blind, and you fully restore those bent over with shame. You love those who love and honor you." 
Psalms146:9 You watch over strangers and immigrants and support the fatherless and widows. But you subvert the plans of the ungodly. 
Psalms146:10 Lord, you will reign forever! Zion’s God will rule throughout time and eternity! Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms147:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! How beautiful it is when we sing our praises to the beautiful God, for praise makes you lovely before him and brings him great delight!" 
Psalms147:2 Yahweh builds up Jerusalem; he gathers up the outcasts and brings them home. 
Psalms147:3 He heals the wounds of every shattered heart. 
Psalms147:4 He sets his stars in place, calling them all by their names." 
Psalms147:5 How great is our God! There’s absolutely nothing his power cannot accomplish, and he has infinite understanding of everything." 
Psalms147:6 Yahweh supports and strengthens the humble, but the ungodly will be brought down to the dust." 
Psalms147:7 Sing out with songs of thanksgiving to the Lord! Let’s sing our praises with melodies overflowing! 
Psalms147:8 He fills the sky with clouds, sending showers to water the earth so that the grass springs up on the mountain fields and the earth produces food for man." 
Psalms147:9 All the birds and beasts who cry with hunger to him are fed from his hands. 
Psalms147:10 His people don’t find security in strong horses, for horsepower is nothing to him. Manpower is even less impressive!" 
Psalms147:11 Yahweh shows favor to those who fear him, those who wait for his tender embrace." 
Psalms147:12 Jerusalem, praise the Lord! Zion, worship your God!" 
Psalms147:13 For he has strengthened the authority of your gates. He even blesses you with more children. 
Psalms147:14 He’s the one who brings peace to your borders, feeding you the most excellent of fare." 
Psalms147:15 He sends out his orders throughout the world; his words run as swift messengers, bringing them to pass." 
Psalms147:16 He blankets the earth with glistening snow, painting the landscape with frost." 
Psalms147:17 Sleet and hail fall from the sky, causing waters to freeze before winter’s icy blast." 
Psalms147:18 Then he speaks his word and it all melts away; as the warm spring winds blow, the streams begin to flow." 
Psalms147:19 In the same way, he speaks his word to Jacob, and to Israel he brings his life-giving instruction." 
Psalms147:20 He has dealt with Israel differently than with any other people, for they have received his laws. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms148:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Let the skies be filled with praise and the highest heavens with the shouts of glory! 
Psalms148:2 Go ahead—praise him, all you his messengers! Praise him some more, all you heavenly hosts!" 
Psalms148:3 Keep it up, sun and moon! Don’t stop now, all you twinkling stars of light!" 
Psalms148:4 Take it up even higher—up to the highest heavens, until the cosmic chorus thunders his praise!" 
Psalms148:5 Let the entire universe erupt with praise to God. He spoke and created it all—from nothing to something. 
Psalms148:6 He established the cosmos to last forever, and he stands behind his commands so his orders will never be revoked." 
Psalms148:7 Let the earth join in with this parade of praise! You mighty creatures of the ocean’s depths, echo in exaltation!" 
Psalms148:8 Lightning, hail, snow, clouds, and the stormy winds that fulfill his word—" 
Psalms148:9 bring your melody, O mountains and hills; trees of the forest and field, harmonize your praise!" 
Psalms148:10 Praise him, all beasts and birds, mice and men, kings, queens, princes, and princesses, young men and maidens, children and babes, old and young alike, everyone everywhere!" 
Psalms148:11  
Psalms148:12  
Psalms148:13 Let them all join in with this orchestra of praise. For the name of the Lord is the only name we raise! His stunning splendor ascends higher than the heavens. 
Psalms148:14 He anoints his people with strength and authority, showing his great favor to all his godly lovers, even to his princely people, Israel, who are so close to his heart. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord!" 
Psalms149:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! It’s time to sing to God a brand-new song so that all his holy people will hear how wonderful he is! 
Psalms149:2 May Israel be enthused with joy because of him, and may the sons of Zion pour out their joyful praises to their King." 
Psalms149:3 Break forth with dancing! Make music and sing God’s praises with the rhythm of drums! 
Psalms149:4 For he enjoys his faithful lovers. He adorns the humble with his beauty, and he loves to give them victory." 
Psalms149:5 His godly lovers triumph in the glory of God, and their joyful praises will rise even while others sleep." 
Psalms149:6 God’s high and holy praises fill their mouths, for their shouted praises are their weapons of war!" 
Psalms149:7 These warring weapons will bring vengeance on the nations and every resistant power— 
Psalms149:8 to bind kings with chains and rulers with iron shackles. 
Psalms149:9 Praise-filled warriors will enforce the judgment decreed against their enemies. This is the honor he gives to all his godly lovers. Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Psalms150:1 Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! Praise God in his holy sanctuary! Praise him in his stronghold in the sky! 
Psalms150:2 Praise him for his mighty miracles! Praise him for his magnificent greatness! 
Psalms150:3 Praise him with trumpets blasting! Praise him with piano and guitar! 
Psalms150:4 Praise him with drums and dancing! Praise him with loud clashing of cymbals! Praise him upon the high-sounding cymbals! 
Psalms150:5  
Psalms150:6 Let everyone everywhere join in the crescendo of ecstatic praise to Yahweh! Hallelujah! Praise the Lord! 
Proverbs1:1 Here are kingdom revelations, words to live by, and words of wisdom given to empower you to reign in life, written as proverbs by Israel’s King Solomon, David’s son." 
Proverbs1:2 Within these sayings will be found the revelation of wisdom and the impartation of spiritual understanding. Use them as keys to unlock the treasures of true knowledge. 
Proverbs1:3 Those who cling to these words will receive discipline to demonstrate wisdom in every relationship and to choose what is right and just and fair. 
Proverbs1:4 These proverbs will give you great skill to teach the immature and make them wise, to give youth the understanding of their design and destiny." 
Proverbs1:5 For the wise, these proverbs will make you even wiser, and for those with discernment, you will be able to acquire brilliant strategies for leadership." 
Proverbs1:6 These kingdom revelations will break open your understanding to unveil the deeper meaning of parables, poetic riddles, and epigrams, and to unravel the words and enigmas of the wise." 
Proverbs1:7 We cross the threshold of true knowledge when we live in obedient devotion to God. Stubborn know-it-alls will never stop to do this, for they scorn true wisdom and knowledge." 
Proverbs1:8 Pay close attention, my child, to your father’s wise words and never forget your mother’s instructions." 
Proverbs1:9 For their insight will bring you success, adorning you with grace-filled thoughts and giving you reins to guide your decisions." 
Proverbs1:10 When peer pressure compels you to go with the crowd and sinners invite you to join in, you must simply say, “No!”" 
Proverbs1:11 When the gang says— “We’re going to steal and kill and get away with it. 
Proverbs1:12 We’ll take down the rich and rob them. We’ll swallow them up alive and take what we want from whomever we want. 
Proverbs1:13 Then we’ll take their treasures and fill our homes with loot. 
Proverbs1:14 So come on and join us. Take your chance with us. We’ll divide up all we get; we’ll each end up with big bags of cash!”— 
Proverbs1:15 my son, refuse to go with them and stay far away from them." 
Proverbs1:16 For crime is their way of life and bloodshed their specialty. 
Proverbs1:17 To be aware of their snare is the best way of escape. 
Proverbs1:18 They’ll resort to murder to steal their victim’s assets, but eventually it will be their own lives that are ambushed." 
Proverbs1:19 In their ungodly disrespect for God they bring destruction on their own lives. 
Proverbs1:20 Wisdom’s praises are sung in the streets and celebrated far and wide. 
Proverbs1:21 Yet wisdom’s song is not always heard in the halls of higher learning. But in the hustle and bustle of everyday life its lyrics can always be heard above the din of the crowd. You will hear wisdom’s warning as she preaches courageously to those who stop to listen: 
Proverbs1:22 “Foolish ones, how much longer will you cling to your deception? How much longer will you mock wisdom, you cynical scorners who fight the facts?" 
Proverbs1:23 Come back to your senses and be restored to reality. Don’t even think about refusing my rebuke! Don’t you know that I’m ready to pour out my spirit of wisdom upon you and bring to you the revelation of my words that will make your heart wise? 
Proverbs1:24 I’ve called to you over and over; still you refuse to come to me. I’ve pleaded with you again and again, yet you’ve turned a deaf ear to my voice." 
Proverbs1:25 Because you have laughed at my counsel and have insisted on continuing in your stubbornness," 
Proverbs1:26 I will laugh when your calamity comes and will turn away from you at the time of your disaster. Make a joke of my advice, will you? Then I’ll make a joke out of you!" 
Proverbs1:27 When the storm clouds of terror gather over your head, when dread and distress consume you and your catastrophe comes like a hurricane," 
Proverbs1:28 you will cry out to me, but I won’t answer. Then it will be too late to expect my help. When desperation drives you to search for me, I will be nowhere to be found." 
Proverbs1:29 Because you have turned up your nose at me and closed your eyes to the facts and refused to worship me in awe — 
Proverbs1:30 because you scoffed at my wise counsel and laughed at my correction— 
Proverbs1:31 now you will eat the bitter fruit of your own ways. You’ve made your own bed; now lie in it! So how do you like that? 
Proverbs1:32 Like an idiot you’ve turned away from me and chosen destruction instead. Your self-satisfied smugness will kill you. 
Proverbs1:33 But the one who always listens to me will live undisturbed in a heavenly peace. Free from fear, confident and courageous, that one will rest unafraid and sheltered from the storms of life.”" 
Proverbs2:1 My child, will you treasure my wisdom? Then, and only then, will you acquire it. And only if you accept my advice and hide it within will you succeed." 
Proverbs2:2 So train your heart to listen when I speak and open your spirit wide to expand your discernment— then pass it on to your sons and daughters. 
Proverbs2:3 Yes, cry out for comprehension and intercede for insight." 
Proverbs2:4 For if you keep seeking it like a man would seek for sterling silver, searching in hidden places for cherished treasure," 
Proverbs2:5 then you will discover the fear of the Lord and find the true knowledge of God. 
Proverbs2:6 Wisdom is a gift from a generous God, and every word he speaks is full of revelation and becomes a fountain of understanding within you." 
Proverbs2:7 For the Lord has a hidden storehouse of wisdom made accessible to his godly ones. He becomes your personal bodyguard as you follow his ways, protecting and guarding you as you choose what is right." 
Proverbs2:8  
Proverbs2:9 Then you will discover all that is just, proper, and fair, and be empowered to make the right decisions as you walk into your destiny." 
Proverbs2:10 When wisdom wins your heart and revelation breaks in, true pleasure enters your soul." 
Proverbs2:11 If you choose to follow good counsel, divine design will watch over you and understanding will protect you from making poor choices." 
Proverbs2:12 It will rescue you from evil in disguise and from those who speak duplicities. 
Proverbs2:13 For they have left the paths of righteousness and walk in the ways of darkness. 
Proverbs2:14 They take pleasure when evil prospers and thoroughly enjoy a lifestyle of sin. 
Proverbs2:15 But they’re walking on a path to nowhere, wandering away into deeper deception." 
Proverbs2:16 Only wisdom can save you from the flattery of the promiscuous woman— she’s such a smooth-talking seductress! 
Proverbs2:17 She left her husband and has forgotten her wedding vows. 
Proverbs2:18 You’ll find her house on the road to hell," 
Proverbs2:19 and all the men who go through her doors will never come back to the place they were— they will find nothing but desolation and despair. 
Proverbs2:20 Follow those who follow wisdom and stay on the right path. 
Proverbs2:21 For all my godly lovers will enjoy life to the fullest and will inherit their destinies. 
Proverbs2:22 But the treacherous ones who love darkness will lose not only all they could have had, but even their own souls!" 
Proverbs3:1 My child, if you truly want a long and satisfying life, never forget the things that I’ve taught you. Follow closely every truth that I’ve given you. Then you will have a full, rewarding life." 
Proverbs3:2  
Proverbs3:3 Hold on to loyal love and don’t let go, and be faithful to all that you’ve been taught. Let your life be shaped by integrity, with truth written upon your heart." 
Proverbs3:4 That’s how you will find favor and understanding with both God and men— you will gain the reputation of living life well. 
Proverbs3:5 Trust in the Lord completely, and do not rely on your own opinions. With all your heart rely on him to guide you, and he will lead you in every decision you make." 
Proverbs3:6 Become intimate with him in whatever you do, and he will lead you wherever you go." 
Proverbs3:7 Don’t think for a moment that you know it all, for wisdom comes when you adore him with undivided devotion and avoid everything that’s wrong." 
Proverbs3:8 Then you will find the healing refreshment your body and spirit long for. 
Proverbs3:9 Glorify God with all your wealth, honoring him with your firstfruits, with every increase that comes to you." 
Proverbs3:10 Then every dimension of your life will overflow with blessings from an uncontainable source of inner joy! 
Proverbs3:11 My child, when the Lord God speaks to you, never take his words lightly, and never be upset when he corrects you." 
Proverbs3:12 For the Father’s discipline comes only from his passionate love and pleasure for you. Even when it seems like his correction is harsh, it’s still better than any father on earth gives to his child." 
Proverbs3:13 Blessings pour over the ones who find wisdom, for they have obtained living-understanding." 
Proverbs3:14 As wisdom increases, a great treasure is imparted, greater than many bars of refined gold." 
Proverbs3:15 It is a more valuable commodity than gold and gemstones, for there is nothing you desire that could compare to her." 
Proverbs3:16 Wisdom extends to you long life in one hand and wealth and promotion in the other. Out of her mouth flows righteousness, and her words release both law and mercy." 
Proverbs3:17 The ways of wisdom are sweet, always drawing you into the place of wholeness." 
Proverbs3:18 Seeking for her brings the discovery of untold blessings, for she is the healing tree of life to those who taste her fruits." 
Proverbs3:19 The Lord laid the earth’s foundations with wisdom’s blueprints. By his living-understanding all the universe came into being. 
Proverbs3:20 By his divine revelation he broke open the hidden fountains of the deep, bringing secret springs to the surface as the mist of the night dripped down from heaven." 
Proverbs3:21 My child, never drift off course from these two goals for your life: to walk in wisdom and to discover your purpose. Don’t ever forget how they empower you." 
Proverbs3:22 For they strengthen you inside and out and inspire you to do what’s right; you will be energized and refreshed by the healing they bring. 
Proverbs3:23 They give you living hope to guide you, and not one of life’s tests will cause you to stumble." 
Proverbs3:24 You will sleep like a baby, safe and sound— your rest will be sweet and secure." 
Proverbs3:25 You will not be subject to terror, for it will not terrify you. Nor will the disrespectful be able to push you aside," 
Proverbs3:26 because God is your confidence in times of crisis, keeping your heart at rest in every situation." 
Proverbs3:27 Why would you withhold payment on your debt when you have the ability to pay? Just do it! 
Proverbs3:28 When your friend comes to ask you for a favor, why would you say, “Perhaps tomorrow,” when you have the money right there in your pocket? Help him today!" 
Proverbs3:29 Why would you hold a grudge in your heart toward your neighbor who lives right next door? 
Proverbs3:30 And why would you quarrel with those who have done nothing wrong to you? Is that a chip on your shoulder? 
Proverbs3:31 Don’t act like those bullies or learn their ways. 
Proverbs3:32 Every violent thug is despised by the Lord, but every tender lover finds friendship with God and will hear his intimate secrets." 
Proverbs3:33 The wicked walk under God’s constant curse, but the righteous walk under a stream of his blessing, for they seek to do what is right." 
Proverbs3:34 If you walk with the mockers you will learn to mock, but God’s grace and favor flow to the meek." 
Proverbs3:35 Stubborn fools fill their lives with disgrace, but glory and honor rest upon the wise." 
Proverbs4:1 Listen to my correction, my sons, for I speak to you as your father. Let discernment enter your heart and you will grow wise with the understanding I impart." 
Proverbs4:2 My revelation-truth is a gift to you, so remain faithful to my instruction." 
Proverbs4:3 For I, too, was once the delight of my father and cherished by my mother—their beloved child." 
Proverbs4:4 Then my father taught me, saying, “Never forget my words. If you do everything that I teach you, you will reign in life.”" 
Proverbs4:5 So make wisdom your quest— search for the revelation of life’s meaning. Don’t let what I say go in one ear and out the other. 
Proverbs4:6 Stick with wisdom and she will stick to you, protecting you throughout your days. She will rescue all those who passionately listen to her voice." 
Proverbs4:7 Wisdom is the most valuable commodity—so buy it! Revelation-knowledge is what you need—so invest in it! 
Proverbs4:8 Wisdom will exalt you when you exalt her truth. She will lead you to honor and favor when you live your life by her insights. 
Proverbs4:9 You will be adorned with beauty and grace, and wisdom’s glory will wrap itself around you, making you victorious in the race." 
Proverbs4:10 My son, if you will take the time to stop and listen to me and embrace what I say, you will live a long and happy life full of understanding in every way." 
Proverbs4:11 I have taken you by the hand in wisdom’s ways, pointing you to the path of integrity." 
Proverbs4:12 Your progress will have no limits when you come along with me, and you will never stumble as you walk along the way." 
Proverbs4:13 So receive my correction no matter how hard it is to swallow, for wisdom will snap you back into place— her words will be invigorating life to you." 
Proverbs4:14 Do not detour into darkness or even set foot on that path. 
Proverbs4:15 Stay away from it; don’t even go there! 
Proverbs4:16 For troublemakers are restless if they are not involved in evil. They are not satisfied until they have brought someone harm. 
Proverbs4:17 They feed on darkness and drink until they’re drunk on the wine of wickedness. 
Proverbs4:18 But the lovers of God walk on the highway of light, and their way shines brighter and brighter until the perfect day." 
Proverbs4:19 But the wicked walk in thick darkness, like those who travel in fog, and yet don’t have a clue why they keep stumbling!" 
Proverbs4:20 Listen carefully, my dear child, to everything that I teach you, and pay attention to all that I have to say." 
Proverbs4:21 Fill your thoughts with my words until they penetrate deep into your spirit. 
Proverbs4:22 Then, as you unwrap my words, they will impart true life and radiant health into the very core of your being." 
Proverbs4:23 So above all, guard the affections of your heart, for they affect all that you are. Pay attention to the welfare of your innermost being, for from there flows the wellspring of life." 
Proverbs4:24 Avoid dishonest speech and pretentious words. Be free from using perverse words no matter what! 
Proverbs4:25 Set your gaze on the path before you. With fixed purpose, looking straight ahead, ignore life’s distractions." 
Proverbs4:26 Watch where you’re going! Stick to the path of truth, and the road will be safe and smooth before you." 
Proverbs4:27 Don’t allow yourself to be sidetracked for even a moment or take the detour that leads to darkness. 
Proverbs5:1 Listen to me, my son, for I know what I’m talking about. Listen carefully to my advice" 
Proverbs5:2 so that wisdom and discernment will enter your heart, and then the words you speak will express what you’ve learned." 
Proverbs5:3 Remember this: The lips of a seductress seem sweet like honey, and her smooth words are like music in your ears." 
Proverbs5:4 But I promise you this: In the end all you’ll be left with is a bitter conscience. For the sting of your sin will pierce your soul like a sword. 
Proverbs5:5 She will ruin your life, drag you down to death, and lead you straight to hell." 
Proverbs5:6 She has prevented many from considering the paths of life. Yes, she will take you with her where you don’t want to go, sliding down a slippery road and not even realizing where the two of you will end up!" 
Proverbs5:7 Listen to me, young men, and don’t forget this one thing I’m telling you— run away from her as fast as you can!" 
Proverbs5:8 Don’t even go near the door of her house unless you want to fall into her seduction. 
Proverbs5:9 In disgrace you will relinquish your honor to another, and all your remaining years will be squandered— given over to the cruel one." 
Proverbs5:10 Why would you let strangers take away your strength while the labors of your house go to someone else? 
Proverbs5:11 For when you grow old you will groan in anguish and shame as sexually transmitted diseases consume your body. 
Proverbs5:12 And then finally you’ll admit that you were wrong and say, “If only I had listened to wisdom’s voice and not stubbornly demanded my own way, because my heart hated to be told what to do!" 
Proverbs5:13 Why didn’t I take seriously the warning of my wise counselors? Why was I so stupid to think that I could get away with it? 
Proverbs5:14 Now I’m totally disgraced and my life is ruined! I’m paying the price— for the people of the congregation are now my judges.” 
Proverbs5:15 My son, share your love with your wife alone. Drink from her well of pleasure and from no other." 
Proverbs5:16 Why would you have sex with a stranger or with anyone other than her? 
Proverbs5:17 Reserve this pleasure for you and her alone and do not share it with another. 
Proverbs5:18 Your sex life will be blessed as you take joy and pleasure in the wife of your youth. 
Proverbs5:19 Let her breasts be your satisfaction, and let her embrace intoxicate you at all times. Be continually delighted and ravished with her love!" 
Proverbs5:20 My son, why would you be exhilarated by an adulteress— by embracing a woman who is not yours?" 
Proverbs5:21 For God sees everything you do and his eyes are wide open as he observes every single habit you have. 
Proverbs5:22 Beware that your sins don’t overtake you and that the scars of your own conscience don’t become the ropes that tie you up. 
Proverbs5:23 Those who choose wickedness die for lack of self-control, for their foolish ways lead them astray, carrying them away as hostages— kidnapped captives robbed of destiny." 
Proverbs6:1 My son, if you cosign a loan for an acquaintance and guarantee his debt, you’ll be sorry that you ever did it!" 
Proverbs6:2 You’ll be trapped by your promise and legally bound by the agreement. So listen carefully to my advice: 
Proverbs6:3 Quickly get out of it if you possibly can! Swallow your pride, get over your embarrassment, and go tell your “friend” you want your name off that contract." 
Proverbs6:4 Don’t put it off, and don’t rest until you get it done." 
Proverbs6:5 Rescue yourself from future pain and be free from it once and for all. You’ll be so relieved that you did! 
Proverbs6:6 When you’re feeling lazy, come and learn a lesson from this tale of the tiny ant. Yes, all you lazybones, come learn from the example of the ant and enter into wisdom." 
Proverbs6:7 The ants have no chief, no boss, no manager— no one has to tell them what to do." 
Proverbs6:8 You’ll see them working and toiling all summer long, stockpiling their food in preparation for winter." 
Proverbs6:9 So wake up, sleepyhead. How long will you lie there? When will you wake up and get out of bed?" 
Proverbs6:10 If you keep nodding off and thinking, “I’ll do it later,” or say to yourself, “I’ll just sit back awhile and take it easy,” just watch how the future unfolds!" 
Proverbs6:11 By making excuses you’ll learn what it means to go without. Poverty will pounce on you like a bandit and move in as your roommate for life. 
Proverbs6:12 Here’s another life lesson to learn from observing wayward and wicked men. You can tell they are lawless. They’re constant liars, proud deceivers, full of clever ploys and convincing plots." 
Proverbs6:13  
Proverbs6:14 Their twisted thoughts are perverse, and they are always scheming to stir up trouble, and sowing strife with every step they take." 
Proverbs6:15 But when calamity comes knocking on their door, suddenly and without warning they’re undone— broken to bits, shattered, with no hope of healing." 
Proverbs6:16 There are six evils God truly hates and a seventh that is an abomination to him: 
Proverbs6:17 Putting others down while considering yourself superior, spreading lies and rumors, spilling the blood of the innocent," 
Proverbs6:18 plotting evil in your heart toward another, gloating over doing what’s plainly wrong," 
Proverbs6:19 spouting lies in false testimony, and stirring up strife between friends. These are entirely despicable to God!" 
Proverbs6:20 My son, obey your father’s godly instruction and follow your mother’s life-giving teaching." 
Proverbs6:21 Fill your heart with their advice and let your life be shaped by what they’ve taught you. 
Proverbs6:22 Their wisdom will guide you wherever you go and keep you from bringing harm to yourself. Their instruction will whisper to you at every sunrise and direct you through a brand-new day. 
Proverbs6:23 For truth is a bright beam of light shining into every area of your life, instructing and correcting you to discover the ways to godly living." 
Proverbs6:24 Truth will protect you from immorality and from the promiscuity of another man’s wife. Your heart won’t be enticed by her flatteries or lust over her beauty— nor will her suggestive ways conquer you. 
Proverbs6:25  
Proverbs6:26 Prostitutes reduce a man to poverty, and the adulteress steals your soul— she may even cost you your life!" 
Proverbs6:27 For how can a man light his pants on fire and not be burned? 
Proverbs6:28 Can he walk over hot coals of fire and not blister his feet? 
Proverbs6:29 What makes you think that you can sleep with another man’s wife and not get caught? Do you really think you’ll get away with it? Don’t you know it will ruin your life? 
Proverbs6:30 You can almost excuse a thief if he steals to feed his own family. 
Proverbs6:31 But if he’s caught, he still has to pay back what he stole sevenfold; his punishment and fine will cost him greatly." 
Proverbs6:32 Don’t be so stupid as to think you can get away with your adultery. It will destroy your life, and you’ll pay the price for the rest of your days." 
Proverbs6:33 You’ll discover what humiliation, shame, and disgrace are all about, for no one will ever let you forget what you’ve done." 
Proverbs6:34 A husband’s jealousy makes a man furious; he won’t spare you when he comes to take revenge. 
Proverbs6:35 Try all you want to talk your way out of it— offer him a bribe and see if you can manipulate him with your money. Nothing will turn him aside when he comes to you with vengeance in his eyes! 
Proverbs7:1 Stick close to my instruction, my son, and follow all my advice." 
Proverbs7:2 If you do what I say you will live well. Guard your life with my revelation-truth, for my teaching is as precious as your eyesight." 
Proverbs7:3 Treasure my instructions, and cherish them within your heart." 
Proverbs7:4 Say to wisdom, “I love you,” and to understanding, “You’re my sweetheart.”" 
Proverbs7:5 “May the two of you protect me, and may we never be apart!” For they will keep you from the adulteress, with her smooth words meant to seduce your heart." 
Proverbs7:6 Looking out the window of my house one day 
Proverbs7:7 I noticed among the mindless crowd a simple, naïve young man who was about to go astray." 
Proverbs7:8 There he was, walking down the street. Then he turned the corner, going on his way hurrying to the house of the harlot— the woman he had planned to meet." 
Proverbs7:9 There he was in the twilight as darkness fell, convinced no one was watching as he entered the black shadows of hell." 
Proverbs7:10 That’s when their rendezvous began. A woman of the night appeared, dressed to kill the strength of any man. She was decked out as a harlot, pursuing her amorous plan." 
Proverbs7:11 Her voice was seductive, rebellious, and boisterous as she wandered far from what’s right." 
Proverbs7:12 Her type can be found soliciting on street corners on just about any night. 
Proverbs7:13 She wrapped her arms around the senseless young man and held him tight— she enticed him with kisses that seemed so right. Then, with insolence, she whispered in his ear," 
Proverbs7:14 “Come with me. It’ll be all right. I’ve got everything we need for a feast. I’ll cook you a wonderful dinner. So here I am—I’m all yours! 
Proverbs7:15 You’re the very one I’ve looked for, the one I knew I wanted from the moment I saw you. That’s why I’ve come out here tonight, so I could meet a man just like you." 
Proverbs7:16 I’ve spread my canopy bed with coverings, lovely multicolored Egyptian linens ready for you to lie down on." 
Proverbs7:17 I’ve sprinkled the sheets with intoxicating perfume made from myrrh, aloes, and sweet cinnamon." 
Proverbs7:18 Come, let’s get comfortable and take pleasure in each other and make love all night!" 
Proverbs7:19 There’s no one home, for my husband’s away on business." 
Proverbs7:20 He left home loaded with money to spend, so don’t worry. He won’t be back until another month ends.”" 
Proverbs7:21 He was swayed by her sophistication, enticed by her longing embrace. She led him down the wayward path right into sin and disgrace. Quickly he went astray, with no clue where he was truly headed, taken like a dumb ox alongside the butcher. She was like a venomous snake coiled to strike, so she set her fangs into him!" 
Proverbs7:22  
Proverbs7:23 He’s like a man about to be executed with an arrow right through his heart— like a bird that flies into the net, unaware of what’s about to happen." 
Proverbs7:24 So listen to me, you young men. You’d better take my words seriously!" 
Proverbs7:25 Control your sexual urges and guard your hearts against lust. Don’t let your passions get out of hand and don’t lock your eyes onto a beautiful woman. Why would you want to even get close to temptation and seduction, to have an affair with her?" 
Proverbs7:26 She has pierced the souls of multitudes of men— many mighty ones have fallen and have been brought down by her. 
Proverbs7:27 If you’re looking for the road to hell, just go looking for her house!" 
Proverbs8:1 Can’t you hear the voice of Wisdom? From the top of the mountains of influence she speaks into the gateways of the glorious city. At the place where pathways merge, at the entrance of every portal, there she stands, ready to impart understanding, shouting aloud to all who enter, preaching her sermon to those who will listen." 
Proverbs8:2  
Proverbs8:3  
Proverbs8:4 “I’m calling to you, sons of Adam, yes, and to you daughters as well." 
Proverbs8:5 Listen to me and you will be prudent and wise. For even the foolish and feeble can receive an understanding heart that will change their inner being. 
Proverbs8:6 The meaning of my words will release within you revelation for you to reign in life. My lyrics will empower you to live by what is right. 
Proverbs8:7 For everything I say is unquestionably true, and I refuse to endure the lies of lawlessness— my words will never lead you astray." 
Proverbs8:8 All the declarations of my mouth can be trusted; they contain no twisted logic or perversion of the truth. 
Proverbs8:9 All my words are clear and straightforward to everyone who possesses spiritual understanding. If you have an open mind, you will receive revelation-knowledge." 
Proverbs8:10 My wise correction is more valuable than silver or gold. The finest gold is nothing compared to the revelation-knowledge I can impart.” 
Proverbs8:11 Wisdom is so priceless that it exceeds the value of any jewel. Nothing you could wish for can equal her. 
Proverbs8:12 “For I am Wisdom, and I am shrewd and intelligent. I have at my disposal living-understanding to devise a plan for your life." 
Proverbs8:13 Wisdom pours into you when you begin to hate every form of evil in your life, for that’s what worship and fearing God is all about. Then you will discover that your pompous pride and perverse speech are the very ways of wickedness that I hate!”" 
Proverbs8:14 “You will find true success when you find me, for I have insight into wise plans that are designed just for you. I hold in my hands living-understanding, courage, and strength." 
Proverbs8:15 I empower kings to reign and rulers to make laws that are just. 
Proverbs8:16 I empower princes to rise and take dominion, and generous ones to govern the earth." 
Proverbs8:17 I will show my love to those who passionately love me. For they will search and search continually until they find me. 
Proverbs8:18 Unending wealth and glory come to those who discover where I dwell. The riches of righteousness and a long, satisfying life will be given to them." 
Proverbs8:19 What I impart has greater worth than gold and treasure, and the increase I bring benefits more than a windfall of income." 
Proverbs8:20 I lead you into the ways of righteousness to discover the paths of true justice. 
Proverbs8:21 Those who love me gain great wealth and a glorious inheritance, and I will fill their lives with treasures.”" 
Proverbs8:22 “In the beginning I was there, for God possessed me even before he created the universe." 
Proverbs8:23 From eternity past I was set in place, before the world began. I was anointed from the beginning." 
Proverbs8:24 Before the oceans depths were poured out, and before there were any glorious fountains overflowing with water, I was there, dancing!" 
Proverbs8:25 Even before one mountain had been sculpted or one hill raised up, I was already there, dancing!" 
Proverbs8:26 When he created the earth, the fields, even the first atom of dust, I was already there." 
Proverbs8:27 When he hung the tapestry of the heavens and stretched out the horizon of the earth," 
Proverbs8:28 when the clouds and skies were set in place and the subterranean fountains began to flow strong, I was already there." 
Proverbs8:29 When he set in place the pillars of the earth and spoke the decrees of the seas, commanding the waves so that they wouldn’t overstep their boundaries," 
Proverbs8:30 I was there, close to the Creator’s side as his master artist. Daily he was filled with delight in me as I playfully rejoiced before him." 
Proverbs8:31 I laughed and played, so happy with what he had made, while finding my delight in the children of men.”" 
Proverbs8:32 “So listen, my sons and daughters, to everything I tell you, for nothing will bring you more joy than following my ways." 
Proverbs8:33 Listen to my counsel, for my instruction will enlighten you. You’ll be wise not to ignore it." 
Proverbs8:34 If you wait at wisdom’s doorway, longing to hear a word for every day, joy will break forth within you as you listen for what I’ll say." 
Proverbs8:35 For the fountain of life pours into you every time that you find me, and this is the secret of growing in the delight and the favor of the Lord." 
Proverbs8:36 But those who stumble and miss me will be sorry they did! For ignoring what I have to say will bring harm to your own soul. Those who hate me are simply flirting with death!” 
Proverbs9:1 Wisdom has built herself a palace upon seven pillars to keep it secure. 
Proverbs9:2 She has made ready a banquet feast and the sacrifice has been killed. She has mingled her wine, and the table’s all set." 
Proverbs9:3 She has sent out her maidens, crying out from the high place, inviting everyone to come and eat until they’re full." 
Proverbs9:4 “Whoever wants to know me and receive my wisdom," 
Proverbs9:5 come and dine at my table and drink of my wine. 
Proverbs9:6 Lay aside your simple thoughts and leave your paths behind. Agree with my ways, live in my truth, and you will find righteousness.”" 
Proverbs9:7 If you try to correct an arrogant cynic, expect an angry insult in return. And if you try to confront an evil man, don’t be surprised if all you get is a slap in the face!" 
Proverbs9:8 So don’t even bother to correct a mocker, for he’ll only hate you for it. But go ahead and correct the wise; they’ll love you even more." 
Proverbs9:9 Teach a wise man what is right and he’ll grow even wiser. Instruct the lovers of God and they’ll learn even more. 
Proverbs9:10 The starting point for acquiring wisdom is to be consumed with awe as you worship Yahweh. To receive the revelation of the Holy One, you must come to the one who has living-understanding." 
Proverbs9:11 Wisdom will extend your life, making every year more fruitful than the one before." 
Proverbs9:12 So it is to your advantage to be wise. But to ignore the counsel of wisdom is to invite trouble into your life. 
Proverbs9:13 There is a spirit named Foolish, who is boisterous and brash; she’s seductive and restless." 
Proverbs9:14 And there she sits at the gateway to the high places, on her throne overlooking the city." 
Proverbs9:15 She preaches to all who walk by her who are clueless as to what is happening: 
Proverbs9:16 “Come home with me.” She invites those who are easily led astray, saying," 
Proverbs9:17 “Illicit sex is the best sex of all. Our secret affair will be sweeter than all others.” 
Proverbs9:18 Little do they know when they answer her call that she dwells among the spirits of the dead, and all her guests soon become citizens of hell!" 
Proverbs10:1 The wisdom of Solomon: When wisdom comes to a son, joy comes to a father. When a son turns from wisdom, a mother grieves." 
Proverbs10:2 Gaining wealth through dishonesty is no gain at all. But honesty brings you a lasting happiness. 
Proverbs10:3 The Lord satisfies the longings of all his lovers, but he withholds from the wicked what their souls crave." 
Proverbs10:4 Slackers will know what it means to be poor, while the hard worker becomes wealthy." 
Proverbs10:5 Know the importance of the season you’re in and a wise son you will be. But what a waste when an incompetent son sleeps through his day of opportunity! 
Proverbs10:6 The lover of God is enriched beyond belief, but the evil man only curses his luck." 
Proverbs10:7 The reputation of the righteous becomes a sweet memorial to him, while the wicked life only leaves a rotten stench." 
Proverbs10:8 The heart of the wise will easily accept instruction. But those who do all the talking are too busy to listen and learn. They’ll just keep stumbling ahead into the mess they created. 
Proverbs10:9 The one who walks in integrity will experience a fearless confidence in life, but the one who is devious will eventually be exposed." 
Proverbs10:10 The troublemaker always has a clever plan and won’t look you in the eye, but the one who speaks correction honestly can be trusted to make peace." 
Proverbs10:11 The teachings of the lovers of God are like living truth flowing from the fountain of life, but the words of the wicked hide an ulterior motive." 
Proverbs10:12 Hatred keeps old quarrels alive, but love draws a veil over every insult and finds a way to make sin disappear." 
Proverbs10:13 Words of wisdom flow from the one with true discernment. But to the heartless, words of wisdom become like rods beating their backside." 
Proverbs10:14 Wise men don’t divulge all that they know, but chattering fools blurt out words that bring them to the brink of ruin." 
Proverbs10:15 A rich man’s wealth becomes like a citadel of strength, but the poverty of the poor leaves their security in shambles." 
Proverbs10:16 The lovers of God earn their wages for a life of righteousness, but the wages of the wicked are squandered on a life of sin." 
Proverbs10:17 If you readily receive correction, you are walking on the path to life. But if you reject rebuke, you’re guaranteed to go astray." 
Proverbs10:18 The one who hides his hatred while pretending to be your friend is nothing but a liar. But the one who slanders you behind your back proves that he’s a fool, never to be trusted." 
Proverbs10:19 If you keep talking, it won’t be long before you’re saying something really wrong. Prove you’re wise from the very start— just bite your tongue and be strong!" 
Proverbs10:20 The teachings of the godly ones are like pure silver, bringing words of redemption to others, but the heart of the wicked is corrupt." 
Proverbs10:21 The lovers of God feed many with their teachings, but the foolish ones starve themselves for lack of an understanding heart." 
Proverbs10:22 True enrichment comes from the blessing of the Lord, with rest and contentment in knowing that it all comes from him." 
Proverbs10:23 The fool finds fun in planning to do wrong, but the wise delight in having discernment." 
Proverbs10:24 The lawless are haunted by their fears and what they dread will come upon them, but the longings of the lovers of God will all be fulfilled." 
Proverbs10:25 The wicked are blown away by every stormy wind. But when a catastrophe comes, the lovers of God have a secure anchor." 
Proverbs10:26 To trust a lazy person to get a job done will be as irritating as smoke in your eyes— as enjoyable as a toothache! 
Proverbs10:27 Living in the worship and awe of God will bring you many years of contented living. So how could the wicked ever expect to have a long, happy life?" 
Proverbs10:28 Lovers of God have a joyful feast of gladness, but the ungodly see their hopes vanish right before their eyes." 
Proverbs10:29 The beautiful ways of God are a safe resting place for those who have integrity. But to those who work wickedness the ways of God spell doom. 
Proverbs10:30 God’s lover can never be greatly shaken. But the wicked will never inherit the covenant blessings. 
Proverbs10:31 The teachings of the righteous are loaded with wisdom, but the words of the evil ones are crooked and perverse." 
Proverbs10:32 Words that bring delight pour from the lips of the godly, but the words of the wicked are duplicitous." 
Proverbs11:1 Dishonest business practice is something that Yahweh truly hates. But it pleases him when we apply the right standards of measurement. 
Proverbs11:2 When you act with presumption, convinced that you’re right, don’t be surprised if you fall flat on your face! But humility leads to wisdom." 
Proverbs11:3 Integrity will lead you to success, but treachery will destroy your dreams." 
Proverbs11:4 When judgment day comes, all the wealth of the world won’t help you one bit. So be rich in righteousness, for that’s the only thing that can save you in death." 
Proverbs11:5 Those with good character walk on a smooth path, with no detour or deviation. But the wicked keep falling because of their own wickedness." 
Proverbs11:6 Integrity will keep a good man from falling. But the unbeliever is trapped, held captive to his sinful desires." 
Proverbs11:7 When an evil man dies, all hope is lost, for his misplaced confidence goes in the coffin, buried along with him." 
Proverbs11:8 The righteous are snatched away from trouble, and the wicked show up in their place." 
Proverbs11:9 The teachings of hypocrites can destroy you, but revelation-knowledge will rescue the righteous." 
Proverbs11:10 The blessing that rests on the righteous releases strength and favor to the entire city, but shouts of joy will be heard when the wicked one dies." 
Proverbs11:11 The blessing of favor resting upon the righteous influences a city to lift it higher, but wicked leaders tear it apart by their words." 
Proverbs11:12 To quarrel with a neighbor is senseless. Bite your tongue; be wise and keep quiet! 
Proverbs11:13 You can’t trust gossipers with a secret; they’ll just go blab it all. Put your confidence instead in a trusted friend, for he will be faithful to keep it in confidence." 
Proverbs11:14 People lose their way without wise leadership, but a nation succeeds and stands in victory when it has many good counselors to guide it." 
Proverbs11:15 The evil man will do harm when confronted by a righteous man, because he hates those who await good news." 
Proverbs11:16 A gracious, generous woman will be honored with a splendid reputation, but the woman who hates the truth lives with disgrace and is surrounded by men who are cutthroats, only greedy for money." 
Proverbs11:17 A man of kindness attracts favor, while a cruel man attracts nothing but trouble." 
Proverbs11:18 Evil people may get a short-term gain, but to sow seeds of righteousness will bring a true and lasting reward." 
Proverbs11:19 A son of righteousness experiences the abundant life, but the one who pursues evil hurries to his own death." 
Proverbs11:20 The Lord can’t stand the stubborn heart bent toward evil, but he treasures those whose ways are pure." 
Proverbs11:21 Assault your neighbor and you will certainly be punished, but God will rescue the children of the godly." 
Proverbs11:22 A beautiful woman who abandons good morals is like a fine gold ring dangling from a pig’s snout. 
Proverbs11:23 True lovers of God are filled with longings for what is pleasing and good, but the wicked can only expect doom." 
Proverbs11:24 Generosity brings prosperity, but withholding from charity brings poverty." 
Proverbs11:25 Those who live to bless others will have blessings heaped upon them, and the one who pours out his life to pour out blessings will be saturated with favor." 
Proverbs11:26 People will curse the businessman with no ethics, but the one with a social conscience receives praise from all." 
Proverbs11:27 Living your life seeking what is good for others brings untold favor, but those who wish evil for others will find it coming back on them." 
Proverbs11:28 Keep trusting in your riches and down you’ll go! But the lovers of God rise up like flowers in the spring. 
Proverbs11:29 The fool who brings trouble to his own family will be cut out of the will, and the family servant will do better than he." 
Proverbs11:30 But a life lived loving God bears lasting fruit, for the one who is truly wise wins souls." 
Proverbs11:31 If the righteous are barely saved, what’s in store for all the wicked?" 
Proverbs12:1 To learn the truth you must long to be teachable, or you can despise correction and remain ignorant." 
Proverbs12:2 If your heart is right, favor flows from the Lord, but a devious heart invites his condemnation." 
Proverbs12:3 You can’t expect success by doing what’s wrong. But the lives of his lovers are deeply rooted and firmly planted. 
Proverbs12:4 The integrity and strength of a virtuous wife transforms her husband into an honored king. But the wife who disgraces her husband weakens the strength of his identity. 
Proverbs12:5 The lovers of God are filled with good ideas that are noble and pure, but the schemes of the sinner are crammed with nothing but lies." 
Proverbs12:6 The wicked use their words to ambush and accuse, but the lovers of God speak to defend and protect." 
Proverbs12:7 The wicked are taken out, gone for good, but the godly families shall live on." 
Proverbs12:8 Everyone admires a man of principles, but the one with a corrupt heart is despised." 
Proverbs12:9 Just be who you are and work hard for a living, for that’s better than pretending to be important and starving to death." 
Proverbs12:10 A good man takes care of the needs of his pets, while even the kindest acts of a wicked man are still cruel." 
Proverbs12:11 Work hard at your job and you’ll have what you need. Following a get-rich-quick scheme is nothing but a fantasy. 
Proverbs12:12 The cravings of the wicked are only for what is evil, but righteousness is the core motivation for the lovers of God, and it keeps them content and flourishing." 
Proverbs12:13 The wicked will get trapped by their words of gossip, slander, and lies. But for the righteous, honesty is its own defense." 
Proverbs12:14 For there is great satisfaction in speaking the truth, and hard work brings blessings back to you." 
Proverbs12:15 A fool is in love with his own opinion, but wisdom means being teachable." 
Proverbs12:16 If you shrug off an insult and refuse to take offense, you demonstrate discretion indeed. But the fool has a short fuse and will immediately let you know when he’s offended." 
Proverbs12:17 Truthfulness marks the righteous, but the habitual liar can never be trusted." 
Proverbs12:18 Reckless words are like the thrusts of a sword, cutting remarks meant to stab and to hurt. But the words of the wise soothe and heal." 
Proverbs12:19 Truthful words will stand the test of time, but one day every lie will be seen for what it is." 
Proverbs12:20 Deception fills the hearts of those who plot harm, but those who plan for peace are filled with joy." 
Proverbs12:21 Calamity is not allowed to overwhelm the righteous, but there’s nothing but trouble waiting for the wicked." 
Proverbs12:22 Live in the truth and keep your promises, and the Lord will keep delighting in you, but he detests a liar." 
Proverbs12:23 Those who possess wisdom don’t feel the need to impress others with what they know, but foolish ones make sure their ignorance is on display." 
Proverbs12:24 If you want to reign in life, don’t sit on your hands. Instead, work hard at doing what’s right, for the slacker will end up working to make someone else succeed." 
Proverbs12:25 Anxious fear brings depression, but a life-giving word of encouragement can do wonders to restore joy to the heart." 
Proverbs12:26 Lovers of God give good advice to their friends, but the counsel of the wicked will lead them astray." 
Proverbs12:27 A passive person won’t even complete a project, but a passionate person makes good use of his time, wealth, and energy." 
Proverbs12:28 Abundant life is discovered by walking in righteousness, but holding on to your anger leads to death." 
Proverbs13:1 A wise son or daughter desires a father’s discipline, but the know-it-all never listens to correction." 
Proverbs13:2 The words of the wise are kind and easy to swallow, but the unbeliever just wants to pick a fight and argue." 
Proverbs13:3 Guard your words and you’ll guard your life, but if you don’t control your tongue, it will ruin everything." 
Proverbs13:4 The slacker wants it all and ends up with nothing, but the hard worker ends up with all that he longed for." 
Proverbs13:5 Lovers of God hate what is phony and false, but the wicked are full of shame and behave shamefully." 
Proverbs13:6 Righteousness is like a shield of protection, guarding those who keep their integrity, but sin is the downfall of the wicked." 
Proverbs13:7 One pretends to be rich but is poor. Another pretends to be poor but is quite rich. 
Proverbs13:8 The self-assurance of the rich is their money, but people don’t kidnap and extort the poor!" 
Proverbs13:9 The virtues of God’s lovers shine brightly in the darkness, but the flickering lamp of the ungodly will be extinguished." 
Proverbs13:10 Wisdom opens your heart to receive wise counsel, but pride closes your ears to advice and gives birth only to quarrels and strife." 
Proverbs13:11 Wealth quickly gained is quickly wasted — easy come, easy go! But if you gradually gain wealth, you will watch it grow." 
Proverbs13:12 When hope’s dream seems to drag on and on, the delay can be depressing. But when at last your dream comes true, life’s sweetness will satisfy your soul." 
Proverbs13:13 Despise the word, will you? Then you’ll pay the price and it won’t be pretty! But the one who honors the Father’s holy instructions will be rewarded." 
Proverbs13:14 When the lovers of God teach you truth, a fountain of life opens up within you, and their wise instruction will deliver you from the ways of death." 
Proverbs13:15 Everyone admires a wise, sensible person, but the treacherous walk on the path of ruin." 
Proverbs13:16 Everything a wise and shrewd man does comes from a source of revelation-knowledge, but the behavior of a fool puts foolishness on parade!" 
Proverbs13:17 An undependable messenger causes a lot of trouble, but the trustworthy and wise messengers release healing wherever they go." 
Proverbs13:18 Poverty and disgrace come to the one who refuses to hear criticism. But the one who is easy to correct is on the path of honor. 
Proverbs13:19 When God fulfills your longings, sweetness fills your soul. But the wicked refuse to turn from darkness to see their desires come to pass." 
Proverbs13:20 If you want to grow in wisdom, spend time with the wise. Walk with the wicked and you’ll eventually become just like them." 
Proverbs13:21 Calamity chases the sin-chaser, but prosperity pursues the God-lover." 
Proverbs13:22 The benevolent man leaves an inheritance that endures to his children’s children, but the wealth of the wicked is treasured up for the righteous." 
Proverbs13:23 The lovers of God will live a long life and get to enjoy their wealth, but the ungodly will suddenly perish." 
Proverbs13:24 If you withhold correction and punishment from your children, you demonstrate a lack of true love. So prove your love and be prompt to punish them." 
Proverbs13:25 The lovers of God will have more than enough, but the wicked will always lack what they crave." 
Proverbs14:1 Every wise woman encourages and builds up her family, but a foolish woman over time will tear it down by her own actions." 
Proverbs14:2 Lovers of truth follow the right path because of their wonderment and worship of God. But the devious display their disdain for him. 
Proverbs14:3 The words of a proud fool will all come back to haunt him. But the words of the wise will become a shield of protection around them. 
Proverbs14:4 The only clean stable is an empty stable. So if you want the work of an ox and to enjoy an abundant harvest, you’ll have a mess or two to clean up!" 
Proverbs14:5 An honest witness will never lie, but a deceitful witness lies with every breath." 
Proverbs14:6 The intellectually arrogant seek for wisdom, but they never seem to discover what they claim they’re looking for. For revelation-knowledge flows to the one who hungers for understanding." 
Proverbs14:7 The words of the wise are like weapons of knowledge. If you need wise counsel, stay away from the fool." 
Proverbs14:8 For the wisdom of the wise will keep life on the right track, while the fool only deceives himself and refuses to face reality." 
Proverbs14:9 Fools mock the need for repentance, while the favor of God rests upon all his lovers." 
Proverbs14:10 Don’t expect anyone else to fully understand both the bitterness and the joys of all you experience in your life. 
Proverbs14:11 The household of the wicked is soon torn apart, while the family of the righteous flourishes." 
Proverbs14:12 You can rationalize it all you want and justify the path of error you have chosen, but you’ll find out in the end that you took the road to destruction." 
Proverbs14:13 Superficial laughter can hide a heavy heart, but when the laughter ends, the pain resurfaces." 
Proverbs14:14 Those who turn from the truth get what they deserve, but a good person receives a sweet reward." 
Proverbs14:15 A gullible person will believe anything, but a sensible person will confirm the facts." 
Proverbs14:16 A wise person is careful in all things and turns quickly from evil, while the impetuous fool moves ahead with overconfidence." 
Proverbs14:17 An impulsive person has a short fuse and can ruin everything, but the wise show self-control." 
Proverbs14:18 The naïve demonstrate a lack of wisdom, but the lovers of wisdom are crowned with revelation-knowledge." 
Proverbs14:19 Evil ones will pay tribute to good people and eventually come to be servants of the godly. 
Proverbs14:20 The poor are disliked even by their neighbors, but everyone wants to get close to the wealthy." 
Proverbs14:21 It’s a sin to despise one who is less fortunate than you, but when you are kind to the poor, you will prosper and be blessed." 
Proverbs14:22 Haven’t you noticed how evil schemers always wander astray? But kindness and truth come to those who make plans to be pure in all their ways. 
Proverbs14:23 If you work hard at what you do, great abundance will come to you. But merely talking about getting rich while living to only pursue your pleasures brings you face-to-face with poverty." 
Proverbs14:24 The true net worth of the wise is the wealth that wisdom imparts. But the way of life for the fool is his foolishness. 
Proverbs14:25 Speak the truth and you’ll save souls, but in the spreading of lies treachery thrives." 
Proverbs14:26 Confidence and strength flood the hearts of the lovers of God who live in awe of him, and their devotion provides their children with a place of shelter and security." 
Proverbs14:27 To worship God in wonder and awe opens a fountain of life within you, empowering you to escape death’s domain." 
Proverbs14:28 A king glories in the number of his loyal followers, but a dwindling population spells ruin for any leader." 
Proverbs14:29 When your heart overflows with understanding you’ll be very slow to get angry. But if you have a quick temper, your impatience will be quickly seen by all." 
Proverbs14:30 A tender, tranquil heart will make you healthy, but jealousy can make you sick." 
Proverbs14:31 Insult your Creator, will you? That’s exactly what you do every time you oppress the powerless! Showing kindness to the poor is equal to honoring your maker." 
Proverbs14:32 The wicked are crushed by every calamity, but the righteous find a strong hope in the time of death." 
Proverbs14:33 Wisdom soothes the heart of the one with living-understanding, but the heart of the fool just stockpiles stupidity." 
Proverbs14:34 A nation is exalted by the righteousness of its people, but sin heaps disgrace upon the land." 
Proverbs14:35 A wise and faithful servant receives promotion from the king, but the one who acts disgracefully gets to taste the anger of the king." 
Proverbs15:1 Respond gently when you are confronted and you’ll defuse the rage of another. Responding with sharp, cutting words will only make it worse. Don’t you know that being angry can ruin the testimony of even the wisest of men?" 
Proverbs15:2 When wisdom speaks, understanding becomes attractive. But the words of the fool make their ignorance look laughable." 
Proverbs15:3 The eyes of the Lord are everywhere and he takes note of everything that happens. He watches over his lovers, and he also sees the wickedness of the wicked." 
Proverbs15:4 When you speak healing words, you offer others fruit from the tree of life. But unhealthy, negative words do nothing but crush their hopes." 
Proverbs15:5 You’re stupid to mock the instruction of a father, but welcoming correction will make you brilliant." 
Proverbs15:6 There is prosperity in the house of the righteous, but the house of the wicked is filled with trouble, no matter how much money they have." 
Proverbs15:7 When wisdom speaks, revelation-knowledge is released, but finding true wisdom in the word of a fool is futile." 
Proverbs15:8 It is despicable to the Lord when people use the worship of the Almighty as a cloak for their sin, but every prayer of the righteous is pleasing to his heart." 
Proverbs15:9 The Lord detests the lifestyle of the wicked, but he loves those who pursue purity." 
Proverbs15:10 Severe punishment awaits the one who turns away from the truth, and those who rebel against correction will die." 
Proverbs15:11 Even hell itself holds no secrets from the Lord God, for before his eyes, all is exposed— and so much more the heart of every human being." 
Proverbs15:12 The know-it-all never esteems the one who tries to correct him. He refuses to seek good advice from the wise. 
Proverbs15:13 A cheerful heart puts a smile on your face, but a broken heart leads to depression." 
Proverbs15:14 Lovers of God hunger after truth, but those without understanding feast on foolishness and don’t even realize it." 
Proverbs15:15 Everything seems to go wrong when you feel weak and depressed. But when you choose to be cheerful, every day will bring you more and more joy and fullness." 
Proverbs15:16 It’s much better to live simply, surrounded in holy awe and worship of God, than to have great wealth with a home full of trouble." 
Proverbs15:17 It’s much better to have a meal of vegetables surrounded with love and grace than a steak where there is hate. 
Proverbs15:18 A touchy, hot-tempered man picks a fight, but the calm, patient man knows how to silence strife." 
Proverbs15:19 Nothing seems to work right for the lazy man, but life seems smooth and easy when your heart is virtuous." 
Proverbs15:20 When a son learns wisdom, a father’s heart is glad. But the man who shames his mother is a foolish son." 
Proverbs15:21 The senseless fool treats life like a joke, but the one with living-understanding makes good choices." 
Proverbs15:22 Your plans will fall apart right in front of you if you fail to get good advice. But if you first seek out multiple counselors, you’ll watch your plans succeed." 
Proverbs15:23 Everyone enjoys giving great advice. But how delightful it is to say the right thing at the right time! 
Proverbs15:24 The life-paths of the prudent lift them progressively heavenward, delivering them from the death spirals that keep tugging them downward." 
Proverbs15:25 The Lord champions the widow’s cause, but watch him as he smashes down the houses of the haughty!" 
Proverbs15:26 The Lord detests wicked ways of thinking, but he enjoys lovely and delightful words." 
Proverbs15:27 The one who puts earning money above his family will have trouble at home, but those who refuse to exploit others will live in peace." 
Proverbs15:28 Lovers of God think before they speak, but the careless blurt out wicked words meant to cause harm." 
Proverbs15:29 The Lord doesn’t respond to the wicked, but he’s moved to answer the prayers of the righteous." 
Proverbs15:30 Eyes that focus on what is beautiful bring joy to the heart, and hearing a good report refreshes and strengthens the inner being." 
Proverbs15:31 Accepting constructive criticism opens your heart to the path of life, making you right at home among the wise." 
Proverbs15:32 Refusing constructive criticism shows you have no interest in improving your life, for revelation-insight only comes as you accept correction and the wisdom that it brings." 
Proverbs15:33 The source of revelation-knowledge is found as you fall down in surrender before the Lord. Don’t expect to see Shekinah glory until the Lord sees your sincere humility. 
Proverbs16:1 Go ahead and make all the plans you want, but it’s the Lord who will ultimately direct your steps." 
Proverbs16:2 We are all in love with our own opinions, convinced they’re correct. But the Lord is in the midst of us, testing and probing our every motive." 
Proverbs16:3 Before you do anything, put your trust totally in God and not in yourself. Then every plan you make will succeed." 
Proverbs16:4 The Lord works everything together to accomplish his purpose. Even the wicked are included in his plans— he sets them aside for the day of disaster. 
Proverbs16:5 Yahweh detests all the proud of heart, for pride attracts his punishment— and you can count on that!" 
Proverbs16:6 You can avoid evil through surrendered worship and the fear of God, for the power of his faithful love removes sin’s guilt and grip over you." 
Proverbs16:7 When the Lord is pleased with the decisions you’ve made, he activates grace to turn enemies into friends." 
Proverbs16:8 It is better to have little with a heart that loves justice than to be rich and not have God on your side. 
Proverbs16:9 Within your heart you can make plans for your future, but the Lord chooses the steps you take to get there." 
Proverbs16:10 A king speaks the revelation of truth, so he must be extraordinarily careful in the decrees that he makes." 
Proverbs16:11 The Lord expects you to be fair in every business deal, for he is the one who sets the standards for righteousness." 
Proverbs16:12 Kings and leaders despise wrongdoing, for the true authority to rule and reign is built on a foundation of righteousness." 
Proverbs16:13 Kings and leaders love to hear godly counsel, and they love those who tell them the truth." 
Proverbs16:14 The anger of a king releases the messenger of death, but a wise person will know how to pacify his wrath." 
Proverbs16:15 Life-giving light streams from the presence of a king, and his favor is showered upon those who please him." 
Proverbs16:16 Everyone wants gold, but wisdom’s worth is far greater. Silver is sought after, but a heart of understanding yields a greater return." 
Proverbs16:17 Repenting from evil places you on the highway of holiness. Protect purity and you protect your life. 
Proverbs16:18 Your boast becomes a prophecy of a future failure. The higher you lift yourself up in pride, the harder you’ll fall in disgrace." 
Proverbs16:19 It’s better to be meek and lowly and live among the poor than to live high and mighty among the rich and famous. 
Proverbs16:20 One skilled in business discovers prosperity, but the one who trusts in God is blessed beyond belief!" 
Proverbs16:21 The one with a wise heart is called “discerning,” and speaking sweetly to others makes your teaching even more convincing." 
Proverbs16:22 Wisdom is a deep well of understanding opened up within you as a fountain of life for others, but it’s senseless to try to instruct a fool." 
Proverbs16:23 Winsome words pour from a heart of wisdom, adding value to all you teach." 
Proverbs16:24 Nothing is more appealing than speaking beautiful, life-giving words. For they release sweetness to our souls and inner healing to our spirits." 
Proverbs16:25 Before every person there is a path that seems like the right one to take, but it leads straight to hell!" 
Proverbs16:26 Life motivation comes from the deep longings of the heart, and the passion to see them fulfilled urges you onward." 
Proverbs16:27 A wicked scoundrel wants to dig up dirt on others, only to spread slander and shred their reputation." 
Proverbs16:28 A twisted person spreads rumors; a whispering gossip ruins good friendships. 
Proverbs16:29 A vicious criminal can be persuasive, enticing others to join him as partners in crime, but he leads them all down a despicable path." 
Proverbs16:30 It’s easy to tell when a wicked man is hatching some crooked scheme— it’s written all over his face. His looks betray him as he gives birth to his sin. 
Proverbs16:31 Old age with wisdom will crown you with dignity and honor, for it takes a lifetime of righteousness to acquire it." 
Proverbs16:32 Do you want to be a mighty warrior? It’s better to be known as one who is patient and slow to anger. Do you want to conquer a city? Rule over your temper before you attempt to rule a city. 
Proverbs16:33 We may toss the coin and roll the dice, but God’s will is greater than luck." 
Proverbs17:1 A simple, humble life with peace and quiet is far better than an opulent lifestyle with nothing but quarrels and strife at home." 
Proverbs17:2 A wise, intelligent servant will be honored above a shameful son. He’ll even end up having a portion left to him in his master’s will." 
Proverbs17:3 In the same way that gold and silver are refined by fire, the Lord purifies your heart by the tests and trials of life." 
Proverbs17:4 Those eager to embrace evil listen to slander, for a liar loves to listen to lies." 
Proverbs17:5 Mock the poor, will you? You insult your Creator every time you do! If you make fun of others’ misfortune, you’d better watch out—your punishment is on its way." 
Proverbs17:6 Grandparents have the crowning glory of life: grandchildren! And it’s only proper for children to take pride in their parents. 
Proverbs17:7 It is not proper for a leader to lie and deceive, and don’t expect excellent words to be spoken by a fool." 
Proverbs17:8 Wise instruction is like a costly gem. It turns the impossible into success. 
Proverbs17:9 Love overlooks the mistakes of others, but dwelling on the failures of others devastates friendships." 
Proverbs17:10 One word of correction breaks open a teachable heart, but a fool can be corrected a hundred times and still not know what hit him." 
Proverbs17:11 Rebellion thrives in an evil man, so a messenger of vengeance will be sent to punish him." 
Proverbs17:12 It’s safer to meet a grizzly bear robbed of her cubs than to confront a reckless fool. 
Proverbs17:13 The one who returns evil for good can expect to be treated the same way for the rest of his life. 
Proverbs17:14 Don’t be one who is quick to quarrel, for an argument is hard to stop, and you never know how it will end, so don’t even start down that road!" 
Proverbs17:15 There is nothing God hates more than condemning the one who is innocent and acquitting the one who is guilty. 
Proverbs17:16 Why pay tuition to educate a fool? For he has no intention of acquiring true wisdom. 
Proverbs17:17 A dear friend will love you no matter what, and a family sticks together through all kinds of trouble." 
Proverbs17:18 It’s stupid to run up bills you’ll never be able to pay or to cosign for the loan of your friend. Save yourself the trouble and don’t do either one. 
Proverbs17:19 If you love to argue, then you must be in love with sin. For the one who loves to boast is only asking for trouble." 
Proverbs17:20 The one with a perverse heart never has anything good to say, and the chronic liar tumbles into constant trouble." 
Proverbs17:21 Parents of a numbskull will have many sorrows, for there’s nothing about his lifestyle that will make them proud." 
Proverbs17:22 A joyful, cheerful heart brings healing to both body and soul. But the one whose heart is crushed struggles with sickness and depression." 
Proverbs17:23 When you take a secret bribe, your actions reveal your true character, for you pervert the ways of justice." 
Proverbs17:24 Even the face of a wise man shows his intelligence. But the wandering eyes of a fool will look for wisdom everywhere except right in front of his nose. 
Proverbs17:25 A father grieves over the foolishness of his child, and bitter sorrow fills his mother." 
Proverbs17:26 It’s horrible to persecute a holy lover of God or to strike an honorable man for his integrity! 
Proverbs17:27 Can you bridle your tongue when your heart is under pressure? That’s how you show that you are wise. An understanding heart keeps you cool, calm, and collected, no matter what you’re facing." 
Proverbs17:28 When even a fool bites his tongue he’s considered wise. So shut your mouth when you are provoked— it will make you look smart. 
Proverbs18:1 An unfriendly person isolates himself and seems to care only about his own issues. For his contempt of sound judgment makes him a recluse. 
Proverbs18:2 Senseless people find no pleasure in acquiring true wisdom, for all they want to do is impress you with what they know." 
Proverbs18:3 An ungodly man is always cloaked with disgrace, as dishonor and shame are his companions." 
Proverbs18:4 Words of wisdom are like a fresh, flowing brook— like deep waters that spring forth from within, bubbling up inside the one with understanding." 
Proverbs18:5 It is atrocious when judges show favor to the guilty and deprive the innocent of justice. 
Proverbs18:6 A senseless man jumps headfirst into an argument; he’s just asking for a beating for his reckless words. 
Proverbs18:7 A fool has a big mouth that only gets him into trouble, and he’ll pay the price for what he says." 
Proverbs18:8 The words of a gossip merely reveal the wounds of his own soul, and his slander penetrates into the innermost being." 
Proverbs18:9 The one who is too lazy to look for work is the same one who wastes his life away. 
Proverbs18:10 The character of God is a tower of strength, for the lovers of God delight to run into his heart and be exalted on high." 
Proverbs18:11 The rich, in their conceit, imagine that their wealth is enough to protect them. It becomes their confidence in a day of trouble." 
Proverbs18:12 A man’s heart is the proudest when his downfall is nearest, for he won’t see glory until the Lord sees humility." 
Proverbs18:13 Listen before you speak, for to speak before you’ve heard the facts will bring humiliation." 
Proverbs18:14 The will to live sustains you when you’re sick, but depression crushes courage and leaves you unable to cope." 
Proverbs18:15 The spiritually hungry are always ready to learn more, for their hearts are eager to discover new truths." 
Proverbs18:16 Would you like to meet a very important person? Take a generous gift. It will do wonders to gain entrance into his presence. 
Proverbs18:17 There are two sides to every story. The first one to speak sounds true until you hear the other side and they set the record straight. 
Proverbs18:18 A coin toss resolves a dispute and can put an argument to rest between formidable opponents. 
Proverbs18:19 It is easier to conquer a strong city than to win back a friend whom you’ve offended. Their walls go up, making it nearly impossible to win them back." 
Proverbs18:20 Sharing words of wisdom is satisfying to your inner being. It encourages you to know that you’ve changed someone else’s life. 
Proverbs18:21 Your words are so powerful that they will kill or give life, and the talkative person will reap the consequences." 
Proverbs18:22 When a man finds a wife, he has found a treasure! For she is the gift of God to bring him joy and pleasure. But the one who divorces a good woman loses what is good from his house. To choose an adulteress is both stupid and ungodly." 
Proverbs18:23 The poor plead for help from the rich, but all they get in return is a harsh response." 
Proverbs18:24 Some friendships don’t last for long, but there is one loving friend who is joined to your heart closer than any other!" 
Proverbs19:1 It’s better to be honest, even if it leads to poverty, than to live as a dishonest fool." 
Proverbs19:2 The best way to live is with revelation-knowledge, for without it, you’ll grow impatient and run right into error." 
Proverbs19:3 There are some people who ruin their own lives and then blame it all on God. 
Proverbs19:4 Being wealthy means having lots of “friends,” but the poor can’t keep the ones they have." 
Proverbs19:5 Perjury won’t go unpunished, and liars will get all that they deserve." 
Proverbs19:6 Everyone wants to be close to the rich and famous, but a generous person has all the friends he wants!" 
Proverbs19:7 When a man is poor, even his family has no use for him. How much more will his “friends” avoid him— for though he begs for help, they won’t respond." 
Proverbs19:8 Do yourself a favor and love wisdom. Learn all you can, then watch your life flourish and prosper!" 
Proverbs19:9 Tell lies and you’re going to get caught, and the habitual liar is doomed." 
Proverbs19:10 It doesn’t seem right when you see a fool living in the lap of luxury or a prideful servant ruling over princes. 
Proverbs19:11 An understanding person demonstrates patience, for mercy means holding your tongue. When you are insulted, be quick to forgive and forget it, for you are virtuous when you overlook an offense." 
Proverbs19:12 The rage of a king is like the roar of a lion, but his sweet favor is like a gentle, refreshing rain." 
Proverbs19:13 A rebellious son breaks a father’s heart, and a nagging wife can drive you crazy!" 
Proverbs19:14 You can inherit houses and land from your parents, but a good wife only comes as a gracious gift from God!" 
Proverbs19:15 Go ahead—be lazy and passive. But you’ll go hungry if you live that way. 
Proverbs19:16 Honor God’s holy instructions and life will go well for you. But if you despise his ways and choose your own plans, you will die." 
Proverbs19:17 Every time you give to the poor you make a loan to the Lord. Don’t worry—you’ll be repaid in full for all the good you’ve done. 
Proverbs19:18 Don’t be afraid to discipline your children while they’re still young enough to learn. Don’t indulge your children or be swayed by their protests. 
Proverbs19:19 A hot-tempered man has to pay the price for his anger. If you bail him out once, you’ll do it a dozen times." 
Proverbs19:20 Listen well to wise counsel and be willing to learn from correction so that by the end of your life you’ll be known for your wisdom. 
Proverbs19:21 A person may have many ideas concerning God’s plan for his life, but only the designs of God’s purpose will succeed in the end." 
Proverbs19:22 A man is charming when he displays tender mercies to others. And a lover of God who is poor and promises nothing is better than a rich liar who never keeps his promises. 
Proverbs19:23 When you live a life of abandoned love, surrendered before the awe of God, here’s what you’ll experience: Abundant life. Continual protection. And complete satisfaction!" 
Proverbs19:24 There are some people who pretend they’re hurt— deadbeats who won’t even work to feed themselves. 
Proverbs19:25 If you punish the insolent who don’t know any better, they will learn not to mock. But if you correct a wise man, he will grow even wiser." 
Proverbs19:26 Children who mistreat their parents are an embarrassment to their family and a public disgrace. 
Proverbs19:27 So listen, my child. Don’t reject correction or you will certainly wander from the ways of truth." 
Proverbs19:28 A corrupt witness makes a mockery of justice, for the wicked never play by the rules." 
Proverbs19:29 Judgment is waiting for those who mock the truth, and foolish living invites a beating." 
Proverbs20:1 A drunkard is obnoxious, loud, and argumentative; you’re a fool to get intoxicated with strong drink." 
Proverbs20:2 The rage of a king is like the roar of a lion. Do you really want to go and make him angry? 
Proverbs20:3 A person of honor will put an argument to rest. Only the stupid want to pick a fight. 
Proverbs20:4 If you’re too lazy to plant seed, it’s too bad when you have no harvest on which to feed." 
Proverbs20:5 A man of deep understanding will give good advice, drawing it out from the well within." 
Proverbs20:6 Many will tell you they’re your loyal friends, but who can find one who is truly trustworthy?" 
Proverbs20:7 The lovers of God will walk in integrity, and their children are fortunate to have godly parents as their examples." 
Proverbs20:8 A righteous king sits on his judgment seat. He scatters evil away from his kingdom by his wise discernment. 
Proverbs20:9 Which one of us can truly say, “I am free from sin in my life, for my heart is clean and pure”?" 
Proverbs20:10 Mark it down: God hates it when you demonstrate a double standard— one for “them” and one for “you.” 
Proverbs20:11 All children show what they’re really like by how they act. You can discern their character, whether they are pure or perverse." 
Proverbs20:12 Lovers of God have been given eyes to see and ears to hear from God. 
Proverbs20:13 If you spend all your time sleeping, you’ll grow poor. So wake up, sleepyhead! Don’t sleep on the job. And then there will be plenty of food on your table." 
Proverbs20:14 The buyer says, as he haggles over the price, “That’s junk. It’s worthless!” Then he goes out and brags, “Look at the great bargain I got!”" 
Proverbs20:15 You may have an abundance of wealth, piles of gold and jewels, but there is something of far greater worth: speaking revelation-words of knowledge." 
Proverbs20:16 Anyone stupid enough to guarantee a loan for a stranger deserves to have his property held as security. 
Proverbs20:17 What you obtain dishonestly may seem sweet at first, but sooner or later you’ll live to regret it." 
Proverbs20:18 If you solicit good advice, then your plans will succeed. So don’t charge into battle without wisdom, for wars are won by skillful strategy." 
Proverbs20:19 A blabbermouth will reveal your secrets, so stay away from people who can’t keep their mouths shut." 
Proverbs20:20 If you despise your father or mother, your life will flicker out like a lamp, extinguished into the deepest darkness." 
Proverbs20:21 If an inheritance is gained too early in life, it will not be blessed in the end." 
Proverbs20:22 Don’t ever say, “I’m going to get even with them if it’s the last thing I do!” Wrap God’s grace around your heart and he will be the one to vindicate you." 
Proverbs20:23 The Lord hates double standards— that’s hypocrisy at its worst! 
Proverbs20:24 It is the Lord who directs your life, for each step you take is ordained by God to bring you closer to your destiny. So much of your life, then, remains a mystery!" 
Proverbs20:25 Be careful in making a rash promise before God, or you may be trapped by your vow and live to regret it." 
Proverbs20:26 A wise king is able to discern corruption and remove wickedness from his kingdom. 
Proverbs20:27 The spirit God breathed into man is like a living lamp, a shining light searching into the innermost chamber of our being." 
Proverbs20:28 Good leadership is built on love and truth, for kindness and integrity are what keep leaders in their position of trust." 
Proverbs20:29 We admire the young for their strength and beauty, but the dignity of the old is their wisdom." 
Proverbs20:30 When you are punished severely, you learn your lesson well— for painful experiences do wonders to change your life." 
Proverbs21:1 It’s as easy for God to steer a king’s heart for his purposes as it is for him to direct the course of a stream. 
Proverbs21:2 We may think we’re right all the time, but God thoroughly examines our motives." 
Proverbs21:3 It pleases God more when we demonstrate godliness and justice than when we merely offer him a sacrifice. 
Proverbs21:4 Arrogance, superiority, and pride are the fruits of sin." 
Proverbs21:5 Brilliant ideas pay off and bring you prosperity, but making hasty, impatient decisions will only lead to financial loss." 
Proverbs21:6 You can make a fortune dishonestly, but your crime will hold you in the snares of death!" 
Proverbs21:7 Violent rebels don’t have a chance, for their rejection of truth and their love of evil will drag them deeper into darkness." 
Proverbs21:8 You can discern that a person is guilty by his devious actions and the innocence of a person by his honest, sincere ways." 
Proverbs21:9 It’s better to live all alone in a rickety shack than to share a castle with a crabby spouse! 
Proverbs21:10 The wicked always crave what is evil; they’ll show no mercy and get no mercy. 
Proverbs21:11 Senseless people learn their lessons the hard way, but the wise are teachable." 
Proverbs21:12 A godly, righteous person has the ability to bring the light of instruction to the wicked even though he despises what the wicked do." 
Proverbs21:13 If you close your heart to the cries of the poor, then I’ll close my ears when you cry out to me!" 
Proverbs21:14 Try giving a secret gift to the one who is angry with you and watch his anger disappear. A kind, generous gift goes a long way to soothe the anger of one who is livid." 
Proverbs21:15 When justice is served, the lovers of God celebrate and rejoice, but the wicked begin to panic." 
Proverbs21:16 When you forsake the ways of wisdom, you will wander into the realm of dark spirits." 
Proverbs21:17 To love pleasure for pleasure’s sake will introduce you to poverty. Indulging in a life of luxury will never make you wealthy. 
Proverbs21:18 The wicked bring on themselves the very suffering they planned for others, for their treachery comes back to haunt them." 
Proverbs21:19 It’s better to live in a hut in the wilderness than with a crabby, scolding spouse!" 
Proverbs21:20 In wisdom’s house you’ll find delightful treasures and the oil of the Holy Spirit. But the stupid squander what they’ve been given. 
Proverbs21:21 The lovers of God who chase after righteousness will find all their dreams come true: an abundant life drenched with favor and a fountain that overflows with satisfaction. 
Proverbs21:22 A warrior filled with wisdom ascends into the high place and releases breakthrough, bringing down the strongholds of the mighty." 
Proverbs21:23 Watch your words and be careful what you say, and you’ll be surprised by how few troubles you’ll have." 
Proverbs21:24 An arrogant man is inflated with pride— nothing but a snooty scoffer in love with his own opinion. Mr. Mocker is his name! 
Proverbs21:25 Taking the easy way out is the habit of a lazy man, and it will be his downfall. All day long he thinks about all the things that he craves, for he hasn’t learned the secret that the generous man has learned: extravagant giving never leads to poverty." 
Proverbs21:26  
Proverbs21:27 To bring an offering to God with an ulterior motive is detestable, for it amounts to nothing but hypocrisy." 
Proverbs21:28 No one believes a notorious liar, but the guarded words of an honest man stand the test of time." 
Proverbs21:29 The wicked are shameless and stubborn, but the lovers of God have a holy confidence." 
Proverbs21:30 All your brilliant wisdom and clever insight will be of no help at all if the Lord is against you. 
Proverbs21:31 You can do your best to prepare for the battle, but ultimate victory comes from the Lord God." 
Proverbs22:1 A beautiful reputation is more to be desired than great riches, and to be esteemed by others is more honorable than to own immense investments." 
Proverbs22:2 The rich and the poor have one thing in common: the Lord God created each one. 
Proverbs22:3 A prudent person with insight foresees danger coming and prepares himself for it. But the senseless rush blindly forward and suffer the consequences. 
Proverbs22:4 Laying your life down in tender surrender before the Lord will bring life, prosperity, and honor as your reward." 
Proverbs22:5 Twisted and perverse lives are surrounded by demonic influence. If you value your soul, stay far away from them." 
Proverbs22:6 Dedicate your children to God and point them in the way that they should go, and the values they’ve learned from you will be with them for life." 
Proverbs22:7 If you borrow money with interest, you’ll end up serving the interests of your creditors, for the rich rule over the poor." 
Proverbs22:8 Sin is a seed that brings a harvest; you’ll reap a heap of trouble with every seed you plant. For your investment in sins pays a full return— the full punishment you deserve! 
Proverbs22:9 When you are generous to the poor, you are enriched with blessings in return." 
Proverbs22:10 Say goodbye to a troublemaker and you’ll say goodbye to quarrels, strife, tension, and arguments, for a troublemaker traffics in shame." 
Proverbs22:11 The Lord loves those whose hearts are holy, and he is the friend of those whose ways are pure." 
Proverbs22:12 God passionately watches over his deep reservoir of revelation-knowledge, but he subverts the lies of those who pervert the truth." 
Proverbs22:13 A slacker always has an excuse for not working— like “I can’t go to work. There’s a lion outside! And murderers too! ” 
Proverbs22:14 Sex with an adulteress is like falling into the abyss. Those under God’s curse jump right in to their own destruction. 
Proverbs22:15 Although rebellion is woven into a young man’s heart, tough discipline can make him into a man." 
Proverbs22:16 There are two kinds of people headed toward poverty: those who exploit the poor and those who bribe the rich. 
Proverbs22:17 Listen carefully and open your heart. Drink in the wise revelation that I impart. 
Proverbs22:18 You’ll become winsome and wise when you treasure the beauty of my words. And always be prepared to share them at the appropriate time. 
Proverbs22:19 For I’m releasing these words to you this day, yes, even to you, so that your living hope will be found in God alone, for he is the only one who is always true." 
Proverbs22:20 Pay attention to these excellent sayings of three-fold things. For within my words you will discover true and reliable revelation. They will give you serenity so that you can reveal the truth of the word of the one who sends you. 
Proverbs22:21  
Proverbs22:22 Never oppress the poor or pass laws with the motive of crushing the weak. 
Proverbs22:23 For the Lord will rise to plead their case and humiliate the one who humiliates the poor. 
Proverbs22:24 Walk away from an angry man or you’ll embrace a snare in your soul by becoming bad-tempered just like him. 
Proverbs22:25  
Proverbs22:26 Why would you ever guarantee a loan for someone else or promise to be responsible for someone’s debts? 
Proverbs22:27 For if you fail to pay you could lose your shirt! 
Proverbs22:28 The previous generation has set boundaries in place. Don’t you dare move them just to benefit yourself. 
Proverbs22:29 If you are uniquely gifted in your work, you will rise and be promoted. You won’t be held back— you’ll stand before kings!" 
Proverbs23:1 When you’ve been invited to dine with a very important leader, consider your manners and keep in mind whom you’re with." 
Proverbs23:2 Be careful to curb your appetite and catch yourself before you fall into the trap of wanting all you see. 
Proverbs23:3 Don’t crave their delicacies, for they may have another motive in having you sit at their table." 
Proverbs23:4 Don’t compare yourself to the rich. Surrender your selfish ambition and evaluate them properly. 
Proverbs23:5 For no sooner do you start counting your wealth than it sprouts wings and flies away like an eagle in the sky— here today, gone tomorrow!" 
Proverbs23:6 Be sensible when you dine with a stingy man and don’t eat more than you should. 
Proverbs23:7 For as he thinks within himself, so is he. He will grudgingly say, “Go ahead and eat all you want,” but in his heart he resents the fact that he has to pay for your meal." 
Proverbs23:8 You’ll be sorry you ate anything at all, and all your compliments will be wasted." 
Proverbs23:9 A rebellious fool will despise your wise advice, so don’t even waste your time—save your breath!" 
Proverbs23:10 Never move a long-standing boundary line or attempt to take land that belongs to the fatherless. 
Proverbs23:11 For they have a mighty protector, a loving redeemer, who watches over them, and he will stand up for their cause." 
Proverbs23:12 Pay close attention to the teaching that corrects you, and open your heart to every word of instruction." 
Proverbs23:13 Don’t withhold appropriate discipline from your child. Go ahead and punish him when he needs it. Don’t worry—it won’t kill him! 
Proverbs23:14 A good spanking could be the very thing that teaches him a lifelong lesson! 
Proverbs23:15 My beloved child, when your heart is full of wisdom, my heart is full of gladness." 
Proverbs23:16 And when you speak anointed words, we are speaking mouth to mouth!" 
Proverbs23:17 Don’t allow the actions of evil men to cause you to burn with anger. Instead, burn with unrelenting passion as you worship God in holy awe." 
Proverbs23:18 Your future is bright and filled with a living hope that will never fade away. 
Proverbs23:19 As you listen to me, my beloved child, you will grow in wisdom and your heart will be drawn into understanding, which will empower you to make right decisions." 
Proverbs23:20 Don’t live in the excesses of drunkenness or gluttony, or waste your life away by partying all the time," 
Proverbs23:21 because drunkards and gluttons sleep their lives away and end up broke! 
Proverbs23:22 Give respect to your father and mother, for without them you wouldn’t even be here. And don’t neglect them when they grow old." 
Proverbs23:23 Embrace the truth and hold it close. Don’t let go of wisdom, instruction, and life-giving understanding." 
Proverbs23:24 When a father observes his child living in godliness, he is ecstatic with joy—nothing makes him prouder!" 
Proverbs23:25 So may your father’s heart burst with joy and your mother’s soul be filled with gladness because of you. 
Proverbs23:26 My son, give me your heart and embrace fully what I’m about to tell you." 
Proverbs23:27 Stay far away from prostitutes and you’ll stay far away from the pit of destruction. For sleeping with a promiscuous woman is like falling into a trap that you’ll never be able to escape! 
Proverbs23:28 Like a robber hiding in the shadows she’s waiting to claim another victim— another husband unfaithful to his wife. 
Proverbs23:29 Who has anguish? Who has bitter sorrow? Who constantly complains and argues? Who stumbles and falls and hurts himself? Who’s the one with bloodshot eyes? 
Proverbs23:30 It’s the one who drinks too much and is always looking for a brew. Make sure it’s never you! 
Proverbs23:31 And don’t be drunk with wine but be known as one who enjoys the company of the lovers of God," 
Proverbs23:32 for drunkenness brings the sting of a serpent, like the fangs of a viper spreading poison into your soul." 
Proverbs23:33 It will make you hallucinate, mumble, and speak words that are perverse." 
Proverbs23:34 You’ll be like a seasick sailor being tossed to and fro, dizzy and out of your mind." 
Proverbs23:35 You’ll awake only to say, “What hit me? I feel like I’ve been run over by a truck!” Yet off you’ll go, looking for another drink!" 
Proverbs24:1 Don’t envy the wealth of the wicked or crave their company. 
Proverbs24:2 For they’re obsessed with causing trouble and their conversations are corrupt. 
Proverbs24:3 Wise people are builders — they build families, businesses, communities. And through intelligence and insight their enterprises are established and endure." 
Proverbs24:4 Because of their skilled leadership, the hearts of people are filled with the treasures of wisdom and the pleasures of spiritual wealth." 
Proverbs24:5 Wisdom can make anyone into a mighty warrior, and revelation-knowledge increases strength." 
Proverbs24:6 Wise strategy is necessary to wage war, and with many astute advisers you’ll see the path to victory more clearly." 
Proverbs24:7 Wisdom is a treasure too lofty for a quarreling fool — he’ll have nothing to say when leaders gather together. 
Proverbs24:8 There is one who makes plans to do evil— Master Schemer is his name. 
Proverbs24:9 If you plan to do evil, it’s as wrong as doing it. And everyone detests a troublemaker." 
Proverbs24:10 If you faint when under pressure, you have need of courage." 
Proverbs24:11 Go and rescue the perishing! Be their savior! Why would you stand back and watch them stagger to their death? 
Proverbs24:12 And why would you say, “But it’s none of my business”? The one who knows you completely and judges your every motive is also the keeper of souls—and not just yours! He sees through your excuses and holds you responsible for failing to help those whose lives are threatened." 
Proverbs24:13 Revelation-knowledge is a delicacy, sweet like flowing honey that melts in your mouth. Eat as much of it as you can, my friend!" 
Proverbs24:14 For then you will perceive what is true wisdom, your future will be bright, and this hope living within you will never disappoint you." 
Proverbs24:15 Listen up, you wicked, irreverent ones— don’t harass the lovers of God and don’t invade their resting place." 
Proverbs24:16 For the lovers of God may suffer adversity and stumble seven times, but they will continue to rise over and over again. But the unrighteous are brought down by just one calamity and will never be able to rise again." 
Proverbs24:17 Never gloat when your enemy meets disaster, and don’t be quick to rejoice if he falls." 
Proverbs24:18 For the Lord, who sees your heart, will be displeased with you and will pity your foe." 
Proverbs24:19 Don’t be angrily offended over evildoers or be agitated by them. 
Proverbs24:20 For the wicked have no life and no future— their light of life will die out. 
Proverbs24:21 My child, stand in awe of Yahweh! Give counsel to others, but don’t mingle with those who are rebellious." 
Proverbs24:22 For sudden destruction will fall upon them and their lives will be ruined in a moment. And who knows what retribution they will face! 
Proverbs24:23 Those enlightened with wisdom have spoken these proverbs: Judgment must be impartial, for it is always wrong to be swayed by a person’s status." 
Proverbs24:24 If you say to the guilty, “You are innocent,” the nation will curse you and the people will revile you." 
Proverbs24:25 But when you convict the guilty, the people will thank you and reward you with favor." 
Proverbs24:26 Speaking honestly is a sign of true friendship. 
Proverbs24:27 Go ahead, build your career and give yourself to your work. But if you put me first, you’ll see your family built up!" 
Proverbs24:28 Why would you be a false accuser and slander with your words? 
Proverbs24:29 Don’t ever spitefully say, “I’ll get even with him! I’ll do to him what he did to me!”" 
Proverbs24:30 One day I passed by the field of a lazy man, and I noticed the vineyards of a slacker. I observed nothing but thorns, weeds, and broken-down walls." 
Proverbs24:31  
Proverbs24:32 So I considered their lack of wisdom, and I pondered the lessons I could learn from this:" 
Proverbs24:33 Professional work habits prevent poverty from becoming your permanent business partner. And: If you put off until tomorrow the work you could do today, tomorrow never seems to come." 
Proverbs24:34  
Proverbs25:1 Solomon’s proverbs, published by the scribes of King Hezekiah:" 
Proverbs25:2 God conceals the revelation of his word in the hiding place of his glory. But the honor of kings is revealed by how they thoroughly search out the deeper meaning of all that God says. 
Proverbs25:3 The heart of a king is full of understanding, like the heavens are high and the ocean is deep." 
Proverbs25:4 If you burn away the impurities from silver, a sterling vessel will emerge from the fire." 
Proverbs25:5 And if you purge corruption from the kingdom, a king’s reign will be established in righteousness." 
Proverbs25:6 Don’t boast in the presence of a king or promote yourself by taking a seat at the head table and pretending that you’re someone important. 
Proverbs25:7 For it is better for the king to say to you, “Come, you should sit at the head table,” than for him to say in front of everyone, “Please get up and move— you’re sitting in the place of the prince.”" 
Proverbs25:8 Don’t be hasty to file a lawsuit. By starting something you wish you hadn’t, you could be humiliated when you lose your case." 
Proverbs25:9 Don’t reveal another person’s secret just to prove a point in an argument, or you could be accused of being a gossip" 
Proverbs25:10 and gain a reputation for being one who betrays the confidence of a friend. 
Proverbs25:11 Winsome words spoken at just the right time are as appealing as apples gilded in gold surrounded with silver. 
Proverbs25:12 When you humbly receive wise correction, it adorns your life with beauty and makes you a better person." 
Proverbs25:13 A reliable, trustworthy messenger refreshes the heart of his master, like a gentle snowfall at harvest time." 
Proverbs25:14 Clouds that carry no water and a wind that brings no refreshing rain — that’s what you’re like when you boast of a gift that you don’t have. 
Proverbs25:15 Use patience and kindness when you want to persuade leaders and watch them change their minds right in front of you. For your gentle wisdom will quell the strongest resistance. 
Proverbs25:16 When you discover something sweet, don’t overindulge and eat more than you need, for excess in anything can make you sick of even a good thing." 
Proverbs25:17 Don’t wear out your welcome by staying too long at the home of your friends, or they may get fed up with always having you there and wish you hadn’t come." 
Proverbs25:18 Lying about and slandering people are as bad as hitting them with a club, or wounding them with an arrow, or stabbing them with a sword." 
Proverbs25:19 You can’t depend on an unreliable person when you really need help. It can be compared to biting down on an abscessed tooth or walking with a sprained ankle. 
Proverbs25:20 When you sing a song of joy to someone suffering in the deepest grief and heartache, it can be compared to disrobing in the middle of a blizzard or rubbing salt in a wound." 
Proverbs25:21 Is your enemy hungry? Buy him lunch. Win him over with your kindness. 
Proverbs25:22 Your surprising generosity will awaken his conscience and God will reward you with favor. 
Proverbs25:23 As the north wind brings a storm, saying things you shouldn’t brings a storm to any relationship." 
Proverbs25:24 It’s better to live all alone in a rundown shack than to share a castle with a crabby spouse! 
Proverbs25:25 Like a drink of cool water refreshes a weary, thirsty soul, so hearing good news revives the spirit." 
Proverbs25:26 When a lover of God gives in and compromises with wickedness, it can be compared to contaminating a stream with sewage or polluting a fountain." 
Proverbs25:27 It’s good to eat sweet things, but you can take too much. It’s good to be honored, but to seek words of praise is not honor at all." 
Proverbs25:28 If you live without restraint and are unable to control your temper, you’re as helpless as a city with broken-down defenses, open to attack." 
Proverbs26:1 It is totally out of place to promote and honor a fool, just like it’s out of place to have snow in the summer and rain at harvest time." 
Proverbs26:2 An undeserved curse will be powerless to harm you. It may flutter over you like a bird, but it will find no place to land." 
Proverbs26:3 Guide a horse with a whip, direct a donkey with a bridle, and lead a rebellious fool with a beating on his backside!" 
Proverbs26:4 Don’t respond to the words of a fool with more foolish words, or you will become as foolish as he is!" 
Proverbs26:5 Instead, if you’re asked a silly question, answer it with words of wisdom so the fool doesn’t think he’s so clever." 
Proverbs26:6 If you choose a fool to represent you, you’re asking for trouble. It will be as bad for you as cutting off your own feet!" 
Proverbs26:7 You can never trust the words of a fool, just like a crippled man can’t trust his legs to support him." 
Proverbs26:8 Give honor to a fool and watch it backfire— like a stone tied to a slingshot. 
Proverbs26:9 The statements of a fool will hurt others like a thorn bush brandished by a drunk. 
Proverbs26:10 Like a reckless archer shooting arrows at random is the impatient employer who hires just any fool who comes along— someone’s going to get hurt! 
Proverbs26:11 Fools are famous for repeating their errors, like dogs are known to return to their vomit." 
Proverbs26:12 There’s only one thing worse than a fool, and that’s the smug, conceited man always in love with his own opinions." 
Proverbs26:13 The lazy loafer says, “I can’t go out and look for a job— there may be a lion out there roaming wild in the streets!”" 
Proverbs26:14 As a door is hinged to the wall, so the lazy man keeps turning over, hinged to his bed!" 
Proverbs26:15 There are some people so lazy they won’t even work to feed themselves. 
Proverbs26:16 A self-righteous person is convinced he’s smarter than seven wise counselors who tell him the truth. 
Proverbs26:17 It’s better to grab a stray dog by its ears than to meddle in a quarrel that’s none of your business. 
Proverbs26:18 The one who is caught lying to his friend, who says, “I didn’t mean it, I was only joking,” can be compared to a madman randomly shooting off deadly weapons." 
Proverbs26:19  
Proverbs26:20 It takes fuel to have a fire— a fire dies down when you run out of fuel. So quarrels disappear when the gossip ends. 
Proverbs26:21 Add fuel to the fire and the blaze goes on. So add an argumentative man to the mix, and you’ll keep strife alive." 
Proverbs26:22 Gossip is so delicious, and how we love to swallow it! For slander is easily absorbed into our innermost being." 
Proverbs26:23 Smooth talk can hide a corrupt heart just like a pretty glaze covers a cheap clay pot. 
Proverbs26:24 Kind words can be a cover to conceal hatred of others, for hypocrisy loves to hide behind flattery." 
Proverbs26:25 So don’t be drawn in by the hypocrite, for his gracious speech is a charade, nothing but a masquerade covering his hatred and evil on parade." 
Proverbs26:26 Don’t worry—he can’t keep the mask on for long. One day his hypocrisy will be exposed before all the world. 
Proverbs26:27 Go ahead, set a trap for others— and then watch as it snaps back on you! Start a landslide and you’ll be the one who gets crushed." 
Proverbs26:28 Hatred is the root of slander and insecurity the root of flattery. 
Proverbs27:1 Never brag about the plans you have for tomorrow, for you don’t have a clue what tomorrow may bring to you." 
Proverbs27:2 Let someone else honor you for your accomplishments, for self-praise is never appropriate." 
Proverbs27:3 It’s easier to carry a heavy boulder and a ton of sand than to be provoked by a fool and have to carry that burden! 
Proverbs27:4 The rage and anger of others can be overwhelming, but it’s nothing compared to jealousy’s fire." 
Proverbs27:5 It’s better to be corrected openly if it stems from hidden love. 
Proverbs27:6 You can trust a friend who wounds you with his honesty, but your enemy’s pretended flattery comes from insincerity." 
Proverbs27:7 When your soul is full, you turn down even the sweetest honey. But when your soul is starving, every bitter thing becomes sweet." 
Proverbs27:8 Like a bird that has fallen from its nest is the one who is dislodged from his home. 
Proverbs27:9 Sweet friendships refresh the soul and awaken our hearts with joy, for good friends are like the anointing oil that yields the fragrant incense of God’s presence." 
Proverbs27:10 So never give up on a friend or abandon a friend of your father— for in the day of your brokenness you won’t have to run to a relative for help. A friend nearby is better than a relative far away. 
Proverbs27:11 My son, when you walk in wisdom, my heart is filled with gladness, for the way you live is proof that I’ve not taught you in vain." 
Proverbs27:12 A wise, shrewd person discerns the danger ahead and prepares himself, but the naïve simpleton never looks ahead and suffers the consequences." 
Proverbs27:13 Cosign for one you barely know and you will pay a great price! Anyone stupid enough to guarantee the loan of another deserves to have his property seized in payment. 
Proverbs27:14 Do you think you’re blessing your neighbors when you sing at the top of your lungs early in the morning? Don’t be fooled— they’ll curse you for doing it! 
Proverbs27:15 An endless drip, drip, drip, from a leaky faucet and the words of a cranky, nagging wife have the same effect." 
Proverbs27:16 Can you stop the north wind from blowing or grasp a handful of oil? That’s easier than to stop her from complaining. 
Proverbs27:17 It takes a grinding wheel to sharpen a blade, and so one person sharpens the character of another." 
Proverbs27:18 Tend an orchard and you’ll have fruit to eat. Serve the Master’s interests and you’ll receive honor that’s sweet. 
Proverbs27:19 Just as no two faces are exactly alike, so every heart is different." 
Proverbs27:20 Death and destruction are never filled, and the desires of men’s hearts are insatiable." 
Proverbs27:21 Fire is the way to test the purity of silver and gold, but the character of a man is tested by giving him a measure of fame." 
Proverbs27:22 You can beat a fool half to death and still never beat the foolishness out of him. 
Proverbs27:23 A shepherd should pay close attention to the faces of his flock and hold close to his heart the condition of those he cares for. 
Proverbs27:24 A man’s strength, power, and riches will one day fade away; not even nations endure forever." 
Proverbs27:25 Take care of your responsibilities and be diligent in your business and you will have more than enough— an abundance of food, clothing, and plenty for your household." 
Proverbs27:26  
Proverbs27:27  
Proverbs28:1 Guilty criminals experience paranoia even though no one threatens them. But the innocent lovers of God, because of righteousness, will have the boldness of a young, ferocious lion!" 
Proverbs28:2 A rebellious nation is thrown into chaos, but leaders anointed with wisdom will restore law and order." 
Proverbs28:3 When a pauper oppresses the destitute, it’s like a flash flood that sweeps away their last hope." 
Proverbs28:4 Those who turn their backs on what they know is right will no longer be able to tell right from wrong. But those who love the truth strengthen their souls. 
Proverbs28:5 Justice never makes sense to men devoted to darkness, but those tenderly devoted to the Lord can understand justice perfectly." 
Proverbs28:6 It’s more respectable to be poor and pure than rich and perverse. 
Proverbs28:7 To be obedient to what you’ve been taught proves you’re an honorable child, but to socialize with the lawless brings shame to your parents." 
Proverbs28:8 Go ahead and get rich on the backs of the poor, but all the wealth you gather will one day be given to those who are kind to the needy." 
Proverbs28:9 If you close your heart and refuse to listen to God’s instruction, even your prayer will be despised." 
Proverbs28:10 Those who tempt the lovers of God with an evil scheme will fall into their own traps. But the innocent who resist temptation will experience reward. 
Proverbs28:11 The wealthy in their conceit presume to be wise, but a poor person with discernment can see right through them." 
Proverbs28:12 The triumphant joy of God’s lovers releases great glory. But when the wicked rise to power, everyone goes into hiding." 
Proverbs28:13 If you cover up your sin you’ll never do well. But if you confess your sins and forsake them, you will be kissed by mercy." 
Proverbs28:14 Overjoyed is the one who with tender heart trembles before God, but the stubborn, unyielding heart will experience even greater evil." 
Proverbs28:15 Ruthless rulers can only be compared to raging lions and roaming bears. 
Proverbs28:15 Ruthless rulers can only be compared to raging lions and roaming bears. 
Proverbs28:16 Abusive leaders fail to employ wisdom, but leaders who despise corruption will enjoy a long and full life." 
Proverbs28:17 A murderer’s conscience will torment him— a fugitive haunted by guilt all the way to the grave with no one to support him. 
Proverbs28:18 The pure will be rescued from failure, but the perverse will suddenly fall into ruin." 
Proverbs28:19 Work hard and you’ll have all you desire, but chase a fantasy and you could end up with nothing." 
Proverbs28:20 Life’s blessings drench the honest and faithful person, but punishment rains down upon the greedy and dishonest." 
Proverbs28:21 Giving favoritism to the rich and powerful is disgusting, and this is done by the type of judge who would betray a man for a bribe." 
Proverbs28:22 A greedy man is in a race to get rich, but he forgets that he could lose what’s most important and end up with nothing." 
Proverbs28:23 If you correct someone with constructive criticism, in the end he will appreciate it more than flattery." 
Proverbs28:24 A person who would reject his own parents and say, “What’s wrong with that?” is as bad as a murderer." 
Proverbs28:25 To make rash, hasty decisions shows that you are not trusting the Lord. But when you rely totally on God, you will still act carefully and prudently." 
Proverbs28:26 Self-confident know-it-alls will prove to be fools. But when you lean on the wisdom from above, you will have a way to escape the troubles of your own making." 
Proverbs28:27 You will never go without if you give to the poor. But if you’re heartless, stingy, and selfish, you invite curses upon yourself." 
Proverbs28:28 When wicked leaders rise to power, good people go into hiding. But when they fall from power, the godly take their place." 
Proverbs29:1 Stubborn people who repeatedly refuse to accept correction will suddenly be broken and never recover. 
Proverbs29:2 Everyone rejoices when the lovers of God flourish, but the people groan when the wicked rise to power." 
Proverbs29:3 When you love wisdom, your father is overjoyed. But when you associate with prostitutes, you waste your wealth in exchange for disgrace." 
Proverbs29:4 A godly leader who values justice is a great strength and example to the people. But the one who sells his influence for money tears down what is right. 
Proverbs29:5 Flattery can often be used as a trap to hide ulterior motives and take advantage of you. 
Proverbs29:6 The wicked always have a trap laid for others, but the lovers of God escape as they sing and shout in joyous triumph!" 
Proverbs29:7 God’s righteous people will pour themselves out for the poor, but the ungodly make no attempt to understand or help the needy." 
Proverbs29:8 Arrogant cynics love to pick fights, but the humble and wise love to pursue peace." 
Proverbs29:9 There’s no use arguing with a fool, for his ranting and raving prevent you from making a case and settling the argument in a calm way." 
Proverbs29:10 Violent men hate those with integrity, but the lovers of God esteem those who are holy." 
Proverbs29:11 You can recognize fools by the way they give full vent to their rage and let their words fly! But the wise bite their tongues and hold back all they could say. 
Proverbs29:12 When leaders listen to false accusations, their associates become scoundrels." 
Proverbs29:13 Poor people and their oppressors have only one thing in common— God made them both. 
Proverbs29:14 The best insurance for a leader’s longevity is to demonstrate justice for the poor. 
Proverbs29:15 Experiencing many corrections and rebukes will make you wise. But if left to your own ways, you’ll bring disgrace to your parents." 
Proverbs29:16 When the wicked are in power, lawlessness abounds. But the patient lovers of God will one day watch in triumph as their stronghold topples!" 
Proverbs29:17 Correct your child and one day you’ll find he has changed and will bring you great delight. 
Proverbs29:18 When there is no clear prophetic vision, people quickly wander astray. But when you follow the revelation of the Word, heaven’s bliss fills your soul." 
Proverbs29:19 A stubborn servant can’t be corrected by words alone. For even if he understands, he pays no attention to you." 
Proverbs29:20 There’s only one kind of person who is worse than a fool: the impetuous one who speaks without thinking first. 
Proverbs29:21 If you pamper your servants, don’t be surprised when they expect to be treated as sons." 
Proverbs29:22 The source of strife is found in an angry heart, for sin surrounds the life of a furious man." 
Proverbs29:23 Lift yourself up with pride and you will soon be brought low, but a meek and humble spirit will add to your honor." 
Proverbs29:24 You are your own worst enemy when you partner with a thief, for a curse of guilt will come upon you when you fail to report a crime." 
Proverbs29:25 Fear and intimidation is a trap that holds you back. But when you place your confidence in the Lord, you will be seated in the high place." 
Proverbs29:26 Everyone curries favor with leaders. But God is the judge, and justice comes from him." 
Proverbs29:27 The wicked hate those who live a godly life, but the righteous hate injustice wherever it’s found." 
Proverbs30:1 These are the collected sayings of the prophet Agur, Jakeh’s son — the amazing revelation he imparted to Ithiel and Ukal." 
Proverbs30:2 God, I’m so weary and worn out, I feel more like a beast than a man. I was made in your image, but I lack understanding." 
Proverbs30:3 I’ve yet to learn the wisdom that comes from the full and intimate knowledge of you, the Holy One." 
Proverbs30:4 Who is it that travels back and forth from the heavenly realm to the earth? Who controls the wind as it blows and holds it in his fists? Who tucks the rain into the cloak of his clouds? Who stretches out the skyline from one vista to the other? What is his name? And what is the name of his Son? Who can tell me? 
Proverbs30:5 Every promise from the faithful God is pure and proves to be true. He is a wraparound shield of protection for all his lovers who run to hide in him. 
Proverbs30:6 Never add to his words, or he will have to rebuke you and prove that you’re a liar." 
Proverbs30:7 God, there are two things I’m asking you for before I die, only two:" 
Proverbs30:8 Empty out of my heart everything that is false— every lie, and every crooked thing. And give me neither undue poverty nor undue wealth— but rather, feed my soul with the measure of prosperity that pleases you." 
Proverbs30:9 May my satisfaction be found in you. Don’t let me be so rich that I don’t need you or so poor that I have to resort to dishonesty just to make ends meet. Then my life will never detract from bringing glory to your name. 
Proverbs30:10 Never defame a servant before his master, for you will be the guilty one and a curse will come upon you." 
Proverbs30:11 There is a generation rising that curses their fathers and speaks evil of their mothers. 
Proverbs30:12 There is a generation rising that considers themselves to be pure in their own eyes, yet they are morally filthy, unwashed, and unclean." 
Proverbs30:13 There is a generation rising that is so filled with pride, they think they are superior and look down on others." 
Proverbs30:14 There is a generation rising that uses their words like swords to cut and slash those who are different. They would devour the poor, the needy, and the afflicted from off the face of the earth!" 
Proverbs30:15 There are three words to describe the greedy: “Give me more!” There are some things that are never satisfied. Forever craving more, they’re unable to say, “That’s enough!” Here are four:" 
Proverbs30:16 the grave, yawning for another victim, the barren womb, ever wanting a child, thirsty soil, ever longing for rain, and a raging fire, devouring its fuel. They’re all insatiable." 
Proverbs30:17 The eye that mocks his father and dishonors his elderly mother deserves to be plucked out by the ravens of the valley and fed to the young vultures! 
Proverbs30:18 There are four marvelous mysteries that are too amazing to unravel — who could fully explain them? 
Proverbs30:19 The way an eagle flies in the sky, the way a snake glides on a boulder, the path of a ship as it passes through the sea, and the way a bridegroom falls in love with his bride." 
Proverbs30:20 Here is the deceptive way of the adulterous woman: she takes what she wants and then says, “I’ve done nothing wrong.”" 
Proverbs30:21 There are four intolerable events that are simply unbearable to observe: 
Proverbs30:22 when an unfaithful servant becomes a ruler, when a scoundrel comes into great wealth," 
Proverbs30:23 when an unfaithful woman marries a good man, and when a mistress replaces a faithful wife." 
Proverbs30:24 The earth has four creatures that are very small but very wise: 
Proverbs30:25 The feeble ant has little strength, yet look how it diligently gathers its food in the summer to last throughout the winter." 
Proverbs30:26 The delicate rock-badger isn’t all that strong, yet look how it makes a secure home, nestled in the rocks." 
Proverbs30:27 The locusts have no king to lead them, yet they cooperate as they move forward by bands." 
Proverbs30:28 And the small lizard is easy to catch as it clings to the walls with its hands, yet it can be found inside a king’s palace." 
Proverbs30:29 There are four stately monarchs who are impressive to watch as they go forth: 
Proverbs30:30 the lion, the king of the jungle, who is afraid of no one," 
Proverbs30:31 the rooster strutting boldly among the hens, the male goat out in front leading the herd, and a king leading his regal procession." 
Proverbs30:32 If you’ve acted foolishly by drawing attention to yourself, or if you’ve thought about saying something stupid, you’d better shut your mouth." 
Proverbs30:33 For such stupidity may give you a bloody nose! Stirring up an argument only leads to an angry confrontation. 
Proverbs31:1 King Lemuel’s royal words of wisdom: These are the inspired words my mother taught me. 
Proverbs31:2 Listen, my dear son, son of my womb. You are the answer to my prayers, my son." 
Proverbs31:3 So keep yourself sexually pure from the promiscuous, wayward woman. Don’t waste the strength of your anointing on those who ruin kings— you’ll live to regret it!" 
Proverbs31:4 For you are a king, Lemuel, and it’s never fitting for a king to be drunk on wine or for rulers to crave alcohol." 
Proverbs31:5 For when they drink they forget justice and ignore the rights of those in need, those who depend on them for leadership." 
Proverbs31:6 Strong drink is given to the terminally ill, who are suffering at the brink of death. Wine is for those in depression in order to drown their sorrows. Let them drink and forget their poverty and misery." 
Proverbs31:7  
Proverbs31:8 But you are to be a king who speaks up on behalf of the disenfranchised and pleads for the legal rights of the defenseless and those who are dying. 
Proverbs31:9 Be a righteous king, judging on behalf of the poor and interceding for those most in need." 
Proverbs31:10 Who could ever find a wife like this one — she is a woman of strength and mighty valor! She’s full of wealth and wisdom. The price paid for her was greater than many jewels. 
Proverbs31:11 Her husband has entrusted his heart to her, for she brings him the rich spoils of victory." 
Proverbs31:12 All throughout her life she brings him what is good and not evil. 
Proverbs31:13 She searches out continually to possess that which is pure and righteous. She delights in the work of her hands. 
Proverbs31:14 She gives out revelation-truth to feed others. She is like a trading ship bringing divine supplies from the merchant. 
Proverbs31:15 Even in the night season she arises and sets food on the table for hungry ones in her house and for others. 
Proverbs31:16 She sets her heart upon a field and takes it as her own. She labors there to plant the living vines. 
Proverbs31:17 She wraps herself in strength, might, and power in all her works." 
Proverbs31:18 She tastes and experiences a better substance, and her shining light will not be extinguished, no matter how dark the night." 
Proverbs31:19 She stretches out her hands to help the needy and she lays hold of the wheels of government. 
Proverbs31:20 She is known by her extravagant generosity to the poor, for she always reaches out her hands to those in need." 
Proverbs31:21 She is not afraid of tribulation, for all her household is covered in the dual garments of righteousness and grace." 
Proverbs31:22 Her clothing is beautifully knit together — a purple gown of exquisite linen. 
Proverbs31:23 Her husband is famous and admired by all, sitting as the venerable judge of his people." 
Proverbs31:24 Even her works of righteousness she does for the benefit of her enemies. 
Proverbs31:25 Bold power and glorious majesty are wrapped around her as she laughs with joy over the latter days. 
Proverbs31:26 Her teachings are filled with wisdom and kindness as loving instruction pours from her lips. 
Proverbs31:27 She watches over the ways of her household and meets every need they have. 
Proverbs31:28 Her sons and daughters arise in one accord to extol her virtues, and her husband arises to speak of her in glowing terms." 
Proverbs31:29 “There are many valiant and noble ones, but you have ascended above them all!”" 
Proverbs31:30 Charm can be misleading, and beauty is vain and so quickly fades, but this virtuous woman lives in the wonder, awe, and fear of the Lord. She will be praised throughout eternity." 
Proverbs31:31 So go ahead and give her the credit that is due, for she has become a radiant woman, and all her loving works of righteousness deserve to be admired at the gateways of every city!" 
SongOfSongs1:1 The most amazing song of all, by King Solomon." 
SongOfSongs1:2 Let him smother me with kisses—his Spirit-kiss divine. So kind are your caresses, I drink them in like the sweetest wine!" 
SongOfSongs1:3 Your presence releases a fragrance so pleasing— over and over poured out. For your lovely name is “Flowing Oil.” No wonder the brides-to-be adore you. 
SongOfSongs1:4 Draw me into your heart. We will run away together into the king’s cloud-filled chamber. We will remember your love, rejoicing and delighting in you, celebrating your every kiss as better than wine. No wonder righteousness adores you!" 
SongOfSongs1:5 Jerusalem maidens, in this twilight darkness I know I am so unworthy—so in need. Yet you are so lovely! I feel as dark and dry as the desert tents of the wandering nomads. Yet you are so lovely— like the fine linen tapestry hanging in the Holy Place." 
SongOfSongs1:6 Please don’t stare in scorn because of my dark and sinful ways. My angry brothers quarreled with me and appointed me guardian of their ministry vineyards, yet I’ve not tended my vineyard within." 
SongOfSongs1:7 Won’t you tell me, lover of my soul, where do you feed your flock? Where do you lead your beloved ones to rest in the heat of the day? Why should I be like a veiled woman as I wander among the flocks of your shepherds?" 
SongOfSongs1:8 Listen, my radiant one— if you ever lose sight of me, just follow in my footsteps where I lead my lovers. Come with your burdens and cares. Come to the place near the sanctuary of my shepherds." 
SongOfSongs1:9 My dearest one, let me tell you how I see you— you are so thrilling to me. To gaze upon you is like looking at one of Pharaoh’s finest horses — a strong, regal steed pulling his royal chariot." 
SongOfSongs1:10 Your tender cheeks are beautiful — your earrings and gem-laden necklaces set them ablaze. 
SongOfSongs1:11 We will enhance your beauty, with golden ornaments studded with silver." 
SongOfSongs1:12 As the king surrounded me at his table, the sweet fragrance of spikenard awakened the night." 
SongOfSongs1:13 A sachet of myrrh is my lover, like a tied-up bundle of myrrh resting over my heart." 
SongOfSongs1:14 He is like a bouquet of henna blossoms— henna plucked near the vines at the fountain of the Lamb. I will hold him and never let him part. 
SongOfSongs1:15 My darling, you are so lovely! You are beauty itself to me. Your passionate eyes are like gentle doves." 
SongOfSongs1:16 My beloved one, both handsome and winsome, you are pleasing beyond words. Our resting place is anointed and flourishing, like a green forest meadow bathed in light." 
SongOfSongs1:17 Rafters of cedar branches are over our heads and balconies of pleasant-smelling pines. 
SongOfSongs2:1 I am truly his rose, the very theme of his song. I’m overshadowed by his love, like a lily growing in the valley!" 
SongOfSongs2:2 Yes, you are my darling companion. You stand out from all the rest. For though the thorns surround you, you remain as pure as a lily, more than all others." 
SongOfSongs2:3 My beloved is to me the most fragrant apple tree— he stands above the sons of men. Sitting under his grace-shadow, I blossom in his shade, enjoying the sweet taste of his pleasant, delicious fruit, resting with delight where his glory never fades." 
SongOfSongs2:4 Suddenly, he transported me into his house of wine— he looked upon me with his unrelenting love divine." 
SongOfSongs2:5 Revive me with your raisin cakes. Refresh me again with your apples. Help me and hold me, for I am lovesick! I am longing for more— yet how could I take more?" 
SongOfSongs2:6 His left hand cradles my head while his right hand holds me close. I am at rest in this love. 
SongOfSongs2:7 Promise me, Jerusalem maidens, by the gentle gazelles and delicate deer, that you’ll not disturb my love until she is ready to arise." 
SongOfSongs2:8 Listen! I hear my lover’s voice. I know it’s him coming to me— leaping with joy over mountains, skipping in love over the hills that separate us, to come to me." 
SongOfSongs2:9 Let me describe him: he is graceful as a gazelle, swift as a wild stag. Now he comes closer, even to the places where I hide. He gazes into my soul, peering through the portal as he blossoms within my heart." 
SongOfSongs2:10 The one I love calls to me: Arise, my dearest. Hurry, my darling. Come away with me! I have come as you have asked to draw you to my heart and lead you out. For now is the time, my beautiful one." 
SongOfSongs2:11 The season has changed, the bondage of your barren winter has ended, and the season of hiding is over and gone. The rains have soaked the earth" 
SongOfSongs2:12 and left it bright with blossoming flowers. The season for singing and pruning the vines has arrived. I hear the cooing of doves in our land, filling the air with songs to awaken you and guide you forth." 
SongOfSongs2:13 Can you not discern this new day of destiny breaking forth around you? The early signs of my purposes and plans are bursting forth. The budding vines of new life are now blooming everywhere. The fragrance of their flowers whispers, “There is change in the air.” Arise, my love, my beautiful companion, and run with me to the higher place. For now is the time to arise and come away with me." 
SongOfSongs2:14 For you are my dove, hidden in the split-open rock. It was I who took you and hid you up high in the secret stairway of the sky. Let me see your radiant face and hear your sweet voice. How beautiful your eyes of worship and lovely your voice in prayer." 
SongOfSongs2:15 You must catch the troubling foxes, those sly little foxes that hinder our relationship. For they raid our budding vineyard of love to ruin what I’ve planted within you. Will you catch them and remove them for me? We will do it together." 
SongOfSongs2:16 I know my lover is mine and I have everything in you, for we delight ourselves in each other." 
SongOfSongs2:17 But until the day springs to life and the shifting shadows of fear disappear, turn around, my lover, and ascend to the holy mountains of separation without me. Until the new day fully dawns, run on ahead like the graceful gazelle and skip like the young stag over the mountains of separation. Go on ahead to the mountain of spices— I’ll come away another time." 
SongOfSongs3:1 Night after night I’m tossing and turning on my bed of travail. Why did I let him go from me? How my heart now aches for him, but he is nowhere to be found!" 
SongOfSongs3:2 So I must rise in search of him, looking throughout the city, seeking until I find him. Even if I have to roam through every street, nothing will keep me from my search. Where is he—my soul’s true love? He is nowhere to be found." 
SongOfSongs3:3 Then I encountered the overseers as they encircled the city. So I asked them, “Have you found him— my heart’s true love?”" 
SongOfSongs3:4 Just as I moved past them, I encountered him. I found the one I adore! I caught him and fastened myself to him, refusing to be feeble in my heart again. Now I’ll bring him back to the temple within where I was given new birth— into my innermost parts, the place of my conceiving." 
SongOfSongs3:5 Promise me, O Jerusalem maidens, by the gentle gazelles and delicate deer, that you’ll not disturb my love until she is ready to arise." 
SongOfSongs3:6 Who is this one ascending from the wilderness in the pillar of the glory cloud? He is fragrant with the anointing oils of myrrh and frankincense — more fragrant than all the spices of the merchant. 
SongOfSongs3:7 Look! It is the king’s marriage carriage— the love seat surrounded by sixty champions, the mightiest of Israel’s host, are like pillars of protection." 
SongOfSongs3:8 They stand ready with swords to defend the king and his fiancée from every terror of the night. 
SongOfSongs3:9 The king made this mercy seat for himself out of the finest wood that will not decay. 
SongOfSongs3:10 Pillars of smoke, like silver mist— a canopy of golden glory dwells above it. The place where they sit together is sprinkled with crimson. Love and mercy cover this carriage, blanketing his tabernacle throne. The king himself has made it for those who will become his bride." 
SongOfSongs3:11 Rise up, Zion maidens, brides-to-be! Come and feast your eyes on this king as he passes in procession on his way to his wedding. This is the day filled with overwhelming joy— the day of his great gladness." 
SongOfSongs4:1 Listen, my dearest darling, you are so beautiful—you are beauty itself to me! Your eyes are like gentle doves behind your veil. What devotion I see each time I gaze upon you. You are like a sacrifice ready to be offered." 
SongOfSongs4:2 When I look at you, I see how you have taken my fruit and tasted my word. Your life has become clean and pure, like a lamb washed and newly shorn. You now show grace and balance with truth on display." 
SongOfSongs4:3 Your lips are as lovely as Rahab’s scarlet ribbon, speaking mercy, speaking grace. The words of your mouth are as refreshing as an oasis. What pleasure you bring to me! I see your blushing cheeks opened like the halves of a pomegranate, showing through your veil of tender meekness." 
SongOfSongs4:4 When I look at you, I see your inner strength, so stately and strong. You are as secure as David’s fortress. Your virtues and grace cause a thousand famous soldiers to surrender to your beauty." 
SongOfSongs4:5 Your pure faith and love rest over your heart as you nurture those who are yet infants. 
SongOfSongs4:6 I’ve made up my mind. Until the darkness disappears and the dawn has fully come, in spite of shadows and fears, I will go to the mountaintop with you— the mountain of suffering love and the hill of burning incense. Yes, I will be your bride." 
SongOfSongs4:7 Every part of you is so beautiful, my darling. Perfect is your beauty, without flaw within." 
SongOfSongs4:8 Now you are ready, my bride, to come with me as we climb the highest peaks together. Come with me through the archway of trust. We will look down from the crest of the glistening mounts and from the summit of our sublime sanctuary, from the lion’s den and the leopard’s lair." 
SongOfSongs4:9 For you reach into my heart. With one flash of your eyes I am undone by your love, my beloved, my equal, my bride. You leave me breathless— I am overcome by merely a glance from your worshiping eyes, for you have stolen my heart. I am held hostage by your love and by the graces of righteousness shining upon you." 
SongOfSongs4:10 How satisfying to me, my equal, my bride. Your love is my finest wine—intoxicating and thrilling. And your sweet, perfumed praises—so exotic, so pleasing." 
SongOfSongs4:11 Your loving words are like the honeycomb to me; your tongue releases milk and honey, for I find the promised land flowing within you. The fragrance of your worshiping love surrounds you with scented robes of white." 
SongOfSongs4:12 My darling bride, my private paradise, fastened to my heart. A secret spring that no one else can have are you— my bubbling fountain hidden from public view. What a perfect partner to me now that I have you." 
SongOfSongs4:13 Your inward life is now sprouting, bringing forth fruit. What a beautiful paradise unfolds within you. When I’m near you, I smell aromas of the finest spice, for many clusters of my exquisite fruit now grow within your inner garden. Here are the nine: pomegranates of passion, henna from heaven, spikenard so sweet, saffron shining, fragrant calamus from the cross, sacred cinnamon, branches of scented woods, myrrh, like tears from a tree, and aloe as eagles ascending." 
SongOfSongs4:14  
SongOfSongs4:15 You are a fountain of gardens. A well of living water springs up from within you, like a mountain brook flowing into my heart!" 
SongOfSongs4:16 Awake, O north wind! Awake, O south wind! Breathe on my garden with your Spirit-Wind. Stir up the sweet spice of your life within me. Spare nothing as you make me your fruitful garden. Hold nothing back until I release your fragrance. Come walk with me as you walked with Adam in your paradise garden. Come taste the fruits of your life in me." 
SongOfSongs5:1 I have gathered from your heart, my equal, my bride, I have gathered from my garden all my sacred spices—even my myrrh. I have tasted and enjoyed my wine within you. I have tasted with pleasure my pure milk, my honeycomb, which you yield to me. I delight in gathering my sacred spice, all the fruits of my life I have gathered from within you, my paradise garden. Come, all my friends— feast upon my bride, all you revelers of my palace. Feast on her, my lovers! Drink and drink, and drink again, until you can take no more. Drink the wine of her love. Take all you desire, you priests. My life within her will become your feast." 
SongOfSongs5:2 After this I let my devotion slumber, but my heart for him stayed awake. I had a dream. I dreamed of my beloved— he was coming to me in the darkness of night. The melody of the man I love awakened me. I heard his knock at my heart’s door as he pleaded with me: Arise, my love. Open your heart, my darling, deeper still to me. Will you receive me this dark night? There is no one else but you, my friend, my equal. I need you this night to arise and come be with me. You are my pure, loyal dove, a perfect partner for me. My flawless one, will you arise? For my heaviness and tears are more than I can bear. I have spent myself for you throughout the dark night." 
SongOfSongs5:3 I have already laid aside my own garments for you. How could I take them up again since I’ve yielded my righteousness to yours? You have cleansed my life and taken me so far. Isn’t that enough? 
SongOfSongs5:4 My beloved reached into me to unlock my heart. The core of my very being trembled at his touch. How my soul melted when he spoke to me! 
SongOfSongs5:5 My spirit arose to open for more of his touch. As I surrendered to him, I began to sense his fragrance— the fragrance of his suffering love! It was the sense of myrrh flowing all through me!" 
SongOfSongs5:6 I opened my soul to my beloved, but suddenly he was gone! And my heart was torn out in longing for him. I sought his presence, his fragrance, but could not find him anywhere. I called out for him, yet he did not answer me. I will arise and search for him until I find him." 
SongOfSongs5:7 As I walked throughout the city in search of him, the overseers stopped me as they made their rounds. They beat me and bruised me until I could take no more. They wounded me deeply and removed my covering from me." 
SongOfSongs5:8 Nevertheless, make me this promise, you brides-to-be: if you find my beloved one, please tell him I endured all travails for him. I’ve been pierced through by love, and I will not be turned aside!" 
SongOfSongs5:9 What love is this? How could you continue to care so deeply for him? Isn’t there another who could steal away your heart? We see now your beauty, more beautiful than all the others. What makes your beloved better than any other? What is it about him that makes you ask us to promise you this?" 
SongOfSongs5:10 He alone is my beloved. He shines in dazzling splendor yet is still so approachable— without equal as he stands above all others, outstanding among ten thousand!" 
SongOfSongs5:11 The way he leads me is divine. His leadership—so pure and dignified as he wears his crown of gold. Upon this crown are letters of black written on a background of glory. 
SongOfSongs5:12 He sees everything with pure understanding. How beautiful his insights—without distortion. His eyes rest upon the fullness of the river of revelation, flowing so clean and pure." 
SongOfSongs5:13 Looking at his gentle face, I see such fullness of emotion. Like a lovely garden where fragrant spices grow — what a man! No one speaks words so anointed as this one — words that both pierce and heal, words like lilies dripping with myrrh." 
SongOfSongs5:14 See how his hands hold unlimited power! But he never uses it in anger, for he is always holy, displaying his glory. His innermost place is a work of art— so beautiful and bright. How magnificent and noble is this one— covered in majesty!" 
SongOfSongs5:15 He’s steadfast in all he does. His ways are the ways of righteousness, based on truth and holiness. None can rival him, but all will be amazed by him." 
SongOfSongs5:16 Most sweet are his kisses, even his whispers of love. He is delightful in every way and perfect from every viewpoint. If you ask me why I love him so, O brides-to-be, it’s because there is none like him to me. Everything about him fills me with holy desire! And now he is my beloved—my friend forever." 
SongOfSongs6:1 O rarest of beauty, where then has your lover gone? We long to see him too. Where may we find him? We will follow you as you seek after him." 
SongOfSongs6:2 My lover has gone down into his garden of delight, to the flowerbeds of spices to feast with those pure in heart." 
SongOfSongs6:3 I am fully devoted to my beloved, and my beloved is fully devoted to me." 
SongOfSongs6:4 O my beloved, you are lovely. When I see you in your beauty, I see a radiant city where we will dwell as one. More pleasing than any pleasure, more delightful than any delight, you have ravished my heart, stealing away my strength to resist you. Even hosts of angels stand in awe of you." 
SongOfSongs6:5 Turn your eyes from me; I can’t take it anymore! I can’t resist the passion of these eyes that I adore. Overpowered by a glance, my ravished heart—undone. Held captive by your love, I am truly overcome! For your undying devotion to me is the most yielded sacrifice." 
SongOfSongs6:6 The shining of your spirit shows how you have taken my truth to become balanced and complete. 
SongOfSongs6:7 Your beautiful blushing cheeks reveal how real your passion is for me, even hidden behind your veil of humility." 
SongOfSongs6:8 I could have chosen any from among the vast multitude of royal ones who follow me. 
SongOfSongs6:9 But unique is my beloved dove—unrivaled in beauty, without equal, beyond compare, the perfect one, the favorite one. Others see your beauty and sing of your joy. Brides and queens chant your praise: “How blessed is she!”" 
SongOfSongs6:10 Look at you now— arising as the dayspring of the dawn, fair as the shining moon, bright and brilliant as the sun in all its strength— astonishing to behold as a majestic army waving banners of victory." 
SongOfSongs6:11 I decided to go down to the valley streams where the orchards of the king grow and mature. I longed to know if hearts were opening. Are the budding vines blooming with new growth? Has their springtime of passionate love arrived? 
SongOfSongs6:12 Then suddenly my longings transported me. My divine desire brought me next to my beloved prince, sitting with him in his royal chariot. We were lifted up together!" 
SongOfSongs6:13 Come back! Return to us, O maiden of his majesty. Dance for us as we gaze upon your beauty. Why would you seek a mere Shulamite like me? Why would you want to see my dance of love? Because you dance so gracefully, as though you danced with angels!" 
SongOfSongs7:1 How beautiful on the mountains are the sandaled feet of this one bringing such good news. You are truly royalty! The way you walk so gracefully in my ways displays such dignity. You are truly the poetry of God—his very handiwork. 
SongOfSongs7:2 Out of your innermost being is flowing the fullness of my Spirit— never failing to satisfy. Within your womb there is a birthing of harvest wheat; they are the sons and daughters nurtured by the purity you impart. How gracious you have become! 
SongOfSongs7:3  
SongOfSongs7:4 Your life stands tall as a tower, like a shining light on a hill. Your revelation eyes are pure, like pools of refreshing — sparkling light for a multitude. Such discernment surrounds you, protecting you from the enemy’s advance." 
SongOfSongs7:5 Redeeming love crowns you as royalty. Your thoughts are full of life, wisdom, and virtue. Even a king is held captive by your beauty." 
SongOfSongs7:6 How delicious is your fair beauty; it cannot be described as I count the delights you bring to me. Love has become the greatest. 
SongOfSongs7:7 You stand in victory above the rest, stately and secure as you share with me your vineyard of love." 
SongOfSongs7:8 Now I decree, I will ascend my palm tree. I will take hold of you with my power, possessing every part of my fruitful bride. Your love I will drink as wine, and your words will be mine." 
SongOfSongs7:9 For your kisses of love are exhilarating, more than any delight I’ve known before. Your kisses of love awaken even the lips of sleeping ones." 
SongOfSongs7:10 Now I know that I am for my beloved and all his desires are fulfilled in me. 
SongOfSongs7:11 Come away, my lover. Come with me to the faraway fields. We will run away together to the forgotten places and show them redeeming love." 
SongOfSongs7:12 Let us arise and run to the vineyards of your people and see if the budding vines of love are now in full bloom. We will discover if their passion is awakened. There I will display my love for you. 
SongOfSongs7:13 The love apples are in bloom, sending forth their fragrance of spring. The rarest of fruits are found at our doors— the new as well as the old. I have stored them for you, my lover-friend!" 
SongOfSongs8:1 If only I could show everyone this passionate desire I have for you. If only I could express it fully, no matter who was watching me, without shame or embarrassment." 
SongOfSongs8:2 I long to bring you to my innermost chamber— this holy sanctuary you have formed within me. O that I might carry you within me! I would give you the spiced wine of my love, this full cup of bliss that we share. We would drink our fill until . . ." 
SongOfSongs8:3 His left hand cradles my head while his right hand holds me close. We are at rest in this love. 
SongOfSongs8:4 Promise me, brides-to-be, by the gentle gazelles and delicate deer, that you’ll not disturb my love until he is ready to arise." 
SongOfSongs8:5 Who is this one? She arises out of her desert, clinging to her beloved. When I awakened you under the apple tree, as you were feasting upon me, I awakened your innermost being with the travail of birth as you longed for more of me." 
SongOfSongs8:6 Fasten me upon your heart as a seal of fire forevermore. This living, consuming flame will seal you as my prisoner of love. My passion is stronger than the chains of death and the grave, all consuming as the very flashes of fire from the burning heart of God. Place this fierce, unrelenting fire over your entire being." 
SongOfSongs8:7 Rivers of pain and persecution will never extinguish this flame. Endless floods will be unable to quench this raging fire that burns within you. Everything will be consumed. It will stop at nothing as you yield everything to this furious fire until it won’t even seem to you like a sacrifice anymore. 
SongOfSongs8:8 My brothers said to me when I was young, “Our sister is so immature. What will we do to guard her for her wedding day?” We will build a tower of redemption to protect her. Since she is vulnerable, we will enclose her with a wall of cedar boards. But now I have grown and become a bride, and my love for him has made me a tower of passion and contentment for my beloved. I am now a firm wall of protection for others, guarding them from harm. This is how he sees me—I am the one who brings him bliss, finding favor in his eyes." 
SongOfSongs8:9  
SongOfSongs8:10  
SongOfSongs8:11 My bridegroom-king has a vineyard of love made from a multitude of followers. His caretakers of this vineyard have given my beloved their best. 
SongOfSongs8:12 But as for my own vineyard of love, I give all the glory to you. And I will give double honor to those who serve my beloved and have watched over my soul." 
SongOfSongs8:13 My beloved, one with me in my garden, how marvelous that my friends, the brides-to-be, now hear your voice and song. Let me now hear it again." 
SongOfSongs8:14 Arise, my darling! Come quickly, my beloved. Come and be the graceful gazelle with me. Come be like a young stag with me. We will dance in the high place of the sky, yes, on the mountains of fragrant spice. Forever we shall be united as one!" 
Isaiah1:1 Here is the vision that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, received by divine revelation concerning what was going to happen to Judah and Jerusalem during the times of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah." 
Isaiah1:2 Listen, O heavens! Hear, O earth! For the Lord Yahweh has spoken: “I tenderly nurtured children and made them great, but they have rebelled against me!" 
Isaiah1:3 Even a dumb ox instinctively knows its owner and the stubborn mule knows the hand that feeds it, but Israel does not know me nor do my people understand.”" 
Isaiah1:4 Oh, how this nation keeps sinning! See them dragging the heavy burden of their guilt! They are corrupt children, descendants of evildoers. They have turned their backs on the Lord God and despised the Holy One of Israel! They have cut themselves off from the help of God!" 
Isaiah1:5 Why would you seek to be injured further? Why would you stubbornly continue in your rebellion? Your whole head is sick, and your heart and your will are weak and faint." 
Isaiah1:6 You are corrupt from the bottom of your feet to the top of your head. There is no integrity — nothing but bruises, putrefying sores, and raw open wounds! They have not been drained or bandaged or soothed with oil." 
Isaiah1:7 Your country is devastated and your cities burned to the ground; foreigners plunder your crops before your eyes— with nothing but devastation and destruction in their wake! 
Isaiah1:8 And the daughter of Zion is left as helpless as a deserted shack in a vineyard or a flimsy shelter in a field of cucumbers— in every way like a city besieged! 
Isaiah1:9 If the Lord of Angel Armies had not left us survivors, our fate would have been the same as Sodom and Gomorrah!" 
Isaiah1:10 Hear the word of Yahweh: “You leaders of Sodom, heed the correction of our God! People of Gomorrah, you’d better listen to his rebuke.”" 
Isaiah1:11 And Yahweh keeps saying: “Why such countless sacrifices—what use are they to me? I’ve had my fill of your burnt offerings of rams and your fattened animals. I find no delight in the blood of bulls, lambs, or goats!" 
Isaiah1:12 When you come before my face, who asked you to come trampling on my courtyards?" 
Isaiah1:13 Stop bringing your meaningless offerings. Your burning incense stinks! Your sin-stained celebrations, your new moon festivals, Sabbaths, your various pious meetings—I can’t stand them!" 
Isaiah1:14 With all my soul I hate your new moon festivals and your feasts; they are nothing but a burden that I’m sick and tired of carrying. 
Isaiah1:15 When you stretch out your hands to pray, I will hide my eyes from you. Repeat your prayers all you want, but I will not listen, for your hands are stained with innocent blood." 
Isaiah1:16 Wash yourselves and make yourselves clean. Remove your evil actions from my sight and stop sinning! 
Isaiah1:17 Learn what it means to do what is good by seeking righteousness and justice! Rescue the oppressed. Uphold the rights of the fatherless and defend the widow’s cause. 
Isaiah1:18 Come now and let’s deliberate over the next steps to take together.” Yahweh promises you over and over: “Though your sins stain you like scarlet, I will whiten them like bright, new-fallen snow! Even though they are deep red like crimson, they will be made white like wool!" 
Isaiah1:19 If you have a willing heart to let me help you, and if you will obey me, you will feast on the blessings of an abundant harvest." 
Isaiah1:20 But if you are stubborn and refuse to obey, the sword will eat you instead.” The mouth of Yahweh has spoken." 
Isaiah1:21 Look how the once faithful city has become as unfaithful as a prostitute! She who was once the “Center of Justice,” where righteousness made its home, is now the dwelling place of murderers!" 
Isaiah1:22 She was once like sterling silver, now only mixture; once so pure, now diluted like watered-down wine." 
Isaiah1:23 Your rulers are rebellious and companions of crooks. They are self-centered racketeers who love a bribe and who chase after payoffs. They don’t defend the fatherless or consider the rights of a helpless widow. 
Isaiah1:24 Therefore, here is what the Sovereign One, the Lord God of Angel Armies, the Mighty One of Israel, decrees: “Ah, I will get relief from my adversaries and avenge myself on my foes!" 
Isaiah1:25 I will put my fiery hand upon you and purify you with fire into something clean.” 
Isaiah1:26 “I will restore deliverers as in former times and your wise counselors as at the beginning. Only then will you be called the Righteous City and the Faithful City!” 
Isaiah1:27 Yes, Zion will be redeemed with justice and her repentant converts with righteousness." 
Isaiah1:28 There will be a shattering of rebels and sinners together, and those who forsake the Lord will be consumed." 
Isaiah1:29 You will reap shame from the idols you once delighted in and you will be humiliated by your cultic sacred groves, where you chose to worship." 
Isaiah1:30 You will be like an oak tree with faded, fallen leaves and like a withered, waterless garden." 
Isaiah1:31 The “powerful elite” will become like kindling and their evil deeds like sparks—both will burn together and no one will be able to put out the fire. 
Isaiah2:1 This is the word revealed to Isaiah, son of Amoz, concerning Judah and Jerusalem:" 
Isaiah2:2 In the last days, the mountain of Yahweh ’s temple will be raised up as the head of the mountains, towering over all the hills. A sparkling stream of every nation will flow into it." 
Isaiah2:3 Many peoples will come and say, “Everyone, come! Let’s go up higher to Yahweh ’s mountain, to the house of Jacob’s God; then he can teach us his ways and we can walk in his paths!” Zion will be the center of instruction, and the word of Yahweh will go out from Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:4 He will judge fairly between the nations and settle disputes among many peoples. They will beat the swords they used against each other into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. No nation will take up weapons against another, nor will they prepare for war anymore." 
Isaiah2:5 O house of Jacob, come let us walk in the wonderful light of Yahweh!" 
Isaiah2:6 Lord, you have abandoned your people, the house of Jacob, for they are full of occultic secrets from the east, like the land of the Philistines, with sorcerers everywhere; they are pleased with what is false and foreign." 
Isaiah2:7 Their land overflows with gold and silver; they are wealthy beyond measure. Their land is filled with horses and innumerable chariots! 
Isaiah2:8 Worthless idols are everywhere, and they worship the work of their own hands, what their fingers have made." 
Isaiah2:9 The people bow down low before the “no-gods,” and the leaders lie down flat before them in worship, so do not spare them!" 
Isaiah2:10 Enter into the rock and hide in the dust from the dreadful presence of Yahweh and from his majestic glory. 
Isaiah2:11 The arrogant will be humbled and the pride of man brought low. Only one will be exalted in that day: Yahweh! 
Isaiah2:12 The Lord of Angel Armies has a day of humiliation in store for all the high and mighty, for all who are proud and self-exalting. They will be brought low." 
Isaiah2:13 His judgment is coming against all the lofty cedars of Lebanon and all the oaks of Bashan," 
Isaiah2:14 against all the high mountains and all the lofty hills," 
Isaiah2:15 against every high tower and every fortress wall," 
Isaiah2:16 against all the trading ships of Tarshish and all the impressive sailing vessels. 
Isaiah2:17 People’s arrogance will be conquered and brought low, and those proud of heart will be humiliated. Only one will be exalted in that day: Yahweh!" 
Isaiah2:18 Every worthless idol will utterly pass away. 
Isaiah2:19 People will hide in caves and holes in the ground from the dreadful presence of Yahweh and from his majestic glory when he rises to mightily shake the earth. 
Isaiah2:20 In that day, people will throw away the worthless idols their hands have made from gold and silver. They will fling their treasures to the rodents and bats" 
Isaiah2:21 as they crawl into the clefts of the rock to hide from the dreadful presence of Yahweh and from the majesty of his glory when he rises to shake the earth mightily! 
Isaiah2:22 So once and for all, stop trusting in man, who is but one breath from death —frail and puny man!" 
Isaiah3:1 Behold— Yahweh, the Sovereign One, the Commander of Angel Armies, is about to cut off from Jerusalem and Judah every source of their support and security, including all food supplies and water." 
Isaiah3:2 He will remove their heroes and soldiers, prophets and judges, their psychics and statesmen," 
Isaiah3:3 their respected military leaders, pillars of the community, their counselors, skilled craftsmen, and those professional charmers." 
Isaiah3:4 I will make inexperienced youth their rulers, and children will govern them." 
Isaiah3:5 Everyone will take advantage of everyone else, and neighbor will struggle against neighbor. The youth will not respect their elders, and the dishonorable will sneer at those worthy of honor." 
Isaiah3:6 One man will even seize a relative right in his father’s house and say, “ At least you own a coat; you be our leader! You can oversee this heap of ruins!”" 
Isaiah3:7 In that day he will cry out, “I have no remedy for this mess! I don’t have any food or clothes either, so don’t make me your leader!”" 
Isaiah3:8 Jerusalem has stumbled and Judah has fallen because their words and their works are defiant before the face of the Lord’s glorious presence. 
Isaiah3:9 The look on their impudent faces says it all, for they publicly flaunt their sin like Sodom, not even trying to hide it. Woe to their souls, for they invite disaster upon themselves." 
Isaiah3:10 Yet reassure the righteous; it will go well with them! They will fully enjoy the reward of their deeds. 
Isaiah3:11 But woe to the guilty, for they will get fully what they deserve!" 
Isaiah3:12 My people, mockers exploit you and creditors rule over you. My people, your leaders mislead you and confuse you with their guidance." 
Isaiah3:13 Yahweh is taking his rightful place in court; he is rising to judge his people. 
Isaiah3:14 Yahweh comes to issue the guilty verdict of the elders and leaders of his people, saying: “You are the ones who have ruined the nation! Your houses are full of what you’ve stolen from the poor!" 
Isaiah3:15 What gives you the right to crush my people by shoving the faces of the poor into the dirt?” Yahweh, the Sovereign One, Commander of Angel Armies, has spoken." 
Isaiah3:16 Here is what Yahweh says: “The daughters of Zion are proud, walking about arrogantly with their noses in the air. Their eyes are seductive as they skip along with jewelry jingling on their ankles." 
Isaiah3:17 So the Lord will afflict the foreheads of the daughters of Zion with scabs; Yahweh will make the front of their heads bald in that day.” 
Isaiah3:18 In that day, the Lord will strip away their vanity — their beautiful ankle jewelry, necklaces, crescent pendants, earrings, bracelets, and veils of shimmering gauze." 
Isaiah3:19  
Isaiah3:20 Gone will be their elaborate headdresses and ankle chains, their sashes, sachets, and charms." 
Isaiah3:21 He will snatch away their signet rings and nose rings," 
Isaiah3:22 their stately gowns, capes, shawls, cloaks, and purses," 
Isaiah3:23 hand mirrors, fine linen garments interwoven with gold and purple, turbans, and long veils." 
Isaiah3:24 A stench will take the place of seductive perfumes; a rope will take the place of a sash, baldness for braided hair, rags instead of a fine robe, and the brand of a captive instead of beauty." 
Isaiah3:25 Your men will fall on the battlefield and your heroes will die in war. 
Isaiah3:26 Cries of mourning will be heard at the city gates; with the anguish of such great loss, she will sit down and grieve in the dirt." 
Isaiah4:1 Seven women will take hold of one man in that day, saying, “We will eat our own food and wear our own clothing; just take away our disgrace and let us be called by your name.”" 
Isaiah4:2 In that day, the branch of Yahweh will be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth will be the pride and glory of the remnant of Israel." 
Isaiah4:3 Then the remnant in Zion and Jerusalem, those who are written for life in Jerusalem, will be called holy." 
Isaiah4:4 And the Lord has washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and cleansed the bloodstains of Jerusalem by a Spirit of justice and by a Spirit of burning. 
Isaiah4:5 Then Yahweh will create over all of Mount Zion and over every gathering a cloud of smoke by day and a glow of flaming fire by night. And all this manifestation of dazzling glory will spread over them like a wedding canopy. 
Isaiah4:6 It will be a tabernacle as a shade from the scorching heat of the day and a safe shelter to protect them from the storm and rain. 
Isaiah5:1 Let me sing a song for the one I love, called “My Lover and His Vineyard”: My beloved planted a vineyard on a very fertile hill." 
Isaiah5:2 First he dug up its ground and hauled away its stones so he could plant within it the choicest of vines. He built a watchtower in the middle of it and carved a winepress out of its rock. He fully expected it to bear good grapes, but instead it produced only worthless wild grapes." 
Isaiah5:3 So now, you residents of Jerusalem and people of Judah, you be the judges!" 
Isaiah5:4 What more could I have done for my vineyard? When I expected it to bear luscious grapes, why did it produce only wild, worthless grapes?" 
Isaiah5:5 So let me tell you what I am about to do to my vineyard. I will tear down its fence and it will be plundered. I will break down its wall and it will be destroyed! 
Isaiah5:6 I will make it a wasteland, and no one will cultivate the land. It will grow only weeds and thorns! I will command the clouds and they will not drop their rain upon it!" 
Isaiah5:7 For Israel is this vineyard of Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, and the people of Judah are the garden of his delight. When he waited for a crop of justice, he got a harvest of bloodshed! When he waited to reap fairness, he heard only the cries of victims." 
Isaiah5:8 Woe to those who, in their greed, buy up house after house to make one grand estate until there is no place for anyone else and only the landowner is left!" 
Isaiah5:9 This is what Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, said in my ears: “Truly, many of your houses will become devastated and your large, impressive mansions will have no one living in them!" 
Isaiah5:10 Indeed, even a vast vineyard will produce only a few gallons of wine, and several bushels of seed will produce only a bushel of harvest!”" 
Isaiah5:11 Woe to those who start drinking early in the morning, lingering late into the night to get drunk with wine." 
Isaiah5:12 Their lavish parties are complete with the music of harps and flutes—and the wine flows! Yet they have no respect for what Yahweh has done, nor do they contemplate the work of his hands!" 
Isaiah5:13 Therefore, my people go into exile for lack of understanding. Their leaders are starving, their multitudes parched with thirst." 
Isaiah5:14 The shadowy realm of death grows thirsty for souls and opens its mouth even wider to drink in the people! It gulps down the leaders of Jerusalem, along with their noisy, boasting crowds!" 
Isaiah5:15 The people will be humiliated, all of humanity humbled, and the arrogant will be brought low." 
Isaiah5:16 With justice the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, displays his greatness, and righteousness sets him apart as the holy God." 
Isaiah5:17 Then lambs will graze, as if in their own pastures, and the refugee will eat in the ruins of the rich." 
Isaiah5:18 Woe to those who drag behind them their guilt with ropes made of lies — straining and tugging, harnessed to their bondage!" 
Isaiah5:19 They say, “May God hurry up and bring his judgment so that we can see it once and for all! Let the prophetic plan of the Holy One of Israel quickly come to pass so that we can see what it is!”" 
Isaiah5:20 Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who replace darkness with light and light with darkness, who replace bitter with sweet and sweet with bitter." 
Isaiah5:21 Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and see themselves as clever and shrewd. 
Isaiah5:22 Woe to the champion wine drinkers who are heroes in mixing strong drinks— 
Isaiah5:23 judges and politicians who acquit the guilty for a bribe and take away the rights of the innocent. 
Isaiah5:24 Therefore, just as tongues of fire lick up the straw and dry grass, they will be destroyed, just as a plant with decaying roots and blossoms dries up like dust and is blown away in the wind. For they said, “No!” to the teachings of Yahweh, the Lord of Angel Armies, and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel!" 
Isaiah5:25 For this reason Yahweh ’s anger burned against his people, and he struck them down with his holy hand! The mountains trembled, and dead bodies were littered like garbage left in the streets. Even with this, his anger has not turned away and still his hand is heavy upon them!" 
Isaiah5:26 He will lift up a banner to signal the distant nations; he whistles for them to come from the ends of the earth. Look! Here they come, running swiftly and speedily!" 
Isaiah5:27 Not one warrior stumbles or grows weary— not even stopping to rest or sleep; they are battle ready! 
Isaiah5:28 Their arrows are sharpened and every bow strung. Their horses’ hooves are hard as flint and their chariot wheels turn like the whirlwind. 
Isaiah5:29 Their shout is like a lion’s roar, the roar of strong lions growling as they seize their prey. They carry away captives, and none can rescue them." 
Isaiah5:30 They will roar and roar on that day like the roaring of crashing waves, and if you look back across the land you’ll see only darkness, disaster, and distress; daylight itself will be obscured by thick clouds." 
Isaiah6:1 In the year that King Uzziah died, I clearly saw the Lord. He was seated on his exalted throne, towering high above me. His long, flowing robe of splendor spread throughout the temple." 
Isaiah6:2 Standing above him were the angels of flaming fire, each with six wings: with two wings they covered their faces in reverence, with two wings they covered their feet, and with two wings they flew." 
Isaiah6:3 And one called out to another, saying: “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, Commander of Angel Armies! The whole earth is filled with his glory!”" 
Isaiah6:4 The thunderous voice of the fiery angels caused the foundations of the thresholds to tremble as the cloud of glory filled the temple! 
Isaiah6:5 Then I stammered and said, “Woe is me! I’m destroyed —doomed as a sinful man! For my words are tainted and I live among people who talk the same way. King Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies—my eyes have gazed upon him!”" 
Isaiah6:6 Then out of the smoke, one of the angels of fire flew to me. He had in his hands a burning coal he had taken from the altar with tongs." 
Isaiah6:7 He touched my lips with it and said, “See? The burning coal from the altar has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away; your sin is blotted out.”" 
Isaiah6:8 Then I heard the Lord saying, “Whom should I send to my people? Who will go to represent us?” I spoke up and said, “I will be the one. Send me.”" 
Isaiah6:9 Then he said, “Go and tell the people: ‘You keep listening but understand nothing. You keep watching but learn nothing.’" 
Isaiah6:10 Go and preach a message that will make their hearts dull, their ears plugged, and their eyes blind. Otherwise, their eyes will begin to see, their ears will begin to hear, their hearts will begin to understand, and they will return to me for healing and be healed.”" 
Isaiah6:11 Then I asked, “O Lord, for how long?” He answered, “Until their houses and cities are destroyed and uninhabited and their land a desolate wasteland." 
Isaiah6:12 Until the Lord has exiled them all to a distant country and the entire land lies deserted. 
Isaiah6:13 Yet if even a tenth remains there, it will be burned again. It will be like a fallen oak or terebinth tree when it is felled; the stump still lives to grow again.” Now, the “stump” is the holy seed." 
Isaiah7:1 During the reign of Ahaz, the son of Jotham and grandson of Uzziah, two kings launched an attack against Jerusalem: Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel. But they failed to conquer it." 
Isaiah7:2 When the royal court was told that Syria had formed an alliance with the northern kingdom of Israel, the heart of King Ahaz and all his people trembled with fear, like trees swaying in the wind." 
Isaiah7:3 Then Yahweh spoke to Isaiah and said, “Go and meet with King Ahaz. You’ll find him on the road to the Washerman’s Field at the end of the aqueduct where it empties into the upper pool. Take with you your son, whom you named a Remnant Will Return." 
Isaiah7:4 Give him this message: ‘Stay calm! Be quiet and guard your heart! Don’t panic or be discouraged over these two smoldering stubs of firewood, because of the rage of Rezin and Aram, the son of Remaliah." 
Isaiah7:5 Syria has plotted with the northern kingdom of Israel and the son of Remaliah to come against you. 
Isaiah7:6 They are saying, “We will attack Judah and cut off Jerusalem—we will terrorize and conquer it for ourselves and install the son of Tabeel as king!” ’ ”" 
Isaiah7:7 Now hear what the Lord Yahweh says: “They will not succeed—it will never happen! 
Isaiah7:8 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin. Sixty-five years from now the northern kingdom of Israel will be shattered, with nothing left of it." 
Isaiah7:9 The head of the northern kingdom of Israel is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not be able to stand at all!”" 
Isaiah7:10 Again Lord Yahweh spoke to Ahaz: 
Isaiah7:11 “Go ahead—ask for a sign from Yahweh, your God. Ask for something big, so miraculous that you will know only God did it!”" 
Isaiah7:12 Ahaz answered, “I will not ask. I won’t attempt to test the Lord Yahweh.”" 
Isaiah7:13 So Isaiah said, “Pay attention, family of David. It’s bad enough to try the patience of a prophet but even worse when you try the patience of my God as well!" 
Isaiah7:14 The Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold—the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son and will name him God Among Us. 
Isaiah7:15 He will eat curdled milk and honey, and he will know enough to refuse the evil and choose the good." 
Isaiah7:16 Yet even before that time comes for him to know good and evil, the lands of those two kings you dread will be deserted.”" 
Isaiah7:17 “The Lord Yahweh is going to bring days of catastrophic trouble—on you, on your people, and on the whole royal court—not seen since the northern kingdom of Israel broke off from Judah. He is going to bring the king of Assyria with his great army!”" 
Isaiah7:18 In that day, the Lord Yahweh will whistle and call for flies from Egypt’s lower streams. He will whistle for bees from the land of Assyria," 
Isaiah7:19 and they will swarm down upon you and settle into the steep ravines, the crevices of the rocks, on every thorn bush and at every stagnant pool." 
Isaiah7:20 In that day, the Lord will take his “razor,” the hired king of Assyria from beyond the Euphrates, and he will shave your head, your legs, and also your beard, leaving you ashamed and exposed!" 
Isaiah7:21 In that day, if a farmer keeps alive only one heifer and two goats," 
Isaiah7:22 they will give so much milk that he will have more than he needs. And everyone left in the land will have all the milk and honey they desire. 
Isaiah7:23 In that day, the fine vineyards, each with a thousand vines and worth a thousand pieces of silver, will be a wilderness overgrown with weeds, briars, and thorn bushes." 
Isaiah7:24 People will hunt there with bow and arrow but will find nothing except thorn bushes and briars! 
Isaiah7:25 The once-cultivated hillsides where vineyards used to grow will be completely overgrown with thorns so that people will be afraid to go there. It will become a place where cattle graze and sheep trample. 
Isaiah8:1 The Lord Yahweh said to me, “Take a large tablet and engrave upon it these words using the stylus of a man: Quickly—to the Plunder! Hurry—to the Loot!" 
Isaiah8:2 Then summon two reliable men, Uriah the priest and Zechariah, son of Jeberechiah, to act as witnesses.”" 
Isaiah8:2 Then summon two reliable men, Uriah the priest and Zechariah, son of Jeberechiah, to act as witnesses.”" 
Isaiah8:3 Then I slept with my wife, the prophetess; she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. Then the Lord Yahweh told me, “You will name him Quickly—to the Plunder! Hurry—to the Loot!" 
Isaiah8:4 For before the boy knows how to say ‘my father’ or ‘my mother,’ the wealth of Damascus and Samaria will be plundered and carried away by the king of Assyria!”" 
Isaiah8:5 The Lord Yahweh spoke to me again: 
Isaiah8:6 “Because these people have rejected the gentle flowing stream of my loving presence and melt in fear before Rezin and the son of Remaliah," 
Isaiah8:7 now, therefore, the Lord is about to bring against them the mighty, massive flood of the Euphrates. The king of Assyria and all his glory will overflow on you like a river flooding its channels and running over all its banks!" 
Isaiah8:8 It will flood into Judah, swirling over it, overflowing and reaching up to your neck, O Immanuel, and spread out its wings over your entire land!”" 
Isaiah8:9 You will be broken, O nations, and will be shattered. Listen, all you distant nations. Prepare for war, though it will backfire on you! Prepare for war, yet you will be shattered!" 
Isaiah8:10 Go ahead, hatch a plot, but it will be foiled! Go ahead, speak a word, but it will not stand, for God is with us!" 
Isaiah8:11 Yahweh ’s mighty hand rested on me, and he gave me a strong warning not to act like these people." 
Isaiah8:12 “Don’t believe their every conspiracy rumor. And don’t fear what they fear—don’t be moved or terrified. 
Isaiah8:13 Fear nothing and no one except Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies! Honor him as holy. Be in awe before him with deepest reverence!" 
Isaiah8:14 He will become for you a holy sanctuary but for them a stone people trip over. He is a rock that causes the two houses of Israel to stumble—a trap and a snare for the people of Jerusalem. 
Isaiah8:15 Many will stumble and fall and be broken. Yes, they will be snared and taken away captive.”" 
Isaiah8:16 Now, tie up the scroll and preserve it as legal evidence. Seal my instructions for the future for my disciples." 
Isaiah8:17 I will wait for the Lord Yahweh, who hides his face from the family of Jacob. And I will place all my hope in him!" 
Isaiah8:18 Behold—here I stand, and the children whom the Lord Yahweh has given me are for signs and wonders in Israel, sent from the Lord Almighty, Commander of Angel Armies, who is enthroned on Mount Zion!" 
Isaiah8:19 Now, suppose someone says, “Consult mediums and spiritists who moan and mutter their incantations in their ritual pits; after all, isn’t it right for people to seek oracles from their gods by asking the dead about the destiny of the living?”" 
Isaiah8:20 You are to answer them: “Listen to the teaching and instruction of the Lord! If their speech does not line up with his word, they will have no light of dawn!" 
Isaiah8:21 They will wander here and there, distressed and hungry. And when they are famished, they will be enraged and begin to curse their king and their God. If they look to the heavens" 
Isaiah8:22 or to the earth, they will find only despair and darkness and fearful gloom, and they will be thrust into obscure darkness!”" 
Isaiah9:1 No more gloom for those who are in distress! Although the Lord greatly humbled the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali, he will one day bestow upon them great honor—from the Mediterranean eastward to the other side of the Jordan and throughout the Galilee of the gentiles." 
Isaiah9:2 Those who walked in darkness have seen a radiant light shining upon them. They once lived in the shadows of death, but now a glorious light has dawned!" 
Isaiah9:3 Lord, you have multiplied the nation and given them overwhelming joy! They are ecstatic in your presence and rejoice like those who bring in a great harvest and those who divide up the spoils of victory!" 
Isaiah9:4 For you have broken the chains that have bound your people and lifted off the heavy bar across their shoulders, the rod the oppressor used against them. You have shattered all their bondage, just as you did when Midian’s armies were defeated." 
Isaiah9:5 Every boot of marching troops and every uniform caked with blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. 
Isaiah9:6 A child has been born for us; a son has been given to us. The responsibility of complete dominion will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be: the Wonderful One, the Extraordinary Strategist, the Mighty God, the Father of Eternity, the Prince of Peace!" 
Isaiah9:7 Great and vast is his dominion. He will bring immeasurable peace and prosperity. He will rule on David’s throne and over David’s kingdom to establish and uphold it by promoting justice and righteousness from this time forward and forevermore. The marvelous passion that the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has for his people will ensure that it is finished!" 
Isaiah9:8 The Lord decreed a word against Jacob, and it brought calamity upon Israel." 
Isaiah9:9 And all the people of Ephraim and Samaria knew of it. Their hearts filled with pride and they arrogantly boasted," 
Isaiah9:10 “Our brick walls may have crumbled, but we will rebuild them with dressed stones. Invading armies may have cut down our sycamore trees, but we will plant cedars in their place!”" 
Isaiah9:11 So the Lord Yahweh stirred up their enemies and strengthened Rezin’s foes, and they came against the people." 
Isaiah9:12 Syrians on the east, Philistines on the west—they came with bared teeth and devoured Israel. Yet despite all this, his anger did not subside, and his hand of judgment is poised to strike them again." 
Isaiah9:13 For the people did not repent and turn to the one who struck them or seek the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Isaiah9:14 In a single day, the Lord Yahweh cut off from Israel both head and tail, palm branch and reed." 
Isaiah9:15 The elders and dignitaries are the head, and the prophet who teaches lies is the tail." 
Isaiah9:16 The leaders have led them astray, and the citizens are left in confusion." 
Isaiah9:17 That is why the Lord did not show pity to the young people or have compassion on their orphans and widows. For everyone was godless and did evil and each mouth spewed out wickedness. Therefore, the Lord’s anger has not subsided, and his hand is poised to strike them again." 
Isaiah9:18 Surely wickedness burned like an out-of-control fire, consuming thorns and thistles. It set ablaze the thickets of the forest with flames swirling upward in columns of smoke." 
Isaiah9:19 The land was scorched because of the anger of the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. The people themselves became fuel for the fire, and no one showed compassion toward another." 
Isaiah9:20 With their right hands they snatched what belonged to others, yet remained hungry. With their left hands they stole food, yet they were starving and even ate their own offspring!" 
Isaiah9:21 Manasseh devoured Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasseh, and together they turned against Judah. Yet despite all this, the Lord’s anger has not subsided, and his hand is poised to strike them again." 
Isaiah10:1 Woe to those who legalize injustice and write oppressive legislation! 
Isaiah10:2 You rip away the rights of the poor and prey upon widows and orphans! 
Isaiah10:3 What will come of you on your day of visitation when disaster comes from afar? To whom will you run for help? And what will you do then with all your great wealth? 
Isaiah10:4 You’ll have no option but to cringe among the captives or fall among the corpses of the slain! Yet despite all this, his anger has not subsided, and his hand is poised to strike." 
Isaiah10:5 Woe to arrogant Assyria, the rod of my anger! The club I place in the king’s hand is my fury." 
Isaiah10:6 I am the one who has sent him against a godless nation and ordered him to attack a people who anger me. I sent him to take the spoil and seize the plunder and to trample them down like dust in the street. 
Isaiah10:7 But he has no clue what he’s doing, and he has something else in mind. He plans on annihilating many nations" 
Isaiah10:8 and thinks, “After all, I have made my executive commanders into kings." 
Isaiah10:9 Calneh will be no different than Carchemish, whom I destroyed. I’ll destroy Hamath as I did Arpad and make Samaria like Damascus." 
Isaiah10:10 Since I was able to seize kingdoms full of idols and images more powerful and more impressive than those of Jerusalem and Samaria," 
Isaiah10:11 won’t I do the same thing to Jerusalem and Samaria and their idols?” 
Isaiah10:12 But when the Lord has carried out his purpose on Mount Zion and Jerusalem, he will punish the king of Assyria because of his overbearing arrogance and unrestrained pride!" 
Isaiah10:13 He boasted, “Look what I have done by the strength of my hand and by my wisdom. See how clever I am! I have erased the borders of nations and plundered their treasures. I have been like a mighty conqueror, subduing those in strong fortresses." 
Isaiah10:14 I seized their wealth as one who found an unprotected nest. As one who gathers eggs that have been left behind, so I gathered the wealth of the world. And the young birds could neither move a wing nor even open their mouths to peep!”" 
Isaiah10:15 Is the axe greater than the one who wields it? Is the saw greater than the one who cuts with it? Can the axe strike without a hand to move it? Can a lifeless wooden cane walk all by itself? 
Isaiah10:16 Therefore, the sovereign Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will send a devastating plague among Assyria’s proud warriors. Yes, the “glory” of Assyria will be burned and go up in smoke!" 
Isaiah10:17 For the Light of Israel will become a fire in their midst, and the Holy One will become a flame! He will consume the thorns and thistles of the Assyrian king in one day!" 
Isaiah10:18 The splendor of his forest and orchard will be completely destroyed, like a dying man fading away." 
Isaiah10:19 The forest will have so few trees left that even a little boy could count them. 
Isaiah10:20 In that day, neither the remnant of Israel nor the survivors of the house of Jacob will lean anymore upon the one who abused them, but they will lean fully on the faithfulness of the Lord Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah10:21 A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob’s tribes to the mighty God." 
Isaiah10:22 Though your people Israel were as many as the sand on the seashore, only a remnant will return. Destruction has been decreed, and it will be overflowing with righteousness." 
Isaiah10:23 For the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will complete the destruction he has decreed upon the whole land." 
Isaiah10:24 So hear what the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has to say: “My Zion-people, do not be gripped with fear over the Assyrians who oppress and abuse you, as the Egyptians did long ago." 
Isaiah10:25 After only a brief moment, I will end my indignation against you, and it will fall upon them to their destruction!”" 
Isaiah10:26 The Lord Yahweh, who commands angel armies, will wield his whip against them, as when he struck Midian at the rock of Oreb. And once again he will raise his rod over the waters, as he did in Egypt." 
Isaiah10:27 In that day the Lord will remove the heavy burden from your shoulders and break off the yoke of bondage from your necks because of the heavy anointing upon you! 
Isaiah10:28 The Assyrian army attacked Aiath; they passed over into Migron and stored their equipment at Michmash. 
Isaiah10:29 They went through the pass and spent the night at Geba. Ramah was alarmed and trembled. Those in Gibeah, the city of Saul, ran for their lives." 
Isaiah10:30 Cry aloud, O daughter of Gallim! Listen, O Laishah! Poor Anathoth!" 
Isaiah10:31 Madmenah is retreating; the residents of Gebim are hiding. 
Isaiah10:32 This very day, standing at Nob, he will shake his fist at the mountain of the daughter of the house of Zion— at the hill of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah10:33 Behold, the Sovereign Lord of Angel Armies is about to cut off the branches with terrifying power. He will cut down the exalted heights of the high, and all the lofty will be brought low." 
Isaiah10:34 He will slash the thickets of the forest as with an axe, and Lebanon will fall before the Mighty One." 
Isaiah11:1 The cut-off stump of Jesse will sprout, and a fruitful Branch will grow from his roots:" 
Isaiah11:2 the Spirit of Yahweh will rest upon him, the Spirit of Extraordinary Wisdom, the Spirit of Perfect Understanding, the Spirit of Wise Strategy, the Spirit of Mighty Power, the Spirit of Revelation, and the Spirit of the Fear of Yahweh." 
Isaiah11:3 He will find his delight in living by the Spirit of the Fear of the Lord. He will neither judge by appearances nor make his decisions based on rumors. 
Isaiah11:4 With righteousness he will uphold justice for the poor and defend the lowly of the earth. His words will be like a scepter of power that conquers the world, and with his breath he will slay the lawless one." 
Isaiah11:5 Righteousness will be his warrior’s sash and faithfulness his belt. 
Isaiah11:6 Then the wolf will be subdued and live with the gentle lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the gentle lamb. The young calf and the ferocious lion will be together, and as a shepherd drives his flock, a small child will guide them along!" 
Isaiah11:7 The cow and the bear will graze alongside each other; cubs and calves will lie down together. The lion, like the ox, will eat straw." 
Isaiah11:8 The nursing child will play safely near the rattlesnake’s den, and the toddler will stretch out his hand and shine light over the serpent." 
Isaiah11:9 On all my holy mountain of Zion, nothing evil or harmful will be found. For the earth will be filled with the intimate knowledge of the Lord Yahweh just as water swells the sea!" 
Isaiah11:10 On that day, the root of Jesse will be lifted up as a miracle -sign to rally the people. Gentiles will diligently seek him, and his resting place will be glorious!" 
Isaiah11:11 On that day, the Lord will extend his hand a second time to restore the remnant of his people from Assyria, Egypt, Pathros, Ethiopia, Iran, Iraq, Syria, and the coastlands of the sea." 
Isaiah11:12 He will lift up a banner among the nations and will gather the scattered Jews, and assemble the outcasts of Israel from the four corners of the earth." 
Isaiah11:13 Then Ephraim will be cleansed of envy, and those who are hostile to Judah will be cut off. Ephraim will no longer be jealous of Judah, and Judah will no longer be hostile toward Ephraim." 
Isaiah11:14 But they will swoop down on the slopes of Philistia to the west; together they will plunder the people of the east. They will rule over Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites will obey them." 
Isaiah11:15 The Lord Yahweh will dry up the gulf of the Egyptian Sea. He will raise his hand over the Euphrates, and with the might of his wind, he will split it into seven streams that can be easily crossed in sandals." 
Isaiah11:16 Then there will be a highway leading out of Assyria for his remnant people to return, just as there was for Israel when they were set free from Egypt." 
Isaiah12:1 In that day you will sing, “I praise you, Lord Yahweh, for even though you were angry with me, your anger turned away, and now you tenderly comfort me." 
Isaiah12:2 Behold—God is my salvation! I am confident, unafraid, and I will trust in you.” Yes! The Lord Yah is my might and my melody; he has become my salvation!" 
Isaiah12:3 With triumphant joy you will drink deeply from the wells of salvation. 
Isaiah12:4 In that glorious day, you will say to one another, “Give thanks to the Lord and ask him for more! Tell the world about all that he does! Let them know how magnificent he is!”" 
Isaiah12:5 Sing praises to the Lord, for he has done marvelous wonders, and let his fame be known throughout the earth!" 
Isaiah12:6 Give out a shout of cheer; sing for joy, O people of Zion, for great and mighty is the Holy One of Israel who lives among you!" 
Isaiah13:1 This is the prophecy against Babylon that God revealed to Isaiah, son of Amoz:" 
Isaiah13:2 “Raise high a signal flag on a barren hilltop! Shout out! Beckon my armies to invade the gates of the nobles," 
Isaiah13:3 for I have given orders to my consecrated ones. I have summoned my mighty heroes, those who rejoice in my triumph, that they may execute my anger.”" 
Isaiah13:4 Listen! A thunderous noise is heard on the mountain, like that of a massive multitude. Listen! Kingdoms are in an uproar; nations are assembling together. The almighty Lord Yahweh is mustering an army for war." 
Isaiah13:5 They are coming from a faraway land, from the end of the heavens. Here comes Yahweh with his instruments of judgment, ready to ravage the entire land." 
Isaiah13:6 Wail, for the day of the Lord Yahweh is near! It will come with the destructive power of Shaddai." 
Isaiah13:7 For this reason, every hand will go limp and every heart will melt." 
Isaiah13:8 All the Babylonians will be seized with panic and pain. Anguish will grip them like a woman in labor. They will look at one another with astonishment, and their faces will be flames of fire!" 
Isaiah13:9 Behold! The day of the Lord is coming with pitiless fury and fierce anger. The land will be made desolate, destroying the sinners who inhabit it." 
Isaiah13:10 For the stars of the heavens and their constellations will not give their light. The rising sun will be obscured, and the moon won’t shine." 
Isaiah13:11 “I will bring punishment to the world for its evil and to the wicked for their sins. I will shatter the arrogance of the proud, and will humble the pride of the high and mighty." 
Isaiah13:12 I will make a person scarcer than fine gold and people rarer than a wedge of gold from Ophir. 
Isaiah13:13 Therefore, I will make the heavens shudder and the earth shake from its foundation because of the wrath of the Lord, Commander of Angel Armies, in the day of his fierce anger." 
Isaiah13:14 Like a hunted gazelle, each will return to his own people, and like sheep with no one to gather them, each will flee to his native land." 
Isaiah13:15 Captured ones will be slain, and those who are caught will die by the sword." 
Isaiah13:16 Their infants will be dashed to pieces before their very eyes. Their houses will be looted and their wives raped. 
Isaiah13:17 Behold! I am stirring up the Medes against them, who neither value silver nor delight in gold." 
Isaiah13:18 They will slaughter the young men, and show no pity on infants nor compassion on children.”" 
Isaiah13:19 God will overthrow Babylon, the jewel of kingdoms, the splendor and pride of the Babylonians, exactly as he did to Sodom and Gomorrah." 
Isaiah13:20 Babylon will never rise again, nor will she be inhabited for many generations. Bedouins will not even pitch their tents there, and shepherds will refuse to rest their flocks there." 
Isaiah13:21 Wild animals will roam there, and their vacant houses will be overrun by eerie creatures — nothing but owls and goat-shaped demons dancing!" 
Isaiah13:22 Hyenas will howl in her houses, and jackals will make their dens in her palaces. Babylon’s time is up, and her days are numbered!" 
Isaiah14:1 The Lord Yahweh will most certainly show tender mercy to the Israelites. He will choose them again and settle them in their own land. Even foreigners will accompany them and join with the Jewish people. 
Isaiah14:2 Nations will take them back to their own place, and the Jews will own their enemies as their inheritance in the land Yahweh gave them. They will take their captors captive and rule over those who once oppressed them." 
Isaiah14:3 In that day, when the Lord Yahweh has given you rest from your pain, trouble, and cruel bondage," 
Isaiah14:4 you will jeer at the king of Babylon and recite this proverb: “Your oppressor has been stilled and your onslaught is over! 
Isaiah14:5 The Lord Yahweh has shattered the staff of the wicked, the brutal rod of the rulers." 
Isaiah14:6 With their unceasing blows they used it cruelly to strike down nations. They subdued nations in anger with unrelenting persecution. 
Isaiah14:7 But now the whole earth rests and is at peace. It bursts out with singing; 
Isaiah14:8 even the cypresses and cedars of Lebanon join in, rejoicing over your demise, saying, ‘Now that you were laid low, no woodsman comes to cut us down.’ ”" 
Isaiah14:9 The underworld is all astir in preparation, ready to meet you when you show up. It rouses the spirits of the dead to greet you! All the former tyrants and despots rise from their thrones!" 
Isaiah14:10 One and all will say to you: “ Look at you! You’ve become as weak as we are. Now you’re just like us! 
Isaiah14:11 Your pompous pride brought you down to the underworld with the hum of harps. But you will lie on a bed of maggots, and a blanket of worms will cover you!”" 
Isaiah14:12 “Look how you have fallen from your heavenly place, O shining one, son of the dawn! You have been cut down to the ground, you who conquered nations." 
Isaiah14:13 You said in your heart, ‘I will ascend into heaven and exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will rule on the mountain of the congregation, on the highest place of the sacred mountain." 
Isaiah14:14 I will rise past the tops of the clouds and rival the Most High God!’ 
Isaiah14:15 Yet down to the underworld you go— into the depths of the pit! 
Isaiah14:16 Everyone will stare at you and ponder your fate, saying, ‘Is this the man who shook the earth and made the kingdoms tremble?" 
Isaiah14:17 Is this the man who made the world a desert and overthrew its cities and refused to free his prisoners and let them return home?’ 
Isaiah14:18 Every king at death lies in state, each in his crypt of splendor," 
Isaiah14:19 but you are an unburied, trampled corpse, thrown out of your grave like a rotten stick and wrapped in the bloody clothing of those slain by the sword." 
Isaiah14:20 You will not have a burial like them, because you destroyed both your land and your people. May your wicked descendants never be mentioned again!" 
Isaiah14:21 Prepare to execute his sons because of the sins of their father. May they never rise to conquer the earth and cover the world with their cities.” 
Isaiah14:22 “I will rise up against them,” declares the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “I will blot out the name Babylon and her survivors, her offspring and descendants,” declares the Lord Yahweh." 
Isaiah14:23 “I will turn it into a swampland and a place for wild animals. Like dirt on the floor I will sweep it away with the broom of destruction,” declares the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Isaiah14:24 The Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, makes this solemn decree: “Be sure of this: Just as I have planned, so it will be. Every purpose of my heart will surely come to pass." 
Isaiah14:25 I will crush the Assyrians who invade my land. I will trample them on my mountains. Their yoke of slavery will be removed from my people and their heavy burden from their shoulders. 
Isaiah14:26 This is the plan that I have determined for the entire world. I will accomplish it by the demonstration of my mighty power throughout the earth!” 
Isaiah14:27 For the Lord Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, has an amazing strategy, and who can thwart him? When he moves in power, who can stop him?" 
Isaiah14:28 This prophecy came to Isaiah in the year King Ahaz died: Don’t rejoice too soon, you Philistines, just because the rod that beat you is broken!" 
Isaiah14:29 A snake will sprout from the root of that serpent, and his descendant will be like a flying, fiery, burning one." 
Isaiah14:30 And through him the poorest of the poor will find pasture and the needy will lie down in peace. The Lord will starve the root of the Philistines with a famine that will annihilate your survivors. 
Isaiah14:31 Wail, O gate! Cry out, O city! Melt with fear, Philistia! For a cloud of smoke comes out of the north, and there is no straggler among them." 
Isaiah14:32 And what will be the answer of the messengers of the nations? That the Lord has laid the foundation of Zion, and in her his needy ones will find shelter." 
Isaiah15:1 Here is a prophecy concerning Moab: The city of Ar was devastated, destroyed in the night. The city of Kir was devastated, destroyed in the night." 
Isaiah15:2 The people of Dibon went to their temple to weep; they went up to their high places to lament. Moab wails with sorrow over what happened to Mount Nebo and Mount Medeba. Humiliated, every head is shaved bald and every beard cut off." 
Isaiah15:3 They pour into the streets wearing sackcloth. In public and in private, they fall down sobbing." 
Isaiah15:4 The cities of Heshbon and Elealah cry out; their voices are heard as far away as Jahaz; even the bravest warriors of Moab are shaken to the core. 
Isaiah15:5 My heart cries out for the people of Moab, for her fugitives who flee to Zoar and to Eglath-shelishiyah. Weeping, they climb the upward road to Luhith. Their loud cries of anguish are heard all along the way to Horonaim." 
Isaiah15:6 The River Nimrim has dried up; the grass has withered; new growth has failed, and vegetation has vanished." 
Isaiah15:7 Therefore, the refugees take with them over the Wadi of the Willows their possessions and the wealth they have acquired." 
Isaiah15:8 From one end of the land to the other, Moab is weeping; her wailing reaches to Eglaim and Beer-Elim." 
Isaiah15:9 For the waters of Dimon are full of blood, but I have something even worse in store for them: lions for the fugitives of Moab and upon the remnant of the land!" 
Isaiah16:1 Send a flock of lambs from the rock of the desert as a gift to the leaders in Jerusalem, to the mountain of the Daughter of Zion." 
Isaiah16:2 At the banks of the River Arnon, the women of Moab are like newly hatched, fluttering birds." 
Isaiah16:3 They say, “Make a decision! Give us shelter. Hide the fugitives. Don’t betray them!" 
Isaiah16:4 Allow the Moabite fugitives to stay with you. Be a shelter for them from the destroyer!” One day the oppressor will be no more. The destroyer will come to an end, and the tyrant will vanish from the land." 
Isaiah16:5 Then a government of unfailing love will be established, with a faithful king in the tabernacle of David, passionate for justice and swift to do what is right." 
Isaiah16:6 We have heard about Moab’s pride. How haughty she is—filled with arrogance and insolence, with nothing more than empty boasts!" 
Isaiah16:7 So now Moab will wail; everyone will wail over the ruin of their country. Lament and grieve for the foundations of Kir-Hareseth. 
Isaiah16:8 All the lush fields of Heshbon are dried up. The vineyards of Sibmah have struck down the lords of nations, whose vines reached northward to Jazer and spread to the desert. Their shoots spread out and extend across the Dead Sea." 
Isaiah16:9 So I weep along with Jazer over the vines of Sibmah. I drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh, for the shouts of joy over the harvest of fruit and grain have ceased." 
Isaiah16:10 Joyful celebrations are stilled in the orchards; in the vineyards, no one sings or shouts, and no one treads out wine in the presses. I have silenced your gleeful shouts." 
Isaiah16:11 Like harp strings, my heartstrings throb for Moab, and my inner being sighs for your broken walls, Kir-Hareseth." 
Isaiah16:12 When Moab comes to their high places to plead with all their might and enter their temples to pray, it will have no effect." 
Isaiah16:13 This was the word the Lord Yahweh spoke in the past about Moab," 
Isaiah16:14 but now the Lord Yahweh says, “In exactly three years, the splendor of Moab and her huge population will shrink to nothing; only a small and feeble remnant will remain.”" 
Isaiah17:1 This is God’s message for Damascus: “Behold, Damascus is gone! It is no longer a city, only a heap of rubble." 
Isaiah17:2 Her ruins will be abandoned— left for flocks to lie down in with nothing to fear. 
Isaiah17:3 Damascus will lose the power of her fortress, and the strongholds of the northern kingdom will disappear. The remnant of Syria will be like Israel— stripped of its glory,” says the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Isaiah17:4 “On that day, the beautiful splendor of Jacob’s northern tribes will be brought low, and they will become like skin and bones." 
Isaiah17:5 It will be as when a farmer harvests the standing grain and gathers armloads of grain, and as one gathers ears of grain in the Valley of Giants." 
Isaiah17:6 Yet some gleanings will remain, as when an olive tree is shaken, leaving two or three olives in the highest branches and four or five on its fruitful branches,” declares Lord Yahweh, the God of Israel." 
Isaiah17:7 In that day, people will gaze toward their Creator, and their eyes will look in faith toward the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah17:8 They will not be infatuated with the religious altars their own hands crafted, nor by what their own fingers have made, nor with their sacred groves or altars of incense." 
Isaiah17:9 On that day their bustling cities will become deserted like those conquered by the Israelites— abandoned to thickets and undergrowth, it will all become desolate." 
Isaiah17:10 For you have ignored and forgotten the God who saves you and have not remembered your Rock of Safety. So what do you do? You cultivate your beautiful gardens and plant imported vines. 
Isaiah17:11 Even if on the day you plant them they begin to grow, and even if immediately you see them bud, your harvest will wither away in a day of grief and agony." 
Isaiah17:12 Ah, the thunder of many people joining together! They roar like the roar of the sea. Woe to the uproar of the many nations! They thunder like the crashing of ocean waves." 
Isaiah17:13 The nations are roaring like the roar of a massive waterfall, but when God rebukes them they disperse like chaff on the mountains, like a tumbleweed whirling in the wind." 
Isaiah17:14 In the evening—behold, sudden terror! Before the morning comes, they vanish! Such is the fate of those who plunder and try to rob us." 
Isaiah18:1 Ah, the land of whirring wings, that is beyond the rivers of Cush," 
Isaiah18:2 sending their messengers by the way of the Nile in papyrus vessels gliding on the water! Go, you swift messengers, to a tall, smooth-skinned people feared far and wide, to a mighty conquering nation whose land the rivers divide." 
Isaiah18:3 Everyone everywhere, all who dwell on the earth, when a signal flag is raised on the mountain, take notice! When the shofar is blown, listen!" 
Isaiah18:4 Here is what the Lord Yahweh said to me: “I will rest calm and confident as I look from my dwelling place, serene as on a pleasant summer day or as a cool, refreshing cloud in the heat of harvest.”" 
Isaiah18:5 Before the harvest, when the bud is ripening and the flower finishes, he will take his pruning hooks and cut off the shoots and remove them." 
Isaiah18:6 They will all be left for the birds of prey on the mountains and for the wild animals to devour. Birds will eat them throughout the summer, and the animals will gnaw on the bones of the fallen all winter." 
Isaiah18:7 At that time, a tall, smooth-skinned people will bring gifts of tribute to the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. They are a people feared far and wide, a mighty conquering nation whose land the rivers divide. They will bring their gifts to Mount Zion, the place of the name of the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Isaiah19:1 A prophecy concerning Egypt: Behold! The Lord Yahweh is riding on a swift-soaring cloud! He is on his way to Egypt! The god-idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence, and the hearts of the Egyptians will melt within them!" 
Isaiah19:2 “I will stir up civil strife and cause the Egyptians to fight against one another— one against the other, neighbor against neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom." 
Isaiah19:3 The spirit of the Egyptians will be in panic, and I will confuse their strategies. They will seek guidance from their idols and by the spirits of the dead and consult with mediums and wizards." 
Isaiah19:4 I will give over the Egyptians into the hands of a cruel master; a brutal king will rule over them,” says the sovereign God, the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Isaiah19:5 The Nile delta will dry up and the riverbed will become parched and dry. 
Isaiah19:6 Its canals will become stagnant and stink with rotting reeds, and the streams of Egypt will dry up, from a trickle to nothing." 
Isaiah19:7 All that is planted by the mouth of the river will dry up, and the fields along the brooks will wither and turn to dust blown away by the wind." 
Isaiah19:8 Fishermen will mourn. All who cast a fishhook into the river and those who cast their nets will catch nothing. 
Isaiah19:9 Those who make clothing from combed flax will despair, and the weavers of linen will be distressed." 
Isaiah19:10 The pillars of Egypt’s foundations will be shattered and every worker grieved. 
Isaiah19:11 The elite of Zoan are nothing but fools, and the wisest of Pharaoh’s counselors gives foolish advice. How in the world can you say to Pharaoh, “I am a brilliant sage and a descendant of the ancient kings”?" 
Isaiah19:12 Where, oh where, are all your sages? If they’re so wise, let them discover and tell you what the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has planned for Egypt." 
Isaiah19:13 Zoan’s elite have become utter fools; the nobles of Memphis are utterly deceived, and Egypt has been led astray by her tribal chiefs." 
Isaiah19:14 The Lord Yahweh has mixed up their minds and poured into them a distorted spirit that will make Egypt dizzy and act like a drunk who staggers around in his own vomit. 
Isaiah19:15 There is nothing anyone in Egypt can do— neither head nor tail, nor anyone of high or low position." 
Isaiah19:16 In that day, the Egyptians will become like women who tremble in fear because the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, shakes his fist at them." 
Isaiah19:17 The land of Judah will become the dread of the Egyptians. They will quake whenever anybody even mentions it to them, because of what the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has in store for them!" 
Isaiah19:18 In that day, there will be five Egyptian cities that speak the language of Canaan and swear their allegiance to the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, and one will be called the City of the Sun." 
Isaiah19:19 In that day, there will be an altar to the Lord Yahweh in the middle of Egypt and a sacred monument to honor him on her border." 
Isaiah19:20 It will be a sign and a visible reminder in the land of Egypt of the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. And they will cry out to him when they are oppressed, and he will send a mighty deliverer and champion to their rescue!" 
Isaiah19:21 The Lord Yahweh will reveal to them who he really is, and the Egyptians will know him intimately. They will worship him with sacrifices and burnt offerings. They will make vows to the Lord Yahweh, and they will keep them." 
Isaiah19:22 The Lord Yahweh will wound the Egyptians, but when they turn back to him, he will heal them. Yes, the Lord Yahweh will listen to their hearts’ cry, and he will heal and restore them." 
Isaiah19:23 In that day there will be a highway all the way from Egypt to Assyria. Like long-lost brothers, the Egyptians and the Assyrians will be joined together and they will worship and serve the Lord Yahweh! And in that day, Israel will become the third partner with Egypt and Assyria as a blessing to all the earth. For the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will bless them, saying, “Blessed be Egypt, my people! Blessed be Assyria, my handiwork! And blessed be Israel, my inheritance!”" 
Isaiah20:1 In the year that the Assyrian king Sargon sent his supreme commander to attack Ashdod, he came and captured it." 
Isaiah20:2 At that time the Lord Yahweh said to Isaiah, the son of Amoz, “Take off your clothes and sandals.” Isaiah did as he was told and walked about naked and barefoot." 
Isaiah20:3 Then the Lord Yahweh said, “Just as my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years as a prophetic sign and a wonder as a warning of what is coming to Egypt and Cush," 
Isaiah20:4 so will the king of Assyria lead away the captives of Egypt and Cush, both young and old. They will be stripped and barefoot, with buttocks bared, to publicly humiliate Egypt." 
Isaiah20:5 And those who put their hope in ‘glorious Cush’ and ‘mighty Egypt,’ will be shattered and totally ashamed.”" 
Isaiah20:6 When that day comes, those who live in the coastal region of Philistia will say, “Oh no! If this is what happened to those we hoped would come and rescue us from the Assyrian king, what chance do we have of escape?”" 
Isaiah21:1 Here is a prophecy concerning Babylon, the Desert by the Sea: As whirlwinds rushing in from the southland, an invader comes in from the desert, from a land to be feared." 
Isaiah21:2 A terrifying revelation has been given to me: The betrayer betrays; the destroyer destroys. Arise, you Elamites! Lay siege, you Medes! I will put an end to all the grief she brought to the nations." 
Isaiah21:3 There’s a churning deep inside me, like labor pains of a woman about to give birth. I’m too anguished by what I hear and too frightened by what I see." 
Isaiah21:4 My mind is reeling; I’m filled with panic. I longed for twilight, but now I tremble through the night." 
Isaiah21:5 I see them prepare the table and spread their rugs, then they eat and they drink. Get up, you military officers! Anoint your shields for battle!" 
Isaiah21:6 For this is what the Lord said to me: “Go post a sentry and have him report what he sees. 
Isaiah21:7 When he sees them come with chariots and advancing warriors riding on horses, donkeys, and camels, let him be alert—extremely alert!”" 
Isaiah21:8 Then the sentry cries out, “I continually stand on this watchtower day after day for you, O Lord. I’m stationed at my post throughout the night." 
Isaiah21:9 Look! Someone’s coming! It’s a man in a chariot with a team of horses. He shouts out, ‘Fallen, fallen, Babylon has fallen! All the idols of their gods lie shattered on the ground!’ ”" 
Isaiah21:10 My people, lying crushed on the threshing floor, I declare to you what I have heard from the God of Israel, Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies." 
Isaiah21:11 Here is a prophecy about Dumah: Someone keeps calling me from the land of Edom, saying, “Watchman, how much longer is the night? Watchman, how much longer is the night?”" 
Isaiah21:12 The watchman answers, “Morning comes, but a dark night endures. If you want to ask again, then come back and ask.”" 
Isaiah21:13 A prophecy concerning Arabia: You caravans from Dedan, you will camp among the thickets in the desert land of Arabia." 
Isaiah21:14 People of Tema, come and bring water to the thirsty and bread for the fugitives." 
Isaiah21:15 For they have fled from the battle, from the drawn swords, from the bent bows, and from the weight of warfare." 
Isaiah21:16 This is what the Sovereign God said to me: “Within exactly one year, all the splendor of Kedar will end." 
Isaiah21:17 And all the weapons left of Kedar’s warriors will be few, for the Lord Yahweh, the God of Israel, has spoken.”" 
Isaiah22:1 A prophecy concerning the “Valley of Vision”: What’s happening with you? Why have you all gone up to the rooftops? 
Isaiah22:2 The whole city is in an uproar. What’s happened to the once happy, bustling city? The bodies of the slain litter your streets. They were not slain by the sword on the battlefield but executed." 
Isaiah22:3 All your leaders have fled far away, and those who were found were taken captive— before they even shot a single arrow." 
Isaiah22:4 That is why I said, “Leave me alone to weep my bitter tears. Don’t even try to comfort me concerning my beloved people being destroyed.”" 
Isaiah22:5 The Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has a day in store—a day of tumult, trampling, and terror in the “Valley of Vision.” It is a day when they breach the walls and the people cry out to the mountain of holiness." 
Isaiah22:6 The soldiers of Elam attacked with chariots and cavalry, armed with bows and arrows. The troops of Kir advanced with shields ready." 
Isaiah22:7 Your lush valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen took their stand at your gates." 
Isaiah22:8 He removed his protection from Judah. In that day, you looked for additional weapons from the storehouse of the Forest of Lebanon." 
Isaiah22:9 You discovered the many breaches in the City of David, and you collected water in the lower pool." 
Isaiah22:10 You inspected the houses in Jerusalem and tore some down to fortify the wall. 
Isaiah22:11 You built a reservoir between the two walls in the city to conserve water flowing down from the old pool, but you gave no thought to the one who made it. You did not trust in the one who formed it long ago!" 
Isaiah22:12 In that day, the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, called you to repent with weeping and mourning and to show your remorse by shaving your heads and wearing sackcloth." 
Isaiah22:13 But instead, you celebrated with joy and festivity, slaughtering the sheep and the fatted ox, saying, “We will feast on meat and drink much wine. Eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.”" 
Isaiah22:14 Revealed in my ears are the words of the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies: “Until your dying day, certainly I will not forgive this sin.”" 
Isaiah22:15 This is what the Lord Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, has to say: “Go to Shebna, the treasurer of the palace, and say to him," 
Isaiah22:16 ‘What right do you have to be here, and who gave you permission? And why do you chisel out a tomb for yourself here, carving out your royal burial place, a dwelling place in the rock?" 
Isaiah22:17 Watch out, O strong man, for the Lord is about to seize you and hurl you down." 
Isaiah22:18 He will sling you around and around and throw you like a ball into a distant, barren land. There you will die, and all your splendid chariots will lie there in the dust. You are a disgrace to your master’s house!" 
Isaiah22:19 I will kick you out of office and pull you down from your high position!’ 
Isaiah22:20 “On that day, I will appoint my servant Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, to take your place." 
Isaiah22:21 I will honor him by clothing him with your robe and binding your priestly sash upon him. I will transfer your authority into his hands, and he will be a father to those living in Jerusalem and to the people of Judah." 
Isaiah22:22 I will place upon his shoulders the key to the treasures of David’s palace. He will open doors that no one can shut, and he will shut doors that no one can open." 
Isaiah22:23 I will strike a blow to him as a nail in a secure place, and he will be a glorious throne of honor for his father’s house." 
Isaiah22:24 All the glory of his father’s house they will fasten to him, including offspring and branches that will trust in him. Every vessel, jar, and bowl, both small and great, will be fastened to him." 
Isaiah22:25 “And in that day,” declares the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, “the nail fastened in a secure place will give way and be cut off and fall. And all the load hanging on it will fall off.” The Lord Yahweh has spoken." 
Isaiah23:1 A prophecy for Tyre and Sidon: Wail, you cargo ships of Tarshish! For Tyre, your port city, has fallen without a house or a harbor! Word has come to them from the land of Cyprus." 
Isaiah23:2 Be silent, you inhabitants of the coast and you merchants of Sidon, once thronged by seafarers." 
Isaiah23:3 On the great waters your revenue was the grain from the Nile basin. The harvest of the Nile was your revenue. You were merchants who traded with the nations. 
Isaiah23:4 Sidon, be ashamed, for the sea, the stronghold of the sea, declares, “I have never gone into labor to give birth to children, nor have I raised up sons or daughters.”" 
Isaiah23:5 When the Egyptians hear it, they will be stunned over the destruction of Tyre." 
Isaiah23:6 Cross over to Tarshish. Wail, you inhabitants of the coast." 
Isaiah23:7 Is this your once boisterous city, founded so long ago? Is this the city that once sent settlers over the sea?" 
Isaiah23:8 Who has planned this for imperial Tyre, who once wore her crown? Your merchants were nobles, and your traders were honored by the world." 
Isaiah23:9 Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, has planned it! His plan is to eliminate the pride of your presumed splendor and to humiliate the honored of the world." 
Isaiah23:10 Daughter Tarshish, cross over your land as one crosses the Nile, for there is no more harbor marketplace." 
Isaiah23:11 Yahweh has stretched out his hand over the sea of humanity and has shaken the kingdoms of this world. He has given his command to destroy Phoenicia’s fortresses. 
Isaiah23:12 He said, “Fair Sidon, the oppressed one, your celebrating is over. Rise and cross over to Cyprus; even there you will find no rest.”" 
Isaiah23:13 Behold the land of the Babylonians. They are a people who have lost their identity. The Assyrians have made her a home for wild animals. They erected siege towers against her, demolished her palaces, and made her a heap of ruins." 
Isaiah23:14 Wail, you merchant ships of Tarshish, for your fortress is destroyed." 
Isaiah23:15 In that day, Tyre will remain forgotten for seventy years, equal to the life span of a king. After seventy years, it will happen to Tyre as in the song about the prostitute:" 
Isaiah23:16 Take a harp and go about the city, you prostitute long forgotten. Make your sweet melody and sing many songs so that you will be remembered again." 
Isaiah23:17 At the end of seventy years, the Lord Yahweh will restore Tyre, but she will return to her trade. She will prostitute herself again with every kingdom of the world." 
Isaiah23:18 But her merchandise and earnings will be set apart as holy to the Lord Yahweh. They will neither be stored nor hoarded, but they will supply abundant food and splendid garments for those who live in the presence of the Lord Yahweh!" 
Isaiah24:1 Behold! The Lord Yahweh is about to devastate the earth and make it desolate. He will mar its surface and scatter the inhabitants. 
Isaiah24:2 Everyone will experience the same fate— priests and people, masters and slaves, their maids and mistresses, buyers and sellers, lenders and borrowers, rich and poor." 
Isaiah24:3 The earth will be utterly devastated and ruined, for the Lord Yahweh has spoken this word!" 
Isaiah24:4 The ground itself mourns and withers; the soil languishes over the sins of its people, and the wealthy elite wither and languish." 
Isaiah24:5 The people have polluted the earth beneath their feet by disobeying laws, violating truth, and breaking the ancient, everlasting covenant." 
Isaiah24:6 Therefore a curse devours the earth; its people suffer under their guilt, causing earth’s inhabitants to dwindle, and their number is reduced to so few." 
Isaiah24:7 The new wine dries up, the vine withers, and all the party-goers groan with disappointment." 
Isaiah24:8 The joyful mirth of the tambourines is stilled, the jubilant noise of the revelers is ended, and the happy sound of the harp falls silent." 
Isaiah24:9 No more wine and song! Hard liquor has become bitter to those who drink it. 
Isaiah24:10 The city lies in chaos, and no one can enter." 
Isaiah24:11 Riots break out because there is no wine. The sun has set on their gladness and joy; celebrations have disappeared from the earth. 
Isaiah24:12 The city is left desolate with her gates battered down. 
Isaiah24:13 As an olive tree is shaken clean of its olives and a grapevine picked clean of its grapes, so will be the fate of the nations." 
Isaiah24:14 The remnant lifts up its voice with a joyful shout. From the west they praise the majesty of the Lord Yahweh," 
Isaiah24:15 and in the east they give glory to the Lord God! The coastlands magnify the name of Yahweh, the Lord God of Israel!" 
Isaiah24:16 From all over the world we hear their songs of praise— songs of glory and beauty to the Righteous One! But I said, “I feel I’m wasting away. I’m doomed; I’m wasting away.” With deception, deceivers deceive! With treachery, the treacherous betray!" 
Isaiah24:17 Terror, pit, and trap are waiting for you, inhabitants of the earth." 
Isaiah24:18 The one who flees from the report of terror will fall into the pit. And whoever crawls out of the pit will be caught by the trap. Heaven’s floodgates opened and earth’s foundations trembled. 
Isaiah24:19 The earth is breaking, breaking! The earth is crumbling, crumbling! The earth is tottering, tottering!" 
Isaiah24:20 The earth staggers like a drunkard, as a hut sways in a storm. Its sin lies heavy upon it; it falls to rise no more." 
Isaiah24:21 In that day, the Lord Yahweh will punish heaven’s host and the kings of the earth." 
Isaiah24:22 They will be gathered together and locked up in a prison like prisoners in a pit, and after many days, they will be punished." 
Isaiah24:23 Then the sun and moon will hang their heads in shame, for Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will reign! He will manifest his glory on Mount Zion in Jerusalem, before all her elders!" 
Isaiah25:1 Lord Yahweh, you are my glorious God! I will exalt you and praise your name forever, for you have done so many wonderful things. Well-thought-out plans you formed in ages past— you’ve been faithful and true to fulfill them all!" 
Isaiah25:2 The city that was once mighty you’ve turned into a heap of rubble; the fortified city now lies in ruins. The foreigner’s fortress is no more and will never be rebuilt. 
Isaiah25:3 Therefore, superpower nations will glorify you and the cities of terrorist nations will revere you." 
Isaiah25:4 You have been a fortress-protector for the poor, a mighty stronghold for the needy in their distress, a shelter from the sudden storm, and a shade from the shimmering heat of the day. For the fury of tyrants was like a winter windstorm battering against the wall," 
Isaiah25:5 and like the heat of a drought in a desert land; but you subdued the heat under the shade of clouds. You alone silence the song of tyrants. 
Isaiah25:6 The Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will host a rich feast on this mountain for all peoples— a feast with plenty of meat and well-aged wine, with an abundance of food and the finest of wine." 
Isaiah25:7 And on this mountain, he will destroy the shroud wrapped around all the people, the veil spread over all nations." 
Isaiah25:8 It is the gloom of death! He will swallow it up in victory forever! And God, Lord Yahweh, will wipe away every tear from every face. He will remove every trace of disgrace that his people have suffered throughout the world, for the Lord Yahweh has promised it!" 
Isaiah25:9 In that day they will say, “Behold! This is our God! We’ve waited for him, and he saved us! This one, the Lord Yahweh —he is worth the wait! We will keep shouting with joy as we find our bliss in his salvation-kiss!”" 
Isaiah25:10 The mighty, gracious hand of the Lord Yahweh will rest upon this mountain, but the Moabites will be trampled under his feet as straw gets trampled into the manure." 
Isaiah25:11 They will stretch out their arms in it like a swimmer stretches out his arms to swim, yet God will bring down their pride, and they will thrash and sink despite their struggle." 
Isaiah25:12 He will tear down the high walls of Moab’s fortresses and flatten them into the dust. 
Isaiah26:1 A day is coming when this song will be sung in the land of Judah: “The city is a stronghold for us! The Lord’s salvation, like inner and outer walls, makes it secure." 
Isaiah26:2 Open the gates and let a righteous, faith-filled people enter in." 
Isaiah26:3 Perfect, absolute peace surrounds those whose imaginations are consumed with you; they confidently trust in you." 
Isaiah26:4 Yes, trust in the Lord Yahweh forever and ever! For Yah, the Lord God, is your Rock of Ages!" 
Isaiah26:5 He knocks down the high and mighty, and the lofty city he humbles and levels down to the dust," 
Isaiah26:6 to be trampled down by the feet of the poor and exploited.” 
Isaiah26:7 The path of the righteous is smooth and level; God, the Just One, you make a clear path for them." 
Isaiah26:8 Yes, we will follow your ways, Lord Yahweh, and entwine our hearts with yours, for the fame of your name is all that we desire." 
Isaiah26:9 At night I yearn for you with all my heart; in the morning my spirit reaches out to you. When you display your judgments on the earth, people learn the ways of righteousness." 
Isaiah26:10 But when mercy is shown to scoundrels, they still aren’t able to learn righteousness. Even in a land of integrity, they still do wrong, for they ignore the great majesty of the Lord Yahweh." 
Isaiah26:11 Lord Yahweh, you lift your mighty hand, but they do not see it. Let them witness how much you love your people and be ashamed. Let the fire reserved for your enemies consume them." 
Isaiah26:12 Lord Yahweh, you will establish peace and prosperity for us, for all we have accomplished is the result of what you work through us." 
Isaiah26:13 Lord Yahweh, our God, other lords have ruled over us, but we praise your name alone." 
Isaiah26:14 Their dead don’t come back to life; their ghosts do not rise. For you have punished and destroyed them, wiping out even the memory of them." 
Isaiah26:15 You have made our nation grow! Lord Yahweh, you have made our nation grow; you have revealed your glory, and you have extended all the borders of the land." 
Isaiah26:16 Lord Yahweh, in their distress, they reached out to you. When you chastened them, they poured out prayer to you." 
Isaiah26:17 Lord Yahweh, we were like a pregnant woman going into labor pains— writhing, screaming, and ready to deliver, all because of you." 
Isaiah26:18 We were full term. We pushed and strained, but we gave birth only to wind! We accomplished nothing and have not brought deliverance into the world, nor its inhabitants new life." 
Isaiah26:19 But your dead will live again! Their bodies will rise from the dead! It’s time to awaken and sing for joy, you dwellers in the dust! As the glistening, radiant dew refreshes the earth, so the Lord will awaken those dwelling among the dead." 
Isaiah26:20 Go, my people, into your inner chambers and close the doors behind you. Hide for a little while, until his indignation is over." 
Isaiah26:21 For the Lord is coming out from his heavenly place to punish people for their sins. The earth itself will expose the blood spilled upon it, and the ground will no longer hide its slain." 
Isaiah27:1 In that day, the Lord Yahweh will mercilessly wield his massive, mighty sword and punish Leviathan, the swift, slithering serpent. He will slay the dragon of the sea — Leviathan, the twisting serpent." 
Isaiah27:2 In that day, they will sing the song “The Vineyard of Delight.”" 
Isaiah27:3 “I, the Lord, watch over my vineyard of delight. Moment by moment, I water it in love and protect it day and night." 
Isaiah27:4 There is no anger in me, for if I found briars and thorns I would burn them up and march to battle against them." 
Isaiah27:5 So let the branches cling to my protection when they make true peace with me. Yes, let them make me their friend.”" 
Isaiah27:6 The coming ones of Jacob’s tribes will take root. Israel’s branches will bud and blossom, and her beautiful fruit will cover the face of the earth." 
Isaiah27:7 Has Yahweh struck Israel as other nations have struck her? Has Israel been killed like her enemies have been killed? 
Isaiah27:8 No, but with measured justice he exiled them and contended with them. He removed them from the land with his severe blast on the day his searing east wind blew." 
Isaiah27:9 By the mercy of Yahweh the guilt of Jacob will be forgiven. Yet the full proof of their forgiveness will be when they crush all the altars to false gods and make them into chalkstones, crushed to pieces, with neither cultic poles nor incense altars still standing." 
Isaiah27:10 The fortified city lies in ruins, forsaken and deserted like a wilderness. Cattle graze there and lie down, chewing on twigs and branches." 
Isaiah27:11 The trees are withered and stripped bare, and their women gather dead branches for firewood, because they are a people of no understanding. That is why their Maker will show them no compassion, and he who formed them will show them no favor." 
Isaiah27:12 In that day, from the Egyptian border to the Euphrates, the Lord Yahweh will gather one by one the people of Israel, as one sifts wheat from the chaff." 
Isaiah27:13 When that day comes, a great trumpet will sound, and those lost in the land of Assyria and Egypt— all the exiles —will come and bow down before the Lord Yahweh in Jerusalem and worship him on the holy mountain!" 
Isaiah28:1 Woe to the pride of Israel’s drunkards, worn like a garland on their heads! Their glory is but wilted flowers, worn like a crown on the heads of those bloated with rich food and overcome by wine." 
Isaiah28:2 Behold! The Lord has one who is strong and mighty, and he will come like a hailstorm and like a destroying wind! With a storm of massive, flooding waters, his mighty power will knock it to the ground." 
Isaiah28:3 That proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trampled underfoot," 
Isaiah28:4 and the glory of these proud leaders will fade and disappear like the first figs of the season, which are picked and eaten as soon as they are ripe." 
Isaiah28:5 In that day, Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will be a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty for the remnant of his people." 
Isaiah28:6 He will be a Spirit of justice for judges to render right decisions. And he will be strength and bravery for those who turn back the battle at the gate. 
Isaiah28:7 Moreover, the prophets and priests are drunk. They stagger because of wine and stumble around because of strong drink. They are confused with wine, stumbling because of strong drink. They’re too drunk to understand their prophetic visions. They’re too drunk to render right decisions in judgment." 
Isaiah28:8 All of their banqueting tables are covered with filthy vomit; vomit is everywhere! 
Isaiah28:9 They say, “Who does this prophet think he is to try to teach us? Who really cares about his message? It’s only good for babies just learning to talk." 
Isaiah28:10 Do, do this, and do, do that, a rule about this and a rule about that, here a little, there a little.”" 
Isaiah28:11 Since they won’t listen to me, God will use another mouthpiece to speak to them. With stammering lips and in a foreign language, he will speak to this people." 
Isaiah28:12 For he has said to them, “This is your rest, so let the weary rest; this is your comfort”—but they would not listen." 
Isaiah28:13 Therefore, the word of Yahweh will be to them “Do, do this, and do, do that, a rule about this and a rule about that, here a little, there a little,” in order that they will stumble backward and be broken and captured." 
Isaiah28:14 Therefore, listen to the word of Yahweh, you scornful jesters—rulers of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah28:15 For you have said, “We have made a covenant with death and a pact with the underworld, so when the overwhelming scourge sweeps over us, it will not harm us. For we have made lies our refuge and found our shelter in falsehood.”" 
Isaiah28:16 Here’s what the Lord God says: “Behold, I set in place in Zion a Foundation Stone, fully tested and proven to be faithful and secure. And written upon this precious cornerstone is this: ‘Those who trust in him will not act in haste.’" 
Isaiah28:17 I will set justice as the true measurement and integrity as its plumb line. My hailstorm will sweep away your refuge of lies, and my floodwaters will overwhelm your hiding place." 
Isaiah28:18 Then your covenant with death will be annulled and your pact with the underworld will not stand. And when the overwhelming scourge sweeps over you, it will sweep you away!" 
Isaiah28:19 As often as disaster passes by, it will carry you away; morning by morning, day after day, it will sweep you away!” When you fully understand this message, it will bring nothing but terror to you!" 
Isaiah28:20 Your bed is too short to stretch yourself out on, and your covering is too narrow to wrap yourself in." 
Isaiah28:21 The Lord Yahweh will suddenly arise as on Mount Perazim and in the valley of Gibeon. He arises to accomplish his strange work—peculiar as it is— his strange work of judgment. 
Isaiah28:22 So do not mock, or your bonds will grow tighter. For I have heard the decree from my Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. He spoke a decree of destruction against the whole land." 
Isaiah28:23 Hear my voice, listen to my words, and pay close attention to my parable." 
Isaiah28:24 Does a farmer plow continually at planting time and never plant a crop? Does he continually break open the clods of the ground and never sow his seed? 
Isaiah28:25 Once he has leveled its surface, does he not sow dill and cumin, planting his wheat in rows, his barley in its proper place, and his rye in a patch?" 
Isaiah28:26 Yes, his God has instructed him and taught him the right way of farming the land." 
Isaiah28:27 Dill, a small seed, is not threshed with a threshing sledge, nor is a wagon wheel rolled over cumin. Dill is beaten with a rod and cumin with a stick." 
Isaiah28:28 Grain is crushed and milled for bread, but it is not threshed endlessly. One drives the wagon’s wheels over it, but his horses’ hooves do not pulverize it." 
Isaiah28:29 This counsel also comes from Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. For his guidance is unfathomable, and the heavenly wisdom he imparts is magnificent." 
Isaiah29:1 “Woe to Ariel —Ariel, the town where David encamped! Go ahead—keep your annual feasts, and year after year celebrate your annual festivals." 
Isaiah29:2 I will bring distress to Ariel and there will be great mourning. Jerusalem will be to me as the meaning of the name Ariel —a burning altar hearth. 
Isaiah29:3 I will lay siege to you on all sides, encircling you with towers and raising up my siege works against you." 
Isaiah29:4 Brought low, you will speak from the dust of the earth. Your voice will be heard speaking from the ground, and like the voice of a ghost, you will whisper out of the dust." 
Isaiah29:5 Then suddenly, in an instant, your ruthless enemies will become nothing more than dust in the wind and your vile tyrants like wind-driven chaff!" 
Isaiah29:6 She will be visited by the Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, with thunder, earthquake, and deafening noise, with whirlwind, tempest, and the blaze of a consuming fire!" 
Isaiah29:7 As quickly as a fading dream or as fleeting as a vision of the night, so will all the vast hordes of all the nations fade away and all who war against Ariel and her fortress disappear." 
Isaiah29:8 Just as a hungry man dreams that he is eating but wakes up still hungry, or as a thirsty man dreams that he is drinking but wakes up weak and still longing for water, so it will be for the vast hordes of all the nations that fight against Mount Zion.”" 
Isaiah29:9 Be totally shocked and amazed by what I am about to say to you: “Blind yourselves—and be totally blind! (They are drunk but not from wine. They stagger but not from hard liquor.) 
Isaiah29:10 For Yahweh has poured out over you the spirit of a deep, deep sleep — putting the covers over your slumbering seers and rocking all your prophets to sleep.”" 
Isaiah29:11 This entire prophetic revelation will become to you like the words of a sealed book. If it’s given to one who can read it with the command “Read this,” he responds, “I can’t because it is sealed.”" 
Isaiah29:12 Or if it’s given to one who is illiterate with the command “Read this,” he responds, “I can’t because I cannot read.”" 
Isaiah29:13 This is what the Lord says about these people: “They come near to me with hollow words and honor me superficially with their lips; all the while their hearts run far away from me! Their worship is nothing more than man-made rules. 
Isaiah29:14 So therefore, I will again jolt this people awake with astonishing wonders upon wonders! And the wisdom of their wise ones will fail, and the intelligent know-it-alls will have no explanations." 
Isaiah29:15 Woe to you who think you can hide your plan from the Lord Yahweh. Ha! Do you actually think your secret schemes are so hidden that you say, ‘Who sees us doing this? No one knows what we’re doing!’" 
Isaiah29:16 Oh, how great is your perversion! Who is more intelligent—the potter or the clay? Should a created thing say to its creator, ‘You didn’t make me’? Should a clay pot say to the potter, ‘You don’t understand’?”" 
Isaiah29:17 Before you know it, Lebanon will be transformed into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field will seem like a forest." 
Isaiah29:18 In that day the deaf will begin to hear the words that have been written, and out of the darkness and gloom, the eyes of the blind will be opened to see." 
Isaiah29:19 The meek will overflow with fresh joy in the Lord Yahweh, and the poor will shout their praises to the Holy One of Israel!" 
Isaiah29:20 For the terrible one will be no more, the scornful jester will not be found, and all the lovers of evil will be cut off." 
Isaiah29:21 Those who make the innocent appear guilty, those who ensnare others with deceitful tactics, and those who lie to keep the innocent from getting justice will likewise be destroyed." 
Isaiah29:22 So now, listen to what Yahweh, the God of Israel, who redeemed Abraham, has to say to Jacob’s tribes: “My people will no longer be disgraced, and their shame-faces will disappear." 
Isaiah29:23 For when they see the miracle of the many children that I give them, they will see me as holy and honor me. Yes, they will honor the Holy One of Jacob and stand in awe of the God of Israel." 
Isaiah29:24 Those who are in spiritual error will come to understanding, and those who are always complaining will be glad to accept instruction.”" 
Isaiah30:1 This is what Yahweh says: “Woe to the rebellious children, who carry out their own plans but not mine, and who sign treaties without consulting my Spirit, piling one sin upon another." 
Isaiah30:2 You travel down to Egypt to find help without being guided by the words of my mouth. Instead you put your trust in Pharaoh’s protection, seeking shelter in the shadow of Egypt." 
Isaiah30:3 Therefore, Pharaoh’s protection will become your shame, and the shelter of Egypt’s shadow will end in disaster!" 
Isaiah30:4 Though your officials arrive at Zoan and your ambassadors reach as far away as Hanes," 
Isaiah30:5 all will be put to shame because of such unreliable people. They can offer you no help, only shame and disgrace!”" 
Isaiah30:6 This is a prophecy of the desert animals: The burden of the caravan is to traverse a desert land of distress and trouble, a land of the lion and lioness, the snake and the fiery flying one! They carry their riches on the donkey’s back and their treasures on the camel’s hump to a nation that will give them nothing in return!" 
Isaiah30:7 Egypt’s help is utterly worthless; that’s why I nicknamed her Rahab, the Do-Nothing Dragon." 
Isaiah30:8 God told me to write down in a book words meant for the coming generation as an eternal witness. 
Isaiah30:9 For they are stubborn rebels, children always telling lies, who refuse to listen to Yahweh ’s instruction." 
Isaiah30:10 They say to the seers: “Stop seeing your visions.” They say to the prophets: “Stop prophesying to us about what is right. Prophesy only pleasant things to us, even if they’re illusions!" 
Isaiah30:11 Leave this narrow way; turn aside from this harsh path. Don’t confront us anymore with the Holy One of Israel!” 
Isaiah30:12 Therefore, this is what the Holy One of Israel has to say: “Because you have despised this message, and trust in your own clever abilities to deceive, and rely upon oppression," 
Isaiah30:13 your own sin will become like a high, bulging wall that is cracked and about to collapse. In an instant, it will all fall down." 
Isaiah30:14 It will break into pieces like shattered pottery, smashed so ruthlessly that not even a fragment big enough to pick up a hot coal or to scoop water from a cistern will be found!”" 
Isaiah30:15 Lord Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel, says: “Come back to me! By returning and resting in me you will be saved. In quietness and trust you will be made strong. But you refused." 
Isaiah30:16 And though you boast, ‘No! We will flee on horses,’ you will indeed flee for your lives! You say, ‘We will ride on swift horses,’ but your pursuers will be swift to chase you!" 
Isaiah30:17 A thousand will flee at the threat of one, and all will flee at the threat of five, until nothing will be left of you— like a lonely flagstaff on the top of a hill, or like a signpost on a barren mountain!”" 
Isaiah30:18 For this reason the Lord is still waiting to show his favor to you so he can show you his marvelous love. He waits to be gracious to you. He sits on his throne ready to show mercy to you. For Yahweh is the Lord of justice, faithful to keep his promises. Overwhelmed with bliss are all who will entwine their hearts in him, waiting for him to help them." 
Isaiah30:19 Yes, the people of Zion who live in Jerusalem will weep no more. How compassionate he will be when he hears your cries for help! He will answer you when he hears your voice!" 
Isaiah30:20 Even though the Lord may allow you to go through a season of hardship and difficulty, he himself will be there with you. He will not hide himself from you, for your eyes will constantly see him as your Teacher." 
Isaiah30:21 When you turn to the right or turn to the left, you will hear his voice behind you to guide you, saying, “This is the right path; follow it.”" 
Isaiah30:22 Then you will see your idols as they are—unclean! Your silver-overlaid idols and gold-plated images are defiled. You will discard them like a filthy menstrual cloth, saying to them, “Good riddance!”" 
Isaiah30:23 Then God will supply you with abundant rain for the seeds you sow. He will bless you with an incredible, plentiful harvest. And in that day he will give you lush, broad pastures for your cattle." 
Isaiah30:24 Even your oxen and donkeys that work the soil will feed on good grain, separated from its chaff." 
Isaiah30:25 On the day of great slaughter, when all their towers tumble, God will bless you with sparkling streams and bubbling brooks flowing down every high hill and every lofty mountain." 
Isaiah30:26 Moonlight will shine as bright as sunlight, and the sun’s glare will become seven times brighter, like the light of seven days rolled into one. That will be the day when the Lord Yahweh heals the bruises and wounds that he has inflicted." 
Isaiah30:27 Look! Here comes Yahweh with his mighty power and glory! He comes in his awesome splendor with thick clouds! Consumed with anger, his lips are filled with fury, and his words are a devouring fire!" 
Isaiah30:28 His breath is as overwhelming as a flooding river reaching up to the neck. He sifts the nations in his sieve of destruction and places a bridle in their jaws that causes them to wander. 
Isaiah30:29 But you will have a joyous song throughout the night, as one celebrating a holy, consecrated feast. You will have gladness of heart, as one celebrating to the sound of a flute and dancing up the mountain of Yahweh, the Rock who shelters Israel!" 
Isaiah30:30 And Yahweh will cause everyone to hear his awe-inspiring, majestic voice. He will open their eyes to see his mighty power coming down with raging anger and consuming fire! His power will descend in cloudburst, thunderstorm, and hail." 
Isaiah30:31 And when his rod strikes the Assyrians, they will be terror-stricken by the mighty voice of Lord Yahweh." 
Isaiah30:32 Every stroke of Yahweh ’s punishing rod will be to the sound of cymbals and strumming harps. God himself fights them in battle with dancing! 
Isaiah30:33 From long ago, the king’s fiery burial place has been prepared, stacked high with plenty of firewood to fuel the flame. Yahweh ’s breath, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it." 
Isaiah31:1 Woe to those who run down to Egypt for help, trusting in the might of their multitude of cavalry, chariots, and riders. Their confident trust is not in the Holy One of Israel, nor do they consult with Yahweh." 
Isaiah31:2 Yet he is wiser than all of them! He can call down calamity upon evildoers and never needs to retract his words. He will stand up against the wicked and those who protect them. 
Isaiah31:3 The Egyptians are not gods; they’re only human! Their horses are not supernatural; they’re only flesh! When Yahweh demonstrates his power, the helper will stumble and the helped will fall— both will perish together!" 
Isaiah31:4 This is what Yahweh said to me: “When a lion, the great beast, growls over his prey, and when the shepherds band together against him, the lion is neither terrified by their shouts nor disturbed by all the noise they make. So will Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, come down to fight for you on Mount Zion and on Zion’s hill!" 
Isaiah31:5 Just as a bird hovers over its nest to protect its young, so will Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, shield Jerusalem. He will protect her, deliver her, spare her, and rescue her!”" 
Isaiah31:6 “People of Israel! Repent and turn back to God, whom you have deeply betrayed." 
Isaiah31:7 For a time is coming when all people will throw away their sinful idols of silver and gold and forsake all that their own hands have made. 
Isaiah31:8 Assyria will fall by the sword but not the sword of man. It will not be man’s sword that will slaughter them, but God’s! They will run from battle, and their young men will be made slaves." 
Isaiah31:9 Fear will cause them to surrender their high fortress, and they will panic at the sight of princes, and desert their battle flag,” says the Lord God, whose fire burns in Zion and whose furnace burns in Jerusalem!" 
Isaiah32:1 Look—a new era begins! A king will reign with righteousness, and his princes according to justice!" 
Isaiah32:2 A man will be a hiding place from the stormy wind and a secret shelter from the tempest. Life will flow from each one, like streams of water in the desert, like the refreshing shade of a massive rock in a weary, thirsty land." 
Isaiah32:3 Then at last, eyes that are ready to see will finally be opened! Ears that are ready to hear will finally be opened!" 
Isaiah32:4 The hearts of those who were once hasty to form opinions will finally understand and know. And those with stammering tongues will speak dazzling truths! 
Isaiah32:5 The fool will no longer be called Your Honor, nor the scoundrel highly respected," 
Isaiah32:6 for the fool is recognized by his foolish words. Their minds plot treachery, they excel in ungodliness, and they say misleading things about Yahweh. They refuse to feed the hungry or give drink to the thirsty." 
Isaiah32:7 The deceiver’s schemes and plans are evil. He schemes of cheating the poor, even when their plea is just." 
Isaiah32:8 But a person of honor has honorable plans, and his integrity gives him security." 
Isaiah32:9 You careless women, it is time to get up and hear my voice. You complacent daughters, pay attention to what I say." 
Isaiah32:10 Although you are carefree now, you will tremble for many days and years, for your grape harvest will fail and your fruit harvest will not come!" 
Isaiah32:11 Tremble, you careless ones. Take off your fine garments and expose yourselves. Shake with fear and put on sackcloth." 
Isaiah32:12 Beat your breasts in sorrow for your pleasant fields and fruitful vines. 
Isaiah32:13 Mourn for the soil of my people, for it will grow nothing but thorns and briars. Yes, mourn for all the houses of joy in the joyous city," 
Isaiah32:14 for the bustling city with its mansions will be deserted. The high ground and watchtower will be empty, becoming the joy of wild donkeys and a grazing ground for flocks." 
Isaiah32:15 The desolation will not end until the Spirit is poured out upon us from heaven! Then the wilderness will blossom into a fruitful orchard and the trees of the orchard will grow into a forest! 
Isaiah32:16 Then justice will reside in the wilderness and righteousness will dwell in the fruitful orchard. 
Isaiah32:17 The work of righteousness is peace, and the result of righteousness is quietness and confidence forever." 
Isaiah32:18 My people will live free from worry in secure homes and quiet resting places. 
Isaiah32:19 No matter if hail destroys the forest and the city is leveled," 
Isaiah32:20 you will be happy and blessed as you sow your seed beside every stream and loose your ox and donkey to graze freely. 
Isaiah33:1 Woe to you, destroyer, you who have not been destroyed. Woe to you, traitor, you who have not been betrayed. When you have finished your work of destroying, you will be destroyed, and when you have completed your betrayal, you will be betrayed." 
Isaiah33:2 Yahweh, be gracious to us, for we wait for you. Be our strength every morning and rescue us when troubles come." 
Isaiah33:3 The nations retreat at the sound of your roaring voice. The nations scatter as you arise in your majesty. 
Isaiah33:4 Their spoil will be harvested, carried away like locusts that strip a field bare. And like leaping locusts, men will leap upon the spoils." 
Isaiah33:5 Yahweh is high and lifted up; he dwells on high! He lavished his justice and righteousness on Zion! 
Isaiah33:6 He will be your constant source of stability in changing times, and out of his abundant love he gives you the riches of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge. Yes, the fear of the Lord is the key to this treasure!" 
Isaiah33:7 Listen! The valiant ones cry in the streets and envoys of peace weep bitterly. 
Isaiah33:8 The highways are deserted and the travelers have disappeared. Covenants are broken and witnesses rejected, and no one is respected." 
Isaiah33:9 The land mourns and languishes. Lebanon is disgraced and withered. The fields of Sharon are like a desert. The lands of Bashan and Carmel are stripped bare. 
Isaiah33:10 “Now I will arise,” says the Lord. “Now I will exalt myself; now I will unveil my majesty!" 
Isaiah33:11 Assyria, your plans are worthless, as useless as chaff. My breath will be a fire that consumes you." 
Isaiah33:12 As a thorn bush is cut down and thrown into the fire, your nation will be burned to ashes of lime.”" 
Isaiah33:13 “You who are far away, listen to what I have done, and you who draw near to me, acknowledge my power and strength!" 
Isaiah33:14 Sinners in Zion are afraid, and the godless are gripped with panic, saying, ‘Who can dwell with such an all-consuming fire? Who can live in the presence of the never-ending flame?’" 
Isaiah33:15 Only those who walk with integrity and speak what is true, who despise even the thought of cheating the poor, and do not accept a bribe, nor plot violence, nor contemplate doing evil —" 
Isaiah33:16 they will live safely on the heights and make their safe place the mountain strongholds, with bread in steady supply and water assured.”" 
Isaiah33:17 In this high place, your eyes will see the king in his stunning beauty and gaze upon his broad domain." 
Isaiah33:18 You will look back on the fears of your past and say, “Now, where is the scholar? Where is the adviser? Where is the one who numbers those who are maturing?”" 
Isaiah33:19 You will no longer see the defiant foreigner who speaks a strange, incomprehensible language." 
Isaiah33:20 Set your gaze on Zion, the city where we gather for Yahweh ’s feasts. Your eyes will see Jerusalem as a quiet, pleasant place. It is a secure dwelling, permanent and unmovable, not like a tabernacle that must be taken down, its pegs pulled up, and transported." 
Isaiah33:21 Glorious Yahweh will be there for us in a land with broad rivers and life-giving streams, where the hostile, majestic ships will not sail." 
Isaiah33:22 The Lord Yahweh is our Judge, our Lawgiver, and our King; he will save us completely!" 
Isaiah33:23 Your ropes hang loose, your mast is not secure, and your sail is not unfurled. Then there will be a great plunder, such an abundant treasure divided that even the lame will seize their rich share." 
Isaiah33:24 No one living in Zion will say, “I am sick,” for all who live there will have their sin forgiven." 
Isaiah34:1 Come close to me, you nations, and listen! Pay attention to me, you peoples! Let all the world hear me, the earth and all that springs from it." 
Isaiah34:2 For Yahweh has turned his anger toward the nations and his fury against all their armies. He has doomed them to destruction and will annihilate them all. 
Isaiah34:3 Their slain will be cast out, the stench of their corpses will rise, and the mountains will stream with their blood." 
Isaiah34:4 The heavenly powers will fade away to nothing, and the heavens will be rolled up like a scroll. All their mighty host will wither as leaves fall from a withered vine or fruit from a withering fig tree." 
Isaiah34:5 The Lord says: “Indeed, my judgment-sword has appeared in the heavens, and when it has drunk its fill, you will see it descend on the people of Edom, those whom I have doomed to judgment.”" 
Isaiah34:6 Lord Yahweh has a judgment-sword dripping with blood. It is smeared with fat, dripping with the blood of lambs and goats, and covered with the fat of rams’ kidneys. Lord Yahweh has a sacrifice in Bozrah and a great slaughter in the land of Edom." 
Isaiah34:7 Cattle and young bulls will also be slain; their land will be drenched with blood and the dust soaked with fat. 
Isaiah34:8 For Lord Yahweh has a day of vengeance, a year of vindication for Zion’s cause." 
Isaiah34:9 Edom’s streams will be turned to pitch and its soil to sulfur; her land will become blazing pitch. 
Isaiah34:10 Night and day it will never be extinguished; its smoke will go up forever and ever. Through the endless ages it will lie desolate; no one will pass through it forever. 
Isaiah34:11 Nothing but desert hawks and wild animals will live there; owls and ravens will find a home there. The Lord will stretch out over it a measuring line of chaos and the plumb line of emptiness. 
Isaiah34:12 It will be named No Kingdom There, and all its rulers and princes will come to nothing." 
Isaiah34:13 Its palaces will be overgrown with thorns, its fortresses with thistles and briars. It will become a haunt for demons and an abode for owls." 
Isaiah34:14 Wild beasts will mingle with wolves and goat-demons will howl to one another. There too the night-demon will settle in and find her rest. 
Isaiah34:15 There the arrow-snake will build her nest, lay her eggs, and hatch her brood in the shadows. There too the vultures will gather to breed." 
Isaiah34:16 Seek for Yahweh ’s book and read it carefully. You will learn that none of these prophecies will fail; none will lack a fulfillment as its companion. For the Lord has issued his decree. It is his Spirit that has gathered them. 
Isaiah34:17 He is the one who apportioned it to them by lot, whose hand measured the share of each. They will possess it for all time and dwell there throughout the ages." 
Isaiah35:1 The wilderness and dry land will be joyously glad! The desert will blossom like a rose and rejoice! 
Isaiah35:2 Every dry and barren place will burst forth with abundant blossoms, dancing and spinning with delight! Lebanon’s lush splendor covers it, the magnificent beauty of Carmel and Sharon. My people will see the awesome glory of Yahweh, the beautiful grandeur of our God." 
Isaiah35:3 Strengthen those who are discouraged. Energize those who feel defeated. 
Isaiah35:4 Say to the anxious and fearful, “Be strong and never afraid. Look, here comes your God! He is breaking through to give you victory! He comes to avenge your enemies. With divine retribution he comes to save you!”" 
Isaiah35:5 Then blind eyes will open and deaf ears will hear. 
Isaiah35:6 Then the lame will leap like playful deer and the tongue-tied will sing songs of triumph. Gushing water will spring up in the wilderness and streams will flow through the desert. 
Isaiah35:7 The burning sand will become a refreshing oasis, the parched ground bubbling springs, and the dragon’s lair a meadow with grass, reeds, and papyrus." 
Isaiah35:8 There will be a highway of holiness called the Sacred Way. The impure will not be permitted on this road, but it will be accessible to God’s people. And not even fools will lose their way." 
Isaiah35:9 The lion will not be found there; no wild beast will travel on it— they will not be found there. But the redeemed will find a pathway on it. 
Isaiah35:10 Yahweh ’s ransomed ones will return with glee to Zion. They will enter with a song of rejoicing and be crowned with everlasting joy. Ecstatic joy will overwhelm them; weariness and grief will disappear! 
Isaiah36:1 In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah’s reign, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, attacked all the fortified cities of Judah and conquered them." 
Isaiah36:2 After defeating Lachish, Sennacherib sent his chief commander with his massive army from there to King Hezekiah in Jerusalem. He took up a position on the road to the Washerman’s Field, at the end of the aqueduct where it empties into the upper pool." 
Isaiah36:3 And coming out to meet him were three officials of the king: Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, the palace administrator; Shebna, the scribe; and Joah, son of Asaph, the secretary." 
Isaiah36:4 Sennacherib’s commander said to them, “Tell Hezekiah, this is what the exalted king, the king of Assyria, says: ‘What makes you so confident?" 
Isaiah36:5 You think you have a strategy and defensive might, but mere words are no match for my army! In whom are you trusting for help that you rebel against me?" 
Isaiah36:6 I know—you are relying on Egypt, that broken staff full of splinters. If anyone leans on it, it will pierce his hand. Pharaoh himself, king of Egypt, is like that splintered staff to those who put their trust in him! But you tell me that you are trusting in Yahweh, your God. For Hezekiah went around destroying every sacred altar from the land. Didn’t he insist that Judah and Jerusalem had to worship only at this altar in your temple?" 
Isaiah36:8 Now it’s time to make a deal with my master, the king of Assyria. I will give you two thousand horses if you’re able to come up with as many men to ride them." 
Isaiah36:9 You’re no match against even one officer of the least of my master’s officials! Why put your confidence in Egypt’s chariots and horsemen? 
Isaiah36:10 What’s more, do you really think I’ve marched against this land to destroy it on my own without Yahweh ’s approval?’ ”" 
Isaiah36:11 Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah replied, “Please speak to us, your servants, in Aramaic, for we understand it. Don’t speak to us in Hebrew, for the people on the wall are listening to us, and they will overhear our conversation.”" 
Isaiah36:12 But the commander answered them, “Do you think I came to deliver this message from my master only to you and your king? It is also meant for the men sitting there on the wall to hear! They are the ones who will eat their own excrement and drink their own urine!”" 
Isaiah36:13 So the commander stood and shouted out in a loud voice in Hebrew to the men listening on the wall, “Hear the words of the great King Sennacherib, the king of Assyria," 
Isaiah36:14 for he has sent me with these words: ‘Don’t let Hezekiah mislead you, for there is nothing he can do to save you." 
Isaiah36:15 Don’t be deceived when he tries to persuade you to trust in Yahweh, saying to you, “ Yahweh will come to our rescue and our city will not be handed over to the king of Assyria.”" 
Isaiah36:16 Don’t listen to Hezekiah, for the king of Assyria says to you, “Make your peace with me and surrender so that you may continue to eat from your own grapes and figs and drink the water from your own cisterns" 
Isaiah36:17 until I come and take you away to a land like your own. It is a good land of grain and wine, bread and vineyards.”" 
Isaiah36:18 Don’t be deceived by Hezekiah’s empty words when he says to you, “ Yahweh will save us.” Has any god ever saved a nation from the mighty hand of the king of Assyria?" 
Isaiah36:19 Where were the gods of Hamath and Arphad? Where were the gods of Sepharvaim? Did any god save your northern kingdom of Samaria from me? 
Isaiah36:20 Where is there a god that could save its people from my mighty hand?’ ” 
Isaiah36:21 But they were silent, and no one answered him a word, for King Hezekiah had ordered them, “Do not answer him.”" 
Isaiah36:22 So the three officials of Hezekiah—Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, the palace administrator; Shebna, the scribe; and Joah, son of Asaph the secretary—came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn as a sign of despair and reported what the Assyrian commander had said." 
Isaiah37:1 When Hezekiah heard what the commander had said, he tore his robe, put on sackcloth, and went to the temple of Yahweh." 
Isaiah37:2 And he sent Eliakim, the palace administrator; Shebna, the royal scribe; and the leading priests—all clothed in sackcloth—to the prophet Isaiah, son of Amoz." 
Isaiah37:3 They told him, “Here is Hezekiah’s message: ‘This is a day of great anguish, rebuke, and humiliation. We are desperate, as in the day a woman is in heavy labor but has no strength left to give birth." 
Isaiah37:4 Perhaps Lord Yahweh, your God, will take note of all the blasphemous words of the Assyrian commander who was sent by his master, the king of Assyria, to ridicule the living God. And may Lord Yahweh, your God, rebuke him for the words he heard him speak. So therefore, we come to ask you to pray for us, the remnant that still survives.’ ”" 
Isaiah37:5 Isaiah answered the king’s delegation, saying, “Tell your master these words: ‘Here is what Lord Yahweh says about this matter: “Don’t fear or be frightened by the blasphemous words of the servants of the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah37:6  
Isaiah37:7 I will put in him a mindset that will cause him, when he hears a certain rumor, to flee back to his own country. And when he returns I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.” ’ ”" 
Isaiah37:8 Meanwhile, the Assyrian commander returned to the king, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish to lay siege against the city of Libnah." 
Isaiah37:9 Now, King Sennacherib had heard a report that the king of Ethiopia, Tirhakah, had allied with Hezekiah and was coming to fight against him. So when he heard it he sent messengers to Hezekiah with this message:" 
Isaiah37:10 “Don’t let this God in whom you trust mislead you into thinking that Jerusalem will not fall and be delivered into the hand of the mighty king of Assyria. 
Isaiah37:11 Certainly you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands, destroying them all. Do you really think you’ll be delivered?" 
Isaiah37:12 Did any of their gods come to their rescue? Where were the gods of Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the people of Eden, who were in Tel Azzar when my predecessors destroyed their lands?" 
Isaiah37:13 Tell me, where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arphad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, or of Hena or Ivva?”" 
Isaiah37:14 When the messengers delivered Sennacherib’s message to Hezekiah, he read it and immediately went into the temple of Yahweh and spread it out before the Lord." 
Isaiah37:15 And he prayed: 
Isaiah37:16 “O  Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, the God of Israel, you are enthroned between the wings of the cherubim and you reign supreme as God over all the kingdoms of the world, for you alone are Creator of heaven and earth." 
Isaiah37:17 Please lean down to hear my prayer. Yahweh, open your eyes and see me here calling out to you. Listen carefully to every blasphemous word Sennacherib has sent to ridicule and insult you, the living God." 
Isaiah37:18 “Lord Yahweh, truly the Assyrian kings have annihilated all these nations and conquered their lands." 
Isaiah37:19 They smashed and burned their gods, for they’re not truly gods but mere idols made by human hands shaped from wood and stone. That’s why they could be destroyed." 
Isaiah37:20 So now, our loving God, Yahweh, save us from the Assyrians so that the whole world will know that you alone are Yahweh, Lord God Almighty.”" 
Isaiah37:21 Then Isaiah, son of Amoz, sent this message to Hezekiah: “Hear the words of Yahweh, the God of Israel: ‘Because you prayed to me about the taunts of Sennacherib, king of Assyria," 
Isaiah37:22 this is what I, Yahweh, decree concerning him: “ ‘The virgin daughter of Zion despises you and ridicules you. My daughter, Jerusalem, tosses her head back and makes fun of you!" 
Isaiah37:23 Whom do you think you’re mocking and blaspheming? Against whom do you raise your voice? And whom have you looked down upon in your arrogance? None other than me, the Holy One of Israel!" 
Isaiah37:24 You sent your messengers to mock the Lord. You boast, “My vast number of chariots has taken me up the highest mountains, to the heights of Lebanon’s forests. I cut down its loftiest cedars, its choicest cypresses. I ascended its highest peak and claimed its great forests." 
Isaiah37:25 I dug wells and drank foreign water. The feet of my armies trampled the Nile delta dry.” 
Isaiah37:26 “ ‘Have you not learned that I planned all this long ago? Yes, from ages past I planned it, and now I fulfill it, that you would conquer fortified cities and turn them into piles of stones." 
Isaiah37:27 The inhabitants were frightened and ashamed. They became as fragile as weeds and tender grass, as short-lived as the grass that grows on the rooftop and is scorched before the east wind." 
Isaiah37:28 I know where you live, every movement you make, all that you do, and your rage against me." 
Isaiah37:29 I have heard your arrogant words, and because you rage against me, I will put my hook in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will make you return by the way you came." 
Isaiah37:30 “ ‘Hezekiah, this will be a sign for you: This year you will eat only grain that grows of itself. Next year you will eat what comes of that. Then, in the third year, life will be normal again. You will sow and reap, plant vineyards and eat their fruit." 
Isaiah37:31 Judah’s remnant will flourish again, sending deep roots into the ground and bearing luscious fruit above," 
Isaiah37:32 for a remnant will go out from Mount Zion and Jerusalem. The fiery passion of Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will accomplish this!" 
Isaiah37:33 “ ‘Therefore, here is what I, Yahweh, have to say about the king of Assyria: He will neither enter this city, nor shoot even one arrow here, nor raise a warrior’s shield, nor build a siege ramp against Jerusalem." 
Isaiah37:34 I declare that by the way he came, by that same way he will leave. He will not set foot in the city." 
Isaiah37:35 I promise to defend this city and protect it, for the sake of my own honor and for the sake of David, my loving servant.’ ”" 
Isaiah37:36 That night the angel of Yahweh came into the Assyrian camp and slaughtered 185,000 soldiers. When morning dawned, there were only dead bodies in the enemy’s camp!" 
Isaiah37:37 Sennacherib, the great king of Assyria, left, returning the same way he came, and retreated to Nineveh, the Assyrian capital." 
Isaiah37:38 Then one day, as he was worshiping in the temple of his god, Nisroch, his sons, Adrammelech and Sharezer, entered the temple and killed him with swords. They escaped into the land of Ararat and the king’s son Esar-haddon succeeded him." 
Isaiah38:1 Now, Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death. The prophet Isaiah, son of Amoz, came and prophesied to him, saying, “This is what Yahweh has to say to you: Set your affairs in order, for you will not recover from this illness. You are going to die.”" 
Isaiah38:2 Then Hezekiah broke down and wept, turned his face to the wall, and prayed, “O please, Yahweh, please. I beg you, let me live." 
Isaiah38:3 Remember how I have walked faithfully before your face. With all my heart, I have sought to do only what is good in your eyes.” Bitter tears streamed down his face." 
Isaiah38:4 Then Isaiah received another prophetic word for Hezekiah. Yahweh said to him," 
Isaiah38:5 “Go deliver this message to Hezekiah: ‘This is what Yahweh, the God of your ancestor David, has to say to you: I have heard your heartfelt prayer and I have seen you cry tear after bitter tear. I will give you another fifteen years." 
Isaiah38:6 I will defend Jerusalem, and I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah38:7 This will be a sign to you from Yahweh as a confirmation that I will do for you what I have promised. 
Isaiah38:8 I will cause the sun’s shadow to retreat ten steps on the stairway of Ahaz.’ ” Then the sunlight went back up the ten steps it had gone down. 
Isaiah38:9 Here is the poem of Hezekiah, king of Judah, which he wrote when he was healed from his illness:" 
Isaiah38:10 I was dying in the prime of life. I thought, “Must I leave this world now? Must I go through the gates of death and miss out on the rest of my years?”" 
Isaiah38:11 I thought, “I won’t get to see Yah again in the land of the living. No longer will I see my friends or family nor enjoy the company of anyone living on earth." 
Isaiah38:12 My body is being folded up and taken from me, taken down like a shepherd’s tent. He cuts my life short, as a weaver cuts his cloth from the loom and rolls it up. From day to night, you bring my life to an end." 
Isaiah38:13 I felt as though a lion were crushing all my bones as I cried out for help until morning. From day to night, you bring my life to an end." 
Isaiah38:14 I could only chirp like a swallow or small bird; I could only moan like a dove. My eyes are weary from looking up into heaven. Yahweh, I am so depressed. Come and be my strength." 
Isaiah38:15 But what can I say? For he has spoken to me and told me that he is the one who has done this. I can’t sleep a wink because I’m overwhelmed with grief. 
Isaiah38:16 Lord, it is because of your kindness that life is given. It is in you that my spirit lives. Now restore my health and give me life again!" 
Isaiah38:17 Truly, it was for my own good that I had this bitter experience. For you loved my soul out of the pit of oblivion. You cast all my sins behind your back." 
Isaiah38:18 The grave and those buried there cannot praise you. Neither the realm of death nor those who enter it can give you thanks or hope for your faithfulness. 
Isaiah38:19 It’s the living who thank you as I do today. One generation makes your faithfulness known to the next. 
Isaiah38:20 Yahweh is pleased to heal me and save me! We will sing to the music of stringed instruments every day of our lives in Yahweh ’s house.” 
Isaiah38:21 Now, Isaiah had said to Hezekiah, “Have the physicians apply a poultice of cakes of dried figs to your boil, and you will recover.”" 
Isaiah38:22 And Hezekiah had said, “What will be the sign from God that I will be healed and go up again to worship in Yahweh ’s house?”" 
Isaiah39:1 Shortly after Hezekiah was healed of his illness, the king of Babylon, Merodach-Baladan, son of Baladan, heard that King Hezekiah had been deathly ill and had recovered. So he sent envoys carrying letters and a lavish gift." 
Isaiah39:2 Delighted by the king’s gesture, and having a desire to impress them, Hezekiah welcomed the envoys from Babylon and opened the doors of the king’s storehouses of treasures and showed them to the envoys. He let them see all of his gold, silver, spices, and costly fragrant oils, as well as his entire armory. All of the king’s royal treasures, all that was in the king’s palace, and all the wealth of his whole kingdom was shown to them." 
Isaiah39:3 Then Isaiah the prophet visited the king and said to him, “ What have you done? What did these men say and where did they come from?” Hezekiah replied, “They are envoys from distant Babylon.”" 
Isaiah39:4 Then Isaiah asked, “What did they see in your palace?” “They have seen everything in my palace,” responded Hezekiah. “I showed them everything in my royal treasuries.”" 
Isaiah39:5 Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Here is what Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has to say to you:" 
Isaiah39:6 ‘The days are coming when all the treasures in your palace and all the wealth that your ancestors have stored up until this day will be carried off to Babylon; absolutely nothing will be left,’ says the Lord." 
Isaiah39:7 ‘Some of your own sons who come after you will be deported and become high officials in the palace of the king of Babylon.’ ” 
Isaiah39:8 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word Yahweh has spoken through you is good and right.” For he thought, “At least for me, there will be peace and security in my lifetime.”" 
Isaiah40:1 Your God says to you: “Comfort, comfort my people with gentle, compassionate words." 
Isaiah40:2 Speak tenderly from the heart to revive those in Jerusalem, and proclaim that their warfare is over. Her debt of sin is paid for, and she will not be treated as guilty. Prophesy to her that she has received from the hand of Yahweh twice as many blessings as all her sins.”" 
Isaiah40:3 A thunderous voice cries out in the wilderness: “Prepare the way for Yahweh ’s arrival! Make a highway straight through the desert for our God! 
Isaiah40:4 Every valley will be raised up, every mountain brought low. The rugged terrain will become level ground and the rough places a plain." 
Isaiah40:5 Then Yahweh ’s radiant glory will be unveiled, and all humanity will experience it together. Believe it, for Yahweh has spoken his decree!”" 
Isaiah40:6 A voice says, “Cry out!” And I ask, “What should I say?” “All people are as frail as grass, and their elegance is like a wilting wildflower." 
Isaiah40:7 The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of Yahweh blows upon it; the people are just like grass!" 
Isaiah40:8 But even though grass withers and the flower fades, the word of our God stands strong forever!”" 
Isaiah40:9 Go up on a high mountain, you joyful messengers of Zion, and lift up your voices with power. You who proclaim joyous news to Jerusalem, shout it out and don’t be afraid. Say to the cities of Judah, “Here is your God!”" 
Isaiah40:10 Look! Here comes Lord Yahweh as a victorious warrior; he triumphs with his awesome power. Watch as he brings with him his reward and the spoils of victory to give to his people. 
Isaiah40:11 He will care for you as a shepherd tends his flock, gathering the weak lambs and taking them in his arms. He carries them close to his heart and gently leads those that have young." 
Isaiah40:12 Who has measured the waters of the sea in the hollow of his hand and used his hand-width to mark off the heavens? Who knows the exact weight of all the dust of the earth and has weighed all the mountains and hills on his scale? 
Isaiah40:13 Who fully understands the Spirit of Yahweh or is wise enough to counsel him? 
Isaiah40:14 Whom does he consult to be enlightened? Who teaches him the ways of justice? Who imparts knowledge to him or shows him the true path of wisdom? 
Isaiah40:15 Even the nations are to him like a drop in a bucket, regarded as nothing more than dust on a scale. He picks up the islands like fine grains of sand." 
Isaiah40:16 All of Lebanon’s trees are not enough firewood for him, nor are all its animals enough for a burnt offering." 
Isaiah40:17 The nations are nothing in his eyes; he regards them as absolutely nothing. 
Isaiah40:18 Who even comes close to being compared to God? How could you ever compare God to an idol? 
Isaiah40:19 A craftsman forms an idol-god, then a goldsmith overlays it with gold and forges its silver chains." 
Isaiah40:20 The one who is poor and cannot afford silver or gold chooses a tree that will not rot, then seeks a skilled workman to make an idol that will not topple." 
Isaiah40:21 Don’t you realize that God is the Creator? Don’t you hear the truth? Haven’t you been told this from the beginning? Haven’t you understood this since he laid a firm foundation for the earth? 
Isaiah40:22 He sits enthroned high above the circle of the earth; to him the people of earth are like grasshoppers! He stretches out the heavens like a curtain, spreading it open like a tent to live in." 
Isaiah40:23 He reduces rulers to nothing and makes the elite of the earth as nothing at all. 
Isaiah40:24 They barely get planted and barely take root in their position of power when the Lord blows on them and they wither away, carried off like straw in the stormy wind." 
Isaiah40:25 The Holy One asks: “Can you find anyone or anything to compare to me? Where is the one equal to me?” 
Isaiah40:26 Lift up your eyes to the sky and see for yourself. Who do you think created the cosmos? He lit every shining star and formed every glowing galaxy, and stationed them all where they belong. He has numbered, counted, and given each one a name. They shine because of God’s incredible power and awesome might; not one fails to appear!" 
Isaiah40:27 Why, then, O Jacob’s tribes, would you ever complain? And my chosen Israel, why would you say, “ Yahweh isn’t paying attention to my situation. He has lost all interest in what happens to me”?" 
Isaiah40:28 Don’t you know? Haven’t you been listening? Yahweh is the one and only everlasting God, the Creator of all you can see and imagine! He never gets weary or worn out. His intelligence is unlimited; he is never puzzled over what to do!" 
Isaiah40:29 He empowers the feeble and infuses the powerless with increasing strength. 
Isaiah40:30 Even young people faint and get exhausted; athletic ones may stumble and fall. 
Isaiah40:31 But those who entwine their hearts with Yahweh will experience divine strength. They will rise up on soaring wings and fly like eagles, run their races without growing weary, and walk through life without giving up." 
Isaiah41:1 “You lands of the sea, stand silent before me! Let the people renew their strength! Let them approach me and state their case. Let’s come together to decide who is right." 
Isaiah41:2 Who raised up the conqueror from the east? Who commissioned him for his righteous purpose? The Lord hands nations over to him to trample kings under his feet, to make them like dust with his sword and like windblown chaff with his bow." 
Isaiah41:3 Swiftly he pursues them and advances unscathed as he passes over unfamiliar land. 
Isaiah41:4 Who achieved all this and made it happen? Who guides the destiny of each generation from the first until now? I am the one! I am Yahweh, the first, the unchanging one who will be there in the end!”" 
Isaiah41:5 The islands see it and panic; the ends of the earth tremble; they approach and draw near. 
Isaiah41:6 The idol-makers all bolster one another up, saying, “Take courage!”" 
Isaiah41:7 The woodworker encourages the metalsmith; the one who flattens with the hammer spurs on the one who strikes the anvil, saying of the welding, “Looks good!” They nail down the idol so it won’t topple." 
Isaiah41:8 “But you—my servant, Israel, Jacob, whom I’ve chosen, seed of my beloved friend Abraham —" 
Isaiah41:9 I drew you to myself from the ends of the earth and called you from its farthest corner. I say to you: ‘You are my servant; I have chosen you. I have not rejected you! 
Isaiah41:10 Do not yield to fear, for I am always near. Never turn your gaze from me, for I am your faithful God. I will infuse you with my strength and help you in every situation. I will hold you firmly with my victorious right hand.’" 
Isaiah41:11 “All who rage against you will be ashamed and disgraced. All who contend with you will perish and disappear. 
Isaiah41:12 You will look for your enemies in vain; those who war against you will vanish without a trace! 
Isaiah41:13 I am Yahweh, your mighty God! I grip your right hand and won’t let you go! I whisper to you: ‘Don’t be afraid; I am here to help you!’" 
Isaiah41:14 “Jacob, although you feel like a grub worm, have no fear! O men of Israel, I am here to help you! I am your Kinsman-Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel!" 
Isaiah41:15 I am making you into a powerful threshing instrument, with teeth new and sharp! You will reduce hills to chaff and crush mountains into dust!" 
Isaiah41:16 You will winnow them, and the stormy wind will blow them away! Then you will spin and dance with rejoicing in Yahweh, boasting with admiration in the Holy One of Israel!" 
Isaiah41:17 “I, Yahweh, will respond to the cry of the poor and needy when they are thirsty and their tongues are parched with thirst! When they seek a drink of water but there is none, I, the God of Israel, will not abandon them." 
Isaiah41:18 I will open up refreshing streams on the barren hills and springing fountains in the valleys. I will make the desert a pleasant pool and the dry land springs of water. 
Isaiah41:19 I will plant in the treeless desert cedars and acacias, myrtle and olive trees. I will set in the wilderness evergreens, together with many elms and cypresses." 
Isaiah41:20 Everyone will see and know that I, Yahweh, with my mighty hands have done this. They will consider and comprehend that the Holy One of Israel has created it.”" 
Isaiah41:21 Yahweh says, “Present your case.” “Let’s hear your arguments,” says the King of Jacob’s tribes." 
Isaiah41:22 “ Come, you idols, and let’s hear your prophecy for the future. Tell us, tell us about your former prophecies so we can test them and see if they were fulfilled, or decree some future event for us." 
Isaiah41:23 Prophesy what the future holds to prove to us that you are gods. Do something—anything! Frighten us or put us in awe! 
Isaiah41:24 But you are nothing at all! What have you ever accomplished? Whoever chooses to worship you is disgusting! 
Isaiah41:25 “I stirred up one from the north, who comes from the rising of the sun. He will call on my name. He will trample rulers into the mud as a potter treads clay." 
Isaiah41:26 Which of you foretold this from the start? Who prophesied it from long ago that we can say, ‘He is right’? None of you prophesied it! None of you announced it ahead of time! No one heard you say a thing about it!" 
Isaiah41:27 I was the first to decree to Zion, ‘Look, this is what’s about to happen!’ I am bringing a messenger to Jerusalem with good news." 
Isaiah41:28 But when I look, I find no one who is capable to counsel me! There is no one who can respond to me with the right answer! Who could I even ask?" 
Isaiah41:29 Look, all these gods are nothingness! What have they ever accomplished? Their metal images are nothing but empty wind and confusion!" 
Isaiah42:1 “Take a good look at my servant! I love him dearly, for he is my chosen one. I have taken hold of him in my strength, and I have clothed him with my Spirit. He will cause justice to spring up for the nations." 
Isaiah42:2 He will be gentle and will not quarrel with others in public. He will not exalt his own voice. 
Isaiah42:3 He would never crush a broken heart nor disregard the weak and vulnerable. He will make sure justice comes to those who are wronged. 
Isaiah42:4 His inner being will not become faint or discouraged, nor will his light grow dim before he establishes justice on the earth. Even the distant lands beyond the seas will hunger for his instruction.”" 
Isaiah42:5 Here are the words of the true God, Yahweh, the one who created the starry heavens and stretched them out. He is the one who formed the earth and filled it with life. He gives breath to every person and spirit to everyone everywhere." 
Isaiah42:6 “I, Yahweh, have commissioned you in righteousness to succeed. I will take your hand in love and watch over you. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a walking-light to the nations." 
Isaiah42:7 Your mission is to open blind eyes, to set prisoners free from dark dwellings, and to open prison doors to those who are held by darkness." 
Isaiah42:8 I am Yahweh; that is my name. I will not give my glory to another god nor my renown to idols. 
Isaiah42:9 Don’t you see that what I have prophesied has come to pass? And now I am foretelling the future. I declare it to you before it sprouts up.” 
Isaiah42:10 Sing to Yahweh a brand-new song! Sing his praise until it echoes from the ends of the earth! Sailors and sea creatures, praise him! Islands and all their inhabitants, sing his praise!" 
Isaiah42:11 Let the desert and its villages lift their voices in praise! Let the tent villages of Kedar shout their praises! Let the residents of Sela’s cliffs shout with glee, with a celebration shout from the mountaintops!" 
Isaiah42:12 Let them give Yahweh the glorious praise he deserves and declare his praise in the islands! 
Isaiah42:13 Yahweh goes out to battle like a hero and stirs up his passion and zeal like a mighty warrior. Yes, his God-shout is a mighty battle cry; he will triumph heroically over all his foes." 
Isaiah42:14 For a long time, I said nothing. I restrained myself and kept silent. Now I will groan, pant, and gasp like a woman in labor." 
Isaiah42:15 I will level their hills and mountains and dry up all their vegetation. I will turn rivers into islands and dry up their lakes. 
Isaiah42:16 I will walk the blind by an unknown way and guide them on paths they’ve never traveled. I will smooth their difficult road and make their dark mysteries bright with light. These are things I will do for them, for I will never abandon my beloved ones." 
Isaiah42:17 But those who trust in idols, who say to their metal images, “You are our gods,” will be turned aside in total disgrace." 
Isaiah42:18 Hear me, you deaf! Look up, you blind, and see!" 
Isaiah42:19 Who is as blind as my servant Israel or as deaf as the messenger I send? Who is as blind as my covenant friend, as blind as Yahweh ’s servant?" 
Isaiah42:20 Israel, you have seen so much, but you don’t get it! You have been taught so much, but what did you really hear?" 
Isaiah42:21 For the sake of his righteousness, Yahweh was eager to exalt his law and make it glorious." 
Isaiah42:22 But this is a people plundered and robbed, trapped in holes and hidden in houses of bondage. They are like prey that no one will rescue, like spoil with no one to say, “Bring them back!”" 
Isaiah42:23 Doesn’t anyone understand this? Will any of you pay attention to this in the future? 
Isaiah42:24 Who gave up Jacob to looters and Israel to robbers? It was Yahweh himself, against whom we sinned by not walking in holy ways nor heeding holy words." 
Isaiah42:25 So he poured out the heat of his anger and they suffered the fury of war. His anger enveloped them in flames, but they still did not understand— consumed by fire yet they did not take it to heart." 
Isaiah43:1 Now, this is what Yahweh says: “ Listen, Jacob, to the One who created you, Israel, to the one who shaped who you are. Do not fear, for I, your Kinsman-Redeemer, will rescue you. I have called you by name, and you are mine." 
Isaiah43:2 When you pass through the deep, stormy sea, you can count on me to be there with you. When you pass through raging rivers, you will not drown. When you walk through persecution like fiery flames, you will not be burned; the flames will not harm you," 
Isaiah43:3 for I am your Savior, Yahweh, your mighty God, the Holy One of Israel! I give up Egypt as the price to set you free, Cush and Seba in exchange to bring you back." 
Isaiah43:4 Since you are cherished and precious in my eyes, and because I love you dearly and want to honor you, I willingly give up nations in exchange for you— a man to save your life." 
Isaiah43:5 I am with you now, even close to you, so never yield to fear. I will bring your children from the east; from the west I will gather you." 
Isaiah43:6 I will say to the north, ‘Hand them over!’ and to the south, ‘Don’t hold them back!’ Bring me my sons from far away, my daughters from the ends of the earth!" 
Isaiah43:7 Bring me everyone who is called by my name, the ones I created to experience my glory. I myself formed them to be who they are and made them for my glory.”" 
Isaiah43:8 Lead out those who have eyes but are blind, those who have ears but are deaf." 
Isaiah43:9 Let all the nations gather together and the people assemble. Which of their gods prophesied this? Which of them foretold what is about to happen? Let them bring out their witnesses to make their case; let them take the stand and testify, “It is true.”" 
Isaiah43:10 Yahweh says, “You are my witnesses, my chosen servants. I chose you in order that you would know me intimately, believe me always, and fully understand that I am the only God. There was no god before me, and there will be no other god after me." 
Isaiah43:11 I, only I, am Yahweh, and there is no Savior-God but me." 
Isaiah43:12 I am the only one who revealed this to you. I saved you, foretold the future, and brought it to pass. It was not some foreign god who did this! You are my witnesses that I am God,” declares Yahweh." 
Isaiah43:13 “From the very beginning, I am the only God! No one can be snatched from my hand. When I choose to act, who can reverse it?”" 
Isaiah43:14 This is what Yahweh, your Kinsman-Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, says: “For your good, I will send for the Babylonians; I will bring them all as fugitives and turn the shouting of the Chaldeans into mourning." 
Isaiah43:15 I am Yahweh, your Holy One and your King, the Creator of Israel.”" 
Isaiah43:16 Yahweh is the one who makes a way in the sea, a pathway in the mighty waters." 
Isaiah43:17 He destroyed chariots and horses and all their mighty warriors. They fell, never to rise again— gone forever, snuffed out like a wick. This is what he says:" 
Isaiah43:18 “Stop dwelling on the past. Don’t even remember these former things. 
Isaiah43:19 I am doing something brand new, something unheard of. Even now it sprouts and grows and matures. Don’t you perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and open up flowing streams in the desert." 
Isaiah43:20 Wild beasts, jackals, and owls will glorify me. For I supply streams of water in the desert and rivers in the wilderness to satisfy the thirst of my people, my chosen ones," 
Isaiah43:21 so that you, whom I have shaped and formed for myself, will proclaim my praise." 
Isaiah43:22 Yet you did not call out to me, O Jacob. Are you so weary of me, O Israel?" 
Isaiah43:23 You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings or honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you by requiring many grain offerings or wearied you with demands for frankincense. 
Isaiah43:24 You did not buy me fragrant calamus reeds or lavish me with the fat of your sacrifices. Instead, you have burdened me with your many sins and wearied me with your evil deeds." 
Isaiah43:25 I, yes I, am the One and Only, who completely erases your sins, never to be seen again. I will not remember them again. Freely I do this because of who I am!" 
Isaiah43:26 Help me remember the past. Let’s debate! Bring me your version to prove your innocence. 
Isaiah43:27 Your earliest ancestor sinned, and your spokesmen rebelled against me." 
Isaiah43:28 So I brought disgrace on the holy priests of the holy sanctuary and brought destruction to Jacob, humiliation and scorn to Israel." 
Isaiah44:1 “Now, listen to me, my servant Jacob, Israel, my chosen one. I am Yahweh, your Creator, who shaped you in my womb. Hear what I have to say to you: ‘Don’t fear. I will help you, O Jacob my servant, Do not fear, my pleasing one, Israel." 
Isaiah44:2  
Isaiah44:3 I will pour refreshing water on the thirsty and streams on the dry ground. I will pour out my Spirit on your children, my blessing upon your descendants." 
Isaiah44:4 They will spring up like grass blanketing a meadow, like poplars growing by gushing streams." 
Isaiah44:5 One will say, “I belong to Yahweh.” Another will be called Jacob. Yet another will write on his hand “Property of Yahweh.” Another will adopt the name Israel.’ ”" 
Isaiah44:6 The words of Yahweh, Israel’s true King and Kinsman-Redeemer, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “I am the Beginning and I am the Ending, and I am the only God there is." 
Isaiah44:7 Who is like me? Go ahead, stand and speak up. I’ll wait for him to announce it and explain it all to me! Who else has announced from everlasting what is to come? Let him prophesy what is yet to be." 
Isaiah44:8 Do not fear nor be shaken! Haven’t I foretold it, announcing it to you ahead of time? You are my witnesses, so tell me, is there any god besides me? There is no other Rock of shelter; I know not one.”" 
Isaiah44:9 Idol-makers amount to nothing, and the things they treasure can do no one any good. They are witnesses with blind eyes who know nothing; they will be disgraced." 
Isaiah44:10 What kind of person would form an idol-god or cast an image with no ability to do any good? 
Isaiah44:11 No wonder those who worship them will be put to shame. Their craftsmen are only human beings. Let them all come together and take their stand. They will all be terrified and put to shame! 
Isaiah44:12 The blacksmith takes his tongs and heats it over the coals, forming it with hammers, forging it with his strong arm. But when he gets hungry, his strength ebbs away, and if he doesn’t drink water, he quickly grows weary." 
Isaiah44:13 The woodworker stretches out a measuring line, then marks it and fashions his idol-god with his carving tools. Then he uses a stylus to trace it out on the wood and shapes it into the figure of a man, trying to make it look like a beautiful human to be displayed somewhere in a shrine." 
Isaiah44:14 He chooses a cedar or a cypress or an oak, but first lets it grow strong in the forest. He plants a pine tree, and it is nourished by the rain." 
Isaiah44:15 The wood serves man for fuel; some he uses to warm himself and with some he bakes his bread. But from this same wood he also makes a god to worship and bows down to the idol he formed. 
Isaiah44:16 Half of the wood he burns in the fire to roast his meat. Then he eats his fill and is satisfied. Part he uses to warm himself and says, “Ah, I’m warm and cozy sitting by the fire.”" 
Isaiah44:17 With the rest of it he makes his idol-god, bows down to it, and worships it! He prays to it, saying, “Save me, for you are my god!”" 
Isaiah44:18 They have no clue what they’re doing and don’t comprehend how absurd it is! For they shut their eyes so they cannot see. They close their hearts so they cannot understand. 
Isaiah44:19 They have no knowledge, no understanding, no discernment to say, “Half of the wood I burned in the fire. I roasted meat and cooked my dinner. Now should I take the rest of the wood and make it into an abomination? Should I bow down and worship a block of wood?”" 
Isaiah44:20 He feeds his spirit on ashes! His deluded heart leads him astray. He can’t even ask himself, “Is this thing I’m holding in my right hand a fraud?”" 
Isaiah44:21 “Remember these things, O Jacob’s tribes, and Israel, you are my servant. I created you to be my servant, and I will never forget you!" 
Isaiah44:22 I have swept away your sins like a thick cloud. I have made your guilt vanish like mist disappearing into thin air. Now come back, come back to me, for I have paid the price for you.”" 
Isaiah44:23 Sing! Starry sky above, break loose with singing, for Yahweh has finished it! Shout! Earth deep below, give up your shout! Mountains high, break out with joyous songs of praise! Let the forest choirs join in, with every tree singing its notes! For Yahweh has paid the ransom price for Jacob’s tribes, and he will be glorified in Israel!" 
Isaiah44:24 Here is what Yahweh, your Kinsman-Redeemer, who formed you in his womb, has to say: “I am Yahweh, Creator of all. I alone stretched out the canvas of the cosmos. I who shaped the earth needed no one’s help." 
Isaiah44:25 Now I make fools of fortune-tellers and frustrate astrologers’ predictions. I confuse the wise, who think they know it all, and make their ‘knowledge’ into foolishness." 
Isaiah44:26 I confirm the word of my servants and fulfill the prophecies of my messengers. I say to Jerusalem, ‘Many people will live in you again,’ and to the cities of Judah, ‘I will raise up your ruins; you will be rebuilt!’" 
Isaiah44:27 I say to deep waters, ‘Dry up!’ and to rivers, ‘Become dry!’" 
Isaiah44:28 I say concerning Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd, and he will carry out all the purposes I have for him,’ saying to Jerusalem, ‘You will be rebuilt and flourish again!’ saying to the temple, ‘You will be reconstructed!’ ”" 
Isaiah45:1 “This is what Yahweh says to his anointed one, Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped as my servant to conquer nations and dethrone their kings. For I will open doors before him and no fortified gate will remain closed." 
Isaiah45:2 “ ‘I will march out in front of you and level every obstacle. I will shatter to pieces bronze doors and slice through iron bars. 
Isaiah45:3 I will give you hidden treasures of darkness and wealth waiting in secret sites so that you recognize me, for it is I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, who calls you by your name!" 
Isaiah45:4 For the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen, I call you by your name and give you a title of honor. But you don’t even know me." 
Isaiah45:5 I am Yahweh, the only God there is, and you’ll never find another. I will strengthen you for victory, even though you do not intimately know who I am." 
Isaiah45:6 Yet through you everyone will know who I really am. Those from the rising sun in the east to the west, everyone everywhere will know that I am Yahweh, the one and only God, and there is no other." 
Isaiah45:7 I create light, and I make it dark. I make bliss, and I create adversity. I am Yahweh who does all these things.’" 
Isaiah45:8 “Shower down righteousness, O heavens above. Let the clouds drip with deliverance! Let earth’s womb open and bear salvation’s fruit, with righteousness rising up beside it! I, Yahweh, have created all of them!" 
Isaiah45:9 Shame on the one who argues with his Creator, like one clay pot among other pots arguing with the potter. Should the clay say to the potter, ‘What in the world are you doing with me? Your hands are clumsy’?" 
Isaiah45:10 Shame on the one who complains to a father, ‘Why in the world did you conceive me?’ Or to a mother, ‘Why in the world did you bring me to birth?’ ”" 
Isaiah45:11 Listen to what Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel, the One who shaped him, has to say: “Why do you question me about the destiny of my children or tell me what to do with my children and what I have made?" 
Isaiah45:12 I created the earth and populated it with people. With my own hands, I spread out the cosmos and then commanded the starry host to shine!" 
Isaiah45:13 I am the one who raised him up in righteousness! I will make all his paths straight and level. He will build my city and release my exiled people, not because he was bribed or hired to do it, declares the Almighty Yahweh!”" 
Isaiah45:14 This is what Yahweh says to Cyrus: “Egypt’s wealth, Cush’s treasures, and the tall Sabeans will all be handed over to you. In chains they will walk behind you. They will be brought before you and they will bow down and address you reverently, saying, ‘Truly God is with you. He alone is God, and there is no other.’ ”" 
Isaiah45:15 Truly, O God of Israel, the Savior, you are a God who hides himself." 
Isaiah45:16 All the idol-makers will be ashamed and disgraced, and each one will walk away in confusion." 
Isaiah45:17 But Yahweh saves Israel with everlasting salvation! You will not be put to shame nor disgraced for all eternity! 
Isaiah45:18 This is what Yahweh says, heaven’s Creator, who alone is God. He created the earth, shaped it, and established it all by himself. He made it fit and orderly and beautiful for its inhabitants. He says: “I am Yahweh, and there is no other god." 
Isaiah45:19 I didn’t whisper in secret, in a realm of darkness. I didn’t say to Jacob’s tribes, ‘Seek me in vain.’ I am Yahweh! I speak the truth and declare to you what is right!" 
Isaiah45:20 “Come together! Assemble yourselves! Draw near, you refugees from among the nations. Those who parade their powerless wooden idols have no revelation-knowledge. They keep on praying to gods who cannot save them." 
Isaiah45:21 Declare what is to be and state your case. Go ahead and take counsel together. Who knew all about this and declared it long ago? Was it not I, Yahweh? There is no god apart from me. I am a righteous God and a Savior. There is no one you can compare to me." 
Isaiah45:22 So turn your heart to me, face me now, and be saved wherever you are, even from the ends of the earth, for I alone am God, and there is no other." 
Isaiah45:23 I make this solemn oath to you in my own name; this word sent from my mouth in righteousness will not return unfulfilled: ‘Truly every knee will bow before me and every tongue will solemnly swear allegiance to me!’ 
Isaiah45:24 All will say of me, ‘Yes! Only in Yahweh do I find righteousness and strength!’ And all who were angry with me will come before me and regret it!" 
Isaiah45:25 In Yahweh, all of Israel’s offspring will triumph and shine!”" 
Isaiah46:1 The gods of Babylon, Bel and Nebo, are bowed down and lowered to the ground. They haul away on ox carts their wobbling idols." 
Isaiah46:2 They both stoop and bow down, and they are powerless to rescue their own images. There they go—carried off into captivity!" 
Isaiah46:3 “Listen to me, O Jacob’s tribes, all the remnant of Israel. You never had to carry me, but I have carried you from birth. I supported you from the moment you left the womb." 
Isaiah46:4 Even as you grow old and your hair turns gray, I’ll keep carrying you! I am your Maker and your Caregiver. I will carry you and be your Savior." 
Isaiah46:5 To whom can you compare me, the incomparable God? Have you found someone else like me?" 
Isaiah46:6 The wealthy pour out their gold, weigh out their silver in the scales, and hire a goldsmith who crafts it into a ‘god.’ Then they bow down before it to worship it." 
Isaiah46:7 They lift it up to their shoulders and have to carry it. They set it on a stand, and there it sits, unable to move from its place. When someone cries out to it, it never answers nor saves anyone from trouble." 
Isaiah46:8 Keep this in mind and don’t forget it! Take this to heart, you rebels!" 
Isaiah46:9 Remember the miracles of long ago. Acknowledge that I am God, and there is no other. I am God, and there is none like me." 
Isaiah46:10 I declare from the beginning how it will end and foretell from the start what has not yet happened. I decree that my purpose will stand, and I will fulfill my every plan." 
Isaiah46:11 I called that eagle Cyrus, swooping in from the east; from a distant land he came, the man of my purpose. I have spoken, and yes, I will bring it to pass. I have formed my plan, and yes, I will do it." 
Isaiah46:12 “Listen to me, you stubborn ones who are far from righteousness." 
Isaiah46:13 I am bringing my righteousness closer to you; it is not far off. My deliverance will not be delayed, for I will set my salvation in Zion for Israel my glory!”" 
Isaiah47:1 “Get down from your throne and sit in the dust, O Miss Babylon! Sit on the ground where you belong, not on a throne, O Miss Chaldea! For you will never be described again as ‘delicate and dainty.’" 
Isaiah47:2 Take off your pretty veil; take two millstones and grind grain. Lift your skirt, bare your legs, and wade through the rivers." 
Isaiah47:3 Your humiliating nakedness will be uncovered, your shame exposed and seen by all. I will take vengeance and let no one intercede for you.”" 
Isaiah47:4 We have a Redeemer. Yahweh is his name, the Commander of Angel Armies, the Holy One of Israel!" 
Isaiah47:5 “Sit silently and go away into the darkness, O Miss Chaldea! For you will no longer be called the Mistress of Kingdoms." 
Isaiah47:6 I became angry with my people, so I wounded my special ones. I handed them over to you, and you took them captive. You showed them no mercy; you even made the elderly suffer under your heavy yoke." 
Isaiah47:7 You thought, ‘I will be the Mistress of Kingdoms forever.’ But you never considered what you were doing or reflected on how all this would end." 
Isaiah47:8 “So now, listen to this, you pampered lover of pleasure, who sits smug and secure and says in her heart, ‘I am, and there is no one like me! I will never have to live as a widow or suffer the loss of my children.’" 
Isaiah47:9 Suddenly both of these losses will overtake you in one day, for you will lose your husband and your children. Despite your many magic spells and your powerful sorceries, you will be overwhelmed by these tragedies in full measure!" 
Isaiah47:10 You felt so smug and secure in your wickedness. You thought, ‘No one sees me.’ Your idea of ‘wisdom’ and self-professed ‘knowledge’ has led you astray, saying in your heart, ‘I am! There is none like me!’" 
Isaiah47:11 An avalanche of evil will come upon you that no magic spell will be able to avert. Great disaster is about to fall upon you that you will not be able to ward off! Total devastation will strike you suddenly. It will happen so swiftly you won’t even see it coming! 
Isaiah47:12 “So go ahead—keep trusting in your sorceries and the witchcraft you’ve practiced since your youth. Perhaps you might succeed! Perhaps you’ll scare away your impending doom! 
Isaiah47:13 You must be fatigued with so much counsel! Let the stargazers and astrologers take their stand. See if they can help you now! Let them make their monthly predictions. Maybe they can reveal what is about to come upon you. 
Isaiah47:14 Look at them! They’re nothing but straw for the consuming fire. They can’t even rescue themselves from the power of the flame. And this is not some cozy fire that you sit beside to keep yourself warm! 
Isaiah47:15 These traders, with whom you have dealt since your youth, will do nothing but disappoint you. Each has wandered off to his own way— there is no one left to rescue you!”" 
Isaiah48:1 “Listen carefully, O Jacob’s tribes, you who are called by the name Israel and come from the lineage of Judah, who solemnly swear in the name of Yahweh and claim to worship the God of Israel. But there is no truth or righteousness in your confession!" 
Isaiah48:2 Indeed, you name yourselves after the holy city and say that you depend upon Israel’s God. Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, is his name." 
Isaiah48:3 “Long ago I prophesied things that would happen. I issued decrees and made them known. Then suddenly, I acted and made them happen." 
Isaiah48:4 I knew you were stubborn. Your neck is like a rod of iron, and you’re as hard-hearted as brass!" 
Isaiah48:5 Long ago I told you these things. Long before they happened I proclaimed them so you would never be able to say, ‘My idols did this; my wood and metal idols decreed it!’" 
Isaiah48:6 You have heard what I foretold and have seen it all unfold, so admit that it happened and I was right! From now on I will tell you about new things never seen before, hidden things, well-guarded secrets you know nothing about." 
Isaiah48:7 They are created now, brand new today, not long ago! You’ve never heard of them before now, so you cannot say, ‘Oh, I already knew about that.’" 
Isaiah48:8 “You have never heard nor understood; your ear had not been opened beforehand. Though I knew that you would fight against me as a rebel from birth," 
Isaiah48:9 yet, for the sake of my great name and for my glory, I held back my anger and was patient with you so I did not whittle you down to nothing." 
Isaiah48:10 See, I have purified you in the furnace of adversity, but not like silver—I have refined you in the fire." 
Isaiah48:11 For my own sake alone I will do it, so my name will not be dishonored. I will not yield my glory to another.”" 
Isaiah48:12 “Listen to me, O Jacob, Israel, whom I have called: I am the One and Only, the First and the Last." 
Isaiah48:13 With my mighty hand I laid the foundation of the earth; with the span of my right hand I spread out the cosmos. And when I speak to them, they both stand at attention." 
Isaiah48:14 Now, all of you gather around and listen. Which of the gods has foretold these things? I, Yahweh, love this man, and he will carry out my purpose against Babylon. He will be my ‘arm of might’ against the Babylonians!" 
Isaiah48:15 I am the one; yes, I am the one who called him by name before he was born. I have led him forward on a prosperous, successful path.”" 
Isaiah48:16 “Draw near to me and listen: From the beginning, I have not spoken in secret. From the beginning of time, I was there.” And now Lord Yahweh has sent me, empowered by his Spirit!" 
Isaiah48:17 This is what Yahweh, your Kinsman-Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel says: “I am Yahweh, your God. I am the One who teaches you how to succeed and who leads you step by step in the way you should go." 
Isaiah48:18 If only you had listened to my commands, then peace would have flowed like a river for you and success would wash over you like waves of the sea." 
Isaiah48:19 Your children would have multiplied to become like the sand of the seashore and your descendants like grains of sand. There would be no end of them, and I would not cut them off.”" 
Isaiah48:20 Go! Leave Babylon! Flee from Chaldea! Announce it with joyous singing! Let everyone know! Proclaim it to the ends of the earth! Say it loud and clear: “ Yahweh has rescued his servant Jacob!” 
Isaiah48:21 The people weren’t thirsty when he led them through barren, desolate deserts, for he broke open the rock for water to flow for them. The rock was split open, and rivers gushed out!" 
Isaiah48:22 “There is never peace,” Yahweh says, “for the wicked.”" 
Isaiah49:1 Listen to what I have to say, you islands. Pay attention to me, you who live in distant lands. Yahweh called me as his own before I was born and named me while I was still in my mother’s womb." 
Isaiah49:2 He gives me words that pierce and penetrate. He hid me and protected me in the shadow of his hand. He prepared me like a polished arrow and concealed me in his quiver. 
Isaiah49:3 And he said to me, “Israel, you are my special servant; in you I will be glorified.”" 
Isaiah49:4 I said, “I’ve worked and served for nothing. I have used up all my strength for nothing.” Yet my rights I leave in Yahweh ’s hands, and my just reward is with my God." 
Isaiah49:5 And now, the Lord Yahweh — who shaped me in the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob’s tribes back to him that Israel would be gathered back to him, for I am honored in the sight of Yahweh. I find the source of all my strength in my God—" 
Isaiah49:6 who says: “Is it too small a thing for you, my servant, to restore greatness to Jacob’s tribes and the survivors of Israel? I will make you to be a light to the nations and to bring the light of my salvation to the ends of the earth!”" 
Isaiah49:7 Yahweh, Israel’s Kinsman-Redeemer and Holy One, says to the one who is deeply despised and repulsed by rulers and a slave to the ruling class: “Kings will see and stand up in respect; princes will bow down to honor the faithfulness of Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you.”" 
Isaiah49:8 Yahweh says: “When the time of showing you favor has come, I will answer your heart’s cry. I will help you in the day of salvation, for I have fixed my eyes on you. I have made you a covenant people to restore the land and to resettle families on forgotten inheritances." 
Isaiah49:9 You will declare to prisoners, ‘You’re free!’ and to those in darkness, ‘Step out into the light!’ They will be like sheep that graze beside the roads and find pasture on the barren hillside." 
Isaiah49:10 They will never be hungry or thirsty. Neither scorching sun nor desert wind will hurt them, for he, the Loving One, will guide them and lead them to restful, renewing streams of water." 
Isaiah49:11 I will level all my mountains as a road for them and raise up my highways. 
Isaiah49:12 Look! They will come from faraway lands— some from the north, some from the west, and some from the land of Sinim.”" 
Isaiah49:13 Sing for joy, you heavens! Shout, you earth, and rejoice with dancing, shouting, and glee! Burst into joyous songs, you mountains, for Yahweh has comforted his beloved people. He will show tenderness and compassion to his suffering ones." 
Isaiah49:14 But Zion has said, “ Yahweh has forsaken me. My Lord has forgotten me— I’m all alone.”" 
Isaiah49:15 Yahweh responds, “But how could a loving mother forget her nursing child and not deeply love the one she bore? Even if there is a mother who forgets her child, I could never, no never, forget you." 
Isaiah49:16 Can’t you see? I have carved your name on the palms of my hands! Your walls are always my concern. 
Isaiah49:17 Your children, your builders, are running back to you as those who ruined and destroyed you are running away." 
Isaiah49:18 Lift up your head and look all around you. See! All your children, your builders, gather to come back to you. As surely as I live, I make this promise,” says Yahweh. “You will wear them all like jewels, as a radiant bride wears her beautiful jewelry!" 
Isaiah49:19 “See? Your ruins and devastated places will soon be overcrowded with settlers while your destroyers stay far away. 
Isaiah49:20 You thought you had lost the children, but you will hear them say, ‘This place is too cramped for me. Make more room for me to live in.’" 
Isaiah49:21 And you will say to yourself, ‘Where in the world did all these children come from? Who birthed these for me? I thought I was bereaved and barren. I thought I was all alone, forgotten in exile— so how did they all get here?’ ”" 
Isaiah49:22 This is what Lord Yahweh says: “Soon I will raise my hand and signal to the nations, and they will come with your little boys bundled in their arms and your little daughters carried on their shoulders." 
Isaiah49:23 Kings will be their babysitters and queens their nursing mothers. With faces bowed to the ground, they will lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am Yahweh, and I will never disappoint those who entwine their hearts with mine.”" 
Isaiah49:24 Who can snatch the prey from the hands of a mighty warrior or rescue captives from a conqueror? 
Isaiah49:25 But Yahweh says: “The prey will be freed from the mighty warrior, and captives will be rescued from a conqueror! For I will fight with those who fight with you, and I myself will save your children." 
Isaiah49:26 I will cause the violence of your oppressors to come back upon them, and your enemies will kill one another in a killing frenzy! Then all the earth will know that I am Yahweh, your Savior, your Kinsman-Redeemer, the mighty hero of Jacob’s tribes.”" 
Isaiah50:1 Yahweh asks, “Have I abandoned you? Can you show me your mother’s divorce papers that prove I sent her away? Do you think I sold you into slavery to pay off a debt? No, you sold yourselves into slavery because of your sins, and because of your rebellion I sent your mother away!" 
Isaiah50:2 When I came to you, why was no one there? When I called, why did no one answer? Am I powerless to rescue you or too weak to deliver you? With only a threat I can evaporate the sea and dry up the rivers as a desert, leaving the fish to rot and die of thirst." 
Isaiah50:3 I dress the sky with darkness and shroud it with sackcloth.” 
Isaiah50:4 The Lord Yahweh has equipped me with the anointed, skillful tongue of a teacher — to know how to speak a timely word to the weary. Morning by morning, he awakens my heart. He opens my ears to hear his voice, to be trained to teach." 
Isaiah50:5 The Lord Yahweh has opened my ear, and I did not resist; I did not rebel." 
Isaiah50:6 I offered my back to those who flogged me and my cheek to those who tore out my beard. I never hid my face from demeaning insults or from those who spit on me. 
Isaiah50:7 The Lord Yahweh empowers me, so I am not humiliated. For that reason, with holy determination, I will do his will and not be ashamed." 
Isaiah50:8 The One who makes me righteous is close to me. Who would dare challenge me now? Who would be my opponent? Let him stand before me! Who is my accuser? Let him confront me! 
Isaiah50:9 It is the Lord Yahweh who empowers me; who would condemn me? My accusers will all fade away like worn-out, moth-eaten clothes." 
Isaiah50:10 Who among you has true fear and reverence of Yahweh? Who of you listens to the voice of his servant? Are any of you groping in the dark without light? Trust in the faithful name of Yahweh and rely on your God. 
Isaiah50:11 But if you presume to light your own torch, you are playing with fire. So go ahead, walk in the light of your own fires and the sparks you have kindled. But I can promise you this: it will take you down into torment!" 
Isaiah51:1 “Listen to me, you who chase after righteousness, you who passionately pursue the Lord. Look back to Abraham, the rock from which you were cut, to Sarah, the quarry from which you were dug, and remember what I did for them." 
Isaiah51:2 Yes, look to Abraham your father and to Sarah, who bore you. For when I called Abraham, he was but one person, but I blessed him greatly so that one became many.”" 
Isaiah51:3 Indeed, Yahweh will comfort Zion, restore her, and comfort all her broken places. He will transform her wilderness into the garden of Bliss, her desert into the garden of Yahweh. Joy and laughter will fill the air with thanksgiving and joyous melodies." 
Isaiah51:4 “Listen to me, my people; pay attention to me, my nation. For I release my teaching to the nations, and I will cause the light of justice to rest on them." 
Isaiah51:5 My righteousness is coming closer, and my salvation has gone out. My mighty arms will govern the people. The islands will trust in me and put their hope in the unveiling of my might." 
Isaiah51:6 Lift up your eyes to the heavenly realm and look at the earth far below. Though the heavens disappear like smoke, though the earth wears out like a garment, and though all the people die like gnats, my salvation will endure forever and my righteousness will never end!" 
Isaiah51:7 So listen to me, you who care for what is right, who treasure my teaching in your hearts: Do not fear the insults of others; do not be troubled when they revile you." 
Isaiah51:8 They are nothing for you to fear, for the moth will eat them up like a shirt and the worm will consume them like wool, but my righteousness will last forever and my salvation from generation to generation.”" 
Isaiah51:9 Awake, God, awake! Arm of Yahweh, put on your robe of strength! Awake and do the works of power as in ancient days, as in generations past! Wasn’t it you who smashed the sea monster to pieces, who pierced the dragon in generations long ago?" 
Isaiah51:10 Wasn’t it you who dried up the Red Sea with its deep waters and made a path through the sea to rescue your redeemed? 
Isaiah51:11 Do it again! Those Yahweh has set free will return to Zion and come celebrating with songs of joy! They will be crowned with never-ending joy! Gladness and joy will overwhelm them; despair and depression will disappear! 
Isaiah51:12 “I, yes I, am the one who comforts you. All the sons of men will be cut down and fade like grass. Why then would you be afraid of a mere human being?" 
Isaiah51:13 You have forgotten that Yahweh, your Maker, stretched out the skies and laid earth’s firm foundation. But you live each day constantly worrying, living in fear of your angry oppressor who is bent on your destruction. But their fury cannot touch you!" 
Isaiah51:14 Those who are suffering will soon be released. They will not die in their dark dungeon, nor will they go hungry." 
Isaiah51:15 For I am Yahweh, your faithful God, who split the sea with its roaring waves. My name is Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies!”" 
Isaiah51:16 “I have placed my words in your mouth and have hidden you in the hollow of my hand to establish the heavens and make the earth rock solid. You will say to Zion, ‘You are my people!’ ”" 
Isaiah51:17 Wake up! Wake up! Get up, Jerusalem! You have drunk enough from the cup Yahweh handed you. It was the cup of his anger, and you’ve drained it dry— the intoxicating bowl that makes men stagger!" 
Isaiah51:18 There are none of Zion’s children left, none to guide her home and take her by the hand, none among all the children she has raised." 
Isaiah51:19 Twin calamities have come upon you, but who will feel sorry for you? Disaster and devastation, famine and war, but who will comfort you?" 
Isaiah51:20 Your children have fainted and lie fallen in the streets, like a gazelle caught in a net. Yahweh ’s anger, the rebuke of your God, has overwhelmed them." 
Isaiah51:21 So listen, you who are weak and wounded, who are intoxicated not with wine but with God’s anger." 
Isaiah51:22 This is what your sovereign ruler, Lord Yahweh, your God, the Mighty Defender of his people, says: “Look! I have removed from your hand the intoxicating cup that made you stagger. You will no longer drink from the bowl of my anger." 
Isaiah51:23 Instead, I will put that bowl in the hands of your tormentors who said to you, ‘Lie down so we can walk all over you!’ For your back became like the ground they trample on, like a street for them to walk on.”" 
Isaiah52:1 Wake up! Open your eyes! Beautiful Zion, put on your majestic strength! Jerusalem, the sacred city, put on your glory garments! Never again will the unclean enter your gates!" 
Isaiah52:2 Arise and shake off your dust! Sit enthroned, Jerusalem! Break off your shackles of bondage from your neck, you captive daughter of Zion!" 
Isaiah52:3 For this is what Yahweh has to say: “You were sold for nothing; now you will be redeemed without any payment.” 
Isaiah52:4 For Yahweh says: “Long ago, my people went down to Egypt and lived as foreigners there, and for no good reason Assyria oppressed them." 
Isaiah52:5 And now, what have I here?” says Yahweh. “Indeed, my people have been taken into bondage without cause while mocking rulers howl; and every day my name is continually despised!” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah52:6 “Therefore, my people will know the power of my name, and they will know in that day that I am the one who promised them, saying, ‘Behold, I am here!’ ”" 
Isaiah52:7 What a beautiful sight to behold— the precious feet of the messenger coming over the mountains to announce good news! He comes to refresh us with wonderful news, announcing salvation to Zion and saying, “Your Mighty God reigns!”" 
Isaiah52:8 Listen! The watchmen are shouting in triumph! Lifting their voices together, they are singing for joy! For right before their eyes, they can see Yahweh returning to Zion!" 
Isaiah52:9 Burst into joyous songs, you rubble of Jerusalem! For Yahweh has graciously comforted his people; he has become the Kinsman-Redeemer of Jerusalem!" 
Isaiah52:10 Yahweh has unveiled his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations. To the ends of the earth, everyone everywhere will see the salvation of our God!" 
Isaiah52:11 Go! Go, and leave Babylon behind! Touch nothing unclean as you depart. Keep your life pure as you leave, you who carry the vessels of Yahweh!" 
Isaiah52:12 You will neither have to leave in haste, nor will you make a frantic escape, for your God, Yahweh, will go before you. He will lead you each step and be your rear guard." 
Isaiah52:13 “Look! My servant will prosper and succeed! He will be highly honored, raised up, and greatly exalted!" 
Isaiah52:14 Just as many were appalled at the sight of him (for so marred was his appearance, like an object of horror; he no longer looked like a man)," 
Isaiah52:15 so now he will startle many nations. Kings will be shocked speechless before him. For they will now see a sight unheard of, and things never considered before now fill their thoughts.”" 
Isaiah53:1 Who has truly believed our revelation? To whom will Yahweh reveal his mighty arm? 
Isaiah53:2 He sprouted up like a tender plant before the Lord, like a root in parched soil. He possessed no distinguishing beauty or outward splendor to catch our attention— nothing special in his appearance to make us desire him." 
Isaiah53:3 He was despised and rejected by men, a man of deep sorrows who was no stranger to suffering and grief. We hid our faces from him in disgust and considered him a nobody, not worthy of respect." 
Isaiah53:4 Yet he was the one who carried our sicknesses and endured the torment of our sufferings. We viewed him as one who was being punished for something he himself had done, as one who was struck down by God and brought low." 
Isaiah53:5 But it was because of our rebellious deeds that he was pierced and because of our sins that he was crushed. He endured the punishment that made us completely whole, and in his wounding we found our healing." 
Isaiah53:6 Like wayward sheep, we have all wandered astray. Each of us has turned from God’s paths and chosen our own way; even so, Yahweh laid the guilt of our every sin upon him." 
Isaiah53:7 He was oppressed and harshly mistreated; still he humbly submitted, refusing to defend himself. He was led like a gentle lamb to be slaughtered. Like a silent sheep before his shearers, he didn’t even open his mouth." 
Isaiah53:8 By coercion and with a perversion of justice he was taken away. And who could have imagined his future? He was cut down in the prime of life; for the rebellion of his own people, he was struck down in their place." 
Isaiah53:9 They gave him a grave among criminals, but he ended up instead in a rich man’s tomb, although he had done no violence nor spoken deceitfully." 
Isaiah53:10 Even though it pleased Yahweh to crush him with grief, he will be restored to favor. After his soul becomes a guilt-offering, he will gaze upon his many offspring and prolong his days. And through him, Yahweh ’s deepest desires will be fully accomplished." 
Isaiah53:11 After the great anguish of his soul, he will see light and be fully satisfied. By knowing him, the righteous one, my servant will make many to be righteous, because he, their sin-bearer, carried away their sins." 
Isaiah53:12 So I, Yahweh, will assign him a portion among a great multitude, and he will triumph and divide the spoils of victory with his mighty ones — all because he poured out his life-blood to death. He was counted among the worst of sinners, yet he carried sin’s burden for many and intercedes for those who are rebels." 
Isaiah54:1 “Rejoice with singing, you barren one! You who have never given birth, burst into a song of joy and shout, you who have never been in labor! For the deserted wife will have more children than the married one,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah54:2 “ Increase is coming, so enlarge your tent and add extensions to your dwelling. Hold nothing back! Make the tent ropes longer and the pegs stronger." 
Isaiah54:3 You will increase and spread out in every direction. Your sons and daughters will conquer nations and revitalize desolate cities. 
Isaiah54:4 Do not fear, for your shame is no more. Do not be embarrassed, for you will not be disgraced. You will forget the inadequacy you felt in your youth and will no longer remember the shame of your widowhood." 
Isaiah54:5 For your Maker is your husband; his name is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies! Your Kinsman-Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel! He has the title Mighty God of All the Earth!" 
Isaiah54:6 For I, Yahweh, have invited you to come back like a depressed, deserted wife. Like a young wife who has experienced rejection, I am drawing you back to me,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah54:7 “For just a brief moment I deserted you, but with tender feelings of love I will gather you back to me." 
Isaiah54:8 In a surge of anger, for just the briefest moment, I hid my face from you, but with everlasting kindness, I will show you my cherishing love,” says Yahweh, your Kinsman-Redeemer." 
Isaiah54:9 “To me, this is like the time when I vowed that the waters of Noah’s flood would never again cover the earth. Now I vow to you that I will neither be angry with you nor rebuke you." 
Isaiah54:10 Even if the mountains were to crumble and the hills disappear, my heart of steadfast, faithful love will never leave you, and my covenant of peace with you will never be shaken,” says Yahweh, whose love and compassion will never give up on you." 
Isaiah54:11 “You unhappy one, storm-tossed and troubled, I am ready to rebuild you with precious stones and your intimacy with me will be built on a foundation of sapphires." 
Isaiah54:12 I will make your towers of rubies, your gates of sparkling jewels, and all your walls of precious, delightful stones." 
Isaiah54:13 All your children will be taught by Yahweh, and great will be their peace and prosperity." 
Isaiah54:14 You will be established in righteousness. Oppression—be far from you! Fear—be far from you! Yes, terror will not come near you, nor will you be afraid." 
Isaiah54:15 If anyone dares to stir up strife against you, it is not from me! Those who challenge you will go down in defeat." 
Isaiah54:16 See, I am the one who created the craftsman who fans the coals into a fire and forges a weapon fit for its purpose, and I am the one who created the destroyer to destroy." 
Isaiah54:17 But I promise you, no weapon meant to hurt you will succeed, and you will refute every accusing word spoken against you. This promise is the inheritance of Yahweh ’s servants, and their vindication is from me,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah55:1 “Listen! Are you thirsty for more? Come to the refreshing waters and drink. Even if you have no money, come, buy, and eat. Yes, come and buy all the wine and milk you desire— it won’t cost a thing." 
Isaiah55:2 Why spend your hard-earned money on something that can’t nourish you or work so hard for something that can’t satisfy? So listen carefully to me and you’ll enjoy a sumptuous feast, delighting in the finest of food." 
Isaiah55:3 Pay attention and come closer to me, and hear, that your total being may flourish. I will enter into an everlasting covenant with you, and I will show you the same faithful love that I showed David." 
Isaiah55:4 See! I made him a witness to the nations, an example of leadership, as prince and commander of peoples.”" 
Isaiah55:5 Look! You will summon nations you’ve never heard of. Nations who have never heard of you will come running to follow you because Yahweh, your God, the Holy One of Israel, has glorified you!" 
Isaiah55:6 Seek the Lord Yahweh when he makes himself approachable; call upon him when you sense he is near. 
Isaiah55:7 The wicked need to abandon their ways, and sinful ones need to banish every evil thought. Let them return to Yahweh, and they will experience his compassionate mercy. Yes, let them return to God, for he will lavish forgiveness upon them." 
Isaiah55:8 “For my thoughts about mercy are not like your thoughts, and my ways are different from yours." 
Isaiah55:9 As high as the heavens are above the earth, so my ways and my thoughts are higher than yours." 
Isaiah55:10 “As the snow and rain that fall from heaven do not return until they have accomplished their purpose, soaking the earth and causing it to sprout with new life, providing seed to sow and bread to eat." 
Isaiah55:11 So also will be the word that I speak; it does not return to me unfulfilled. My word performs my purpose and fulfills the mission I sent it out to accomplish.” 
Isaiah55:12 For you will leave your exile with joy and be led home wrapped in peace. The mountains and hills in front of you will burst into singing and the trees of the field will applaud! 
Isaiah55:13 Cypress trees will flourish where there were only thorns and myrtle trees instead of briars. These will stand as a testimony to Yahweh ’s renown, everlasting signs that will not be cut off." 
Isaiah56:1 Yahweh says to his people: “Promote the cause of justice! Do what is just and right, for soon my salvation will come and my righteousness will be unveiled." 
Isaiah56:2 Blessed is the one who will faithfully keep his commitment. Yes, blessed is the one who honors the Sabbath and does not disregard it, and the one who keeps their hands from doing evil.”" 
Isaiah56:3 The foreigner who joins himself to Yahweh should never say, “ Because I’m a foreigner, Yahweh will exclude me from his people.” And the eunuchs should never say, “ Because I can’t have children, I’m just a barren tree.”" 
Isaiah56:4 For Yahweh says to such a man, “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, and choose the things that honor me, and remain true to my covenant, I make this promise:" 
Isaiah56:5 ‘I will bestow upon them within my household both an honored place and an honored name, even better than the honor that comes from having children. I bestow upon them my everlasting favor; you will never be forgotten.’" 
Isaiah56:6 And to the foreigners who join themselves to Yahweh to worship him, those who want to be his servants and love the name of Yahweh — all who honor the Sabbath and do not disregard it, and who remain true to my covenant— I make this promise:" 
Isaiah56:7 ‘I will welcome you into my holy mountain and make you joyful in my house of prayer. I will accept every sacrifice and offering that you place on my altar, for my house of worship will be known as a house of prayer for all people.’ ”" 
Isaiah56:8 The Lord God Almighty, who brings home the outcasts of Israel, says, “There are many others I will gather, and I will add them to those who are already gathered.”" 
Isaiah56:9 All you wild beasts, come and devour, you wild animals of the forest." 
Isaiah56:10 Blind watchmen, all of them! They have no revelation-knowledge; they’re like dumb dogs that don’t even bark— dreaming, sleeping, devoted to slumber." 
Isaiah56:11 They’re greedy dogs that never eat enough. And the shepherds have no discernment; they follow their own desires. Every last one of them seeks his own profit. 
Isaiah56:12 Each one says, “Let’s get wine and liquor and have a party! And tomorrow, more of the same, except even better!”" 
Isaiah57:1 The godly perish, but no one seems to notice. The faithful ones are taken away, and no one understands. It is because of evil that they are preserved from calamity," 
Isaiah57:2 and the godly ones enter into peace, resting serenely upon their death beds." 
Isaiah57:3 “But you—come here, you son of a sorceress! You’re nothing but an offspring of an adulteress and a prostitute." 
Isaiah57:4 Who do you think you’re mocking? At whom do you sneer and stick out your tongue? Why, you’re a rebellious child, the offspring of liars!" 
Isaiah57:5 You burn with lust for other gods among the oak groves and under every green tree. You sacrifice your own children in the caves near the bed of a stream. 
Isaiah57:6 From there you take smooth stones and worship them as idols. Yes, they become your idols! You bring them grain offerings and pour out wine as drink offerings. Do you think I will not seek vengeance for this?" 
Isaiah57:7 On a high hill, you practice ritual sex and go up to the lofty place to offer sacrifice." 
Isaiah57:8 Hidden inside your front doors you have set up your obscene idols. Forsaking me, you went up and uncovered yourself and climbed into your wide bed. You made covenant with them for yourselves, you slept with them, and you gazed upon their nakedness." 
Isaiah57:9 You journeyed to the king with oil along with many perfumes. You sent your envoys to exotic lands, even down to the underworld." 
Isaiah57:10 Though all your wanderings wearied you, you never said, ‘I give up.’ Your strength was renewed so that you did not faint." 
Isaiah57:11 “Why were you so afraid of them that you told lies and did not remember me or even care what I thought? Is it because I have been patient and long silent that you no longer fear me? 
Isaiah57:12 I will denounce your presumed ‘righteousness’ and your ‘good works,’ so don’t trust in your idols to help you." 
Isaiah57:13 Let’s see if your pantheon of idols can save you when you cry out! They will be blown away by the wind; merely a breath will carry them off! But whoever makes me a hiding place will possess the land and inherit my holy mountain.” 
Isaiah57:14 Yahweh says, “ Let the people return to me. Build! Build up the road, clear the way, and get it ready! Remove every obstacle from their path.”" 
Isaiah57:15 For this is what the high and majestic one says, the one who fills the eternal realm with glory, whose name is Holy: “I dwell in high and holy places but also with the bruised and lowly in spirit, those who are humble and quick to repent. I dwell with them to revive the spirit of the humble, to revive the heart of those who are broken over their sin." 
Isaiah57:16 You will not find me continually accusing them or holding anger against them, lest they feel defeated and lose heart before me. For I am the One who gave the breath of life to my people." 
Isaiah57:17 It was their sin and greed that made me angry, so I struck them and hid my face from them. But they continued in rebellion, following their own desires." 
Isaiah57:18 Even though I’ve seen their ways, I will heal them. I will guide them forward and repay them with comfort, giving mourners the language of praise." 
Isaiah57:19 I offer peace to those who are far from me, and I offer peace to those who are near, and I will heal their deepest wounds,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah57:20 “But the wicked are like the storm-tossed sea, whose restless waves are never still, stirring up mud and mire." 
Isaiah57:21 There is no peace for the wicked,” says my God." 
Isaiah58:1 “Shout it loud and clear! Don’t hold back! Let your voice be like a trumpet blast! Declare to my people their rebellion and to Jacob’s tribes their sin! 
Isaiah58:2 Yes, daily they seem to seek me, pretending that they delight to know my ways, as though they were a nation that does what is right and had not rejected the law of their God. They ask me to show them the right way, acting as though they are eager to be close to me." 
Isaiah58:3 They say, ‘Why is it that when we fasted, you did not see it? We starved ourselves, and you didn’t seem to notice.’ “Because on the day you fasted you were seeking only your own desires, and you continue to exploit your workers." 
Isaiah58:4 During your fasts, you quarrel and fight with others and strike them with an angry fist. When you fast like that, your voice will not be heard on high." 
Isaiah58:5 Do you think I’m impressed with that kind of fast? Is it just a day to starve your bodies, make others think you’re humble, and lie down in sackcloth and ashes? Do you call that a fast? Do you think I, Yahweh, will be pleased with that?”" 
Isaiah58:6 “This is the kind of fast that I desire: Remove the heavy chains of oppression! Stop exploiting your workers! Set free the crushed and mistreated! Break off every yoke of bondage! 
Isaiah58:7 Share your food with the hungry! Provide for the homeless and bring them into your home! Clothe the naked! Don’t turn your back on your own flesh and blood! 
Isaiah58:8 Then my favor will bathe you in sunlight until you are like the dawn bursting through a dark night. And then suddenly your healing will manifest. You will see your righteousness march out before you, and the glory of Yahweh will protect you from all harm!" 
Isaiah58:9 Then Yahweh will answer you when you pray. When you cry out for help, he will say, ‘I am here.’ “If you banish every form of oppression, the scornful accusations, and vicious slander," 
Isaiah58:10 and if you offer yourselves in compassion for the hungry and relieve those in misery, then your dawning light will rise in the darkness and your gloom will turn into noonday splendor!" 
Isaiah58:11 Yahweh will always guide you where to go and what to do. He will fill you with refreshment even when you are in a dry, difficult place. He will continually restore strength to you, so you will flourish like a well-watered garden and like an ever-flowing, trustworthy spring of blessing." 
Isaiah58:12 Your people will rebuild long-deserted ruins, building anew on foundations laid long before you. You will be known as Repairers of the Cities and Restorers of Communities." 
Isaiah58:13 “If you stop pursuing your own desires on my holy day, and refrain from disregarding the Sabbath, if you call the Sabbath a delightful pleasure and Yahweh ’s holy day honorable, if you honor it properly by not chasing your own desires, serving your own interests, and speaking empty words," 
Isaiah58:14 then you will find the joyous bliss that comes from serving Yahweh. And I will cause you to prosper and be carried triumphantly over the high places of the land. You will enjoy the heritage of Jacob, your ancestor.” Certainly the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it!" 
Isaiah59:1 Truly Yahweh ’s arm is not too powerless to save you nor his ear too deaf to hear. 
Isaiah59:2 Rather, your sinful deeds have built a barrier between you and your God. Your sins have made God turn his face from you so that he does not hear your prayers." 
Isaiah59:3 For your hands are stained with blood and your fingers are dripping with the guilt of sin. Lies spill from your lips and your tongue mutters treachery. 
Isaiah59:4 No one seeks true justice; no one pleads his case with honesty. They rely on their illusions and misleading lies; they conceive trouble and give birth to sin. 
Isaiah59:5 They hatch harmful plots like snake’s eggs and spin their lies like a spider spins its web. Whoever eats their “eggs” dies and a poisonous snake gets hatched! 
Isaiah59:6 Their “webs” cannot substitute as clothing, they cannot cover themselves with the lies they spin, nor can their works cover them adequately. Their actions are evil, and the wages of violence is in their hands." 
Isaiah59:7 Their feet eagerly run after evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their imaginations are filled with evil; destruction and desolation litter their paths." 
Isaiah59:8 They know nothing of the way of peace, and injustice is their way of life. Their paths are so crooked that no one who walks in them knows peace." 
Isaiah59:9 For this reason, justice is far from us and righteousness doesn’t reach us. We hope for light, but sadly, there is only darkness. We wait for a bright light, but walk in darkness." 
Isaiah59:10 We are like the blind groping along a wall, inching along in the dark like those who cannot see; we stumble around in broad daylight like it was night, like the walking dead." 
Isaiah59:11 We are frustrated, growling like bears, like doves cooing mournfully. We wait and wait for justice, but it never seems to come; for salvation, but it remains distant." 
Isaiah59:12 For our many rebellious deeds are stacked high before you; our sins testify against us. We are aware of our sins, and we know our evil deeds all too well." 
Isaiah59:13 We have rebelled and even tried to deny Yahweh; we have forsaken our God. Our speech stirs up oppression and revolt, and our hearts conceive, then confess, lies." 
Isaiah59:14 Justice is driven away and righteousness stands on the sidelines, for truth has stumbled in the public square and morality cannot enter." 
Isaiah59:15 Yes, truth has disappeared, and those who turn from evil become the next victims. Yahweh saw this and was greatly displeased that there was no justice." 
Isaiah59:16 And then he was astonished to see that there was no champion, not even one, who would rescue the oppressed. So then his own mighty power rescued him, and his own righteousness supported him." 
Isaiah59:17 He put on righteousness as his body armor, salvation for a helmet; a garment of warring vengeance was his uniform and passion, his cape." 
Isaiah59:18 He will repay wrath to his enemies and retribution to his foes, according to what they have done. Reckoning is coming to the islands for what is due them." 
Isaiah59:19 From the west to the lands of the rising sun, the glory and the name of Yahweh will be held in highest reverence, for he will break in as a flooding, rushing river driven on by the breath of Yahweh!" 
Isaiah59:20 “He will come to Zion as a Kinsman-Redeemer to those of Jacob’s tribes who repent of their rebellion,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah59:21 “And this is my covenant promise with them,” says Lord Yahweh. “From now on, my Holy Spirit will rest on them and not depart from them, and my prophetic words will fill their mouths and will not depart from them, nor from their children, nor from their descendants, from now on and forever,” says Lord Yahweh." 
Isaiah60:1 “Rise up in splendor and be radiant, for your light has dawned, and Yahweh ’s glory now streams from you!" 
Isaiah60:2 Look carefully! Darkness blankets the earth, and thick clouds covers the nations, but Yahweh arises upon you and the brightness of his glory appears over you!" 
Isaiah60:3 Nations will be attracted to your radiant light and kings to the sunrise-glory of your new day. 
Isaiah60:4 Lift up your eyes higher! Look all around you and believe, for your sons are returning from far away and your daughters are being tenderly carried home. Watch as they all gather together, eager to come back to you!”" 
Isaiah60:5 “Then you will see with understanding and be radiant. Your heart will be thrilled and swell with joy. The fullness of the sea will flow to you and the wealth of the nations will be transferred to you! 
Isaiah60:6 Caravans of camels will cover your land, young camels loaded with goods from Midian and Ephah. All the wealthy merchants from Sheba will come, bearing gold and frankincense and singing the praises of Yahweh!" 
Isaiah60:7 All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered to you, and the rams of Nebaioth will be yours as acceptable sacrifices on my altar, and I will adorn with more glory my glorious temple." 
Isaiah60:8 “Who are these who soar like clouds, flying like doves into their portals?" 
Isaiah60:9 Indeed, the distant islands eagerly look for me, with their large ships leading the way. They are bringing Zion’s children from afar. They come with offerings of silver and gold to honor the name of Yahweh, your God, the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you!”" 
Isaiah60:10 “Foreigners will rebuild your walls and their kings will serve you. Even though I punished you in my anger, I will restore you in my gracious favor and show you my tender compassion." 
Isaiah60:11 Your gateways will always remain wide open around the clock to let in the procession of kings bringing their constant stream of the riches of the nations. 
Isaiah60:12 The nation or kingdom that refuses to serve you will perish and be utterly ruined. 
Isaiah60:13 Lebanon’s glory will be yours. The cypress, fir, and pine will come to you to beautify the site of my holy place. And I will glorify the place where I rest my feet." 
Isaiah60:14 The descendants of your oppressors will come bowing low before you, and all who hated you will bow down at your feet. They will call you The Beautiful City of Yahweh, Glorious Zion of the Holy One of Israel.”" 
Isaiah60:15 “Although once you were rejected and despised, undesirable for anyone to pass through you, I will make you majestic forever, a source of joy for every generation." 
Isaiah60:16 You will guzzle the milk of nations and suckle at the breast of kings. You will know me intimately that I am Yahweh, your Savior, for I am the Mighty Hero who rules over Jacob’s tribes, your Kinsman-Redeemer!”" 
Isaiah60:17 “I will replace your copper with gold, your iron with silver, your wood with copper, and your stone with iron. I will install peace and prosperity as your government and righteousness as your overseer." 
Isaiah60:18 Threats of violence will no longer be heard in your land, nor will destruction and ruin be found within your borders. You will name your walls Salvation and your gates Praise.”" 
Isaiah60:19 “The sun will no longer be needed to brighten the day, nor the moon to shine at night, for Yahweh will be your unfailing light; your God will be your glory!" 
Isaiah60:20 There will be no more sunsets or new moons, for Yahweh will be your everlasting light and your days of sadness will be over." 
Isaiah60:21 All your people will be righteous and will permanently possess the land. I planted them there as a tender sapling, the work of my own hands to display my glory." 
Isaiah60:22 I will multiply the least of you into a thousand and the weakest one into a mighty nation. I am Yahweh, and when the right time comes, I will accomplish it swiftly!”" 
Isaiah61:1 The mighty Spirit of Lord Yahweh is wrapped around me because Yahweh has anointed me, as a messenger to preach good news to the poor. He sent me to heal the wounds of the brokenhearted, to tell captives, “You are free,” and to tell prisoners, “Be free from your darkness.”" 
Isaiah61:2 I am sent to announce a new season of Yahweh ’s grace and a time of God’s recompense on his enemies, to comfort all who are in sorrow," 
Isaiah61:3 to strengthen those crushed by despair who mourn in Zion— to give them a beautiful bouquet in the place of ashes, the oil of bliss instead of tears, and the mantle of joyous praise instead of the spirit of heaviness. Because of this, they will be known as Mighty Oaks of Righteousness, planted by Yahweh as a living display of his glory." 
Isaiah61:4 They will restore ruins from long ago and rebuild what was long devastated. They will renew ruined cities and desolations of past generations. 
Isaiah61:5 Foreigners will be appointed to shepherd your many flocks; strangers will cultivate your fields and tend your vines. 
Isaiah61:6 But you will be known as Priests of Yahweh, and called Servants of our God. You will feast on the wealth of nations and revel in their riches!" 
Isaiah61:7 Because you received a double dose of shame and dishonor, you will inherit a double portion of endless joy and everlasting bliss!" 
Isaiah61:8 “For I, Yahweh, love fairness and justice, and I hate stealing and sin. I will rightly repay them because of my faithfulness and enter into an everlasting covenant with them." 
Isaiah61:9 Their seed will be famous among the nations, and their descendants the center of attention of the people. All who see them will recognize that they are the seed that Yahweh has blessed with favor!”" 
Isaiah61:10 I will sing and greatly rejoice in Yahweh! My whole being vibrates with shouts of joy in my God! For he has dressed me with salvation and wrapped me in the robe of his righteousness! I appear like a bridegroom on his wedding day, decked out with a beautiful sash, or like a radiant bride adorned with sparkling jewels." 
Isaiah61:11 In the same way the earth produces its crops and seeds spring up in a garden, so will the Lord Yahweh cause righteousness and praise to blossom before all the nations!" 
Isaiah62:1 For Zion’s sake, how can I keep silent? For Jerusalem’s sake, how can I remain quiet? I will keep interceding until her righteousness breaks forth like the blazing light of dawn and her salvation like a burning torch!" 
Isaiah62:2 Nations will see your victory-vindication, and every king will witness your blinding radiance! You will be called by a brand-new name, given to you from the mouth of Yahweh himself." 
Isaiah62:3 You will be a beautiful crown held high in the hand of Yahweh, a royal crown of splendor held in the open palm of your God!" 
Isaiah62:4 You will never again be called the Abandoned One, nor will your land be called Deserted. But you will be called My Delight Is in You, and your land My Beloved Wife, for Yahweh finds his delight in you and he married your land." 
Isaiah62:5 As a young man marries the young woman he loves, so your builder-sons will marry you. As the bridegroom finds joy in his union with his bride, so will your God take joy in his union with you!" 
Isaiah62:6 Jerusalem, I have stationed intercessors on your walls who will never be silent, day or night. You “reminders” of Yahweh, take no rest," 
Isaiah62:7 and tirelessly give God no rest, until he firmly establishes Jerusalem and makes her the praise of all the earth!" 
Isaiah62:8 Yahweh swears an oath by the authority of his right hand and by his mighty arm: “I will never again give your new grain as food for your enemies, nor will foreigners drink your new wine that you worked hard to produce." 
Isaiah62:9 Instead, you who harvest it will eat it and offer your praise to Yahweh, and you who gather the grapes will drink the new wine in my holy courts.”" 
Isaiah62:10 Pass through, pass through the gates, and go from old to new. Prepare a new path for the people. Build! Build up a highway for them to come to me! Remove every hindrance and unfurl a banner for the nations!" 
Isaiah62:11 See? Yahweh has proclaimed to the ends of the earth: Tell my daughter, Zion, “Look, here comes your Deliverer! See? He’s bringing his reward, and his recompense goes before him.”" 
Isaiah62:12 They will be called His Holy People, The Redeemed of Yahweh. And you will be known as Those Whom God Loves, A City Not Abandoned." 
Isaiah63:1 Who is this coming from the city of Bozrah in Edom? He is dressed in garments of bright scarlet, robed in a garment dyed bright red, marching like a champion in his great power and might. “It is I! I am the one who announces righteousness, I am mighty and ready to save!”" 
Isaiah63:2 Why are your robes so red, like those of one treading grapes?" 
Isaiah63:3 “I have been treading in the winepress alone, and there was no one there from the nations to help me. I stomped on the nations in my anger and trampled them down in my wrath. Their blood soaked my clothing and stained all my robes." 
Isaiah63:4 For a day of vengeance was in my heart, and the time for my redeeming work had come." 
Isaiah63:5 I looked, but there was no one to help me. I was amazed that there was no one to support me. So my own power accomplished salvation, and my wrath sustained me." 
Isaiah63:6 So I trampled down nations in my anger and shattered them in my fury and spilled their blood on the ground.” 
Isaiah63:7 I will tell again of the faithful, gracious acts of Yahweh and praise him for everything he has done for us— the wonderful goodness, the riches of his mercy, which he has shown to the house of Israel, and the abundance of his endless love." 
Isaiah63:8 For he said, “Truly, they are my loyal children who will not act deceitfully.” He became their Savior." 
Isaiah63:9 When they suffered, he suffered with them. The Angel of His Presence saved them. Out of his enduring love and compassion he redeemed them. He lifted them up, carried them in his arms, and cared for them all the days of old." 
Isaiah63:10 But they rebelled against him and grieved his Holy Spirit. Only then did he turn against them. He became their enemy and fought against them. 
Isaiah63:11 Then they remembered God’s deeds in days past, the days of Moses and his people. And they asked: “Where now is Yahweh, who brought them miraculously through the Red Sea along with Moses, the shepherd- leader of his flock, and put his Holy Spirit among them?" 
Isaiah63:12 Where now is the one who linked his magnificent power to Moses, who divided the waters before them to gain everlasting fame for himself?" 
Isaiah63:13 Who led them through the depths of the sea? They were as sure-footed as horses on dry, level ground— they did not stumble." 
Isaiah63:14 As a herder leads his cattle to find rest in a fertile valley, the Spirit of Yahweh led them into rest. In the same way, you led your people to win for yourself a glorious name!”" 
Isaiah63:15 Lord, look down from heaven, from your holy, glorious dwelling place, and see us. What happened to your passion for us and your mighty acts of power? Why are you withholding from us your feelings of tender compassion?" 
Isaiah63:16 For you are our loving Father. Even if our ancestors, Abraham and Jacob, don’t acknowledge us, you, O  Yahweh, are our loving Father! From ancient times your name is our Redeemer." 
Isaiah63:17 Yahweh, why do you allow us to wander from your ways and harden our hearts to be so stubborn that we do not obey you? Please come back to us, for the sake of those who serve you, for the sake of your people, the tribes that are your inheritance." 
Isaiah63:18 For a short time your holy people possessed a holy place. But now our enemies have invaded and trampled down your sacred sanctuary. 
Isaiah63:19 You treat us as though we had never been your people, called by your name, or ruled by you." 
Isaiah64:1 God, if only you would tear open the heavenly realm and come down! How the mountains would tremble in your awesome presence!" 
Isaiah64:2 In the same way that fire sets kindling to blaze and causes water to boil, let the fire of your presence come down. Reveal to your enemies your mighty name and cause the nations to tremble before you!" 
Isaiah64:3 When you did amazing wonders we didn’t expect, you came down, and mountains shuddered in your presence!" 
Isaiah64:4 These amazing things had never been heard of before; you did things never dreamed of! No one perceived your greatness. No eye has ever seen a God like you, who intervenes for those who wait and long for you!" 
Isaiah64:5 Those who delight in doing what is right— you go out to meet them with kindness. They remember you and cherish your ways. You showed your anger when we sinned again and again, yet we can be saved." 
Isaiah64:6 We have all become contaminated with sin, and you see our self-righteousness as nothing better than a menstrual rag. We are all like fallen leaves, and our sins sweep us away like the wind." 
Isaiah64:7 No one calls on your name or presses in to lay hold of you, for you have hidden your face from us. You have let us be ruined by our own sins." 
Isaiah64:8 Yet still, Yahweh, you are our Father. We are like clay and you are our Potter. Each one of us is the creative, artistic work of your hands." 
Isaiah64:9 Yahweh, don’t be angry with us! Don’t remember our sins again forever! Please look at us; we are your people." 
Isaiah64:10 Your sacred cities are abandoned like a desert; Zion is a wasteland; Jerusalem sits in ruins. 
Isaiah64:11 Our holy temple, our source of pride, where our ancestors sang your praise, has been consumed by fire. All that we held dear has been destroyed." 
Isaiah64:12 Now, Yahweh, after all this, are you still unmoved? Will you continue to stand silently by and afflict us so severely?" 
Isaiah65:1 “I revealed myself to those who didn’t even ask to know me. Those who did not seek me found me. I said to a nation that did not call on my name, ‘Here I am! Here I am! I will help you! ’" 
Isaiah65:2 Day after day I have graciously outstretched my hands to a people who turned their backs to me, whose way of life is corrupt, who insist on going their own way." 
Isaiah65:3 They are a people who continually insult me to my face. They openly and defiantly offer sacrifices to their gods in their sacred groves and burn incense on pagan altars. 
Isaiah65:4 They sit inside tombs and spend the night in secret caves. They eat pork and their pots are polluted with the broth of unclean meat. 
Isaiah65:5 They tell others, ‘Stay away! Don’t come near; I’m too holy for you to touch.’ These people are like a stench in my nostrils, a smoldering fire that doesn’t go out!" 
Isaiah65:6 Their verdict is determined before me, and I will not keep silent: ‘I will repay them for what they have done; I will pay them back for what their sins deserve," 
Isaiah65:7 for both their sins and the sins of their fathers. Because they burned incense on the high places and blasphemed me on the hills, I will punish them severely, as their actions deserve,’ ” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah65:8 Here is what Yahweh says: “As new wine is found in the cluster, and someone says, ‘Don’t destroy it, for there is a blessing in it,’ that’s what I will do for my servants’ sake. I will not destroy them all." 
Isaiah65:9 I will raise up offspring from Jacob and from my chosen ones of Judah to possess my mountains, and my servants will settle there." 
Isaiah65:10 For my people who seek me, I will make the Plain of Sharon a pasture for flocks in the east, and in the west, the Valley of Trouble will be a resting place for cattle, for my people who seek me and no other god." 
Isaiah65:11 “But you who forsake Yahweh and ignore my holy mountain, who celebrate a feast for the goddess called Lady Luck and fill cups of wine to toast the god Destiny, know this: your luck has run out." 
Isaiah65:12 For I will destine you for the sword! You will all kneel down to be slaughtered like sheep because when I called, you did not answer, and when I spoke, you did not listen! You did evil before me and chose what I despise.”" 
Isaiah65:13 Therefore, this is what the Lord God says: “My servants will eat, but you will go hungry. My servants will drink, but you will go thirsty. My servants will rejoice, but you will be put to shame." 
Isaiah65:14 My servants will sing joyfully with hearts of gladness, but you will cry out from the pain deep inside, and wail from a broken heart." 
Isaiah65:15 When you die, your name will become a curse used by my chosen ones. The Lord God will put you to death, but his godly servants will leave behind the legacy of an honorable name." 
Isaiah65:16 For whoever pronounces a blessing on the earth will do so in the name of the God of Faithfulness. And whoever swears by an oath on the earth will invoke the name of the God of Faithfulness. The failures of the past will be forgotten; they will be hidden from my eyes.” 
Isaiah65:17 “Look! I am creating entirely new heavens and a new earth! They will be so wonderful that no one will even think about the old ones anymore! 
Isaiah65:18 As you wait for the reality of what I am creating, be filled with joy and unending gladness! Look! I am ready to create Jerusalem as a source of sheer joy, and her people, an absolute delight!" 
Isaiah65:19 I will rejoice in this new Jerusalem and find great delight in my people. You will no longer hear the sound of weeping or cries of distress. 
Isaiah65:20 No baby will die in infancy there, and everyone will live out their full lifespan. For when centenarians die, they will be considered youngsters, and anyone who dies earlier will be considered of no account." 
Isaiah65:21 People will build their own houses to live in, and they will not be taken over by someone else. They will plant their own vineyards to enjoy, and they will not be confiscated by someone else. They will live long lives, like age-old trees, and my chosen ones will enjoy to the fullest the work of their hands throughout their lives." 
Isaiah65:22  
Isaiah65:23 They will neither work in vain for someone else, nor will their children face disaster for they will be children and grandchildren who are blessed by Yahweh." 
Isaiah65:24 Before they even call out to me, I will answer them; before they’ve finished telling me what they need, I’ll have already heard." 
Isaiah65:25 The wolf and the lamb will graze side by side, and the lion will eat straw like the ox, and the serpent’s food will be dust. There will be neither violence nor murder on my entire holy mountain of Zion,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:1 This is what Yahweh says: “The heavens are my throne and the earth is my footstool. Where is the house you will build for me? Where is the place where I will rest? 
Isaiah66:2 My hand made these things so they all belong to me,” declares Yahweh. “But there is one my eyes are drawn to: the humble one, the tender one, the trembling one who lives in awe of all I say." 
Isaiah66:3 But the one who offers a bull with no humility is like one who kills a man. The one who offers a lamb without contrition is like one who breaks a dog’s neck. The one who brings grain offerings with no heart-purity is like one who offers pig’s blood! The one who offers incense with no sincerity is like one who kisses an idol! They have all chosen their own way, not mine, and they take delight in these disgusting things!" 
Isaiah66:4 So I chose to punish them and to bring on them what they fear the most because I called out to them and they ignored me. I spoke and they did not listen but did what is evil in my sight and chose what I despise.” 
Isaiah66:5 Hear the words of Yahweh, you who tremble at what he says: “Shame on your own people, who reject you and hate you, claiming they do it for my sake. For they mock you, saying, ‘May Yahweh be glorified; let us see you rejoice.’ ”" 
Isaiah66:6 Listen! A sound of uproar is coming from the city a sound from the temple! It is the thunder of Yahweh as he completely punishes his enemies! 
Isaiah66:7 Zion gave birth suddenly, even before going into labor. She delivered a son without any painful contractions." 
Isaiah66:8 Who has ever seen or heard of such a wonder? Could a country be born in a day? Can a nation be birthed so suddenly? Yet no sooner does Zion go into labor than she gives birth to sons! 
Isaiah66:9 Yahweh, your God, says, “Do I allow you to conceive and not to give birth? Do I shut the womb when I’m the one who delivers?”" 
Isaiah66:10 So rejoice with Jerusalem and be glad for her! All who love her, join in with her great joy, especially those who remember her grief!" 
Isaiah66:11 You, her children, will drink the milk of her prosperity and nurse with delight from her glorious abundance!" 
Isaiah66:12 For Yahweh says: “I will extend to her prosperity like a river and the wealth of gentiles like a flooding river. You will nurse from her breast, be cradled in her arms, and delightfully bounced on her knees." 
Isaiah66:13 As a mother tenderly comforts her child, so will I tenderly comfort you, and you will find comfort in Jerusalem.”" 
Isaiah66:14 When you feast your eyes on this, your heart will leap for joy and be revived; your body will flourish and sprout like grass. The mighty power of Yahweh will be revealed, resting on his servants, but his fury will be shown to his enemies!" 
Isaiah66:15 Look! Yahweh is coming as a raging fire and his chariots like a whirlwind to unleash his anger with fiery fury and with the fiery lightning of his rebuke! 
Isaiah66:16 For with fire and with his sword Yahweh will judge humanity— many will be the slain of Yahweh! 
Isaiah66:17 “The end is near for those who ‘consecrate’ and ‘purify’ themselves to enter their cultic groves! They go in procession one after another into their ceremonies. They eat disgusting foods —pork, mice, and rodents." 
Isaiah66:18 I despise their evil works and their thoughts,” says Yahweh. “The time is coming for me to gather people together from all over the world, and they will come and gaze on my radiance." 
Isaiah66:19 I will set an amazing sign among them. I will send some of the remnant to other nations—to Tarshish, Put, Lud (known for its archers), Tubal, Javan, and distant islands that have never heard of my fame nor gazed on my glory. They will declare my glory among the gentiles!" 
Isaiah66:20 And they will bring back from the nations your own people as an offering to me,” says Yahweh. “They will come on horseback, in chariots, in wagons, on mules and camels to my holy mountain, Jerusalem,” says Yahweh. “In the same way my people bring a grain offering in a sacred vessel to the temple, they will be brought as grain offerings to my holy mountain, Jerusalem, as a holy offering to me." 
Isaiah66:21 And some of them I will appoint as Levitical priests,” says Yahweh." 
Isaiah66:22 This is what Yahweh declares: “The new heavens and the new earth that I am making will remain and endure before me in the same way your offspring and your name will endure. 
Isaiah66:23 From one Sabbath to the next, one month to the next, one year to the next, all humanity will come to worship me!" 
Isaiah66:24 “They will go out of the city and see the dead bodies of those who rebelled against me. For their worm will not die and their fire will never go out. And they will be abhorrent to humanity.” 
Jeremiah1:1 The prophecies of Jeremiah, the son of Hilkiah. Jeremiah was one of the priests from the village of Anathoth in the territory of Benjamin." 
Jeremiah1:2 Yahweh began to reveal his message to him in the thirteenth year of King Josiah son of Amon, king of Judah." 
Jeremiah1:3 Yahweh continued to speak to him throughout the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the fifth month of the eleventh year of the reign of Zedekiah, another son of Josiah, king of Judah. That was when the people of Jerusalem went into captivity to Babylon." 
Jeremiah1:4 Yahweh spoke these words to me: 
Jeremiah1:5 “Before I shaped you in the womb, I knew you intimately. I had divine plans for you before I gave you life, and I set you apart and chose you to be mine. You are my prophetic gift to the nations.”" 
Jeremiah1:6 I replied: “But Lord Yahweh, I don’t know how to speak in public. Besides, I’m too young.”" 
Jeremiah1:7 But Yahweh interrupted me: “Do not use your youth as an excuse, for you will go wherever I send you, and you will speak whatever I tell you to say." 
Jeremiah1:8 Fear nothing when you confront the people, for I am with you, and I will protect you. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah1:9 Then Yahweh reached out with his hand and touched my mouth and said to me: “Now I have put my words in your mouth. 
Jeremiah1:10 See! Today I have imparted to you great authority over nations and governments, to uproot and demolish, to destroy and dismantle. And you will plant and build something new.”" 
Jeremiah1:11 Yahweh spoke to me again: “What do you see, Jeremiah?” I replied: “I see an almond branch.”" 
Jeremiah1:12 “You have seen the vision correctly,” Yahweh said. “Now know this: I constantly watch over my word to fulfill it.”" 
Jeremiah1:13 Yahweh spoke these words to me a second time: “Now what do you see?” I replied, “I see a large boiling pot, tipped toward us from the north.”" 
Jeremiah1:14 Then Yahweh said: “ This means disaster will boil over from the north, and calamity will spill over everyone living in this land." 
Jeremiah1:15 Listen! I, Yahweh, declare that I am about to summon all the armies of the northern kingdoms. Their kings will come and set up their thrones at the gates of Jerusalem. They will attack its walls and all the other cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah1:16 I will pass sentence against the people of Jerusalem and Judah for all their wickedness in deserting me. They have sacrificed to other gods and worshiped the works of their hands. 
Jeremiah1:17 “Jeremiah, get yourself ready! Arise with fresh courage and say to them all that I command you to say. Do not break down before them, lest I break you before them." 
Jeremiah1:18 Listen! Today, I am making you as strong as a fortified city, unbreakable as an iron pillar, and impenetrable as bronze walls. You will withstand the persecution of the whole land and the contempt of Judah’s kings, officers, priests, and all the people." 
Jeremiah1:19 They will fight against you, but they will not win, for I promise I am always with you to rescue you. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah2:1 Yahweh spoke these words to me: 
Jeremiah2:2 “Go, preach this message publicly for all Jerusalem to hear: ‘ Yahweh says to you: “ ‘I fondly remember the single-hearted devotion you had for me in your youth. You loved me deeply as a bride loves a bridegroom. You followed me closely in the desert, in a land where no crops grow." 
Jeremiah2:3 Israel, like the firstfruits of my harvest, I set you apart, and you belonged to me alone. Anyone who devoured you I made to suffer, and I rained disaster down upon them. I, Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Jeremiah2:4 Jacob’s tribes, listen! Every clan of Israel, listen to the words of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah2:5 He declares to you: “What did your ancestors find wrong with me that they would run so far away from me? They left me to follow worthless idols and themselves became worthless! 
Jeremiah2:6 They never stopped to ask themselves, ‘Where is Yahweh, who rescued us from Egypt? Where is the Yahweh who led us through the wilderness, through a barren wasteland with its pits and problems? Where is the one who led us through a land of deserts and droughts, dangers and deep darkness — where no one lives nor even passes through?’" 
Jeremiah2:7 “I brought you to this land of abundance to enjoy its lush fruit and goodness, but you entered the land and defiled my land. You made hideous the very land I call my own." 
Jeremiah2:8 The priests did not stop and ask, ‘Where is Yahweh?’ The scribal scholars did not intimately know me. The shepherds of the people rebelled against me. The false prophets prophesied by the spirit of Baal, and they worshiped idols that could not help them." 
Jeremiah2:9 Therefore I, Yahweh, will bring charges against you once more, and not only against you but against your descendants as well. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah2:10 “Go off to the Greek islands and investigate for yourselves. Take a close look at Kedar also and observe very carefully. Has there ever been anything as disgusting as this? 
Jeremiah2:11 Has a nation ever traded in its gods (even though they are not really gods)? But my people have bartered away their glory in exchange for gods who do nothing. 
Jeremiah2:12 Be appalled, O heavens, and cringe with fear! Be shocked and utterly devastated at this betrayal! I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Jeremiah2:13 “My people are guilty of a double sin: they have abandoned me, the Spring of Living Water, and they have dug for themselves cisterns — cracked cisterns that hold no water.”" 
Jeremiah2:14 “Is Israel a slave? Was he born a slave? Why, then, has he been seized like prey?" 
Jeremiah2:15 His enemies have raged against him, roaring like fierce lions. They leveled his cities, left them without inhabitants, and devastated his land." 
Jeremiah2:16 Moreover, Egyptian armies will march from Memphis and Tahpanhes. They will come and shave your head bald." 
Jeremiah2:17 Israel, you have no one to blame but yourselves! You stubbornly turned away even though Yahweh, your God, was leading you the right way." 
Jeremiah2:18 Why, then, would you now go down to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? Why would you go to Assyria to drink from the river Euphrates?" 
Jeremiah2:19 Your own wickedness punishes you. Your own unfaithfulness rebukes you. Look deep into your heart and you will learn how evil and bitter it is to forsake me, Yahweh your God, and have no awe of me. I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah2:20 “Long ago, you broke your bond with me and severed ties. You boldly said, ‘I will not serve you!’ Yet, on every high hill and under every green tree, you offered yourself to other gods. You were like a prostitute sprawled out awaiting sex." 
Jeremiah2:21 I planted you like a special vine from the absolute best seed, but look at what you’ve become now! You’re like a twisted, rotten vine." 
Jeremiah2:22 Even if you scrubbed yourself with the strongest soap, your guilty stains would remain before my face. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Jeremiah2:23 “How dare you say, ‘I have not defiled myself. I’ve not chased after false gods.’ Look how you behaved badly in the valley. Don’t you realize what you’ve done? You’re like a restless wild camel running loose" 
Jeremiah2:24 or like a wild female donkey accustomed to the wilderness. While in heat, she sniffs the wind, and in her lust, no one can restrain her. Any male that wants her will find her ready." 
Jeremiah2:25 Israel, don’t chase after other gods until you wear out your sandals and your throats are parched with thirst. Yet, you still say, ‘It’s hopeless; I can’t stop chasing them. I desperately love these foreign gods.’ ”" 
Jeremiah2:26 “Just as a thief is ashamed when caught in the act, so all Israel will be shamed— your kings and princes, your prophets and priests." 
Jeremiah2:27 You have called an idol of wood your ‘father’ and an idol of stone your ‘mother.’ You have turned your back toward me instead of your face. But how different it is when you get into trouble! You cry out to me and ask me to come and save you. 
Jeremiah2:28 Now where are all your homemade gods? They are nowhere to be found. Let them arise and save you in your time of trouble! Judah, you have as many gods as you have villages!" 
Jeremiah2:29 What right do you have to complain about me? You have all rebelled against me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah2:30 “I’ve wasted my time punishing you because you did not respond to my correction. With the ferocity of a hungry lion, you murdered the prophets I sent to you." 
Jeremiah2:31 “O people of this generation, see the word of Yahweh: Have I been like a wilderness to Israel or a dangerous land full of gloom? Then why do my people say, ‘We’re free to do as we want, and we have no intention of returning to serve you anymore.’" 
Jeremiah2:32 Does a young woman disregard her engagement ring, or does a bride forget about her wedding dress? Yet, my people have continually forgotten me." 
Jeremiah2:33 How skillfully you pursue your lovers; even the worst adulterers could learn from you. 
Jeremiah2:34 Your clothes are stained with the lifeblood of the helpless and innocent, though you did not catch them breaking into your home. Despite all your guilt," 
Jeremiah2:35 you dare to say, ‘I’m innocent! Yahweh is not angry with me anymore.’ But watch out! I, Yahweh, will judge you for perjury because you say: ‘I have not sinned.’" 
Jeremiah2:36 Look how you cheapen yourself by constantly shifting your course. Egypt will put you to shame just as Assyria did. 
Jeremiah2:37 You will turn away from Egypt utterly humiliated, for I, Yahweh, have completely rejected those you trust. No alliance will be able to help you!”" 
Jeremiah3:1 Here’s what Yahweh says: “If a man divorces his wife and she marries another, would he return to her again? Doing that would thoroughly defile the land. And you, Israel, have prostituted yourself with many lovers, yet now you want to come back to me? I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Jeremiah3:2 “Look up to the barren heights and carefully consider: Is there any place where you have not offered yourself as a prostitute? You have sat by the roadside waiting for lovers, sitting like a nomad in the desert. You have defiled the land with your prostitution and wickedness." 
Jeremiah3:3 Therefore, I have withheld the rains, and the spring showers have not come. Yet, there you sit with the shameless, brazen look of a prostitute who refuses to blush." 
Jeremiah3:4 And yet you have the nerve to say to me, ‘Father! You’ve been my trusted companion as long as I’ve lived." 
Jeremiah3:5 Surely, you won’t hold a grudge against me forever, right? You won’t always be angry with me, will you?’ This is only what you say, but you keep on doing all the evil you can get away with!”" 
Jeremiah3:6 During Josiah’s reign as king of Judah, Yahweh asked me, “Did you see what unfaithful Israel has done? Like an adulterous wife, she has turned away from me. In every high place and under every green tree, she has prostituted herself to worship other gods." 
Jeremiah3:7 I thought that after all she had done, she would return to me, but she did not return. Meanwhile her treacherous sister, Judah, looked on." 
Jeremiah3:8 She saw me give unfaithful Israel her divorce papers and send her away because of her continued adultery. Her treacherous sister, Judah, likewise had no fear; she, too, acted like a prostitute." 
Jeremiah3:9 Her infidelity mattered little to her. She polluted the land and committed adultery by worshiping idolatrous stone and wood pillars. 
Jeremiah3:10 Even after all this, Israel’s treacherous sister, Judah, refused to return to me with her whole heart; instead, she came with only deceitful lies,” declared Yahweh." 
Jeremiah3:11 And Yahweh continued, “Even unfaithful Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah." 
Jeremiah3:12 Go and carry this message to those living in the north: “ ‘ Yahweh is speaking to you, unfaithful Israel: Return to me. For my faithful love for you never ends. No frown of mine awaits you, declares Yahweh. I will not remain angry with you forever, for I am merciful, declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah3:13 Only admit your guilt! You have rebelled against Yahweh your God. You have lavished your love on foreign gods under every green tree. You have not listened to my voice. I, Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Jeremiah3:14 “ ‘I say to you, Come back to me, my wayward children, and I will restore you. I will take you, one from each city and two from each clan, and bring you home to Zion because I alone am your true husband.’ ”" 
Jeremiah3:15 “ ‘I will give you true shepherds who follow my heart, and they will feed you with revelation-knowledge and deep understanding.’ ”" 
Jeremiah3:16 Yahweh says, “When my children have increased and prospered in the land, then no one will mention the ark of the covenant of Yahweh. It will never even come to mind. No one will remember it, miss it, or make another one." 
Jeremiah3:17 When that day comes, they will call Jerusalem the throne of Yahweh. All nations will be drawn there to be in the presence of Yahweh. They will no longer stubbornly follow their own evil hearts." 
Jeremiah3:18 In those days, the nation of Judah will unite with the nation of Israel. And together, they will return from the northern lands to the land that I gave your ancestors as your own inheritance.”" 
Jeremiah3:19 “I, Yahweh, said: “ ‘What bliss would fill my heart to treat you like an honored son! What joy would fill my heart to give you a land of delights, the most glorious and beautiful inheritance among the nations.’ I longed for the day when you would call me ‘Father’ and not turn away from me." 
Jeremiah3:20 Instead, as a treacherous wife betrays her husband, so, you, nation of Israel, have betrayed me. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah3:21 I hear the sound of voices echoing from the barren hills, the bitter weeping of the sons of Israel pleading for mercy because they lost their moral way and have forgotten Yahweh their God." 
Jeremiah3:22 “Come back to me, you unfaithful ones! Let me heal your waywardness and restore your faithfulness.” “ We’re here! We’re coming back to you, Yahweh, because you are our God." 
Jeremiah3:23 We see it now. Our idolatrous worship on the high places and our noisy commotion on the mountains were nothing but delusions. Only you, Yahweh our God, can save us." 
Jeremiah3:24 Ever since we were young, Baal, the god of shame, has robbed us of the abundance our ancestors labored for— their flocks and herds, their precious sons and daughters." 
Jeremiah3:25 We deserve to lie down in our shame and be covered by our disgrace. Ever since we were young, we and our ancestors have sinned against our God, Yahweh. We failed to really listen to your voice, Yahweh our God.”" 
Jeremiah4:1 “I, Yahweh, say to Israel: “Listen, if you turn to come back to me, then return to me with all your heart. If you remove your disgusting idols from before my face, then come home and never stray from my presence again." 
Jeremiah4:2 If you make a promise in my name, saying, ‘As surely as Yahweh lives’ with truth, honesty, and integrity, then all other nations will desire his blessing and prosperity. They will shine and make their boast in me.”" 
Jeremiah4:3 Yahweh says to the people of Judah and Jerusalem: “As a plow breaks open untilled ground, break open your hard hearts. Do not sow good seed among thorns." 
Jeremiah4:4 Listen, people of Judah and Jerusalem. Circumcise your hearts and become vulnerable to me. If you do not, my anger will blaze up like unquenchable fire on account of your evil deeds.”" 
Jeremiah4:5 Yahweh says: “Blow the trumpet in Jerusalem, and sound the alarm throughout the land of Judah! Cry out! Shout it out, and say, ‘Gather together and let us run into the fortified cities!’" 
Jeremiah4:6 Set up a signal to run to Zion. Don’t just stand there; run for cover! I am bringing disaster from the north, terrible destruction is on the way.”" 
Jeremiah4:7 A nation-wrecker is on the prowl like a lion coming up from his lair. He is roused from his den to ransack your land. Your cities will be ruined and left without inhabitant. 
Jeremiah4:8 Therefore, put on sackcloth, lament, and wail, for the burning anger of Yahweh has not turned away from us." 
Jeremiah4:9 Yahweh has declared, “In that day, the courage of the king will melt away. The hearts of his officials will tremble. The priests will be overcome with fear, and the prophets horrified.”" 
Jeremiah4:10 In response to all this I said: “O Lord Yahweh, you have completely deceived Jerusalem and these people! You promised peace, yet even now, the blade of the sword threatens our lives.”" 
Jeremiah4:11 At that time it will be said to the people and to Jerusalem: “A blazing wind from the barren desert heights will blow upon my dear people, not a gentle wind to winnow or sift out—" 
Jeremiah4:12 I am sending a wind much stronger than that. Now, I will bring charges against them.”" 
Jeremiah4:13 Look, as a storm cloud in the sky, he arises, and his war chariots kick up dust like a whirlwind. His horses are swifter than eagles. We’re done for! It’s over for us!" 
Jeremiah4:14 Jerusalem, wash the evil from your heart so that you may be rescued. How long will evil thoughts and harmful schemes find a resting place in you?" 
Jeremiah4:15 I hear a shout warning of disaster from the territory of Dan and another from the hills of Ephraim. 
Jeremiah4:16 “Warn the nations of what is coming! Announce to Jerusalem: ‘Watchers are coming from a distant land, shouting a battle cry against Judah’s cities!" 
Jeremiah4:17 The enemies surround Judah and Jerusalem like men who are guarding a field, for Judah has rebelled against me,’ ” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah4:18 “You have brought this on yourself by your deeds and your lifestyle. Your evil and your bitterness have reached your heart. This is your doom!” 
Jeremiah4:19 With gut-wrenching pain deep in my soul, I writhe on the ground in anguish. My heart is pounding within me. I cannot keep silent, for I hear the shofar blast. I say to my soul, I hear the cry of war!" 
Jeremiah4:20 A chain of disasters, one after another. The entire land is in ruins! Suddenly, and in an instant, our tent and its curtains are destroyed." 
Jeremiah4:21 How long must I see their battle flags and hear their shofars blaring for battle? 
Jeremiah4:22 “My people are foolish because they don’t know who I really am. They are reckless, senseless children. They think they are wise, but they are cunning in sinfulness and clueless in righteousness.”" 
Jeremiah4:23 I looked at the earth, and it was completely empty and formless, the heavens hid its light." 
Jeremiah4:24 I looked at the mountains and saw them trembling, and all the hills were shaking to and fro." 
Jeremiah4:25 I looked for a human, but not one was to be found. Every bird had flown away." 
Jeremiah4:26 I looked at the once fruitful land, now nothing but a desert, all its cities left in ruins before Yahweh ’s burning anger." 
Jeremiah4:27 “For I, Yahweh, have spoken: ‘The whole land will remain desolate; however, the end of the world is not yet." 
Jeremiah4:28 This is why the earth will mourn, and the heavens will veil their light— because I have spoken. I will neither relent nor turn away from my plans.’ ”" 
Jeremiah4:29 When they hear the approach of the horsemen and archers, the whole city flees in terror. Some run into the forest to hide, and others climb up into the rocks. Every city is deserted, and no one lives there anymore." 
Jeremiah4:30 And you, desolate Zion, what are you doing dressing up in scarlet, adorning yourself in ornaments of gold and putting on eye shadow? You’re making yourself beautiful for nothing. Your lovers don’t want you anymore. In fact, they seek your life!" 
Jeremiah4:31 I heard a cry of a woman gasping in labor pains; I saw her writhing in distress as one giving birth to her first child. It is the daughter of Zion, gasping and stretching out her hands for help, saying: “I’m staring at death! I’m fainting before my murderers!”" 
Jeremiah5:1 “Roam the streets of Jerusalem; search her streets and public squares, and note what you see. See if you can find even one person who pursues justice. If you find even one acting with integrity, I will surely spare Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah5:2 Though they take an oath, saying, ‘As surely as Yahweh lives,’ Yet they are taking my name in vain.”" 
Jeremiah5:3 Yahweh, your eyes search for truth. You struck them down, but they felt no pain. You nearly destroyed them, but they still refused to accept correction. Their stubborn faces hardened like rock; they defiantly refused to repent." 
Jeremiah5:4 I thought, “These poor people are senseless, for they know neither God’s ways nor the justice of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah5:5 Let me go to the people in power, and let me speak to them. Surely, they must know what Yahweh demands and what God requires of them.” Yet they, too, have renounced obedience to God and have torn themselves away from him." 
Jeremiah5:6 Therefore, a lion from the forest will attack them, and a desert wolf will ravage them. A leopard is prowling around their cities, waiting to tear those apart who venture out. For the people are rebellious; they’ve sinned repeatedly." 
Jeremiah5:7 “On what basis can I forgive you? Your children have forsaken me and sworn by gods that are not real. Even though I satisfied my people to the full, they committed adultery, beating a path to a whorehouse." 
Jeremiah5:8 They’re like well-fed stallions lusting for mares; each man ‘neighs’ with lust after his neighbor’s wife. 
Jeremiah5:9 Because of these things, will I not hold my people accountable? Am I not justified to punish a nation such as this? I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah5:10 “Here is what I, Yahweh, have decreed: ‘I will send your enemies to cut the branches from your vines, but they won’t destroy them completely. I will tell them to strip away your branches. The people of Judah and Israel have been utterly unfaithful to me and are no longer mine.’ ”" 
Jeremiah5:11  
Jeremiah5:12 They have lied about Yahweh, saying, “No disaster is coming. We won’t experience sword or famine. He won’t let anything happen to us." 
Jeremiah5:13 The prophets are full of hot air, and they do not have the word of Yahweh in them. May their threats backfire upon themselves!”" 
Jeremiah5:14 Therefore, because the people have spoken these lies, Yahweh, the God of Angel Armies, said to me: “See! The words I put in your mouth will be as a fire. My words will consume these people like kindling." 
Jeremiah5:15 I, Yahweh, say to the people of Israel: ‘I am stirring up a distant nation, an ancient, warring nation to attack you. Her people will speak a language you do not know, a language you won’t understand." 
Jeremiah5:16 The quivers of her mighty warriors are like a welcoming tomb, inviting death and destruction, for all her warriors are proven in battle." 
Jeremiah5:17 They will devour your harvest and your food. They will devour your sons and your daughters. They will devour your flocks and your herds, and devour your vines and your fig trees. You put your trust in your fortified cities, but they will ransack them and slaughter the inhabitants.’ ”" 
Jeremiah5:18 “Yet even then,” Yahweh said to me, “I will not completely eliminate you." 
Jeremiah5:19 And when people ask you, ‘Why did Yahweh our God bring this tragedy upon us?’ You will answer, ‘As you have forsaken Yahweh and served foreign gods in your land, so you will serve strangers in a foreign land.’" 
Jeremiah5:20 “Declare this to the descendants of Jacob and spread it throughout Judah: 
Jeremiah5:21 ‘Pay attention, you foolish and senseless people. They have eyes but refuse to see. They have ears but refuse to hear." 
Jeremiah5:22 I, Yahweh, am speaking to you. Do you not fear? Do you not tremble in awe in my presence? I made the sand as a border for the sea, an ancient barrier that it does not pass. Though the waves roar and beat against it, they can neither go beyond it nor break through it." 
Jeremiah5:23 But these people have stubborn, rebellious hearts. They all turn aside and go their own way." 
Jeremiah5:24 They never say in their heart, “Let us now give reverence to Yahweh our God who gives us showers at the time of his favor, the early and latter rain in its season, and graciously gives us a harvest each year.”" 
Jeremiah5:25 The guilt of your sins has upset nature’s order and withheld my blessings from you. Your sins have kept these good things from you!’ ” 
Jeremiah5:26 “Lurking among my people are wicked criminals. They are like hunters hiding to catch birds in their nets, setting their traps to catch people." 
Jeremiah5:27 Like cages full of captured birds, they fill their houses with lies and deceit. This is how they have become rich and powerful," 
Jeremiah5:28 fat and prosperous. Indeed, their wickedness knows no bounds. There is no true justice in their judgments— they neither stand up for the rights of the orphans, nor help the needy receive their fair portion." 
Jeremiah5:29 I, Yahweh, promise to hold them accountable for these things. I will be justified to punish a nation such as this." 
Jeremiah5:30 “A shocking and horrible thing has happened in the land. 
Jeremiah5:31 The prophets prophesy lies, and the priests lead out of their own self-interest. And my people love it that way. But what will they do when judgment comes?”" 
Jeremiah6:1 “People of Benjamin, flee for your lives! Leave Jerusalem! Blow the shofar to warn the city of Tekoa! Send up a smoke signal at Beth Hakkerem! For disaster looms out of the north, a great destruction threatens you." 
Jeremiah6:2 Daughter Zion, you are so lovely and delicate, but I will destroy you." 
Jeremiah6:3 As shepherds pasture many flocks all around a city, so the camps of enemy soldiers encircle you, like many flocks of grazing sheep." 
Jeremiah6:4 In the morning, the soldiers will say, ‘Come on, prepare for war! We attack Jerusalem at noon!’ But later, as the sun grows hot, they will complain, ‘Woe to us, for the day is fading, and the shadows of evening grow long." 
Jeremiah6:5 Arise, let us go up and attack tonight, then we will easily destroy her strongholds.’ ”" 
Jeremiah6:6 Here is what Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “Cut down the trees and set up a siege ramp against Jerusalem. This is a city ripe for punishment because she is riddled with brutal oppression." 
Jeremiah6:7 As a spring pours out its fresh water, so she pours out her fresh evil. All I see are the sick and wounded; the violence and destruction within her cry out." 
Jeremiah6:8 Learn your lesson, Jerusalem, lest I turn my back on you in disgust and make the whole land desolate, a land where no one lives!”" 
Jeremiah6:9 Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, says: “As one gleans the grapes that remain in a vineyard, those who remain of Israel will be gleaned. As the hand of the grape gatherer goes through the vines one last time, the Babylonians will glean what the Assyrians leave behind.”" 
Jeremiah6:10 If I speak to warn the remnant of Israel, no one will listen. Their ears are blocked, and they are incapable of hearing. The word of Yahweh has become an object of scorn; it’s no longer a pleasure for them." 
Jeremiah6:11 The fury of Yahweh has filled me, and I am weary of trying to hold it in. “Pour it out on every child playing in the street, on the young men gathered there. Women and men alike will be taken captive, both the middle aged and those advanced in years." 
Jeremiah6:12 Strangers will seize their homes, their fields, and their wives. For I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah6:13 “From the smallest to the greatest, they are greedy for corrupt profits; prophet and priest alike, they all practice deceit." 
Jeremiah6:14 They treat the wounds of my people as though they were scratches. They say, ‘Peace, everything is well,’ when there is no peace, and nothing is well." 
Jeremiah6:15 Although they have acted shamefully and committed abhorrent acts, they feel no shame; they don’t even know how to blush. They will fall among the fallen and stumble in their time of reckoning, I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah6:16 Yahweh said to his people: “Stand at the crossroads. Now, consider your ways and ask for the ancient paths. Which is God’s way? Walk on his path, and you’ll enjoy a resting place for yourselves. But they said, ‘We will not. That’s not the path we want. ’ ”" 
Jeremiah6:17 Yahweh said, “I raised up prophetic watchmen to warn you: ‘Pay attention to the sound of the shofar!’ Still, they replied, ‘We will not.’" 
Jeremiah6:18 Hear well then, O nations, and observe as witnesses what’s in store for them." 
Jeremiah6:19 Hear, O earth! I am bringing a catastrophe to these people, the fruit of their own evil schemes. For they refused to listen to my words, and threw all my instructions and warnings to the wind.”" 
Jeremiah6:20 “What use to me is all this frankincense that you’ve imported from Sheba and all these exotic spices from distant lands? I will not accept your burnt offerings; the aroma of your sacrifices is no longer sweet to me.” 
Jeremiah6:21 So this is what Yahweh has said: “I will put obstacles before these people, and they will stumble and fall over them. Fathers and children, neighbors and friends, all will die.”" 
Jeremiah6:22 This is what Yahweh has said: “Look! They’re coming! Warriors approach from the north. From the remote parts of the earth, a great nation is preparing for war." 
Jeremiah6:23 Armed with bows and spears, they are merciless and cruel. The sound of their armies riding their horses is like the roaring sea. The cavalry is formed for battle and ready to attack you, O Fair Zion!”" 
Jeremiah6:24 The people say: “We have heard the news, and our strength fails. Like a woman in childbirth, we are in agony, seized with pain." 
Jeremiah6:25 Don’t go out into the field; stay off the streets! For our enemies are armed, and there is terror on every side.”" 
Jeremiah6:26 My dear people, it’s time to mourn. Put on sackcloth and sprinkle ashes on yourselves. Mourn as you would for an only child. Wail bitterly, for suddenly the destroyer will be upon us." 
Jeremiah6:27 Yahweh said to me: “I have made you as one who tests metals among my people. In the same way a person tests metal, you will perceive and test their ways." 
Jeremiah6:28 They are the most stubborn of rebels. Each one spreads slander and practices dishonesty. They are as hard as bronze and iron. 
Jeremiah6:29 Though the bellows blow fiercely, yet the smelter smelts to no avail. Fire melts and burns away the lead, but my refining fire fails to separate the dross of their wickedness." 
Jeremiah6:30 They are called ‘rejected silver,’ for Yahweh has rejected them.”" 
Jeremiah7:1 This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah7:2 “Go stand at the gate of Yahweh ’s house and proclaim this word: ‘Hear this word from Yahweh, all you people of Judah who come through these gates to worship him." 
Jeremiah7:3 Here’s what the God of Israel, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: Change your ways and start living right, and I will let you dwell in this land." 
Jeremiah7:4 Don’t fool yourselves by trusting the deceptive words, saying: “The temple of Yahweh is here, the temple of Yahweh is here, the temple of Yahweh is here, so we are safe.”" 
Jeremiah7:5 For if you truly change your ways and start living right, if you deal justly with one another," 
Jeremiah7:6 if you don’t mistreat the foreigner, the orphan, and the widow, if you don’t shed innocent blood in this land, if you stop your self-destructive ways of chasing after other gods," 
Jeremiah7:7 then I will let you dwell in this place, here in the land that I gave to your forefathers for all time." 
Jeremiah7:8 “ ‘Look, you keep putting your trust in worthless lies." 
Jeremiah7:9 You think you can steal and murder, commit adultery and perjury, burn incense to Baal, and go after other gods that you have not known," 
Jeremiah7:10 and then come and stand in my presence? You think you can come into this house called by my name and say, “We are safe!”—only to keep doing all these disgusting things?" 
Jeremiah7:11 Do you really consider this house that bears my name to be a robbers’ den? I know everything that you have been doing! I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Jeremiah7:12 “ ‘Just go to the place where my sanctuary once stood in Shiloh, where I first made a dwelling place for my name. And when you see its rubble, understand what I did in response to the wickedness of the people of Israel." 
Jeremiah7:13 Even while you were doing these things, I, Yahweh, spoke to you over and over and called to you, but you would neither listen nor answer me." 
Jeremiah7:14 So I will do to this temple what I did before in Shiloh. You have put your trust in this temple, which bears my name, but I will destroy this very sanctuary that I gave to you and your ancestors." 
Jeremiah7:15 And I will cast you away from my presence as I cast away all your brothers, all the descendants of Ephraim.’ ”" 
Jeremiah7:16 “ Jeremiah, do not pray for these people, do not lift up a cry or a prayer for them, and do not intercede with me, for I will not hear you." 
Jeremiah7:17 Don’t you see what they’re doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
Jeremiah7:18 The children gather wood, the fathers kindle the fire, and the wives knead dough to make ritual cakes for the goddess Ishtar, known as the Queen of Heaven. They also pour out drink offerings to other gods to defy me." 
Jeremiah7:19 Yet, I am not the one they are hurting, says Yahweh; they are hurting themselves to their own shame." 
Jeremiah7:20 Therefore, listen to the words of the Lord Yahweh: ‘My anger and my wrath will be poured out in this place, on the people and the animals, on the trees and on the crops; my anger will burn as a fire that no one can put out.’" 
Jeremiah7:21 “This is what Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies says: ‘You might as well eat all your burnt offerings yourselves." 
Jeremiah7:22 For when I led your ancestors out of Egypt, I did not command them to bring me burnt offerings and sacrifices." 
Jeremiah7:23 Rather, I commanded them: “Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. Live your lives according to what I command you that all may go well with you.”" 
Jeremiah7:24 But they did not listen or obey. They followed their own stubborn plans of their evil hearts. They disrespected me and went backward, not forward." 
Jeremiah7:25 From the day that I led your ancestors out of Egypt until now, I have persistently sent you my servants the prophets," 
Jeremiah7:26 but my people did not listen to me or obey; rather, they stubbornly did more evil than their fathers.’" 
Jeremiah7:27 “And when you tell them all this, they will not hear you. You will call to them, but they won’t respond to you." 
Jeremiah7:28 Then you will say to them: ‘You are the nation that refused to listen to the voice of your God, Yahweh. Truth has perished and disappeared from their lips, for they did not accept Yahweh ’s correction.’ ”" 
Jeremiah7:29 “ People of Jerusalem, cut off your long hair and throw it away, and raise your song of mourning on the hilltops, for Yahweh has rejected and abandoned the generation of his fury." 
Jeremiah7:30 For Yahweh says: ‘The people of Judah have done what is evil before my eyes. They have defiled the house that bears my name by placing their detestable idols inside it. 
Jeremiah7:31 And in the Hinnom Valley, they have built shrines of Topheth to sacrifice their sons and daughters in the fire—something I never commanded, nor did it ever enter my thoughts." 
Jeremiah7:32 Therefore, the time is coming, says Yahweh, when it will not be known as Topheth or the Hinnom Valley but the Valley of Slaughter, for people will bury their dead in Topheth until no room is left." 
Jeremiah7:33 Their corpses will be food for the birds and wild animals with no one to frighten them away. 
Jeremiah7:34 I will silence the sounds of mirth and gladness from the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem, the happy sounds of wedding feasts —the voice of the bride and bridegroom, for the land will become a wasteland.’ ”" 
Jeremiah8:1 Here is what Yahweh says: “At that time, they will desecrate the graves of Jerusalem and bring out the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of its princes, the bones of the priests, the bones of the false prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of the city." 
Jeremiah8:2 They will spread them out before the sun and the moon and all the stars of heaven, which they loved and served. They went after cosmic powers, inquired of them, bowed down before them in adoration, and worshiped them. Because they did these things, their bones will not be buried but will become fertilizer for the ground." 
Jeremiah8:3 However, I will leave some of these evil people alive and banish them to other places. Yet all the survivors will prefer death over life. For I, Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah8:4 “ Jeremiah, say to the people, ‘ Yahweh says: “ ‘Don’t people get back up when they fall down? Don’t they turn around when they take the wrong road?" 
Jeremiah8:5 So why have you, the people of Jerusalem, continually refused to turn back to me? Why do you cling so tightly to your deception instead of coming home to me?’ ”" 
Jeremiah8:6 I have listened carefully to what they say, but nothing they say is right. No one is sorry about his sin, saying, “What have I done wrong?” Everyone keeps on going his own way, like a war-horse plunging headlong into battle." 
Jeremiah8:7 “Even the stork in the skies knows her season of migration. And migratory birds —the turtledove, the swallow, and the crane — instinctively take flight according to the times I have set for them, but my people pay no attention to the orders of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah8:8 How dare you say, ‘We are wise, because we have the law of Yahweh?’ Look! The scribes teach lies about the law. They have made the law itself into a lie!" 
Jeremiah8:9 The know-it-alls will be shamed, terrorized, and trapped. They walked away from the word of Yahweh, so wisdom walked away from them." 
Jeremiah8:10 Therefore I will give their wives to other men and their fields to those who will take over the land. From the smallest to the greatest, they are all greedy for corrupt profits; priest and prophet alike, they all practice deceit." 
Jeremiah8:11 And they treat the wounds of my beloved people as though they were scratches. ‘Don’t worry,’ they say. ‘Peace, everything is well,’ when there is no peace, and nothing is well." 
Jeremiah8:12 They have acted shamefully, and have committed abhorrent acts, yet they feel no shame. They don’t know how to blush. Surely, they will fall among the fallen, and stumble when I deal with them,” says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah8:13 Yahweh says: “I will surely make an end of them. There will be neither cluster on the vine nor figs on the fig trees— even the leaves have withered. I gave them a good harvest, but it escaped from them.”" 
Jeremiah8:14 Why are we just sitting here? Let’s band together and go inside our walled cities and await our death, since Yahweh our God has condemned us to die. He has given us our bitter poison to drink, for we have sinned against him." 
Jeremiah8:15 We had hoped for peace and prosperity, but no blessing came. We had hoped for a time of healing, but we were overtaken by sudden terror!" 
Jeremiah8:16 The snorting of his horses is heard from Dan. At the sound of the cries of his stallions, the whole land quakes. They have entered to completely devastate the land, Jerusalem, and its inhabitants." 
Jeremiah8:17 “For look! I am sending slithering snakes to bite you— venomous vipers that cannot be charmed,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah8:18 My joy has vanished, grief grips my soul, and I am sick at heart." 
Jeremiah8:19 Listen! I hear my beloved people crying out in despair throughout the land: “Is Yahweh no longer in Zion? Is her King not dwelling within her?” “So why have they provoked me to anger with their carved images and with their foreign, phony gods?”" 
Jeremiah8:20 “Summer has ended, the harvest is past, and still we are not saved!”" 
Jeremiah8:21 I am broken over the brokenness of my dear people. I mourn all day long. Horror has gripped me. 
Jeremiah8:22 Is there no healer in Gilead? Is there no medicine there? Why then have the people I love not been healed? 
Jeremiah9:1 How I wish my head were a reservoir that could weep a fountain of tears. I would weep day and night for my beloved ones who have been slain! 
Jeremiah9:2 If only I had a shelter in the wilderness, a place for weary travelers to spend the night. Then I could leave my people and go away from them because they’re all unfaithful to God — a company of corrupters." 
Jeremiah9:3 Yahweh says: “They shoot out lies with their tongues, just as an archer uses a bow to shoot arrows. Their lies have prevailed in the land, but they are not faithful to Yahweh. My people go from one evil thing to another because they do not know my heart." 
Jeremiah9:4 Beware of your neighbor and do not even trust your brother, for every brother is a cheater, and every friend is a slanderer." 
Jeremiah9:5 They all are professional liars who lie to their neighbors. They are completely dishonest, and have trained their tongues to lie. They weary themselves doing wrong." 
Jeremiah9:6 Jeremiah, you live surrounded by oppression, deceit heaped upon deceit, and the people refuse to intimately know me,” says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah9:7 Therefore, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “Listen! I will refine my dear people by fire and test them because of what they have done. I have no other choice." 
Jeremiah9:8 Their words are deadly arrows poisoned with deceit. Each one greets his neighbor with ‘Shalom,’ but deep in his heart, he secretly sets a trap for him." 
Jeremiah9:9 I, Yahweh, will hold them accountable for these things. And I will take vengeance to punish a nation such as this.”" 
Jeremiah9:10 I will weep and wail for the mountains and sing mournful songs for the pasturelands, for they are burned, with no one passing through. No one hears the lowing of cattle; birds and beasts of the field have fled—they are gone." 
Jeremiah9:11 “I, Yahweh, will turn Jerusalem into rubble, a den of jackals. And I will turn the cities of Judah into ghost towns where no one lives.”" 
Jeremiah9:12 Why is the land burned and destroyed, left like an uninhabited wilderness? Who is wise enough to understand this? Who is the prophet with a word from Yahweh to explain it?" 
Jeremiah9:13 Yahweh himself supplies the answer: “Because they have rejected my laws, which I gave them, they refused to live as I told them, and they have not listened to my voice." 
Jeremiah9:14 Instead, they stubbornly followed their hearts’ desires and chased after the Baals, just like their ancestors taught them." 
Jeremiah9:15 Therefore I, Yahweh, the God of Israel and Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: “Look! I will feed them bitter wormwood, and give them poisonous water to drink." 
Jeremiah9:16 I will also scatter them among the nations. They will live as exiles among people they and their fathers have never known. I will send the sword after them until I have made an end of them.” 
Jeremiah9:17 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “Look around you and discern. Summon the wailing women. Call for those most skilled at mourning." 
Jeremiah9:18 Let them hurry and wail over us that our eyes may overflow with tears and our eyelids gush with water. 
Jeremiah9:19 For the voice of wailing is heard from Zion: ‘We are so ruined and shamed! We have had to leave our land because enemies have demolished our homes.’ ” 
Jeremiah9:20 Women, listen to the word of Yahweh and take to heart the word he speaks. Teach your daughters to mourn; teach your neighbor a funeral song." 
Jeremiah9:21 For Death has crept in through our windows, forcing its way past our fortified defenses, cutting down the child playing outside and the young men in the streets." 
Jeremiah9:22 Tell everyone: “This is the prophecy of Yahweh: ‘Corpses will lie unburied like dung on the open field, like stalks of grain after the reaper, with no one to gather them up.’ ”" 
Jeremiah9:23 Yahweh says: “The wise must not boast in their wisdom, the mighty must not boast in their power, and the wealthy must not boast in their riches." 
Jeremiah9:24 If you’re going to boast, then boast about this: that you understand my ways and know my heart, and you know that I am Yahweh. Let the wise boast in knowing how I demonstrate infinite love, true justice, and righteousness, for these are the things that delight my heart,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah9:25 “Look,” Yahweh says, “the day is coming when I will punish all who are circumcised in the flesh only:" 
Jeremiah9:26 the Egyptians, the people of Judah, the Edomites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, and the tribes in the desert who shave their heads bald. The men in all those lands are uncircumcised. And the Israelites are just like them because their hearts are uncircumcised.”" 
Jeremiah10:1 Israel! Hear the word Yahweh speaks to you. 
Jeremiah10:2 Yahweh says: “Do not adopt the ways of other nations or be terrified by unusual signs in the heavens even though the unbelieving nations are in awe of them. 
Jeremiah10:3 For the religious practices of the nations are delusions. They cut down a tree from the forest, then a craftsman fashions it with his hands." 
Jeremiah10:4 He adorns his idol with silver and gold and takes hammer and nails to secure it so it won’t wobble. 
Jeremiah10:5 Their idols are like speechless scarecrows standing in a field; someone must carry them around because they can’t even take a step. So don’t fear them in any way, for they are incapable of doing good or evil.”" 
Jeremiah10:6 Yahweh, there is no God like you; you are unrivaled in your greatness and might! The power of your name is so great!" 
Jeremiah10:7 King of the nations, who would not fear you? Yes, it is proper to reverence you. Among all the wise ones of the nations and among all their royal ones, there is still no one as magnificent as you." 
Jeremiah10:8 What wisdom could they glean from a block of wood? They are foolish blockheads, one and all." 
Jeremiah10:9 They cover their idols with beaten, refined silver and gold, even fine gold. The hammer of a craftsman and the hands of a goldsmith craft their image, robing them in garments of violet and purple. They are nothing but the work of human hands." 
Jeremiah10:10 Only Yahweh is the true and living God, the King of all ages! At his fury the earth trembles, and nations crumble before his wrath." 
Jeremiah10:11 “Say to them: “ ‘The gods who did not create the heavens and the earth will be destroyed from the earth and from under the heavens.’ ” 
Jeremiah10:12 Yahweh made the earth by his glorious power and firmly established it by his great wisdom. By his skill he stretched out the sky. 
Jeremiah10:13 When he speaks, the heavenly ocean roars! He makes the clouds rise from the distant horizon. He launches his lightning in the midst of the rain and unleashes his stormy winds from heaven’s storehouses. Out of his treasuries of rain, lightning bolts, and stormy winds, he launches them forth." 
Jeremiah10:14 Everyone is ignorant, knowing nothing. Every craftsman is shamed by the idols they make since their idols are nothing but lifeless lies." 
Jeremiah10:15 What they make is worthless—nothing but a joke! When Yahweh comes to punish them, they will perish." 
Jeremiah10:16 You idols are nothing like Yahweh, the true Treasure of Jacob. For he created the universe and has chosen Israel to be his inheritance. Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, is his name." 
Jeremiah10:17 Jerusalem, you besieged city, pack up your belongings and get ready to leave the land." 
Jeremiah10:18 For Yahweh says: “Look! I am throwing you off the land, and I will bring you distress until you are captured.”" 
Jeremiah10:19 Woe is me —my brokenness! My wound is incurable. I once said: “Oh, I must bear this suffering,” and I assumed I could endure it." 
Jeremiah10:20 But my tent has been torn down, and all my cords are severed. I’ll never see my children again, for they have left me. There is no one left to stretch out my tent and no one who can hang my curtains." 
Jeremiah10:21 For the leaders of the nation are foolish, and they refuse Yahweh ’s guidance. Therefore, without insight, they have not prospered, and all their flocks are scattered." 
Jeremiah10:22 Look, there is news to report! There’s a roar and a rumble coming from the north, coming to make the cities of Judah a rubble and turn it into a den of jackals." 
Jeremiah10:23 Now, I know, O  Yahweh, that our destinies are not our own to choose, and it is not in our power to direct our own steps." 
Jeremiah10:24 Correct us, Yahweh, according to what is right, but go easy on us — don’t correct us in your anger, or there would be nothing left of us." 
Jeremiah10:25 Vent your anger and pour it out on all these nations around us. They’re the ones who do not worship you. See how they’ve attacked the people of Jacob, consuming the land and leaving it desolate." 
Jeremiah11:1 Yahweh spoke these words to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah11:2 “Hear the terms of this covenant and repeat them to the men of Judah and the people of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah11:3 Preach to them, ‘ Yahweh, the God of Israel, says to you: A curse will rest on whoever disobeys the terms of this covenant" 
Jeremiah11:4 that I made with your ancestors when I freed them from the fiery, iron furnace of their suffering in Egypt. Now, listen to my voice and do all that I commanded you, and you will be a beloved people to me, and I, I will be your God," 
Jeremiah11:5 so that I may keep the promise that I gave to your fathers to give them a beautiful land flowing with milk and honey, the land which is yours today.’ ” And I answered him, and said, “ Yes, Yahweh, amen.”" 
Jeremiah11:6 Then Yahweh said to me: “Preach this message in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: ‘Hear the words of this covenant and do them. 
Jeremiah11:7 For I warned your fathers repeatedly, when I freed them from the land of Egypt until now, to listen to my voice." 
Jeremiah11:8 But they refused to listen or change their ways. They lived in the stubbornness of their evil hearts, so I finally enforced the penalties of disobeying this covenant and its terms which I commanded them to keep.’ ”" 
Jeremiah11:9 And Yahweh said to me: “The people of Judah and Jerusalem conspire against me. 
Jeremiah11:10 They have turned back to commit again the same sins of their ancestors, who ignored my words. They, too, have chased after foreign gods to serve them. The people of Israel and the people of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their ancestors." 
Jeremiah11:11 “Therefore, I, Yahweh, say: Behold! I am bringing calamity upon them from which they will not be able to escape. And they will cry to me, but I will pay no attention." 
Jeremiah11:12 The cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry to the gods to whom they burn incense, but those false gods certainly will not be able to save them when calamity comes." 
Jeremiah11:13 The people of Judah worship as many gods as they have cities. They have as many altars to burn incense to that shameful one, Baal, as they have streets in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah11:14 “ Jeremiah, do not pray for these people nor cry out nor intercede on their behalf, for when trouble strikes and they cry out to me, I will pay no attention." 
Jeremiah11:15 “My dearly beloved ones have done so much evil that they no longer have a right to come into my temple. Can the flesh of their many sacrifices avert their doom? When I send calamity, they will have nothing to be joyful about." 
Jeremiah11:16 I, Yahweh, once called you a green olive tree, full of leaves and bearing beautiful fruit. But with the sound of a great roar, I will set fire and consume its branches." 
Jeremiah11:17 For I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, planted you and have decreed disaster against you because of the evil of the people of Israel and the people of Judah. You have provoked me to anger by burning incense to Baal.”" 
Jeremiah11:18 I knew about the evil some people were doing; it was Yahweh who revealed it to me. 
Jeremiah11:19 I was like a trusting lamb led to the slaughter. I had no idea they were speaking about me when they said, “Let’s destroy the tree while it’s in full bloom. We’ll kill him so that no one will remember him anymore.”" 
Jeremiah11:20 Then I prayed, “ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, you always judge fairly, and you test the most secret thoughts and desires of the heart. I have placed my cause before you, so let me live long enough to see you take revenge on them.”" 
Jeremiah11:21 Yahweh responded with a word for the men of Anathoth who wanted to take my life and who said to me, “You must no longer prophesy in the name of Yahweh, or we will certainly kill you.”" 
Jeremiah11:22 So Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, said, “Listen, I will punish them. The young men will die in battle, their sons and their daughters will die by food shortages," 
Jeremiah11:23 and none will survive. For I will bring disaster upon the men of Anathoth when I come to punish them.” 
Jeremiah12:1 Yahweh, whenever I complain to you, you always prove to be right. Nevertheless, hear my plea that I bring to you. Why is it that wicked people are successful? Why do scoundrels live so secure and serene?" 
Jeremiah12:2 You plant them like trees that take root; they spread their branches and bear fruit. They talk like they know you, but their affections are so far from you." 
Jeremiah12:3 But as for me, Yahweh, you know me fully. You see me, and you understand me. You have tested my feelings for you and found that I am fully devoted to you. Set them aside like sheep that are going to be killed; keep them ready for the time of their slaughter." 
Jeremiah12:4 How much longer will the land mourn? How much longer must the birds and animals perish? Even the grass of every field withers because of the wickedness of these people! For the people boast, “God doesn’t see what happens to us.”" 
Jeremiah12:5 “So, the footmen have beaten you, have they? How, then, will you run with the cavalry? If you stumble in the open country, how will you do in the thickets of the Jordan?" 
Jeremiah12:6 For even your brothers and relatives have betrayed you, and are in full pursuit of you. Don’t believe them when they speak to you as friends.”" 
Jeremiah12:7 “I have abandoned my house of Israel and deserted the people I call my own. I have surrendered the beloved of my soul over to her enemies. 
Jeremiah12:8 My own inheritance has turned against me like savage, roaring lions in the jungle; therefore, I will deal with her as though I hate her." 
Jeremiah12:9 Are hyenas and birds of prey all trying to devour the people I chose for myself? Are birds of prey circling around her? Go, gather all the wild beasts and bring them to devour her." 
Jeremiah12:10 Many rulers have destroyed my vineyard. They have trampled my property and have made my magnificent fields into a desolate desert. 
Jeremiah12:11 They have left it a wasteland— wasted, waterless, and empty before me. The whole land is laid waste, yet there is no one who seems to care." 
Jeremiah12:12 Many destroyers have marched over those barren hills. Yahweh ’s sword has devoured the people throughout the land; no one is safe. 
Jeremiah12:13 The people planted wheat but reaped nothing but weeds. They wearied themselves for nothing. They will be disappointed by their small harvest because of the burning anger of Yahweh.” 
Jeremiah12:14 Here is what Yahweh said to me concerning our evil neighboring nations who attacked the land he promised to my people Israel: “I will uproot those nations and throw them off their land. I will also uproot the people of Judah and rescue them from the midst of their enemies. 
Jeremiah12:15 Then after a period of exile, I will again show compassion to each nation and bring each one back to their homelands." 
Jeremiah12:16 They once taught my people to worship Baal, but if they acknowledge me as the only true God, and if they learn from my people how to worship me, then I will establish them and prosper them alongside my people." 
Jeremiah12:17 However, if they don’t listen to me, I will uproot them from their lands and completely destroy them. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah13:1 Here is the command Yahweh spoke to me: “Go and buy a linen loincloth and put it around your waist, but don’t wash it.”" 
Jeremiah13:2 So I obeyed Yahweh ’s command, and I bought the loincloth and wore it under my tunic." 
Jeremiah13:3 Then, Yahweh spoke to me a second time:" 
Jeremiah13:4 “Now, take the loincloth you bought and are wearing and go at once to Perath and cover it up there in a crevice of the rock.”" 
Jeremiah13:5 So, I obeyed Yahweh and went and buried it at Perath." 
Jeremiah13:6 Then, after a long time, Yahweh spoke to me again, saying, “Go at once to Perath and dig up the loincloth that I commanded you to bury there.”" 
Jeremiah13:7 So I went to Perath and dug up the loincloth from where I had buried it, and I found it ruined. It was worthless." 
Jeremiah13:8 Then Yahweh spoke these words to me: 
Jeremiah13:9 “Even so, like a soiled undergarment, I will ruin all the arrogant pride of Judah and Jerusalem, says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah13:10 These evil ones refuse to hear my words, they stubbornly follow the inclinations of their own hearts, and they follow other gods to serve and worship them. So then, they will all become like this worthless, rotten undergarment." 
Jeremiah13:11 For as the loincloth clings snugly to the loins of a man, so I brought close to me all the people of Israel and Judah, says Yahweh. I wanted them to cling to me as my people and bring honor to me and proclaim my glory. But they would not obey.”" 
Jeremiah13:12 “Speak this word to them: ‘Here is what Yahweh, the God of Israel says: Every wine jar should be filled with wine.’ And if they say to you, ‘Of course, everyone knows that wine jars should be filled with wine. Do you think we don’t know that?’" 
Jeremiah13:13 then answer them, ‘ Yahweh says: I am going to fill all the people of this land with a drunken stupor, including the kings of David’s descendants, the unfaithful priests, the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah13:14 And I will smash them one against the other, parents and children alike, says Yahweh. I will show no pity or compassion, and my mercy will not stop me from destroying them.’ ”" 
Jeremiah13:15 Hear this and listen well. Forsake your pride, for Yahweh has spoken." 
Jeremiah13:16 Give all glory to Yahweh your God before he brings darkness, and you stumble and fall on mountain paths in the dusk of twilight. Give him glory before he turns the light you’re longing for into a death shadow and deep gloom." 
Jeremiah13:17 If you will not listen, I will weep bitterly in secret from the depths of my soul because of your stubborn pride. My eyes gush with copious tears running down my face, because the flock of Yahweh is taken captive." 
Jeremiah13:18 Say to King Jehoiachin and his mother, “Come down from your high thrones and take a humble seat, for your glorious crown has tumbled off your heads.”" 
Jeremiah13:19 The cities in southern Judah are under siege, and no one can free them. All the people of Judah will be carried into exile, carried completely away." 
Jeremiah13:20 Lift up your eyes and see the Babylonians coming from the north. What will become of the cities of Judah? Like a beautiful flock of lambs, they were entrusted to your care." 
Jeremiah13:21 What will you say when those you courted as allies are appointed as your masters? You will be gripped with pain as a woman giving birth. 
Jeremiah13:22 And when you ask yourself, “Why are these things happening to me?”— it is because your sin was so enormous that your skirts are lifted up and your private parts exposed." 
Jeremiah13:23 Can the Ethiopian change the color of his skin, or the leopard remove his spots? Of course not. And neither can you change from being schooled to do evil to doing good." 
Jeremiah13:24 “This is why I will scatter you like dust driven by the desert wind. 
Jeremiah13:25 You have it coming, and I have precisely measured your punishment,” declares Yahweh, “because you have trusted in lies and forgotten me entirely." 
Jeremiah13:26 I, in turn, will lift your skirts over your face, and everyone will see your nakedness." 
Jeremiah13:27 Woe to you, Jerusalem! I have seen your adulteries, your lustful neighing, your shameless prostitution, your vile acts on the hills and in the fields. How long will you continue being unclean?”" 
Jeremiah14:1 This is what Yahweh spoke to me concerning the drought: 
Jeremiah14:2 “Judah is weeping, and her doors are dark with discouragement. Her people sink to the ground in mourning; their cries of lament rise from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah14:3 The elite send their servants for water, but when they come to the cisterns, they are bone dry. So, they return with their vessels empty. Humiliated, they cover their faces with shame." 
Jeremiah14:4 Since there has been no rain, the ground is dry and cracked at harvest season, and the farmers hang their heads in humiliation." 
Jeremiah14:5 Because there is no grass, even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn." 
Jeremiah14:6 The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights, Panting for air like jackals; their eyes are glazed over because there is no pasture.”" 
Jeremiah14:7 Our guilty sins cry out against us; in our rebellion, time and time again, we have sinned against you. Yahweh, do something to help us, for the sake of your honor." 
Jeremiah14:8 O Hope of Israel, Our only deliverer in time of trouble, why do you act like some stranger in the land, like an uninterested traveler who stops only for the night?" 
Jeremiah14:9 You are a mighty warrior! Why are you acting like a man overcome with weakness, like someone who can’t save us? Yet here you are, dwelling among us, Yahweh. You’ve attached your name to us. Don’t leave us now!" 
Jeremiah14:10 Then Yahweh spoke to me concerning these people: “They love to go astray, and they find such pleasure in their wandering. Therefore, I no longer find pleasure in them. Now I will remember all the evil they have done and punish their sins.”" 
Jeremiah14:11 And Yahweh said to me, “Don’t intercede on behalf of these people!" 
Jeremiah14:12 They can fast and pray all they want, but I still won’t listen to their cry. Neither will I accept their burnt offerings and meal offerings that they present to me. I will destroy them by war, food shortages, and plague.”" 
Jeremiah14:13 I said, “But Lord Yahweh! The prophets are prophesying: ‘You won’t experience war; neither will food shortages come upon you. God will protect you securely in this place.’ ”" 
Jeremiah14:14 Then Yahweh replied: “The prophets are using my name to lie to the people. I’ve not sent them or commissioned them. I’ve not spoken a word to them. They prophesy false promises and speak of an imaginary future—things they have made up in their minds. 
Jeremiah14:15 This is what I, Yahweh, am going to do to those lying prophets. They claim to speak in my name although I did not send them, and they say that there will be no war or food shortages in this land. Therefore, it is by war and food shortages that I will kill them." 
Jeremiah14:16 And those who foolishly believed these prophecies will meet the same end. They will all die from war and food shortages, along with their wives and sons and daughters. Their bodies will be thrown out into the streets of Jerusalem, with no one to bury them. For I will bring evil to them as they have been evil.”" 
Jeremiah14:17 “So, Jeremiah, speak your message of sorrow over them: “ ‘My eyes gush with tears day and night. I can’t stop weeping over all that my people have suffered. For my beloved people have suffered a great wound and are left grievously injured. They are as precious to me as a young daughter." 
Jeremiah14:18 If I go into the countryside— there they lie, slain by the sword. If I enter the city— there they lie, sick and starving. Both prophet and priest wander throughout the land, with no revelation to share.’ ”" 
Jeremiah14:19 Lord, have you completely rejected Judah? Does your soul really despise Zion? Why have you crushed us so that we can’t be healed? We longed for peace and happiness, but nothing good ever came. We longed for a time of healing, and we find a time of terror instead." 
Jeremiah14:20 Yahweh, we acknowledge our wickedness before you— we have sinned against you, just like our fathers did." 
Jeremiah14:21 For the sake of your great name, do not disown us; do not dishonor Jerusalem, that glorious place from which you rule. Don’t break your promise; remember your covenant with us." 
Jeremiah14:22 Can any of the false gods of foreign nations give us rain? Can the skies by themselves give showers? Only you can, O  Yahweh, our God! So, we place all our hope in you, for only you accomplish all these things." 
Jeremiah15:1 Then Yahweh said to me: “Even if Moses and Samuel stood before me to intercede for these people, I would not turn my heart back to them. Send them away from me and make them go." 
Jeremiah15:2 And if they ask you, ‘Where are we to go?’ answer them, ‘Here is what Yahweh says: “ ‘Those destined to die by the plague, go die by the plague. Those destined to die by the sword, go die by the sword. Those destined to die by food shortages, go die by famine. Those destined for captivity, go into captivity.’ ”" 
Jeremiah15:3 For Yahweh says, “I will send them four destroyers—the sword to slay, the dogs to drag away, the wild animals to devour, and the birds of prey to consume them." 
Jeremiah15:4 I will make them a horrible sight that will shock the entire world because of the wicked things King Manasseh son of Hezekiah of Judah did in Jerusalem.” 
Jeremiah15:5 Yahweh says, “Who will feel sorry for you, people of Jerusalem? Who will mourn for you? Who will even bother to ask about your welfare?" 
Jeremiah15:6 I, Yahweh, say to you: You left me, turned your back on me, and walked out. So, I have stretched out my hand to punish you. I am weary of feeling sorry for you." 
Jeremiah15:7 I threw you to the wind like straw, scattering you throughout the cities of the earth. I made my people childless and killed them, since they would not repent from their ways." 
Jeremiah15:8 Their widows became more numerous than the sands of the seas. In broad daylight, I have brought against them an unexpected destroyer to kill young men and mothers alike. Suddenly, I brought upon them terror and panic." 
Jeremiah15:9 She who was honored to have seven children grows faint; robbed of her children, she wasted away. Her sun has set while it is still day. She is shamed and disgraced. Any who are left alive, I will hand them over to the sword of their enemies,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah15:10 My mother, how terrible that you ever bore me— a man doomed to conflict and strife with everyone against me! I have never cheated anyone, yet everyone curses me." 
Jeremiah15:11 Yahweh answered me: “I will surely deliver you for a good reason. Have I not stood beside you in times of difficulty and in times of distress against the enemy? 
Jeremiah15:12 “Will a man break the hardest iron or bronze? 
Jeremiah15:13 I will turn over your wealth and your treasures as spoil for your enemies. This is the price you will pay because of all the sins you’ve committed throughout the land. 
Jeremiah15:14 And I will make you serve your enemies in a foreign land, for my anger has caught fire, and I am furious against you.”" 
Jeremiah15:15 Then I said, “ Yahweh, you understand everything perfectly. Remember me and act on my behalf. Pay back all those who persecute me. Do not be so patient with my enemies; take revenge on them before they kill me. It is for your sake that I suffer insult after insult." 
Jeremiah15:16 When you speak to me, I devour every word. Your word brings me such boundless joy. The endless delight of my heart is in knowing that your beautiful name is attached to me, O  Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah15:17 I haven’t joined the crowd at their merry celebrations just to have a good time. I’ve kept to myself because your strong hand upon my life sets me apart. And your anger over what they have done fills me. 
Jeremiah15:18 Why must my pain be endless? Why are my wounds incurable? Why won’t they heal? You’ve been to me like a deceitful spring that stops flowing, like a brook that goes dry.”" 
Jeremiah15:19 Here is what Yahweh said to me: “If you give up your hopeless tone of despair and return to me, I will restore you as my spokesman, and you will stand before me and enjoy my favor. If you separate the precious from the worthless, you will be my mouthpiece. They will turn to you, but you are not to turn to them." 
Jeremiah15:20 They will fight and attack you, but I will make you as strong and secure as a fortified wall of bronze. They will not conquer you, for I already have! I am with you to deliver and rescue you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah15:21 “I will save you from the power of the wicked and rescue you from the clutches of ruthless men.” 
Jeremiah16:1 Yahweh spoke to me again and said: 
Jeremiah16:2 “You are not to marry or have children in this land. 
Jeremiah16:3 For this is what I, Yahweh, have to say concerning any children that may be born in this place and concerning their mothers and fathers in this land:" 
Jeremiah16:4 They will die of deadly diseases. No one will mourn for them or bury them; their bodies will lie like dung on the ground. They will be consumed by the sword and by food shortages, and the birds and beasts will feast on their corpses.”" 
Jeremiah16:5 For Yahweh says: “You are not to enter a house of mourning or go there to lament and to console them. For I have lifted my favor off that people,” declares Yahweh. “I will no longer show them my kindness and compassion." 
Jeremiah16:6 The least and the greatest alike will die in this land. They will not be buried. No one will mourn for them, cut themselves, or shave their heads to show their grief." 
Jeremiah16:7 No one is to offer food to people in mourning, to comfort them in their loss. Even if it is their fathers or mothers who have died, do not give them a cup of consolation." 
Jeremiah16:8 Nor are you to go into a house where people are feasting, to enjoy their festivities." 
Jeremiah16:9 For here is what Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, the God of Israel, says: I will silence in this land the joyful shout of bride and bridegroom, the sounds of gladness and laughter. It will happen in your lifetime, before your very eyes." 
Jeremiah16:10 “And when you prophesy all these words to that people, and they ask you, ‘Why has Yahweh decreed all this great evil against us? What is the wrong and the sin that we have committed against Yahweh our God?’" 
Jeremiah16:11 Answer them, ‘Because your ancestors walked away from me, declares Yahweh, and followed other gods and served and worshiped them. They abandoned me and failed to keep my instruction." 
Jeremiah16:12 Yet you have acted even worse than your ancestors. Each of you follow the stubborn desires of your evil hearts and refuse to listen to me. 
Jeremiah16:13 Therefore, I will fling you out of this land to a land that neither you nor your fathers have known. And there you will serve other gods, day and night to your heart’s content, for I will have no pity for you.’ ”" 
Jeremiah16:14 “Listen, a time is coming,” declares Yahweh, “when it will no more be said, ‘As surely as Yahweh lives, who brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt,’" 
Jeremiah16:15 but rather, ‘As surely as Yahweh lives, who brought the Israelites back from the land of the north and from all the lands to which he had banished them.’ For I will restore them to their homeland, which I gave to their ancestors." 
Jeremiah16:16 “Behold, I will summon many fishermen,” declares Yahweh, “and they will fish them out. After that, I will summon many hunters, and they will hunt them out of every mountain and hill and chase them out of their hiding places in the rocks." 
Jeremiah16:17 For I see everything they do. They are not hidden from my presence, nor does their guilt escape my gaze." 
Jeremiah16:18 First, I will pay them back in full— even double for their evil and their sins. They have defiled my land and made it unfit for me because of their dead, detestable idols and have filled the land I have chosen for my own with their abominations.”" 
Jeremiah16:19 Yahweh, you are my strength and my stronghold, my sanctuary in a time of trouble. Nations will stream toward you from the ends of the earth and say: “The gods of our ancestors are nothing but frauds, worthless idols that could do nothing for them." 
Jeremiah16:20 Can anyone make his own gods? If so, how could they be real gods?”" 
Jeremiah16:21 Yahweh says, “Surely, I will teach these people. Once and for all, I will cause them to experience my powerful hand and my might, and they will learn that my name is Yahweh!”" 
Jeremiah17:1 Yahweh says: “ People of Judah, your sins are engraved indelibly on the stone tablets of your hearts and on the horns of your altars, engraved with an iron pen and a chisel with a diamond point." 
Jeremiah17:2 Your people have set up pagan altars to the goddess Asherah everywhere in your land—under large trees, on hills" 
Jeremiah17:3 and mountains, and in open fields. So, as punishment for all your sins, I will take your treasures—everything you own, including your altars —and give them all to your enemies." 
Jeremiah17:4 You will forfeit, by your own deeds, the wonderful inheritance I have given you to possess. I will make you serve your enemies in a foreign land you have never known, for you have kindled the flame of my anger, which will burn forever.”" 
Jeremiah17:5 Yahweh said to me: “Even a strong person is cursed when his confidence rests in his own strength. To place your confidence in the strength of man means that you are turning your heart away from me. 
Jeremiah17:6 That person is like a desert tumbleweed in a dry and dusty desert, in a rocky wilderness without inhabitant. Even when goodness is all around him, he won’t experience it." 
Jeremiah17:7 “I will bless with happiness the one who trusts in me, the one who trusts in me alone." 
Jeremiah17:8 He is like a tree planted on the riverbank, extending its roots into streams of water. It does not fear when scorching heat comes, for its leaves remain fresh and never fading even in a year of drought. It has no anxieties but continues to bear luscious fruit.”" 
Jeremiah17:9 There is nothing more deceitful than the heart of man; who can understand it? Man’s heart is sick, in need of healing." 
Jeremiah17:10 “I, Yahweh, probe the heart, and I thoroughly test the inner being to give to all people what they deserve according to their ways and based on their deeds.”" 
Jeremiah17:11 Go ahead and cheat others dishonestly, but by mid-life, everything you’ve gained will fly away, like birds hatched from stolen eggs. You will be proven a fool in the end." 
Jeremiah17:12 Our sacred sanctuary is a throne radiating the glory of Yahweh. 
Jeremiah17:13 Yahweh, you are the only hope of Israel! All who forsake you will be covered with shame. Those who turn away from you will be written in the dirt. To forsake you, Yahweh, is to forsake the fountain of living waters." 
Jeremiah17:14 Yahweh, you alone are my praise. Heal me, and I will be perfectly healed; save me, and I will be completely saved." 
Jeremiah17:15 Listen to what the people keep saying to me: “Where is the word of Yahweh? Let it come to pass!” 
Jeremiah17:16 But I have not stopped running after you and being a true shepherd. Nor have I secretly longed for the day of disaster. You know every word my lips have spoken, for they were spoken in your presence." 
Jeremiah17:17 Do not cause me disappointment. You are my safe place in a day of calamity. 
Jeremiah17:18 Let those who persecute me be ashamed, and don’t let me be disgraced; let them be the ones who are disheartened and not me. Bring on them the day of disaster, and shatter them with double destruction." 
Jeremiah17:19 Yahweh said to me: “Go and stand in the public gate of Jerusalem by which the kings of Judah enter and leave, and then go to all the gates of Jerusalem" 
Jeremiah17:20 and preach to the people: ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, you kings and people of Judah, and all who live in Jerusalem who enter by these gates!" 
Jeremiah17:21 “ ‘ Yahweh declares: If you value your lives, stop carrying any loads on the Sabbath day, bringing them through the gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:22 Nor shall you carry any loads out of your houses on the Sabbath day or do any work; rather, you must set apart that day to honor me as I commanded your ancestors." 
Jeremiah17:23 (Yet they would not listen or obey; they stubbornly refused and would not obey or accept instruction.) 
Jeremiah17:24 If you listen to me, declares Yahweh, and do not bring in any load through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day but observe the Sabbath day as set apart for me and do no work that day," 
Jeremiah17:25 then kings of David’s lineage will pass through the city’s gates. The kings and their officials will be riding in chariots or riding horses and will be accompanied by the people of Judah and the people of Jerusalem. There will always be people living here. 
Jeremiah17:26 Then people will come from the towns of Judah and from the villages around Jerusalem and from the land of Benjamin, from the lowlands west of Jerusalem, from the hill country, and from the southern desert of Judah, bringing burnt offerings and sacrifices, grain offerings and frankincense, and offerings of thanksgiving to Yahweh ’s house." 
Jeremiah17:27 But if you do not listen to me, if you treat the Sabbath as any other day on which you carry loads through the gates of Jerusalem, then I will set its gates on fire, and that fire will consume even the palaces of Jerusalem, and no one will be able to extinguish it!’ ”" 
Jeremiah18:1 Here is the word Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah: 
Jeremiah18:2 “Arise and go to the potter’s workshop, and I will speak to you there.”" 
Jeremiah18:3 So I went to the potter’s workshop, and there was the potter spinning his wheel." 
Jeremiah18:4 And whenever a piece of pottery turned out flawed, he reworked it into another vessel, as seemed good to the potter." 
Jeremiah18:5 Then Yahweh began to speak to me. 
Jeremiah18:6 “Can I not do with the people of Israel just as the potter has done with the clay?” declares Yahweh. “Listen, people of Israel. You are clay that I shape in my hands like the clay in the potter’s hands." 
Jeremiah18:7 If I speak of uprooting, breaking down, or destroying a nation or a kingdom," 
Jeremiah18:8 and that nation turns back from its wicked ways, then I will turn back from the disaster that I planned against it." 
Jeremiah18:9 And at another time, if I speak of planting or building a nation or a kingdom," 
Jeremiah18:10 but that nation does evil in my eyes and does not listen to my voice, then I will relent concerning the good that I planned to show it." 
Jeremiah18:11 “So now, go say to the people of Judah and Jerusalem, ‘ Yahweh says: Listen, I am a potter shaping punishment for you and working on a plan against you. Turn back, each person, from the evil way you live and the evil things you do!’" 
Jeremiah18:12 “But they will answer: ‘It’s too late! We’ll live as we choose and be just as stubborn and evil as we want to be.’ ” 
Jeremiah18:13 Therefore Yahweh says: “Ask the people of every nation and find out if they have ever heard of such a horrible sin as what you, virgin Israel, have done to betray me." 
Jeremiah18:14 Does the snow on Lebanon’s mountains ever melt away? Do the cold mountain streams ever run dry? 
Jeremiah18:15 But my people have forgotten me and burn incense to gods who are nothing, who make my people stumble in their ways. They no longer follow the ways of blessing they knew before but have followed paths that lead them nowhere." 
Jeremiah18:16 Their homeland is a wasteland, and everyone who passes by is horrified and trembles with fear." 
Jeremiah18:17 Like a strong wind from the east, I will blow them away before their enemies. Since they have turned their back on me, I will turn my back on them and refuse to help them in their day of trouble.”" 
Jeremiah18:18 Then the people said: “Come on, let’s plan a scheme against Jeremiah! There are always priests and wise ones who can give us instruction. We will still have prophets to give us Yahweh ’s message. Come on, let’s attack his reputation and drum up phony charges against him. And let’s pay no attention to anything he says.”" 
Jeremiah18:19 So I prayed, “ Yahweh, hear my cry! Can’t you hear the voice of my adversaries?" 
Jeremiah18:20 Good should not be repaid with evil, but look! They are digging a pit for me. Remember how I made intercession for them, pleading in your presence to turn away your wrath from them?" 
Jeremiah18:21 Therefore, may their children experience food shortages, and let them be killed by the sword. May death and warfare take away the men and youths, leaving the women as childless widows." 
Jeremiah18:22 May cries be heard from their homes as you suddenly bring raiders upon them without warning. For they’ve dug a pit to catch me and hidden snares for my feet. 
Jeremiah18:23 Yet, you know, Yahweh, all their plots to kill me. Do not pardon their sin or blot out their guilt! Let them stumble before you. Deal with them severely in the time of your anger.”" 
Jeremiah19:1 Yahweh said to me, “Go to the pottery shop and buy a clay jar. Then take along some of the city officials and leading priests" 
Jeremiah19:2 and go to the Hinnom Valley, just outside the Potsherd Gate. Speak to the people the words I give you." 
Jeremiah19:3 Say to them, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh, you kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem! Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, the God of Israel, says to you: I am going to bring such a great disaster upon this place that the ears of all who hear about it will tingle with astonishment." 
Jeremiah19:4 For they, their ancestors, and the kings of Judah have defiled this place and forsaken me. They have sacrificed here to strange gods, whom they never knew, and have filled this place with the blood of innocent people." 
Jeremiah19:5 They have built altars to Baal and sacrificed their children to the fire as burnt offerings to Baal. This is not something I commanded them to do, nor did it ever enter my mind." 
Jeremiah19:6 Because they have done all this, behold, the time is coming when this place will no longer be called Topheth or the Hinnom Valley, but people will call it Slaughter Valley, declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah19:7 “ ‘And I will also frustrate the plans of Judah and Jerusalem in this place. I will cause their bloodthirsty enemies to triumph over them, and I will give their dead bodies as food to the beasts of the field and birds of the sky." 
Jeremiah19:8 I will make this once revered city an object of horror and astonishment; everyone who passes by it will be appalled and will make insulting remarks because of all its wounds! 
Jeremiah19:9 I will cause their bloodthirsty enemies to lay siege to their city and cause them great suffering. They will become so desperate that they will become cannibals, eating their neighbors and even their own children.’" 
Jeremiah19:10 “Then, smash the clay jar in the sight of the men who go with you" 
Jeremiah19:11 and say to them: ‘ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says to you: See this smashed clay jar? That is what I will do to you. I will smash these people and this city as one smashes a potter’s vessel, never to be repaired. You will bury your dead here in Topheth, this unclean place; so many of you will die that there won’t be enough room to bury them." 
Jeremiah19:12 That is what I will do to this city and its inhabitants, declares Yahweh. I will make this sanctuary city into a cemetery like Topheth." 
Jeremiah19:13 Both the houses of the kings of Judah and the houses of Jerusalem will be defiled like the place of Topheth—all the houses upon whose roofs offerings have been made to the whole host of heaven and drink offerings have been poured out to false gods.’ ” 
Jeremiah19:14 When Jeremiah returned from Topheth, where Yahweh had sent him to prophesy, he stood in the court of Yahweh ’s temple and said to all the people:" 
Jeremiah19:15 “ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, the God of Israel, says to you: ‘I am going to bring upon this city and all its nearby villages every disaster that I have decreed against them because they have stubbornly hardened their hearts and refused to listen to my words.’ ”" 
Jeremiah20:1 Pashhur son of Immer was a priest and the temple overseer. When he heard what Jeremiah had prophesied, he became angry." 
Jeremiah20:2 So he arrested Jeremiah, beat him, and put him in stocks at the upper Benjamin Gate of Yahweh ’s temple." 
Jeremiah20:3 The next morning, when Pashhur released Jeremiah from the stocks, Jeremiah said to him, “Pashhur, Yahweh has given you a new name—Terror Everywhere!" 
Jeremiah20:4 For Yahweh says to you: ‘I am making you a terror to yourself and to all your friends, who will be killed in battle while you look on. I will give all Judah into the hands of the king of Babylon. He will take them captive to Babylon or kill them with the sword." 
Jeremiah20:5 I will give all the wealth of this city—her resources, her prized possessions, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah—into the hands of their enemies, who will seize all the plunder and carry it off to Babylon." 
Jeremiah20:6 You, Pashhur, and all your household will go into captivity as prisoners to Babylon. You will die there and be buried there, you and all your gullible friends to whom you have prophesied falsely.’ ”" 
Jeremiah20:7 Yahweh, you pushed me into being a prophet, and I let you do it. You overpowered me, and now I am overcome. I have become nothing but a joke all day long, with everyone mocking me." 
Jeremiah20:8 Whenever I prophesy, you have me speak, “Violence and destruction!” I am ridiculed every time I proclaim your word. I get nothing but trouble and insults all day long." 
Jeremiah20:9 When I tell myself, “I’m not going to speak his message ever again or prophesy any more in his name,” then all at once you are within me like a burning, consuming fire deep in my bones. I try my best to hold your word inside, but I can’t hold it back any longer!" 
Jeremiah20:10 For I heard them whispering behind my back: “Terror everywhere! That’s all he prophesies. ” All my close friends watch for me to fall. “Let’s turn him in to the authorities,” they say. “Perhaps we can set a trap for him. Finally, we will prevail over him and take our revenge on him.”" 
Jeremiah20:11 But Yahweh is a mighty, fearless warrior standing at my side. My persecutors are the ones who will fall down and fail; disgraced by their failure, they will not succeed. Their shame will stick to them forever." 
Jeremiah20:12 O  Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, you test the righteous. You probe my deepest thoughts and motives. I have committed my cause to you, so let me watch as you take revenge on my enemies." 
Jeremiah20:13 Sing! Sing praises to Yahweh, for he rescues the soul of the needy from the power of the wicked." 
Jeremiah20:14 Cursed be the day on which I was born! The day when my mother bore me, may that day never be blessed!" 
Jeremiah20:15 Put a curse on the man who made my father glad by saying, “Good news—it’s a boy! You have a son.”" 
Jeremiah20:16 Let that man be like the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah that Yahweh destroyed without pity. Let him hear shouts of alarm in the morning and battle cries at noon. 
Jeremiah20:17 For he did not kill me before I came from the womb, making my pregnant mother’s womb my grave forever." 
Jeremiah20:18 Why was I even born? Was it just to experience toil and sorrow and spend my days in shame? 
Jeremiah21:1 Judah’s King Zedekiah sent for Pashhur son of Malchiah and for a priest named Zephaniah son of Maaseiah, and he told them, “Tell Jeremiah to intercede for us to Yahweh because Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, is coming to war against us. Perhaps Yahweh will perform an extraordinary miracle for us, as he has done in times past, and cause the king of Babylon to withdraw from us.” Yahweh spoke through Jeremiah to say to them, “Tell King Zedekiah," 
Jeremiah21:1 Judah’s King Zedekiah sent for Pashhur son of Malchiah and for a priest named Zephaniah son of Maaseiah, and he told them, “Tell Jeremiah to intercede for us to Yahweh because Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, is coming to war against us. Perhaps Yahweh will perform an extraordinary miracle for us, as he has done in times past, and cause the king of Babylon to withdraw from us.” Yahweh spoke through Jeremiah to say to them, “Tell King Zedekiah," 
Jeremiah21:2  
Jeremiah21:3  
Jeremiah21:4 ‘Here is what Yahweh, the God of Israel says to King Zedekiah: Behold! I am going to take the weapons your troops are using to fight the Babylonians who are outside the city, and I will gather them together there." 
Jeremiah21:5 And I myself will fight against you with a strong arm and with all my might. Yes, I will fight against you, fueled by my furious anger and by my great wrath!" 
Jeremiah21:6 And I will strike down the inhabitants of this city—both people and animals, and they will die from a great plague." 
Jeremiah21:7 “ ‘And after this, declares Yahweh, I will hand over Judah’s king, Zedekiah, his officials, and everyone else in the city who survives the disease, war, and food shortages, to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon and their enemies. He will slaughter them with the sword and show no mercy, pity, or compassion.’ ”" 
Jeremiah21:8 “Furthermore, speak to the people the words of Yahweh: ‘Behold! I will set before you the way that leads to life and the way that leads to death." 
Jeremiah21:9 Whoever remains in this city will die by the sword and by food shortages and by pestilence, but whoever goes out and surrenders to the Chaldeans who are besieging you will live, and they will escape with their lives." 
Jeremiah21:10 “ ‘For I am determined to bring calamity to this city, not good, declares Yahweh. I will turn the city over to the king of Babylon, and he will burn it to the ground.’ ”" 
Jeremiah21:11 Yahweh spoke through Jeremiah to the household of the king: “Hear the word of Yahweh," 
Jeremiah21:12 royal family of David. Here is what Yahweh says to you: Each new day, make sure that justice is done and rescue those who have been robbed from the power of their oppressor, or my wrath will go forth like an unquenchable fire on account of their evil deeds." 
Jeremiah21:13 Yahweh declares: I will fight against you, Jerusalem, you who are enthroned above the valley, a rock over the plain. Those who say, ‘Who would dare come here and attack us and penetrate the defenses of our city?’" 
Jeremiah21:14 I will punish you as your evil deeds deserve, declares Yahweh. And I will kindle a fire in your forest, and it will consume everything around you.”" 
Jeremiah22:1 Yahweh spoke these words to Jeremiah: “Go to the palace of the king of Judah and give him my word. 
Jeremiah22:2 Say: ‘Listen to the word of Yahweh, king of Judah, who occupies the throne of David, your officials, and people who enter these gates!" 
Jeremiah22:3 Yahweh says to you: Be concerned for justice and righteousness. Rescue the one who is robbed from his oppressor. Do not exploit or mistreat the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow. Stop the violence and do not shed the blood of the innocent in this place." 
Jeremiah22:4 For if you fulfill this command, then there will be kings of David’s lineage to pass through the city’s gates. The kings and their officials will be riding in chariots or riding horses and will be accompanied by the people." 
Jeremiah22:5 But I swear by myself as a witness, if you do not obey these commands, then this palace shall become a ruin, declares Yahweh!’ ”" 
Jeremiah22:6 Yes, listen to what Yahweh thinks about Judah’s royal palace: “You are as glorious as Gilead to me, as beautiful as the summit of Lebanon; but I swear that I will make you as empty as a desert— like a ghost town." 
Jeremiah22:7 I will appoint a wrecking crew to destroy you, each member with his weapons and tools. They will cut down your pillars of choice cedar and set them on fire." 
Jeremiah22:8 “When many foreigners pass by this city and each one asks another, ‘Why did Yahweh do this to such a great city?’" 
Jeremiah22:9 the reply will be, ‘Because they forsook the covenant with Yahweh their God and worshiped and served other gods.’ ”" 
Jeremiah22:10 Do not weep for King Josiah, who died, and do not mourn for him; rather, weep bitterly for King Jehoahaz, who is carried away as a captive, for he will never return to see the land of his birth." 
Jeremiah22:11 For this is what Yahweh has said concerning Shallum son of King Josiah of Judah, who succeeded his father Josiah as king but was led away from here: “He will never return." 
Jeremiah22:12 He will die in the land of his exile, and he will never see his homeland again.”" 
Jeremiah22:13 “Doomed is the one who builds his house with unrighteousness, and the upper chambers of his palace with injustice, who compels his fellow man to work for nothing and pays him no wages for his hard labor." 
Jeremiah22:14 Doomed is the one who says, ‘I’ll build a vast palace for myself with spacious upper chambers and large windows. I’ll panel it with cedar and paint it red.’" 
Jeremiah22:15 Does it make you a king just because you build a finer house of cedar than others? Your father lived a satisfying life, yet he dispensed justice and righteousness— and because of this, all went well with him." 
Jeremiah22:16 He upheld the rights of the poor and needy— and look how well he did. Whoever lives this way shows that he knows me,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah22:17 “But your eyes and heart are only interested in what brings you unjust profit, in violently oppressing your people even if it means shedding innocent blood.”" 
Jeremiah22:18 Therefore, Yahweh says to you, Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah: “No one will cry at your funeral or say, ‘How terrible! How sad!’ No one will weep for you or say, ‘How sad! Why did his majesty have to die?’" 
Jeremiah22:19 He will have a donkey’s burial. He will be dragged outside the gates of Jerusalem and left on the ground to rot.” 
Jeremiah22:20 “Go up to the peaks of Lebanon, you people of Jerusalem, and cry out. Raise your voice in the heights of Bashan, cry out from the mountains of Moab, for all your lovers, the nations you trusted in, are crushed." 
Jeremiah22:21 I warned you in your prosperous times, but you said, ‘I don’t want to hear it.’ You have treated me like that ever since your youth, refusing to listen to me." 
Jeremiah22:22 Now you will be disgraced and humiliated because of all your evil. Your leaders will be swept away like dust in the wind, and your lovers, the nations you trusted in, will be captured and dragged into captivity." 
Jeremiah22:23 You, O  king, although you feel safely nested there in your palace of cedar pillars from Lebanon, you will be in pain and will groan like a woman giving birth!”" 
Jeremiah22:24 Yahweh declares, “As surely as I am the living God, listen, O King Jehoiachin son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah. Even if you were the royal signet ring I wear on my right hand, I would still pull you from my finger." 
Jeremiah22:25 I will hand you over to the power of those who seek your life, into the hands of those you dread—King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon and the Babylonians." 
Jeremiah22:26 I will hurl you and the mother who bore you into a foreign land, where neither of you were born and where both of you will die." 
Jeremiah22:27 Your people will be in exile and will not return to the land to which they yearn to come back. 
Jeremiah22:28 “Is this man Coniah now thrown away like a worthless, broken pot that no one wants? Why are he and his offspring hurled out and taken away to a land they knew not?" 
Jeremiah22:29 Land of Judah! My land! My land! Hear the word of Yahweh!” 
Jeremiah22:30 Yahweh decrees: “List this man as ‘Childless,’ one who will never succeed in his lifetime, for none of his offspring will be accepted to sit on the throne of David and rule in Judah again.”" 
Jeremiah23:1 Yahweh declares, “Doomed are the shepherds who scatter the sheep of my pasture and cause them to be destroyed!" 
Jeremiah23:2 Therefore, this is what I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, say to the shepherds of my people: You have scattered my flock, driven them away, and failed to take care of them. So, I will be sure to take care of you and deal with you for your evil,” Yahweh declares." 
Jeremiah23:3 “But I will gather the remnant of my flock from all the countries where I have scattered them and will bring them back to their folds where they will thrive and increase in number.” 
Jeremiah23:4 Yahweh declares, “I will raise up faithful shepherds to shepherd them; ones who will really care for them. There will be no more fear or terror for them anymore, and not one will be missing." 
Jeremiah23:5 “Listen to me! I, the Lord, promise you that a time is coming when I will raise up a righteous Branch, who will sprout from David’s lineage. He will rule as their King, and his reign will prosper with wisdom and understanding. He will succeed in bringing justice and righteousness to all." 
Jeremiah23:6 Under his rule, Judah and Israel will be kept safe and secure. He will be known by this name: Yahweh, Our Righteousness!" 
Jeremiah23:7 “So I, Yahweh, declare that a day is coming when people will no longer say, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought the Israelites out of Egypt,’" 
Jeremiah23:8 but rather, ‘As surely as Yahweh lives, who brought the Israelites back from the land of the north and from all the lands to which he had banished them.’ Then they will dwell in their own land.”" 
Jeremiah23:9 Concerning the prophets: my heart is broken within me, and all my bones tremble. I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome with wine. I’m overcome by the wine of Yahweh, and his holy words spoken to me." 
Jeremiah23:10 The land is full of people unfaithful to him; they lead wicked lives and misuse their power. Because of a curse, the land is in mourning, and the pastures of the wilderness have dried up." 
Jeremiah23:11 Yahweh declares, “Even the prophets and priests are ungodly! I have seen their wickedness in my own temple." 
Jeremiah23:12 So the paths they take will be dark and slippery. Certainly, they will stumble in the dark and fall headlong.” Yahweh declares, “I will bring disaster on them when the time for punishment comes." 
Jeremiah23:13 The prophets of Samaria were disgusting to me! They prophesied in the name of Baal and led my people Israel astray. 
Jeremiah23:14 And I have seen the prophets of Jerusalem do horrible acts: adultery, persistent lying, and promoting the cause of the wicked, so that no one renounces his evil ways. To me, they are all depraved like Sodom, and the people of Jerusalem are like Gomorrah." 
Jeremiah23:15 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say this about the prophets: The prophets of Jerusalem have spewed their spiritual poison throughout the land. Therefore, I will make them drink poisoned water and feed them bitter food." 
Jeremiah23:16 So I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say: Ignore what those prophets prophesy to you; they are deluding you and imagining visions of their own, and not what comes from the mouth of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:17 “They keep saying to those who despise me, ‘ Yahweh has spoken: You will have peace!’ And to those who follow their own stubborn ways, they prophesy, ‘No disaster will touch you.’" 
Jeremiah23:18 “Yet which of these prophets ever stood in Yahweh ’s council to hear and receive his word? Who has truly heard and paid attention to his message? 
Jeremiah23:19 Behold, Yahweh ’s anger is like the fury of a fearsome whirlwind about to hit the wicked head-on with gale-force winds." 
Jeremiah23:20 Yahweh ’s anger will not relent until he has perfectly carried out what he has in mind. In the latter days, you will clearly understand this.”" 
Jeremiah23:21 Yahweh says: “I did not send these so-called prophets, yet they ran eagerly to prophesy their message. I did not speak to them, yet they claimed to prophesy in my name." 
Jeremiah23:22 Had they been present in my divine council and heard my words, they would have proclaimed my words to my people and caused them to turn from their evil ways and their wicked deeds." 
Jeremiah23:23 “Am I just a God nearby,” demands Yahweh, “and not a God who is both near and far away?" 
Jeremiah23:24 Can anyone hide somewhere in secret where I do not see him?” declares Yahweh. “Is there anywhere in heaven or on earth where I am not present?” declares Yahweh. 
Jeremiah23:25 “I have heard the lies of those prophets who claim to have received a message from me. ‘I dreamed a dream,’ they say, ‘I dreamed a dream!’" 
Jeremiah23:26 How long must this go on? These prophets of falsehood preach illusions from their own minds. 
Jeremiah23:27 Their dreams, by which one tries to outdo the other, make my people forget me just as their ancestors forgot me in favor of Baal." 
Jeremiah23:28 Let the prophet who has a dream tell the dream, but let the one who has my word speak my word faithfully. For what do straw and grain have in common?” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:29 “Is not my word like a mighty fire? Is it not like a powerful hammer shattering a rock in pieces?” declares Yahweh. 
Jeremiah23:30 “So then I, Yahweh, affirm that I am against the prophets who steal prophetic words from someone else and yet affirm that they came from me!" 
Jeremiah23:31 I am against the lying prophets who make up their prophecies and say, ‘Thus says the Lord!’" 
Jeremiah23:32 I am against the prophets who boast in their lies,” declares Yahweh. “They lead my people astray by their lying prophecies, dreams, and exaggerations. I affirm that I never sent them or commissioned them; they are no good at all for these people,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah23:33 “ Jeremiah, when these people, a prophet, or a priest asks you, ‘What is the burden of Yahweh ’s heart?’ you must answer, ‘ Yahweh declares, “ You are my burden, and I will cast you aside!” ’" 
Jeremiah23:34 “If any of you flippantly says, ‘This is Yahweh ’s message,’ I will punish you and your household, even if you are a prophet or a priest." 
Jeremiah23:35 Instead, you must ask each other, ‘What has Yahweh said?’ or ‘What is Yahweh ’s answer?’" 
Jeremiah23:36 But stop using the expression ‘This is Yahweh ’s message,’ for their message is nothing more than their own opinion. Otherwise, you distort the words of Yahweh our God, the living God, the Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah23:37 “This is the way to speak to a prophet: ‘What has Yahweh said?’ or ‘What answer has Yahweh given you?’ 
Jeremiah23:38 But if you disobey me and say, ‘The message of Yahweh,’ though I spoke to you and told you not to say, ‘The message of Yahweh,’" 
Jeremiah23:39 then believe me, I will pick you up and fling you from my presence. And I will also do the same thing to the city I gave to you and your ancestors." 
Jeremiah23:40 I will bring down everlasting shame on you, everlasting disgrace that will never be forgotten.”" 
Jeremiah24:1 Yahweh opened my eyes to see a supernatural vision. It happened after King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon had taken into captivity Jehoiakim’s son King Jeconiah, his officials, and all artisans and skilled workers and brought them to Babylon. In this vision, I saw two baskets of figs placed in front of Yahweh ’s temple." 
Jeremiah24:2 One basket was full of excellent figs that ripened early, and the other was full of rotten figs that were not fit to eat." 
Jeremiah24:3 “Jeremiah,” Yahweh asked, “what do you see?” “Figs,” I said. “Some are very good, but the others are very bad, too rotten to eat.”" 
Jeremiah24:4 Then Yahweh replied," 
Jeremiah24:5 “This is what I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, say to you: ‘The good figs are the people of Judah whom I sent away in exile to Babylon." 
Jeremiah24:6 My eyes will compassionately watch over them for their good, to bring them back to this land, to build them up and not to tear them down, to plant them and not to uproot them." 
Jeremiah24:7 I will give them a willing heart to know that I am Yahweh. They will be my beloved people, and I will be their loving God, for they will return to me with every passion of their heart." 
Jeremiah24:8 “ ‘As for the bad figs that were too rotten to eat, they represent King Zedekiah of Judah, his officials, and all the others left in Jerusalem who were not taken away to Babylon, whether they stayed here in Judah or went to live in Egypt." 
Jeremiah24:9 I will punish them with such a disaster that everyone on earth will tremble in horror when they hear about it. I will force the people of Judah to go to foreign countries, where they will be an object of scorn, cursing, and insult." 
Jeremiah24:10 I will send the sword, food shortages, and plague against them until they have vanished from the land I gave to them and their ancestors.’ ”" 
Jeremiah25:1 This is the message that came to Jeremiah about the people of Judah. He received this prophecy in the fourth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah and the first year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign in Babylon. 
Jeremiah25:2 Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and Jerusalem, saying:" 
Jeremiah25:3 “For the last twenty-three years, ever since the thirteenth year that Josiah son of Amon was king, I have been warning you and continually prophesying to you the words of Yahweh, but you have not listened." 
Jeremiah25:4 Additionally, Yahweh has sent all his servants the prophets to you over and over again, but still you have neither listened nor humbled your hearts to pay attention to them." 
Jeremiah25:5 They told you, ‘If you turn, each person, from your evil ways and from your evil doings, Yahweh will let you remain in the land that he gave you and your ancestors for all time." 
Jeremiah25:6 Do not run after other gods to serve and worship them.’ “ ‘Do not provoke me to anger by worshiping idols your own hands have made, and I will do you no harm,’" 
Jeremiah25:7 declares Yahweh. ‘But you have not listened to me and have provoked my anger by worshiping idols your own hands have made, to your own harm.’ ”" 
Jeremiah25:8 “Therefore, because you have not listened to my words, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says:" 
Jeremiah25:9 ‘Behold, I will summon my servant Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, along with all the northern armies, and bring them to fight against this land, its people, and all these surrounding nations. I will devote them to destruction and make them a desolation. I will turn them into ruins forever. Everyone will be utterly astonished by the sight of what I have done to them." 
Jeremiah25:10 Moreover, I will banish the voices of celebration and laughter from them and the sweet voices of the groom and his bride. I will silence the noise of grinding grain in the morning, and in the evening, lamps will no longer burn in their homes." 
Jeremiah25:11 The entire region will become a ruin, empty as a desert, and these nations will be carried off to Babylon to serve her king for seventy years." 
Jeremiah25:12 “ ‘Then, after seventy years, I will punish the king of Babylon and the land of the Chaldeans for their sin,’ declares Yahweh. ‘I will make their land desolate forever." 
Jeremiah25:13 I will bring against that land all my words of warning that I have spoken against it, everything written in this scroll, which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations." 
Jeremiah25:14 Indeed, I will pay back the Babylonians for every wrong they have done. Great kings from many other nations will conquer the mighty Babylonians and will even make slaves of them.’ ”" 
Jeremiah25:15 Yahweh, Israel’s God, spoke these words to me: “ Jeremiah, take this cup from my hand; it is the cup of the wine of my wrath. Make all the nations to whom I send you drink from it." 
Jeremiah25:16 They will stagger as drunkards and lose their minds because of the massacres I am sending among them.” 
Jeremiah25:17 So I took the cup from Yahweh ’s hand and made all the nations to whom Yahweh sent me drink from it. 
Jeremiah25:18 I started with Jerusalem and the cities of Judah. Their kings and leaders were removed from power in disgrace and made an object of horror, derision, and a curse, as they are today." 
Jeremiah25:19 Then I went to Egypt to her king, Pharaoh, his officials, his leaders, and all the Egyptians," 
Jeremiah25:20 and all foreigners who lived there, and they, too, drank from the cup. Next, I went to all the kings of the land of Uz; all the kings of the territory of the Philistines, of Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and what was still left of Ashdod." 
Jeremiah25:21 Then, I went to the kings of Edom, Moab, and the Ammonites;" 
Jeremiah25:22 the kings of Tyre, the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the Mediterranean lands." 
Jeremiah25:23 Afterward, I went to the cities of Dedan, Tema, Buz, and all the desert tribes of Arabia," 
Jeremiah25:24 all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mixed people groups who live in the desert," 
Jeremiah25:25 all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of Media," 
Jeremiah25:26 all the kings of the north, near and far, one after another, to all the kingdoms of the earth. As for the king of Babylon, he will drink from the cup last of all." 
Jeremiah25:27 “You will say to each one, ‘ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, the God of Israel, says to you: Drink from this cup that is full of the wine of my wrath. Vomit, fall over, and rise no more. And when I send war against the nations, you will be completely defeated.’" 
Jeremiah25:28 “If they refuse to drink from the cup from your hand, you will say to them, ‘ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says this: You have no choice —drink!" 
Jeremiah25:29 For take note, starting with the city called by my own name, Jerusalem, everyone on earth will suffer from war. So there is no way I will let you escape unpunished, declares Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies.’" 
Jeremiah25:30 “ Jeremiah, you must prophesy all these words to them: “ ‘ Yahweh roars from heaven’s heights; his voice thunders from his holy dwelling place. He roars mightily against his people, and his shout will be like those who tread grapes— a shout that echoes to the ends of the earth." 
Jeremiah25:31 The noise will resound over all the earth. For Yahweh declares: I am indicting the nations, bringing all humanity to trial, and sentencing the wicked to death.’ ”" 
Jeremiah25:32 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, decrees: “Behold, disaster is spreading from nation to nation. My anger, like a perfect storm, is rising from the far ends of the earth.”" 
Jeremiah25:33 Those whom Yahweh slaughters that day will be from all over the earth, and no one will mourn for them. No one will gather their bodies or bury them; they will lie as dung on the ground." 
Jeremiah25:34 Howl, you shepherds, wail in sorrow, and roll on the ground, you leaders of the flock, for your day has come to be slaughtered like sheep. You will fall and be scattered, like pieces of broken pottery." 
Jeremiah25:35 Shepherds, you have nowhere to hide, nowhere to run, you leaders of the flock." 
Jeremiah25:36 Listen as the shepherds cry out in distress! Listen as the leaders of the flock wail in sorrow! For Yahweh has laid their pasture waste," 
Jeremiah25:37 and their peaceful meadows are reduced to silence because of Yahweh ’s furious anger. 
Jeremiah25:38 The lion has left his lair, and their land is left a wasteland because of the sword of the oppressor and because of his fierce anger." 
Jeremiah26:1 Yahweh spoke these words to Jeremiah at the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah." 
Jeremiah26:2 Yahweh said to me, “Stand in the court of my house, the temple, and announce what I tell you to say to the crowds coming to worship me from the cities of Judah. Do not leave out anything or hold back a word." 
Jeremiah26:3 Perhaps they will listen, and they will all turn from their evil ways. If so, I will relent and not bring the impending disaster I have planned for them because of their evil deeds." 
Jeremiah26:4 “Give them this warning: ‘ Yahweh says: If you will not listen to me and obey the instructions that I have given you 
Jeremiah26:5 or heed the words of my servants the prophets, whom I keep sending to you even though you have not obeyed them," 
Jeremiah26:6 then I will make this temple into a pile of ruins just like I did to Shiloh. This city will become a worldwide object of cursing.’ ” 
Jeremiah26:7 The priests, prophets, and all the people heard what Jeremiah said in the temple court of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah26:8 When Jeremiah had finished speaking the message Yahweh had ordered him to give to the people, all the priests, prophets, and people forcefully seized him and said, “You ought to be killed for this!" 
Jeremiah26:9 Why have you prophesied in Yahweh ’s name, ‘This temple will become a pile of ruins like Shiloh, and Jerusalem become an uninhabited ruin?’ ” Then a mob formed and ganged up against Jeremiah in the temple court of Yahweh." 
Jeremiah26:10 Upon hearing about this, the leaders of Judah went up from the royal palace to the temple of Yahweh and took their seats to hold court at the gate of Yahweh ’s temple." 
Jeremiah26:11 Then the priests and prophets said to the leaders and all the people, “This man deserves to die, since he has prophesied horrible things against this city, which you yourselves have heard.”" 
Jeremiah26:12 Then Jeremiah defended himself before all the leaders and the people, saying, “ Yahweh himself sent me to prophesy this message you have heard me speak against this temple and this city." 
Jeremiah26:13 But if you stop doing evil, change your ways, and obey the voice of Yahweh your God, then Yahweh will stop the impending disaster and relent of what he has decreed against you." 
Jeremiah26:14 As for me, I am in your hands. Do with me whatever seems right to you." 
Jeremiah26:15 Only be sure of this: if you put me to death, you will be bringing innocent blood on yourselves, on this city, and on its people, since Yahweh has truly sent me to bring you the warning you have heard.”" 
Jeremiah26:16 Then all the leaders and the people said to the priests and prophets, “This man does not deserve to die, for he has spoken to us in the name of Yahweh our God.”" 
Jeremiah26:17 And some of the elders of the nation then stood to address the crowd: 
Jeremiah26:18 “In the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, the prophet Micah of Moresheth prophesied to all the people of Judah, ‘ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declares: “ ‘Zion will be plowed under like a field, Jerusalem will become a heap of rubble, and the Temple Mount will be covered with overgrowth.’" 
Jeremiah26:18 “In the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, the prophet Micah of Moresheth prophesied to all the people of Judah, ‘ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declares: “ ‘Zion will be plowed under like a field, Jerusalem will become a heap of rubble, and the Temple Mount will be covered with overgrowth.’" 
Jeremiah26:19 “Did King Hezekiah and the people of Judah sentence Micah to death for prophesying this? Did not the king rather fear Yahweh, humble himself, and plead earnestly with him so that he relented of the disaster that he had decreed against them? Do we really want to bring a disaster upon ourselves with such a crime?”" 
Jeremiah26:19 “Did King Hezekiah and the people of Judah sentence Micah to death for prophesying this? Did not the king rather fear Yahweh, humble himself, and plead earnestly with him so that he relented of the disaster that he had decreed against them? Do we really want to bring a disaster upon ourselves with such a crime?”" 
Jeremiah26:20 There was another prophet in those day who prophesied in Yahweh ’s name, Uriah son of Shemaiah, from Kiriath Jearim. He prophesied the same things against Judah and Jerusalem as Jeremiah." 
Jeremiah26:21 When King Jehoiakim and all his leaders and mighty men heard what Uriah prophesied, the king was determined to put him to death. On hearing this, he was afraid and escaped to Egypt." 
Jeremiah26:22 King Jehoiakim, however, sent Elnathan son of Achbor to Egypt with others," 
Jeremiah26:23 who brought Uriah back from Egypt and took him to King Jehoiakim. The king executed Uriah with the sword and had his body thrown into the common burial ground. 
Jeremiah26:24 Nevertheless Jeremiah escaped execution—but only because Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, protected him and would not allow him to be handed over to the furious crowd." 
Jeremiah27:1 Yahweh spoke these words to Jeremiah at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah son of Josiah, king of Judah." 
Jeremiah27:2 Yahweh said to me: “Make a harness, attach it to the wooden bars of a yoke, and put them on your neck." 
Jeremiah27:3 The ambassadors of the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre, and Sidon are in Jerusalem to see Zedekiah king of Judah. Tell them," 
Jeremiah27:4 ‘Here is a message for your kings. The Commander of Angel Armies, the God of Israel, commands you to deliver this message to them:" 
Jeremiah27:5 “ ‘ “I am the one who made the earth, every person, and every animal in the world by my great strength and by my mighty power, and I can give it to whomever I please." 
Jeremiah27:6 Now I have given all your countries to my servant, King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon. I have even given him the wild animals to serve him." 
Jeremiah27:7 All nations will serve him, his son, and his grandson —until the time of the fall of his own kingdom comes, when other nations and great kings will make him their servant." 
Jeremiah27:8 The nation or kingdom that refuses to submit to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon and does not put its neck into the harness of the yoke to serve the king, I will punish,” declares Yahweh. “I will punish it with the sword, food shortages, and pestilence until I have let Nebuchadnezzar completely destroy it." 
Jeremiah27:9 “ ‘ “Do not listen to your prophets; they are false. Do not listen to your fortune tellers, dream interpreters, mediums, sorcerers, and magicians who say to you, ‘The king of Babylon will not conquer you.’" 
Jeremiah27:10 They are prophesying lies to you; do not believe them! They open the door for your enemies to take you away. I will drive you out of your land, and you will perish." 
Jeremiah27:11 But the nation that harnesses herself to the yoke of the king of Babylon and serves him, I will allow her to live and farm her land,” declares Yahweh.’ ”" 
Jeremiah27:12 I, Jeremiah, also delivered a similar message to King Zedekiah of Judah: “You must harness yourself to the yoke of the king of Babylon; serve him and his people, and you will live." 
Jeremiah27:13 Otherwise you will die together with your people by sword, food shortages, and pestilence, as Yahweh has threatened any nation that does not serve the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:14 Pay no attention to the words of the prophets who say to you, ‘Do not serve the king of Babylon,’ for they prophesy lies to you." 
Jeremiah27:15 ‘I have not sent them,’ declares Yahweh. ‘They lie when they affirm that they are speaking in my name. If you listen to them, I will drive you out. You will be destroyed—you and the prophets who are lying to you.’ ”" 
Jeremiah27:16 And to the priests and to all the people I said: “Do not listen to the words of the prophets who lie to you, saying, ‘The holy vessels plundered from Yahweh ’s temple are going to be brought back to you soon from Babylon,’ for they prophesy falsely to you, declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah27:17 Do not listen to them! Serve the king of Babylon and live a long life. Why should Jerusalem be destroyed? 
Jeremiah27:18 If they are true prophets and the word of Yahweh is in them, let them intercede with Yahweh, the Commander of Angel Armies, so that the furnishings that are still left in Yahweh ’s temple, in the king’s palace, and in Jerusalem may not be carried off to Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:19 That’s because Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has already spoken about the temple furnishings that remain in the city—the bronze pillars, the large bronze basin, the stands, and all the other bowls and chalices." 
Jeremiah27:20 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon didn’t take them away when he took captive Jeconiah son of Jehoiakim to Babylon along with all the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah27:21 For the God of Israel, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, said that the furnishings left behind in Yahweh ’s temple, in the royal palace, and in Jerusalem" 
Jeremiah27:22 will be carried off to Babylon, and ‘they will stay there until the day that I restore them and bring them back where they belong,’ declares Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah28:1 That same year, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fifth month of the fourth year, the prophet Hananiah son of Azzur, a Gibeonite, spoke to me in the temple of Yahweh in the presence of the priests and of all the people:" 
Jeremiah28:2 “ Yahweh, the God of Israel, the Commander of Angel Armies, says, ‘I have shattered the yoke of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah28:3 Within two years, I will return all the temple treasures of Yahweh that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon carried off from here and took to Babylon." 
Jeremiah28:4 And I will also bring back Jeconiah son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the exiles of Judah who have gone to Babylon.’ For Yahweh declares, ‘I will shatter the yoke of the king of Babylon.’ ”" 
Jeremiah28:5 Then Jeremiah the prophet replied to Hananiah the prophet in front of the priests and all the people who had come to worship at the temple of Yahweh. 
Jeremiah28:6 “So be it! May he fulfill the words that you have prophesied and return all the temple treasures of Yahweh and all the exiles back to this place from Babylon. 
Jeremiah28:7 Nevertheless, listen to this word that I speak to you and the people:" 
Jeremiah28:8 From ancient times, the prophets who preceded you and me prophesied war, disaster, and plague against many countries and great kingdoms." 
Jeremiah28:9 But when a prophet prophesies peace, wait to see if his words come true; then you will have proof that Yahweh had truly sent him.”" 
Jeremiah28:10 All at once, the prophet Hananiah snatched the yoke off Jeremiah’s neck and broke it." 
Jeremiah28:11 And in front of all the people, Hananiah said, “Hear the word of Yahweh: ‘Just as I broke this yoke, so Yahweh will free all the nations from the power of King Nebuchadnezzar within two years.’ ” At this, the prophet Jeremiah walked away." 
Jeremiah28:12 After the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke around Jeremiah’s neck, Yahweh gave Jeremiah this message:" 
Jeremiah28:13 “Go back and inform Hananiah, ‘ Yahweh has told me that, indeed, you have broken wooden bars only to forge iron bars in their place." 
Jeremiah28:14 For Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: I now lay on the necks of all these nations a heavy iron yoke to enslave them to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. They will be enslaved to him; I will even make the wild animals serve him!’ ”" 
Jeremiah28:15 Then Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah, “You had better listen, Hananiah. Yahweh has not sent you; you have misled the people to trust in a lie." 
Jeremiah28:16 And so, Yahweh declares, ‘I will remove you from the face of the earth. You will die this year because you have preached rebellion against Yahweh.’ ”" 
Jeremiah28:17 The prophet Hananiah died the same year, in the seventh month." 
Jeremiah29:1 This is the open letter that the prophet Jeremiah sent from Jerusalem to the rest of the elders in exile, to the priests, the prophets, and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had deported from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:2 (Among the exiles were King Jeconiah, Nehushta the queen mother, the high-ranking officials, the leading men of Judah and Jerusalem, and the craftsmen and metalworkers.)" 
Jeremiah29:3 Jeremiah entrusted the letter to Elasah son of Shaphan and to Gemariah son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah had sent to Babylon, to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. The letter read as follows:" 
Jeremiah29:4 Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says to all the exiles deported from Jerusalem to Babylon:" 
Jeremiah29:5 “Build houses and settle in the land. Plant gardens and eat their produce. 
Jeremiah29:6 Get married and have children; encourage your sons and daughters to get married and raise families. Flourish in your captivity, for you must increase and not decrease." 
Jeremiah29:7 Work for the good of the city to which I have exiled you. And pray to Yahweh, asking for a blessing on your city since your peace depends on its peace.”" 
Jeremiah29:8 For Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “Do not be deceived by the false prophets in your midst or by those who presume to know the future. Pay no attention to their dreams," 
Jeremiah29:9 for,” Yahweh declares, “they prophesy lies to you in my name, and I have not sent them." 
Jeremiah29:10 I say to you: After Babylon has ruled over you for seventy years, I will show compassion to you and will fulfill my promise of giving you good things, and I will bring you back to your land.”" 
Jeremiah29:11 Here’s what Yahweh says to you: “I know all about the marvelous destiny I have in store for you, a future planned out in detail. My intention is not to harm you but to surround you with peace and prosperity and to give you a beautiful future, glistening with hope." 
Jeremiah29:12 When you call on me and come to me in prayer, I will listen to your every word." 
Jeremiah29:13 If you reach out to me, you will find me when you search for me with all your heart." 
Jeremiah29:14 I will not disappoint you,” declares Yahweh. “ All that you have lost, I will restore, and I will regather you from all the nations where I have scattered you. I will bring you back home to the land from which I exiled you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah29:15 Yahweh says all these things to you because you claim that he has raised up prophets for you in Babylon. 
Jeremiah29:16 This is what Yahweh says about David’s descendant, King Zedekiah, and all the people living in this city, your relatives who were not taken away as prisoners with you:" 
Jeremiah29:17 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “I am now going to send catastrophe to them—war, food shortages, and plague. I will make them like worthless figs, so rotten they cannot be eaten." 
Jeremiah29:18 I will make them into a horrible sight to all the earth, a curse, a thing of horror, scorn, and derision to all the nations where I have driven them. I will afflict them with war, food shortages, and plague" 
Jeremiah29:19 because they have refused to listen to my words,” declares Yahweh, “although I have sent all my servants the prophets to them over and over, but still they closed their ears,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah29:20 “So pay attention, you exiles, whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon, to what I, Yahweh, have said!”" 
Jeremiah29:21 This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says about Ahab the son of Kolaiah and Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah. He says, “These men are telling you lies in my name. Therefore, I will hand them over to King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, and he will have them put to death before your eyes." 
Jeremiah29:22 And in the future, when the people of Judah who are exiles in Babylon want to put a curse on someone, they will say, ‘I pray that Yahweh kills you in the same way the king of Babylon burned Zedekiah and Ahab to death!’" 
Jeremiah29:23 For they have done outrageous scandals in Israel, committing adultery with other men’s wives and speaking lying words in my name that I never spoke to them. I know all that they have done and am a witness against them. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah29:24 “This is what you should say to Shemaiah of Nehelam: 
Jeremiah29:25 Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: You have taken it upon yourself to write letters to all the people in Jerusalem, to the priest Zephaniah son of Maaseiah and to all the priests. Your letter states," 
Jeremiah29:25 Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: You have taken it upon yourself to write letters to all the people in Jerusalem, to the priest Zephaniah son of Maaseiah and to all the priests. Your letter states," 
Jeremiah29:26 ‘After the death of Jehoiada the priest, Yahweh chose you to be the priest in charge of the temple security. You know that anyone who acts crazy and pretends to be a prophet should be arrested and put in chains and iron collars." 
Jeremiah29:27 Why, then, haven’t you done this to Jeremiah of Anathoth, who is now posing as a prophet to the people?" 
Jeremiah29:28 He even sent us a letter in Babylon, saying: You’ll be there a long time, so build houses, settle down, plant gardens, and eat what they produce.’ ”" 
Jeremiah29:29 Now, when the priest Zephaniah had read this letter to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah29:29 Now, when the priest Zephaniah had read this letter to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah29:30 Yahweh said to Jeremiah," 
Jeremiah29:31 “Send another letter to all the exiles in Babylon: I, Yahweh, have not chosen Shemaiah of Nehelam to be one of my prophets, and he has misled you by telling lies in my name." 
Jeremiah29:32 He has even stirred up rebellion against me. Therefore, I will punish Shemaiah. He and his descendants will not live to see the good things I will do for my people. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Jeremiah30:1 This is the message that Yahweh gave to Jeremiah. 
Jeremiah30:2 Yahweh, the God of Israel, gave Jeremiah this command: “Write everything I have told you in a book." 
Jeremiah30:3 For I decree that the time is coming when I will restore all that you have lost and bring back my captive people, Israel and Judah,” says Yahweh. “I will bring them back to possess the land that I gave to their ancestors.”" 
Jeremiah30:4 Then Yahweh told me to say to Israel and Judah: “I, Yahweh, hear the voice of panic, the screams of terror, and no sound of peace anywhere." 
Jeremiah30:5  
Jeremiah30:6 Now, ask yourself this and carefully consider: can a man give birth to a child? Then why do I see each man gripping his sides like a woman in labor? How terrible! Why has every face turned pale?" 
Jeremiah30:7 A disaster! A terrible day like no other. It will be great tribulation for Jacob, yet he will be saved out of it." 
Jeremiah30:8 “In that day,” declares Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, “I will break off the yoke from your neck and snap your chains, and foreigners will no longer enslave you." 
Jeremiah30:9 But Israel and Judah will be servants of Yahweh their God, and I will raise up a king for them from the lineage of David.”" 
Jeremiah30:10 Yahweh says, “My servant Jacob, do not fear; Israel, do not be alarmed. I will rescue you and your descendants from that foreign land in which you are held captive. You will return and live in peace, safe and secure, with no one to trouble you." 
Jeremiah30:11 For I am with you and will save you,” Yahweh declares. “Someday, I will bring destruction to all the nations where I have driven you, but I will not destroy you. I will discipline you but in moderation. I will not let you go entirely unpunished.”" 
Jeremiah30:12 Yahweh says: “Your wound is incurable; your injuries are so serious, they’re beyond healing." 
Jeremiah30:13 Everyone has given up on you. At least for an ulcer there are remedies, but for you, there’s no cure at all." 
Jeremiah30:14 All those ‘lovers’ you had have abandoned you; they could not care less. Yes, I struck you with cruel punishment because of your great guilt and countless sins. I struck you mercilessly like you were my enemy." 
Jeremiah30:15 There is no point in crying out over your pain, for your wound is incurable. I have treated you like this because of your great guilt and countless sins." 
Jeremiah30:16 “But rest assured, all those who devoured you will be devoured; all your enemies, every one of them, will go into captivity. Those who devastated you will be devastated, and all who made you their prey, I will make a prey." 
Jeremiah30:17 For I, Yahweh, say to you who were once called ‘Outcast,’ I will heal your wounds. And to you who were once called ‘Forgotten Zion,’ I will restore your health.”" 
Jeremiah30:18 Yahweh says: “See, I will restore the fortunes of the tents of Jacob and have compassion on his families. The city will be rebuilt on its mound with the city fortress in its rightful place." 
Jeremiah30:19 Out of them will be heard the joyous songs of thanksgiving and the raucous shouts of joy. I will cause them to flourish and not diminish. I will bring them honor, and they will not be humiliated." 
Jeremiah30:20 Their descendants will be just like they were before. Their community will be fixed firmly before me, and I shall punish all their oppressors." 
Jeremiah30:21 Their majestic prince will be one of their own. Their ruler will arise from among them, and I will give him free and easy access to me. For who is he who will pledge his heart to remain close to me?” Yahweh asks." 
Jeremiah30:22 “You will be my very own people, and I shall be your very own God.”" 
Jeremiah30:23 Behold, Yahweh ’s anger is like the fury of a fearsome whirlwind about to hit the wicked head-on with gale-force winds." 
Jeremiah30:24 Yahweh ’s anger will not relent until he has perfectly carried out what he has in mind. In the latter days, you will clearly understand this." 
Jeremiah31:1 “At that time,” Yahweh declares, “I will be the true God of every family of Israel, and they will be my very own people.”" 
Jeremiah31:2 Yahweh says: “My people who survived the slaughter and the sword found grace in their difficult wilderness. I am bringing Israel to her rest.” 
Jeremiah31:3 Yahweh appeared to me from another realm and said, “I have deeply loved you with a forever-love; that is why I have been so patient and kind to draw you to my heart." 
Jeremiah31:4 You are precious to me, and I will build you up again. Yes, Israel, you will be rebuilt! Once more, you will be decked out in your best attire, take up your tambourines, and go out dancing with great joy." 
Jeremiah31:5 Once more you will plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria, and those who plant them will enjoy the fruit." 
Jeremiah31:6 Yes, there will be a day when the watchmen cry out on the mountains of Samaria, ‘Come on! Let’s go up to Zion to meet with Yahweh our God and worship him!’ ”" 
Jeremiah31:7 For Yahweh says: “Sing with joyous delight for Israel! Yes, shout out praise for the foremost of the nations. ‘ Yahweh, save your people, the remnant of Israel. Proclaim the news! Praise him! Shout it out!’" 
Jeremiah31:8 Watch, as I bring them back from the land of the north and gather them from the ends of the earth. Even the blind and the lame will be among them. Expectant mothers, women about to give birth, will come and be a part of that great homecoming." 
Jeremiah31:9 They will return praying with tears as I lead them home. I will guide them to streams of water, by a smooth path where they will not stumble. For I am Israel’s Father, and Ephraim is my firstborn son." 
Jeremiah31:10 “Listen, nations, to the word of Yahweh. Proclaim it on the distant coastlands, saying, ‘He who scattered Israel will gather him. Like a shepherd guards his flock, Yahweh watches over his people.’" 
Jeremiah31:11 For Yahweh has ransomed the people of Israel and rescued them from an enemy stronger than themselves. 
Jeremiah31:12 They will come, singing for joy on the heights of Zion, and the goodness of Yahweh will make them radiant. Yahweh will bless them with grain, new wine, olive oil, flocks, and herds. They will be prosperous and grow like a well-watered garden, with no reason to be discouraged." 
Jeremiah31:13 The young girls, the young men, and the elderly will dance and celebrate together. I will turn their sad memories into gladness. I will give them joy after all their trouble and will be their comfort.”" 
Jeremiah31:14 Yahweh says, “I will refresh the desire of my priests with abundance and lavish gifts on my people until they are more than satisfied.”" 
Jeremiah31:15 Yahweh says, “In Ramah voices are crying; it is the sound of wailing and bitter weeping. Rachel is mourning for her children, and she refuses to let anyone comfort her over her loss, because her children are no more.”" 
Jeremiah31:16 Yahweh says, “Stop weeping and wipe away your tears! For I will reward you for raising your children,” declares Yahweh, “and they will return from the land of their enemies." 
Jeremiah31:17 There is a door of hope for your future after all, your children will return to their homeland,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:18 “I have heard it! The people of Israel moaning, ‘You disciplined us like young, untamed bulls, but you broke us, and we’ve learned to obey. Bring us back, Yahweh; let us come home, for you are our God." 
Jeremiah31:19 Although we turned away, we have repented. You made us aware of our guilt, and we hung our heads, for we were deeply ashamed and humiliated, and we bear the disgrace of our youth.’ ”" 
Jeremiah31:20 Yahweh replies, “Ephraim, you are still my child no matter what you’ve done; you are still my beloved children, my very precious children. Even though I rebuke you, my thoughts are filled with love. That is why I am so deeply moved with compassion, for I long for you and have mercy in my heart for you,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:21 “Set up your signposts and road markers to find your way home. Take note of the pathway, and remember the road by which you went. Come home, my beloved Israel; return to your own cities." 
Jeremiah31:22 Faithless one, how long will you hesitate? For Yahweh is creating something new on earth. A woman will rescue a warrior!”" 
Jeremiah31:23 Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says, “This blessing will once again be heard throughout Judah and its towns when I bring their captives home: “ ‘May Yahweh bless the Holy Place where he lives, O holy mountain of Jerusalem!’" 
Jeremiah31:24 “People throughout Judah and her towns will live together in peace, both the farmers and shepherds with their flocks." 
Jeremiah31:25 For I will refresh the weary soul and satisfy all those who have given up on life.” 
Jeremiah31:26 At this, I awoke and realized that my sleep had been sweet to me." 
Jeremiah31:27 “Look, the days are coming,” Yahweh declares, “when I will repopulate the land of Israel and Judah with both people and livestock." 
Jeremiah31:28 I have watched over them to uproot, to knock down, to overthrow, destroy, and bring calamity, so now, I will carefully watch over them as they start over again and rebuild. And I will help them grow,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:29 “In those days, people will no longer quote the proverb: ‘Children must pay the consequences of their fathers’ sins.’" 
Jeremiah31:30 “Rather, everyone who eats sour grapes will have a stomachache. Each one will be responsible for their own sins.”" 
Jeremiah31:31 Yahweh declares: “Look, the days are coming when I will enter into a brand-new covenant with the people of Israel and Judah." 
Jeremiah31:32 It will not be like the covenant I made with their ancestors when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt. They broke that covenant even though I was their husband,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:33 “No, this is the new covenant I will make with the people of Israel when the time has come,” declares Yahweh. “I will embed my law into the core of their being and write it on their hearts and minds. Then I will truly be their God, and they will truly be my people." 
Jeremiah31:34 None of them will have to teach their friends or family, saying, ‘Come and know Yahweh intimately!’ No, from the least to the greatest, they will all know me intimately,” Yahweh declares, “for I will remove their guilt and wipe their sin from my memory.”" 
Jeremiah31:35 “I am Yahweh All-Powerful. I declare to you: I order the sun to light up the day, the stars and moon to brighten the night. I stir the sea and make the ocean waves roar. My name is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah31:36 Just as this established order will not pass away, so I will never let Israel cease from being a nation. “I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Jeremiah31:37 It is impossible for you to measure the heavens above or to fathom the foundations of the earth below. In the same way, it is impossible for me to reject my people Israel, no matter what they have done,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah31:38 “Look, the days are coming when the people will rebuild Jerusalem for me,” declares Yahweh. “ They will rebuild it from the northeast Tower of Hananel to the northwest Corner Gate." 
Jeremiah31:39 And the measuring line will stretch out farther to the Gareb Hill, turning then to Goah." 
Jeremiah31:40 And the entire Hinnom Valley, with its bones and ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the corner of the Horse Gate eastward, will be consecrated and sacred to Yahweh. Jerusalem will never be overthrown or destroyed again.”" 
Jeremiah32:1 Yahweh spoke to me in the tenth year of Zedekiah’s reign in Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign." 
Jeremiah32:2 At that time, the Babylonian army was attacking Jerusalem, and I was confined in the king’s palace guardhouse." 
Jeremiah32:3 King Zedekiah had imprisoned me because I had prophesied Yahweh ’s message: “I am Yahweh, and I am about to let the king of Babylonia conquer Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah32:4 King Zedekiah will not escape but will be captured and taken to the king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar, who will see him face-to-face and speak with him in person." 
Jeremiah32:5 Then Zedekiah will be taken captive to Babylon, where he will remain until I am finished with him. If you fight against the Babylonians, you will not succeed. For I, Yahweh, have decreed it.”" 
Jeremiah32:6 Then Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Jeremiah32:7 “ Your cousin Hanamel, son of your uncle Shallum, will come to you and say: ‘Buy my field at Anathoth, for you have the right of redemption to purchase it.’ ”" 
Jeremiah32:8 And it happened just as Yahweh had said. My cousin Hanamel came to me in the palace guardhouse and said, “Buy my field at Anathoth in the territory of Benjamin. As my nearest relative, you have the right of possession and redemption, so buy it.” Then I knew that this was Yahweh ’s plan." 
Jeremiah32:9 So I bought the field from my cousin Hanamel at Anathoth and weighed out the purchase price to him of seventeen silver shekels. 
Jeremiah32:10 I signed the deed and sealed it, called in witnesses, and weighed out the silver on the scales." 
Jeremiah32:11 Then I took both the sealed deed of purchase (with the price and conditions of the sale) and the unsealed copy," 
Jeremiah32:12 and I handed them over to Baruch son of Neriah, grandson of Mahseiah, in the presence of my cousin Hanamel. The witnesses who had signed the deed of purchase and all the people who happened to be in the palace guardhouse were gathered there." 
Jeremiah32:13 In their presence, I gave Baruch the order," 
Jeremiah32:14 “ Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: ‘Take the sealed deed of purchase and its open copy and secure them in a clay pot so that they may be preserved for a long time.’" 
Jeremiah32:15 For Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: ‘People will once again buy houses, fields, and vineyards in this land.’ ”" 
Jeremiah32:16 After I had entrusted the deed of purchase to Baruch son of Neriah, I prayed:" 
Jeremiah32:17 “Lord Yahweh, you stretched out your mighty arm and created the heavens and the earth by your awesome power. Nothing is impossible with you!" 
Jeremiah32:18 You show your loyal, tender love to thousands and thousands. But you also repay the guilt of fathers upon their children. You are the great and mighty God, whose name is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah32:19 You surpass all with your wise counsel and wise planning. Your miracles reveal your mighty power. Your eyes see everything people do, and you repay each one according to what their ways and actions deserve." 
Jeremiah32:20 You performed signs and wonders in Egypt as you still do in Israel even to this day. Your name is famous yesterday, today, and forever." 
Jeremiah32:21 Your signs and wonders in Egypt resulted in rescuing your people Israel. You stretched out your mighty hand and bared your omnipotent arm and terrifying power. 
Jeremiah32:22 Then you gave them this land that you had promised their ancestors, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Jeremiah32:23 But when they entered and took possession of it, they would neither listen to your voice nor follow your law. They would do nothing you commanded them to do, so you brought this disaster on them." 
Jeremiah32:24 Look! The Babylonians have already set up siege ramps to take the city! Jerusalem is now within their clutches. The people will suffer from war, food shortages, and disease when they attack the city. What you prophesied has now come true, as you see." 
Jeremiah32:25 Yet you, Lord Yahweh, are the one who told me: ‘Buy the field, pay for it, and get witnesses,’ even though the Babylonians are about to capture the city.”" 
Jeremiah32:26 The word of Yahweh came to me, saying," 
Jeremiah32:27 “Behold, I am Yahweh, God of all the world. Nothing is impossible with me." 
Jeremiah32:28 Therefore, I say to you, I will hand Jerusalem over to the Babylonians and to Nebuchadnezzar the king, and he will conquer it." 
Jeremiah32:29 The attacking army of Babylon will seize this city, set it on fire, and burn it to the ground. The people offered sacrifices to Baal on those same rooftops and poured out drink offerings to other idols, provoking my anger." 
Jeremiah32:30 From their earliest history, the people of Israel and Judah alike have done evil in my presence. In fact, the people of Israel have done nothing but make me angry by their actions, declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah32:31 From the day they built this city, these people have made me angry and furious. Therefore, I will destroy it" 
Jeremiah32:32 because of all the wickedness of the people of Israel and Judah. They have all provoked my anger, their kings, their officials, their priests, their prophets, the people of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah32:33 They have turned their backs to me and not their faces. Even though I taught them so untiringly over and over, they would not listen or accept correction." 
Jeremiah32:34 Instead, they have defiled the house that bears my name by placing their detestable idols inside it." 
Jeremiah32:35 And in the Valley of Hinnom, they have built shrines to Baal. They have sacrificed their little sons and daughters to Molech in the fire —something I never commanded, nor did it ever enter my thoughts!”" 
Jeremiah32:36 Yahweh, God of Israel, says, “You say that because of war, plague, and food shortages that Jerusalem will fall and be handed over to the king of Babylon, but this is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, says:" 
Jeremiah32:37 I will graciously regather the people of Jerusalem although I was previously filled with anger and scattered them in foreign countries by my great indignation. Yes, I will bring them back to this place, and they will live under my protection." 
Jeremiah32:38 Then they will be my people, and I will be their God." 
Jeremiah32:39 I will give them one single purpose and one wonderful way to live so that they will always honor me, for their own good and for the good of their descendants." 
Jeremiah32:40 I will make an everlasting covenant with them, and I will never stop doing good things for them. I will inspire them to honor and respect me so that they will never walk away from me again." 
Jeremiah32:41 What delight I will have in doing good things for them! With all my heart and soul, I promise that they will be planted firmly in this land once again." 
Jeremiah32:42 “For Yahweh promises: Just as I have brought great disaster on the people, I will someday do all these great things for them." 
Jeremiah32:43 People will again buy fields in this land that you call a wasteland without men or animals. I have given it over to the Babylonians. 
Jeremiah32:44 Yes, people will pay cash for property, draw up deeds, seal them, and have them witnessed in the territory of Benjamin, throughout the villages around Jerusalem, the towns of Judah, the highlands, the western foothills, and the southern desert. For I will restore what was lost and bring the captives back to their land,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah33:1 Jeremiah was still confined to the palace guardhouse when the word of Yahweh came to him a second time, saying:" 
Jeremiah33:2 “I, Yahweh, made the earth, formed its contours, and set it in place. Yahweh is my name. I say to you," 
Jeremiah33:3 cry out to me and I will answer you. I will reveal to you great things, guarded secrets that you never could have known." 
Jeremiah33:4 For I, Yahweh, God of Israel, have something to say about the houses of this city and the dwellings of the kings of Judah. You have torn them down to be used to defend yourselves against the attack of the Babylonian armies." 
Jeremiah33:5 The defenders of the city will go out and battle the Babylonians, but this will only serve to fill the ruins with the corpses of men who are the victims of my furious anger. I have hidden my face from this city because of all their evil." 
Jeremiah33:6 “Nevertheless, I will heal them, restore them, and give them prosperity and lasting peace." 
Jeremiah33:7 I will bring back the captives of Israel and Judah and reestablish them as before. 
Jeremiah33:8 I will cleanse them from all the guilt of all the sins they have committed against me. I will even forgive all their sins of rebellion against me. 
Jeremiah33:9 And it will become to me a source of joy, honor, and splendor for all the earth to see. When they hear of all the prosperity that I bestow upon the people, they will be shaken to the core at all the good and prosperity that I lavish upon it." 
Jeremiah33:10 “They say about this place, ‘It is a wasteland, without people or animals.’ But this is what I, Yahweh, say to you: In the desolate towns of Judah and in the abandoned streets of Jerusalem without people or animals, you will hear once more" 
Jeremiah33:11 the raucous shouts of joy and mirth and the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride. You will once again hear the glad songs sung by those who bring thank offerings to my temple, singing, ‘We give thanks to mighty Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, for he is so good, and he will love you forever!’ “I, Yahweh, promise that I will bring back the country’s captives, as before." 
Jeremiah33:12 And surrounding all the towns of this uninhabited wasteland without people or animals, there will once again be pastureland for the shepherds to rest their flocks,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah33:13 “In the towns of the highlands, the lowlands, and the southern desert, in the land of Benjamin, in the villages around Jerusalem, and in the towns of Judah, flocks will once again pass under the hand of a shepherd who counts them,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah33:14 Yahweh says, “The time is coming when I will fulfill the gracious promise of good things to come that I made to the people of Israel and Judah:" 
Jeremiah33:15 At that time, I will cause a righteous Branch to sprout from David’s lineage. And he will administer justice and righteousness in the land." 
Jeremiah33:16 Under his rule, Judah will triumph and Jerusalem will live in safety. And the city will be called Yahweh Is Our Righteousness.”" 
Jeremiah33:17 Yahweh says, “There will always be a descendant of David to be king in Israel." 
Jeremiah33:18 And there will always be priests from the tribe of Levi to stand before me to offer burnt offerings, grain offering, and daily sacrifices to me.”" 
Jeremiah33:19 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Jeremiah33:20 “I say to you that I, Yahweh, have a covenant with the day and the night so that they always come at their appointed times. As no one can break the covenant I made with them," 
Jeremiah33:21 so no one can break the covenant I have made with my servant David and with the priests from the tribe of Levi who serve at my altar. A descendant of David will always rule as king of Israel. 
Jeremiah33:22 Just as no one can count the stars in the sky nor measure the sand of the seashore, so I will increase the descendants of my servant David and the Levites who minister to me until they cannot be counted.”" 
Jeremiah33:23 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Jeremiah33:24 “Have you heard that these people are saying, ‘ Yahweh has forsaken Judah and Israel, whom he chose for himself’? They despise my people and no longer consider them as a nation." 
Jeremiah33:25 I, Yahweh, say to you that I will never break my covenant with the day and the night or let the heavens and the earth stop obeying my commands." 
Jeremiah33:26 In the same way, I will never reject the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and of David my servant. There will always be a descendant of David to rule over his people. For I will show kindness to my people Israel, and they will prosper and be successful again.”" 
Jeremiah34:1 Yahweh spoke to me when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, was at war against Jerusalem and the cities of Judah. He had all his army with him, including soldiers from all the kingdoms of his empire." 
Jeremiah34:2 Yahweh, God of Israel, then told me to go to Zedekiah king of Judah and give him this message: “ Yahweh says to you, ‘I am going to hand over this city to the king of Babylon, and he will burn it down." 
Jeremiah34:3 You will not escape from his clutches but will certainly be captured and given over to him. You will see the king of Babylon face-to-face and speak to him in person. Then you will go into exile to Babylon. 
Jeremiah34:4 So listen now to the promise of Yahweh, Zedekiah king of Judah. I, Yahweh, say that you will not be executed." 
Jeremiah34:5 You will die in peace, and incense will be burned for you at your funeral as they burned it for the kings before you. They will mourn for you, saying: “How terrible! Our highness is dead! ” I, Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Jeremiah34:6 So I repeated all these words to Zedekiah king of Judah in Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah34:7 Meanwhile, the army of Babylon was trying to break through the walls of Lachish and Azekah, the only remaining fortified towns of Judah." 
Jeremiah34:8 Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah after King Zedekiah had made an agreement with the people of Jerusalem to set free all the Jewish slaves. 
Jeremiah34:9 Everyone was to free their Hebrew slaves, men and women, and no longer enslave a fellow Jew." 
Jeremiah34:10 All the leaders and all the people made an agreement that everyone should free their slaves, men or women, and no longer keep them enslaved, so they set every slave free." 
Jeremiah34:11 But afterward, they went back on their word and forced the men and women whom they had set free back into slavery." 
Jeremiah34:12 Then Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah, saying," 
Jeremiah34:13 “I, Yahweh, God of Israel, made a covenant with your ancestors when I led them out of the house of bondage in Egypt. I said" 
Jeremiah34:14 that every seventh year, each one of you is to free any fellow Hebrews who have sold themselves to you. They may be your slave for six years, then you must give them their freedom. Your ancestors, however, did not listen to me and would not obey." 
Jeremiah34:15 You recently decided to obey me and did what pleases me by setting your Hebrew slaves completely free. You even went to the temple dedicated to me, and in my name, you made a covenant to set them free." 
Jeremiah34:16 But now you have broken your promise and dishonored my name by forcing your former slaves back into slavery. From those whom you once set free to live as they please, you have taken their freedom away again to please yourselves." 
Jeremiah34:17 “So, I, Yahweh, say you have disobeyed me by failing to grant freedom to your fellow Jews. Very well then. I, Yahweh, declare that I will give you freedom—the freedom to die by the sword, disease, and starvation. And I will make you a disgusting sight to every nation in the world." 
Jeremiah34:18 The officials of Judah and of Jerusalem, together with the palace officials, the priests, and all the leaders, made a covenant with me. And to seal their agreement to set their slaves free, they walked between the two halves of a calf that they had cut in two. But they broke the covenant and did not fulfill its terms. So, I will do to these people what they did to the calf." 
Jeremiah34:19  
Jeremiah34:20 I will hand them over to their enemies, to those determined to kill them. And their dead bodies will be food for the birds and beasts." 
Jeremiah34:21 These enemies are the king of Babylon and his army. They have stopped attacking Jerusalem for now, but they still want to kill King Zedekiah of Judah and his officials. So, I will command them to return and attack again. This time they will conquer the city and burn it to the ground. I will hand over King Zedekiah and all his officials. I will also turn the towns of Judah into an inhabitable wasteland.”" 
Jeremiah34:22  
Jeremiah35:1 When Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Jeremiah35:2 “Go to the Rechabites and invite them to come with you into one of the side rooms of the temple of Yahweh. When they arrive, offer them a drink of wine.”" 
Jeremiah35:3 So I went to see Jaazaniah son of Jeremiah and grandson of Habazziniah, his brothers, and all his sons, and the entire Rechabite clan." 
Jeremiah35:4 I brought them all to the temple of Yahweh and into the room where the disciples of the prophet Hanan son of Igdaliah stayed. The room was next to that of the temple officials, directly above the room of Maaseiah son of Shallum, the keeper of the temple entrance." 
Jeremiah35:5 Then I set before the Rechabites pitchers full of wine with some cups and said, “Here, have some wine.”" 
Jeremiah35:6 But they replied, “We don’t drink wine because our ancestor Jonadab son of Rechab made a rule that we must obey. He insisted that we and our descendants must never drink wine," 
Jeremiah35:7 build houses for ourselves, or plant crops or vineyards. He told us, ‘You must always live in tents as resident aliens so that you may live long in the land.’" 
Jeremiah35:8 Our clan has always fully obeyed the command of Jonadab son of Rechab, our ancestor. To this very day, we and our wives, sons, and daughters don’t drink wine, build houses, or plant vineyards or crops. And we have lived in tents." 
Jeremiah35:9  
Jeremiah35:10  
Jeremiah35:11 However, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon invaded the land, we decided, ‘ We must protect ourselves! Let’s go to Jerusalem to escape the armies of the Babylonians and the Syrians.’ That is why we are living now in Jerusalem.”" 
Jeremiah35:12 Then Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Jeremiah35:13 “I am Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies. Go and say to the people of Judah and Jerusalem: ‘You must listen to me and receive instruction. Learn a lesson from the Rechabites, declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah35:14 The words of Jonadab son of Rechab ordered his descendants to drink no wine, and they have fully obeyed their ancestor’s command, for they drank no wine even until today. But I have spoken to you so urgently, over and over, yet you refuse to listen." 
Jeremiah35:15 I have repeatedly sent my servants the prophets to you, saying, “Repent, every one of you, from your evil actions and correct the way you’ve been living. Do not chase after other gods to serve them, and you will continue to live on the land I gave to you and your ancestors.” But you have not paid attention or listened to me." 
Jeremiah35:16 The descendants of Jonadab and Rechab have kept the command their ancestor gave them, but your people have not listened to me." 
Jeremiah35:17 So now, I, Lord Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you people of Judah and Jerusalem: I spoke to you, and you would not listen; because I called to you and you would not answer me, I will bring upon you all the destruction I have decreed against you.’ ”" 
Jeremiah35:18 Then Jeremiah said to the Rechabites, “ Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says to you, ‘Because you have obeyed the commands of your ancestor Jonadab and observed all his rules, obeying everything he ordered you to do," 
Jeremiah35:19 therefore, Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, promises you this: There will always be a male descendant of Jonadab son of Rechab who will stand before me and serve me forever.’ ”" 
Jeremiah36:1 In the fourth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, Yahweh said to me," 
Jeremiah36:2 “Get a scroll and write on it every word that I have spoken to you concerning Israel, Judah, and all the nations from the first time I spoke to you when Josiah was king up to now." 
Jeremiah36:3 Perhaps when the people of Judah hear of the totality of destruction that I intend to bring on them, they will turn from their evil ways; then I will forgive their perversity and their sins.”" 
Jeremiah36:4 So I summoned Baruch son of Neriah and dictated to him everything that Yahweh had said to me, and Baruch wrote it all down on a scroll." 
Jeremiah36:5 Then, I instructed Baruch: “I am forbidden to go back into the temple." 
Jeremiah36:6 So during the next day of fasting in the temple, you must go and read aloud from the scroll so that the people will hear everything that Yahweh has said to me and that I have dictated to you. Make sure all the people of Judah who have come in from their towns hear you clearly." 
Jeremiah36:7 Perhaps they will pray to Yahweh and turn from their evil ways, for Yahweh has promised to punish these people with his terrible anger and fury.”" 
Jeremiah36:8 So Baruch followed my instructions, went into the temple, and read Yahweh ’s words from the scroll." 
Jeremiah36:9 In the ninth month of the fifth year that Jehoiakim son of Josiah was king of Judah, the people of Judah and Jerusalem were fasting." 
Jeremiah36:10 Then, while all the people were listening in the temple, Baruch publicly read from the scroll everything that I had said. He did this from the room of Gemariah son of Shaphan, the king’s royal scribe. His room was in the upper courtyard near the entrance of the New Gate of the temple." 
Jeremiah36:11 The moment Micaiah the son of Gemariah heard Yahweh ’s message being read from the scroll," 
Jeremiah36:12 he went straight to the king’s palace and to the chambers of the king’s royal scribe, where all the government officials were holding a meeting. Those attending were Elishama the secretary, Delaiah son of Shemaiah, Elnathan son of Achbor, Gemariah son of Shaphan, Zedekiah son of Hananiah, and all the other government officials." 
Jeremiah36:13 Micaiah recounted everything that he had heard Baruch read to the people from the scroll. 
Jeremiah36:14 Then the officials sent Jehudi (the son of Nethaniah, grandson of Shelemiah and great-grandson of Cushi) to tell Baruch to bring them the scroll that he had read to the people. So Baruch went to them, carrying the scroll in his hand." 
Jeremiah36:15 “Have a seat,” they said, “and please read the scroll to us.” They listened attentively as Baruch read its entirety to them." 
Jeremiah36:16 When they had heard its contents, the officials were seized with panic, and they said to Baruch, “ This is dreadful! We must report this to the king.”" 
Jeremiah36:17 Then they asked him, “Tell us, how did you write all this? Did Jeremiah dictate it to you?”" 
Jeremiah36:18 Baruch answered, “Yes he did. I wrote it down word for word in ink on this scroll.”" 
Jeremiah36:19 Then they said to him, “ For your own safety, you and Jeremiah must go into hiding. Don’t let anyone know where you are.”" 
Jeremiah36:20 For safekeeping, the officials put the scroll in the office of Elishama, the court secretary, and went to the king’s court, where they reported everything to the king." 
Jeremiah36:21 Then the king sent Jehudi to retrieve the scroll. He brought it from the room of Elishama and read it to the king and all his gathered officials. 
Jeremiah36:22 It was winter and the king was sitting in front of the fireplace in his winter palace. 
Jeremiah36:23 As soon as Jehudi finished reading three or four columns from the scroll, the king would cut them off with a small knife and throw them into the fire until the entire scroll was burned up." 
Jeremiah36:24 But none of those who heard the contents of the scroll showed the slightest hint of remorse or sorrow, including the king." 
Jeremiah36:25 Although Elnathan, Delaiah, and Gemariah begged the king not to burn the scroll, he brushed them off and paid no attention to them." 
Jeremiah36:26 Then he commanded Prince Jerahmeel, together with Seraiah son of Azriel and Shelemiah son of Abdeel, to arrest me and my scribe Baruch, but Yahweh had hidden us." 
Jeremiah36:27 After King Jehoiakim had burned the scroll that I had dictated to Baruch, Yahweh instructed me" 
Jeremiah36:28 to get a new scroll and write everything on it that was in the first scroll. 
Jeremiah36:29 Yahweh told me to tell the king, “ Yahweh says to you: You have burned the scroll, and you have demanded that Jeremiah tell you why he prophesied that the king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land and exterminate its people and its animals." 
Jeremiah36:30 So now, I, Yahweh, say to you, King Jehoiakim of Judah, people will cast your dead body out on the ground, where it will rot and be exposed to the sun by day and the frost by night. And none of your descendants will succeed you on the throne of David." 
Jeremiah36:31 I will punish all of you, your descendants, and your officials for all your blatant sins. You and the people of Judah and Jerusalem have not stopped to pay attention to any of my warnings. Therefore, I will pour out on all of you every disaster that I have pronounced against you.”" 
Jeremiah36:32 Then I took another scroll and gave it to Baruch my scribe, and he wrote down everything that I dictated. He wrote everything that had been on the first scroll that Jehoiakim had destroyed. I also dictated to Baruch many similar prophecies, which were added as well." 
Jeremiah37:1 King Nebuchadnezzar had deported Judah’s King Jehoiachin son of Jehoiakim to Babylon. He then installed Josiah’s son Zedekiah as king in his place. 
Jeremiah37:2 But Zedekiah, his officials, and the people paid no attention to the words Yahweh had spoken through me." 
Jeremiah37:3 King Zedekiah sent two men to me with a request, Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah. They said to me, “Please intercede to Yahweh our God that he would help us.”" 
Jeremiah37:3 King Zedekiah sent two men to me with a request, Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the priest, the son of Maaseiah. They said to me, “Please intercede to Yahweh our God that he would help us.”" 
Jeremiah37:4 (Now I was still moving about freely among the people, for I had not yet been put in prison." 
Jeremiah37:5 Meanwhile, Pharaoh and his Egyptian army were on the move. And when the Babylonians who had besieged Jerusalem heard that the Egyptians were on the move against them, they withdrew from the city.)" 
Jeremiah37:6 Then Yahweh, the God of Israel, spoke to me: “This is what you are to say to Zedekiah, the king of Judah, who asked you to consult with me: ‘Pharaoh’s army that you thought was coming to help you is about to return to Egypt." 
Jeremiah37:7  
Jeremiah37:8 And the Babylonians will come back and attack this city. They will capture it and burn it down. 
Jeremiah37:9 I, Yahweh, warn you, do not deceive yourselves into thinking, “The Babylonians won’t come back to attack us,” because they surely will." 
Jeremiah37:10 For even if you were to defeat the entire army of Chaldeans who are fighting against you and only severely wounded men were left lying in their tents, they still would rise up and burn this city to the ground!’ ”" 
Jeremiah37:11 Now, the Babylonian army had withdrawn from Jerusalem at the approach of Pharaoh’s army." 
Jeremiah37:12 So I set out from Jerusalem to go to Anathoth in the territory of Benjamin to settle some affairs regarding my share of an inheritance among my people. 
Jeremiah37:13 But when I arrived at the Benjamin Gate, the captain of the guard named Irijah, son of Shelemiah, grandson of Hananiah, seized me and accused me of trying to desert to the Babylonians." 
Jeremiah37:14 “You’re wrong,” I replied. “I’m not a traitor.” But Irijah refused to listen to me. He arrested me and brought me to the officials." 
Jeremiah37:15 The officials were furious with me, and they beat me and locked me up in the house of Jonathan, the court secretary, which they had made into a prison." 
Jeremiah37:16 After I had been put into the dungeon for a long time," 
Jeremiah37:17 King Zedekiah had me secretly brought to his palace. He asked me, “Has Yahweh given you a word for me?” “Yes,” I answered. “ Yahweh is going to let you be captured by the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah37:18 But please tell me, what crime have I committed against you, your officials, or these people that you have thrown me in prison?" 
Jeremiah37:19 Your ‘prophets’ who told you that the king of Babylonia would not attack you or invade the land, where are they now?" 
Jeremiah37:20 So now, please hear me, my lord the king. Let my humble plea come before you. Do not send me back to the dungeon at the court secretary Jonathan’s house. That would be my certain death!”" 
Jeremiah37:21 So King Zedekiah gave orders to confine me to the palace guardhouse. Each day a loaf of bread from the bakery was given to me until all the bread of the city was gone. So I remained there in the palace courtyard. 
Jeremiah38:1 The officials of Jerusalem were listening to me as I was prophesying, including Shephatiah son of Mattan, Gedaliah son of Pashhur, Jucal son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur son of Malchiah." 
Jeremiah38:2 I told them: “ Yahweh says that whoever stays in this city will die by sword, plague, or food shortages, but anyone who leaves the city and surrenders to the Babylonians will escape with their lives and live." 
Jeremiah38:3 For Yahweh has said, ‘ I will certainly hand over Jerusalem to the army of the king of Babylon, and he will capture it.’ ”" 
Jeremiah38:4 Then the officials said to the king, “This traitor must die! His words are demoralizing the soldiers and all the people left in the city. This man is not seeking the welfare of the people but their ruin.”" 
Jeremiah38:5 King Zedekiah answered, “He is in your hands, so do what you want, I will not stand in your way.”" 
Jeremiah38:6 So they took me and put me into the muddy cistern of the king’s son Malchiah in the palace courtyard. There was little water in the cistern, only mud. They lowered me down with ropes, and I sank down deep into the mud." 
Jeremiah38:7 Ebed-Melech the Ethiopian, a palace official, heard that I had been put into the cistern. As the king was sitting in the Benjamin Gate," 
Jeremiah38:8 Ebed-Melech came out from the palace and spoke to the king. 
Jeremiah38:9 “My lord the king,” he said, “these evil men were wrong to throw the prophet Jeremiah into a muddy cistern. He will starve to death there since there is no more food left in the city.”" 
Jeremiah38:10 So the king commanded Ebed-Melech, “Take thirty men with you from the palace guard and pull the prophet Jeremiah out of the cistern before he dies.”" 
Jeremiah38:11 So he went with the men into the palace to a room under the treasury and took some worn-out clothing and rags and lowered them on ropes to me in the cistern. 
Jeremiah38:12 Ebed-Melech then shouted down to me, “Here, put these worn-out clothes and rags under your armpits to pad the ropes.”" 
Jeremiah38:13 So they hauled me up from the cistern and pulled me out, and I remained in confinement in the palace guardhouse." 
Jeremiah38:14 Later, King Zedekiah summoned me to meet him at his private entrance to the temple of Yahweh. “I want to ask you for a word,” the king said to me, “and keep nothing back from me.”" 
Jeremiah38:15 I answered him, “If I tell you the truth you will put me to death. And if I tell you what you should do, you will not listen to me.”" 
Jeremiah38:16 King Zedekiah then secretly promised me with an oath, saying, “As surely as Yahweh, the giver of this life of ours, lives, I will neither have you put to death nor hand you over to these men who are determined to kill you.”" 
Jeremiah38:17 “Well then,” I said to Zedekiah, “ Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies says, ‘If you go out and surrender to Nebuchadnezzar’s generals, your life will be spared, and Jerusalem will not be burned down. You and your family will survive." 
Jeremiah38:18 But if you do not surrender to Nebuchadnezzar’s generals, this city will be handed over to the Babylonians, they will burn it down, and I will make sure that you are taken prisoner by your enemies.’ ”" 
Jeremiah38:19 King Zedekiah then said to me, “I’m afraid of our own people who have already defected to the Babylonians. They might give me into their hands; then they will torture me!”" 
Jeremiah38:20 “That will not happen,” I told him. “Please listen to Yahweh ’s voice in what I say, and then it will go well with you, and your life will be spared." 
Jeremiah38:21 Yahweh has given me a vision of what will happen to you if you refuse to surrender. 
Jeremiah38:22 I saw all the women left in the king’s palace being led out and given to the generals of the king of Babylon. And they were all taunting you as they were led away: “ ‘Your trusted friends led you astray and overcame you! They told you to resist, as they all ran away! See, now your feet are stuck in the mire, yes, you’re trapped so deep in the mud.’" 
Jeremiah38:23 “Yes, all your wives and children will be marched out into your enemy’s camp. And you, Zedekiah, will be a prisoner in the clutches of the king of Babylon, powerless to escape. And this city will be burned to the ground.”" 
Jeremiah38:24 Zedekiah then said to me, “If you wish to keep on living, tell no one about our conversation." 
Jeremiah38:25 If my officials hear that I have been talking to you, and they come and ask you, ‘What did you say to the king and what did the king say to you? You’d better tell us everything, or we will kill you,’" 
Jeremiah38:26 then you must reply, ‘I humbly begged the king not to send me back to the prison at Jonathan’s house to die there.’ ”" 
Jeremiah38:27 In fact, the officials did come to interrogate me about my meeting with the king, so I told them exactly what he had instructed me to say. Because no one overheard my conversation with the king, they stopped questioning me at that point." 
Jeremiah38:28 And so, I remained confined in the palace guardhouse until the tragic day Jerusalem was captured." 
Jeremiah39:1 It was in the ninth year of Zedekiah’s reign. In the tenth month of that year, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon attacked Jerusalem with his entire army, laying siege to it." 
Jeremiah39:2 After the city had been surrounded for two years, they broke through the city walls." 
Jeremiah39:3 When the Babylonians captured Jerusalem, the king’s leading officials took their seats in the Middle Gate to form their military government: Nergal-Sharezer, Samgar-Nebo, Sar-Sechim a high dignitary of state, Nergal-Sharezer the king’s chief adviser, and all the other officials of the king of Babylon." 
Jeremiah39:4 Upon seeing them at the Middle Gate, Zedekiah and all his soldiers tried to escape the city under cover of darkness. They went by way of the king’s garden and slipped through the gate between the two city walls and headed toward the Jordan River Valley." 
Jeremiah39:5 But the Babylonians pursued them and caught up with Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. They captured him and brought him to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, who was at the town of Riblah in the territory of Hamath, where he passed sentence on him there." 
Jeremiah39:6 Nebuchadnezzar had Zedekiah’s sons slaughtered at Riblah and forced him to watch their execution. The king of Babylon also executed all the leading men of Judah. 
Jeremiah39:7 Then, he ordered that Zedekiah be bound with chains and have his eyes gouged out. Blinded, King Zedekiah was dragged off to distant Babylon." 
Jeremiah39:8 Meanwhile in Jerusalem, the Babylonians demolished the city walls, and burned down the temple of Yahweh and the king’s royal palace." 
Jeremiah39:9 Nebuzaradan the field general held captive anyone left behind in Jerusalem and the deserters who had gone over to him and took them all away to distant Babylon. 
Jeremiah39:10 But he left behind some of the extremely poor people in the land of Judah. They owned nothing, so he gave them fields and vineyards to possess as their own." 
Jeremiah39:11 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave orders to Nebuzaradan, the field general:" 
Jeremiah39:12 “Find Jeremiah, look after him well, and don’t harm him. Do for him whatever he asks.”" 
Jeremiah39:13 Nebuzaradan the field general, Nebushazban the chief palace official, and Nergal-Sharezer a high official, along with the other officers of King Nebuchadnezzar," 
Jeremiah39:14 dispatched some men to bring me from the courtyard of the guardhouse. They entrusted me to the care of Gedaliah son of Ahikam, grandson of Shaphan, and told him to make sure I get home safely. And so, I stayed with the people who remained in Judah." 
Jeremiah39:15 While I was still confined in the courtyard of the guardhouse, Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Jeremiah39:16 “Go and prophesy to Ebed-Melech the Ethiopian and tell him what I, Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies have to say: ‘I am going to do what I promised to do to this city, and it will not be good but disastrous. And you will see it come true before your eyes." 
Jeremiah39:17 But I will rescue you that day, declares Yahweh, and you will not be handed over to the people you fear." 
Jeremiah39:18 I will certainly protect you so that no one will kill you. Yes, your life will be your reward because you have put your trust in me, declares Yahweh.’ ”" 
Jeremiah40:1 The word of Yahweh that came to Jeremiah. I was bound with chains and led away along with all the other people from Jerusalem and Judah that the Babylonians were taking as prisoners to Babylon. When we got to Ramah, Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, realized what had happened to me and released me." 
Jeremiah40:2 He took me aside and said to me, “Your God, Yahweh, prophesied disaster for your country," 
Jeremiah40:3 and now he has brought it to pass. He has done what he threatened to do because your people sinned against Yahweh and would not listen to his voice. So all this has happened to you. 
Jeremiah40:4 Today I release you from your chains. If you would like to come with me to Babylon, then come. I will make sure you are cared for. If you do not want to come to Babylon with me, then stay here. See, you have the whole land before you, so go wherever you think it best.”" 
Jeremiah40:5 However, before I turned to leave, Nebuzaradan added, “Have you thought about staying with Gedaliah son of Ahikam, grandson of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has appointed governor over the towns of Judah? You could stay with him among the people or go anywhere else you think best.” With that, Nebuzaradan gave me a gift and ample provisions for my journey and let me go." 
Jeremiah40:6 I decided to stay with my people in the land of Judah, so I went to live near Gedaliah in Mizpah." 
Jeremiah40:7 There were still some Judean forces in the open country. Their captains heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah son of Ahikam as governor of Judah and made him responsible for everyone, including the poor, who had not been deported to Babylon." 
Jeremiah40:8 Those who came to Gedaliah at Mizpah included Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, Jezaniah son of the Maacathite, they and their men." 
Jeremiah40:9 Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, grandson of Shaphan, reassured them and gave them his word that they need not be afraid to serve the Babylonians. “Stay in the land,” he said. “Serve the king of Babylon, and everything will be fine." 
Jeremiah40:10 I will stay here at Mizpah and represent you to the Babylonians on their official visits. Meanwhile, you can harvest the wine, the summer crops, and olive oil. Go ahead and store up the harvest and settle in the towns you have taken over.”" 
Jeremiah40:11 Many people from Judah had fled to Moab, Ammon, Edom, or other countries. But when they learned that the Babylonian king had allowed the rest of the people in Judah to return and had named Gedaliah governor," 
Jeremiah40:12 they also returned to Judah from all the places where they had been scattered and reported to Gedaliah in Mizpah. The people harvested large amounts of wine and fruit. 
Jeremiah40:13 One day Johanan son of Kareah and all the military leaders still in the field came to Mizpah to meet with Gedaliah. 
Jeremiah40:14 They said to him, “We came to warn you that Baalis king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael son of Nethaniah to assassinate you.” But Gedaliah would not believe them." 
Jeremiah40:15 So Johanan went privately and approached Gedaliah, saying, “Please let me go and kill Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and no one will know who did it. Why should he assassinate you and scatter all the Israelites who have rallied around you? Why should the remnant of Judah perish?”" 
Jeremiah40:16 But Gedaliah replied to Johanan, “This is an order; don’t do it! For what you say about Ishmael is not true.”" 
Jeremiah41:1 But in the seventh month of that same year, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and grandson of Elishama, came to Mizpah with ten of his soldiers. He had been one of the king’s officials and was a member of the royal family. Ishmael and his men had a meal together with Gedaliah in Mizpah." 
Jeremiah41:2 Then suddenly Ishmael jumped up with his armed men and killed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, grandson of Shaphan. They killed Gedaliah, the man whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor in the land." 
Jeremiah41:3 Ishmael also struck down all the Israelites who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah and the Babylonian soldiers who happened to be there. 
Jeremiah41:4 The very next day, before anyone knew of it," 
Jeremiah41:5 eighty men arrived from the towns of Shechem, Shiloh, and Samaria. They were on their way to the temple to offer gifts of grain and incense to Yahweh. They had shaved off their beards, torn their clothes, and cut themselves because they were mourning." 
Jeremiah41:6 And Ishmael son of Nethaniah went from Mizpah to meet them at the town gate, pretending to be weeping as he came. He said to them, “Come in to see Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.”" 
Jeremiah41:7 But after they had entered the gates, Ishmael and the men with him slaughtered them and cast their bodies into a cistern." 
Jeremiah41:8 He spared ten of the men who said to Ishmael, “Don’t kill us,” because they offered to give him supplies of wheat, barley, olive oil, and honey they had hidden in a field." 
Jeremiah41:9 (Now he threw all the bodies, including Gedaliah’s, into the large well that had been dug by King Asa of Judah when he was invaded by King Baasha of Israel.)" 
Jeremiah41:10 Then Ishmael took captive the king’s daughters and all the people who were left at Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had committed to Gedaliah. Ishmael took them captive and crossed over the Jordan to join up with the Ammonites." 
Jeremiah41:11 But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the army officers with him heard of all the murderous evil that Ishmael had done. 
Jeremiah41:12 So they took all their men and went to fight against Ishmael the son of Nethaniah. They caught up with him at the great pool that is in Gibeon. 
Jeremiah41:13 And when all the captives who were with Ishmael saw Johanan and all the army officers, they rejoiced." 
Jeremiah41:14 So all Ishmael’s prisoners from Mizpah turned and ran to Johanan and the officers. 
Jeremiah41:15 But Ishmael escaped from Johanan with eight of his men and went to the Ammonites. 
Jeremiah41:16 So Johanan and all the army officers with him rescued all of Ishmael’s prisoners from Mizpah—the soldiers, women, children, and royal officials taken captive after Ishmael murdered Gedaliah. Johanan brought them all back alive from Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:17 However, they were afraid of the Babylonians because Ishmael had murdered Gedaliah, the king of Babylon’s governor of the land. So, they set out for Egypt in order to avoid the Babylonians. On the way, they stopped at Geruth Chimham, near Bethlehem." 
Jeremiah41:18  
Jeremiah42:1 Then Johanan son of Kareah and Jezaniah son of Hoshaiah, the military leaders, and all the people from the least to the greatest who were with him, approached" 
Jeremiah42:2 me and said, “Please listen to our humble plea and pray to Yahweh your God for us and for all this remnant. We were once many, but as you see, only a few of us remain." 
Jeremiah42:3 Pray that Yahweh your God may show us where to go and what we must do.” 
Jeremiah42:4 “Very well then,” I replied. “I will take your request to Yahweh your God and tell you whatever answer he gives me, and I will keep nothing back from you.”" 
Jeremiah42:5 Then they in their turn said to me, “May Yahweh be an honest and faithful witness against us if we do not obey what Yahweh your God speaks to us through you." 
Jeremiah42:6 Whether we like it or not, we will obey Yahweh our God to whom we have asked you to pray. We know that all will go well with us if we obey the voice of Yahweh our God.”" 
Jeremiah42:7 Ten days later, Yahweh gave me his answer." 
Jeremiah42:8 So I called together Johanan, the military leaders, and all the people who were with him without distinction" 
Jeremiah42:9 and said, “ Yahweh, God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your petition, says this:" 
Jeremiah42:10 ‘If you will remain in this land, I will build you up and not pull you down; I will firmly plant you and not uproot you. For I am filled with sorrow because of the disaster I had to bring upon you." 
Jeremiah42:11 Stop being afraid of the king of Babylon. Your fears are for nothing, for I am with you to save you and rescue you from his clutches,’ declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah42:12 ‘I will show you mercy, so that he has mercy toward you and will restore you to your land." 
Jeremiah42:13 But you must obey Yahweh your God and remain in this land.’ ” 
Jeremiah42:14 “ Do not think for a moment: ‘We must go live in Egypt, where we will see no warfare nor be hungry nor hear the sound of the trumpet.’" 
Jeremiah42:15 If you do, remnant of Judah, then listen to what Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies says to you: ‘If you are determined to go to Egypt and settle there, then this is what will happen." 
Jeremiah42:16 The sword you fear will overtake you, and the famine you dread will follow you to Egypt, and there you will die." 
Jeremiah42:17 Everyone who is determined to run to Egypt and settle there will die by sword, plague, and food shortages. Not one of you will survive the disasters I will send." 
Jeremiah42:18 Yes, I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: Just as my furious anger was poured out on the people of Jerusalem, so will my fury be poured out on you if you go to Egypt. You will be something that people will curse, and people will use your name when they pronounce a curse. You will be a horrifying sight, and people will make fun of you, and you will never see this place again.’ ”" 
Jeremiah42:19 Then I said to the remnant of Judah, “ Yahweh has told you, ‘Do not go into Egypt.’ So now, you should know very clearly that I am warning you" 
Jeremiah42:20 that you are in danger of your very lives. You deceived me when you sent me to Yahweh your God and said, ‘Pray for us to Yahweh our God; whatever he says, we will do it.’" 
Jeremiah42:21 Today I have told you exactly what he said, but you have not obeyed the voice of Yahweh your God in anything he sent me to tell you." 
Jeremiah42:22 So understand this clearly: you will die by sword, plague, and food shortages in Egypt, where you are determined to go.”" 
Jeremiah43:1 Jeremiah finished telling the crowd what the Lord had commanded him. 
Jeremiah43:2 Then Azariah son of Hoshaiah, Johanan son of Kareah, and other arrogant men said to Jeremiah, “You are lying. Yahweh our God did not tell you to say to us, ‘Do not go live in Egypt.’" 
Jeremiah43:3 It was Baruch son of Neriah who stirred you up against us to hand us over to the Babylonians to be either killed or deported to Babylon.” 
Jeremiah43:4 So Johanan, all the army officers, and all the people refused to obey Yahweh ’s command to stay in Judah." 
Jeremiah43:5 Instead, Johanan and his military leaders gathered up everyone left in Judah who had come back from all the nations where they had been scattered." 
Jeremiah43:6 They also led off the men, women, children, and the king’s daughters, too, and every single person that Nebuzaradan the field general had left under the charge of Gedaliah son of Ahikam. This included the prophet Jeremiah and Baruch son of Neriah." 
Jeremiah43:7 In total disobedience to the voice of Yahweh, they entered the land of Egypt and arrived at Tahpanhes." 
Jeremiah43:8 At Tahpanhes, Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah and said," 
Jeremiah43:9 “Take some large stones to the entrance of Pharaoh’s royal building in Tahpanhes. Bury the stones underneath the clay pavement and make sure the people of Judah are watching. 
Jeremiah43:10 Then say to them, ‘ Yahweh, God of Israel, says this: I will send for my servant Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. He will set up his throne on the exact spot where I buried these stones and spread his royal tent over them." 
Jeremiah43:11 When he comes to invade, he will defeat Egypt: “ ‘Those destined for the plague will die by the plague; those destined for captivity will go into captivity; those destined for the sword will die by the sword." 
Jeremiah43:12 “ ‘He will burn down the temples of the gods of Egypt and burn up their gods or take them prisoner. He will fold up the land of Egypt as a shepherd folds his cloak over himself. Then he will leave victorious without anyone standing in his way. 
Jeremiah43:13 He will break the obelisks of the temple of the sun in Egypt and will burn to the ground the temples of the gods of Egypt.’ ” 
Jeremiah44:1 Here is the word Yahweh gave Jeremiah concerning all the Israelites who were living in Egypt. They were in the cities of Migdol, Tahpanhes, and Memphis, and in the Pathros region." 
Jeremiah44:2 “ Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says this: You have seen with your own eyes all the disaster I have brought upon Jerusalem and all the towns of Judah. Look at them; now they are in ruins and left uninhabited." 
Jeremiah44:3 This disaster came to your people because of their evil deeds; they have worshiped foreign gods, which they have previously known nothing about nor have their ancestors. They have brought them offerings and provoked my anger." 
Jeremiah44:4 Yet I kept sending you my servants the prophets to plead with you to stop doing such detestable things, which I hate with a passion!" 
Jeremiah44:5 But you would not listen or pay attention, in order to turn from your wickedness and stop offering incense to other gods." 
Jeremiah44:6 So I let loose a firestorm of my anger, burning down the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem until nothing remained but a desolate wasteland, as it still is today." 
Jeremiah44:7 “And now I, Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander God of Angel Armies, ask you: Why do you insist on heading for another disaster, one that will destroy every man, woman, and child in Judah? Why should you leave yourselves without a remnant?" 
Jeremiah44:8 Why do you keep provoking my wrath by offering incense to Egyptian gods where you have settled? Are you bent on your own destruction? Don’t you realize you will become a curse and a laughingstock for all the nations of the earth? 
Jeremiah44:9 Have you forgotten all you have done in Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and your ancestors, your wives, your kings, and their wives?" 
Jeremiah44:10 Even now, you refuse to humble yourselves or be in awe of me. You have not followed my law or my teachings, which I set before you and your ancestors." 
Jeremiah44:11 “So, I, Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you that I am determined to bring disasters upon the people of Judah living in Egypt to eliminate you completely." 
Jeremiah44:12 I will make sure that the remnant of Judah who were determined to live in Egypt will die in Egypt. You will all be killed by the sword or die of starvation, from least to greatest. You will die such horrible deaths in war or from starvation that people of other nations will use you as an object of horror, a curse word, and mockery." 
Jeremiah44:13 I will punish those who settled in Egypt just as I punished Jerusalem: by sword, starvation, and plague." 
Jeremiah44:14 None of the remnant of Judah who have settled in Egypt will escape or survive to return to the country of Judah. Even though they want to go and live there again, only a few will escape and return.”" 
Jeremiah44:15 Then all the women there, along with all the men who were aware that their wives were sacrificing to other gods, answered me. There was a great crowd of people there listening to me, a large group of the people of Judah who lived in southern Egypt and were meeting together. They all answered me, saying:" 
Jeremiah44:16 “You claim to speak to us on behalf of Yahweh, but we refuse to listen to you whatsoever!" 
Jeremiah44:17 We will keep our vows to continue offering incense to our goddess, the Queen of Heaven, and pouring out drink offerings in her honor as we used to do. We will worship her in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem just as we, our ancestors, kings, and officers did in the past. We had plenty of food then, we prospered, and we suffered no disasters." 
Jeremiah44:18 But since we ceased offering incense to the Queen of Heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have been destitute, and our people have died either by sword or by starvation." 
Jeremiah44:19 And besides,” the women added, “when we offer incense to the Queen of Heaven, pour out drink offerings to her, and make cakes bearing her image, do you really think we do this without our husbands’ knowledge?”" 
Jeremiah44:20 Then I replied to all the men and women who had made their statement," 
Jeremiah44:21 “You and your ancestors, your kings and your leaders, and the people of the land offered sacrifices in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. But Yahweh knew about this and did not forget." 
Jeremiah44:22 He could not endure your wicked and disgusting practices any longer. He placed a curse on your land and turned it into a desert without inhabitants as it is today. 
Jeremiah44:23 This disaster has plainly overtaken you because you sinned and offered incense to other gods, refusing to listen to the voice of Yahweh or follow his law, his teachings, and his commandments.”" 
Jeremiah44:24 Then I said to the men and their wives, “Listen to the word of Yahweh, all you people of Judah living in Egypt." 
Jeremiah44:25 Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says to you, ‘Both you and your wives have said that you will fulfill the vows you made to give offerings to the Queen of Heaven and pour out drink offerings to her. You have said it, and you have done it. Very well, by all means, keep your promise and fulfill the vows you made!’" 
Jeremiah44:26 But listen to the word of Yahweh, all you people of Judah living in Egypt: ‘I swear by my mighty name, never again will I let any of you profane my name to make a vow by saying, “I swear by the living Lord Yahweh!”" 
Jeremiah44:27 Behold, instead of watching over you for good, I will watch for chances to harm you. Some of you will die in war, and others will die by famine until you are wiped out." 
Jeremiah44:28 Only a very few will escape the sword and will return to the land of Judah from Egypt. Then all the remnant of Judah who came to settle in Egypt will know whose word comes true, mine or theirs." 
Jeremiah44:29 “ ‘And here is the sign for you,’ Yahweh declares, ‘that I will keep my threats and I will punish you here:" 
Jeremiah44:30 Behold, I will hand over Egypt’s Pharaoh Hophra to his enemies who seek his life just as I handed over Zedekiah king of Judah to his enemy Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, who was determined to kill him.’ ”" 
Jeremiah45:1 In the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah, Yahweh gave me a word for Baruch son of Neriah while I was dictating to Baruch the message that he wrote down in a scroll." 
Jeremiah45:2 I said to him, “Baruch, this is what Yahweh God of Israel says about you." 
Jeremiah45:3 ‘You have been thinking: “These are horrible times for me. In addition to my pain, now Yahweh adds sorrow to my troubles. I am worn out with groaning, with relief nowhere in sight!” ’" 
Jeremiah45:4 But here is a message for you. Yahweh says to you: ‘That which I have built I am about to knock down, and what I have planted I will uproot over the entire land." 
Jeremiah45:5 Are you seeking personal greatness for yourself? Do not seek it, for I am now going to bring disaster on all humanity, but I will ensure that you escape with your life wherever you may go,’ declares Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah46:1 The words of Yahweh spoken through the prophet Jeremiah against the nations. 
Jeremiah46:2 This is a prophecy against the army of Pharaoh Neco of Egypt at Carchemish on the river Euphrates. King Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians defeated the Egyptians in the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim son of Josiah, king of Judah." 
Jeremiah46:3 Egypt’s commanders shout: “Shields up, both large and small! Onward to battle!" 
Jeremiah46:4 Horsemen, harness the horses and mount up! Prepare for battle and put on your helmets! Put on your armor and sharpen your spears!”" 
Jeremiah46:5 But Yahweh asks, “What do I see? The army breaking ranks and retreating? Their heroes flee for their lives, beaten, defeated, and terrified, not once looking back." 
Jeremiah46:6 Don’t let the swift ones get away. Stop the warriors from fleeing! In the north near the Euphrates River, they collapse, slain in battle." 
Jeremiah46:7 “Who is this that rises like the Nile, like a river in flood stage?" 
Jeremiah46:8 Why, it’s Egypt that rose like the Nile, like a river in flood stage. It is prideful Pharaoh who says, ‘I will rise and cover the earth. I will destroy cities and the people who live in them.’" 
Jeremiah46:9 Go ahead, Egypt, tell your horsemen—‘Charge!’ And your chariots—‘Ride forth!’ March out your mighty warriors, your hired soldiers from Ethiopia and Libya with shield in hand, your archers from Lydia skilled with the bow." 
Jeremiah46:10 For this is the day of Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, a day when he takes vengeance on his foes. The sword will devour until gorged, until drunk on their blood. For Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, is hosting a sacrificial feast in the land of the north, by the river Euphrates." 
Jeremiah46:11 Go ahead —try to find some healing medicine in Gilead, you frail, unfortunate people of Egypt! None of your medicine will do you any good." 
Jeremiah46:12 The nations have heard of your humiliation; all the world has heard your scream. For your warriors stumble over each other. No one escapes with his life.” 
Jeremiah46:13 This is the message Yahweh spoke to the prophet Jeremiah about Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon advancing to strike Egypt. 
Jeremiah46:14 “Tell this throughout Egypt; proclaim it in the cities of Migdol, Memphis, and Tahpanhes. Say to them, ‘Stand your ground, grab your weapons, for the war will destroy everything around you.’" 
Jeremiah46:15 Why has your mighty god Apis fled? Why did your bull-idol topple over? Yahweh, the true God, has overthrown him." 
Jeremiah46:16 Yahweh made many stumble and fall. Falling over each other, they say, ‘Get up! Go back to our own people, to our homeland, and get away from our enemies’ devastating sword!’" 
Jeremiah46:17 They have given a nickname to Pharaoh, king of Egypt— ‘The Loudmouth Who Missed His Opportunity!’" 
Jeremiah46:18 “As surely as I am the King, the Living God, whose name is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, I declare that there is one coming who will tower over you like Mount Tabor towers over the hills, and like Mount Carmel stands high above the sea." 
Jeremiah46:19 Get your bags packed to go into exile, fair people of Egypt. Memphis will be reduced to a desert, a desolate, uninhabited wasteland." 
Jeremiah46:20 Egypt was a lovely, splendid heifer, but a stinging fly from the north has settled on her." 
Jeremiah46:21 The mercenaries she had with her were like pampered, fattened calves, but they, too, turned and ran away; they failed to stand and fight. For the day has come when Yahweh will bring disaster and punishment to them." 
Jeremiah46:22 Egypt hisses like a snake crawling away, as her enemies advance in force and attack her with axes like woodsmen chopping down trees." 
Jeremiah46:23 They shall cut down her impenetrable forest,” declares Yahweh, “because they are more numerous than locusts; they are without number." 
Jeremiah46:24 Fair Egypt will be put to shame. I will give her over to the power of a nation from the north.” 
Jeremiah46:25 Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “Behold, I will punish Amon, the god of the Egyptians in the city of Thebes. Yes, I will punish Egypt, her gods, her rulers, Pharaoh, and those who put their trust in him." 
Jeremiah46:26 I will hand them over to those who seek their lives, to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and his commanders. But afterward, Egypt will be inhabited again as in the past,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah46:27 “Do not yield to fear, my servant Jacob. Israel, do not be alarmed. For I will rescue you and your descendants from that foreign land in which you are held captive. You will return and live in peace, safe and secure, with no one to make you afraid.”" 
Jeremiah46:28 Yahweh declares to you, “My servant Jacob, Do not be afraid, for I am with you and will save you. Someday, I will bring destruction to all the nations where I have driven you, but I will not destroy you. Let me assure you, I will discipline you but in moderation. I will not allow you to go entirely unpunished.”" 
Jeremiah47:1 Yahweh gave the prophet Jeremiah a message for the Philistines before Pharaoh attacked Gaza. 
Jeremiah47:2 “Look, enemies are gathering in the north, like a river rising. They are like a terrible flood that will cover the land of the Philistines and everything in it, the towns and everyone living in them. People will cry for help, and all the people of your land will cry and scream" 
Jeremiah47:3 when they hear the hoofbeats of the horses and the clatter of the war chariots, the rumbling of the wheels. In their panic, parents will forget to turn back for their children; their hands will fall limp at their sides." 
Jeremiah47:4 For the day has come for all the Philistines to be destroyed, for Tyre and Sidon to be stripped of every ally they have left. Yes, Yahweh is destroying the Philistines, the survivors from the Isle of Crete." 
Jeremiah47:5 The people of Gaza will mourn with great sorrow, for Ashkelon has been destroyed. You descendants of the giants, how long will you slash yourselves?" 
Jeremiah47:6 “Oh, sword in the hand of Yahweh, how long until you rest? Go back into your sheath, rest and be still!" 
Jeremiah47:7 Yet how can you rest when Yahweh has given you an assignment? I have ordered it to attack the people of Ashkelon and the seacoast.” 
Jeremiah48:1 Yahweh ’s message for the land of Moab. Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says to you: “Woe to the people of Nebo, for their city is destroyed! Kiriathaim is captured and totally humiliated. They have torn down her proud fortress and put it to shame." 
Jeremiah48:2 The fame of Moab is no more. In Heshbon, the enemy plotted Moab’s doom: ‘Come, let’s wipe her off the map.’ For indeed, my sword will leave only silence in your town named Silent." 
Jeremiah48:3 Listen, the people of Horonaim cry out: ‘Destruction and violence!’" 
Jeremiah48:4 Moab is shattered, and her little ones cry out in distress." 
Jeremiah48:5 Yes, they are weeping all the way up to Luhith. Yes, all the way down from Horonaim they hear a distressful, painful cry." 
Jeremiah48:6 The people of Moab shout, ‘Flee for your lives and be like a lonely shrub in the desert.’" 
Jeremiah48:7 Moab, you put your faith in your works and your wealth. That is why you, too, will be conquered. Your god Chemosh will go into captivity, along with his priests and officials." 
Jeremiah48:8 The destroyer will attack every city; not one will escape. This enemy will ruin both the valleys and the plains, just as Yahweh has said." 
Jeremiah48:9 Give Moab wings so she can fly away. Her cities will be empty and desolate with no one living in them. 
Jeremiah48:10 “Cursed be the one who does the work of Yahweh halfheartedly, and cursed be the one who withholds his sword from blood." 
Jeremiah48:11 Moab has always lived securely and has never been taken into exile. Moab is like wine left to settle undisturbed, and never poured from jar to jar. It still has a good flavor, and its taste has never changed.”" 
Jeremiah48:12 But Yahweh declares, “The days are coming when I will send enemies who will pour her out like wine. They will empty her wine jar and smash it to pieces." 
Jeremiah48:13 Then Moab will be ashamed of their god Chemosh just as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, the god who was once their confidence." 
Jeremiah48:14 “How, then, can you say, ‘We are heroes of Moab and mighty men of war’?" 
Jeremiah48:15 The destroyer has attacked the cities and destroyed Moab, and the best of her young men have gone down to the slaughter,” declares King Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah48:16 “The fall of Moab is at hand, and soon she will be destroyed." 
Jeremiah48:17 Grieve for her, all you neighboring countries and all you who know her fame. How shattered is its rule, that mighty rod, that splendid scepter!" 
Jeremiah48:18 You who live in Fair Dibon, come down from your prideful place and sit in the dust. For the destroyer of Moab has come up against you and has destroyed your fortresses." 
Jeremiah48:19 You who live in Aroer, stand at the side of the road and wait. Ask the fleeing men and women: ‘What has happened?’" 
Jeremiah48:20 They answer, ‘Moab is humiliated. Weep and cry for Moab, for she has been defeated!’ Announce the news beside the Arnon River: ‘Moab is devastated.’" 
Jeremiah48:21 “ Yahweh has judged the cities of the plateau and has punished them. Those cities include Holon, Jahzah, Mephaath," 
Jeremiah48:22 Dibon, Nebo, Beth Diblathaim," 
Jeremiah48:23 Kiriathaim, Beth Gamul, Beth Meon," 
Jeremiah48:24 Kerioth, and Bozrah. He has punished all the cities of Moab, far and near.”" 
Jeremiah48:25 Yahweh declares: “All the strength of Moab is cut off, and her power is broken.”" 
Jeremiah48:26 “Make Moab drink from this cup until drunk because she exalted herself against Yahweh. Drunken Moab will wallow in her own vomit until she makes the world laugh at her. 
Jeremiah48:27 And they will say, ‘Didn’t you make fun of Israel in the past? Didn’t you say Israel was nothing but crooks? Whenever you spoke of her, didn’t you shake your head in disgust?’" 
Jeremiah48:28 “People of Moab, flee your cities and hide in the rocks. Be like doves that make their nests among the cliffs." 
Jeremiah48:29 Everyone knows about the pride of Moab. I have heard about how very proud, arrogant, and lofty she is. How highly she thinks of herself!" 
Jeremiah48:30 But I, Yahweh, know of her insolent defiance. Her boasts are empty and accomplish nothing.”" 
Jeremiah48:31 Therefore I wail for Moab; I cry out for the whole country, and I mourn for the people of Kir Hareseth." 
Jeremiah48:32 I will weep for you more than I wept for Jazer, O vine of Sibmah! Your branches passed over the Dead Sea and spread to the sea of Jazer. An enemy has destroyed your figs and your grapes." 
Jeremiah48:33 “The people no longer experience joy and gladness in the fruitful land of Moab; for I have stopped the people from making wine. They are no longer shouting happily as they tread the grapes, for no wine is coming out of the wine presses. People are indeed shouting but not for joy." 
Jeremiah48:34 “The loud cries of Heshbon are heard as far as Elealeh and Jahaz. Cries from Zoar are heard in Horonaim and Eglath Shelishiyah. The brook of Nimrim has dried up. 
Jeremiah48:35 I will eliminate Moab’s idolaters, those who offer sacrifices in the high place and make offerings to their god,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah48:36 Therefore, my heart sobs for Moab like a mournful flute. My heart moans as a sad funeral song played on a flute for the people of Kir Hareseth. All the wealth they accumulated has disappeared." 
Jeremiah48:37 Every head is shaved, and every beard is cut off as a sign of mourning. And around the waist is sackcloth, on all the hands are gashes." 
Jeremiah48:38 “On all the housetops of Moab and in the streets, people are mourning because I have broken Moab like a discarded vessel for which no one cares,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah48:39 How it is broken! How they wail! How Moab has turned her back in disgrace! All the surrounding nations find Moab a laughingstock and a thing of horror. 
Jeremiah48:40 For Yahweh says: “Look, an enemy will swoop down and attack Moab with no warning, like an eagle diving from the sky." 
Jeremiah48:41 The enemy will capture the cities and the fortresses of Kerioth. On that day, Moab’s warriors will be as frightened as a woman in her birth pains." 
Jeremiah48:42 Moab will be destroyed, wiped from the earth, because she exalted herself against Yahweh.”" 
Jeremiah48:43 For Yahweh declares, “Terror, pit, and a snare are waiting for you, people of Moab!" 
Jeremiah48:44 The one who flees from the terror will fall into the pit, and the one who climbs out of the pit will be caught in the snare.” For Yahweh declares, “I will bring upon Moab the year of her punishment." 
Jeremiah48:45 In Heshbon’s shelter, exhausted refugees are helpless, for fire came out from Heshbon, a flame from the house of Sihon. It has burned everything from the frontiers to the mountain heights of those war-loving people, the Moabites." 
Jeremiah48:46 Woe to you, O Moab! The people who worshiped Chemosh are gone, for your sons have been taken captive and your daughters into exile." 
Jeremiah48:47 Yet in the days to come, I will bring Moab’s captives home,” declares Yahweh. This ends Jeremiah’s prophecy concerning Moab." 
Jeremiah49:1 Yahweh says to the Ammonites: “Has Israel no sons? Is there no one to inherit her land? What right did your god Molech have to take the territory of Gad, and the people of Molech to occupy its towns?" 
Jeremiah49:2 Therefore, I say to you, The days are coming when I will cause the Ammonites of Rabbah to hear the battle cries of their attackers. I will turn her into a heap of ruins and her surrounding villages will be set on fire. Then Israel will drive out those who drove her out. I, Yahweh, affirm it!" 
Jeremiah49:3 Weep and wail, Heshbon, for Ai has been destroyed! Shriek, women of Rabbah! Put on sackcloth and mourn; run back and forth in confusion! For enemies will lead Molech away and take him captive with all his priests and servants." 
Jeremiah49:4 Why do you glory in your ebbing strength, you rebellious ones? For you trust in your great wealth and say, ‘Who will dare to attack me?’" 
Jeremiah49:5 Look, I will bring terror upon you,” says Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “Terror will come from every side; everyone will run away, and no one will be there to bring them back together." 
Jeremiah49:6 But I affirm to you, I will one day bring back the captive Ammonites.”" 
Jeremiah49:7 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says to Edom: “Is there no wise person left in Teman? Have all the advisers run out of common sense? Has all their wisdom vanished?" 
Jeremiah49:8 People of Dedan, turn and run! Go into hiding, for I will bring ruin on Esau when my time to punish him has come." 
Jeremiah49:9 People who harvest grapes always leave some for the poor. Thieves who break in at night only take what they want. 
Jeremiah49:10 However, I have taken everything from Esau’s descendants. I have uncovered his hiding places so that he can hide no longer. All the Edomites are ruined, along with their relatives and neighbors, with no one left to say," 
Jeremiah49:11 ‘Leave your orphans, I’ll take care of them; let your widows depend on me!’ ”" 
Jeremiah49:12 For Yahweh says, “Even those nations that don’t deserve to be punished must drink from the cup filled with my anger. So how do you hope to escape? You will not go unpunished but will certainly have to drink from that same cup." 
Jeremiah49:13 For I have sworn by my great name, Yahweh, that your capital city of Bozrah and all its surrounding villages will become nothing but desert ruins. Bozrah will be a laughingstock, a curse, and an object of horror forever.”" 
Jeremiah49:14 I have received a word from Yahweh. A messenger has been sent to tell the nations: “Assemble your armies for battle and get ready to attack Edom.” 
Jeremiah49:15 “Behold, I will make you the least of nations; all the world will despise you." 
Jeremiah49:16 Your proud heart has deceived you. Your pride rests in thinking everyone is afraid of you. But I, Yahweh, say to you whose home is in the rocky cliffs, who live high on the mountaintop, though you make your nest as high as the eagle’s, I will topple you from your high place!" 
Jeremiah49:17 “I will make Edom an object of horror and astonishment; everyone who passes by it will be appalled and will make insulting remarks because of all its disasters! 
Jeremiah49:18 I, Yahweh, say to you: As Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring towns were destroyed and no one will live there again, not one person will ever settle in Edom again." 
Jeremiah49:19 “Behold, just as a lion suddenly comes out of the thickets of the Jordan to a rich pastureland, I will suddenly make the people of Edom run away. And I will appoint a leader that I choose. For who can be compared to me? Who is able to challenge me? Name for me the ruler who can stand up to me." 
Jeremiah49:20 So now listen to the plans that I have against you, Edom. Listen to what I have in store for the people of Teman. Like little lambs, your children will be dragged away before your own eyes, and everyone will be horrified!" 
Jeremiah49:21 The earth will shudder at the sound of their downfall while the echoes of their cry reach to the Red Sea. 
Jeremiah49:22 Look, an enemy will swoop down on Bozrah and attack Edom without warning, like an eagle diving from the sky. The enemy will capture the cities and the fortresses. And on that day Edom’s warriors will be as frightened as a woman in her birth pains.”" 
Jeremiah49:23 Yahweh says to Damascus: “ Your neighboring cities of Hamath and Arpad are humiliated, for they have heard the bad news. They are shaken with anxiety like the troubled sea that cannot be calmed." 
Jeremiah49:24 The people of Damascus are in a panic. They have lost their courage and have turned to run. Anguish and travail have taken hold of them, like a woman in labor." 
Jeremiah49:25 You were once famous, and I was pleased with you, but now I warn you, ‘Escape while you can!’" 
Jeremiah49:26 Nevertheless, I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: On that day, the enemy will kill your young men in the streets, and all your warriors will perish." 
Jeremiah49:27 I will light a fire inside the walls of Damascus, to devour the palaces of Ben-Hadad.”" 
Jeremiah49:28 Yahweh says to the tribe of Kedar and the areas controlled by Hazor, all conquered by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon: “Rise up! Advance to Kedar, destroy the Arab tribes of the east." 
Jeremiah49:29 Capture their tents, flocks, tent curtains, camels, and all their gear. Tell the people there is terror on every side!”" 
Jeremiah49:30 Yahweh says to the people of Hazor: “Run away and hide in caves as fast as you can, for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has plans to attack you; he has a scheme in mind to defeat you." 
Jeremiah49:31 “Rise up! March on an unsuspecting people who feel safe and secure,” says Yahweh. “They are complacent, living off by themselves without walls or gates." 
Jeremiah49:32 Take all their camels and many sheep as the spoils of war. Those who live in the edges of the desert I will scatter to the four winds. And I, Yahweh, will bring disaster on them from every side." 
Jeremiah49:33 Hazor will become desolate, the haunt of jackals, an empty, uninhabited desert.”" 
Jeremiah49:34 In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, gave me a word for the land of Elam. “Behold, I will break the strength of Elam’s archers, the boast of their might." 
Jeremiah49:35  
Jeremiah49:36 I will bring storms of judgment from everywhere to break out against them. I will scatter them to the four winds. And there will not be a single nation that will not take you captive. 
Jeremiah49:37 Elamites! I will shatter your confidence before your enemies, who are determined to kill you. In my burning anger, I, Yahweh, will bring disaster on you and pursue you with the sword until I have eliminated you all." 
Jeremiah49:38 Then I, Yahweh, will destroy your kings and leaders and establish my rule in Elam." 
Jeremiah49:39 Then later on, I will bring your captives back,” says Yahweh." 
Jeremiah50:1 Yahweh spoke to me this prophecy against mighty Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans:" 
Jeremiah50:2 “Tell the nations the news; proclaim it everywhere. Publicize it far and wide; make no secret of it, and declare: ‘Babylon has fallen! Her god Marduk is greatly humiliated, and his power is broken. Her idols are disgraced; her filthy images are shattered.’" 
Jeremiah50:3 For a nation is attacking Babylon from the north that will reduce her nation to a desert. People and animals will flee, and no one will inhabit it.”" 
Jeremiah50:4 Yahweh says: “When that day comes the people of Israel and the people of Judah will go out together with tears streaming down their cheeks to seek Yahweh their God. 
Jeremiah50:5 They will ask the way to Zion and turn their faces toward her, saying to one another, ‘Come, let us bind our hearts to Yahweh in an eternal covenant, which we will never break.’" 
Jeremiah50:6 “My people are like lost sheep; their shepherds led them astray. They are lost, wandering about in the mountains. They went from mountain to hill, forgetting their resting place." 
Jeremiah50:7 Whoever came across them took advantage of them. Their enemies said, ‘We are not to blame, for they have sinned against Yahweh, the True Home of Justice, against Yahweh, the Living Hope of their ancestors.’" 
Jeremiah50:8 “ My people, flee Babylon and run from the land of the Chaldeans. Be the first ones to leave!" 
Jeremiah50:9 For listen, I am stirring up trouble out of the north against Babylon, and raising up a coalition of mighty nations to attack her. They will take up battle positions against her and conquer her. Their arrows are like a skilled soldier who kills and never returns empty-handed." 
Jeremiah50:10 I, Yahweh, declare that Chaldea will be plundered, and all who plunder her will be satisfied.”" 
Jeremiah50:11 “ I, Yahweh, say to the people of Babylon: You rejoiced when you robbed my people, my inheritance. You had a good time, making more noise than horses neighing and frolicking like playful heifers at the time of the threshing of grain." 
Jeremiah50:12 But your motherland is covered with shame, and the city that nurtured you like a mother is totally disgraced. Now, she is the least of nations, nothing but a desert, a parched wasteland." 
Jeremiah50:13 Because of Yahweh ’s anger, Babylon will become desolate and uninhabited forever. Everyone who passes by will be shocked to see what has happened and will hiss out their scorn." 
Jeremiah50:14 Archers! Take your positions against Babylon and surround her. Shoot at her! Empty your quiver, for she has sinned against Yahweh." 
Jeremiah50:15 Raise the war cry against her from all sides. She surrenders! The attackers have broken down her fortifications and walls. This is Yahweh ’s vengeance! Take revenge on her. Do to them what they did to others. 
Jeremiah50:16 Uproot from Babylon those who plant fields and harvest crops. They have all fled from the attacking army and returned to their homelands.” 
Jeremiah50:17 “Israel was like straying lambs, driven away and scattered by lions. “First, the king of Assyria devoured them, and now, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has gnawed their bones." 
Jeremiah50:18 So I, Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, say this: Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his nation as I punished the king of Assyria." 
Jeremiah50:19 “I will bring Israel back to her own land. The people will be like sheep eating their fill on Mount Carmel, in Bashan, in the hill country of Ephraim, and in Gilead. They will all be satisfied." 
Jeremiah50:20 I, Yahweh, declare that at that time, you may look for Israel’s guilt, but it will disappear, you may search for Judah’s sins, but you will not find them, for I will forgive the remnant whose lives I have spared.”" 
Jeremiah50:21 Yahweh says: “Now, carry out my instructions to the letter. Attack the land of Merathaim and those who live in Pekod! Kill them and destroy everything they leave behind." 
Jeremiah50:22 For the noise of battle fills the land, and already great destruction is taking place." 
Jeremiah50:23 Babylon, you hammered the whole world to pieces, but now your hammer is broken and shattered to pieces. Now you are an object of horror to the nations." 
Jeremiah50:24 You defied me and fought against me, Babylon, so I laid a trap for you. You were caught before you knew it!" 
Jeremiah50:25 I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, had a work to do in Babylon, So, I opened my armory and brought out the mighty weapons of my wrath." 
Jeremiah50:26 Attack it from every side! Open her granaries. Pile her up like heaps of grain; curse her with destruction until nothing is left of her. 
Jeremiah50:27 Slaughter all her warriors; lead them away as cattle to be slaughtered. Woe to them, for their day of reckoning has come, their time for being punished is here." 
Jeremiah50:28 Listen! Fugitives and refugees from the country of Babylon arrive in Zion, proclaiming on Mount Zion how Yahweh our God has punished the Babylonians for destroying his temple!”" 
Jeremiah50:29 “Assemble the archers and attack Babylon! Encamp around her and leave no way of escape. Treat her as she has treated others and repay her for all she has done, for she was arrogant and defiant to Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel." 
Jeremiah50:30 “I, Yahweh, say to you: On that day, your young men will fall in the streets, and all your warriors will perish." 
Jeremiah50:31 I am against you, O arrogant one! I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, decree: Your day of reckoning has now come, the time for me to punish you is here." 
Jeremiah50:32 Your proud, arrogant city will stumble and fall with no one to lift her up. I will set the cities of Babylon on fire, and everything around you will go up in flames.”" 
Jeremiah50:33 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “My people, Israel and Judah, are oppressed, You hold them fast and will not let them go." 
Jeremiah50:34 But their Redeemer is powerful! My name is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. I will take up their cause and rescue them. I will give the nation rest but make the people of Babylon tremble." 
Jeremiah50:35 “I, Yahweh, have decreed war against the Chaldeans, against the people of Babylon, and against her mighty rulers and advisers." 
Jeremiah50:36 I have decreed war against her false prophets. May they lose their wits! I have decreed war against her warriors; let them panic. 
Jeremiah50:37 War against her horses, her chariots, and the foreign troops among them! Their mighty warriors will become frightened like ordinary citizens. May the war result in all their treasure being plundered!" 
Jeremiah50:38 May a drought dry up all their rivers! For it is a country full of idols, and their terrors make them delirious." 
Jeremiah50:39 Demons and dark spirits dwell in Babylon, and ostriches make their home there. For all generations, no one will live there again." 
Jeremiah50:40 As Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring towns were destroyed and left uninhabited, not one person will ever settle in Babylon again, for I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Jeremiah50:41 “Look! They’re coming! Warriors approach from the north. From the remote parts of the earth, great nations and mighty kings are preparing for war." 
Jeremiah50:42 Armed with bows and scimitars, they are merciless and without compassion. The sound of their armies riding their horses is like the roaring sea. The cavalry is in battle formation and ready to attack you, Fair Babylon." 
Jeremiah50:43 The king of Babylon heard the news, and his strength melted away. Anguish seized him, like the pain of a woman in labor." 
Jeremiah50:44 “Behold, like a lion suddenly comes out of the jungle of the Jordan to a rich pastureland, I will suddenly make the people of Babylon run away, and I will appoint a leader that I choose. For who can be compared to me? Who is able to challenge me? Name the ruler who can stand up to me." 
Jeremiah50:45 So now, listen to the plans that I have against you, Babylon. Listen to what I have in store for the land of the Chaldeans. Like little lambs, your children will be dragged away before your own eyes, and everyone will be horrified!" 
Jeremiah50:46 The earth will shudder at the sound of Babylon’s downfall as their cry echoes to the nations.” 
Jeremiah51:1 Yahweh says, “I will stir up the spirit of a destroyer to fight against Babylon and the heart of my enemies." 
Jeremiah51:2 I will bring foreigners against Babylon to winnow her and plunder her country. They will attack her on every side in the day of her disaster. 
Jeremiah51:3 Shoot down all their archers and all their proud warriors dressed in armor. Do not spare her soldiers! Destroy her entire army! 
Jeremiah51:4 The slaughtered will fall throughout the land of the Chaldeans. They will be wounded and die in their city streets. 
Jeremiah51:5 Remember, your God, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has not forsaken Israel and Judah even though the land is awash with their sins against me, the Holy One of Israel." 
Jeremiah51:6 Flee from Babylon! Save your lives! Don’t you perish when I punish her for her guilt; the time of revenge is here. Now Yahweh will pay her back for what she has done. 
Jeremiah51:7 Babylon was like a golden cup in Yahweh ’s hand; she made the whole world drunk. The nations drank her wine and then went mad. 
Jeremiah51:8 Suddenly the cup of Babylon falls to the ground and is shattered. Wail for her! Get medicine for her wounds; perhaps she can be cured. 
Jeremiah51:9 They said, ‘We tried to heal Babylon but failed. She can’t be healed, so let’s each go to our own country. For her judgment has reached up to heaven and rises to the very clouds." 
Jeremiah51:10 Yahweh has judged in our favor. Come, let us tell the news in Zion, all the wonders that Yahweh our God has done!’ ”" 
Jeremiah51:11 Yahweh has stirred up a spirit of hostility in the king of the Medes because Yahweh ’s plan is to destroy Babylon. This is Yahweh ’s revenge for destroying his temple. “Sharpen the arrows; fill up your quivers! 
Jeremiah51:12 Give the signal to attack Babylon’s walls! Post sentries and reinforce the guards! Prepare a surprise attack! Yahweh has done what he said he would do to the people of Babylon. 
Jeremiah51:13 You who are enthroned beside many rivers and canals and are rich in treasures, your end has come. The thread of your life is cut." 
Jeremiah51:14 For I have sworn by my great name, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, that I will fill your land with warriors as a swarm of locusts, and they will raise up the victory shout over you.”" 
Jeremiah51:15 Yahweh made the earth by his glorious power and firmly established it by his great wisdom. His skill stretched out the sky. 
Jeremiah51:16 When he speaks, a roar is released in the waters of heaven. Clouds rise from the far-off horizons. He unleashes on the earth from his storehouses, rain, lightning bolts, and stormy winds." 
Jeremiah51:17 Idolaters are senseless and know so little. Idol-makers are shamed by what they make since their idols are nothing but lifeless lies. 
Jeremiah51:18 They are worthless—nothing but a joke! When Yahweh comes to punish them, they will perish." 
Jeremiah51:19 Yahweh, the Riches of Jacob, you are nothing like these. He created the universe and has chosen Israel to be his inheritance. Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, is his name!" 
Jeremiah51:20 “You were my war club, my battle club. I used you to crush nations and overthrow kingdoms." 
Jeremiah51:21 With you I defeated horses and riders, and with you I broke chariots and their riders in pieces." 
Jeremiah51:22 With you I shattered men and women, with you I conquered old and young, and with you I triumphed over young men and girls." 
Jeremiah51:23 With you I overpowered shepherds and flocks, with you I devastated plowmen and animals that pull the plow, and with you I crushed governors and officials.”" 
Jeremiah51:24 “But now,” Yahweh says, “you will see with your own eyes how I repay you, Babylon and the Chaldeans, for all the wrongs you have done to Zion." 
Jeremiah51:25 I have become your enemy,” says Yahweh, “O mountain of destruction, destroyer of the whole world! I will unleash my power against you, send you tumbling to the ground, and turn you into a mountain of soot and ashes." 
Jeremiah51:26 I, Yahweh, declare: After I am through with you, people will not be able to find any among you to rebuild you, not one foundation stone or cornerstone. You will lie desolate forever.”" 
Jeremiah51:27 “Raise up a signal flag throughout the world; sound the war trumpet among the nations! Prepare the nations to attack her! Assemble the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, Ashkenaz to make war against her. Appoint a commanding officer to lead her enemies in battle; send multitudes of horsemen like swarms of locusts." 
Jeremiah51:28 Prepare the kings of Media, her governors, all her officials, and all the lands they rule to come make war against Babylon.”" 
Jeremiah51:29 Then, when Yahweh executed his plan against Babylon, the earth trembled and convulsed. He determined to make Babylon an uninhabited desert." 
Jeremiah51:30 Babylon’s warriors had enough of fighting, so they stayed inside their forts. With their courage melted away, they have been left like ordinary civilians. Their city gates have been broken through, and her houses are on fire." 
Jeremiah51:31 Courier after courier, messenger after messenger, runs to inform the king of Babylon: One says, “Your city has been taken from every side.”" 
Jeremiah51:32 Another says, “The river crossings have been overrun.” And another, “The thickets and reed marshes have all been burned.” And yet another one says, “All your fighting men are gripped with panic.”" 
Jeremiah51:33 For Yahweh, the God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, says to you: “When people trample down the threshing place, the time of threshing is not far off. The time to harvest Fair Babylon is almost here!”" 
Jeremiah51:34 Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, devoured us, chewed us up, and consumed us like a hungry man consumes a meal. Like a monster he swallowed us whole, filled his belly with our delicacies and then expelled us." 
Jeremiah51:35 Let the people of Zion say, “May the violence done to our people fall upon Babylon!” Let Jerusalem say, “May the Chaldeans pay for the crime of shedding my blood!”" 
Jeremiah51:36 This is what Yahweh says: “Look, I am taking up your cause to make sure you are avenged. I will dry up her water source and make her rivers run dry." 
Jeremiah51:37 Babylon will be reduced to a pile of ruins, the haunt of jackals, a thing of horror and scorn, a place where no one lives." 
Jeremiah51:38 Like lions, the Babylonians all roar over their prey; they growl like lions’ cubs." 
Jeremiah51:39 Are they ready to feast? I will prepare them a drink that will make them drunk. They will drink themselves tipsy and fall into an everlasting sleep,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:40 “I will lead these proud lions down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams and goats to be sacrificed.”" 
Jeremiah51:41 “What! Has the great city of Babylon been taken? Has the pride of the whole world been seized? Babylon has become an object of horror throughout the nations. 
Jeremiah51:42 The sea has risen over Babylon; she sinks beneath its crashing waves. 
Jeremiah51:43 Her nearby towns have become desolate, a parched land, a desert where no one lives and where nobody goes." 
Jeremiah51:44 I will punish Bel, the god of Babylon, and make him give back what he has stolen. The people will no longer stream to him to bring him their offering. The walls of Babylon have fallen.”" 
Jeremiah51:45 “Leave Babylon behind, my people. Each of you, save your lives from Yahweh ’s furious anger." 
Jeremiah51:46 But make sure that you are not discouraged. Do not worry about the many conspiracy theories that are being circulated throughout the country. For every year a different rumor spreads— rumors of violence, rumors of one king fighting another." 
Jeremiah51:47 “Behold, the days are coming when I will punish Babylon’s ‘gods.’ Her entire country will be humiliated, with all her slaughtered lying in the streets." 
Jeremiah51:48 Creation itself will sing for joy over Babylon’s demise. Destroyers from the north will attack her,” declares Yahweh." 
Jeremiah51:49 “For people throughout the world have been slain by Babylon. And now, because of Israel’s slaughtered ones, Babylon will fall.”" 
Jeremiah51:50 “You who have escaped with your life, do not wait to leave Babylon behind. Remember Yahweh your God in a distant land, and let your thoughts turn to beautiful Jerusalem.”" 
Jeremiah51:51 “We were mocked and ashamed; we were covered with disgrace because foreigners had entered the temple of Yahweh ’s holy places.” 
Jeremiah51:52 Yahweh declares, “Behold, the days are coming when I will punish Babylon’s ‘gods,’ and throughout the land, wounded people will be groaning in pain." 
Jeremiah51:53 I, Yahweh, say, even if Babylon should climb up to the sky, and entrench herself in an inaccessible height, I would still call her enemies to destroy her.”" 
Jeremiah51:54 “Listen! The voice of a shout from Babylon. It is a noise of great destruction coming from the country of the Chaldeans. 
Jeremiah51:55 I am attacking Babylon and will destroy her and will silence the noise of the city. The enemy armies rush in like roaring waves and attack with shouts and battle cries. 
Jeremiah51:56 An enemy has come to destroy Babylon. They have captured Babylon’s soldiers and broken their bows into pieces. For Yahweh is a God of recompense; he never fails to repay. 
Jeremiah51:57 I will make her soldiers and all her leaders drunk, including the advisers, officials, and military commanders. They will fall into an everlasting sleep, never to wake again,” declares the King, whose name is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah51:58 “The attacking army will demolish the massive walls protecting Babylon and burn down the lofty gates of the city. The nations wear themselves out to no avail; they will see the flames destroy what they’ve done,” declares Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Jeremiah51:59 Now Jeremiah had written all these prophecies of Babylon’s doom on a scroll. In the fourth year of the reign of Zedekiah, the king of Judah, the king traveled to Babylonia, accompanied by his personal attendant, Seraiah son of Neriah and grandson of Mahseiah. Jeremiah gave Seraiah the scroll" 
Jeremiah51:60  
Jeremiah51:61 together with this command: “When you arrive in Babylon, be sure to read all the prophecies written on this scroll to all the people." 
Jeremiah51:62 Afterward, pray this prayer: ‘O  Yahweh, you have promised to destroy this place so that no one will live here ever again, neither human nor animal. You said it will be desolate forever.’" 
Jeremiah51:63 “Then, Seraiah, when you finish reading this book to the people, tie a heavy stone to it and throw it into the middle of the Euphrates River" 
Jeremiah51:64 with these words: ‘Just as this scroll will sink, so Babylon will sink to the depths, never to rise again from the disaster I am going to bring on her.’ ” This ends Jeremiah’s writings." 
Jeremiah52:1 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king. He reigned for eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal daughter of Jeremiah, of Libnah." 
Jeremiah52:2 He did what was displeasing in the sight of Yahweh, just as King Jehoiakim had done." 
Jeremiah52:3 Yahweh became so angry with the people of Jerusalem and Judah that he banished them from the land. Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. 
Jeremiah52:4 In the ninth year of Zedekiah’s reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon attacked Jerusalem with his entire army and laid siege to it." 
Jeremiah52:5 After the city had been surrounded for a year and half, they broke through the city walls." 
Jeremiah52:6 On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was so severe in the city that there was nothing left to eat." 
Jeremiah52:7 That was when the Babylonians broke through the city wall. That same night, Zedekiah and his soldiers tried to escape through the gate between the two walls near the royal garden even though they knew the enemy had the city surrounded. They fled toward the Jordan Valley," 
Jeremiah52:8 but the Babylonians pursued King Zedekiah and overtook him in the plains of Jericho. All his army deserted him there and fled. 
Jeremiah52:9 The Babylonians captured him and brought him to King Nebuchadnezzar, who was based at the town of Riblah in the territory of Hamath, where he passed sentence on Zedekiah." 
Jeremiah52:10 Nebuchadnezzar had Zedekiah’s sons slaughtered at Riblah, and Zedekiah was forced to watch their execution. The king of Babylon also executed all the officials of Judah." 
Jeremiah52:11 Then he put out Zedekiah’s eyes and bound him with chains. Then they dragged him off blinded to distant Babylon and put him in prison till the day of his death. 
Jeremiah52:12 In the nineteenth year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylon, on the tenth day of the fifth month of that year, the field general Nebuzaradan, who served the king, entered Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah52:13 He burned down the temple of Yahweh, the royal palace, and all the homes of the wealthy of Jerusalem, and other buildings went up in flames." 
Jeremiah52:14 The Babylonians under the command of Nebuzaradan demolished all the walls surrounding Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah52:15 Nebuzaradan, the field general, took as prisoners some of the poor who were left behind in Jerusalem, together with the skilled workers and the deserters who had gone over to him." 
Jeremiah52:16 But he also left behind some of the extremely poor people in the land of Judah. They owned nothing, but he gave them vineyards and fields of their own." 
Jeremiah52:17 The Babylonians took everything of value from the temple of Yahweh. They smashed the bronze pillars and confiscated the wheeled stands and the bronze laver. Everything made of bronze they carried off to Babylon. 
Jeremiah52:18 They also took the ash pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the sprinkling bowls, the incense bowls, and all the bronze vessels that had been used in worship." 
Jeremiah52:19 The field general took away every small bowl, the censers, the sprinkling bowls, the ash containers, the lampstands, the ladles, and the saucers —everything that was made of gold or silver." 
Jeremiah52:20 But the two pillars, the one sea and the twelve bronze bulls on their movable stands, which King Solomon had made for the temple of Yahweh, were too heavy to weigh." 
Jeremiah52:21 Both pillars were identical, and each stood eighteen cubits high. Their circumference was twelve cubits, and they were four fingers thick and hollow inside." 
Jeremiah52:22 On top of each column was a large section of bronze; its height was over five cubits, and all around it were filigree and pomegranates, all in bronze." 
Jeremiah52:23 There was a total of one hundred pomegranates on the filigree all around, and ninety-six were visible from the ground." 
Jeremiah52:24 Nebuzaradan, the field general, arrested Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the priest next in rank, and other temple officials." 
Jeremiah52:24 Nebuzaradan, the field general, arrested Seraiah the chief priest, Zephaniah the priest next in rank, and other temple officials." 
Jeremiah52:25 In the city he arrested an official who was in command of the fighting men, seven of the king’s closest associates, who were discovered in the city, the secretary to the army commander responsible for mustering the troops, and sixty men of distinction." 
Jeremiah52:26 The field general took these men and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
Jeremiah52:27 At Riblah, in the territory of Hamath, the king of Babylon had them executed. And so, the people of Judah were taken into exile." 
Jeremiah52:28 Here is the record of the number of those deported by Nebuchadnezzar in the seventh year of his reign: 3,023 men from Judah." 
Jeremiah52:29 In the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign, he deported 832 persons from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah52:30 In the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign, Nebuzaradan, the field general, deported 745 Judeans. In all, 4,600 persons were deported." 
Jeremiah52:31 Thirty-seven years after King Jehoiachin was taken away as a prisoner, on the twenty-fifth day of the twelfth month of that year, King Evil-merodach of Babylon showed kindness to Jehoiachin by releasing him from prison. This was in Evil-merodach’s first year as king." 
Jeremiah52:32 The king of Babylon treated Jehoiachin kindly and gave him a position of honor above the other kings. 
Jeremiah52:33 So Jehoiachin laid aside his prison clothes and, for the rest of his life, always ate at the king’s table." 
Jeremiah52:34 At the command of the king of Babylon, everything that he needed was given to him each day until his death." 
Lamentations1:1 How lonely sits the city once thronged with people! Once great among the nations, she is now lonely like a widow. Once a fair princess ruling among the provinces, now a shackled servant." 
Lamentations1:2 She is weeping bitterly through the night, with tears streaming down her cheeks. Among all her lovers, not one can be found to comfort her. Her friends have all betrayed her and have now become her enemies." 
Lamentations1:3 Judah’s people have gone into exile under harsh labor and much pain. They found no place to rest living among foreigners. All their enemies have seized them in the narrow passes. 
Lamentations1:4 The empty roads to Zion mourn, for no one travels to her sacred feasts anymore. The singing maidens suffer, and the priests can only groan. The city gates stand empty, and Zion can only moan." 
Lamentations1:5 Her foes have the upper hand while her enemies are now at ease. For Yahweh has made Jerusalem suffer for her many, many sins. Her young children are taken into captivity as captives before the oppressor." 
Lamentations1:6 All the splendor has departed from the fair daughter of Zion. Her princes are like deer that find no pasture. Weak and weary they stumble, unable to flee from those who pursue them." 
Lamentations1:7 In her days of wandering and affliction, Jerusalem still remembers all her precious treasures that were hers from days gone by. When the enemies defeated her people, there was no one to help her. Her conquerors looked on, jeering and cheering at her downfall." 
Lamentations1:8 Jerusalem has committed a horrible sin and has become an object of scorn. All who once honored her now despise her, for they have seen her nakedness. Shunned, she groans aloud and turns to hide her face in shame." 
Lamentations1:9 Her filth stains her skirts— she never pictured this outcome. Therefore, her fall is terrible with no one to comfort her. Jerusalem groans, “ Yahweh, look how miserable I am; all the while my enemy gloats!”" 
Lamentations1:10 The enemy has seized all her precious treasures. Before her very eyes she witnessed foreigners enter her holy sanctuary, although you had forbidden them ever to enter your assembly." 
Lamentations1:11 Everyone is groaning, longing for anything to eat; they have traded their treasures for food in order to keep themselves alive. “Look, Yahweh, and consider how pathetic I have become!" 
Lamentations1:12 “None who passes by even cares. Turn around and look at me! Is there anyone who suffers as much as I? Yahweh, in the terrible day of your fierce anger, you punished me worst of all." 
Lamentations1:13 “From on high, he sent a fire deep in my bones, and it conquered me. He trapped my feet in his snare and hurled me back. He left me stunned in misery that had no end." 
Lamentations1:14 “ Yahweh took my sins in his hands and tied them into a yoke. Then, he set his yoke upon my neck and caused my strength to fail. The Lord let my enemies defeat me; I am helpless to resist." 
Lamentations1:15 “The Lord has despised and rejected all the mighty warriors who defended me. He mobilized an army to destroy me and crush my young men. The Lord has trampled like grapes in a winepress the fair daughter of Judah. 
Lamentations1:16 “This is why I weep bitterly, as tears stream down my cheeks. Truly, no one is here to comfort me or revive my life. My children no longer have a future, for the enemy has triumphed.”" 
Lamentations1:17 Zion stretches out her hands for help, but there is no one to comfort her. At Yahweh ’s command, Jacob’s neighbors became her enemies. They all treated Jerusalem as though she were a bloody rag." 
Lamentations1:18 “ Yahweh is just to judge, for I have rebelled against his word. Listen, everyone, and see my sorrow; my maidens and young men have gone into captivity." 
Lamentations1:19 “I called to my lovers, but they cheated on me. My leaders and priests died in the city while scrounging for food just to keep themselves alive." 
Lamentations1:20 “ Yahweh, can’t you see I’m in deep trouble? My gut is churning and my heart is burning— how rebellious I have been! The sword rules on the street; plague rules within the houses." 
Lamentations1:21 “They have heard my groans, yet I have no one to comfort me. All my enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad you have done this to me. You threatened me and kept your promise— oh, that the same would happen to them!" 
Lamentations1:22 “Let all their wickedness condemn them. Deal with them as you have dealt with me for all my sins. My groaning seems endless, and I am sick at heart.”" 
Lamentations2:1 The Lord was so angry that he shrouded the daughter of Zion with shame. He hurled down to the ground the splendor of Israel. He disregarded his footstool on the day of his anger. 
Lamentations2:2 The Lord has swallowed up without mercy all the homes of Jacob’s descendants. In his fury, he tore down the fortresses of Daughter Judah. He threw to the ground and brought disgrace to the kingdom of Judah and her leaders." 
Lamentations2:3 In his burning anger, he shattered all the might of Israel as her enemies approached. He raged among his people like a flaming fire, which consumes everything near it." 
Lamentations2:4 He bent his bow like an enemy and clenched his fist like a foe. Like an enemy, he slaughtered all his pride and joy. He poured out his fury like fire on the temple of beloved Jerusalem." 
Lamentations2:5 The Lord became our enemy; he destroyed Israel. He devastated all her palaces and ruined her strongholds. He has multiplied weeping and wailing for Daughter Judah. 
Lamentations2:6 He wrecked his temple like a vineyard shack and utterly destroyed his meeting place. Yahweh erased the memory in Zion of his appointed feasts and Sabbaths. In the heat of his anger, he spurned both king and priest." 
Lamentations2:7 The Lord has rejected his own altar and disowned his sanctuary. He has given the walls of her fortresses to her enemies. When the enemy toppled Yahweh ’s temple, they shouted for joy like it was a festival day." 
Lamentations2:8 Yahweh was determined to destroy the walls of beloved Zion. As builders draw a straight line to build a wall, he stretched out the line of judgment to break down her walls. He caused her walls and towers to mourn, as they tumbled to the ground." 
Lamentations2:9 Her gates have collapsed to the ground; he has wrecked and shattered their bars. Her king and leaders are captives among the gentiles, and instruction from the Torah scrolls is no more. Her prophets, too, receive no vision from Yahweh." 
Lamentations2:10 The elders of beloved Zion sit mute on the ground. They have thrown dust on their heads and put on sackcloth. The young virgins of Jerusalem bow their heads in sorrow to the ground. 
Lamentations2:11 My eyes have no tears left, and my stomach is tied in knots. My heart is spilled out into the dirt over the destruction of the daughter of my people. Little toddlers and children collapse in the streets of the city." 
Lamentations2:12 They keep saying, “Mommy, I’m hungry,” as they faint like wounded men in the city streets. Their souls trickle away, and they breathe their last in the embrace of their mothers." 
Lamentations2:13 With what can I compare you? What can I say to you, beloved Jerusalem? To what can I liken you, in order to comfort you, fair Zion? For your wound is as deep as the sea. Who can heal you?" 
Lamentations2:14 The visions your prophets saw for you were false and deceptive whitewash. They neither exposed your guilt nor brought you back in repentance. The false visions they told you were nothing but delusions. 
Lamentations2:15 All who pass your way applaud in mockery. They wag their heads with contempt, saying over beloved Jerusalem, “Is this really the city called The Perfection of Beauty, The Joy of All the Earth?”" 
Lamentations2:16 Your enemies are a choir of scoffers and scolders. They hatefully sneer and glare at you. They gleefully exclaim, “We have destroyed her. This is the day we’ve been waiting for, and now we have lived to see it!”" 
Lamentations2:17 Yahweh has done everything he planned and has carried out his word. As he ordained long ago, he has destroyed without pity. He increased the power of your foes and caused your enemies to rejoice over you." 
Lamentations2:18 Beloved Zion, let your walls wail and your heart cry out to Yahweh. Let a waterfall of tears flow day and night. Give your eyes no rest; let tears keep streaming from your eyes." 
Lamentations2:19 Arise, cry aloud through the night as each watch begins. Pour your heart out like water before the presence of Yahweh. Raise your hands toward him; intercede for the lives of your children, who faint with hunger on every street corner." 
Lamentations2:20 “Look, Yahweh, and please consider. Whom have you ever treated this way? Should women eat their offspring, the little ones they have nursed? Should priests and prophets be slaughtered in the Lord’s sanctuary?" 
Lamentations2:21 “Both children and the elderly alike are lying dead in the dusty streets. My young men and maidens have both fallen by the sword. You have killed them on the day of your anger; you slaughtered them without mercy. 
Lamentations2:22 “You invited terror as if to a festival, to attack me from all sides. On the day of Yahweh ’s anger, none escaped and none survived. All whom I cherished and reared have been annihilated by the enemy.”" 
Lamentations3:1 I am the man acquainted with misery by the rod of his anger. 
Lamentations3:2 He has shepherded me into dark places with no light. 
Lamentations3:3 He laid a heavy hand on me, every day, over and over." 
Lamentations3:4 He has made my skin and my flesh waste away; he has broken my bones. 
Lamentations3:5 He has besieged and encircled me with a wall of hardship and bitterness. 
Lamentations3:6 He has made me sit in darkness like those long dead. 
Lamentations3:7 He has walled me in with no way out and weighed me down with heavy chains. 
Lamentations3:8 Even when I cry for help, he closes his ear to my prayer." 
Lamentations3:9 He has made my paths a maze and obstructed my ways. 
Lamentations3:10 He has become to me like a bear ready to pounce or a lion lying in wait. 
Lamentations3:11 He dragged me away, tore me to pieces, and then left me stunned and helpless." 
Lamentations3:12 He has drawn back his bowstring and used me as a target for his arrows. 
Lamentations3:13 He shot his arrows deep into my heart, sons from his quiver." 
Lamentations3:14 Everyone has made me an object of ridicule; they mock me all day long with their songs. 
Lamentations3:15 He has given me my fill of bitterness and made me drunk with wormwood. 
Lamentations3:16 He has ground my teeth with gravel and crushed me down to the dust. 
Lamentations3:17 You have snatched peace from my soul; I have entirely forgotten your goodness. 
Lamentations3:18 I thought to myself, “My endurance has evaporated; Yahweh has stamped out my hope for the future.”" 
Lamentations3:19 I remember wandering around in misery, drinking the poison of bitterness." 
Lamentations3:20 Whenever I ponder this, my soul fades away within me." 
Lamentations3:21 Yet there is one ray of hope when I remember this: 
Lamentations3:22 Yahweh ’s tender mercies have no end, and the kindness of his endless love is never exhausted." 
Lamentations3:23 New, fresh mercies greet me with every sunrise. So wonderfully great is your faithfulness!" 
Lamentations3:24 I tell my soul, “ Yahweh is my abundant portion. I need nothing more. So, I will put all my hope in him.”" 
Lamentations3:25 Yahweh is always good to all who trust in him, to the soul who searches for him." 
Lamentations3:26 It is always good to hope, quietly waiting for Yahweh ’s deliverance." 
Lamentations3:27 It is always good to learn patience and humility from a young age. 
Lamentations3:28 If your burden is heavy and hard to bear, endure it quietly." 
Lamentations3:29 Bow low in humble submission, for there may still be hope." 
Lamentations3:30 Offer a cheek to the one who would strike you, and learn to endure insults." 
Lamentations3:31 For the Lord will not reject you forever. 
Lamentations3:32 If he causes grief, he will show compassion from the cascading overflow of his endless love." 
Lamentations3:33 The Lord takes no delight in afflicting anyone with suffering. 
Lamentations3:34 To trample underfoot all the earth’s prisoners," 
Lamentations3:35 to violate human rights in the presence of the Most High," 
Lamentations3:36 to cheat someone of justice— these things the Lord does not approve. 
Lamentations3:37 Who can make anything happen unless the Lord is willing? 
Lamentations3:38 Is it not from the decree of the Most High that both calamities and good things come? 
Lamentations3:39 Why, then, should anyone complain over the punishment of their sins?" 
Lamentations3:40 Let us examine our path, ponder our ways, and return to Yahweh ’s heart." 
Lamentations3:41 Let us pray, offering up our hearts in our hands to our God above." 
Lamentations3:42 “We have sinned and rebelled, and you have not yet pardoned us." 
Lamentations3:43 “You have blanketed us with your anger and then pursued us, slaughtering without pity." 
Lamentations3:44 You shrouded yourself in a cloud too thick for prayer to pierce. 
Lamentations3:45 You have reduced us to rubbish; we are the lowest scum among the nations. 
Lamentations3:46 “Our enemies are a choir of scoffers and scolders. 
Lamentations3:47 Panic and pitfall have been our portion; calamity and collapse have come upon us.” 
Lamentations3:48 My eyes stream with torrents of tears as I weep over the ruin of my beloved people. 
Lamentations3:49 My eyes will weep without stopping, with no relief in sight" 
Lamentations3:50 until Yahweh looks down from heaven and sees how much we suffer. 
Lamentations3:51 My heart is so grieved over Jerusalem, the daughter of my people." 
Lamentations3:52 My enemies, who hate me for no reason, have trapped me like a bird." 
Lamentations3:53 They buried me alive in a pit and covered it with stones. 
Lamentations3:54 Water rose over my head; I thought, “I’m going to die!”" 
Lamentations3:55 I called on your name, Yahweh, from the bottom of the pit." 
Lamentations3:56 You have heard me cry out to you: “Do not close your ears to my sighs and to my cries.” 
Lamentations3:57 You drew near when I called to you. You told me, “Do not be afraid!”" 
Lamentations3:58 Lord, like a lawyer you contended for my cause; you liberated my life, my Redeemer." 
Lamentations3:59 Yahweh, you have seen the wrong done to me; judge in my favor." 
Lamentations3:60 You have seen their malice and all their hateful plots against me. 
Lamentations3:61 You have heard their mockery, Yahweh, all their horrible schemes against me." 
Lamentations3:62 They murmur and whisper against me all day long. 
Lamentations3:63 See, from morning to night, I am the butt of their jokes." 
Lamentations3:64 Yahweh, repay them! Give them what their deeds deserve." 
Lamentations3:65 Give them dullness of heart as you place your curse upon them. 
Lamentations3:66 Pursue them with anger and destroy them from under your heavens! 
Lamentations4:1 How the gold has lost its luster! How the pure gold has lost its value! The sacred stones lie scattered at the corner of every street. 
Lamentations4:2 The precious children of Zion, once worth their weight in the finest gold, are now regarded as jars of clay made by a potter’s hands." 
Lamentations4:3 Even the vicious jackal is kind enough to nurse her young, but the daughter of my people is as cruel as the desert ostrich." 
Lamentations4:4 The nursing babies have such thirst that their tongues stick to the roofs of their mouths. Little children ask for bread, but no one gives them a crumb." 
Lamentations4:5 Those who used to feast on delicacies now lie dying in the streets. Those who were raised in luxury now huddle in garbage dumps. 
Lamentations4:6 The punishment of my beloved people exceeded the judgment of sinful Sodom, which was suddenly destroyed without an army attacking her." 
Lamentations4:7 Israel’s nobility was once brighter than snow, whiter than milk; their bodies glowed with health and glistened like jewels." 
Lamentations4:8 Now their faces are emaciated; they are not even recognized in the streets. Their skin has shriveled on their bones, as dry as a stick." 
Lamentations4:9 Better are those killed by the sword than those killed by famine. They slowly starve to death for lack of food. 
Lamentations4:10 The hands of caring women cooked their own children; they became their food when my beloved people were destroyed. 
Lamentations4:11 At the peak of Yahweh ’s wrath, he vented his fierce anger! He lit a fire in Zion and burned it down to the ground." 
Lamentations4:12 No king believed, nor anyone anywhere, that a hostile foe could ever break through the gates of Jerusalem." 
Lamentations4:13 Yet this happened because of the sins of her prophets and the crimes of her priests, who shed innocent blood in the heart of the city." 
Lamentations4:14 They wandered blindly through the city and were so defiled with blood that no one dared to even touch their clothes. 
Lamentations4:15 “Get away! Unclean!” people shouted at them. “Keep back! Keep back! Don’t touch!” So, they fled Jerusalem and wandered to the nations, but they were not welcome to stay there either." 
Lamentations4:16 The face of Yahweh scattered them; he will look on them no more. They had no respect for the priests, no honor for her leaders." 
Lamentations4:17 We strained our eyes continually and looked, watching for help that never came. From our watchtowers we waited for a nation to help, for a nation that could not save us." 
Lamentations4:18 Men stalked us so that we could not walk on our streets. Our end drew near, our time ran out, for our end had come." 
Lamentations4:19 Our pursuers were swifter than eagles in the sky; they hunted us on the mountains and lay in ambush for us in the wilderness. 
Lamentations4:20 They captured Yahweh ’s anointed leader, our king; the hope of our survival was caught in their traps. We thought that under his protective shadow we would live among the nations." 
Lamentations4:21 Go ahead, you people of Edom and Uz, laugh on and be glad like nothing will happen to you! Your day is coming to drink from this cup; you will get drunk and stagger naked." 
Lamentations4:22 Your punishment is over, fair daughter of Zion. Yahweh will never send you away into exile again. But people of Edom, he will punish your wickedness and expose your sins." 
Lamentations5:1 Yahweh, remember all that we’ve endured; look and see our disgrace." 
Lamentations5:2 Our inheritance has passed to strangers, our homes to foreigners." 
Lamentations5:3 We have no fathers; we are orphans, and our mothers are widows." 
Lamentations5:4 We have to pay for drinking water, and our firewood comes at a steep price." 
Lamentations5:5 Our pursuers are breathing down our necks; we are exhausted and allowed no rest. 
Lamentations5:6 We made a pact with Egypt and Assyria just to have enough food to eat. 
Lamentations5:7 Our ancestors sinned, and they are no more; and now we suffer their punishment." 
Lamentations5:8 Slaves rule over us; there is no one to rescue us from them. 
Lamentations5:9 We risk our lives to earn our bread because of armed gangs in the wilderness. 
Lamentations5:10 Our skin is scorched from the heat of famine. 
Lamentations5:11 Our enemies violated Zion’s women and young girls in the towns of Judah. 
Lamentations5:12 Our leaders have been taken and hanged; our elders have received no respect. 
Lamentations5:13 Young men are forced into menial labor, boys stagger under loads of wood." 
Lamentations5:14 The elders no longer give their advice; the young no longer make music. 
Lamentations5:15 Joy has vanished from our hearts; our dancing has turned to mourning. 
Lamentations5:16 Our joyful celebrations are over. We have sinned, and we are doomed!" 
Lamentations5:17 For this is why our hearts are sick and our eyes are veiled with tears," 
Lamentations5:18 because Mount Zion lies desolate with jackals roaming over it. 
Lamentations5:19 Yet you, Yahweh, reign forever! Your throne endures from age to age." 
Lamentations5:20 Have you forgotten us forever? Why have you abandoned us for so long? 
Lamentations5:21 Draw us back to yourself, Yahweh; let us come back to you! Restore us as we were before." 
Lamentations5:22 Have you utterly rejected us? Is there no limit to your anger? 
Ezekiel1:1 I am Ezekiel the son of Buzi, a priest. I was living among the Jewish exiles in Babylon by the River Chebar. One day when I was thirty, the heavens opened before my eyes, and I saw visions of God! It happened on the fifth day of the fourth month during the fifth year of King Jehoiachin’s exile. It was then that the word of Yahweh was powerfully revealed to me, and I felt the mighty hand of Yahweh come upon me!" 
Ezekiel1:2  
Ezekiel1:3  
Ezekiel1:4 As I looked into the spirit realm, I saw a fierce whirlwind and a massive cloud coming toward me from the north. Within the approaching cloud I saw raging flames of fire—flames enfolding themselves in flames! And outlining the glory cloud was a radiant light. And in the center of the flashing fire, I saw a substance of blinding brilliance with the appearance of electrum." 
Ezekiel1:5 And I also saw standing in the middle of the storm what seemed to be four creatures, each with the appearance of a man. They looked like this:" 
Ezekiel1:6 Each had four faces, and each had four wings." 
Ezekiel1:7 Their legs were straight, but they had hooves like calves. Their hooves were bright and glistening like polished brass." 
Ezekiel1:8 All four of them had faces and wings, and each of the supernatural beings had a pair of human hands under its wings. There were hands on all four sides of the living creatures." 
Ezekiel1:9 They joined one another with their wings, forming a square. When they moved forward in whatever direction, they went together as a group, without turning their bodies." 
Ezekiel1:10 And all four beings had four faces: a human face in front, a lion’s face to the right, an ox’s face to the left, and an eagle’s face in the back." 
Ezekiel1:11 Their wings were divided into two pairs; one pair was extended upward so that each one touched the wingtips of the one next to it, and the other pair covered its body." 
Ezekiel1:12 And each one moved straight forward, moving where the Spirit directed them, and they did not turn as they moved." 
Ezekiel1:13 These living creatures looked like burning coals of fire, like blazing torches. Flames flashed back and forth between the creatures. The light was blinding, and lightning was flashing out of it." 
Ezekiel1:14 And the living creatures kept disappearing and reappearing like shooting stars. 
Ezekiel1:15 As I observed the four-faced creatures, I saw four shining wheels standing on the ground beside each of them." 
Ezekiel1:16 All four wheels looked entirely alike, glittering like sparkling jewels. Each appeared to have another wheel inside it." 
Ezekiel1:17 And the wheels were able to go in any direction the living creatures faced without turning to change direction. 
Ezekiel1:18 The circumference of the rims seemed enormous, breathtaking in size, and all four rims were full of eyes all the way around." 
Ezekiel1:19 Regardless of the direction the living creatures moved, the wheels moved with them, and when the living creatures levitated off the ground, the wheels levitated also." 
Ezekiel1:20 And the spirit in the living creatures was also in the wheels, and wherever the spirit went, the creatures went. Wherever the spirit wanted to go, the creatures went there, and the wheels also rose and went with them." 
Ezekiel1:21 So every time the creatures moved, or halted, or levitated, the wheels did also because the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:22 Suspended above the living creatures I saw something that looked like a platform spread out above them. The platform was fearsome, transparent, and shining like sparkling glass." 
Ezekiel1:23 And under the platform were the four living creatures with wings outstretched and touching one another and each with a pair of wings covering its body. 
Ezekiel1:24 When they moved, I heard the awesome sound of their wings. It was like the noise of roaring rapids, like the voice of Shaddai, and like the sound of an army advancing! And when the creatures stopped moving, they lowered their wings." 
Ezekiel1:25 Then, as they stood still, I heard someone speaking from above the platform over their heads." 
Ezekiel1:26 High on the platform over their heads, I saw something that looked like a beautiful throne made of sapphire. And high above on the throne was one who had the form of a man." 
Ezekiel1:27 I saw what appeared to be his waist upward, and it was bright and dazzling metal; and from what appeared to be his waist downward, I saw what looked like flames of fire, giving off a brilliant light all around." 
Ezekiel1:28 The radiance of the light encircling the throne had in it every color of the rainbow like on the day of a downpour. This was the appearance of the glory of Yahweh! And when I saw this, I fell on my face. Then, I heard the voice of someone speaking to me." 
Ezekiel2:1 He said to me, “Son of man, rise to your feet; I want to talk to you.”" 
Ezekiel2:2 The moment I heard these words, the Spirit flowed into me and set me upright on my feet." 
Ezekiel2:3 And I heard him speaking to me, saying, “Son of man, I am sending you to the rebellious sons of Israel who have refused allegiance to me. They and their ancestors have been in revolt against me up to the present day." 
Ezekiel2:4 I am sending you to a stubborn and hard-hearted people. Tell them, ‘Lord Yahweh says this.’" 
Ezekiel2:5 And whether they listen or not, this tribe of defiant rebels will know that a true prophet is among them." 
Ezekiel2:6 And you, son of man, do not be afraid of them or of anything they say, even though you may feel like you are stepping on thorns and sitting on scorpions. Do not be afraid of their angry words or intimidated by their glaring stares, for they are rebellion personified!" 
Ezekiel2:7 You are to speak my words to them whether they listen to you or rebelliously refuse. 
Ezekiel2:8 But you, son of man, listen to what I am saying to you: do not be like them, for they are a tribe of rebels. Now, open your mouth and eat what I am about to give you.”" 
Ezekiel2:9 Just then, I saw a hand holding a scroll reaching out to me." 
Ezekiel2:10 He unrolled it in front of me with writing on both sides. On it was written “Lament, Mourning, and Cries of Doom.”" 
Ezekiel3:1 He said to me, “Son of man, eat what you see in front of you; eat this scroll, then go and speak to the people of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel3:2 So I opened my mouth, and he fed me the scroll," 
Ezekiel3:3 saying, “Son of man, eat this scroll I am giving to you and fill your belly with it.” So I began to chew it, and it tasted as sweet as honey." 
Ezekiel3:4 Then he said, “Son of man, now go to the people of Israel and speak my words to them." 
Ezekiel3:5 I am not sending you to a nation that speaks a difficult foreign language but to the people of Israel— 
Ezekiel3:6 not to nations whose complex languages you could not understand and who speak words you cannot even pronounce. Surely, if I sent you to them, they would listen to you," 
Ezekiel3:7 but the people of Israel will refuse to listen to you because they refuse to listen to me. The whole family of Israel has a hard heart and is stubbornly defiant. 
Ezekiel3:8 But now, I will make you as stubborn and defiant as they are!" 
Ezekiel3:9 I will make your resolve as hard as the hardest stone, even harder than flint. So do not fear them or be afraid because of their angry stares, for they are a tribe of rebels.”" 
Ezekiel3:10 Then he said, “Son of man, listen carefully and take to heart everything I say to you," 
Ezekiel3:11 then go to the Jews in exile and say to them, ‘Listen to what Lord Yahweh says,’ whether they listen or not.”" 
Ezekiel3:12 Then the Spirit lifted me up, and behind me I heard a loud, thunderous voice: “Blessed be the glory of Yahweh in his sanctuary!”" 
Ezekiel3:13 I heard the sound of the living creatures as their wings kissed each other and the sound of the rumbling wheels beside them, like the sound of a great earthquake." 
Ezekiel3:14 The Spirit lifted me up and took me away. I went in the heat of my spirit, and the hand of Yahweh rested powerfully upon me." 
Ezekiel3:15 The Spirit took me to Tel Abib, the very place where the Jewish exiles were living beside the River Chebar. I remained there with them for a week, dumbfounded and overwhelmed by what I had seen and heard." 
Ezekiel3:16 Afterward, Yahweh spoke the following words to me:" 
Ezekiel3:17 “Son of man, I am appointing you as a watchman for the people of Israel. When you hear me speak to you, give them my warning." 
Ezekiel3:18 If I say to wicked people, ‘You are headed toward certain death,’ and you fail to give them warning by not speaking up to warn the evil ones against their evil courses so as to keep them alive, then the wicked ones will die for their sinful deeds. But I will hold you responsible for their deaths." 
Ezekiel3:19 But if you do warn the wicked and they keep sinning anyway, they’ll most certainly die for their sin, but you won’t die. You’ll have saved your life." 
Ezekiel3:20 And if righteous people turn away from righteous living and pursue a life of sin, I will set calamities before them, and they will die. Because you did not give them warning, they will die for their sinful deeds, and all the righteous deeds done earlier in life will not be remembered. But I will hold you responsible for their deaths." 
Ezekiel3:21 If, however, you do warn a righteous person not to sin and he responds to your warning, that person will live, and you will have also saved your life.”" 
Ezekiel3:22 While I was there, Yahweh seized me with his power, and he said to me, “Stand up, go out into the valley, and I will speak with you there.”" 
Ezekiel3:23 So I got up and went down into the valley and behold, the awesome glory of Yahweh manifested in front of me! It was like the vision of glory I had seen by the River Chebar, and I fell facedown." 
Ezekiel3:24 Then the Spirit flowed into me and set me on my feet. And I heard him say to me: “Go home and shut the door behind you. 
Ezekiel3:25 Behold! Son of man, you are about to be tied up with ropes and confined to your house and unable to mingle among the people." 
Ezekiel3:26 And I am going to make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth; you will be mute and unable to speak to rebuke this rebellious people. 
Ezekiel3:27 But whenever I want to speak through you, I will give you back the power of speech. And then you will say to them, ‘This is what Lord Yahweh says: If you have a heart to hear, then hear! If you refuse to listen, then so be it!’—for they are a tribe of rebels.”" 
Ezekiel4:1 Yahweh said, “Son of man, take a clay tile and lay it in front of you. Sketch the city of Jerusalem on the tile." 
Ezekiel4:2 Build a wall around it and, to represent a siege, pile up a dirt ramp against the wall. Then prepare to attack it as if it were a real city. Surround it with armed soldiers and station battering rams on all sides." 
Ezekiel4:3 Then take an iron frying pan and place it on edge as though it were an iron wall between you and the city. Then direct your gaze toward the city, for it is under siege and you are besieging it. This is to be a sign, an object lesson for the people of Israel." 
Ezekiel4:4 “Then lie down on your left side and stay like that for 390 days. The people of Israel sinned for 390 years, and you will lie one day for each year they sinned. You will symbolically bear their guilt for as many days as you lie on that side and bear their punishment." 
Ezekiel4:5  
Ezekiel4:6 After that, lie down a second time but turn over on your right side and stay like that for forty days, one day for each year of the guilt of the people of Judah." 
Ezekiel4:7 Then direct your gaze on the model of the siege of Jerusalem, shake your fist at the city and prophesy against her." 
Ezekiel4:8 Behold, I am going to tie you up, and you will not be able to turn from one side to the other until the period of your seclusion is over." 
Ezekiel4:9 “Now take some wheat, barley, beans, lentils, and other grains; store them all together and make bread for yourself. This will be your food for the 390 days you are lying on your side." 
Ezekiel4:10 Of these grains, make a small loaf of bread at a set time each day." 
Ezekiel4:11 And you are to ration the water you drink to two cups at a set time each day. 
Ezekiel4:12 Eat the food as you would a barley cake. While everyone can see you, build a fire with dried human excrement, then bake the bread on the coals.”" 
Ezekiel4:13 And Yahweh said, “In this same way the Israelites will have to eat defiled food among the nations where I will disperse them.”" 
Ezekiel4:14 Then I replied, “Oh no! Lord Yahweh, I have never defiled myself, from childhood until now. I have never eaten meat from any animal that died a natural death or was killed by wild animals. Nothing unclean has ever entered my mouth.”" 
Ezekiel4:15 “Very well,” he said, “I will let you use dried cow manure instead of human excrement as fuel to bake your bread.”" 
Ezekiel4:16 Then he added, “Son of man, I am going to cut off Jerusalem’s food supply. In their horrible distress, the food they eat and the water they drink will be rationed." 
Ezekiel4:17 They will watch as it all runs out and look at each other in total despair. And they will slowly die of starvation because of their guilt.” 
Ezekiel5:1 Yahweh said, “Son of man, take a sharp sword; use it like a barber’s razor and shave your head and beard. Then take scales and divide the hair into three piles." 
Ezekiel5:2 When the days of your siege are over, burn up a third in the midst of the city of Jerusalem. Take another third and chop it up with the sword around the perimeter of the tile-city. Then scatter the last third to the wind. I will pursue those who escape the city with my sword." 
Ezekiel5:3 Also keep back a few hairs and wrap them up in the folds of your cloak. 
Ezekiel5:4 And of those, take just a few hairs and throw them on the fire and burn them. That fire will spread to all the people of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel5:5 Listen to what the Lord Yahweh says: “This represents Jerusalem. I have placed her in the center of the nations, encircled by foreign countries." 
Ezekiel5:6 Yet she has rebelled more wickedly against my ways and against my laws than the gentile nations that surround her. Indeed, she has deliberately rejected my commands and not kept my laws.”" 
Ezekiel5:7 Therefore, the Lord Yahweh says, “Because you acted more wickedly than the nations around you, since you do not keep my laws or respect my commands, and since you do not respect even the moral standards of the surrounding nations," 
Ezekiel5:8 therefore, behold—I, Lord Yahweh, declare that I am against you. And I will pass my judgment on you for all the nations to see." 
Ezekiel5:9 Because of all your loathsome practices, I am coming against you more severely than I have ever done before or will ever do again." 
Ezekiel5:10 As a result, those of you who are parents will eat their children, and children will eat their parents. I will punish you and scatter what remains of you to the winds." 
Ezekiel5:11 “For as surely as I live, I, Lord Yahweh, declare: because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your horrible and loathsome practices, I will withdraw from you and will not even glance on you with pity or spare you." 
Ezekiel5:12 Inside Jerusalem, a third of your people will die of plague or starvation. Outside the city, a third will fall by the sword. And a third I will scatter to the winds and pursue with my sword." 
Ezekiel5:13 Then my anger will come to an end and be fully spent against them, and then my justice will have been satisfied. When I have carried out my anger against them, they will know how jealous I am for them. Afterward, they will know that I, Yahweh, have spoken in my zeal." 
Ezekiel5:14 “Moreover, I will reduce you to a heap of ruins, an object of scorn to the surrounding nations, in the eyes of all who pass by." 
Ezekiel5:15 You will be mocked and insulted. Your downfall will be an appalling lesson to the surrounding nations. This will happen when I execute judgment on you in my furious anger and with my furious punishment. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel5:16 “I will release against them the deadly arrows of famine—arrows of destruction! Then I will make the famine even worse and cut off your food supply. 
Ezekiel5:17 I will send severe famine and wild animals against you to rob you of your children. Sickness and bloodshed will overtake you, and I will bring the sword down upon you. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel6:1 Yahweh said to me: 
Ezekiel6:2 “Son of man, turn toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them." 
Ezekiel6:3 Say to them, ‘Mountains of Israel, hear the words of Lord Yahweh! He prophesies to the mountains and hills, to the ravines and valleys: “ ‘I am wielding a sword against you and I will demolish your shrines." 
Ezekiel6:4 Your altars will be deserted, and your incense altars will be smashed. I will slay your people before your idols." 
Ezekiel6:5 I will lay the corpses of the Israelites before their idols, and I will scatter your bones all around your altars." 
Ezekiel6:6 Wherever you live, your cities will be ruined and your shrines deserted. All your altars will be destroyed and desecrated, and your idols shall be broken and banished. Your incense altars will be chopped down, and all your works wiped out." 
Ezekiel6:7 The slain will lie everywhere in your midst, and you will know that I am Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel6:8 “ ‘I will spare some of you who escape the sword when you are scattered among the nations. 
Ezekiel6:9 Those who escape will remember me among the nations where they are exiles. They will remember how my heart was crushed by their promiscuous ways when they turned their hearts away from me and by their wandering eyes that lusted after idols. They will loathe themselves for the evil things they did and all their detestable practices. 
Ezekiel6:10 And they will realize that it was no idle threat when I, Yahweh, declared that I would bring this severe punishment upon them.’ ”" 
Ezekiel6:11 Hear the words of Lord Yahweh: “Stomp your feet angrily and pound your fist, and say, ‘How awful!’ over all the evil abominations of the people of Israel. For they will fall by the sword, by food shortages, and by plague." 
Ezekiel6:12 “Those far away will die by the plague, those nearby shall fall by the sword, and those who survive will die of hunger. They will experience the fullness of my fury!" 
Ezekiel6:13 “And you will be convinced that I am Yahweh when their corpses lie scattered around their idols and around their altars, on every high hill, on every mountaintop, under every spreading tree, and under every leafy oak—every place where they have offered soothing incense to all their lifeless idols." 
Ezekiel6:14 I will stretch out my mighty arm against them and turn the land wherever they live into a complete wasteland from the desert to Riblah. And when this happens, they will be convinced that I am Yahweh!”" 
Ezekiel7:1 Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Ezekiel7:2 “Son of man, tell the people of Israel what I, Lord Yahweh, say to the land of Israel: ‘Finished! The end has come over all the land." 
Ezekiel7:3 Now the end has come. I will unleash my anger on you and judge you for the way you have lived. I will judge you for all your loathsome practices. 
Ezekiel7:4 I will not show you pity nor spare you. Indeed, I will punish you for your conduct—the despicable evil you have done. Then you all will be convinced that I am Yahweh.’" 
Ezekiel7:5 “The Lord Yahweh says: ‘Look! An unheard-of disaster is coming. 
Ezekiel7:6 It’s all over for you! The end is near! Doom is awakened against you. Behold, the fateful day!" 
Ezekiel7:7 Now it is your turn to be punished. You who dwell in this land, doom is coming, for the day of Yahweh is near. The people will be shouting in panic, not shouting with joy at the shrines on the mountaintops." 
Ezekiel7:8 Very soon I will vent my fury on you and punish you until my anger is finished. I will judge you for the way you live and punish you for all your loathsome practices. 
Ezekiel7:9 I will show you no mercy nor spare you, but I will punish you for your conduct and for all your detestable deeds. Then you will know that I am Yahweh who has punished you.’ ”" 
Ezekiel7:10 “ ‘Now is the day of disaster. Behold, your doom has come! Brutality has blossomed, and pride is at its peak." 
Ezekiel7:11 Violence has grown up into a rod to punish their wickedness. None of these proud, evil people will survive. All their wealth and prestige will be swept away." 
Ezekiel7:12 The time of your doom is before you; the day of reckoning has come. Let not the buyer be happy nor the seller be sad, for wrath is upon the entire multitude." 
Ezekiel7:13 For the seller will not be able to return to what has been sold while they live. For the vision concerns them all. Each persists in sin, and no one will hold on to their lives." 
Ezekiel7:14 The trumpet sounds, everyone gets ready, but no one goes into battle, since my anger rests on everyone alike.’ ”" 
Ezekiel7:15 “ ‘Enemies are lurking outside the city; inside are disease and starvation. Anyone out in the countryside will die in battle; anyone in the city will die by starvation and plague. 
Ezekiel7:16 And those who escape will flee to the mountains, moaning like doves of the valleys, each one moaning for his sin." 
Ezekiel7:17 Every hand will grow weak. Gripped with fear, they wet themselves." 
Ezekiel7:18 Terror covers them as they put on sackcloth. Shame covers their faces as they shave their heads bald. 
Ezekiel7:19 They will throw their silver away in the streets and their gold like filthy menstrual rags. Their wealth will not be able to save them on the day of Yahweh ’s fury. For it will be worthless on that day to buy food to fill their stomachs since it was their wealth that led them into sin. 
Ezekiel7:20 Once they were so proud of their beautiful jewelry, out of which they made their disgusting, horrible idols. Now I have made their wealth and jewels repulsive to them." 
Ezekiel7:21 I will give your wealth to foreigners, as spoils of war to the evilest people on earth, and they will profane it." 
Ezekiel7:22 I will turn my face away from them while my hidden, treasured place is profaned and thugs force their way in and defile it." 
Ezekiel7:23 “ ‘Prepare plenty of chains to bind up the captives. For the country is full of bloodshed and murders, and the city is full of violence," 
Ezekiel7:24 so I will bring evil nations here to seize their homes. I will put an end to the pride of their elite, and their sanctuary will be profaned." 
Ezekiel7:25 Panic is on the way! They will look for peace but never find it. 
Ezekiel7:26 One disaster will follow another, with rumor upon rumor. They will seek a vision from the prophet but in vain. The priestly teaching of the divine law will be destroyed, along with the counsel of the elders." 
Ezekiel7:27 The king will go into mourning, the officials will be wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people will tremble in terror. I will punish them for the way they have lived and judge them the same way as they have judged others. Then they will be convinced that I am Yahweh!’ ”" 
Ezekiel8:1 In the sixth year of our exile, on the fifth day of the sixth month, the elders of Judah and I were sitting in my home. Suddenly, I felt the mighty power of the Lord Yahweh come over me." 
Ezekiel8:2 Behold, I saw a fiery human figure. His body looked like fire! Below the waist were flames of fire; above the waist he glistened as bright as glowing bronze." 
Ezekiel8:3 He reached out with what seemed like a hand and grabbed me by my hair. Then, in a great and wonderful vision from God, the Spirit lifted me up high in the air and transported me to Jerusalem. He took me to the entrance of the north gate of the inner court where the disgusting idol that provokes Yahweh ’s jealousy was standing." 
Ezekiel8:4 And all at once, the dazzling glory of the God of Israel appeared! It looked like what I had seen in the Euphrates Valley." 
Ezekiel8:5 Then God said, “Son of man, look now to the north.” So, I raised my eyes to the north, and standing there, north of the pathway entrance of the altar gate was this vile statue that infuriates God." 
Ezekiel8:6 And he said to me, “Son of man, do you see what they are doing? Look at all the repulsive, loathsome things that the people of Israel are practicing here! Their disgusting deeds drive me farther and farther from my sanctuary. And you will see even more shocking things than these.”" 
Ezekiel8:7 He next transported me to the entrance to the outer courtyard. I looked carefully and noticed there was a hole in the wall. 
Ezekiel8:8 He said, “Son of man, dig through the wall.” When I dug into the wall, I discovered a doorway." 
Ezekiel8:9 He said, “Now, go in and look at the shocking, despicable things they are doing inside.”" 
Ezekiel8:10 So I went through the door, and I noticed the walls were covered with drawings of every kind of snake, bugs, creeping things, repulsive animals, and all the disgusting idols of the people of Israel." 
Ezekiel8:11 Worshiping these animals were seventy leaders of Israel, and standing among them was Jaazaniah son of Shaphan. Each one had an incense burner in his hand, from which rose a fragrant cloud of incense." 
Ezekiel8:12 God said to me, “Son of man, have you seen what these leaders of Israel are doing in secret, each one worshiping in his own personal shrine? They say, ‘Oh, Yahweh cannot see us; he has left the land.’ ”" 
Ezekiel8:13 Then God said, “ This is not even the worst of the practices. You will see things more terrible than this.”" 
Ezekiel8:14 Next he took me to the entrance of the north gate of the temple of Yahweh where women were weeping over the death of the god Tammuz. 
Ezekiel8:15 He said, “Son of man, do you see their worship of Tammuz? You will see even more terrible things than that.”" 
Ezekiel8:16 Next he transported me to the north gate to the inner court of his temple. And there, at the entrance to Yahweh ’s sanctuary, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men standing with their faces to the east worshiping the sun with their backs to Yahweh ’s sanctuary. They bowed down to the east, before the rising sun." 
Ezekiel8:17 God said to me, “Son of man, do you see this? It is bad enough that the people of Judah are doing these despicable things, but they also spread violence throughout the land and provoke my anger further! Look at how they insult me in every possible way they can." 
Ezekiel8:18 Therefore, with wrath I will deal with them. I will show neither pity nor mercy. They can cry to me as loudly as they want, but I will not listen to them.”" 
Ezekiel9:1 Then I heard the Lord shout loudly for me to hear, “Executioners, draw near! Each bring your weapon of destruction!”" 
Ezekiel9:2 Immediately six men advanced from the upper north gate, each one holding a deadly weapon. Also, I saw with them a man clothed in white linen, with a scribe’s case tied to his belt. They came and stood in front of the bronze altar." 
Ezekiel9:3 Then the dazzling glory of the God of Israel rose from above the cherubim where it had been resting and moved toward the threshold of the temple. Then he called to the man dressed in white linen with a scribe’s case at his side," 
Ezekiel9:4 and Yahweh said to him, “Go throughout Jerusalem, and place a mark on the foreheads of all who grieve and are greatly distressed over all the disgusting things done in the city.”" 
Ezekiel9:5 And I heard him say to the other six, “Follow the man in white linen through the city and strike down everyone with no mark on their forehead —old men, young men, girls, children, women—kill them all. Show no mercy, not even one glance of pity. But do not touch anyone with a mark on his forehead. And begin at my sanctuary.” So, they began with those men in front of the temple and with the elders." 
Ezekiel9:6  
Ezekiel9:7 He said to the executioners, “Go make my temple unfit for worship. Fill its courtyard with corpses. Now get to work.” They departed and began to strike the people throughout the city." 
Ezekiel9:8 While they were slaying, I was left alone in the temple. I threw myself facedown on the ground and cried out, “Oh, Lord Yahweh, are you really going to wipe out the remnant of Israel by venting your fury on Jerusalem?”" 
Ezekiel9:9 He answered me, “The guilt of the people of Israel and Judah is enormous. The land is full of bloodshed, and Jerusalem full of perverted justice. They say, ‘ Yahweh can’t see us! He has abandoned the nation.’" 
Ezekiel9:10 So, I no longer will show them any mercy nor give them one glance of pity. They hereby suffer the consequences of their own behavior.”" 
Ezekiel9:11 Just then, the man dressed in white linen with the scribe’s case came back and made his report: “ It is finished; I have carried out your orders.”" 
Ezekiel10:1 Then I saw a vision. On top of the dome over the heads of the cherubim, I saw something that looked like a sapphire throne." 
Ezekiel10:2 Yahweh said to the man dressed in white linen, “Go among the whirling wheels below the cherubim and take a handful of burning coals from between the living creatures and scatter them over the city.” While I was watching, he went in among the whirling wheels." 
Ezekiel10:3 The cherubim were on the south side of the temple as the man went in, and the billowing glory cloud filled the inner courtyard." 
Ezekiel10:4 The dazzling glory of Yahweh rose from between the cherubim and rested over the entrance of the temple. The temple was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the radiance of the glory of Yahweh." 
Ezekiel10:5 The noise of the living creatures’ wings was as loud as the voice of God Almighty! The people could even hear it in the outer courtyard! 
Ezekiel10:6 Afterward, Yahweh commanded the man dressed in white linen to go among the wheels and take fire that was burning among the cherubim. So, the man went among them and stood beside one of the wheels." 
Ezekiel10:7 One of the living creatures then reached his hand into the fire between the cherubim and took some fire and placed it into the hands of the man dressed in white linen, who took it and left." 
Ezekiel10:8 It seemed that the living creatures had what looked like a human hand under their wings. 
Ezekiel10:9 I saw the four wheels by the living creatures, one wheel beside each living creature. And the wheels sparkled like precious gemstones." 
Ezekiel10:10 Each wheel appeared to be identical with another wheel inside it. 
Ezekiel10:11 As the wheels moved, they would go in any one of the four directions the living creatures faced, without having to turn around. They went in whatever direction their head faced without turning as they went." 
Ezekiel10:12 Their entire bodies, their backs, their hands, their wings—along with all four of their wheels—were covered with eyes all around." 
Ezekiel10:13 I heard a voice refer to the wheels as “whirling wheels.” 
Ezekiel10:14 Each living creature had four faces; the first was a cherub’s face, the second a human face, the third a lion’s face, and the fourth an eagle’s face." 
Ezekiel10:15 Then the cherubim rose to the sky. They were the same living creatures I had seen by the River Chebar. 
Ezekiel10:16 When the living creatures moved as a group in any direction, the wheels followed them, and when the living creatures levitated off the ground by spreading their wings, the wheels did not leave their place beside them." 
Ezekiel10:17 When the living creatures stopped, the wheels stopped; when the former rose, the wheels rose with them, since they shared the same living Spirit." 
Ezekiel10:18 Then the dazzling glory of Yahweh departed from the entrance of the temple and hovered over the living creatures. 
Ezekiel10:19 They spread their wings, and before my eyes, I saw them levitate from the ground, with the wheels spinning beside them. Then they paused at the entrance to the eastern gate of Yahweh ’s temple, with the dazzling glory of the God of Israel shining over them." 
Ezekiel10:20 These were the same living creatures I had seen beneath the throne of the God of Israel by the River Chebar; I knew that they were cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:21 Each had four faces, four wings, and what appeared to be human hands under their wings." 
Ezekiel10:22 Each one moved straight ahead. Their faces were identical to those I had seen by the River Chebar. 
Ezekiel11:1 God’s Spirit swept me off my feet and transported me to the eastern gate of the temple of Yahweh. And behold, there at the entrance to the gate facing east stood twenty-five men, including the two officials Jaazaniah son of Azzur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah." 
Ezekiel11:2 Then Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, these men are making evil plans to spread their wicked counsel throughout this city." 
Ezekiel11:3 They say, ‘Isn’t it time to start building houses again? Jerusalem is like an iron storage pot, and we are like meat, stored safely away.’" 
Ezekiel11:4 Therefore, prophesy against them. Prophesy, son of man!”" 
Ezekiel11:5 Then the Spirit of Yahweh fell on me, and said to me, “Tell the people: ‘I, Yahweh, say to the people of Israel, I know what you think, your every secret thought." 
Ezekiel11:6 You have murdered so many people in this city that its streets are filled with corpses. 
Ezekiel11:7 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says this: Yes, this city is the pot, and the corpses you have thrown into the streets, they are the meat! But I will drive you out of the city." 
Ezekiel11:8 Are you afraid of the sword? Then I will bring the sword against you, declares the Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel11:9 And I will bring you to justice and will drive you out of Jerusalem and hand you over to foreigners! 
Ezekiel11:10 I will judge you at the border of Israel and you will fall by the sword. Then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel11:11 For this city will not be your safe storage pot, nor will you be the meat inside. I will execute justice on you on the border of Israel." 
Ezekiel11:12 And then you will know that I am Yahweh, whose laws and commands you have disobeyed. Instead, you have embraced the customs of the neighboring nations.’ ”" 
Ezekiel11:13 While I was prophesying, Pelatiah son of Benaiah dropped dead. I threw myself facedown to the ground and cried out, “Oh no, Lord Yahweh, are you going to annihilate the remnant left in Israel?”" 
Ezekiel11:14 Yahweh spoke to me, saying:" 
Ezekiel11:15 “Son of man, the people living in Jerusalem are talking about you, your close relatives, and all the people of Israel. They are saying that the people in exile are away from Yahweh. ‘This country was given to us as our possession!’" 
Ezekiel11:16 Now give this message to your fellow exiles: ‘The Lord Yahweh says to you: Although I have sent you far away among the nations and I have scattered you to foreign countries, yet I have been your sanctuary for the time being wherever you have gone.’" 
Ezekiel11:17 And tell them, ‘The Lord Yahweh says this: I will gather you back from the peoples, and draw you together from the countries where you have been scattered and give you the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel11:18 When you return, you will purge the land of all its filthy idols and detestable practices." 
Ezekiel11:19 I will give you a new, undivided heart, and I will put a new spirit in you. I will remove your stubborn heart of stone and give you a tender heart that responds to me—a devoted heart." 
Ezekiel11:20 Therefore, you will keep my laws and faithfully obey my commands. Then you will truly be the people of my heart, and I will be the God you worship." 
Ezekiel11:21 But I will punish those whose hearts are devoted to their filthy idols and detestable practices. I will repay them for their conduct, declares Lord Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel11:22 Then the cherubim raised their wings to fly, and the wheels moved in unison with them; above them was the radiant glory of the God of Israel." 
Ezekiel11:23 And the glory of Yahweh went up from Jerusalem and stood above the mountain to the east of the city. 
Ezekiel11:24 Then, the Spirit snatched me away and transported me back among the exiles in Babylon. This was the vision given to me by the Spirit of God. Then the vision faded away." 
Ezekiel11:25 And I told the exiles everything that Yahweh had revealed to me. 
Ezekiel12:1 The word of Yahweh was revealed to me: 
Ezekiel12:2 “Son of man, you are living among a rebellious people. They have eyes, but they will not see; they have ears, but they will not hear because they are bent on rebellion." 
Ezekiel12:3 Therefore, son of man, pack a small bundle of your belongings and leave your home before nightfall. Let everyone see you go into exile. And go somewhere else, like you are a prisoner of war, while they watch you depart. Then perhaps they will understand that they are a rebellious people." 
Ezekiel12:4 While everyone is watching, pack your things like a refugee’s bundle, by daylight, and leave like an exile at sunset." 
Ezekiel12:5 Dig through the wall of your house and crawl out, carrying the bag with you. Make sure everyone is watching." 
Ezekiel12:6 Let them watch as you shoulder your pack and go out into the dusk. And cover your face so that you cannot see the land you are leaving since I have made you a walking parable—a sign to warn the people of Israel.” 
Ezekiel12:7 So, I did as I had been told. I packed my bag like an exile’s bundle, by daylight. And that evening, I dug a hole through the wall with my hands. Then while everyone watched, I shouldered my pack and went out into the dark." 
Ezekiel12:8 The next morning Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:9 “Son of man, did not the rebellious Israelites ask you, ‘What are you doing?’" 
Ezekiel12:10 Answer them with these words: ‘Lord Yahweh says to you that this prophetic oracle from God concerns the ruler in Jerusalem and all the people who live there.’ 
Ezekiel12:11 “Tell them, ‘I am a sign for you, for what I did is what is going to happen to them.’ They will be deported into exile." 
Ezekiel12:12 Their ruler will shoulder his pack, and they will dig a hole in the wall to let him out at night. He will cover his face so that he cannot see the land he is leaving." 
Ezekiel12:13 I will throw my net over him and trap him in it. I will take him to Babylon, to the land of the Chaldeans, where he will die without having seen it." 
Ezekiel12:14 And I will scatter in every direction all his attendants, officials, and his armies, and I will chase after them with the sword." 
Ezekiel12:15 When I scatter them among different nations and peoples, they will recognize that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel12:16 But I will let a few of them escape the sword, plague, and food shortages. I will let them live so that they can describe all their terrible actions to the people in the lands where they will go. And they will recognize that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel12:17 Then Yahweh spoke to me, saying:" 
Ezekiel12:18 “Son of man, eat your food with quaking and trembling. Shudder with fear as you drink your water." 
Ezekiel12:19 Tell the people, ‘Lord Yahweh says this to the inhabitants of Jerusalem who remain in the land of Israel. They will tremble as they eat their food, and shake with fear when they drink their water because their enemies will strip the land bare on account of the violence of those who live there." 
Ezekiel12:20 When your populous cities have been destroyed and the countryside has been deserted, then you will recognize that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel12:21 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel12:22 “Son of man, what do you understand of the proverb you say among yourselves in the land of Israel, ‘Time goes by, and these visions never happen’?" 
Ezekiel12:23 Very well, tell them, ‘Lord Yahweh says this: I will put an end to this proverb, and it will never be repeated in Israel again.’ Tell them instead: ‘The time has arrived for every vision to come true," 
Ezekiel12:24 for there will be no more false visions or deceptive prophecy among the people of Israel. 
Ezekiel12:25 I, Yahweh, will speak the word, and what I say will come true without delay. For what I speak, I will accomplish in your own lifetime, you tribe of rebels. For I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken!’ ”" 
Ezekiel12:26 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel12:27 “Son of man, behold, the people of Israel are saying that your visions and prophecies are about the distant future, not today. They say, ‘He is prophesying of times in the distant future.’" 
Ezekiel12:28 So tell them, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: There will be no more delay. My words will be fulfilled now! What I have prophesied will be done. Lord Yahweh has spoken!’ ”" 
Ezekiel13:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel13:2 “Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who claim to speak for me but are prophesying out of their own imagination. Say to them: ‘Listen, you lying prophets, to the words of Yahweh," 
Ezekiel13:3 for the Lord Yahweh has a message for you. “ ‘Disaster is in store for the wicked prophets who make up their own visions, but they have seen and heard nothing!" 
Ezekiel13:4 Israel, your prophets have been like scavengers prowling among the city ruins." 
Ezekiel13:5 They have not denounced the people’s sin or warned them of trouble coming so that Israel might stand up in battle on the day of Yahweh. 
Ezekiel13:6 Their visions are phony and their prophecies of what is coming are lies. They say, “ Yahweh says,” when I, Yahweh, did not send them with my message, and yet they actually expect me to fulfill their words!" 
Ezekiel13:7 Have you not seen false visions and prophesied false prophecies of the future? You declare: “This is what Yahweh says,” when I had not spoken." 
Ezekiel13:8 “ ‘Therefore, Lord Yahweh says to you: Because you have spoken your false prophecies and lying visions, behold, I am against you, says Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:9 I will punish the false prophets who see false visions and speak lies about what they see coming in the future. They will no longer belong to my council of elders, nor will their names be inscribed in the register of the people of Israel, nor will they ever return to the land of Israel. And then the people will know for sure that I am Lord Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel13:10 “ ‘For in truth, they have gravely misled my people, saying, “Everything is fine,” when devastation is at hand. When the false build a “wall of words ” they cover it with the whitewash of their lies." 
Ezekiel13:11 Prophesy to those who do so that their wall will fall! For I will send a stormy wind that will break loose with a deluge of rain and great hailstones. 
Ezekiel13:12 And down will come the wall! When it crumbles, will not the people say to you, “Where’s that whitewashed wall of yours now?”" 
Ezekiel13:13 “ ‘Therefore this is what I, Lord Yahweh, say to you: My anger will break forth as a windstorm and my wrath will break loose like a torrential rain, and I will send great hailstones to destroy your wall!" 
Ezekiel13:14 Yes, I will level this plastered wall to the ground and lay bare its flimsy foundation. And when it crumbles, you, too, will crumble and perish. And then you will realize that I am Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel13:15 “ ‘For then my wrath will be spent against the wall and upon those who have smeared it with plaster. And I will say to you, “The wall is gone, and so are those who smeared plaster over it." 
Ezekiel13:16 Those prophets of Israel who prophesied that Jerusalem would be fine, when devastation was near, will be no more!” For I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel13:17 “As for you, son of man, prophesy against the women of your people, who are witches masquerading as prophets. For they prophesy out of their own imagination. Prophesy against them" 
Ezekiel13:18 and say, ‘Hear what Lord Yahweh says to you: You women are doomed who sew magic bands on their wrists and make veils of varying sizes for their heads in order to ensnare the lives of people, young and old. Do you think you can get away with entrapping the lives of my people and still preserve your own lives?" 
Ezekiel13:19 You have dishonored my name among my people for a few handfuls of barley and a few pieces of bread. You put to death people who should not have died and kept alive people who should not have lived, because you lied to my people, and they listened to your lies!" 
Ezekiel13:20 “ ‘Therefore I, Lord Yahweh, say to you: I am against your wristbands with which you ensnare people’s souls. I will tear them from your arms! And I will let your victims go free, those whom you hunt down like birds." 
Ezekiel13:21 I will rip off your scarves and deliver my people from your hands. They will no longer be trapped by your power, and then you will know for sure that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel13:22 By your lies you have made righteous people greatly discouraged (although I have not discouraged them). And by your lies you have encouraged the wicked not to repent from their wicked ways and save their lives. 
Ezekiel13:23 Therefore you will no longer conjure up false visions or practice witchcraft. I will rescue my people from your deceptive power. And then you will know without a doubt that I am Yahweh.’ ” 
Ezekiel14:1 One day, some leaders of Israel came to me to consult about what God was saying. While they were sitting there with me," 
Ezekiel14:2 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel14:3 “Son of man, these men have set up idols deep within their hearts. And they have set idols before their eyes, so why should I let them ask me anything?" 
Ezekiel14:4 So tell them this, ‘Lord Yahweh says: If any Israelite comes to consult with the prophet despite a heart that worships idols and eyes looking on that which leads into wickedness, I, Yahweh, will answer that person directly. I will give the answer that is deserved because of the great extent of the idolatry." 
Ezekiel14:5 And in this way I hope to capture the hearts of the people of Israel who have all been estranged because of all their idols.’ 
Ezekiel14:6 “Therefore, prophesy to the people of Israel, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Repent! Come back to me and forsake your idols. Once and for all, turn your backs on all your detestable practices." 
Ezekiel14:7 If any Israelite or a foreigner living among you rejects me with idolatry of the heart and has intentionally gazed on that which leads into wickedness, yet goes to consult with a prophet, then, I, Yahweh, will answer that person myself." 
Ezekiel14:8 I will oppose that person! I will cut the idolator off from my people as an example and a warning to others. And then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel14:9 And if the prophet is tricked into speaking a prophetic word, it is I, Yahweh, who allowed this to happen, for I have decided to punish him with death." 
Ezekiel14:10 Both the prophet and the one who consults him will be equally punished for their guilt. 
Ezekiel14:11 I will do this so that they will never stray from me again or defile themselves with their rebellion. Then they will be my faithful people, and I will be their faithful God. For I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel14:12 Yahweh spoke to me, saying:" 
Ezekiel14:13 “Son of man, suppose all the people living in a certain country wander from me in pursuit of their sin, then I decide to come against them. I would punish them by destroying their food supply, inflicting famine on them, and causing people and animals to starve to death." 
Ezekiel14:14 Even if the three godly men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, all lived there, their righteous lives could only save themselves—no one else. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel14:14 Even if the three godly men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, all lived there, their righteous lives could only save themselves—no one else. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel14:14 Even if the three godly men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, all lived there, their righteous lives could only save themselves—no one else. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel14:15 “Or suppose I unleash wild animals on that country to roam through the land killing its people, making the land so dangerous that no one would dare pass through it." 
Ezekiel14:16 Even if these three godly men lived there, as surely as I, Lord Yahweh, am the living God, they would not be able to save even their own children. They alone would be spared, and the country would become a desert." 
Ezekiel14:17 “Or suppose I were to bring war upon that country, sending enemies with swords to devastate the land and wipe out both people and animals." 
Ezekiel14:18 Even if these three godly men lived there, as surely as I, Lord Yahweh, am the living God, they would not be able to save either son or daughter; they alone would be saved." 
Ezekiel14:19 “Or suppose I were to send a pandemic on that country and pour out my wrath upon the people with a bloody death and wipe out both people and animals. 
Ezekiel14:20 Even if Noah, Daniel, and Job lived there, as surely as I, Lord Yahweh, am the living God—their righteousness would only be able to save themselves and not even their own children.”" 
Ezekiel14:20 Even if Noah, Daniel, and Job lived there, as surely as I, Lord Yahweh, am the living God—their righteousness would only be able to save themselves and not even their own children.”" 
Ezekiel14:20 Even if Noah, Daniel, and Job lived there, as surely as I, Lord Yahweh, am the living God—their righteousness would only be able to save themselves and not even their own children.”" 
Ezekiel14:21 Lord Yahweh spoke to me, saying, “How much worse it will be for Jerusalem when I send my four dreadful scourges—sword, famine, wild animals, and pandemic—to destroy both people and animals." 
Ezekiel14:22 Even so, there will be a remnant left, a few who survive. Enemy soldiers will bring your wicked sons and daughters out of the city, and they will be brought here to Babylon. When you see them and realize how sinful are their ways and deeds, then you will not feel so sad when you understand that I, Yahweh, brought all these disasters upon Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel14:23 You will feel better when you see their evil way of life and actions, for then you will realize that I had a good reason to do what I did. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel15:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying:" 
Ezekiel15:2 “Son of man, how is the wood of the grapevine different than that of other tree branches of the forest?" 
Ezekiel15:3 Can its wood be used for making anything? Can it be used as pegs to hang things on? 
Ezekiel15:4 Look, it is good only for building a fire. When fire burns off both ends and the middle is charred, is it useful for anything?" 
Ezekiel15:5 Even while it was intact, you could make nothing with it. When it’s burned and charred, it’s even more worthless.”" 
Ezekiel15:6 So, Lord Yahweh says: “Just like I made the wood of the vine only useful as firewood, so I will treat the people of Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel15:7 I will oppose them! They may have escaped one fire, but another fire will yet devour them. When I set my face against them, then you will know that I am Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel15:8 Because of their unfaithfulness and infidelity, I will reduce the land to a desert. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel16:1 Yahweh spoke again to me, saying," 
Ezekiel16:2 “Son of man, confront Jerusalem concerning all the despicable things they have done." 
Ezekiel16:3 Tell them, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Your ancestral origins were in the land where the Canaanites lived. Your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite." 
Ezekiel16:4 On the day you were born, there was no one there to cut your umbilical cord or wash you clean in water. There was no one there to rub you with salt and oil or wrap you in a baby blanket." 
Ezekiel16:5 No one did anything to help you. No one felt sorry for you or showed sympathy for you. Instead, you were dumped into an open field and forgotten. From the day you were born you were rejected and unloved.’ ”" 
Ezekiel16:6 “ ‘Then I passed by, and I saw you there squirming in your blood. And as you lay there covered with blood, I spoke over you: “Live!”" 
Ezekiel16:7 And I made you grow and flourish like the grass of the fields. You grew up and developed until you produced the most beautiful of features. You developed the breasts and hair of a young woman, but you were still quite naked and exposed." 
Ezekiel16:8 Then later, I passed by again and looked upon you. And behold, I saw that your time had come—you were now old enough for love. So, I spread the edge of my robe over you and covered your nakedness. I gave you my sacred oath. I, Lord Yahweh, made a divine covenant with you, saying, “You will be mine,” and I took you as my own and promised to care for you." 
Ezekiel16:9 Then I washed the blood off you and anointed you with fragrant oil. 
Ezekiel16:10 I dressed you in beautiful, embroidered gowns, fine leather shoes, a fine linen headband, and wrapped you in rich fabric." 
Ezekiel16:11 I adorned you with jewels, beautiful bracelets, and necklaces." 
Ezekiel16:12 I gave you a nose ring and earrings and placed a sparkling crown on your head. 
Ezekiel16:13 You were decked with gold and silver jewelry and dressed in luxurious linen and rich embroidered cloth. Your meals were feasts, made with the best bread, honey, and oil. You grew more and more beautiful, and you rose to be queen." 
Ezekiel16:14 And you became famous throughout the world because the splendor I lavished on you made your beauty perfect, declares Lord Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel16:15 “ ‘But you became confident in your own beauty and used your fame to act like a prostitute. You offered your sexual favors to each one who came along—and you became his! 
Ezekiel16:16 You took some of your fine clothes to decorate the tents on the high places where you worked as a prostitute. 
Ezekiel16:17 You also took your gold and silver jewelry, which I had given you, and made yourself male images and acted like a prostitute with them." 
Ezekiel16:18 You took your embroidered clothes and used these to dress them up, and you offered them my sacred oil and my sacred incense." 
Ezekiel16:19 I gave you food made with the best flour, olive oil, and honey. But you offered it as a fragrant incense to these idols. I, Lord Yahweh, declare: that is exactly what you did!" 
Ezekiel16:20 You even took the sons and daughters I had given you and sacrificed them as food for the idols. As if your prostitution was not bad enough," 
Ezekiel16:21 you slaughtered my children and burned them as offerings to idols! 
Ezekiel16:22 While you were doing the things I hate and behaving like a prostitute, you entirely forgot how you were when you were young. I found you naked and exposed, squirming in your own blood." 
Ezekiel16:23 “ ‘Now I, Lord Yahweh, say you are doomed! Not only did you do these evil things," 
Ezekiel16:24 in every city square you built an elevated shrine for the worship of idols. 
Ezekiel16:25 At the entry to every alley you put up your brothel and dragged your beauty through the mud. You spread your legs to all who passed by in countless acts of prostitution. 
Ezekiel16:26 You slept with your well-endowed neighbors, the Egyptians, provoking my anger with your lifestyle of a prostitute." 
Ezekiel16:27 So listen, I have taken action to punish you and remove your portion of my blessing. I have put you at the mercy of your enemies, the Philistine women, who blushed over your lewd behavior." 
Ezekiel16:28 Still unsatisfied, you prostituted yourself to the Assyrians and played the harlot with them. But even then, you were not satisfied." 
Ezekiel16:29 You committed further acts of fornication with the Babylonians, that nation of merchants, but that still did not satisfy you.’ ”" 
Ezekiel16:30 “ ‘I, Lord Yahweh, say: You make me extremely angry because of all these things that you have done. You have acted like a brazen prostitute who has no shame." 
Ezekiel16:31 You built an elevated shrine on every street to worship idols, put up your pavilion in every public square. But you are not like a common prostitute just out for the money." 
Ezekiel16:32 You are an adulterous wife who would rather have sex with strangers than her husband. 
Ezekiel16:33 Men will pay a prostitute, but you give presents to all your lovers! You bribe them to come from everywhere just to sleep with you." 
Ezekiel16:34 You are so different from other prostitutes. No one came to ask you for sex. The men you slept with did not pay you, but you paid them. Therefore, you are worse than a prostitute!’ ”" 
Ezekiel16:35 “ ‘Very well, Jerusalem, you whore! Hear the word of Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel16:36 Lord Yahweh says to you: You poured out your lust and are ready for sex. As a prostitute, you uncovered your genitals for your lovers and for all those disgusting idols. You killed your children to honor those false gods." 
Ezekiel16:37 “ ‘Behold, I will bring together all your lovers to whom you gave pleasure—all those you loved and all those you hated. Yes, I will bring them from everywhere, and I will strip you naked in front of them and let them see your genitals." 
Ezekiel16:38 “ ‘I will judge you with the same death sentence of an adulterer or murderer and bring upon you the fury of my burning rage. 
Ezekiel16:39 I will hand you over to your “lovers,” and they will destroy your elevated chamber and pull down your sacred shrines. They will strip you of your clothes, take away your lovely jewels, and leave you stark naked." 
Ezekiel16:40 Then they will gather an angry mob against you who will stone you to death and hack you to pieces with their swords. 
Ezekiel16:41 They will burn down your homes and execute justice on you while many other women look on. I will once and for all put an end to your wicked harlotry—no more paid lovers for you! 
Ezekiel16:42 “ ‘Once my fury is exhausted with you, I will calm down and let my anger die away. Then I will not be angry anymore." 
Ezekiel16:43 You have entirely forgotten how I treated you when you were young. And you have done nothing but provoke me, so now I, in turn, will cause you to suffer the consequences for your own behavior. And haven’t you committed such gross lewdness in addition to all your other shocking sins? I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel16:44 Yahweh says, “Behold, all who quote proverbs will surely apply this proverb to you, Jerusalem: Like mother, like daughter." 
Ezekiel16:45 Yes; you are a daughter exactly like your pagan mother, who hated her husband and her children. And you have become exactly like your sisters, who hated their husbands and their children. You and your sister cities had a Hittite mother and an Amorite father." 
Ezekiel16:46 Your big sister is Samaria with her daughter- villages to the north of you. Your little sister is Sodom with her daughter- villages to the south of you. 
Ezekiel16:47 Yet you were not satisfied to live as the people of Samaria and Sodom lived, copying all their wicked ways and imitating their loathsome practices. In very little time, you became more wicked than they were in all your ways." 
Ezekiel16:48 As surely as I, Lord Yahweh, live, your sister Sodom and her daughters never did the evil that you and your daughters have done." 
Ezekiel16:49 Behold, the guilt of your sister Sodom! She and her daughters were arrogant, gluttonous, and lived in carefree complacency. They never thought to help the poor and needy." 
Ezekiel16:50 They were proud, stubborn, and defiantly evil before me, and so I swept them away as you have seen." 
Ezekiel16:51 And yet Samaria never committed half the sins that you have. You have done more detestable things than they. When compared to all your gross practices, you have made your sisters seem innocent!" 
Ezekiel16:52 So now you will bear the shame of your deeds, which provides a measure of justification for your sisters, since your sins are viler than theirs. They now appear more upright than you are. So, suffer the utter disgrace and humiliation of having made your sisters appear more righteous than you!" 
Ezekiel16:53 “I will restore their fortunes; I will restore Sodom and her daughters. I will restore Samaria and her daughters, and then I will also restore your fortunes along with them." 
Ezekiel16:54 You will be totally ashamed of yourself and bear disgrace for all you have done in giving them comfort. 
Ezekiel16:55 When your sisters, Sodom and her daughter-villages and Samaria and her daughter-villages, are restored to what they were, then you, too, and your surrounding villages will be restored to what you were." 
Ezekiel16:56 Jerusalem, did you not gloat in your pride over your sister Sodom" 
Ezekiel16:57 before your wickedness was uncovered? Now you are just like her! You have become the laughingstock of the Philistines, the Syrians, and all your neighbors who hate you and heap scorn on you." 
Ezekiel16:58 You have brought this on yourself with your lewdness and your disgusting deeds. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel16:59 “For I, Lord Yahweh say to you: I will treat you as you deserve, for you have broken your marriage covenant and despised your promises to me." 
Ezekiel16:60 But I will remember my covenant that I made with you in the days of your youth. I will renew that covenant with you, and it will last forever." 
Ezekiel16:61 When you get back your older and younger sisters, then you will remember your ways and feel ashamed. I will make them like daughters to you, but not on the basis of my new covenant with you." 
Ezekiel16:62 Yes, I will graciously renew my covenant with you, and then you will know me as Yahweh -God." 
Ezekiel16:63 You may remember your wretched past and feel deep remorse, yet you will be reduced to silence when you realize that I have forgiven you for everything you have done. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel17:1 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel17:2 “Son of man, propose this riddle to Israel, and speak this parable to the people." 
Ezekiel17:3 Tell them to guess the meaning of what I, Yahweh, have to say to them: “There once was this great eagle with huge wings, whose wingspan was very wide, with many beautiful colored feathers around its head. One day he came to the Lebanon Mountains, and taking a new branch of a cedar tree," 
Ezekiel17:4 he broke it off and carried it off to a land of traders. He planted it there in a city of merchants. 
Ezekiel17:5 Next, he took a young seedling from the land and planted it in a fertile field. He placed it like a willow tree by the side of a flowing stream." 
Ezekiel17:6 The young plant sprouted until it became a low spreading vine. Its branches grew up toward the great eagle, and its roots grew down deep into the soil. So, it became a vine, branching out and sprouting new shoots." 
Ezekiel17:7 But another great eagle appeared with huge wings and many feathers around its head. And soon the vine bent its roots toward him and stretched its branches toward this eagle from the place where it was planted, expecting this eagle to nourish it." 
Ezekiel17:8 The vine was planted in good soil, by the side of a generous stream so that the vine could branch out, bear fruit, and become a wonderful vine." 
Ezekiel17:9 So I, Lord Yahweh, ask you: Will the vine thrive? Will not the first eagle come and tear out its roots? Will it not strip off its grapes so that all its foliage withers? Then, even weak ones could easily uproot it!" 
Ezekiel17:10 Yes, it is planted—but will it thrive? Will it not shrivel up when the east wind blows? Will it not wither in the fertile soil where it had grown?”" 
Ezekiel17:11 Then Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel17:12 “Ask that tribe of rebels if they know the meaning of my parable. Tell them: ‘Listen, the king of Babylon swooped into Jerusalem. Then he carried away the king and top officials and took them off to Babylon." 
Ezekiel17:13 He took one from the royal family and made a treaty with him, forcing him to swear an oath of allegiance to him. He also carried off to Babylon the leading men of Israel" 
Ezekiel17:14 so that their kingdom would be humbled and not rise again and to ensure that the treaty would be kept. 
Ezekiel17:15 But he rebelled against Nebuchadnezzar and sent envoys to Egypt to procure himself horses and a large army. Will he get away with that? Will a man who has done this go unpunished? Will he break the treaty and still escape? 
Ezekiel17:16 As surely as I, Lord Yahweh, live, this king will die in Babylon! He will die in the country of the king who put him on the throne, because he despised his oath and broke the treaty he had made." 
Ezekiel17:17 Despite Pharaoh’s mighty army and numerous troops, he will not be able to save him in war. When the Babylonians build siege ramps and wooden towers to kill many in the city, the Egyptians will not lift a finger to help!" 
Ezekiel17:18 For he despised his oath by breaking the treaty to which he had pledged himself, and he will not go unpunished." 
Ezekiel17:19 “ ‘Therefore, I, Lord Yahweh, decree, as surely as I live, I swear it. It was my oath that he has despised and my treaty which he has broken. I will punish him for this!" 
Ezekiel17:20 I will throw my net over him and trap him in it. I will take him to Babylon and render judgment against him there for all the wicked things he did against me. 
Ezekiel17:21 All his elite troops will fall by the sword, and the survivors will be scattered in every direction. And then you will know that I, Yahweh, have decreed it.’ ”" 
Ezekiel17:22 Lord Yahweh says: “I will take the highest branch from a cedar tree. I will break off from the very top a tender shoot and plant it myself on a high and lofty mountain. 
Ezekiel17:23 I will plant it on the highest mountain in Israel, where it will put out branches and bear fruit and grow into a stately cedar tree. Every kind of bird will find a home in it. Yes, in the shade of its branches the birds will make their nests." 
Ezekiel17:24 And all the trees of the field will know that I, Yahweh, am the one who brings the tall tree low and raises the low tree high, who withers the green tree and makes the withered tree sprout again. I, Yahweh, have spoken and have done it!”" 
Ezekiel18:1 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel18:2 “Why do you keep repeating this proverb in the land of Israel: “The parents have eaten sour grapes, but the children are the ones with the sour taste in their mouths?" 
Ezekiel18:3 “As I, Lord Yahweh, live, you will have no reason to repeat this proverb in Israel." 
Ezekiel18:4 Listen, every human life belongs to me; both the parent and the child are mine. The one who sins is held responsible and will die.”" 
Ezekiel18:5 “Suppose a man is morally good, and his actions are righteous and honest." 
Ezekiel18:6 He does not take part in the heathen feasts on the mountains nor worship the false gods of the people of Israel. He does not commit adultery nor have sex with a woman during her period. 
Ezekiel18:7 He exploits and defrauds no one. He does not steal but generously feeds the hungry and clothes the needy. 
Ezekiel18:8 He does not lend at interest or take any profit. He refuses to do anything evil and gives honest judgment between one person and another. 
Ezekiel18:9 He keeps my laws and is honest in all that he does. A person like this is righteous, and he will certainly live. I, Lord Yahweh, have decreed it." 
Ezekiel18:10 “But suppose he has a son who is prone to violence and bloodshed," 
Ezekiel18:11 doing what his father never did. He takes part in the heathen feasts on the mountains, commits adultery," 
Ezekiel18:12 exploits the poor and needy, robs, and defrauds others. He worships the false gods and engages in despicable practices" 
Ezekiel18:13 and charges exorbitant interest for profit when lending money—such a person will by no means live. Because he committed all these appalling deeds, he will surely be put to death, and he alone will be responsible for his own death." 
Ezekiel18:14 “But suppose this evil man has a son who sees all the sins his father practiced, yet chooses not to follow his poor example" 
Ezekiel18:15 and refuses to take part in the heathen feasts on the mountains or worship the false gods of the people of Israel. He does not seduce another man’s wife," 
Ezekiel18:16 nor exploit nor defraud anyone. He does not steal but feeds the hungry and clothes the needy. 
Ezekiel18:17 He refuses to do anything evil and does not lend for profit or charge exorbitant interest. He faithfully keeps my laws and teachings—such a person will certainly live and not die for his father’s sins. 
Ezekiel18:18 As for his father, because he practiced fraud, cheated, and robbed others, doing what is wrong among his people, he will most certainly die in his guilt." 
Ezekiel18:19 “Yet you ask, ‘Why doesn’t the child bear his father’s guilt?’ If a person lives an honest and upright life and keeps my laws and faithfully follows my teachings, he will most certainly live." 
Ezekiel18:20 It is the one who sins who will die. A child is not to bear his father’s guilt nor a father his child’s guilt. Good people will be credited for their own righteousness and the wicked with his own wickedness.” 
Ezekiel18:21 “However, if the wicked man renounces all the sins he has committed, obeys my laws, and does what is fair and upright, he will most certainly live and will not die." 
Ezekiel18:22 I will not remember any of the sins he committed in the past. Because he has done what is right, he will most certainly live." 
Ezekiel18:23 I, Lord Yahweh, say: Do you think I enjoy seeing the wicked die? I would much rather see him renounce his sins and live!" 
Ezekiel18:24 “However, if the righteous man abandons his righteous ways and acts wickedly, and follows all the despicable practices of the wicked, should he be allowed to live? None of his righteous deeds will be remembered from then on, for he is guilty of being unfaithful to me, and he will most certainly die." 
Ezekiel18:25 “But you complain, ‘The Lord is being unfair. That’s not right.’ Now people of Israel, listen to me: Do you think my way of doing things is unjust? Aren’t you the ones who are acting unjustly?" 
Ezekiel18:26 When the righteous man abandons his righteous ways, does what is evil, and dies, he dies responsible for the wrong that he himself committed." 
Ezekiel18:27 Similarly, when the wicked man abandons his wicked ways to do what is good and right, he saves his own life." 
Ezekiel18:28 Having considered his ways and having chosen to renounce all his former sins, he will most certainly live and not die." 
Ezekiel18:29 And yet the people of Israel say, ‘What the Lord does is not just.’ Really? What I do is not just, people of Israel? Aren’t you the ones who are acting unjustly?" 
Ezekiel18:30 So from here on, you people of Israel, I, Lord Yahweh, say to you: I will judge each of you by what he does. Repent, turn away from all your sins, or your own wickedness will be your downfall." 
Ezekiel18:31 You must get rid of all the guilty sins you have committed and clothe yourselves with a new heart and a new spirit. People of Israel, choose life!" 
Ezekiel18:32 I find no pleasure watching anyone die, so repent and live! I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel19:1 “Now Ezekiel, sing this funeral song to mourn the rulers of Israel," 
Ezekiel19:2 saying, “ ‘What a lioness was your mother among lions! She lay down among the young lions and reared her cubs." 
Ezekiel19:3 One of the cubs she raised grew into a young and powerful man-eating lion who learned to hunt and devour his prey. 
Ezekiel19:4 The nations heard about him, and they trapped him in their pit. With hooks they dragged him off to Egypt." 
Ezekiel19:5 When she realized that he was not coming back, she despaired and her hopes were dashed. She chose another of her cubs to take his place and made a powerful lion of him too." 
Ezekiel19:6 He prowled among the pride and grew into a powerful man-eating lion, who learned to hunt and devour his prey." 
Ezekiel19:7 He demolished their strongholds and destroyed their cities. Whenever the lion released his roar, the land and all the people were terrified!" 
Ezekiel19:8 The nations marched out against him from all around. They threw their net over him, and he was trapped in their pit." 
Ezekiel19:9 With their hooks they captured him, led him with bands around his neck to the king of Babylon. They threw him into a dungeon so that his roar could never be heard again on the mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel19:10 “ ‘Your mother was like a grapevine planted beside a stream, with luscious fruit and full of branches, because the water flowed so abundantly." 
Ezekiel19:11 She grew strong branches, and some grew very high, which became royal scepters. The vine grew higher and higher, up into the clouds. Everyone could see her towering height and the vast number of her branches." 
Ezekiel19:12 But disaster struck the vine. Angry, mighty hands pulled it up by its roots and threw it to the ground. The hot east wind dried it up, and her fruit shriveled and fell to the ground. Her strong stem was withered and was consumed by the fire." 
Ezekiel19:13 Now what remains of her has been transplanted to the desert, to a dry and thirsty land." 
Ezekiel19:14 Fire spread from her stem and devoured its fruit. There is not a strong branch left that could become a scepter for a king.’ ” This is a funeral song of lament, and it should be used as such." 
Ezekiel20:1 It was the seventh year, the fifth month, and the tenth day after our deportation to Babylon. Some of the elders of Israel came to request that I ask Yahweh for his message to them. As we sat together," 
Ezekiel20:2 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel20:3 “Son of man, give the elders of Israel this message: ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Are you really coming to consult with me? As surely as I live, I will tell you nothing. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel20:4 Then he said to me, “Judge them, Ezekiel! Bring a charge against them, son of man! Confront them over the disgusting practices of their ancestors!" 
Ezekiel20:5 Tell them what I, Lord Yahweh, say: ‘On the day when I chose Israel to be my people, I pledged my word to the tribes of Jacob, and I revealed myself to them in Egypt. I pledged my word to them and said: I am Yahweh your God." 
Ezekiel20:6 That day I promised that I would bring them out of Egypt to a land I had searched out especially for them—a land flowing with milk and honey, the most splendid land of all." 
Ezekiel20:7 And I said to them, “Every one of you, get rid of the things you love that I hate. Don’t make yourselves unfit for my presence by worshiping the idols of Egypt. For I am Yahweh your God.”" 
Ezekiel20:8 But they rebelled against me and refused to listen to me. Not one of them rejected the detestable things their eyes feasted on, nor did they give up the idols of Egypt. So in my anger, I decided to pour out my wrath on them and vent my anger against them in the midst of Egypt.’" 
Ezekiel20:9 I acted to protect the honor of my name, so that I would not be profaned in the eyes of the surrounding nations who saw me reveal myself by bringing the Israelites out of Egypt.”" 
Ezekiel20:10 “So I brought them out of Egypt and led them into the desert. 
Ezekiel20:11 I gave them my laws and taught them my commands, so that they would follow them and live by them." 
Ezekiel20:12 And I also gave them my Sabbaths as a sign between me and them so that they might know that I, Yahweh, am the one who sets them apart as my own." 
Ezekiel20:13 But the Israelites rebelled against me in the wilderness and refused to keep my laws and rejected my commands (the one who obeys my laws will live by them), and they completely dishonored my Sabbaths. I was about to vent my fury on them in the desert and destroy them." 
Ezekiel20:14 But I chose to withhold my punishment for the sake of my holy name, that it not be profaned in the eyes of the nations who had seen my power in bringing the Israelites out of Egypt." 
Ezekiel20:15 So, I made a vow in the desert that I would not bring that generation into the most splendid land that I had given them, a land flowing with milk and honey." 
Ezekiel20:16 For they had scorned my commands, refused to keep my laws, dishonored my Sabbaths, and their hearts were attached to idols." 
Ezekiel20:17 In spite of this, I took pity on them, so I spared them from destruction and did not make an end of them in the desert." 
Ezekiel20:18 “I warned their children in the wilderness: ‘Do not follow the ways of your ancestors, do not practice their standard of justice, and do not defile yourselves with their foul idols." 
Ezekiel20:19 I am Yahweh your God. Keep my laws, obey my commands, and follow them." 
Ezekiel20:20 Keep my Sabbaths as holy days. Let them be a covenant -sign between me and you, to remind you that I am Yahweh your God.’" 
Ezekiel20:21 “However, like their parents, the next generation rebelled against me; they refused to keep my laws and did not respect or practice my standard of justice so that they would follow my laws and live by them. They also dishonored my Sabbaths. So, in my fury I decided to punish them and pour out my anger on them in the desert." 
Ezekiel20:22 But I restrained myself to protect the honor of my name so that I would not be profaned in the eyes of the surrounding nations who saw me reveal myself by bringing the Israelites out of Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:23 Moreover, I made a vow to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them throughout the nations and disperse them into foreign countries." 
Ezekiel20:24 I did this because they had broken my laws, refused to obey my commands, dishonored my Sabbaths, and their hearts chased after the idols of their ancestors." 
Ezekiel20:25 And for this reason I gave them laws and regulations that resulted in punishment, not life." 
Ezekiel20:26 And because they sacrificed their firstborn children in the fire, I declared them defiled and unfit to worship me. I did this to fill them with revulsion so that they would know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel20:27 “Therefore, son of man, speak to the people of Israel in exile and say to them, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Here is another instance of your ancestors blaspheming me by their infidelity." 
Ezekiel20:28 When I had brought them into the promised land, they discovered all sorts of high hills and all kinds of spreading trees. That is where they offered sacrifices and made offerings to false gods that provoked my anger. That is where they burned incense and poured out drink offerings to false gods." 
Ezekiel20:29 So I asked them: What is this high place where you go?’ ” (So its name is called High Place to this day.) 
Ezekiel20:30 “Say to the Israelites in exile, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Will you defile yourselves in the same way your ancestors did and act like a prostitute with your idol worship?" 
Ezekiel20:31 For when you offer your gifts and sacrifice your children as sacrifices by fire, you defile yourselves with all your idol worship to this very day. Do you think you can come and consult with me? As surely as I live, I will not answer you. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken!" 
Ezekiel20:32 “ ‘You are saying that you want to worship idols of wood and stone and be like the nations around you. But what you have in mind will never happen. 
Ezekiel20:33 As surely as I, Lord Yahweh, live, I warn you: I will continue to rule over you with a strong hand and with all my power and my wrath poured out!’ ”" 
Ezekiel20:34 “ ‘You have been scattered into many different nations and lands. But with a strong hand and my mighty power and outpoured wrath, I will bring you back." 
Ezekiel20:35 I will bring you into the desert of many nations, and there I will enter into judgment with you face-to-face!" 
Ezekiel20:36 Just as I entered into judgment with your ancestors in the wilderness of Sinai, so I now judge you. I am Lord Yahweh, and I declare this to you." 
Ezekiel20:37 I will make you pass under the shepherd’s rod and take note of you, as a shepherd sorts his sheep. And I will bring you into the bond of the covenant." 
Ezekiel20:38 I will purge out the rebels from among you, those who sin against me. I will remove them from the land where they are exiled, but they will not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel20:39 And now, you people of Israel, Lord Yahweh says: Go ahead, all of you, worship your foul idols, if that’s what you want to do. But later you will have to listen and obey me! Then you will no longer dishonor my holy name by worshiping your foul idols and bringing your offerings to them.’ ”" 
Ezekiel20:40 “ ‘Lord Yahweh says: On the high mountain of Israel set apart for me, all the people of Israel—everyone in the land—will worship me. I will be pleased with you and accept your sacrifices to me. And there I will require your best offerings, all your best gifts dedicated to me, and your holy sacrifices." 
Ezekiel20:41 I will take you out from among the nations and lands where you have been scattered and gather you together. Then I will be pleased with you just as I am pleased with the sweet aroma of burning sacrifices. And I will put my holiness on display through you before the nations. 
Ezekiel20:42 And when I bring you back to the soil of Israel, the land that I pledged my word to give to your ancestors, you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel20:43 You will remember your ways and all the vile actions by which you have defiled yourselves, and you will be disgusted with yourselves for all the evil things you did." 
Ezekiel20:44 And when I deal with you, not as you deserve because of your wickedness, but in a way that brings honor to my name, then you, the people of Israel, will recognize that I am God. I, Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel20:45 Then Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel20:46 “Son of man, look toward the south and prophesy against the forests of the southern land." 
Ezekiel20:47 Prophesy to the southern forest, ‘Hear the word of Yahweh: Behold, I, Lord Yahweh, say to you that I am about to light a fire in you that will consume every green tree and every dry tree of your land! This blazing fire will not be extinguished as it spreads to the north and consumes everything in its path." 
Ezekiel20:48 Everyone will know that it was I, Yahweh, who started that fire, and no one will ever be able to put it out.’ ”" 
Ezekiel20:49 But I protested and said, “But Lord Yahweh, everyone is already complaining that I only speak in riddles.”" 
Ezekiel21:1 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel21:2 “Son of man, turn toward Jerusalem and denounce her place of worship. Prophesy against the land of Israel" 
Ezekiel21:3 and say to the people, ‘ Yahweh says to you: I am your enemy, and I am about to draw my sword and destroy the good and evil alike." 
Ezekiel21:4 I am going to use my drawn sword to cut off the upright and wicked alike, everyone alive from the south to the north." 
Ezekiel21:5 Then everyone will know that I, Yahweh, am the one who has unsheathed my sword, and I will not put it back again!’" 
Ezekiel21:6 “Son of man, groan with bitter grief before their eyes. Groan as though your heart is breaking with sorrow." 
Ezekiel21:7 And when they ask, ‘Why these groans?’ reply, ‘Because of what I’ve heard is about to happen. Every heart will melt with fear, and every hand grow limp. Everyone will faint with fright and wet themselves. Behold, it is coming now! It is here!’ I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel21:8 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel21:9 “Son of man, prophesy the message that I, the Lord, give you: “A sword, a sword of judgment has been sharpened and polished," 
Ezekiel21:10 sharpened for a great slaughter, polished to flash like lightning! Should we rejoice in the dynasty of my son, Judah? No! The sword despises every such stick." 
Ezekiel21:11 I handed over the sword for someone to polish so he can use it, sharp, shiny, and ready for the hand of the executioner." 
Ezekiel21:12 Shout and wail, son of man, for the sword will come against my people, and all the leaders of Israel. They are thrown to the sword like the rest of my people. So beat your breast in anguish," 
Ezekiel21:13 for surely, I am testing my people. What if the scepter of Judah, despised by the sword, does not survive? I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel21:14 “So prophesy, son of man, and strike hand to hand in anger! Let the sword strike twice, even three times. For the sword is prepared for those to be slain, a mighty sword to terrify, with a great slaughter from every side!" 
Ezekiel21:15 This sword will make them stumble and fall, and their hearts will melt with fear. I have posted the threatening sword at every gate to flash like lightning, polished for the slaughter." 
Ezekiel21:16 Slash to the right, and ready on the left, whichever way your blade turns!" 
Ezekiel21:17 I also will strike hand to hand in anger and satisfy my fury! I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel21:18 Then Yahweh said to me: 
Ezekiel21:19 “Son of man, mark out two roads for the king of Babylon to come with his sword; both should originate from the same land. Then put up a signpost at the place where the road branches off to the city." 
Ezekiel21:20 Mark out the routes for the sword to come to Rabbah-of-the-Ammonites, and to Judah, and its fortress of Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel21:21 For the king of Babylon is already at the place where the two roads begin. He is consulting his gods to decide which way to go by shuffling arrows and throwing them on the ground to see where they point. He asks his favorite idols for advice, and he examines the liver of a sacrificed animal." 
Ezekiel21:22 It tells him to take the road on the right leading to Jerusalem, so the king decides to go there. His plan is to ready the battering rams to be prepared when he gives the order for slaughter. His army will shout the battle cry and set up the battering rams against the gates. They will make siege ramps and construct siege towers." 
Ezekiel21:23 “The people of Jerusalem will believe that these omens are false, for they have made sworn treaties and think they are safe. But Nebuchadnezzar’s decision to attack will remind them of their sins against God, and as a result, they will be captured." 
Ezekiel21:24 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says, ‘You have uncovered your waywardness by parading all your evil deeds. You flaunt your sins in everything you do. Because of this, your enemies will capture you by force!" 
Ezekiel21:25 “ ‘As for you, wicked and unholy prince of Israel, Lord Yahweh has a message for you. Your doom is approaching. Your time is up, and I will put an end to your crimes. Take off your royal turban and remove your crown. Everything is about to be turned upside down. Lowly ones will be raised up, and those who seem important now will become nobodies." 
Ezekiel21:26  
Ezekiel21:27 A ruin, a ruin, I will make this city a ruin —until the one arrives, the rightful ruler. Then I will hand him the crown to rule.’ ”" 
Ezekiel21:28 “Son of man, prophesy and announce what I, Lord Yahweh, say to the mocking Ammonites: ‘A sword, a sword is drawn and ready for slaughter! It is a sharp, polished sword to flash like lightning and to destroy." 
Ezekiel21:29 The visions you had are false. When you consulted your gods about what would happen, their answers were lies. Your day of judgment has come! It’s high time for your punishment to reach its climax. The sword is going to cut off your heads!" 
Ezekiel21:30 “ ‘Put the sword back in its scabbard. I will punish you in the land where you were born, the land of your origin." 
Ezekiel21:31 I will vent my fury on you, blow the fire of my rage against you, and hand you over to brutal men whose skill is destruction." 
Ezekiel21:32 You will be fuel for the fire. Babylonian blood will flow in your homeland, and no one will remember anything about you. I, Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel22:1 Yahweh spoke to me again and said," 
Ezekiel22:2 “Son of man, are you ready to judge the city of murderers? You must confront her with all the disgusting things she has done!" 
Ezekiel22:3 Prophesy to the city what I, Lord Yahweh, say to them: ‘Jerusalem, you bring doom upon yourselves because you have shed the blood of so many. You are defiled by your man-made gods." 
Ezekiel22:4 You have become guilty by the blood you have shed and defiled by your hand-made gods. Your time is up! Your day of reckoning is on the way. Therefore, I have made you an object of scorn and a laughingstock to all the nations." 
Ezekiel22:5 Nations near and far will taunt you, O infamous city, full of turmoil." 
Ezekiel22:6 “ ‘Behold! The leaders of Israel within your walls, one and all, have selfishly abused their power to shed blood." 
Ezekiel22:7 They have despised their fathers and mothers, cheated the foreigners who live within your walls, and mistreated the widow and orphan." 
Ezekiel22:8 All that I call holy, you have treated with contempt. You have dishonored my Sabbaths." 
Ezekiel22:9 In your city are those who slander in order to have someone murdered. Living among you are those who eat food sacrificed to false gods in mountain shrines and commit obscene acts. 
Ezekiel22:10 Your men have sex with their father’s wives. They force themselves on women who are having their periods and are ceremonially unclean. 
Ezekiel22:11 In your city a man commits adultery with his neighbor’s wife, and another man seduces his daughter-in-law or sister, his own father’s daughter." 
Ezekiel22:12 Some of your people will murder for pay. Some extort their neighbors with threats of violence, charging them exorbitant interest for obscene profits, yet they have entirely forgotten about me! I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel22:13 “ ‘Now I will bring my fists down on your acts of robbery and murder in your midst! 
Ezekiel22:14 Do you think your courage will endure when I am through with you? Do you think your hands will remain steady on your day of reckoning? I, Yahweh, have spoken, and I will do it!" 
Ezekiel22:15 “ ‘I will scatter you among the nations and send you into exile to foreign countries. I will put an end to the uncleanness within you. 
Ezekiel22:16 Because of your own actions, you will be grossly defiled in the sight of the nations, and then you will understand and realize that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel22:17 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel22:18 “Son of man, for me, the people of Israel have become worthless dross. They all have become like the useless byproduct of refined silver, bronze, tin, iron, lead, all mixed up together and left in the smelter; they are dross." 
Ezekiel22:19 Therefore, I, Lord Yahweh, say to the people of Jerusalem, ‘Since you have all become worthless dross, leftover metal, I will collect you inside Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel22:20 Just as the metalsmith collects silver, bronze, iron, lead, and tin in the furnace, and the fire is fanned underneath to melt them down, so I will collect you there and melt you down in my furious anger." 
Ezekiel22:21 I will put you all in the furnace and fan the fire of my rage to burn against you. I will melt you there in the middle of the furnace. 
Ezekiel22:22 As silver is refined in the smelter, so you will be melted down inside the city, and you will understand and recognize that I, Yahweh, have vented my fury against you.’ ”" 
Ezekiel22:23 Yahweh spoke to me again and said: 
Ezekiel22:24 “Son of man, say to Israel, ‘You are a land that has had no shower nor cleansing rain on the day of my anger." 
Ezekiel22:25 Your prophets plot conspiracies as lions stalk their prey. They have devoured the people, enriched themselves by seizing their wealth and jewels, and left behind many widows." 
Ezekiel22:26 Her priests have violated my law and have no respect for what is holy. They have made no distinction between what is holy and what is common. They have not taught people the difference between clean and unclean; they ignore my Sabbaths, and I have been defiled among them." 
Ezekiel22:27 Within the land are leaders who are like a pack of wolves who rip apart their prey, shed blood, and kill people to get money dishonestly." 
Ezekiel22:28 Her false prophets have plastered over these things with their empty visions and false prophecies, saying: “ Yahweh says this,” even though I, Yahweh, have not spoken." 
Ezekiel22:29 The people of the land have practiced extortion and robbery! They have oppressed the poor and needy and mistreated the foreigner among them who have no way of getting justice.’ ” 
Ezekiel22:30 “I searched for someone who would repair the wall, one who fills the gap, an intercessor to cry out for mercy, but I found no one. There was no one found who would keep my justice from destroying the nation." 
Ezekiel22:31 So I will pour out my fury on them, and like a fire I will destroy them. I will punish them for the evil they have done. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel23:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel23:2 “Son of man, there once were two women, daughters of the same mother." 
Ezekiel23:3 While they were still girls, they became prostitutes in Egypt. Men caressed their breasts; their virgin breasts were first fondled there." 
Ezekiel23:4 Oholah (Samaria) was the older and Oholibah (Jerusalem) her younger sister. I married them both, and they bore me sons and daughters." 
Ezekiel23:5 “Although Oholah was mine, she continued her prostitution. She lusted after her lovers, the Assyrians—warriors" 
Ezekiel23:6 wearing uniforms of purple, governors, and officials. All of them were young and handsome and skilled horsemen." 
Ezekiel23:7 She was a prostitute for all the most important men of Assyria. She made herself unfit for my presence by worshiping all the idols of every man she had sex with. 
Ezekiel23:8 When she was a girl in Egypt, men fondled her breasts and made love to her often, pouring their lust upon her repeatedly. She did not give up her prostitution." 
Ezekiel23:9 “So I handed her over to the power of her lovers, to the Assyrians whom she lusted after." 
Ezekiel23:10 They stripped her naked, seized her sons and daughters, and killed her with the sword. She became notorious among women because of her punishment for her sins." 
Ezekiel23:11 “Her sister Oholibah saw all this, but she was even more depraved and a wilder prostitute than her sister." 
Ezekiel23:12 She lusted after the Assyrians—warriors dressed to perfection, governors, and officials. All of them were young and handsome and skilled horsemen." 
Ezekiel23:13 Then I saw that she was completely immoral; both sisters were equally corrupt. 
Ezekiel23:14 But Oholibah sank ever deeper into unrestrained sexual immorality, worse than ever. She saw the wall carvings of the Babylonian men, painted bright red, the images of the elite men of Babylon (natives of Chaldea), and her lust was enflamed even more. The men looked magnificent, like officers going into battle on their horses! They were the high-ranking Babylonian chariot officers with beautiful sashes tied around their waists and elaborate turbans on their heads." 
Ezekiel23:15  
Ezekiel23:16 As soon as she saw them, she went wild with lust and sent messengers to them in Babylon to come and have sex with her." 
Ezekiel23:17 The Babylonians came to her, shared her love-bed, and defiled her with their lust. Once they had defiled her, she withdrew her affection and turned her back on them." 
Ezekiel23:18 She exposed her naked body to everyone and showed them openly that she was a prostitute. Therefore, I turned my back on her just as I had done with her sister." 
Ezekiel23:19 Yet she began sinking even deeper into her depraved sexual immorality, acting the way she did when she was a young prostitute in Egypt." 
Ezekiel23:20 She was driven by insatiable lust for Egyptian men, with genitals as large as donkeys’, ejaculating as forcefully as stallions." 
Ezekiel23:21 In that way, you were longing to repeat the debauchery of your youth, when men used to fondle your nipples in Egypt and played with your young breasts.”" 
Ezekiel23:22 “And so, Oholibah, Lord Yahweh says to you: ‘Behold, I will stir up all your former lovers against you, from whom you have withdrawn your affection. I will bring them against you from every side:" 
Ezekiel23:23 the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, men of Pekod, Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them, young and handsome men, all governors, officials, and warriors—all of them skillful horsemen." 
Ezekiel23:24 They will attack you from the north and advance on you with chariots, wagons, and troops, setting themselves against you on all sides with shields and helmets. I will commit to them the right to judge you, and they will pass sentence on you as they see fit." 
Ezekiel23:25 I will direct my fiery indignation against you and let them treat you with fury. They will slice off your nose and ears, and what is left of your people will fall by the sword. They will capture your surviving sons and daughters and burn them alive." 
Ezekiel23:26 They will strip off your clothes and rob you of your fine jewels. 
Ezekiel23:27 “ ‘So I will put a stop to your debauchery and the habitual prostitution you began in Egypt. You will not view the Egyptians as your lovers anymore. You will never think of them again. 
Ezekiel23:28 For Lord Yahweh says: Now, I will hand you over to those you hate, those for whom you no longer feel affection." 
Ezekiel23:29 They will treat you with hatred, strip you of all that you have worked hard for, and leave you stark naked. Just as you were naked in your prostitution, so you will be naked when everyone discovers your debauchery and habitual prostitution!" 
Ezekiel23:30 You have brought all this on yourself because you have played the whore with the nations and have made yourself unfit for my presence by worshiping their idols. 
Ezekiel23:31 Since you have followed your sister’s footsteps, I will put her cup of punishment in your hands to drink." 
Ezekiel23:32 The Lord Yahweh says to you: “ ‘You will drink of the same cup as your sister, a large cup both deep and wide that contains much sorrow! Drink it all, for it will lead to mockery and insults!" 
Ezekiel23:33 You will be drunk with misery and sorrow. It is a cup of horror and devastation, the cup of your sister Samaria." 
Ezekiel23:34 You will drain it dry. Then, in despair, you will smash the cup in pieces, gnaw on the shattered shards, and cut off your own breasts, once fondled by others. For I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel23:35 “ ‘And so, Lord Yahweh says: Because you have forgotten me and have turned your back on me, you too will have to bear the consequences of your outrageous, depraved sexual immorality.’ ”" 
Ezekiel23:36 And Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, are you ready to render judgment upon Oholah and Oholibah and charge them with their detestable practices?" 
Ezekiel23:37 They have been wicked adulteresses. Their hands are dripping with blood, and they have committed gross adultery with their vile images. They have even committed murder by offering up their children, who are mine, as burnt sacrifices to feed their false gods!" 
Ezekiel23:38 Moreover, they have sinned against me by defiling my sanctuary and dishonoring my Sabbaths." 
Ezekiel23:39 The same day they sacrificed their children to their idols, they came into my sanctuary and made it unfit for worship. Yes, this is what they have done in my own house!" 
Ezekiel23:40 “Worse still, they sent messengers to summon men from far away to come have sex with them, and they came. To meet your lovers you bathed yourselves, painted your eyes, put on your provocative clothes with your finest jewelry." 
Ezekiel23:41 You reclined on your sumptuous couch with a table spread before you with my aromatic incense and oils. 
Ezekiel23:42 The noise of your party, a carefree crowd, echoed all around— a noisy crowd of drunk nomads! They put bracelets on the women’s arms and magnificent headpieces on their heads." 
Ezekiel23:43 I thought, ‘Isn’t that woman worn out with her adultery? Let them use her as a prostitute—she’s a professional.’" 
Ezekiel23:44 “Yet the men continued to have sex with her as one does with a prostitute, just as they slept with Oholah and Oholibah—those lewd women!" 
Ezekiel23:45 But there are righteous men who will declare them guilty of adultery and murder. For they are, indeed, adulteresses and their hands are stained with blood.”" 
Ezekiel23:46 Lord Yahweh says: “Gather a mob to deal with them, to rob and terrorize them!" 
Ezekiel23:47 Let the mob stone them and attack them with their swords. Let their sons and daughters be slaughtered and their houses set on fire. 
Ezekiel23:48 This is how I shall purge the land of lewdness so that all women will be warned not to commit prostitution as you have done. 
Ezekiel23:49 And you two sisters, you will be punished as your sins deserve. You will bear the price for your immorality and your vile idolatry. Then you will know that I am Lord Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel24:1 Yahweh spoke to me and said: “Son of man, write down today’s date: January 15, the ninth year of your captivity, for this is the very day the king of Babylon begins his attack on Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel24:2  
Ezekiel24:3 Pronounce this parable for these rebels: ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: “ ‘Put a cooking pot on the fire; put it on and fill it with water. 
Ezekiel24:4 Take one of the best of the flock, kill it, cut it in pieces, then put the best pieces in the pot — the thighs, the shoulders, and the choicest joints. Fill the pot with the most tender cuts, pile firewood underneath it and boil it until the bones are thoroughly cooked." 
Ezekiel24:5  
Ezekiel24:6 “ ‘For the Lord Yahweh says this: Disaster is in store for the bloody city, for you are like a scum-filled cooking pot that no amount of scrubbing can make clean! Empty the pot, piece by piece, in whatever order it comes." 
Ezekiel24:7 For your city is still full of bloodshed. Your people have poured the blood of your murdered victims on the bare rocks. You didn’t bother to pour it on the ground where at least the dust could cover it. 
Ezekiel24:8 To awaken my anger and exact vengeance, I have put the blood of those you murdered on a bare rock where it will not be hidden!" 
Ezekiel24:9 “ ‘I, Lord Yahweh, say to you: Doom is in store for the city of bloodshed. I, too, will pile up wood for the fire." 
Ezekiel24:10 Heap on the firewood! Light it! Cook the meat well until the broth boils away, until the bones are burned up!" 
Ezekiel24:11 Set the empty pot on the coals until it gets hot and the metal glows red-hot. The scum will become soft enough to scrub, and what is left will be burned off." 
Ezekiel24:12 But it still can’t be cleaned and its scum can’t be removed, so into the fire you go!" 
Ezekiel24:13 “ ‘ Jerusalem, the filth of your sexual immorality is infamous. Although I have tried to purify you, you were not cleansed of your filth, so now you will never be purged of your filth until I have emptied out my fury upon you." 
Ezekiel24:14 I, Yahweh, have decreed it. The time has come, and I will do it! I will not hold back or relent. I will show you no pity. I will judge you according to the way you have lived and acted. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel24:15 Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Ezekiel24:16 “Son of man, behold, in the blink of an eye I am about to take from you your heart’s dearest treasure, the one you love the most. But you must not weep or wail or let your tears stream down your cheeks." 
Ezekiel24:17 Let no one hear your sobbing; don’t show that you are grieving. Wrap a turban around your head, put sandals on your feet, and dress normally. Don’t cover your face, and don’t eat the customary food of mourners.”" 
Ezekiel24:18 So, I preached to the people the next day as usual, and by evening, my wife had died. And I did as I had been instructed." 
Ezekiel24:19 The people then said to me, “What’s the meaning of this? Why are you acting this way?”" 
Ezekiel24:20 Then Yahweh spoke to me and I replied, “ Yahweh told me" 
Ezekiel24:21 to prophesy to the people of Israel the words of Lord Yahweh: ‘Behold! I am about to make my sanctuary ritually unclean. My temple has become your boast, the pride of your strength, the delight of your eyes, the joy of your hearts, and you believe it will keep you safe. But your children whom you left behind in Jerusalem will be killed by the sword." 
Ezekiel24:22 Then you will do as I have done; you will not cover your faces nor eat the customary food of mourners. 
Ezekiel24:23 You will keep turbans on your heads and your sandals on your feet. You will not mourn nor weep but will waste away for your sins and groan among yourselves. 
Ezekiel24:24 Thus Ezekiel is a sign for you. Everything he has done, you will do. And when this happens, you will certainly know that I am Lord Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel24:25 “And you, son of man, this is what will happen on the day that I deprive them of their temple -stronghold, their beautiful joy and glory, their heart’s desire, and their greatest treasure—I will also take away their sons and daughters." 
Ezekiel24:26 And on that day a survivor from Jerusalem will bring you the report. 
Ezekiel24:27 That same day, when he comes to you, your mouth will be opened, and you will be able to prophesy to the survivor and be silent no longer. And you will be a living symbol of hope for them, and they will see and acknowledge that I am Yahweh!”" 
Ezekiel25:1 Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Ezekiel25:2 “Son of man, turn toward the land of the Ammonites and prophesy against them." 
Ezekiel25:3 Say to them, ‘Hear the words of Lord Yahweh. He says to you: You gloated when my temple became unfit for my presence. You celebrated when the land of Israel was left in ruins. And when the people of Judah were taken into captivity, you shouted, “Hooray!”" 
Ezekiel25:4 Therefore, behold! I am handing you over to the tribes of the eastern desert to come and take possession of you. They will take over your country and make their home in you. They will feast on the crops of your fields and drink the milk." 
Ezekiel25:5 I will turn your great city Rabbah into a camel yard. Yes, I will turn all the land of Ammon into sheepfolds. Then you will recognize that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel25:6 “ ‘Furthermore, Lord Yahweh says to you: Since you have clapped your hands and danced for joy, full of malicious glee at Israel’s fate," 
Ezekiel25:7 therefore behold! My mighty hand will be against you for this. I will hand you over to be looted by the nations, and I will obliterate you as a nation and you will perish as a country. I will reduce you to nothing, and then you will recognize that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel25:8 Lord Yahweh says: “Moab and Seir have said that the people of Judah are no different from any other nation. 
Ezekiel25:9 Therefore, behold! I will let your enemies clear out the cities that defend the border of Moab—your fine cities, jewels of your land—Beth Jeshimoth, Baal-Meon, and Kiriathaim." 
Ezekiel25:10 To the same eastern desert tribes that invade Ammon, I will hand over Moab so that Ammon will be forgotten forever as a nation." 
Ezekiel25:11 I will carry out my punishment of Moab, and then they will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel25:12 Lord Yahweh says: “The people of Edom took revenge on the people of Judah and sinned greatly in doing so. 
Ezekiel25:13 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says to you: ‘My hand will be against you, and I will slaughter every person and animal living among you. There will be no one left anywhere in the land, from Teman to Dedan, all the people will fall by the sword!" 
Ezekiel25:14 I will use my people Israel to take my vengeance on Edom. My people will treat Edom as my furious anger demands, and they will realize that this is my vengeance! I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel25:15 Lord Yahweh says, “The Philistines took revenge on the people of Judah, with deep hatred. They did their best to destroy them because of their long-standing hatred." 
Ezekiel25:16 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says to you: My hand will be against the Philistines; I will exterminate the Cherethite tribe and destroy the rest of the coastal peoples." 
Ezekiel25:17 I will execute frightful acts of vengeance and punish them in my wrath! And then they will realize that I, Yahweh, exacted my vengeance on them.”" 
Ezekiel26:1 On the first day of the month in the eleventh year of our captivity, Yahweh spoke to me and said:" 
Ezekiel26:2 “Son of man, the people of Tyre have been cheering the demise of Jerusalem, saying, ‘Hooray! She is fallen! The Gateway to the Nations is shattered! An opportunity has swung open for us. Now we will grow rich off her destruction!’" 
Ezekiel26:3 “Therefore, I, Lord Yahweh, say to Tyre, ‘Behold, I am against you, As the sea raises up its waves I will raise up many nations surging against you." 
Ezekiel26:4 They will destroy the walls of Tyre, and demolish her high towers. I will sweep away her rubble and reduce her to nothing but a bare rock." 
Ezekiel26:5 Tyre will be an island where fishermen dry out their nets. Your enemies will take away everything you have. I, Lord Yahweh, have decreed it." 
Ezekiel26:6 And as for her settlements on the mainland, they will all be slaughtered, and they will certainly learn that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel26:7 “Lord Yahweh says to Tyre: “Look! I will bring Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, the world’s most powerful king, sweeping down from the north to destroy you with horses, chariots, cavalry, and an enormous army." 
Ezekiel26:8 His armies will massacre your settlements on the mainland. They will lay siege to you and construct towers to attack you. They will build siege-ramps against you and lay siege to you with interlocking shields over their heads. 
Ezekiel26:9 His soldiers will pummel your walls with battering rams and demolish your towers with iron bars. 
Ezekiel26:10 You’ll be covered with dust from their many horses and chariots. Your walls will shake at the rumble of their chariot wheels. His thundering horses will make your walls tremble as they storm through your gates and breach your walls. 
Ezekiel26:11 With galloping horses they will trample through every street and slaughter your people with the sword! They will throw your mighty pillars to the ground. 
Ezekiel26:12 Your enemies will take for themselves your valuable possessions and loot your merchandise. They will break down your walls and destroy your luxurious homes. And they will hurl the rubble and timber into the sea. 
Ezekiel26:13 I will silence the sound of your songs, and the music of your stringed instruments will not be heard again." 
Ezekiel26:14 I will reduce you to a bare rock where fishermen dry their nets, never to be rebuilt. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken, and I have decreed it.”" 
Ezekiel26:15 Lord Yahweh says to Tyre: “Surely, the islands will quake with fear at the sound of your fall. They will hear the groan of your wounded when your slaughter takes place." 
Ezekiel26:16 All the princes of the sea will vacate their thrones, laying aside their regal robes and embroidered cloaks. They will clothe themselves with trembling as they sit on the ground, stunned at your fate." 
Ezekiel26:17 This is the funeral song they will sing over you: “ ‘How you have vanished from the seas, O famous city, once a sea power with many people! You inspired great terror in all those who lived in her." 
Ezekiel26:18 Now, on the day of your fall, the islands and coasts are trembling with fear. They are paralyzed with great fear, because Tyre has vanished completely!’ ”" 
Ezekiel26:19 Lord Yahweh says: “When I make you a place of ruins like other deserted cities and I raise the deep to sweep over you and the ocean depths to cover you," 
Ezekiel26:20 then I will fling you down to the world of the dead to join the people of long ago. I will make you dwell deep in the underworld, in the abyss. And like the ruins of long ago, you will sink with them into oblivion. I will make sure that no one will ever live in you again, nor will you take your place in the land of the living." 
Ezekiel26:21 I will bring you to a dreadful, terrifying end, and you will be no more! People will look for you but never find you again. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel27:1 Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Ezekiel27:2 “Son of man, sing a funeral song for Tyre." 
Ezekiel27:3 Say to Tyre, the city with ports on the Mediterranean Sea, merchant city for many peoples and many islands: “ ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Tyre, you have boasted: “I am the most beautiful city in the world!”" 
Ezekiel27:4 Your frontiers were on the high sea, and those who built you made you perfect in beauty." 
Ezekiel27:5 As if they were building a ship they used cypress from Mount Hermon for all your boards, and a tall cedar from Lebanon to make a mast to stand above you." 
Ezekiel27:6 They made your oars from oaks of Bashan, and made you a fine deck with pines they took from the coasts of Cyprus, and they decorated it with ivory." 
Ezekiel27:7 Your sails and banners were of colorful embroidered linen from Egypt. Your deck awnings were made from the finest purple and scarlet cloth from Cyprus. 
Ezekiel27:8 Your oarsmen were rulers from the cities of Sidon and Arvad, and your own seasoned men were your sailors." 
Ezekiel27:9 The elders and craftsmen of Byblos were those who caulked your seams. “ ‘Ships and sailors the world over came to trade with you. 
Ezekiel27:10 Your army was composed of warriors from Persia, Lud, and Libya. By hanging their weapons on your deck, they displayed your splendor." 
Ezekiel27:11 Soldiers from Arvad and Helech manned your walls all around. Brave warriors manned your watchtowers, hanging their shields all around your walls to make your beauty complete.’ ”" 
Ezekiel27:12 “ ‘The people of Tarshish traded with you because of your abundant resources of every kind. They imported your products and exported silver, iron, tin, and lead." 
Ezekiel27:13 The Greeks along with nations of Tubal and Meshech traded with you. They sold you slaves and metal utensils. 
Ezekiel27:14 The people of Beth Togarmah traded for your goods, your war horses and work horses and mules." 
Ezekiel27:15 The people of Rhodes traded with you; many coastal lands were your special customers and paid you in ivory tusks and ebony wood. 
Ezekiel27:16 Edom traded with you emeralds, purple cloth, embroidered work and fine linen, coral and rubies for your many fine manufactured goods." 
Ezekiel27:17 Judah and the land of Israel also paid for your goods with the finest millet, spices, honey, olive oil, and balm." 
Ezekiel27:18 Damascus traded with you, for quantities of your abundant resources of every kind, furnishing you with wine from Helbon and unbleached wool," 
Ezekiel27:19 casks of wine from Izalla, polished iron, cassia and calamus in exchange for your goods." 
Ezekiel27:20 Dedan traded with you in saddle blankets. 
Ezekiel27:21 Arabia and all the sheikhs of Kedar were your clients, selling sheep and goats to you." 
Ezekiel27:22 Businessmen of Sheba and Raamah traded with you the finest spices, precious stones, and gold." 
Ezekiel27:23 Haran, Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad were your trading partners." 
Ezekiel27:24 In your marketplace they sold you gorgeous embroidered clothing, purple cloaks, multi-colored carpets, and well-made cords for your merchandise.’ ”" 
Ezekiel27:25 “ ‘Heavily loaded Spanish ships carried your wares in the heart of the seas. 
Ezekiel27:26 Your oarsmen rowed you out to the open sea. Stormy east winds wrecked you and sent you to the bottom of the sea. 
Ezekiel27:27 On the day of your shipwreck, your riches, your goods, your cargo, your seamen, your sailors, your caulkers, your dealers, all the warriors you carry, and all the passengers who are aboard will sink into the heart of the sea!" 
Ezekiel27:28 When they hear the shouts of your drowning sailors, the people on shore will tremble with fear." 
Ezekiel27:29 All the oarsmen will abandon ship; the seamen and sailors will come ashore. 
Ezekiel27:30 They will wail aloud over you and weep bitterly. They will throw dust on their heads in mourning and lie in ashes. 
Ezekiel27:31 They will shave their heads in sorrow for you and dress themselves in sackcloth. They will weep bitterly for you, Tyre, with heartfelt sorrow over your fall." 
Ezekiel27:32 Grieving, they will chant a funeral song for you, and wail with lament over you, saying: “Who is like Tyre, like a tower surrounded by the sea?”" 
Ezekiel27:33 When you exported your goods to satisfy so many peoples with the abundance of your wealth and wares you enriched the kings of the earth. 
Ezekiel27:34 Now you are broken to pieces by the waves; you lie at the bottom of the sea. Your cargo and all your crew have foundered with you. 
Ezekiel27:35 Those who dwell on the coast and the islands are stunned at your fate. Horror is written on the faces of their kings, and their hair stands on end." 
Ezekiel27:36 Your trading partners hiss at you in scorn, for you have come to a dreadful end. You are gone forever, never to return!’ ”" 
Ezekiel28:1 Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Ezekiel28:2 “Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: “ ‘Because your heart is swollen with pride, you have said, “I am a god. I sit in the seat of a god, enthroned in the heart of the sea.” You think you are as wise as a god, but you’re nothing but a man, not a god at all!" 
Ezekiel28:3 So, you really think you are wiser than Daniel, and no mystery baffles you?" 
Ezekiel28:3 So, you really think you are wiser than Daniel, and no mystery baffles you?" 
Ezekiel28:4 By your wisdom and vast understanding you have amassed a great fortune! You have accumulated gold and silver and placed them into your royal treasuries. 
Ezekiel28:5 Through your great wisdom in trading, your fortune has continued to increase, but it has made your heart grow prouder." 
Ezekiel28:6 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says to you: Do you really think your heart is like the heart of God?" 
Ezekiel28:7 See for yourself as I bring ruthless enemies against you, the most brutal of the nations! They will unleash their swords against all that your marvelous wisdom has built, and they will strike down your splendor!" 
Ezekiel28:8 You will die a violent death in the heart of the sea. They will throw you down into the abyss! 
Ezekiel28:9 Will you still say in the presence of your killers, “ Don’t you know I’m a god?” But you will be merely a mortal man, and not a god, when you are in the clutches of the ones who strike you down!" 
Ezekiel28:10 You will die like an outcast, a shameful death at the hand of foreigners. I, Lord Yahweh, have decreed it!’ ”" 
Ezekiel28:11 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel28:12 “Son of man, mourn for the king of Tyre. Say to him, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: “ ‘You were once the consummate model of perfection. You were full of great wisdom, and your beauty seemed perfect." 
Ezekiel28:13 You lived in Eden, in the very garden of God. Every precious jewel formed your mantle. You were dressed in splendor with diamonds, carnelian, topaz, chrysolite, beryl, onyx, sapphire, turquoise, and emeralds; each gem engraved in settings of gold. I, Yahweh, made them for you on the day I created you." 
Ezekiel28:14 I placed you with an anointed guardian cherub. You were on the holy mountain of God where you walked among the fiery stones. 
Ezekiel28:15 Your ways were blameless from the day I created you, until wickedness first appeared in you." 
Ezekiel28:16 Your vast wealth filled you with violence and sin. So, I have cast you down in disgrace from the mountain of God. I banished you, O guardian cherub, from among the stones of fire." 
Ezekiel28:17 Your heart became swollen with pride because of your beauty; your thirst for glory corrupted your wisdom. So, I hurled you down to the earth, and displayed you as a warning to other kings." 
Ezekiel28:18 So great was your sin— the injustice of your buying and selling. You defiled your sanctuaries. So, I set a fire inside of you, and it consumed you entirely! I reduced you to ashes on the ground before the eyes of all who saw you." 
Ezekiel28:19 All who once knew you are stunned at your fate. You have come to a terrible, dreadful end, and will be no more!’ ”" 
Ezekiel28:20 Yahweh spoke to me and said," 
Ezekiel28:21 “Son of man, turn toward Sidon and prophesy against her" 
Ezekiel28:22 with these words: ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: “ ‘Behold, I am against you, Sidon; I will manifest my glory in you when I bring my judgment upon you! Everyone will see my display of holiness and they will know that I am Yahweh!" 
Ezekiel28:23 For I will send a plague, and there will be blood in her streets. Enemies will attack her on all sides by the sword raised up against her, and the dead will fall in heaps within the city. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel28:24 “As for the people of Israel, there will no longer be any hostile nation surrounding them like thorns or briars that would hurt or pierce them. Then people will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel28:25 Lord Yahweh says: “When I regather the people of Israel from every place where they have been scattered, I will display my holiness among them for all the nations to see. They will live in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob." 
Ezekiel28:26 And they will live there securely, building houses and planting vineyards. When I execute judgment on all the mocking, hostile nations surrounding them, they will live in safety, and they will know that I am Yahweh, the God they worship.”" 
Ezekiel29:1 In the tenth year of our exile, on the twelfth day of the tenth month, Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel29:2 “Son of man, turn toward Hophra king of Egypt and prophesy against him and against all Egypt." 
Ezekiel29:3 Tell them what I, Lord Yahweh, say: “ ‘Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt— the great monster wallowing in its waterways. You boasted: “I made the Nile River for myself, and I own it!”" 
Ezekiel29:4 I will put hooks through your jaws, and make the fish of the Nile stick to your scales. Then I will drag you out of your waterways with all your fish clinging to your scales." 
Ezekiel29:5 I will leave you and all your fish on the ground to die in the desert. You will die in the open field, and I will feed you to the wild animals and the birds of heaven, and no one will collect your bones or bury them." 
Ezekiel29:6 Then all the inhabitants of Egypt will know that I am Yahweh. “ ‘ The Lord says to Egypt: You have been no help whatsoever to my people, Israel; you are nothing more than a crutch of flimsy reeds!" 
Ezekiel29:7 Wherever they grasped you, you broke in their hands and splinters pierced their hands. Whenever they leaned on you, you collapsed, and sent them sprawling." 
Ezekiel29:8 “ ‘So, Lord Yahweh says to you: I will bring war against you to eliminate both people and animals." 
Ezekiel29:9 The land of Egypt will become an empty desert, and they will know that I am Yahweh. Because you boasted, “The Nile is mine, I made it. It’s all mine,”" 
Ezekiel29:10 therefore, I am your enemy and the enemy of your waterways. I will reduce Egypt to a desolate, empty desert, from Migdol in the north to Syene in the south, as far as the border of Ethiopia." 
Ezekiel29:11 No person or animal will pass through it. For forty years it will remain uninhabited. 
Ezekiel29:12 I will turn Egypt into the most desolate of lands, and for forty years its cities will be the most desolate of ruined cities. And I will scatter your people among the nations and disperse them among foreign lands." 
Ezekiel29:13 “ ‘However, Lord Yahweh says this: After forty years, I will gather the Egyptians back from the nations where I scattered them." 
Ezekiel29:14 I will bring the Egyptian captives back and restore them to the way they were before in their homeland of Pathros. There they will be an insignificant kingdom. 
Ezekiel29:15 Egypt will be the weakest kingdom of all and no longer dominate other nations. For I will reduce it so that it will never again rule over the nations. 
Ezekiel29:16 It will never again be strong enough for the people of Israel to trust in. Its fate will be a reminder of Israel’s sin when they put their confidence in Egypt to help them. Then they will know that I am Lord Yahweh.’ ” 
Ezekiel29:17 In the twenty-seventh year of our exile, on the first day of the first month, Yahweh spoke to me, saying:" 
Ezekiel29:18 “Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has taken his army and launched an attack against Tyre and inflicted a heavy toll upon his soldiers. Their helmets have rubbed their heads bare, and their heavy loads made their shoulders raw and chafed, yet neither Nebuchadnezzar nor his army gained any reward from the campaign he led against Tyre." 
Ezekiel29:19 I, Lord Yahweh, will hand Egypt over to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. He will carry off its riches and loot the wealth of Egypt to pay the wages of his army." 
Ezekiel29:20 I am giving him Egypt as a reward for the labor he has undertaken on my behalf. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken!" 
Ezekiel29:21 “At that time, I will raise up a new day of power for the people of Israel. And Ezekiel, I will open your mouth, and when you speak, the people will listen to you. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel30:1 Yahweh spoke to me again, saying," 
Ezekiel30:2 “Son of man, prophesy and announce what I, Lord Yahweh, say to Egypt: “ ‘Weep and wail, for the day of disaster is here!" 
Ezekiel30:3 Yes, the day is near, the day of Yahweh is near! It will be a day dark with clouds, a time of trouble for the nations.’" 
Ezekiel30:4 “War will come upon Egypt, and terror will invade the land of Ethiopia. Egypt’s foundations will be leveled, multitudes will be slaughtered, and her riches will be carried away." 
Ezekiel30:5 Egypt and all her allies, Ethiopia, Libya, and Lydia, all Arabia, and Kub —they will all fall by the sword!”" 
Ezekiel30:6 Yahweh says, “Egypt’s allies will fall, and the pride of Egypt’s might will crumble. They will fall by the sword from Migdol in the north to Syene in the south. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel30:7 “They will be the most desolate in the midst of wasted countries, and their cities the most ruined among ruined cities." 
Ezekiel30:8 Then they will know that I am Yahweh when I set fire to Egypt and shatter all who support her. 
Ezekiel30:9 “At that time, I will dispatch messengers by river ships to terrify the unsuspecting Ethiopians. They will panic on the day of Egypt’s doom. Judgment is sure to come!" 
Ezekiel30:10 Lord Yahweh says: I will use the armies of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to destroy the huge population of Egypt. 
Ezekiel30:11 I will bring him and his savage armies to ravage the country. They will wage war against Egypt and fill the country with corpses. 
Ezekiel30:12 I will dry up the waterways of the Nile and hand over the country to evil men. I will cause the land to be destroyed and everything in it, at the hand of foreigners. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel30:13 Lord Yahweh says: “I will demolish the idols and destroy the false gods from Noph. Egypt will be left without a ruler and a plague of fear will sweep over Egypt. 
Ezekiel30:14 I will make southern Egypt deserted, burn Zoan to the ground, and punish Thebes." 
Ezekiel30:15 I will pour out my fury on Pelusium, the stronghold of Egypt. I will wipe out the great population of Thebes." 
Ezekiel30:16 I will set Egypt on fire! Pelusium will be seized with great agony! The walls of Thebes will be torn down, and Noph will face distress daily from her enemies." 
Ezekiel30:17 And the cities of Heliopolis and Bubastis will go into captivity and their young soldiers will fall by the sword. 
Ezekiel30:18 At Tahpanhes, I will turn day to darkness when I shatter Egypt’s strength and silence the boast of her might. I will blanket Egypt with dark clouds, and her people will go into captivity." 
Ezekiel30:19 That is how I will punish Egypt, and then they will acknowledge that I am Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel30:20 In the eleventh year of our captivity, on the seventh day of the first month, Yahweh spoke to me, saying:" 
Ezekiel30:21 “Son of man, I have broken the powerful arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt. Behold, you can see that no one has set the bone to make it heal. No one has wrapped it to help it heal and get strong enough to hold a sword again." 
Ezekiel30:22 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says, ‘Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt; I will break both his arms, the strong one and the broken one, and I will make him drop the sword from his hand." 
Ezekiel30:23 I will scatter the Egyptians to the wind and disperse them among the nations. 
Ezekiel30:24 I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand. I will break Pharaoh’s arms, and he will moan in pain like a dying man before the Babylonian king." 
Ezekiel30:25 I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but I will make the arms of Pharaoh hang limp. And they will know that I am Yahweh when I put my sword into the hands of the king of Babylon and he wields it against Egypt." 
Ezekiel30:26 I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among foreign lands. And then the people of Egypt will acknowledge that I am Yahweh.’ ” 
Ezekiel31:1 In the eleventh year of our captivity, on the first day of the third month, Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel31:2 “Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt and his multitude: ‘Who is comparable to you in your greatness?" 
Ezekiel31:3 I know who: Assyria! Once it was like a cedar tree in Lebanon, with its noble branches, its forest shade, and its lofty height, its treetop among the clouds." 
Ezekiel31:4 Plenty of water has made it grow, deep springs have made it tall. Streams flow all around where it was planted, sending rivulets to all the other trees." 
Ezekiel31:5 So it towered high, much higher than the other trees of the forest. Because of the plentiful waters making it grow, its branches increased in number and spread out very far." 
Ezekiel31:6 All the birds of heaven nested in its strong branches, and wild animals gave birth under its shade. Many, many people sat in its shadow." 
Ezekiel31:7 It was beautiful in its greatness, tall, with such large branches! For its roots were planted in plentiful waters." 
Ezekiel31:8 The mighty cedar tree was unrivaled in God’s garden. No cypress compares to such lovely branches as these; No sycamore could match its splendor. No tree in the garden of God could match its beauty. 
Ezekiel31:9 I made it so lovely with its many branches. It was the envy of every tree in Eden, the garden of God.’ ”" 
Ezekiel31:10 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says: “Because it towered so high with its top into the clouds and its heart was proud about its height," 
Ezekiel31:11 I have rejected it! I have handed it over to the mightiest of the nations to be punished as its wickedness deserves. 
Ezekiel31:12 The most ruthless of nations cut down the cedar and left it deserted. Its broken branches littered the mountains, the valleys, and every ravine throughout the country. Those who once sat in its shadow have fled and abandoned it." 
Ezekiel31:13 All the birds of heaven settled in the fallen tree, and all the wild animals lay among its branches." 
Ezekiel31:14 “So from now on, let no tree, no matter how well-watered, grow that high again with its top pushing into the clouds. And let no watered tree grow that tall again. For all of them are doomed to death, and they will join those in the depths of the underworld of mortals with those who go down to the pit.”" 
Ezekiel31:15 Lord Yahweh says: “The day I cast it down to Sheol, I caused it to mourn, covering it with the deep springs. For I stopped its underground rivers, and I reduced the flow of the once plentiful waters. I clothed Lebanon with gloom as they mourned for the cedar tree, and all the trees withered because of it." 
Ezekiel31:16 I made the nations quake at the crashing sound of its fall. They trembled as I hurled it down to Sheol with those who sink into the pit. In the depths of the underworld, all the trees of Eden, the finest well-watered trees of Lebanon, were comforted when the cedar tree joined them." 
Ezekiel31:17 And the nations who sat in its shadow went down to Sheol with it to join those slaughtered by the sword. 
Ezekiel31:18 “Which of Eden’s trees could be compared to you in glory and greatness? Yet you have been hurled down with the trees of Eden to the depths of the underworld. You will lie among the uncircumcised and with those who have been slaughtered by the sword. So much for Pharaoh and all his multitudes! I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel32:1 In the twelfth year of our captivity, on the first day of the twelfth month, Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel32:2 “Son of man, give a solemn warning to Pharaoh king of Egypt. Say to him: “ ‘You are like a young lion prowling among the nations, or like a sea monster lurking in your lagoons! You churn up the water with your trampling and muddy their streams." 
Ezekiel32:3 Lord Yahweh says to you: I will throw my net over you using a large group of nations. They will drag you to shore in my net, and I will leave you high and dry." 
Ezekiel32:4 I will fling you onto the open field and abandon you on the ground. I will gather all the birds of the air to feast on your flesh, and all the beasts of the earth will gorge themselves on you." 
Ezekiel32:5 I will scatter bits and pieces of your flesh on the hills and fill the valleys with your rotting corpse. 
Ezekiel32:6 I will drench the land with your oozing blood until it fills the ravines and spreads to the base of the mountains. 
Ezekiel32:7 When I snuff you out, I will hide the skies and darken the stars. I will cover the sun with clouds and turn off the moonlight." 
Ezekiel32:8 Heaven’s bright lights above you I will darken and shroud your land in darkness. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel32:9 “ ‘I will trouble the hearts of many peoples when I spread the news of your destruction to nations and lands unknown to you. 
Ezekiel32:10 What I do to you will stun many nations. When I brandish my sword before them all, their kings will shudder with horror at your fate. On the day they see you fall, each will tremble in terror, fearing your fate might become theirs!" 
Ezekiel32:11 “ ‘For Lord Yahweh says to Egypt: The king of Babylon is coming to attack you! 
Ezekiel32:12 I will cause your great army to fall by the swords of mighty warriors. They are the most barbaric of nations. They will slice the pride of Egypt into pieces, and all your people will be destroyed." 
Ezekiel32:13 I will also slaughter your livestock grazing beside the plentiful waters. No person or animal will muddy the water in the watering places with their feet and hooves. 
Ezekiel32:14 Then I will settle their waters and make their rivers flow as smoothly as oil. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel32:15 “ ‘When I reduce Egypt to a desolate wasteland and strip the land of all it contains, when I annihilate all who live there, then they will acknowledge that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel32:16 “ ‘This is the funeral song that people will sing in mourning for Egypt. Women of other nations will sing in lament for it. They will utter a lamentation for the land of Egypt and all its many people. I, Lord Yahweh, decree it!’ ”" 
Ezekiel32:17 In the twelfth year of our captivity, on the fifteenth day of the twelfth month, Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel32:18 “Son of man, weep and mourn for the vast population of Egypt, and for the other mighty nations. For I will send them down to the world below with all who sink into the pit." 
Ezekiel32:19 “ Tell them, ‘Egypt, are you more favored than the other nations? Down with you! Go down and make your bed with the uncircumcised dead," 
Ezekiel32:20 with those who have been slaughtered by the sword! I will hand you and all your people over to the sword, and they will drag you away." 
Ezekiel32:21 From the depths of Sheol, the mightiest heroes, your allies, will shout to you, “Now they have come down. They have joined us among the uncircumcised dead, slaughtered by the sword.”" 
Ezekiel32:22 “ ‘Assyria is there with all her hordes, with the graves of her soldiers all around her. They fell on the battlefield, slaughtered by the sword." 
Ezekiel32:23 They made their graves in the deepest part of the pit. Her hordes surround her grave; they were all slaughtered! Those who once spread their terror throughout the world of the living now lie silent, slaughtered by the sword." 
Ezekiel32:24 “ ‘Elam is there, along with the graves of all her hordes. They were slaughtered—fallen by the sword. Those who once spread their terror throughout the land of the living have now joined the uncircumcised dead in the depths of the underworld. They have been disgraced and ashamed with those who sink into the pit." 
Ezekiel32:25 They have made a grave for her among her slaughtered multitudes, surrounded by all their tombs, all of them uncircumcised, slaughtered by the sword for having spread terror throughout the land of the living. They have carried their shame with them, with all those who sink into the pit. They have been placed among the slaughtered." 
Ezekiel32:26 “ ‘Meshech and Tubal are in the graveyard with their hordes all around their graves. They are all the uncircumcised dead, slaughtered by the sword for having spread their terror throughout the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:27 They were not buried with the great warriors of ancient times. When the mighty warriors died, they went into Sheol wearing all their armor. When people buried them, they placed their swords under their heads and their shields on top of their bodies because these valiant heroes once terrorized the land of the living." 
Ezekiel32:28 And you, Pharaoh, will be broken and lie among the uncircumcised, with those slaughtered by the sword." 
Ezekiel32:29 “ ‘Edom is there, her kings and all her rulers, who, despite their might, have been buried with those slaughtered by the sword. They lie with the uncircumcised, with those who sink into the pit." 
Ezekiel32:30 “ ‘All the princes of the north and all the Sidonians are there. They have gone down in disgrace with the slaughtered because their powerful armies once terrified their enemies. They lie among the uncircumcised dead, those slaughtered by the sword who bear their shame with those who sink into the pit." 
Ezekiel32:31 “ ‘When Pharaoh and all his army see them, it will bring him some consolation at the sight of all his hordes killed by the sword. I, Yahweh, decree it!" 
Ezekiel32:32 Although I made him spread terror throughout the land of the living, he and all his hordes will be buried with the uncircumcised dead who were slaughtered by the sword. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel33:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel33:2 “Son of man, give your people this message: ‘If I bring war to your nation, you must select a man and post him as a watchman." 
Ezekiel33:3 When he sees the enemy coming to attack, he must sound his shofar to warn the people." 
Ezekiel33:4 If people hear the warning but pay no attention and the sword overtakes them and kills them, they will bear the responsibility for their own deaths." 
Ezekiel33:5 Because they heard the sound of the shofar and paid no attention to the warning, their deaths are their own faults. But if they had listened to the warning, they could have saved their lives." 
Ezekiel33:6 “ ‘If, however, the watchman sees the enemy approaching but has not blown his shofar to warn the people and the sword overtakes them and kills a single one of them, even though that person was a sinner, I will still hold the watchman responsible for that person’s death.’" 
Ezekiel33:7 “Son of man, I have appointed you as watchman for the people of Israel. When you hear me speak a warning, give them my warning." 
Ezekiel33:8 If I say to the wicked, ‘Evildoers, you are about to die,’ and you fail to warn them to renounce their evil ways, they will die for their guilt, but I will hold you responsible for their deaths." 
Ezekiel33:9 But if you warn the wicked to change their evil behavior and they refuse to change, the wicked will die for their sins, but you will have saved your own life.”" 
Ezekiel33:10 “Son of man, say to the people of Israel, ‘You continually say: Our rebellious acts and our sins have caught up with us, and we are wasting away because of them. How then can we live?’" 
Ezekiel33:11 “Say to them, ‘As surely as I, Lord Yahweh, exist—I take no delight in the death of the wicked, but I delight in seeing them turn from their ways so they can live. So, repent and turn from your evil ways. People of Israel, why would you want to die? Turn and come back to me! ’" 
Ezekiel33:12 “Son of man, say to your people, ‘All the good things a good person has done will not be any help if that one decides to turn to sin. And all the sins of an evil person will not destroy him if the evildoer decides to repent and turn from sin. If the righteous turns to sin, the righteous person will not be able to live because of past righteous deeds.’" 
Ezekiel33:13 Suppose I say to a righteous person: ‘You will certainly live,’ but then he becomes confident in his righteousness and turns away and willfully sins; none of the good things he has done in the past will be remembered. He will die in his sins." 
Ezekiel33:14 If, however, I say to a wicked person: ‘You will certainly die,’ but then the wicked turns away from sin and does what is just and right" 
Ezekiel33:15 by returning what has been stolen and returning the borrower’s pledge and by following the laws that give life and no longer doing wrong, that person will live and will not die." 
Ezekiel33:16 None of his previous sins will be counted against him, for he has done what is just and right—therefore, he will certainly live." 
Ezekiel33:17 “Yet your people say: ‘The ways of the Lord are not right.’ But it is their ways that are not right! 
Ezekiel33:18 When an upright person turns away from what is right and does what is evil, that person will die for it." 
Ezekiel33:19 And when a wicked person turns from being wicked and does what is just and right, that person will live." 
Ezekiel33:20 Yet you say: ‘The ways of the Lord are not right.’ Listen, people of Israel, I will judge each of you according to your ways.”" 
Ezekiel33:21 In the eleventh year of our captivity, on the fifth day of the tenth month, one who escaped from Jerusalem arrived and informed me: “The city has been taken.”" 
Ezekiel33:22 Now the evening before the survivor arrived, the mighty hand of Yahweh had rested on me, and my speech was fully restored before he came to me in the morning—I could speak again." 
Ezekiel33:23 Then Yahweh said to me," 
Ezekiel33:24 “Son of man, the people who are living in the ruins in the land of Israel are saying, ‘Abraham was only one man when he took possession of the land, but we are many. Certainly, we can possess this land and rebuild.’" 
Ezekiel33:25 “Now give the people this message, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Do you really think you can take ownership of the land? You are evildoers! You murder others, you eat meat with blood, and you worship your foul idols." 
Ezekiel33:26 You rely on your swords, you engage in despicable pagan practices, and you are all adulterers. Do you really think I will give the ownership of the land to you?’" 
Ezekiel33:27 “Tell them that I, Lord Yahweh, solemnly warn them: As surely as I exist, those living in the ruined towns will fall by the sword, those in the countryside I will give to the wild animals for them to eat, and those among the crags and in caves will die from disease." 
Ezekiel33:28 I will turn the land into a total wasteland, and I will put an end to their arrogant power. Israel’s mountains will be so deserted that no one will pass that way again." 
Ezekiel33:29 Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I turn the land into a barren desert because of all the filthy things they have done.”" 
Ezekiel33:30 “As for you, son of man, your fellow citizens are talking about you beside the walls and in the doorways of their homes. They keep saying to one another, ‘Let’s go hear what Yahweh has to say.’" 
Ezekiel33:31 They all flock to you to sit at your feet as my people. They listen to your words, but they will not act on them. Instead, they express genuine devotion to Yahweh, but their hearts are set on cheating others." 
Ezekiel33:32 As far as they are concerned, you are like an entertainer who sings a love song with a beautiful voice to a good musical accompaniment. They hear what you say, but no one will do it." 
Ezekiel33:33 When all your prophecies come true —and they are beginning to be fulfilled now—they will know that there has been a true prophet among them.” 
Ezekiel34:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel34:2 “Son of man, prophesy against the leaders of Israel; prophesy and say to them, ‘Listen, you leaders, Lord Yahweh has a message for you: Disaster is in store for the shepherds of Israel whose only concern is to feed themselves. Aren’t shepherds supposed to feed the sheep?" 
Ezekiel34:3 Yet you eat the fat, you shear the sheep to make your clothes, you slaughter the fattest sheep for your feasts, but you never feed the flock." 
Ezekiel34:4 You haven’t cared for the weak ones, brought healing to the sick, nor bandaged those who are injured. You haven’t looked for the strays nor brought the lost back to the fold. Instead, you have ruled over them cruelly and treated them harshly." 
Ezekiel34:5 Because there was no shepherd to care for the sheep, they were scattered and were eaten by every wild beast." 
Ezekiel34:6 My flock has wandered aimlessly over every hill and mountain over the face of the earth, and no one went to look for them or tried to find them." 
Ezekiel34:7 “ ‘Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:" 
Ezekiel34:8 As surely as I live, declares Lord Yahweh —my sheep have become the prey of every wild beast. Since there was no shepherd to protect my sheep, they have been devoured. My shepherds have not searched for my sheep; they have cared for themselves and not the flock." 
Ezekiel34:9 Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Yahweh:" 
Ezekiel34:10 Lord Yahweh says: Behold, I am against you selfish shepherds! I will hold you accountable for my flock, and I will demand that you return my flock to me. No longer will you feed only yourselves because I will rescue my sheep from your mouths. You will help yourselves to my sheep no longer.’ ”" 
Ezekiel34:11 “For Lord Yahweh says: ‘From now on, I will personally search for my sheep and look after them." 
Ezekiel34:12 As a good shepherd searches after his scattered sheep, so I will look after my sheep and rescue them from wherever they have been scattered on the day of disaster." 
Ezekiel34:13 I will bring them back from foreign countries and gather them together as my flock and return them to their own land. I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, in the valley streams and in all the fertile places." 
Ezekiel34:14 I will feed them in fair meadows and on the slopes of the mountains of Israel. There they will lie down in good grazing grounds and graze in green pastures on the mountains of Israel. 
Ezekiel34:15 I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will give them rest. I will seek out the lost one, bring back the stray, bandage the injured, and heal those that are sick. I will watch over the fat and healthy of the flock. I will be a true, caring shepherd to them. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel34:16  
Ezekiel34:17 “ ‘As for you, my sheep, Lord Yahweh says to you: I am the one who judges between one sheep and the other, between rams and billy goats." 
Ezekiel34:18 Since you’re not satisfied with feeding from the best pastures, you also trample down the rest of the grass. You’re not satisfied to drink the clean water; must you also muddy up the rest of the water with your feet?" 
Ezekiel34:19 Is it right that my sheep have to eat what you have walked all over? Is it right that they must drink muddy water because of your trampling feet? 
Ezekiel34:20 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says this: I am the one who judges between the strong sheep and the weak." 
Ezekiel34:21 Because you shove with your side and your shoulder and thrust your horns at all the weak sheep until you scatter them, therefore," 
Ezekiel34:22 I will come and save my sheep and rescue them from being victimized. I will judge between one sheep and another. 
Ezekiel34:23 “ ‘I will raise up one shepherd over them, like my servant David, and put him in charge of my flock to feed them. He will care for them and be their shepherd." 
Ezekiel34:24 I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my servant, like David, will be their prince taken from among them. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel34:25 I will make a covenant of peace with them and rid the land of its wild beasts. Then they will be able to live securely in the wilderness and sleep soundly in the forest. 
Ezekiel34:26 And I will make them and the places all around my sacred hill a blessing. And I will send showers of blessing —showers will come down in their season. 
Ezekiel34:27 And the tree of the field will yield its luscious fruit, the earth will yield its harvest, and they will live safely in their own land. When I set them free from slavery and rescue them from the hands of those who enslaved them, then they will acknowledge that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel34:28 Foreign powers will no longer plunder them; the wild beasts of the land will no longer feast on them. They will live safe and secure, with no one to frighten them." 
Ezekiel34:29 I will establish for them a planting of renown so that they will no longer suffer from famine. And they will no longer have to endure the insults of other nations. 
Ezekiel34:30 So they will know that I, Yahweh, am with them as their God. And they, the people of Israel, will know that they are my people—declares the Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel34:31 And you, my people, are my sheep, the flock of my pasture are people, and I am your God. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel35:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel35:2 “Son of man, set your face toward Mount Seir and prophesy against it." 
Ezekiel35:3 Tell the people what I, Lord Yahweh, say to them: ‘Behold! I am against you, Mount Seir! I will punish you severely." 
Ezekiel35:4 I will level your cities and make your land an empty desert. There will be no one left in your land. And then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel35:5 You have been an enemy of Israel for a very long time. You betrayed the Israelites and gave them over to be slaughtered at the time of their calamity, the crucial moment of their final punishment." 
Ezekiel35:6 Therefore, as surely as I live—declares Lord Yahweh —I will let you be murdered. Murder will chase you down. Because you did not despise bloodshed, bloodshed will hunt you down!" 
Ezekiel35:7 “ ‘I will make Mount Seir a desolate waste, and I will kill anyone who travels through it." 
Ezekiel35:8 I will cover its mountains with the corpses of those who die in war. Yes, the bodies of those killed in battle will lie scattered over all your hills, valleys, and ravines." 
Ezekiel35:9 Your entire land will lie in ruins; your towns will never be inhabited again. And then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
Ezekiel35:10 “ ‘You said: “Let’s take possession of these two countries, Judah and Israel. They are ours for the taking,” even though the land belongs to me, Yahweh." 
Ezekiel35:11 Therefore, as surely as I live—declares the Lord Yahweh —I will treat you with the same anger and jealousy as you treated them in your hatred. I will show the Israelites who I really am when I punish you severely." 
Ezekiel35:12 And you will know that I, Yahweh, have heard all the vile insults that you have uttered against the mountains of Israel, saying, “Look! They have been ruined and left desolate. Let’s wipe them out!”" 
Ezekiel35:13 I’ve heard all your boasting, arrogant words. Your many speeches that opposed me relentlessly, I have heard them all." 
Ezekiel35:14 Lord Yahweh says: I will destroy you and leave your land empty as everyone applauds your downfall. 
Ezekiel35:15 Just as you rejoiced when the heritage of the land of Israel had been laid waste, so I will do to you, Mount Seir. You will become an empty desert, along with all the land of Edom. And then the Israelites will know that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel36:1 “Son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel and tell them, ‘Mountains of Israel, hear the word of Yahweh." 
Ezekiel36:2 Lord Yahweh says to you: Your enemies have gloated over you by saying: “At last! Now we own these ancient high places!” ’ 
Ezekiel36:3 “So prophesy to them what I, Lord Yahweh, have to say: ‘Your enemies have attacked you from all directions and turned your land into an empty ruin. This enabled other nations to take possession of your land. You also became the subject of people’s malicious talk and evil slander." 
Ezekiel36:4 Therefore, hear the word of Lord Yahweh, you Mountains of Israel! Lord Yahweh has a message for the mountains and hills, the ravines and valleys, the devastated ruins and abandoned cities that have been ransacked by your enemies and ridiculed by all the nations around you." 
Ezekiel36:5 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says to you: Truly, I speak in my jealous anger against the rest of the nations and to the entire land of Edom. You gleefully and maliciously took possession of my land so that you could plunder its fertile pasturelands.’" 
Ezekiel36:6 “Therefore Ezekiel, prophesy over the land of Israel, its mountains and hills, its ravines and valleys. Prophesy to them what I, Lord Yahweh, have to say: ‘Behold, I speak in my fiery passion because you have endured the vile insults of the nations." 
Ezekiel36:7 Therefore, Lord Yahweh says: I raise my hand and solemnly swear that the nations all around you will have their own insults to bear!’ ”" 
Ezekiel36:8 “ ‘Mountains of Israel, your trees will once again grow branches and bear fruit for my people the Israelites. For they will soon return home." 
Ezekiel36:9 Yes, I am for you and on your side; I will turn my heart toward you. Farmers will plow your ground and plant their seeds." 
Ezekiel36:10 Israel, I will make the population of all your tribes to increase, yes, throughout the land. Your ruined cities will be rebuilt and people will live in them again." 
Ezekiel36:11 I will increase your population, both human and animal, and they will increase and prosper. I will bring people to settle on you as in the past, and I will bless you more than ever before. And then you will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel36:12 O land of Israel, I will again settle my people on you. They will possess you as their inheritance, and never again will you deprive them of their children." 
Ezekiel36:13 “ ‘This is what I, Lord Yahweh, say: People say about you, “You devour people and have robbed your nation of its children.”" 
Ezekiel36:14 But you will devour people no longer nor make your nation childless again, says Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel36:15 I will silence the insults of the nations. You will never again have to hear the mocking of the peoples, and you will never again cause your nation to stumble. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel36:16 Yahweh spoke to me this message: 
Ezekiel36:17 “Son of man, the Israelites defiled their own land when they lived there. In my eyes, their conduct was as unclean as a woman’s menstruation." 
Ezekiel36:18 So I vented my fury on them because of the violence and murders they had committed in the land and because of their worship of idols, which defiled the land." 
Ezekiel36:19 I dispersed them among the nations, and they were scattered throughout different countries. I judged them as their actions and conduct deserved." 
Ezekiel36:20 When my people were scattered to other lands, they dishonored my holy name in front of those nations. The people said of them, ‘ Look! These are the people of Yahweh who have been forced out of his land.’" 
Ezekiel36:21 But I have been greatly concerned about my holy name, which the people of Israel have dishonored among the nations where they have gone." 
Ezekiel36:22 Therefore, say to the people of Israel what I, Lord Yahweh, say: ‘I will not take action for your sake, people of Israel, but for the sake of the honor of my holy name, which you have caused to be slandered among the nations wherever you have gone." 
Ezekiel36:23 I am going to magnify the holiness of my great name, which you have greatly dishonored before the eyes of foreign nations. And when I magnify my holiness in you before their eyes, the nations will know that I am Yahweh. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel36:24 “ ‘I will take you from every nation and country and bring you back home to your own land. 
Ezekiel36:25 I will sprinkle purifying water over you, and you will be cleansed from all the filth of your past. I will wash you clean from the defilement of worshiping false gods." 
Ezekiel36:26 I will graciously give you a new, tender heart and put a new, willing spirit inside you. I will remove your hard heart of stone and give you an obedient, responsive heart instead." 
Ezekiel36:27 I will put my Holy Spirit in you to empower you to keep my laws and to live by them. 
Ezekiel36:28 You will live in the land that I gave your ancestors. You will be my people, and I will be your God." 
Ezekiel36:29 I will save you from everything impure within you. I will call for the grain of the field to become plentiful and not allow famine to afflict you. 
Ezekiel36:30 I will increase the produce of fruit and field so that you will never again bear the disgrace of famine among the nations. 
Ezekiel36:31 Then you will remember your evil ways and the wrongs you have done. Your guilt and evil deeds will cause you to be disgusted with yourselves. 
Ezekiel36:32 People of Israel, I assure you that it is not because you are good that I am going to do all this. You should be utterly ashamed over your conduct! I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’" 
Ezekiel36:33 “Lord Yahweh says: ‘When I cleanse you from all your guilt and shame, I will cause your ruined cities to be rebuilt and repopulated again." 
Ezekiel36:34 You will once more farm your barren land. It will not be abandoned anymore, and everyone who passes by will notice it." 
Ezekiel36:35 And they will say: “Look how this once barren land is now like the garden of Eden! All those empty, abandoned cities left in ruins are now strongholds, restored cities with people living in them.”" 
Ezekiel36:36 And the nations around you will know that I, Yahweh, have rebuilt the ruined places and replanted what was once desolate. I, Yahweh, make this promise and will do it.’" 
Ezekiel36:37 “Lord Yahweh says: ‘People of Israel, as a sign of my favor, I will once again answer your prayers. I will cause your population to increase until you are like a large flock of sheep." 
Ezekiel36:38 You will be as numerous as the huge flock of sacrificial animals in Jerusalem during her solemn feasts. Your cities that were once filled with rubble will be filled with flocks of people. And then you will know that I am Yahweh.’ ” 
Ezekiel37:1 Yahweh ’s powerful presence was upon me, and his Spirit lifted me up and carried me away. He set me down in the middle of a valley floor that was covered with countless bones." 
Ezekiel37:2 He made me walk all around the valley among all the vast piles of bones. There in the valley there were very many, very dry bones." 
Ezekiel37:3 Yahweh asked me, “Son of man, can these bones come back to life again?” And I replied, “Lord Yahweh, you are the only one who knows.”" 
Ezekiel37:4 Then he said to me, “Prophesy over these dry bones these words, ‘Dry bones, hear what Yahweh says." 
Ezekiel37:5 Lord Yahweh says to you: “ ‘I am now going to breathe into you, and you will live again!" 
Ezekiel37:6 I will attach muscles and sinews to you. I will make flesh grow on you. I will cover you with skin. I am going to breathe into you, and you will live again. And you will know that I am Yahweh.’ ”" 
Ezekiel37:7 So I prophesied as I had been told. And as I was prophesying, I began to hear a commotion. Behold! It was the clattering of these many skeletons coming together, bone to bone!" 
Ezekiel37:8 And as I kept watching, muscles and sinews miraculously appeared! Flesh grew on the bones, and then skin wrapped completely around them, yet there was still no life-breath in them." 
Ezekiel37:9 Then Yahweh said to me, “Prophesy to the breath. Yes, prophesy, son of man. Say to the breath, ‘Lord Yahweh says: Divine breath, come now from the four winds. Breathe on these lifeless bodies, so that they can live again.’ ”" 
Ezekiel37:10 So I prophesied as he had told me, and the breath entered their bodies. They came alive, got up from the ground, and stood to their feet—a very great, immense army." 
Ezekiel37:11 Then he said to me, “Son of man, these bones represent the entire house of Israel. They keep saying, ‘We are as dry as these dead bones. Our nation has been completely destroyed, and we have lost all hope.’" 
Ezekiel37:12 “So, prophesy to them, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Behold! I am now going to open your graves! My people, I will resurrect you out of your graves and lead you home to the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel37:13 And when I open your graves and raise you up, then, my people, you will be convinced that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel37:14 And I will put my Holy Spirit within you, and you will live again. I will resettle you on your own soil. Then you will know that it is I, Yahweh, who spoke to you, and I do what I say. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel37:15 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel37:16 “Son of man, take a stick and carve on it the words, ‘For Judah and all the Israelites with him.’ Then take another stick and carve on it the words, ‘The stick of Ephraim, for Joseph and all the Israelites with him.’" 
Ezekiel37:17 Now join them together to make a single piece of wood to become one stick in your hand. 
Ezekiel37:18 And when your fellow exiles ask, ‘Won’t you tell us what you mean by this?’" 
Ezekiel37:19 answer them, ‘Lord Yahweh says: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph that belongs to Ephraim and those tribes loyal to him and join them to the stick of Judah. I will make two sticks into one, a single stick in my hand.’" 
Ezekiel37:20 “Now, show the people the pieces of wood you have written on," 
Ezekiel37:21 and tell them, ‘Lord Yahweh says this: I will gather the Israelites from the nations where they have gone. I will gather them together from everywhere and bring them to their homeland." 
Ezekiel37:22 And I will make them into a single nation in the mountainous land of Israel and give them one king to be king over them all. They will never again be divided into two nations nor split into two separate kingdoms. 
Ezekiel37:23 Never again will they defile themselves with their disgusting idols, their detestable things, and rebellions. I will save them from always turning back and repeating their old sins. I will cleanse and purify them. They will be my people, and I shall be their God." 
Ezekiel37:24 “ ‘My beloved servant David will reign over them, and he will be one faithful shepherd for them all. They will walk in my ways, respect my laws, and practice them." 
Ezekiel37:25 They will live in the land that I gave to my servant Jacob, where your ancestors once lived. They and their children and grandchildren will live in it forever, and David my servant will be their prince forever." 
Ezekiel37:26 I will make my eternal covenant of peace with them. I will resettle them, and I will bless them and multiply them. I will establish my sanctuary among them forever." 
Ezekiel37:27 I will make my home above them. I will be their God, and they will be my beloved people." 
Ezekiel37:28 When my sanctuary is with them forever, then the nations will realize that I set Israel apart as my own.’ ”" 
Ezekiel38:1 Yahweh spoke to me, saying," 
Ezekiel38:2 “Son of man, turn toward Gog, of the land of Magog, and prophesy against him. Yes, set your face against Gog, that supreme prince of the lands of Meshech and Tubal, in the land of Magog." 
Ezekiel38:3 Prophesy: ‘Lord Yahweh says to you, Gog, supreme prince of Meshech and Tubal: Beware, I am against you!" 
Ezekiel38:4 I will insert hooks in your jaws and turn you around. I will drag you and all your army out of your land —all your horses and horsemen, all perfectly equipped, many warriors armed with shields large and small, and all carrying swords." 
Ezekiel38:5 Allied armies from Persia, Cush, and Put are with them, all with shield and helmet." 
Ezekiel38:6 Gomer and all its troops, Beth Togarmah in the distant north and all its troops— armies of many nations are part of your coalition." 
Ezekiel38:7 Get ready, Gog! Be well prepared, you and all your armies and those assembled with you, and take command of them." 
Ezekiel38:8 “ ‘A long time from now I will gather you together to fight. In the latter years, you will invade this country that has recovered from war. A land where the people had been brought together from other nations to live on the mountains of Israel. Although the land was deserted for a long time, I led its people out from other nations, and now they all live safe and secure." 
Ezekiel38:9 You and your vast armies and those allied with you will invade the land like a great storm and advance throughout the country and cover it like a cloud.’ 
Ezekiel38:10 “This is what Lord Yahweh says to Gog: ‘On that day, an idea will occur to you, and you will devise a sinister plan." 
Ezekiel38:11 You will say: I am going to attack this undefended country and march on the peaceful people who fear no danger. They are all living in unwalled towns without bars or gates. 
Ezekiel38:12 I will attack those living among their once ruined cities. I will turn my might against these people gathered from the nations, who acquired livestock and goods, who live in the strategic center of the land. I will plunder them and carry off the spoils." 
Ezekiel38:13 The people of Sheba and Dedan, the merchants and all the tycoons of Tarshish will ask you: Have you come for plunder? Are you massing your troops to seize spoil? Have you come to carry off gold and silver, cattle and goods, and seize unlimited spoil?’" 
Ezekiel38:14 “Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Sometime in the future, when my people the Israelites are living safe and secure, will you not take notice of it?" 
Ezekiel38:15 You will leave your home country in the distant north, you and many nations with you, and with an enormous, mighty army of countless troops on horseback." 
Ezekiel38:16 You will invade Israel, my people, like a cloud covering the countryside. In the latter days, I will bring you against my land so that the nations will know who I am when, through you, Gog, I display my holiness to them.’ ”" 
Ezekiel38:17 This is what Lord Yahweh says to Gog: “Are you not the one I spoke about in days gone by through my servants the prophets of Israel? They prophesied for years of your invasion. 
Ezekiel38:18 But I, Lord Yahweh, declare that on the day when you, Gog, attack the land of Israel, my furious wrath will boil over!" 
Ezekiel38:19 For in my passion for my people, in the heat of my anger, I have decreed that on that day, there will be a massive earthquake in the land of Israel!" 
Ezekiel38:20 The fish in the sea and the birds of heaven, animals large and small, and all people on earth will be terrified and tremble at my presence. Mountains will tumble, cliffs crumble, and all the walls will collapse." 
Ezekiel38:21 I will bring the sword against you, Gog, in the mountains of Israel, declares Lord Yahweh. Your troops will turn their swords against one another." 
Ezekiel38:22 I will punish him and his hordes and his many allies with plague and bloodshed and pour down torrential rain, hailstones, fire, and brimstone." 
Ezekiel38:23 In this way I will display my greatness and holiness and make myself known before many nations. Then they will acknowledge that I am Yahweh.” 
Ezekiel39:1 “Son of man, prophesy against Gog. Prophesy this message that I, Lord Yahweh, give to you: ‘Behold I am against you, Gog, the supreme prince of Meshech and Tubal." 
Ezekiel39:2 I will turn you around, drive you out, and bring you from the distant north to fight against the mountains of Israel." 
Ezekiel39:3 I will knock the bow from your left hand and rip the arrows out of your right. 
Ezekiel39:4 You will fall on the mountains of Israel, you and all your hordes and your coalition with you. I will feed your flesh to every kind of bird of prey and wild animal." 
Ezekiel39:5 Your corpses will lie unburied in the open fields, for I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Ezekiel39:6 “ ‘I will send down fire on Magog and on those living securely on the coastlands, and they will know that I am Yahweh." 
Ezekiel39:7 I will make sure that my holy name is acknowledged among my people Israel, and I will make sure that my holy name is no longer allowed to be profaned. Then the nations will know that I am Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel." 
Ezekiel39:8 “ ‘Behold, these things I have prophesied will happen very soon. It will all be fulfilled, for this is the day I have spoken about. I, Lord Yahweh, declare it." 
Ezekiel39:9 “ ‘Then those living in the towns of Israel will go out and gather up all the abandoned weapons of the dead soldiers, make a bonfire with them, and burn them all up—the shields large and small, bows and arrows, javelins and spears. It will take seven years to burn them all." 
Ezekiel39:10 They will not have to gather firewood from the countryside or cut it in the forests since they will be burning all the weapons. They will plunder those who plundered them and take spoils from those who took their spoils. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel39:11 “On that day, I will provide Gog a famous burial spot in Israel. It will be the Valley of Travelers east of the sea, a graveyard so large that it blocks the way of the travelers. For there they will bury Gog and his entire horde, and it will be called the Valley of Gog’s Army." 
Ezekiel39:12 It will take the Israelites seven months to bury them all in order to cleanse the land. 
Ezekiel39:13 Everyone in Israel will dig their graves, and for this, they will be honored on the day I display my glory, says Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel39:14 And after the seven months are over, men will be appointed to search full time throughout the country to find and bury any remaining corpse of the invaders so that the land will be ritually clean again." 
Ezekiel39:15 And as they go throughout the country, if one of them finds any human bones, he will set up a marker beside them so that the gravediggers can come and bury them in the Valley of Gog’s Army," 
Ezekiel39:16 near the town of Gog’s Army. After that, the land will be ritually clean again.”" 
Ezekiel39:17 Lord Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, call for the birds of every kind and for all the wild animals to assemble and come. Say to them, ‘Gather from everywhere for the sacrificial feast Yahweh prepares for you, a huge sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel. Come and feast on the bodies of those who died and drink their blood." 
Ezekiel39:18 You will eat the flesh of mighty warriors and drink the blood of the princes of the earth as if they were the best fattened animals from Bashan —rams and lambs, goats and bulls." 
Ezekiel39:19 You will gorge yourselves on fat and drink yourselves drunk on the blood of this sacrifice I am making for you. 
Ezekiel39:20 You will be filled at my table, feasting on horses and riders, on mighty warriors of every rank. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Ezekiel39:21 “I will reveal my glory to the nations. They will witness the way I judge Gog and the display of my power when I punish Gog and his great army. 
Ezekiel39:22 The people of Israel will know that I am Yahweh their God from that day forward and forever. 
Ezekiel39:23 The nations will also realize that the people of Israel went into captivity because of their guilt, for they were unfaithful to me. So, I hid my face from them and gave them over to the power of their enemies, whereby they were all killed in war." 
Ezekiel39:24 I treated them as their despicable deeds of infidelity deserved and hid my face from them.” 
Ezekiel39:25 So, Lord Yahweh says this: “Now I will be merciful and bring Jacob’s captives back and show pity on all the people of Israel. I will be zealous to not let them dishonor my holy name." 
Ezekiel39:26 They will forget their shame and all their acts of unfaithfulness that they committed against me when they were living safely in their own land with none to make them afraid. 
Ezekiel39:27 When I have brought them back from the lands of their enemies, many nations will see the display of my holiness." 
Ezekiel39:28 And they will know that I am Yahweh, the God of Israel. Yes, I sent them into exile among the nations, but I will then reunite them in their own land, not leaving a single one behind." 
Ezekiel39:29 I will pour out my Spirit on the people of Israel, and my divine presence will never again leave them. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel40:1 In the first month of the twenty-fifth year of our captivity, on the tenth day of the month, and nearly fourteen years after the Babylonians captured Jerusalem, on that day Yahweh overpowered me and carried me away to Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel40:2 In an ecstatic vision from God, he carried me away to the land of Israel and put me down on a very high mountain. As I looked toward the south, there was a group of buildings that seemed to be a city." 
Ezekiel40:3 And when he brought me closer to the buildings, behold, I saw a man standing in the gateway. His appearance was shining and glistening like polished bronze. He held a linen cord and a measuring rod in his hand." 
Ezekiel40:4 The shining man said to me, “Son of man, look closely and listen carefully. Pay close attention to everything I show you, for I have brought you here to reveal these things to you. You must tell the people of Israel everything you see.”" 
Ezekiel40:5 Behold, I saw an outer wall surrounding the whole area where the temple stood. And the shining man was holding a measuring reed, and its length was six long cubits, each cubit a forearm and a handbreadth. He measured the wall with the reed, and it was one reed high and one reed thick." 
Ezekiel40:6 He went into the opening of the gateway facing east, climbed the steps, and measured its threshold as one reed deep." 
Ezekiel40:7 Beyond the threshold was a corridor, which had rooms on each side for the guards. Each of the side rooms was square and measured one reed on each side. The space between the side rooms was five cubits. And the inside threshold of the gate leading to the portico facing the temple was one reed deep." 
Ezekiel40:8 Then he measured the porch of the gate on the inside. 
Ezekiel40:9 It was eight cubits deep, flanked by pillars two cubits thick. The porch opened onto the temple courtyard." 
Ezekiel40:10 On each side of the east gate there were three guardrooms, all three the same size, and the walls that separated them were the same size." 
Ezekiel40:11 He measured the width of the entrance as ten cubits and its length, thirteen cubits." 
Ezekiel40:12 And there was a low wall one cubit high in front of the guardrooms. Each of the guardrooms was six cubits square. 
Ezekiel40:13 Then he measured the width of the gate from the top back wall of one guardroom to the top back wall of the opposite one. It was twenty-five cubits straight across. 
Ezekiel40:14 He calculated the height of the porch, which led out to a courtyard, as sixty cubits high." 
Ezekiel40:15 From the outside wall of the gate to the far side of the porch, he measured as fifty cubits." 
Ezekiel40:16 On all the inside walls of the gateway were windows with narrow recesses all around. The walls of the guardrooms, the walls between them, and the walls of the porch likewise had windows all around. And there were palm trees carved on the inner walls of the corridor and on the doorways." 
Ezekiel40:17 Then the shining man brought me into the outer court, and behold, there was a spacious terrace paved with stones, and thirty chambers were built against the outer wall." 
Ezekiel40:18 This paved terrace, or Lower Terrace, was as wide as the gateways were long and extended throughout the courtyard." 
Ezekiel40:19 Then he measured the width of the courtyard, from the inside of the lower gateway to the outside of the inner court; it was one hundred cubits on the east side. Then he went to measure the north side." 
Ezekiel40:20 Behold, there was a gate in the outer courtyard that faced to the north. He measured its length and width." 
Ezekiel40:21 The length of the gateway was fifty cubits, and its width was twenty-five cubits. Its pillars and porch were of the same size as those of the first gate. It also had three guardrooms on each side." 
Ezekiel40:22 Its windows, its porch, and its palm trees were of the same measurement as those of the east gate. There were also seven steps leading up to it, and its porch was at the end facing the courtyard." 
Ezekiel40:23 In the inner court across from the north gate there was another gateway leading into the inner courtyard, just as there was opposite the east gate. He measured the distance from one gate to the other, and it was one hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel40:24 Next, the shining man took me to the south side, and behold, there was another gate. He measured its pillars and porch; they were of the same dimensions as the others." 
Ezekiel40:25 The gateway, as well as its porch, had narrow windows all around, like the windows of the others; it was fifty cubits long and twenty-five wide" 
Ezekiel40:26 and had seven steps leading up to it. Its porch was at the inner end and had palm trees carved on its pillars, one on either side." 
Ezekiel40:27 There was also a lower gate on the south side of the inner court. He measured the distance southward from one gate to the other as one hundred cubits. 
Ezekiel40:28 He then took me into the inner court by the south gate. He measured the south gate, and its dimensions were the same as the others." 
Ezekiel40:29 Its guardrooms, pillars, and porch were also the same size as the others." 
Ezekiel40:30 There were porches all around the gateway and each porch was fifty cubits long and five cubits wide. 
Ezekiel40:31 The porches all faced the outer court with eight steps leading up to them. And palm trees were carved on the pillars of the corridor. 
Ezekiel40:32 Then he took me into the inner court on the east side and measured the gateway. It was identical in size to the others. 
Ezekiel40:33 Its guardrooms, pillars, and porches were of the same dimensions as the others. The gateway, as well as its porch, had windows all around. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide." 
Ezekiel40:34 Its porch faced the outer court with eight steps leading up to it, and there were palm trees carved on its pillars." 
Ezekiel40:35 Then the shining man brought me to the north gate and measured it, and it had the same dimensions as the others." 
Ezekiel40:36 Its guardrooms, pillars, and porches were of the same dimension as the others. The gateway had narrow windows all around. It was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide." 
Ezekiel40:37 Its porch faced the outer court, and there were eight steps leading up to it, and there were palm trees carved on its pillars on either side." 
Ezekiel40:38 In each of the inner gateways there was a chamber with a doorway by the porch, where they washed the burnt offerings." 
Ezekiel40:39 And inside the porches of the gates there were two tables placed on each side, on which the burnt offerings, sin offerings, and guilt offerings were slaughtered." 
Ezekiel40:40 Outside the north gate, near the steps to the entrance, two tables were placed against both outside walls of the porches—" 
Ezekiel40:41 four tables inside and four tables outside, eight tables in all for slaughtering the animals for sacrifice." 
Ezekiel40:42 There were also four slabs of hewn stone used for the burnt offerings that were each a cubit and a half long, a cubit and a half wide, and one cubit high. The instruments used for slaughtering the burnt offerings and sacrificial animals were placed on these slabs." 
Ezekiel40:43 And four-inch-long double-pronged hooks were fastened to the wall all around the stone tables. And the carcasses of the sacrificial animals were prepared on the tables. 
Ezekiel40:44 Then he brought me into the inner courtyard just outside the north gate. Behold, I saw chambers for the singers of the inner court, one on the side of the north gate, facing south, the other on the side of the south gate, facing north." 
Ezekiel40:45 The shining man told me, “The chamber facing south is for the priests responsible for the service of the temple." 
Ezekiel40:46 And the chamber facing north is for the priests responsible for the sacrifices of the altar. These are the sons of Zadok, for only the sons of Levi are permitted to go into Yahweh ’s presence to serve him.”" 
Ezekiel40:47 Then he measured the inner courtyard. It was one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide, a square with the altar standing in front of the temple." 
Ezekiel40:48 Then he brought me to the entrance porch of the temple building, and he measured the gateposts of the porch. They were five cubits thick on either side, and the width of the gate was fourteen cubits. The sidewalls of the gate were three cubits on either side." 
Ezekiel40:49 The entrance porch itself was twenty cubits long and twelve cubits wide. There were ten steps leading up to it, and there were pillars by the gateposts, one on either side." 
Ezekiel41:1 The shining man brought me to the Holy Place and measured its doorframes; each was six cubits wide. 
Ezekiel41:2 The width of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sides of the entrance were five cubits on each side, its length was forty cubits, and its width twenty cubits." 
Ezekiel41:3 Then he went inside the innermost chamber and measured the doorframes at the entrance as two cubits, then the entrance as six cubits, and the width of the entrance as seven cubits." 
Ezekiel41:4 He measured its length and width as twenty cubits, at the end of the outer sanctuary. Then he said to me, “This is the Holy of Holies.”" 
Ezekiel41:5 He then measured the wall of the temple as six cubits thick. There were side rooms all around the temple that were each four cubits wide. 
Ezekiel41:6 And there were three levels of the side rooms, with thirty rooms on each floor. All around the wall of the temple were ledges that served as supports for the side rooms so that they did not have to be attached to the temple wall for support." 
Ezekiel41:7 The rooms were right up to the temple walls. The width of the side rooms increased, floor by floor, because the width of the temple increased as it got higher, from the lowest level through the middle level to the top level." 
Ezekiel41:8 Then I looked down and saw that the temple stood on a raised platform that surrounded it. The platform was a full measuring reed high (six cubits) and provided a foundation for the side rooms. 
Ezekiel41:9 The outer wall of the side rooms was five cubits thick. On the raised platform there was a terrace all around the side rooms of the temple. It was twenty cubits between the edge of the platform and the rooms for the priests. 
Ezekiel41:10  
Ezekiel41:11 And the doors of the side rooms faced an open area, one door toward the north and one door toward the south. The width of the open area was five cubits wide all around." 
Ezekiel41:12 The building on the west side of the courtyard was seventy cubits wide. The wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length was ninety cubits." 
Ezekiel41:13 Then the shining man measured the length of the temple as one hundred cubits. The length of the courtyard plus the building and its walls was also one hundred cubits. 
Ezekiel41:14 The width of the courtyard on the east, including the front of the temple, was likewise one hundred cubits." 
Ezekiel41:15 Then he measured the length of the building west of the courtyard, including its balconies on either side, which was also one hundred cubits. The entire inside of the Holy Place, the porches of the courtyard," 
Ezekiel41:16 the thresholds, the windows, and the galleries on three sides that faced the threshold were paneled with wood all around, from the floor up to the windows. And the windows were screened with latticework." 
Ezekiel41:17 On the door to the inner part of the temple and on all the walls all around, both inside and outside," 
Ezekiel41:18 were carved alternating cherubim and palm trees. Each of the cherubim had two faces," 
Ezekiel41:19 a human face that gazed toward the palm tree on one side and the face of a young lion turned toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved throughout the temple everywhere. 
Ezekiel41:20 The Holy Place had the same pattern of cherubim and palm trees carved on the wall from the floor to the space above the doors. 
Ezekiel41:21 The columns of the doorway to the Holy Place were square, and the columns at the entrance to the Holy of Holies were similar." 
Ezekiel41:22 A wooden altar was there, three cubits high, two cubits long, and two cubits wide. Its corners, base, and sides were of wood. The shining man said to me, “This is the table that always stands in the presence of Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel41:23 The Holy Place and the Holy of Holies had double doors. 
Ezekiel41:24 Each of the doors had two hinged leaves that swung open in the middle. 
Ezekiel41:25 On the doors of the Holy Place were carved cherubim and palm trees just like those carved on the walls. There was a wooden roof over the outside of the doorway to the Holy Place. 
Ezekiel41:26 And there were niches with palm trees on either side in the front walls of the temple porch. And the side rooms of the temple also had canopies. 
Ezekiel42:1 Then the shining man brought me northward into the outer court and brought me to the rooms opposite the temple courtyard and opposite the outer wall on the north side. 
Ezekiel42:2 Along the front, the building was one hundred cubits long on the north side and fifty cubits wide." 
Ezekiel42:3 On one side of the building was the twenty-cubit-wide plaza of the inner courtyard. On the other side was the paved walkway of the outer courtyard. The building itself was three stories high and had balconies. 
Ezekiel42:4 And in front of the rooms was an inner passageway, ten cubits wide and one hundred cubits long, and all their doors faced north." 
Ezekiel42:5 The top-floor rooms were narrower than those on the middle and bottom stories of the building because the balconies took up some of the space of the lower stories. 
Ezekiel42:6 The rooms on the third floor had no columns like the pillars of the outer courtyard. That is why the top story was narrower than the middle and bottom stories. The rooms became smaller the higher they went. 
Ezekiel42:7 There was a wall in the outer courtyard, parallel to the rooms, that was fifty cubits long." 
Ezekiel42:8 The wall was like this because the row of rooms along the outer courtyard was fifty cubits long, while the row of rooms that faced the temple was one hundred cubits long." 
Ezekiel42:9 Beneath the rooms there was an entrance facing east so that a person could enter them from the outer court. On the south side of the temple, along the broad wall of the outer court, adjoining the temple courtyard, facing the outer wall there was a building containing rooms, with a passageway in front of them." 
Ezekiel42:10  
Ezekiel42:11 These south side rooms were like those rooms on the north side, with the same entry and exit doors and the same dimensions. There was also an entrance to the rooms at the beginning of the walkway—the walkway before the corresponding wall that faced east." 
Ezekiel42:12  
Ezekiel42:13 The shining man said to me, “The northern and southern rooms facing the courtyard are holy chambers, the place where the priests who approach Yahweh will eat the most holy offerings. Because this is a holy place, the most holy offerings will be stored there: the grain offering, the sacrifice for sin, and the guilt offering." 
Ezekiel42:14 When the priests have served inside the temple, they must first take off their priestly garments and leave them in the rooms before going out into the courtyard. Their priestly garments are holy, so they must change their clothes before going near other people.”" 
Ezekiel42:15 When the shining man had finished measuring the inner temple area, he took me out through the east gate and measured the outside wall of the temple compound." 
Ezekiel42:16 Using his measuring rod, he measured all the east side as five hundred cubits total." 
Ezekiel42:17 He measured all the north side as five hundred cubits by the measuring rod. 
Ezekiel42:18 He measured all the south side as five hundred cubits by the measuring rod. 
Ezekiel42:19 Then he turned to the west side and measured it as five hundred cubits by the measuring rod. 
Ezekiel42:20 And so he measured the temple compound on all four sides. The wall of the temple compound was five hundred cubits square, to mark the boundary between what was holy and what was common." 
Ezekiel43:1 Afterward, the shining man led me to the gate facing east." 
Ezekiel43:2 And behold, I saw the glory of the God of Israel storming from the east with a roar! A thunderous sound came with him like the sound of a great waterfall. All the ground was glowing brightly, illuminated by his glorious presence." 
Ezekiel43:3 This vision was like the one I had seen when he came to destroy the city and like those visions I had experienced by the River Chebar. Then I fell facedown to the ground. 
Ezekiel43:4 The awesome glory of Yahweh entered the temple through the eastern gate. 
Ezekiel43:5 Then Yahweh ’s Spirit lifted me into the air and set me down in the inner courtyard; and behold, I watched the glory of Yahweh like a cloud fill the temple." 
Ezekiel43:6 While the shining man stood beside me, I heard the voice of one speaking to me from inside the temple." 
Ezekiel43:7 And he said to me, “Son of man, this is the place of my throne, the place on which I will rest my feet, where I will live among the Israelites forever. And the people of Israel and their kings will never again drag my holy name through the mud. They will never disgrace me again by their spiritual prostitution or memorials to their dead kings" 
Ezekiel43:8 or by putting their threshold beside my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with only a wall between us. They have defiled my holy name by their despicable practices, so in my anger I put an end to them." 
Ezekiel43:9 Now they must put away their unfaithfulness of worshiping other gods and put away the corpses of their kings from my presence, and I will make my home with them forever." 
Ezekiel43:10 “Son of man, describe this temple in detail to the people of Israel so that they will be ashamed of their despicable deeds. Let them carefully study the perfect structure of the temple." 
Ezekiel43:11 Then, if they truly express sorrow over their sins, explain to them the design and plan of the temple—its exits and entrances, its shape, its arrangement, the entire design, and all its rules for operation. Sketch it out for them so that they can observe and understand the entire plan and follow all its rules.”" 
Ezekiel43:12 “This is the law of the temple: the mountaintop radiates his glory, therefore, all around the Temple Mount will be a most holy area. Behold, this is the most important law of the temple.”" 
Ezekiel43:13 “This is the measurement of the altar using the same unit of measurement as the rest of the temple: The base is one cubit high and one cubit wide, with a rim of one span around its edge. The altar itself is to be this high:" 
Ezekiel43:14 from the base on the ground to the lower ledge, two cubits, with a width of one cubit. And from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge, four cubits high and one cubit wide." 
Ezekiel43:15 The altar hearth is to be four cubits high, with four horns projecting upward from the hearth," 
Ezekiel43:16 and the hearth a perfect square: twelve cubits long by twelve cubits wide. 
Ezekiel43:17 The ledge is also to be a square: fourteen cubits long and fourteen cubits wide on four sides with a rim around it of half a cubit, and its surrounding base one cubit. Its steps are on the east side of the altar.”" 
Ezekiel43:18 Lord Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, here are the rules you must follow when the altar is built to offer burnt offerings and to splash on it the blood of the animals they sacrifice." 
Ezekiel43:19 You must give a young bull to the Levitical priests, the descendants of Zadok. They are the ones who may come before me to serve me and offer the bull as a sacrifice for sin, declares Lord Yahweh." 
Ezekiel43:20 You must take some of its blood and smear it on the four horns, on the four corners of the ledge, and on its surrounding rim. In this way you will purify it and make atonement for it." 
Ezekiel43:21 Then take the bull offered as the sacrifice for sin and burn its carcass in the appointed place outside the sacred area. 
Ezekiel43:22 On the second day, you must offer an unblemished male goat as the sin offering, and the priests must purify the altar again as they did on the first day with the bull." 
Ezekiel43:23 When you have finished purifying the altar, you must offer a young, unblemished bull and a young, unblemished ram." 
Ezekiel43:24 You must present them before me, and the Zadokite priests will sprinkle salt on them and offer them as burnt offerings to me." 
Ezekiel43:25 Each day for seven days you must sacrifice to me a young male goat, a young bull, and a young ram as a sin offering. All of them must be unblemished animals." 
Ezekiel43:26 In this way the altar will be purified, cleansed, and consecrated for seven days." 
Ezekiel43:27 When the seven days of consecration are over, on the eighth day and each day afterward, the priest will offer burnt offerings and communion sacrifices on the altar on behalf of the people. And I will accept you and be pleased with you. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel44:1 Then the shining man brought me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary, which faces east, but it was shut." 
Ezekiel44:2 Yahweh said to me, “This gate must be kept shut. No one may open it or enter through it, since Yahweh, the God of Israel, has passed through it. Therefore, it must remain shut." 
Ezekiel44:3 The prince, and only the prince, may sit inside the gateway to eat his sacred meal in the presence of Yahweh. He must enter and leave through the porch of the gate of the outer courtyard.”" 
Ezekiel44:4 Then the shining man led me through the north gate to the front of the temple. And I looked and behold, I saw Yahweh ’s glory cloud filling the temple. And I was awestruck and fell facedown to the ground." 
Ezekiel44:5 And Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, set your heart on what I am about to tell you. Look closely and listen carefully to everything I explain regarding all the laws and instructions about my temple. Pay careful attention to the entrance to the temple and all the exits from the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel44:6 And tell the rebels among the people of Israel, ‘Lord Yahweh says to you: Enough of all your despicable deeds, you people of Israel!" 
Ezekiel44:7 You have desecrated my temple by admitting gentiles into my sanctuary who are uncircumcised in heart and body, allowing them into my presence while you offer the fat and blood of sacrifices to me. You have broken my covenant in addition to all the wicked things you have done." 
Ezekiel44:8 Instead of keeping charge of my holy things yourselves, you have placed these gentiles in charge of my sanctuary.’ ”" 
Ezekiel44:9 Lord Yahweh says, “No gentile, uncircumcised in heart and body, may enter my sanctuary, even the foreigners living among the Israelites." 
Ezekiel44:10 For the Levites who abandoned me when Israel turned their backs on me to worship their false gods must bear the consequences of their own sin. 
Ezekiel44:11 They may serve me in my sanctuary by being temple gatekeepers and temple servants. They may kill the animals the people bring to offer as burnt offerings and sacrifices for the people and by serving the worshipers in the temple. 
Ezekiel44:12 But because they assisted the people of Israel in the worship of their idols and thereby caused them to sin, I, Lord Yahweh, solemnly swear that they will suffer for their sin." 
Ezekiel44:13 They will never draw near to me again to fulfill the priestly office in my presence, nor will they ever again touch my holy things—my very, very holy things! They must bear the shame and disgrace of their despicable deeds." 
Ezekiel44:14 I will, however, assign them the responsibility of performing temple duties in the outer court. I will make them responsible for serving the temple and the work to be done in it.”" 
Ezekiel44:15 Yahweh says, “The Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who faithfully served in my sanctuary when the rest of the Israelites strayed far from me, they will come near to me to minister to me. I, Lord Yahweh, declare that they will stand in my presence to offer the sacrifices of fat and blood." 
Ezekiel44:16 They will enter my sanctuary and approach my table to minister to me and to oversee the temple worship. 
Ezekiel44:17 “When the Zadokite priests enter the gates of the inner court, they must be wearing linen garments. They are not allowed to wear any wool clothing when they are on duty inside the inner court or in the temple." 
Ezekiel44:18 Their turbans and undergarments must all likewise be of linen. They are not to wear anything that makes them perspire. 
Ezekiel44:19 When they finish their sacred duties, before they go out to mingle with the people in the outer court, they must remove their priestly garments they ministered in and leave them in the holy chamber rooms. They then must put on regular clothes so that they will not transmit holiness to the people through their sacred garments." 
Ezekiel44:20 “The priests must not shave their heads nor let their hair grow long, but must keep it properly trimmed." 
Ezekiel44:21 “Priests must not drink wine before they enter the inner court. 
Ezekiel44:22 “They may not marry a widow or a divorced woman but only an Israelite virgin. They may, however, marry a widow if she is the widow of a priest." 
Ezekiel44:23 “They must teach my people the difference between what is holy and what is ordinary and make them understand the difference between what is ritually clean for God’s service and what is ritually unacceptable. 
Ezekiel44:24 “If a dispute arises, the priests will judge it consistent with my laws. They must follow my instructions and regulations for all my appointed feasts and honor my holy Sabbaths." 
Ezekiel44:25 “A priest must not defile himself by going near a dead person; however, if the dead person was his father or mother, son or daughter, brother, or unmarried sister, then he may defile himself." 
Ezekiel44:26 After his purification, he must wait seven days." 
Ezekiel44:27 And the first day he goes back into the inner court to minister in the Holy Place, he must offer his sin offering. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel44:28 Yahweh says of the priests, “I will be their sole inheritance. You are not to give them any possession in Israel, for I alone am their sole possession." 
Ezekiel44:29 “Their food will be the grain offering, the sin offerings, and the guilt offerings. Everything dedicated by vow to God in Israel will be theirs." 
Ezekiel44:30 All the best fruits of every kind and all the offerings that the people give to God must go to the priests. And you must also give the first portion of the grain you grind into flour to the priests so that a blessing may rest on your house. 
Ezekiel44:31 Priests must not eat any bird or animal that has died a natural death or that wild animals have killed.” 
Ezekiel45:1 “When you apportion the land as an inheritance to each tribe, you must set aside a sacred portion for Yahweh. It is to be 25,000 cubits long and 20,000 cubits wide. The entire area of this land will be sacred." 
Ezekiel45:2 And inside this area, a square plot of land 500 cubits by 500 cubits must be set apart for the temple compound. All around the temple compound there will be a strip of open land that is 50 cubits wide on each side." 
Ezekiel45:3 Within this sacred portion you must mark off an area that is 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 cubits wide. This is the area set apart for the temple, the Holy of Holies." 
Ezekiel45:4 “This dedicated part of the land will be for the priests who minister before Yahweh in his sanctuary. It will be for the priests’ houses and for the holy precincts of the temple. 
Ezekiel45:5 The other half of the area, a section 25,000 cubits long and 10,000 cubits wide, will be owned by the Levites who minister at the temple, with towns for them to live in." 
Ezekiel45:6 You must assign an area 25,000 cubits long by 5,000 cubits wide, adjacent to the land belonging to my sanctuary. This will belong to all the people of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel45:7 “The prince will have land on both sides of the holy area and the city. West of the holy area and the city, his land will reach to the Mediterranean Sea. East of the holy area and the city, his land will reach to the eastern border of the country. It will correspond in length to the land given to each tribe." 
Ezekiel45:8 This will be the prince’s property in Israel. Then my leaders will no longer bully and oppress my people. They will permit the people of Israel to live peacefully and possess the rest of the country for its tribes.” 
Ezekiel45:9 Lord Yahweh says this: “You have overstepped your bounds, you leaders of Israel! Stop your violence and oppression and start practicing justice and righteousness. I, Lord Yahweh, say to you: Do what is right and just, and stop forcing people from their homes so that you can take their property." 
Ezekiel45:10 You must have accurate scales and a true standard of measurement for grains (known as an ephah) and for liquids (known as a bath). 
Ezekiel45:11 The measurement of an ephah and bath must be equal, and each will be one-tenth of a homer, the bath and the ephah one-tenth of a homer. The standard for measuring will be based on the homer." 
Ezekiel45:12 A shekel is to consist of twenty gerahs. A mina is to consist of sixty shekels.” 
Ezekiel45:13 “These are the things you must bring as an offering to God: “One-sixtieth of your wheat, One-sixtieth of your barley," 
Ezekiel45:14 One-hundredth of your olive oil, using the standard measurement known by all," 
Ezekiel45:15 Then, one sheep (or goat) is to be taken from every flock of two hundred livestock from the well-watered pastures of Israel. “I, Lord Yahweh, declare that these offerings will be for grain offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings, to make atonement for the people." 
Ezekiel45:16 “All the people of the land will be required to give these offerings to the prince of Israel. 
Ezekiel45:17 The prince will be responsible to provide the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the drink offerings for feasts, new moons, Sabbaths, and all the appointed feasts of the people of Israel. The prince must provide the sacrifice for sin, the grain offering, the burnt offering, and the fellowship offerings to make atonement for the people of Israel.”" 
Ezekiel45:18 Lord Yahweh says: “On the first day of each new year, you must select a perfect young bull without blemish to sacrifice to purify the sanctuary." 
Ezekiel45:19 The priest must take the blood of the sin offering and smear it on the doorposts of the temple, on the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and on the posts of the gate to the inner courtyard." 
Ezekiel45:20 You must do the same seven days later, on behalf of anyone who has sinned unintentionally or through ignorance. In this way you will purify the temple." 
Ezekiel45:21 “Then seven days later, on the fourteenth day of the first month, you will observe the Passover Feast for seven days. During that time everyone must eat bread made without yeast." 
Ezekiel45:22 On the first day of the feast, the prince must offer a bull as a sacrifice for sin, for himself and all the sins of the people of the land." 
Ezekiel45:23 And on each of the seven days of the festival the prince will offer Yahweh a burnt offering of seven young bulls and seven rams without blemish or defect. And every day he will also offer a male goat to take away the sins of the people. 
Ezekiel45:24 The prince must also offer one ephah of grain for each bull and each ram sacrificed. And he will also offer one hin of oil for each ephah.” 
Ezekiel45:25 “On the fifteenth day of the seventh month and on each of the seven days of the Feast of Tabernacles, the prince must supply the provisions for the sin offerings, burnt offerings, grain offerings, and the oil.”" 
Ezekiel46:1 Lord Yahweh says: “The east gate of the inner courtyard must remain closed for the six working days. However, on the Sabbath day and the day of the new moon, it will be open." 
Ezekiel46:2 The prince must enter through the porch of the outer gate and stand by the posts of the gateway as the priests offer his burnt offering and his fellowship offering on his behalf. He must bow down and worship at the threshold of the gate. Then the prince will go out the same gate he entered, but the gate will remain open until evening." 
Ezekiel46:3 Each Sabbath and each new moon, all the people of the land will bow down and worship in the presence of Yahweh at the entrance to the gate." 
Ezekiel46:4 “On the Sabbath, I want the prince to bring to me six lambs and one ram, all without flaws, and the priests will burn them as an offering to me." 
Ezekiel46:5 Additionally, I want the prince to also give me one ephah of grain with the ram as an offering and as much grain offering as he wants to give for each lamb, plus a hin of olive oil for every ephah of flour." 
Ezekiel46:6 “On the day of the new moon, I want the prince to offer to me a young unblemished bull, six unblemished lambs, and one unblemished ram." 
Ezekiel46:7 And with his offerings, I want him also to bring to me one ephah of grain for the bull and one ephah of grain for the ram, and as much flour and oil as he wants for the lambs, and a hin of oil for every ephah of grain." 
Ezekiel46:8 “When the prince enters, he must enter and exit the outer courtyard by the porch of the gate." 
Ezekiel46:9 “When the people of Israel come into my presence for the solemn festivals, the prince will be with them, coming in with them and going out with them. When they enter the outer courtyard, they will all go in from either the north side or south side of the temple. Those who have come in by the north gate to bow in worship must go out by the south gate, and those who have come in by the south gate must go out by the north gate. No one will turn around and leave through the same gate by which he entered, but they must go out on the opposite side." 
Ezekiel46:10  
Ezekiel46:11 “On the feast days and solemn festivals the prince’s grain offering must be one ephah for every bull, one ephah for every ram, and as much as he wants for the lambs, and a hin of oil for every ephah of grain." 
Ezekiel46:12 When the prince offers me a freewill burnt offering or a freewill fellowship sacrifice, the east gate must be opened for him, and he will make his offering as he does on the Sabbath day. When he leaves, the priests will shut the gate behind him." 
Ezekiel46:13 “Every day, he must provide a year-old flawless lamb as a burnt offering to me for the morning sacrifice." 
Ezekiel46:14 Additionally, every morning, he must provide a grain offering of one-sixth of an ephah and one-third hin of olive oil, to mix with the flour. This grain offering to me will be a lasting ordinance for all time." 
Ezekiel46:15 Every single morning, the lamb, the grain, and the olive oil must be offered to me.”" 
Ezekiel46:16 Lord Yahweh says: “If the prince gives a gift of his land to any of his sons, that land will belong to his descendants. It is their property by inheritance." 
Ezekiel46:17 If, however, he gives part of his inheritance to one of his servants, it will belong to him until the year of liberty, and then it must return to the prince. Only he and his sons will own it permanently." 
Ezekiel46:18 The prince may not evict anyone from their land or seize any part of the family property of any Israelite. He must provide an inheritance for his sons out of his own property so that no member of my people is robbed of what is his!” 
Ezekiel46:19 Then the shining man took me through the entrance at the side of the north gate that leads to the priests’ holy chambers. And behold, there before us was a place at the western end of the rooms." 
Ezekiel46:20 He said to me, “This is the kitchen where the priests must boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they must bake the grain offering without having to carry them into the outer court and inadvertently transmit holiness to the people.”" 
Ezekiel46:21 Then he brought me out to the outer court and led me to each of its four corners. And in each corner of the outer court was an enclosure. 
Ezekiel46:22 Each enclosure in the corners was the same size, forty cubits by thirty cubits." 
Ezekiel46:23 All four enclosures had stone shelves on the walls with built-in fireplaces all around the walls under the ledge. 
Ezekiel46:24 Then the shining man said to me, “These are the kitchens where the temple servants will cook the sacrifices the people offer.”" 
Ezekiel47:1 Then the shining man brought me back to the entrance of the temple, and I saw water flowing from underneath the temple threshold. It was flowing eastward (for the temple faced east). Water was trickling out from the south side of the temple, south of the altar." 
Ezekiel47:2 Then he took me out by the north gate and led me around the outside to the gate that faces east. And there I saw water flowing out on the right-hand side, south of the gateway." 
Ezekiel47:3 The man holding his measuring line walked east and measured off a thousand cubits. Then he made me wade across the shallow water, and it was ankle deep." 
Ezekiel47:4 He measured off another thousand cubits and told me to wade across the stream again; the water was up to my knees. He measured off another thousand cubits and made me wade across the stream again, and the water was up to my waist." 
Ezekiel47:5 He measured off another thousand; it was now a river over my head, which I was unable to swim across. It was a deep swollen river—a river no one could cross." 
Ezekiel47:6 The shining man said to me, “Son of man, do you see this?” Then he brought me back to the riverbank." 
Ezekiel47:7 When I got there, I was astonished to see an enormous number of trees on each side of the river." 
Ezekiel47:8 He said, “This water flows east, down to the Jordan Valley and to the Dead Sea. As it flows into the stagnant waters, that water becomes fresh water." 
Ezekiel47:9 Wherever the river flows, all living creatures will live and thrive. Schools of fish will be very plentiful, for wherever the river goes, it brings healing, and everything will come alive!" 
Ezekiel47:10 Fishermen will crowd its banks and spread their nets from En-Gedi to En-Eglaim. They will catch as many species of fish as there are in the Great Sea. 
Ezekiel47:11 However, its swamps and marshes will not become healed but will be left for salt." 
Ezekiel47:12 “Along both banks of the river, every kind of fruit tree will flourish. And their leaves will never wither, and abundant fruit will always be on their branches. Each month they will bear a fresh crop of fruit because this life-giving water comes from inside the sanctuary. And their fruit will be good to eat, and the leaves will bring healing.”" 
Ezekiel47:13 Lord Yahweh says: “Behold, here are the territorial boundaries for your distribution of land among the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall receive a double portion." 
Ezekiel47:14 You will each have a fair share of it since I swore to your ancestors that I would give it to them. So now, this land will belong to you as family property." 
Ezekiel47:15 “These will be the borders of the land. The northern border starts at the Mediterranean Sea and stretches east along the road to the town of Hethlon, through Hamath Pass, to the town of Zedad," 
Ezekiel47:16 and then on to the towns of Berothah and Sibraim. These two towns are on the border between Damascus and Hamath. It will extend as far as Hazer-ha-Tikon, which is on the border of the region of Hauran." 
Ezekiel47:17 So, your northern frontier will extend from the sea to Hazer-Enon, which is north of Damascus and the border of Hamath on the north." 
Ezekiel47:18 “The Jordan River will serve as your eastern border between Hauran and Damascus, between Gilead and Israel, down to the Dead Sea as far south as Tamar." 
Ezekiel47:19 “Your southern border stretches west from Tamar southward to the waters of Meribah-Kadesh, following the dry riverbed to the Mediterranean Sea; that will be your southern border." 
Ezekiel47:20 And your western boundary will follow the coast of the Mediterranean Sea from the southern border north to the point opposite Hamath Pass; that will be the western frontier. 
Ezekiel47:21 “Divide this land among the tribes of Israel. 
Ezekiel47:22 You must distribute it as an inheritance for yourselves and the resident aliens who live among you, who have their children among you, since you must treat them as citizens of Israel. They must receive a share of the land for their inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel." 
Ezekiel47:23 In whatever tribe the resident alien resides, that is where you will assign his share. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel48:1 “This is the list of the tribes and the land they are to receive. The border follows the Hethlon road to the boundary between Damascus and Hamath. The territory for each tribe will extend all the way across the country from east to west. Starting from the north, the tribes are: Dan Asher Naphtali Manasseh Ephraim Reuben Judah.”" 
Ezekiel48:2  
Ezekiel48:3  
Ezekiel48:4  
Ezekiel48:5  
Ezekiel48:6  
Ezekiel48:7  
Ezekiel48:8 “South of Judah, from the eastern limit to the western limit, is the special portion of holy land that you must set aside. The temple complex will stand in the center. That land will be 25,000 cubits wide and the same length as one of the tribal portions from the east side to the west." 
Ezekiel48:9 The portion that you must set aside for Yahweh must be 25,000 cubits long and 20,000 cubits wide." 
Ezekiel48:10 “Here is how you will divide the sacred section of land. You will give the priests a portion of land that is 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 cubits in width. The temple of Yahweh will stand inside this area in the center." 
Ezekiel48:11 This will be for the sons of Zadok, the consecrated priests who faithfully served me. They did not join with the straying Israelites, as did the other Levites who went astray." 
Ezekiel48:12 It will be a special gift to them from the sacred portion of the land, a most holy portion on the border of the Levites." 
Ezekiel48:13 “Alongside the border of the priests, the Levites’ portion will be 25,000 cubits in length and 10,000 cubits in width. The whole length will be 25,000 cubits and 10,000 cubits in width." 
Ezekiel48:14 It is forbidden for them to sell or exchange any part of it. They are not to allow anyone else to own this special land, since it is consecrated to Yahweh.”" 
Ezekiel48:15 “The rest of the special area is 25,000 cubits long and 5,000 cubits wide. This must be for the common use of the city, for houses and pastures. In the middle will be the city of Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel48:16 The dimensions of the city will form a square with 4,500 cubits on each side." 
Ezekiel48:17 There will be an open space of 250 cubits around the perimeter of the city. 
Ezekiel48:18 “There will remain one strip of land along the sacred portion left over that will extend 10,000 cubits to the east of the city and 10,000 cubits to the west of the city. This portion will be used to grow food for the people who work in the city." 
Ezekiel48:19 And the city workers, drawn from all the tribes of Israel, will farm it." 
Ezekiel48:20 The entire portion of land you must set apart will have a total area of 25,000 cubits square, that is, the sacred portion of land for the temple together with the area for the city." 
Ezekiel48:21 “This 25,000-cubit square will contain the holy portion of the priests, the Levites’ land, and the land where the city will be. It will be in the middle of the prince’s land, and he will have any land remaining on either side of the sacred portion and of the property of the city. The prince will have two sections, one stretching from the edge of this area to the eastern border of the country, the other stretching from the other edge of this area to the western border. These two sections of land belonging to the prince will run alongside the borders of the territories of Judah and Benjamin. It will lie between those two territories south of Judah and north of Benjamin.”" 
Ezekiel48:22  
Ezekiel48:23 “As regards the remaining tribes south of this sacred section, each tribe is to receive one portion of land that extends from the eastern boundary west to the Mediterranean Sea: Benjamin Simeon Issachar Zebulun Gad." 
Ezekiel48:24  
Ezekiel48:25  
Ezekiel48:26  
Ezekiel48:27  
Ezekiel48:28 “And adjoining the territory of Gad, on the south side, the border will run from Tamar to the waters of Meribah-Kadesh, following the dry riverbed to the Mediterranean Sea." 
Ezekiel48:29 This is how you must distribute the land to the tribes of Israel as their inheritance. These are to be their portions. I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Ezekiel48:30 “Here are the twelve exits from the city. Each gate is to be named after a tribe of Israel. Each of the four walls of the city will extend for 4,500 cubits and has three gates in it. The three gates on the north side are to be named Reuben, Judah, and Levi. The three gates on the east side are to be named Joseph, Benjamin, and Dan. The three gates on the south side are to be named Simeon, Issachar, and Zebulun. The three gates on the west side are to be named Gad, Asher, and Naphtali." 
Ezekiel48:31  
Ezekiel48:32  
Ezekiel48:33  
Ezekiel48:34  
Ezekiel48:35 The total perimeter of the city is to be 18,000 cubits. “From that time on the city will be called Yahweh -Lives-There!”" 
Daniel1:1 It was the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, marched on Jerusalem and besieged the city." 
Daniel1:2 My Lord gave Nebuchadnezzar victory over King Jehoiakim and permitted the Babylonian ruler to remove some of the sacred vessels belonging to the temple of the true God. Nebuchadnezzar carried them away to the land of Babylon and placed the sacred vessels into the temple treasury of his own gods. 
Daniel1:3 Later, the king ordered Ashpenaz, his chief officer, to select a certain number of youths from royal or noble families of the Israelites" 
Daniel1:4 who would be suitable for service in the king’s palace. They were to be handsome young men without defect, well-versed in every branch of wisdom. They were to be intelligent, discerning, and qualified for royal service. Ashpenaz was instructed to teach them the culture, the literature, and the language of the Babylonians." 
Daniel1:5 The king provided them a daily allowance of the best food and wine from the king’s table. For three years they were to receive a thorough education, after which they would enter the king’s service." 
Daniel1:6 Among these men of Judah were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah." 
Daniel1:7 But the chief official of the palace gave them Babylonian names: Daniel he called Belteshazzar, Hananiah he called Shadrach, Mishael he called Meshach, and Azariah he called Abednego." 
Daniel1:8 However, Daniel determined in his heart not to contaminate himself with the food and wine from the royal table, so he begged the chief official to exempt him from the royal diet." 
Daniel1:9 Then God moved on the heart of the chief official to show Daniel favor and compassion. 
Daniel1:10 But he warned Daniel, “My lord the king has ordered your meat and drink, and I fear that he will notice if your face starts looking worse than the other men your age. You could put my life in jeopardy with the king.”" 
Daniel1:11 Daniel then appealed to the overseer whom the chief officer put in charge over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Daniel said to him," 
Daniel1:12 “Test us, your servants, for ten days. Give us only seeds to eat and water to drink." 
Daniel1:13 Then afterward, compare our appearance with those of the young men who eat the king’s food. Then you can decide what to do with us.”" 
Daniel1:14 So the overseer agreed to do what they requested and tested them for ten days. 
Daniel1:15 And when the ten days were completed, they looked healthier and had even gained weight. The four Hebrew young men were in better physical condition compared to any of the others who had eaten their food from the royal table." 
Daniel1:16 So the guard replaced their diet of royal food and wine with vegetables and water. 
Daniel1:17 God imparted insight and skill in every aspect of literature and science to the four Hebrew men. Daniel also had the unique gift of interpreting every kind of supernatural vision and dream. 
Daniel1:18 At the end of the period that the king had assigned for their training, the chief of the palace servants brought them to Nebuchadnezzar’s court." 
Daniel1:19 The king interviewed them all, and among all the young men, he found none to equal Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. So, the king chose them to serve as his advisers." 
Daniel1:20 And when the king questioned them on any point of wisdom or understanding, he found them ten times superior to all the magicians and enchanters in his entire kingdom." 
Daniel1:21 And Daniel continued there in Babylon as a royal adviser until the time Cyrus became king. 
Daniel2:1 In the second year of his reign, Nebuchadnezzar had an ominous dream. It left him so disturbed that he could not sleep." 
Daniel2:2 So the king called for his magicians, enchanters, wizards, and wise men to tell him what he had dreamed. And they all came and stood before the unsettled king." 
Daniel2:3 He told them, “I’ve had a dream, and my heart is troubled. I want to know what my dream means.”" 
Daniel2:4 The wise men answered him in Aramaic: “May you live forever, O king! Tell your servants the dream you had, and we will gladly reveal its meaning for you.”" 
Daniel2:5 “My decision is final,” the king answered. “If you cannot tell me what I dreamed and what it means, I will have you torn limb from limb and turn your homes into garbage dumps." 
Daniel2:6 But if you can tell me what I dreamed and its interpretation, I will reward you with wonderful gifts and high honor in my kingdom. So now, tell me my dream and what it means.”" 
Daniel2:7 They again replied, “Let the king tell his dream to us his servants, and we will gladly reveal its meaning.”" 
Daniel2:8 But the king retorted, “I know what you’re doing; you’re just stalling for time! My decision is firm." 
Daniel2:9 If you do not interpret my dream for me, you will all receive the same punishment. You have conspired to continue deceiving me with your lies, hoping something will change. So, tell me now what I dreamed so that I can be assured that you are able to interpret it for me.”" 
Daniel2:10 The wise men answered the king, “There is no one on earth who could do what Your Majesty commands. Furthermore, no king great or small has ever requested such a thing of any magician, enchanter, or astrologer." 
Daniel2:11 Your Majesty, what you ask is difficult, and it is impossible for anyone to reveal it except the gods, and they do not live with mortals.”" 
Daniel2:12 At this the king flew into a violent rage and ordered all the wise men of Babylon to be executed. 
Daniel2:13 When the king’s decree was issued to have all the wise men killed, a search was also made for Daniel and his companions to have them put to death." 
Daniel2:14 As Arioch, captain of the royal bodyguard, set out to execute the wise men of Babylon, Daniel cautiously and tactfully approached" 
Daniel2:15 this royal official and asked him, “Why has the king issued such a harsh decree?” When Arioch explained all that had transpired," 
Daniel2:16 Daniel immediately went off to plead with the king for more time so that he could seek the interpretation of the king’s dream. 
Daniel2:17 Daniel then went home and explained everything to his friends Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah." 
Daniel2:18 He urged them to beg the God of heaven for mercy to help them unravel the mysterious secret of the king’s dream so that Daniel and his friends would not be executed with the other Babylonian wise men. 
Daniel2:19 That night, God clearly revealed to Daniel in a night vision the mystery of the dream. Then Daniel praised the God of heaven," 
Daniel2:20 saying, “May the blessed name of God be praised forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his alone." 
Daniel2:21 He alone controls the changes of times and seasons. He enthrones and dethrones kings, he imparts wisdom to the wise, and he pours out revelation-knowledge to those with understanding." 
Daniel2:22 He alone reveals deep secrets and mysteries and knows what lies in darkness, for he radiates glory-light all around him." 
Daniel2:23 You are the God worshiped by all my ancestors; I give you thanks and praise, for you have given me wisdom and power! You have revealed to us the king’s dream and unraveled to me its meaning.”" 
Daniel2:24 Then Daniel went back to see Arioch, whom the king had appointed to execute the wise men of Babylon, and said to him, “Do not kill the wise men. Take me into the king’s presence, and I will reveal the dream’s meaning to the king.”" 
Daniel2:25 Without wasting a moment, Arioch escorted Daniel to see the king. Arioch said to Nebuchadnezzar, “Your Majesty, I have found one of the Jewish exiles who can reveal the meaning of your troublesome dream.”" 
Daniel2:26 The king said to Daniel (whose Babylonian name was Belteshazzar), “ Is this true? Can you tell me what I dreamed and what it means?”" 
Daniel2:27 Daniel replied, “None of the wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers are able to unveil the mystery you have asked about," 
Daniel2:28 but there is an all-knowing God in heaven who reveals the deepest mysteries. Your Majesty, he is the one who has revealed to you what is to take place in the last days. Here is your dream, the vision that filled your mind as you lay in your bed:" 
Daniel2:29 “Your Majesty, as you were going to sleep, your thoughts turned to what would happen in the future. The Revealer of Mysteries has disclosed future events to you." 
Daniel2:30 This mystery has been revealed to me not because I am wiser than anyone else but for one divine purpose: so that you, the king, should learn what it means and that you would understand your innermost thoughts." 
Daniel2:31 “Your Majesty, you saw standing before you a huge statue of a man. It was both dazzling and terrifying to behold!" 
Daniel2:32 The head of this statue was of purest gold, its chest and arms were of gleaming silver, its belly and hips of polished bronze," 
Daniel2:33 its legs of iron, and its feet were partly iron and partly clay." 
Daniel2:34 While you were staring at this statue, a boulder broke off from a mountain but not by the instrument of human hands. The boulder struck the statue at its base and shattered its feet of iron and clay into pieces." 
Daniel2:35 Then, all at once, the entire statue collapsed into a heap of rubble. The iron and clay, bronze, silver, and gold were all pulverized as fine as chaff on the summer threshing-floor. The wind blew the shattered pieces away, leaving not a trace behind. But the boulder that hit the statue grew into a massive mountain that covered the whole earth." 
Daniel2:36 This was your dream. And now, we will explain to the king what it means." 
Daniel2:37 “Your Majesty, you are the greatest of kings. The God of heaven has bestowed upon you royal authority, power, might, and honor." 
Daniel2:38 He has handed over to you people, beasts, and birds, wherever they live, making you king of them all. You, O king, are the golden head." 
Daniel2:39 “And after you are gone, another kingdom will arise, a kingdom not as great as yours. And then a third kingdom will arise to rule the land, a kingdom of bronze." 
Daniel2:40 “And there will be a fourth kingdom, strong and hard as iron. It will shatter all things in its way. Like iron that breaks everything to pieces, it will crush and break all the other kingdoms." 
Daniel2:41 “The feet and toes you saw, partly of iron and partly of clay, represent a divided kingdom that will retain some of the iron’s strength, just as you saw the iron and the clay mixed together." 
Daniel2:42 That its feet and toes were partly iron and partly clay means that this kingdom will be both strong and fragile. 
Daniel2:43 And just as you saw the iron and the clay mingled together, so the people of this kingdom will seek to be united, but they will not bond any more than iron will permanently bond with clay." 
Daniel2:44 “In the days of those kings of iron and clay, the God of heaven will set up an eternal kingdom that will never be destroyed nor ruled by other people. It will shatter and bring all other kingdoms to an end, and it will stand forever!" 
Daniel2:45 This is the meaning of what you saw in your vision: a rock cut out of a mountain—but not by human hands—a rock that shattered the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold to pieces is his eternal kingdom. The Great God has revealed to you, the king, what will take place after this. The dream is true, and its interpretation trustworthy.”" 
Daniel2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar bowed low to the ground in awe of Daniel. Then he gave orders for incense to be burned and a sacrifice of grain to be offered in Daniel’s honor. 
Daniel2:47 The king said to Daniel, “Your god is without question the God of all gods, the Master of all kings, and the Revealer of all mysteries since he has given you the revelation of this mystery.”" 
Daniel2:48 Then the king promoted Daniel and made him great in the kingdom and gave him many wonderful gifts. He also made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon and the chief of all the wise men of Babylon. 
Daniel2:49 At Daniel’s request, the king delegated the affairs of the province of Babylon to his friends Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Daniel remained in the king’s palace." 
Daniel3:1 King Nebuchadnezzar had a golden statue made that was sixty cubits high and six cubits wide. He erected the statue on the plain of Dura in the province of Babylon. 
Daniel3:2 He then ordered an assembly of his princes, magistrates, and governors, as well as the counselors, treasurers, judges, sheriffs, and all the other provincial authorities, that they should be present at the dedication of the statue he had erected." 
Daniel3:3 So all these officials gathered in front of the golden statue that the king had made. 
Daniel3:4 Then a herald made the loud proclamation: “ Attention everyone! Listen to what the king commands of you—you of every nation and language. 
Daniel3:5 When you hear the ram’s horn, and the music of the flute, the lyre, the ten-stringed harp, the triangular harp, the drums, and all the other instruments, you will bow down to the ground and worship the golden statue that King Nebuchadnezzar has made." 
Daniel3:6 Whoever does not bow down to worship it will immediately be thrown into a white-hot fiery furnace.” 
Daniel3:7 Therefore, at the set time, as soon as they heard the musical instruments, those present from all nations and languages bowed down and worshiped the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up." 
Daniel3:8 At that point, certain Babylonian astrologers approached the king and maliciously denounced the Jews." 
Daniel3:9 They said to King Nebuchadnezzar: “O king, live forever!" 
Daniel3:10 You issued a royal decree, O king, that when everyone hears the ram’s horn and the music begins they must bow down to the ground and worship the golden image." 
Daniel3:11 And whoever does not bow down and worship it will be thrown inside a white-hot fiery furnace. 
Daniel3:12 Yet, the prominent Jews, whom you have appointed administrators of the province of Babylon, have greatly disrespected you, Your Majesty. Their names are Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They do not serve your gods nor worship the golden image you have set up.”" 
Daniel3:13 Upon hearing this, King Nebuchadnezzar flew into a furious rage and ordered Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to be brought before him. When these men came before the king," 
Daniel3:14 he asked them, “Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden statue that I erected?" 
Daniel3:15 I now give you one more chance. When you hear the ram’s horn and the music of the flute, the lyre, the ten-stringed harp, the triangular harp, the drums, and all the other instruments, you will bow down to the ground and worship the golden statue I have made. But if you refuse to worship it, you will be thrown immediately into a white-hot fiery furnace. So now, who is the god that can save you from my power?”" 
Daniel3:16 Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered King Nebuchadnezzar: “We have no need to offer you a defense in this matter." 
Daniel3:17 If the God we serve truly exists, then he will save us from death at your hand, O king. So, if you throw us into the fiery furnace, our God is able to save us." 
Daniel3:18 But even if he does not save us, you can be sure, O king, that we would not serve your gods or worship the golden statue you have erected.”" 
Daniel3:19 Upon hearing this, Nebuchadnezzar was filled with anger, and his face was distorted with rage against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He ordered his men to heat the fiery furnace seven times hotter than it usually was." 
Daniel3:20 He also commanded some of his mighty men to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and throw them into the white-hot furnace." 
Daniel3:21 Immediately, they tied up the three men while they still had on all their clothes—their trousers, shirts, and turbans—and then threw them into the white-hot furnace." 
Daniel3:22 But because the king’s command was so urgent and the furnace so overheated, the raging flames burned up the men who carried Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the fire." 
Daniel3:23 And the three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, tied and bound, fell inside the blazing, white-hot furnace." 
Daniel3:24 Suddenly King Nebuchadnezzar jumped up in amazement and asked his officials, “Didn’t we throw three men, bound in fetters, into the fire?” “That is correct, Your Majesty,” they answered him." 
Daniel3:25 “But look,” he shouted, “I see four men walking about freely in the fire. They’re all unharmed! And the fourth man has the appearance of a son of the gods!”" 
Daniel3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar cautiously approached the opening of the white-hot blazing furnace and shouted, “Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Great God, come out here now!” So out of the midst of the fire walked Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego completely unharmed." 
Daniel3:27 When all the kings’ officials had assembled, along with the princes, magistrates, and governors, they discovered that the fire had not harmed these three men. Their hair was not singed, their clothes were not scorched, and they didn’t even smell like smoke." 
Daniel3:28 King Nebuchadnezzar said, “Praise be to the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego! For he sent his divine messenger to rescue his servants who trusted in him. They disobeyed my orders and laid their lives on the line rather than serve or worship any god but their own." 
Daniel3:29 So I hereby make this decree: Any person from any nation or language who says anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego will be torn limb from limb, and his house will be destroyed, because there is no other god who is able to rescue so miraculously!”" 
Daniel3:30 Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon." 
Daniel4:1 King Nebuchadnezzar, to all peoples, nations, and language groups in the land: “I wish you perfect peace and prosperity!" 
Daniel4:2 It is my royal pleasure to inform you of the mighty signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed for me. 
Daniel4:3 “How great are his signs! How overwhelming are his wonders! His kingdom will last forever, and his dominion endures from one generation to the next.”" 
Daniel4:4 “I, Nebuchadnezzar, was content and at peace in my house—thoroughly enjoying a life of luxury in my palace." 
Daniel4:5 One night, I had a terrifying dream. While I was lying on my bed, frightening visions passed through my head, and I was tormented by what I saw." 
Daniel4:6 So I issued a decree that all the sages of Babylon must come and explain to me what my dream meant. 
Daniel4:7 Magicians, enchanters, wizards, and wise men came, and I explained my dream to them, but they were unable to interpret it for me." 
Daniel4:8 Finally, Daniel came before me. (I had renamed him Belteshazzar, after my own god.) The spirit of the holy gods resides in him. I then told Daniel my dream:" 
Daniel4:9 “Belteshazzar, chief of all my wise men, I know that the spirit of the holy gods resides in you and that there is no mystery that you cannot solve. So, listen to my dream and tell me what it means." 
Daniel4:10 “While I slept, these visions passed through my mind: I saw a huge tree in the midst of the earth." 
Daniel4:11 And the tree grew taller and stronger until its top reached into the heavens, and it could be seen from the far reaches of the land." 
Daniel4:12 Its branches and foliage were beautiful, its fruit abundant, providing enough food for all. Animals rested under its shade, and birds found shelter in its sturdy branches. All living creatures were nourished from it.”" 
Daniel4:13 “While I was still asleep, I saw another vision: I saw a watcher, a holy one, come down from heaven." 
Daniel4:14 At the top of his voice, he announced: ‘Cut down the tree, lop off its branches, strip off its leaves, and scatter its fruit. Drive away the animals from beneath its shelter and the birds from its branches." 
Daniel4:15 But leave the stump with its roots in the ground. Encircle it with chains of iron and bronze, surrounded by the grass of the field. Night after night, let him be damp with heaven’s dew. Let him live with the animals among the plants of the earth as his appointed lot. Let him eat the grass of the field." 
Daniel4:16 For seven years, let his mind be altered into the mind of a beast." 
Daniel4:17 Such is the sentence decreed by the watchers, the decision by the word of the holy ones, so that everyone living may learn that the Most High God is sovereign over the kingdoms of men. He can give them to whomever he pleases and raises up over them the lowliest of all people.’ ”" 
Daniel4:18 Then King Nebuchadnezzar concluded, “That was my dream. Now it is for you, Belteshazzar, to interpret its meaning, since not one of the wise men in my kingdom has been able to interpret it for me, but I know that you can, since the spirit of the holy gods resides in you.”" 
Daniel4:19 Upon hearing this, Daniel (known as Belteshazzar) was visibly shaken for a while and troubled in his thoughts. The king noticed this and said to him, “Belteshazzar, do not be alarmed by the dream and its meaning.” Belteshazzar answered, “My lord, if only the dream applied to those who hate you and its interpretation were for your enemies!" 
Daniel4:20 The huge tree you saw, so large and tall that it reached into the heavens and could be seen from anywhere in the land," 
Daniel4:21 the tree with beautiful branches and foliage and abundant fruit, providing food for all and shade for the wild animals, and birds with nests in its branches:" 
Daniel4:22 that tree, Your Majesty, is you! You are now so great and strong that it reaches into heaven, and your authority reaches over the entire land." 
Daniel4:23 “Now you, O king, saw a watcher—a holy messenger—come down from heaven, saying, ‘Cut the tree down and destroy it, but leave the stump and roots in the ground. Encircle it with chains of iron and bronze in the midst of the grass of the field. Let him be damp with the dew every night. Let him live with the animals among the plants of the earth as his appointed lot until seven years have passed by for him.’" 
Daniel4:24 So, the meaning of what you saw, Your Majesty, and the decree the Most High has decreed over you, my lord the king, is this:" 
Daniel4:25 “You will be driven far from human society and will make your home with the wild beasts for seven years. Like cattle, you will eat grass, and you will be damp with the dew of heaven, until you have learned that the Most High is sovereign over the kingdoms of men and can give them to whomever he pleases." 
Daniel4:26 “And the watcher’s order, ‘Leave the stump with its roots in the ground,’ means this: God will restore your kingdom to you once you come to your senses and understand that Heaven rules over all." 
Daniel4:27 “Your Majesty, please be willing to do what I say and accept my advice. Renounce your sins by doing what is right. Turn from your wickedness by showing mercy to the poor and unfortunate, and perhaps your prosperity will continue.”" 
Daniel4:28 All that was predicted happened to King Nebuchadnezzar. 
Daniel4:29 A year later, while strolling on the roof of his royal palace in Babylon," 
Daniel4:30 the king began to boast: “ Look at you! Is not this Babylon the great? By my brilliant wisdom, I built all this as my royal residence to display the glory of my majesty.”" 
Daniel4:31 The words were no sooner out of his mouth than a voice spoke from out of heaven: “Here is my verdict concerning you, King Nebuchadnezzar: I have now taken your kingdom from you!" 
Daniel4:32 You will be driven far from human society for seven years. You will make your home with the wild beasts, and you will eat grass like cattle until you have learned that I, the Most High, am sovereign over the kingdoms of men and can give them to whomever I please.”" 
Daniel4:33 It was no sooner said than done: Nebuchadnezzar was forced to live like a wild animal and was driven far from human society and ate grass as cattle do. Night after night he was damp with the dew of heaven, his hair grew remarkably long like eagle’s feathers, and his nails became like a bird’s talons." 
Daniel4:34 “When the appointed time had come, I, Nebuchadnezzar, raised my eyes to heaven, and my sanity returned to me. And I blessed the Most High, praising and glorifying him who lives forever: “His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion endures from one generation to the next." 
Daniel4:35 All who dwell on earth are regarded as nothing compared to him. He does whatever he pleases with the armies of heaven and with those who dwell on earth. No one can restrain his mighty hand or dare ask him, ‘What are you doing?’" 
Daniel4:36 At the moment I began to praise him, I was restored to my right mind. The Most High gave me back the majesty and splendor of my kingdom. My advisers and noblemen came looking for me. I was restored to my throne, and still more greatness was added to me." 
Daniel4:37 And now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise, extol, and glorify God, the King of heaven! All his works are right and true, and all his ways are right. He knows how to humble those who strut around in pride.”" 
Daniel5:1 When Belshazzar was king, he invited a thousand of his nobles to a state banquet, where the wine flowed freely among all his guests." 
Daniel5:2 While Belshazzar was drinking his wine, he gave orders to bring in the gold and silver vessels that his predecessor Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple of Jerusalem. He was wanting to drink from them along with all his guests—his nobles, his wives, and his concubines." 
Daniel5:3 So they brought in the sacred gold vessels that were seized from the house of God in Jerusalem, and the king, his nobles, his wives, and his concubines all drank from them." 
Daniel5:4 As they all drank their wine, they praised their man-made gods of gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone." 
Daniel5:5 Then all at once, a human hand appeared out of thin air, and its finger began writing on the white-washed wall of the palace, illuminated by the lampstand nearby. When the king witnessed this strange hand as it was writing," 
Daniel5:6 terror gripped him! The color drained from his face, his knees began to knock together, and he wet himself." 
Daniel5:7 The king shouted out, “Bring in the astrologers, wise men, and enchanters.” And when they came before him, he said to all the wise ones of Babylon, “I will make rich and famous anyone who can read this handwriting on the wall and tell me its interpretation. He will wear the purple robes of royalty and wear a golden collar on his neck, and I will make him the third highest ruler in my kingdom.”" 
Daniel5:8 All the king’s wise men came forward to examine the wall, but not one could read the writing or tell the king what it meant." 
Daniel5:9 King Belshazzar grew more and more terrified, his face turned ashen, and all his nobles were dumbfounded." 
Daniel5:10 When the queen mother heard the uproar among the king and his nobles, she entered the banquet hall and said, “Long live the king! Do not be so alarmed. Why are you so pale?" 
Daniel5:11 There is a mighty man in your kingdom who has the spirit of the holy gods in him. During your predecessor’s reign, he was found to have light, brilliant insight, and godlike wisdom. It was, in fact, your predecessor King Nebuchadnezzar, who made him chief of the wise men, enchanters, astrologers, and diviners." 
Daniel5:12 This man Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar, has an extraordinary spirit and is full of revelation and understanding. He possesses a rare ability to interpret dreams, unravel mysteries, and find solutions to impossible problems. So send for Daniel, and he will reveal to you what this handwriting means.”" 
Daniel5:13 Then Daniel was brought into the presence of King Belshazzar, and the king asked him, “So, you are the Daniel of the Jewish exiles my predecessor brought here from Judah?" 
Daniel5:14 I have heard so much about you. I’ve been told that you have the Spirit of God and that you possess divine illumination, brilliant insight, and extraordinary wisdom." 
Daniel5:15 Now, I have already brought in my wise men and astrologers before me, that they might read this inscription and give me its interpretation, but they were unable to show me what the words mean." 
Daniel5:16 However, I have heard that you are able to interpret dreams and that you have solutions for impossible problems. If you, then, can read the handwriting and tell me what it means, you will wear purple robes of royalty and a golden collar on your neck, and you will become the third most powerful ruler in the kingdom.”" 
Daniel5:17 Then Daniel answered the king, “You may keep your rewards or give your gifts to someone else. But I will clear up for you the mystery of this handwriting on the wall." 
Daniel5:18 As for you, O king, the Most High God gave your predecessor Nebuchadnezzar kingship, greatness, honor, and majesty." 
Daniel5:19 God made him so great that people everywhere—people from every nation, tribe, and language group—trembled with fear and dread of him. He killed or spared whomever he pleased, and he exalted or humbled whomever he wished." 
Daniel5:20 But when his heart was inflated with pride and his spirit hardened into stubbornness, God deposed him from his royal throne and stripped him of his glory." 
Daniel5:21 He was driven away from civilization, for his mind became like that of a beast. He lived with the wild donkeys and ate grass like an ox. His body was bathed with the dew of heaven until finally he acknowledged that the Most High God has dominion over the kingdoms of men and sets over them anyone he wishes." 
Daniel5:22 “Yet you, his successor Belshazzar, you have not humbled your heart even though you knew all this." 
Daniel5:23 Instead, you lifted yourself up above the sovereign Lord of the heavens. And you brought into your banquet hall the vessels of his temple so that you and your nobles, your wives, and your concubines might drink wine from them. You lifted praises to your gods of gold and silver, of bronze and iron, of wood and stone, who do not see or hear or know anything; but the God who controls your very life breath and every move you make you did not glorify." 
Daniel5:24 This is why God sent the hand that wrote the inscription upon the wall. 
Daniel5:25 “The words inscribed are: Mene***, Mene***, Teqel***, Parsin***." 
Daniel5:26 And here is what they mean: “ Mene***: God has numbered*** the days of your reign and brought it to an end. 
Daniel5:27 “ Teqel***: God has weighed*** you in the balance, and you have been found lacking." 
Daniel5:28 “ Peres***: God has divided up*** your kingdom and given it to the Medes and the Persians.” 
Daniel5:29 Immediately Belshazzar ordered Daniel to be clothed in a royal purple robe, to have a golden collar placed around his neck, and to be proclaimed the third highest ruler in the kingdom." 
Daniel5:30 That very night, the Babylonian King Belshazzar was killed." 
Daniel5:31 So Darius the Mede received the kingdom when he was sixty-two years old. 
Daniel6:1 After he became king, Darius the Mede decided to subdivide his kingdom into 120 provinces and strategically appointed a governor for each province." 
Daniel6:2 He also appointed three chief officials to watch over the work of these governors so that the king’s interests might not suffer, and Daniel was one of these three." 
Daniel6:3 Now Daniel had an extraordinary spirit and possessed exceptional qualities. He so distinguished himself among all the chief officials and the governors that Darius intended to set him over his entire kingdom. 
Daniel6:4 For that reason, the chief officials and the governors were stirred to seek some pretext against Daniel regarding his governmental affairs. But because he was trustworthy, no one could find any error or fault in him nor could they uncover any negligence or misconduct." 
Daniel6:5 Finally, his accusers said to themselves, “We will never find grounds for accusation against this Daniel unless it is related to his obedience to the law of his God.”" 
Daniel6:6 So these 122 powerful politicians consulted together as a group to entrap Daniel. And they went to speak to the king and said to him, “King Darius, live forever!" 
Daniel6:7 All the officials of your kingdom—your high officials, administrators, advisers, and governors—we are all agreed that by royal decree the following prohibition should be enforced strictly: for thirty days, no one is to pray to any god or man except to you, O king; otherwise, he must be thrown into the lions’ den." 
Daniel6:8 Now therefore, let the king issue this written, irrevocable decree that cannot be altered according to the unchanging law of the Medes and the Persians.”" 
Daniel6:9 So King Darius signed the written decree. 
Daniel6:10 Even after Daniel learned that the king had officially signed his decree, he continued his regular custom of praying at three set times a day. He went to the upper chamber of his house and opened the windows facing toward Jerusalem. Then he got down on his knees to pray, and he offered his grateful praise to God as he always had done." 
Daniel6:11 Then all those who conspired against Daniel came and spied on him. They found him praying to God and asking him for help. 
Daniel6:12 So they approached the king and reminded him of his royal decree: “ Your Majesty, did you not sign a decree forbidding everyone for thirty days to pray to any god or man except to you, O king, under penalty of being thrown into the lions’ den?” “ Yes, I did, and my decree is final,” the king answered. “It is irrevocable according to the law of the Medes and Persians.”" 
Daniel6:13 They then told the king, “ We discovered that Daniel, one of the foreign Jewish exiles, pays no heed to you, O king, and ignores the decree you have signed. For he prays to his God three times a day.”" 
Daniel6:14 When King Darius heard this, he was deeply grieved and sought to find a way he could rescue Daniel from his fate. For most of that day until sundown, he wrestled within himself over how Daniel could be spared." 
Daniel6:15 But these powerful politicians went back to see the king and insisted, “Bear in mind, Your Majesty, that according to the law of the Medes and Persians, every edict or decree of the king is irrevocable.”" 
Daniel6:16 So, the king gave orders to have Daniel brought in and cast into the lions’ den. But before they threw him into the lions’ den, the king said to Daniel, “Your God, whom you serve so faithfully, he will surely come to rescue you.”" 
Daniel6:17 A large stone was then brought and placed over the opening of the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the signet rings of each of his nobles so that Daniel’s fate might not be changed." 
Daniel6:18 Then the king returned to his palace, where he spent the night fasting; he had no supper brought to him and could not sleep a wink." 
Daniel6:19 At the first sign of dawn, the king rose from his bed and hurried off to the lions’ den." 
Daniel6:20 As he drew near the den of lions, he called out to Daniel with a trembling voice: “O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve so faithfully, been able to rescue you from the lions?”" 
Daniel6:21 Then he heard a voice; it was Daniel—he was still alive! “O king, live forever,” answered Daniel." 
Daniel6:22 “My God sent his angel, who sealed the mouths of the lions. I am unharmed and without a scratch. For I have been found innocent before my God and before you, too, O king. I have committed no wrong.”" 
Daniel6:23 The king was beside himself with joy! And he gave orders to have Daniel taken up out of the lions’ den. When the servants brought him up from the den, they could find no trace of injury on his body because he had trusted in his God." 
Daniel6:24 Then at the king’s command, those politicians who had maliciously plotted against Daniel, along with their wives and children, were arrested and flung into the lions’ den. And before they reached the bottom, the lions pounced on them and devoured them, bones and all." 
Daniel6:25 After that, King Darius wrote the following to all the people groups of his kingdom, those of every nation, tribe, and tongue throughout the land: “May peace and prosperity be greatly multiplied to you!" 
Daniel6:26 I hereby decree that throughout my royal dominion, all people everywhere will tremble in fear before the God whom Daniel worships. He is the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom will never be destroyed, and his dominion continues without end." 
Daniel6:27 He is a mighty savior and deliverer. He performs astonishing miracles in heaven and on earth, He alone has rescued Daniel from the claws of the lions.”" 
Daniel6:28 From then on, Daniel prospered greatly during the reign of Darius and during the reign of Cyrus the Persian." 
Daniel7:1 During the first year of the reign of King Belshazzar of Babylon, I, Daniel, had a dream filled with visions while I lay on my bed. So, I wrote down my dream, describing in full all that I had seen." 
Daniel7:2 Suddenly, in my night vision, I saw the four winds of the heavens burst forth upon the great sea." 
Daniel7:3 Then emerging from the tossing sea came four immense beasts, each different from the others." 
Daniel7:4 The first one was like a winged lion, with wings like an eagle. As I watched, its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the earth, standing on two feet like a person, and it was given a human heart." 
Daniel7:5 Then the second beast I saw resembled a bear. It was half crouching and had three ribs clenched between its fangs. It was told, “Stand up and devour more flesh.”" 
Daniel7:6 After that, as I looked on, behold, there was another one that looked like a tiger. On its back were four large wings of a bird. This beast had four heads, and it was given authority for dominion." 
Daniel7:7 Then in my night vision, behold, I saw a fourth beast! It was dreadful, terrifying, and incredibly powerful. It had huge iron teeth used for crushing and devouring its victims. With its massive feet it trampled on what was left. It had ten horns and was totally different from the other beasts." 
Daniel7:8 As I was wondering about the horns, suddenly, another little horn sprouted up among them and tore out by the roots three of the previous horns to make room for it. On this little horn there were eyes like that of a man and a mouth boasting arrogantly." 
Daniel7:9 As I looked on, I observed a heavenly courtroom. Various thrones were being arranged until the Ancient of Days took his seat. His clothing was as white as snow, and his hair was white like perfectly clean wool. His throne was a tempest of fiery flames, set upon wheels of blazing fire." 
Daniel7:10 A surging stream of fire flowed from before him. Immeasurable numbers of people were serving him, and countless myriads were attending him. The court convened for judgment, and the books were opened." 
Daniel7:11 As I kept on looking, I heard boastful words being spoken by the little horn. As I watched, the verdict was issued. The fourth beast was killed, and its body was thrown into the blazing fire." 
Daniel7:12 As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion had been taken away, but they were allowed to continue living for an appointed time." 
Daniel7:13 Then, as I was looking on in my night visions, suddenly I saw one like a son of man coming in the midst of the clouds of heaven. He was ushered into the presence of the Ancient of Days and presented before him." 
Daniel7:14 Then the Ancient of Days conferred upon him dominion, glory, and kingship. People of every nation and language group worshiped him. His dominion is everlasting and will never pass away, and his kingdom will never be destroyed." 
Daniel7:15 As for me, Daniel, I was terrified by these night visions, and my spirit was deeply disturbed by all that I saw." 
Daniel7:16 I went up to one who was standing there and asked him to explain the true meaning of what I had witnessed. So he gave me the interpretation: 
Daniel7:17 “These four great beasts represent four empires that will rise to power over the earth. 
Daniel7:18 But after them, the holy ones, the most high ones, will receive the kingdom and possess it forever. Yes, forever and ever!”" 
Daniel7:19 But I was curious to know more about the fourth beast. It was much different from all the others—the terrifying, dreadful beast. It crushed its victims with claws of bronze and with teeth of iron and then trampled on them." 
Daniel7:20 Also, I wanted to know more about the ten horns on its head and the more prominent horn that sprouted up and uprooted three of the previous horns. I wanted to gain insight about this conspicuous little horn, more imposing than the others, with eyes in it and a mouth speaking arrogantly." 
Daniel7:21 As I watched, that horn fought against the holy ones and was defeating them" 
Daniel7:22 until the Everlasting One came on the scene. He handed judgment over to the saints of the Most High, and dominion was given to the holy ones of the Most High. Then the time came when the holy ones took possession of the kingdom." 
Daniel7:23 He gave me the interpretation: “The fourth beast means that there will be a fourth kingdom on the earth, different from all the other kingdoms. It will devour the whole earth, trample it down, and shatter it to pieces." 
Daniel7:24 And the ten horns are ten kings that will arise from that fourth kingdom, and they will succeed each other. But after them, an eleventh king will rise to power. He will be different from the previous ones and will subdue three of those kings." 
Daniel7:25 He will speak blasphemous words against the Most High and try to wear down the holy ones of the Most High. He will try to alter the set periods of time and change God’s decree, and the saints will be subjected to his power for a time, times, and half a time." 
Daniel7:26 But when the heavenly court convenes, his ruling power will be stripped from him. His authority will be abolished and destroyed forever." 
Daniel7:27 Then the Most High will give to his holy ones the kingdom and the dominion and the grandeur of all the kingdoms on earth. All rulers and authorities will serve and obey him, for his kingdom is everlasting.”" 
Daniel7:28 That is all that I saw in my dream. I, Daniel, was so greatly terrified by my thoughts that my face turned pale, but I hid the vision in my heart." 
Daniel8:1 In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar, I, Daniel, saw a second supernatural vision." 
Daniel8:2 In my vision I suddenly found myself in the fortress city of Susa, the capital of the province of Elam, standing beside the Ulai canal." 
Daniel8:3 As I looked about, behold, I saw a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two long horns, one behind the other, but the one behind was longer." 
Daniel8:4 I watched as the ram charged toward the west, then the north, and then the south. With each conquest, it became even more powerful. No beast could withstand it or be rescued from its power; it did whatever it pleased." 
Daniel8:5 As I considered what it all meant, I saw a male goat come rushing from the west, racing across the whole earth without touching the ground. He had a single prominent horn on his forehead." 
Daniel8:6 The goat came up to the two-horned ram that I saw standing beside the canal and rushed at it with savage force. 
Daniel8:7 Then I saw him reach the ram and attack it with furious blows. He smashed it so hard that it broke off its two horns, for the ram had no power to withstand it. The goat knocked the ram to the ground and trampled it down. And there was no one to rescue the ram from his power." 
Daniel8:8 Then the goat grew exceedingly arrogant. At the very peak of his power, his big horn abruptly snapped off. In its place, four prominent horns came up, each pointing to a different direction." 
Daniel8:9 From one of them, a small horn emerged. It eventually grew to be very big, and its power extended toward the south, the east, and toward the beautiful land." 
Daniel8:10 It grew so powerful that it attacked the armies of heaven and hurled some of the starry host to the ground and trampled them down. 
Daniel8:11 The horn arrogantly exalted itself against the Prince of the heavenly armies. It abolished the daily sacrifices, and the place of his sanctuary was defiled." 
Daniel8:12 God’s people began to turn away from him and gave themselves to the power of the horn. Sin replaced the daily sacrifices on account of the rebellion of the people. The horn was successful in all it attempted to do; truth was cast down to the ground. 
Daniel8:13 Then I heard a holy one speaking. Another holy one asked the first one, the Wonderful Numberer, “How long will it be until this vision is fulfilled, in relation to the daily sacrifice, the rebellion that causes desolation, the handing over of the sanctuary, and the trampling underfoot of the host of God’s people?”" 
Daniel8:14 He answered, “For 2,300 evenings and mornings; then the sanctuary will be purified.”" 
Daniel8:15 While I, Daniel, was pondering the vision I had seen, suddenly there appeared before me one who looked like a man." 
Daniel8:16 Then I heard the voice of someone calling out over the waters of the Ulai canal, “Gabriel, help this man understand the meaning of his vision.”" 
Daniel8:17 As the angel Gabriel came closer to where I was standing, I was so terrified that I fell facedown on the ground. Then he said to me, “ Daniel, son of man, you need to understand that your vision refers to the time of the end.”" 
Daniel8:18 When he spoke with me, I lost consciousness and passed out. But he took hold of me and raised me to my feet." 
Daniel8:19 “Listen,” he said, “and I will tell you what will take place in the time of wrath, for the vision pertains to the appointed time of the end:" 
Daniel8:20 “The ram that you saw with two long horns represents the kingdoms of the Medes and the Persians. 
Daniel8:21 “The male goat represents the kingdoms of Greece, and the big horn on its forehead is the first king of the Greek Empire." 
Daniel8:22 “As for the horn that was broken off and replaced by four prominent horns, this signifies that four other kingdoms will rise from its midst, but their combined power will not be as great as the first." 
Daniel8:23 “When their reign comes to an end and their crimes have reached their full measure, there will arise a stern king, skilled in stubbornness and trickery." 
Daniel8:24 He will grow in might but not through any power of his own. He will cause amazing devastation, succeed in every undertaking, and destroy mighty ones, the saints of the Most High." 
Daniel8:25 By his cunning, he will make treachery succeed under his rule. In his own mind, he will highly exaggerate his own importance. When they are at ease, he will suddenly destroy many. But when he rises up against the Prince of all princes, he will be broken—but not by any human power." 
Daniel8:26 “The explanation of the vision you had about the evening and morning sacrifices is absolutely true. And seal up the vision, for it concerns the distant future.”" 
Daniel8:27 I, Daniel, was dazed and lay sick for several days; then I got up and went back to serve the king. I was perplexed by the vision, for it seemed beyond understanding." 
Daniel9:1 These things happened during the first year Darius son of Xerxes was king over Babylon. He was a descendant of the Medes. 
Daniel9:2 During his first year of rule, I, Daniel, was studying the Scriptures and noticed that according to the word Yahweh had revealed to the prophet Jeremiah, seventy years must pass while Jerusalem lay in ruins." 
Daniel9:2 During his first year of rule, I, Daniel, was studying the Scriptures and noticed that according to the word Yahweh had revealed to the prophet Jeremiah, seventy years must pass while Jerusalem lay in ruins." 
Daniel9:3 Then I turned my heart to the Lord God, seeking an answer from him, pleading for mercy with fasting, wearing sackcloth, and sitting among ashes." 
Daniel9:4 I prayed to Yahweh, my God, and made this confession: “My Lord, you are the great and awesome God who faithfully keeps your covenant of love with those who love you and keep your commands." 
Daniel9:5 Yet we have sinned, acted wickedly, and done evil; we have rebelled and turned aside from your laws and commands." 
Daniel9:6 We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who prophesied in your name to our kings, our leaders, our fathers, and all the people of the land." 
Daniel9:7 Righteousness belongs to you, Lord, but we are all covered with shame even to this day—the people of Judah, the residents of Jerusalem, and all Israel, near and far. You have scattered us to many lands because of our treachery against you." 
Daniel9:8 Yes, Yahweh, we are all clothed with shame—our kings, our princes, and our fathers, because we have sinned against you." 
Daniel9:9 In spite of all that, Lord, our God, you are filled with compassion and overflow with forgiveness, even though we have openly rebelled against you." 
Daniel9:10 “ Yahweh, we have not listened to your voice, our God, nor kept your instructions that you gave us through your servants the prophets." 
Daniel9:11 All the people of Israel have ignored your voice; we have defied your instructions and gone astray. Now, the solemn curses confirmed by your promises of punishment in the law of your servant Moses have been poured out upon us because we sinned against you." 
Daniel9:12 You have fulfilled the words that you spoke against us and against the rulers over us by bringing upon us such a great calamity. Your severe punishment of Jerusalem has never been equaled under all heaven! 
Daniel9:13 As the law of Moses warns, this calamity came upon us in full measure. And even now, Yahweh, we have not sought to please you, our God, by turning away from our wickedness and following your ways of truth." 
Daniel9:14 Yahweh, you have waited for the right moment to unleash this calamity upon us. Yahweh, our God, you are just and right in all that you have done, for we defiantly ignored your voice." 
Daniel9:15 “And now, Lord our God, you delivered your people out of the land of Egypt with mighty power. You have won fame and gained renown for yourself even to this day. But we acknowledge our sin and wicked ways." 
Daniel9:16 Lord, you have always demonstrated your faithfulness to Israel, so now please turn your fierce anger away from Jerusalem. It belongs to you and sits on the hill where sacrifice is made. All the other nations who live around us despise your city and your people because of the sins of our ancestors and because of our sins also." 
Daniel9:17 And now, our God, I am your servant and I beg you, please—answer my prayers. Make your face to shine upon your ruined temple so that everyone will know that you are Lord." 
Daniel9:18 Turn your heart to hear my prayer, O my God. Listen to my cry and please look carefully and see our despair and the devastated city, which bears your name. We bring our requests to you and ask for your mercy, not because we deserve it but because of your extravagant, infinite love." 
Daniel9:19 Lord, hear us and forgive us. Lord, please be attentive and act for us! Do not delay in answering us for your own sake, my God, and for your city and your people who bear your name.”" 
Daniel9:20 While I was absorbed in prayer, confessing my sins and the sins of my people Israel and presenting my request before Yahweh, my God, on behalf of Jerusalem, his holy hill—" 
Daniel9:21 Gabriel, whom I had seen in a vision previously, came flying down from heaven. He touched me at the time of the evening sacrifice." 
Daniel9:22 He gave me understanding and said to me, “Daniel, I have come from heaven to impart insight and understanding concerning this prophecy." 
Daniel9:23 As soon as you began to pray, God gave you an answer, for you are a precious treasure to God! Now, carefully consider the message and understand the revelation of the vision." 
Daniel9:24 “God has decreed for your people and for the holy city a period of seventy times seven for these reasons: to finish transgression, to put an end to sin, to cancel guilt, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to confirm the prophetic vision, and to anoint the Most Holy One." 
Daniel9:25 “ You must know and understand this: From the issuing of God’s decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the Anointed Ruler comes, there will be seven ‘sevens,’ and sixty-two ‘sevens.’ Jerusalem will be rebuilt with broad streets and a trench, but during times of great distress." 
Daniel9:26 “After those sixty-two weeks, the Anointed One will be cut off and left with nothing. The people of the commander will destroy both the city and the sanctuary. Then its end will come like an overwhelming flood, and until those sixty-two weeks end, there will be war. The decree of desolation has been issued!" 
Daniel9:27 “For one week he will confirm a covenant with many people, but in the middle of that week, he will abolish sacrifices and offerings. “On the wing of the temple, an appalling abomination will be erected. And the abomination will remain there until God does away with the one who placed it there, just as God has determined.”" 
Daniel10:1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, I, Daniel, known as Belteshazzar, received a profound word—a true revelation, but I struggled to understand it. Finally, its interpretation was disclosed to me in a vision, and I began to understand the word." 
Daniel10:2 At that time, I was in a period of mourning for three weeks." 
Daniel10:3 During the entire three weeks, I ate no delicacies —no meat and no sweets. I drank no wine, nor did I groom myself." 
Daniel10:4 On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, I had a vision while I was standing on the bank of the great Tigris River." 
Daniel10:5 I opened my eyes to look about me, and I saw a man approaching who was robed in white linen and wearing a belt of pure gold." 
Daniel10:6 His body was like a glowing gemstone, his face shining as bright as lightning. His eyes were blazing like fiery torches; his arms and legs were gleaming like polished bronze; and the sound of his voice was thunderous, like the roar of a multitude." 
Daniel10:7 Although others were present, I was the only one who experienced this open vision. Yet, it was so real that it terrified those who were with me, and they ran away to hide." 
Daniel10:8 I found myself alone, gazing on this astounding vision; I was left stunned and powerless. My appearance was altered beyond recognition, and what little strength I had deserted me." 
Daniel10:9 As soon as the angel began to speak to me, I fell unconscious with my face to the ground, as in a coma." 
Daniel10:10 Then I felt a powerful hand grip me and help me to my hands and knees. I was trembling with fear! 
Daniel10:11 He said, “Daniel, you are greatly loved and a precious treasure to God. Now, stand up and understand the words that I am about to say, for God has sent me to you.” So, I rose to my feet, still shaking like a leaf." 
Daniel10:12 He reassured me by saying, “Daniel, don’t be afraid, for I have come to bring to you the answer to your prayer. From the first day you sought to understand the revelation and humbled yourself before God, your words were heard in heaven." 
Daniel10:13 However, for the past twenty-one days, the principality over the kingdom of Persia stood to oppose and resist me. Then Michael, one of the chief princes of heaven, came to my assistance. I was left there, confronting the king of Persia." 
Daniel10:14 Now I have come to help you comprehend what will happen to your people in the final days, for the vision pertains to a time still to come.”" 
Daniel10:15 Upon hearing these words, I bowed facedown and was left speechless." 
Daniel10:16 Then suddenly, one who looked like a man touched my lips, and I was finally able to speak. So, I said to the one standing in front of me, “My lord, this vision has left me overcome, undone, and overwhelmed. I feel totally weak and helpless." 
Daniel10:17 My lord, how can I, your servant, even talk to you? I have no strength, and I can barely catch my breath!”" 
Daniel10:18 Once again, the one who looked like a man gripped me and imparted strength to me." 
Daniel10:19 He said to me, “Be strong! Be very, very strong! Do not be afraid, for you are greatly loved and a precious treasure to God. God’s peace is yours.” As he spoke those words, I felt strength pour into me, and I said, “Now, I’m ready to listen to you, my lord, for you have given me strength.”" 
Daniel10:20 He then said, “Don’t you know why I have come to you?" 
Daniel10:21 I will unveil to you what is written in the Book of Truth: but first, I want you to know that there is none who fights alongside me against these forces of darkness except Michael, your people’s prince. 11:1 In the first year that Darius the Mede was king, I stood up to support Michael and fought with him against the prince of Persia. 10:20b Now, I am about to go back and fight the principality with him. Once we have defeated him, the principality over Greece will come next.”" 
Daniel11:2 “I will now reveal the truth to you: Three more kings will rise to power in Persia; a fourth will come who will be much richer than all the others. His great wealth will cause his power to grow until his empire wages war against all the kingdoms of Greece. 
Daniel11:3 Then a warrior-king will arise who will govern a vast empire and do whatever he pleases. 
Daniel11:4 But at the zenith of his power, his empire will be shattered and scattered to the four winds of heaven, though not to his descendants. It will not be as powerful as when he ruled it, for his dominion will be uprooted and will be passed on to others who are not his descendants.”" 
Daniel11:5 “The king of Egypt will grow powerful, but one of his commanders will rise to become even more powerful and rule a kingdom greater than his." 
Daniel11:6 Then, after some years have passed, an alliance will form. And in order to ensure the peace, the daughter of the king of Egypt will marry the king of Syria. However, her grip on power will not last for long, and the king, too, will lose his throne. In those days, she, her husband, her child, and those who escorted her to Syria will all be killed. Yet later," 
Daniel11:7 one of her family members will rise to become the king of Egypt. He will come against the defenses of the walled city of the king of Syria and defeat the Syrian armies. 
Daniel11:8 He will plunder their wealth and take it back to Egypt as spoils —all their precious gold, silver vessels, idols, and statues. For some time, he will leave the kingdom of Syria in peace." 
Daniel11:9 Eventually, the king of Syria will invade the kingdom of Egypt, but he will have to retreat to his own country." 
Daniel11:10 The king’s sons will prepare for war, assembling a powerful group of warriors. One of his sons will swiftly advance, sweeping over the land like a powerful flood. Their armies will press forward and fight all the way to the strong, walled fortress of the king of Egypt." 
Daniel11:11 “Then the king of Egypt will fly into a rage and set out to launch an offensive against the king of Syria, who will have an immense army on his side. However, the king of Egypt will conquer the Syrian forces." 
Daniel11:12 The king of Egypt will be filled with pride over his victory and of the many tens of thousands of soldiers he slaughtered, but he will not continue to be victorious." 
Daniel11:13 “Then the king of Syria will recruit an even larger army than before, and after some years, he will advance a second time with a massive army, fully equipped with weapons and supplies." 
Daniel11:14 “At that time, many will take up arms against the king of Egypt. Renegades from among your own people will rebel in the hope of realizing the vision; but they will fail." 
Daniel11:15 Then the king of Syria will advance and build up siege-ramps to capture a strongly fortified city. The Egyptian forces will not stand their ground; even their elite troops will not be strong enough to resist. 
Daniel11:16 The invading king of Syria will do as he pleases, and no one will be able to resist him. He will occupy the land of splendor, and all of it will be under his control." 
Daniel11:17 “Then, with the might of his entire kingdom, he will resolve to conquer Egypt by cunningly making a peace treaty with the king of Egypt. The king of Syria will offer one of his daughters in marriage to the king of Egypt in order to defeat his kingdom, but his plan will fall apart and will not work to his advantage." 
Daniel11:18 The king of Syria will next turn to the coastlands and capture many cities, but a foreign commander will put a stop to his arrogance and make him suffer the consequences of his defiant insolence." 
Daniel11:19 “He will then retreat to the well protected fortresses of his own country. In time, he will be defeated, lose his grip on power, and disappear." 
Daniel11:20 His successor will send out a tax collector to maintain the wealth of his kingdom. In a short time, however, the king will die, though not in the heat of battle.”" 
Daniel11:21 The man in white linen continued: “In his place will rise a despised usurper of the throne, who had no claim to royal status. He will attack the kingdom when the people least suspect it, and he will seize the kingdom through deceit." 
Daniel11:22 He will totally sweep away every opposing army that stands before him and crush them. He will even kill the high priest of the covenant. 
Daniel11:23 And after he forms an alliance with him, he will act deceitfully and, despite his initial small following, he will grow ever stronger." 
Daniel11:24 Then unexpectedly, he will, by stealth, invade rich, fertile provinces and achieve what none of his ancestors did. And he will distribute the spoils and lavish them upon his followers. He will plot to defeat opposing forces protected in fortified positions and will succeed, but only for a short time." 
Daniel11:25 “He will stir up his might and courage, muster a large army, and wage war against the king of Egypt. However, the king of Egypt will fight back with an even greater army—a massive and powerful army—but he will be defeated because of secret plans devised against him." 
Daniel11:26 His closest advisers, who eat at the king’s table, will attempt to kill him. His army will be swept away, and many will fall in the slaughter." 
Daniel11:27 “These two kings will sit at the same table and exchange lies with their hearts filled with evil motives. But their plans will come to nothing, for the time set by God has still not yet come." 
Daniel11:28 Then the treacherous king of Syria will start back home with his great spoils. He will set his heart against the holy covenant, take action against it, and then return to his own land." 
Daniel11:29 In the time God has appointed, he will go back to attack Egypt again, but this time the outcome will not be as before." 
Daniel11:30 Roman ships will oppose him, and he will lose heart. He will retreat and take out his indignation against the holy covenant and show favor to those who forsake that holy covenant." 
Daniel11:31 “He will then dispatch his armed forces to enter and profane the sacred temple-stronghold. They will abolish the daily sacrifice and, in its place, set the blasphemous abomination that brings desolation." 
Daniel11:32 The Syrian king will entice with flattery those who betray the holy covenant, but those who know their God will stand firm and valiantly resist." 
Daniel11:33 “These who are filled with wisdom will help many understand what is happening. However, for a season, they will face severe testing. Some will go into captivity, some will be robbed, and some will be killed by the sword and by the flames." 
Daniel11:34 During this persecution, God’s people will receive little help, though many will join with them insincerely." 
Daniel11:35 Even some of the wise leaders will stumble, yet this will lead to them being purged, purified, and made clean—until the time of the end, for the appointed time is still to come.”" 
Daniel11:36 “The king will grow more and more arrogant and do whatever he pleases. He will exalt himself above every other god, and utter horrendous blasphemies against the God of all gods. He will be successful until God’s wrath reaches the boiling point, for what God has decreed will certainly be fulfilled." 
Daniel11:37 The king will not respect the gods of his ancestors, the god worshiped by women, nor any other god because he will consider himself the greatest god of all." 
Daniel11:38 Instead, he will glorify the god of strongholds. He will honor this god, unknown to his ancestors, with gold and silver, precious stones and costly gifts." 
Daniel11:39 That king, with the help of his foreign god, will defend his own fortresses. He will give great honor to those who accept him as ruler, and elevate them as high officials and parcel out the land to them as their reward for their loyalty.”" 
Daniel11:40 “At the time of the end, the king of Egypt will lock horns with the king of Syria, but the king of Syria will come storming out against him like a whirlwind—with chariots, cavalry, and a great fleet of ships. He will pass through countries, overrun them, and sweep through them like a flood." 
Daniel11:41 He will even invade the glorious land, and many countries will fall, but Edom, Moab, and what remains of the Ammonites will escape." 
Daniel11:42 “He will use his power to attack many countries, and Egypt will not escape his onslaught." 
Daniel11:43 He will confiscate all the Egyptian treasures, including its silver and gold. Libyans and Ethiopians will be in submission to him." 
Daniel11:44 “Then reports will come from the east and the north that will trouble him, and he will set out with furious rage to bring death and complete destruction to many." 
Daniel11:45 He will pitch his lavish royal tents between the sea and the beautiful mountain of the holy temple. Yet he will come to his end all alone, with no one to stand with him.”" 
Daniel12:1 “At that time, the great angel-prince, Michael, protector of your people, will take his stand. It will be a time of great distress, the worst trouble your nation has ever known. When that time comes, your own people will be spared—all those whose names are found written in the Book of Life." 
Daniel12:2 “Multitudes of those who are sleeping in the Land of Dust will awaken, some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting disgrace." 
Daniel12:3 Those who are wise will shine radiantly as the sky at midday. And those who turn many to the way of righteousness will shine brightly as stars for all eternity. 
Daniel12:4 “And you, Daniel, must guard these words and keep the scroll sealed until the time of the end. Many will go here and there, and knowledge will continue to increase.”" 
Daniel12:5 I, Daniel, then looked and saw two others standing, one on each bank of the river." 
Daniel12:6 One of them said to the man dressed in linen who was hovering above the river, “How long until these wonders take place?”" 
Daniel12:7 I heard the man answer who was dressed in linen, hovering above the river. He raised his hands to heaven and swore by him who lives forever, “A time, and two times, and half a time. All this persecution will not end until the opposition of God’s holy people is completely crushed.”" 
Daniel12:8 I heard his answer, but it was like a riddle to me. So, I asked him, “Sir, how will all of this transpire?”" 
Daniel12:9 “You may go in peace, Daniel,” he replied. “The understanding of this message is to remain secret and sealed until the time of the end." 
Daniel12:10 God will purify many people and make them clean and spotless, while the wicked will continue doing what is wicked. This revelation will remain a riddle to the wicked, but those who are wise will have profound understanding." 
Daniel12:11 “Between the end of the continual burnt offering and the abomination that brings destruction will be 1,290 days." 
Daniel12:12 “Blessed are those who wait and faithfully endure to the end of the 1,335 days." 
Daniel12:13 As for you, be at peace and rest; and you will rise for your reward at the end of the age.”" 
Hosea1:1 Here is Yahweh ’s message that came through the prophet Hosea son of Beeri. At that time, Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah ruled as kings of Judah, and Jeroboam the son of Joash was king in Israel." 
Hosea1:2 This is the beginning of what Yahweh spoke through Hosea. Yahweh said to me, “Go and marry an adulterous woman and have children of adultery because the people of the land are adulterers. They have forsaken me.”" 
Hosea1:3 So I married a woman named Gomer, Diblaim’s daughter. She became pregnant and bore a son." 
Hosea1:4 Yahweh said to me, “Name him Jezreel because it will not be long before I punish the dynasty of Jehu for the massacre at Jezreel and then destroy the kingdom of Israel." 
Hosea1:5 At that time, I will smash Israel’s military power in the Valley of Jezreel.”" 
Hosea1:6 Later, Gomer became pregnant again and gave birth to a daughter. Yahweh said to me: “Name her No-Tender-Mercy because I will no longer have tender mercy on the nation of Israel. I will certainly not forgive them." 
Hosea1:7 I will, however, have compassion on the nation of Judah. “I will rescue them! I will not give them victory through their weapons and military might. It will not be their horsemen and chariots that deliver them. I, Yahweh their God, will save them!”" 
Hosea1:8 After Gomer weaned her daughter, No-Tender-Mercy, she became pregnant again and gave birth to a son." 
Hosea1:9 Then Yahweh said to me, “Name him Not-My-People because you, Israel, are not mine anymore, and I am not yours.”" 
Hosea1:10 Yet someday, the number of the people of Israel will become as innumerable as the sand of the sea, which cannot be counted. Although God named them Not-My-People, he will restore them and call them Children of the Living God." 
Hosea1:11 The divided people of Judah and Israel will reunite. They will appoint themselves one head and will once again cover the land like grass that sprouts from the ground. How great will be the day when the meaning of Jezreel’s name is fulfilled: God sows! 
Hosea2:1 “Call your brothers My-People and your sisters Shown-Tender-Mercy. 
Hosea2:2 Go to court. Take legal action against your mother and put her on trial. For she is no longer my wife, and I am no longer her husband. She must remove the symbols of prostitution from her face and the seductive charms of her adulteries from between her breasts." 
Hosea2:3 If not, I will strip her naked and humiliate her and expose her nakedness as on the day she was born. I will make her as bare as the desert, turn her into a barren land, and let her die of thirst." 
Hosea2:4 I will feel no pity for her children, since they are the children of her shameless prostitution." 
Hosea2:5 Yes, their mother has prostituted herself, the one who conceived them has disgraced herself. For she said, ‘I will chase after my lovers; they will provide all I need: my robe, my clothing, my oil, and my wine.’" 
Hosea2:6 Behold! I will block her way with thorns and build up a wall against her to stop her in her tracks. 
Hosea2:7 Then when she tries to chase her lovers, she will not be able to catch them. When she looks for them, she will not find them. Eventually, she’ll say, ‘I must go back to my own husband. I was much better off then than I am now!’" 
Hosea2:8 Yet, she never understood that I was the one who was giving her the grain, sweet wine, and olive oil. I lavished upon her an abundance of silver and gold, which she took and made into idols of Baal." 
Hosea2:9 So I will take back my grain at harvest time and my new wine when the grapes are ripe. I will snatch away my wool and my flax used for clothing to cover her naked body. 
Hosea2:10 Then very soon I will publicly expose her disgrace before her lovers’ gawking eyes — so that no man will steal her from me. 
Hosea2:11 I will put an end to all her joyful festivities, her feasts, her new moons and her Sabbaths, and her celebrations will all cease." 
Hosea2:12 I will ruin her vines and fig trees of which she used to say, ‘These are the fees that my lovers pay to me.’ I will turn vines and fig trees into a jungle and make their fruit nothing but food for wild beasts." 
Hosea2:13 I will make her pay for the feast days, feasts for her to burn incense to the Baals. She got all dressed up and chased after her lovers, adorned with earrings and necklaces for them. And me? She has forgotten about me. This is Yahweh speaking to you!”" 
Hosea2:14 “Behold, I am going to romance her and draw her into the wilderness; I will speak tenderly to her there with words of love and win her heart back to me." 
Hosea2:15 There I will give her back her vineyards, and make the Valley of Trouble an open door to hope. There she will respond to me and sing as when she was young, as on the day when she came up from Egypt." 
Hosea2:16 “And I, Yahweh, declare that when that day comes, you will call me ‘My Husband’ and no longer call me ‘My Master.’" 
Hosea2:17 I will banish the names of the Baals from her lips, and she will never mention their names again." 
Hosea2:18 When that day comes, I will make a covenant for you, my people, with all the birds and wild animals and creatures that creep upon the ground. I will break the bow and the sword and remove the weapons of war from the land, and I will let you live in peace and safety." 
Hosea2:19 I will take you to myself as my wife forever. I will make you mine in righteousness and justice, with unfailing love and tender affection." 
Hosea2:20 Yes, I will commit myself to you in faithfulness. Then you will know me intimately as Yahweh." 
Hosea2:21 When that day comes, I will be the God who responds,” declares Yahweh. “I will respond to the heavens, and the heavens will respond to the earth," 
Hosea2:22 and the earth will respond to the grain, the wine, and the olive oil, and they will respond to Israel." 
Hosea2:23 I will sow her in the land as my very own. I will show my tender mercy to No-Tender-Mercy. I will declare to Not-My-People my words of endearment: ‘You are my people,’ and they will say to me, ‘You are my One-and-Only God.’ ”" 
Hosea3:1 Yahweh said to me, “Go again to her. Love her and demonstrate love to your wife again even though she has another lover. Love the adulteress with the same love that I, Yahweh, have for the adulterous Israelites who turn to other gods and love to give offerings to their idols.”" 
Hosea3:2 So I negotiated to buy her for the bride-price of fifteen shekels of silver and nine bushels of barley. 
Hosea3:3 And I said to her, “ Your sinful life is now over, and you must stay with me in my home for many days. You will no longer commit adultery by giving yourself to another man, and I will remain faithful to you in the same way.”" 
Hosea3:4 For the Israelites will have to spend many days deprived of political leaders, outward forms of religion, and the means of foretelling the future." 
Hosea3:5 But afterward, the Israelites will return and again long for Yahweh their covenant God and for a David-like king. They will turn trembling in awe to Yahweh and rediscover his goodness and gifts in the future." 
Hosea4:1 Israelites, hear the words of Yahweh, for he has charges to bring against the citizens of the country! “There is no faithfulness in the land, no tenderness and love— no knowledge and understanding of God." 
Hosea4:2 Your crimes are these: cursing others, lying, breaking your promises, murdering, stealing, and committing adultery. You have no moral decency, and bloodshed is the order of the day." 
Hosea4:3 This is why the land withers away, and all who live in it waste away— the wild animals, the birds, even the fish disappear.”" 
Hosea4:4 “But let no one accuse or blame others, for my contention is with you, the priests." 
Hosea4:5 So, you priests will stumble on the road to ruin in broad daylight, and the prophet will stumble with you in the dark. I will destroy Israel, who gave you birth." 
Hosea4:6 My people are destroyed because they do not know who I am. Since you have refused to let them know who I am, I will refuse you as my priests. Since you have ignored the teaching of your God, I will ignore your children.”" 
Hosea4:7 “The more you priests increase in number, the more of your sins against me I have counted. You have exchanged me, your glorious God, for something shameful." 
Hosea4:8 The priests lead my people into sin so they can eat more of their sin offerings. They want the people to sin more and more. 
Hosea4:9 The people get the priests they deserve! I will punish them both for their conduct; their evil deeds will cling to them. 
Hosea4:10 They will eat but never be satisfied; they will have sex but will remain infertile since they are unfaithful to me, Yahweh, and are devoted to other gods instead." 
Hosea4:11 Here is what robs their ability to understand: giving themselves to prostitution and to old and new wine.” 
Hosea4:12 “My people seek revelation from a block of wood and ask a stick what they should do. They have left me and are led astray by their spiritual adultery. They have deserted their God 
Hosea4:13 to offer sacrifice on the mountains. They burn incense on the hills, under oaks, and every tall sacred tree, worshiping false gods in their pleasant shade. This is why your daughters became cultic prostitutes and your daughters-in-law commit adultery." 
Hosea4:14 I will not punish your daughters for their prostitution nor your daughters-in-law for their adultery because it is you men who are wandering off with whores and offering sacrifice with cultic prostitutes. So the saying is true: ‘A people without understanding will come to ruin.’ ” 
Hosea4:15 “Although you, Israel, are unfaithful to me, there is no need for Judah to sin by following your example. Do not go for worship at Gilgal or go up to the wicked Bethel. Do not swear oaths any longer, saying, ‘As surely as Yahweh lives,’" 
Hosea4:16 for Israel is as stubborn as a mule. So do they really think that I, Yahweh, am going to pasture them like an obedient lamb in a broad meadow?" 
Hosea4:17 Ephraim is under the spell of idols—leave him alone! 
Hosea4:18 Their drunken orgy over, the people delight in their prostitution, preferring shame to honor." 
Hosea4:19 They will be swept away on the wings of the wind, and their pagan sacrifices will bring them nothing but disgrace.”" 
Hosea5:1 “Hear this, you priests! Pay attention, you leaders of Israel! Listen, all of you among the royal household! You are responsible for administering justice, but you have led the people into idolatry by setting a trap at Mizpah and spreading a net over Mount Tabor." 
Hosea5:2 You have dug a deep ditch of sexual immorality, and so, I will punish you all." 
Hosea5:3 “Israel, you cannot hide from me; for I know Ephraim through and through. Yet you have been unfaithful to me. Israel’s worship of me is grossly defiled." 
Hosea5:4 They no longer even know me, Yahweh. Their evil deeds block the way for them to return to me, their God, because they are possessed by a spirit of prostitution." 
Hosea5:5 Israel’s own arrogance speaks for itself. Israel and Ephraim have no one else to blame, for their own guilt makes them stumble. Judah will be dragged down with them." 
Hosea5:6 No matter how many animals they bring to offer as sacrifices to Yahweh, they will not find him, for he has withdrawn himself from them." 
Hosea5:7 They have been proven unfaithful to Yahweh, having fathered illegitimate children. Now, before the new moon festival, they and their fields will be devoured.”" 
Hosea5:8 “Sound the shofar in Gibeah, blow the trumpet in Ramah, and raise the war cry at Bethel: ‘On your guard, men of Benjamin!’" 
Hosea5:9 When the day of reckoning comes, Ephraim will be overthrown. For I have pronounced certain doom on the tribes of Israel.”" 
Hosea5:10 “I am angry with the leaders of Judah, for they came into the Northern Kingdom and stole their land. I will pour my wrath out on them like a flood." 
Hosea5:11 Ephraim is oppressed, crushed by the verdict, for having deliberately chased a lie." 
Hosea5:12 Because of this, I will be like a maggot in the wound of Ephraim and like gangrene for the people of Judah." 
Hosea5:13 Once Ephraim realized that he was sick and that Judah had an ulcer, Ephraim then turned to Assyria for help and sent messengers to the great king, but he has no power to cure you or to heal your wound." 
Hosea5:14 For I will attack Ephraim like a lion and the land of Judah like a young lion. I will maul my prey and drag them away, and no one will be able to snatch them from my hands." 
Hosea5:15 I will return to my place until they confess their guilt and seek my face. Then, in their distress, they will eagerly seek me and my grace.”" 
Hosea6:1 And they will say to one another: “Come, everyone! Come back to Yahweh. Although he hit us hard, now he will heal us. Although he wounded us, now he will bandage our wounds." 
Hosea6:2 After two days, he will revive us, and on the third day he will raise us up. Then we will live in his presence" 
Hosea6:3 and truly know him. Let us come to know Yahweh intimately and eagerly press in to know him fully. He will come to us as surely as the sun rises to greet us each day. He will come to us like refreshing rain, like a spring rain that showers the earth.”" 
Hosea6:4 “Ephraim, what am I going to do with you? How should I deal with you, Judah? For your faithfulness is as fleeting as the morning mist, like the dew that quickly disappears." 
Hosea6:5 This is why I have used my prophets to slice you open and the words of my mouth to slay you. For my judgments wake you up like the blazing light of dawn. 
Hosea6:6 What I want from you is steadfast love not simply dead sacrifices; I want you to know me intimately not simply give burnt offerings. 
Hosea6:7 But, like Adam, you have broken my covenant. How unfaithful you are to me!" 
Hosea6:8 “Gilead is a city with streets stained with bloody footprints, a city known for its evildoers." 
Hosea6:9 “The priests are like a gang of robbers waiting in ambush, a gang of priests who commit murder on the road to Shechem. What heinous crimes they have committed!" 
Hosea6:10 “I have witnessed a horrible thing in Israel’s temple; there Ephraim practices temple prostitution, grossly defiling Israel." 
Hosea6:11 Listen to me, Judah! A harvest of judgment is in store for you too.”" 
Hosea7:1 whenever I desire to heal Israel, I am confronted by Ephraim’s guilt, and all I can see is Samaria’s sin. For they all practice deceit. No place is secure. They break into homes and steal. Gangs raid in the open." 
Hosea7:2 But it never occurs to them that I, Yahweh, remember all their evil deeds. They are all prisoners of their own wickedness, and their sin stares me in the face.”" 
Hosea7:3 Yahweh says, “They deceive the king with their wickedness and the rulers with their lies." 
Hosea7:4 They are all unfaithful to the king. Their anger is like an overheated oven. Their oven burns so hot that the baker could knead his bread at night until it rises in the morning and he still wouldn’t need to stoke the fire. 
Hosea7:5 On the king’s day of celebration, his officials are drunk with wine, and the king trusted the traitors." 
Hosea7:6 Their hearts are like an oven that burns with treachery. All night long, their anger smolders; then in the morning, it bursts into flame." 
Hosea7:7 Yes, they are all as hot as an oven, ready to consume their rulers. All their kings have fallen in this way, yet not one of them has ever called on me.”" 
Hosea7:8 Yahweh says, “Ephraim mixes with the nations. My people are like half-done flatbread, burnt on one side and raw dough on the other." 
Hosea7:9 Ephraim does not realize alliances with foreigners devoured his strength; even his hair has turned gray, but he has no clue." 
Hosea7:10 Israel’s arrogance has become his own accuser. Yet in spite of all these troubles, they do not seek me, Yahweh their God, nor come back to me." 
Hosea7:11 “Ephraim is like a dove, silly and senseless, first calling on Egypt for help then turning to Assyria." 
Hosea7:12 Wherever they turn, I will spread out my net and catch them. I will bring them down like the birds from the air. I will punish them for the evil they have done.”" 
Hosea7:13 “They are doomed for having fled from me. Destruction will seize them for having rebelled against me. I longed to pay their ransom time and time again, but they have believed and spoken lies about me." 
Hosea7:14 Their cries to me are not with a sincere heart, and they wail like heathens on their beds. When they ritually mutilate themselves to cause their grain and grapes to grow, they know they are rebelling against me." 
Hosea7:15 Though I held them up, giving strength to their arms, they plotted evil against me." 
Hosea7:16 They turned in the wrong direction to a god who is no god at all. They are like a warped bow that can’t shoot straight. Their leaders will be killed in war because of all their arrogant, defiant words. Oh, how the Egyptians will mock them!”" 
Hosea8:1 “Blow the shofar! Sound the alarm! Like a scavenging vulture, disaster is swooping down on Yahweh ’s land because they have violated my covenant and rebelled against my instruction." 
Hosea8:2 Of course, they cry out to me, ‘Our God!’ My people, Israel, you claim that you know me," 
Hosea8:3 but you have rejected what is good. Therefore, your enemies will pursue you.”" 
Hosea8:4 “They have selected kings but without my consent, and appointed leaders but without seeking my advice. They have made idols out of their silver and gold— what an excellent way to lose their money!" 
Hosea8:5 Samaria, I reject your calf-idol! My anger blazes against your people. How long before they reclaim their purity?" 
Hosea8:6 Surely, this calf-idol originated with Israel. A craftsman made it; it’s not even a god at all. Yes, this calf of Samaria will be shattered to pieces.”" 
Hosea8:7 “Since they sow the wind, they will reap the whirlwind. They will reap headless stalks of grain that produce no flour, and even if they did produce grain, foreigners would swallow it." 
Hosea8:8 Israel has already been swallowed up and is now powerless among the nations. Israel, you are like a useless piece of broken pottery." 
Hosea8:9 For indeed, you have sought assistance from Assyria, like a wild donkey wandering alone. Ephraim has sold herself to other lovers." 
Hosea8:10 Although they have hired allies from among the nations, I will round them up for judgment. They are already wasting away under the oppression of the king of princes.”" 
Hosea8:11 “The more altars Ephraim builds, the more places the people have to sin— altars for sinning and not for sin offerings." 
Hosea8:12 Although many times I have written many rules for my people, Ephraim regards them as something strange and foreign." 
Hosea8:13 They love to offer sacrifices to me so that they can eat the meat. But I, Yahweh, take no pleasure in them. I will not forget their guilt, and I will punish them for their sins. They will have to go back to Egypt." 
Hosea8:14 Israel has built palaces but has forgotten his Maker. Judah keeps on building fortified towns, but I will rain fire down on his cities to devour the strongholds with flames.”" 
Hosea9:1 Stop rejoicing, people of Israel! Stop rejoicing as you celebrate your festivals like pagans, for you have deserted your God and committed fornication with other gods. You have loved the prostitute’s pay on every threshing floor as if Baal were the one who could give you good harvests." 
Hosea9:2 You will not be able to enjoy the bounty of your harvest— for others will consume your wheat, oil, and wine." 
Hosea9:3 Ephraim will not remain in Yahweh ’s land; they will have to go back to Egypt or eat Assyria’s polluted food. 
Hosea9:4 Their sacrifices will not be pleasing to Yahweh. They will not be able to offer their firstfruits nor pour out drink offerings of wine to him, for their food will be like funeral fare— food given to those in mourning. Whoever eats it will become unclean. They will only have sufficient food to satisfy their hunger and not enough to offer to Yahweh in his house." 
Hosea9:5 What will you do on the appointed feast days, on the day you gather for Yahweh ’s festivals?" 
Hosea9:6 Look! Even if you flee from destruction, Egypt will round you up. Your gathering together will be for your burial in Memphis. Your silver treasures will be lost among the weeds, and thornbushes will overgrow your homes." 
Hosea9:7 Your day of punishment has come, and the time for recompense has arrived, and Israel will know it. You say, “The prophet is a fool. This man of the Spirit is crazy!” But your guilt is great, even greater than all your deep-seated hatred." 
Hosea9:8 This prophet of my God is a watchman for Israel. Yet, everywhere he goes, the people set traps for him. He is considered an enemy in the house of his God." 
Hosea9:9 Israel has sunk so deeply into depravity— just as you did at Gibeah. God will not overlook the guilt of your actions; he will punish you for your sins. 
Hosea9:10 Yahweh says, “When I found you, Israel, it was as pleasing as finding ripe grapes in the desert. When I saw your ancestors, it was as delightful as seeing the early ripe figs on a new fig tree in its first productive season. But when they reached Baal Peor they devoted themselves to the shameful god, Baal, and became as shameful as the things they loved." 
Hosea9:11 The glory of Israel will fly away from you like a bird, leaving you infertile—no pregnancy, no conception." 
Hosea9:12 Even if they raise their children, I will remove them, and not one will be left alive. Even worse than that will be when I desert you." 
Hosea9:13 Ephraim, I once saw you like the city of Tyre planted in a pleasant setting, but now you must send out your sons to be slaughtered in battle.”" 
Hosea9:14 Yahweh, give them . . . Yes, what punishment should I ask you to give? Give them wombs that miscarry and breasts with no milk." 
Hosea9:15 Yahweh says, “All of Ephraim’s evil began at Gilgal. It was there that I started to become their enemy. I will drive them out of my house because of the evil they have done. I will no longer love them because all their leaders are rebels." 
Hosea9:16 Ephraim, you’re finished! Your root has dried up, and you will bear no more fruit. Even if the women do give birth, I will put their beloved children to death.”" 
Hosea9:17 My God will disown you because you have not listened to him. You will become wanderers among the nations. 
Hosea10:1 Israel was once like a lush vine that produced plenty of grapes. Yet the more his fruit increased, the more pagan altars he built. The more abundantly his land increased, the more abundant were his sacred fertility pillars." 
Hosea10:2 Israel’s devotion is false and divided; soon the people must pay the penalty for their guilt. Yahweh will demolish their altars and shatter their sacred pillars. 
Hosea10:3 Then they will say, “We have lost our king because we have not feared Yahweh, but what could a human king do for us anyway?”" 
Hosea10:4 All they do is make empty speeches, phony promises, and useless treaties. Their so-called justice spreads like poisonous weeds among the furrows of the fields." 
Hosea10:5 Samaria’s citizens will tremble and mourn over the loss of their sacred calves of Bethel. Everyone will wail over its loss along with their idolatrous priests because their “glory” has gone into exile. 
Hosea10:6 They will carry the calf-idol to Assyria as tribute to the great king. Ephraim will reap the shame. What a disgrace for Israel! 
Hosea10:7 Samaria—your king has had his day. Your king will disappear like a twig on the surface of the waters. 
Hosea10:8 The hilltop shrines, the vanity and sin of Israel, will be demolished. Thorns and thistles will overgrow and cover their altars. Then they will say to the mountains, “Bury us!” and to the hills, “Fall on us!”" 
Hosea10:9 “Israel, since the days of Gibeah, you have not stopped sinning. From then until now, you have persisted in your ways. Were not the evildoers overtaken by war in Gibeah?" 
Hosea10:10 When I am ready, I will discipline these wayward people, and armies will be gathered against them to put them in bonds for their double sins.”" 
Hosea10:11 Yahweh says, “Ephraim was once obedient like a well-trained cow that loved to thresh the grain. Seeing her fair neck, I thought I would put Ephraim in the yoke. Judah will have to plow; Jacob must level the soil." 
Hosea10:12 Sow seeds of righteousness for yourselves, and you will reap a harvest of God’s unending love. Break up the hard, fallow ground of your heart. For it is time to seek Yahweh ’s favor until he comes to pour out righteousness on you like falling rain." 
Hosea10:13 But instead, you have cultivated lawlessness and reaped a harvest of injustice. You have eaten the fruit of your lies. Because you have trusted in your own strength and in your vast, mighty army," 
Hosea10:14 war cries will break out against your people, and all your fortified cities will be destroyed. Just as Shalman destroyed Beth Arbel on the day of battle, when children and their mothers were dashed to death on the ground," 
Hosea10:15 so it will be done to you, Bethel, because of your evil stacked upon evil. At dawn, as the battle begins, your kingship will be no more.”" 
Hosea11:1 “I have deeply loved Israel from his very beginning. From Egypt, I called my son." 
Hosea11:2 The more the people of Israel were invited to come to me, the more they turned away from me. They sacrificed to the Baal-idols and burned incense to pagan images" 
Hosea11:3 even though I was the one who taught Israel to walk. I took them up in my arms and carried them, yet they did not acknowledge that I was their healer." 
Hosea11:4 I gently pulled them to my heart with the cords of affectionate love. I stooped down to care for them and gently fed them. I showed them the same kind of tender love as one who picks up an infant and holds it to his cheek.” 
Hosea11:5 “Israel will return to the land of Egypt, and Assyria will rule over them because they refused to return to me." 
Hosea11:6 The whirlwind of war will break down the bars of their gates and ravage their cities in return for all their schemes. 
Hosea11:7 My people are bent on turning away from me, and together they call upon Baal, who will not help them at all.”" 
Hosea11:8 “Ephraim, how could I ever give up on you? Israel, how could I ever let you go? How can I treat you like Admah or deal with you like Zeboiim— cities I destroyed? My heart beats for you, and my compassion rekindles a deep love for you within me." 
Hosea11:9 I will certainly not punish you in my burning anger, nor will I turn around and destroy Israel again, for I am God and not a mere human being. I am the Holy One in the midst of you; I will not come to you in my wrath.”" 
Hosea11:10 “When I, Yahweh, roar like a lion, my people will march behind me. Yes, I will roar like a lion to gather my own around me! Indeed, when I roar, my children will come trembling from the west." 
Hosea11:11 They will return trembling like a bird from Egypt, like a dove from Assyria, and I will settle them in their homes. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Hosea12:1 Ephraim follows fantasies, like feeding on the wind. They chase the desert wind all day long; they multiply their lies and violence. They make a treaty with Assyria, and at the same time, they send a gift of olive oil to Egypt.”" 
Hosea12:2 Yahweh is bringing charges against Judah. He will punish Jacob as his conduct deserves; he will repay the people for what they have done. 
Hosea12:3 In his mother’s womb, Jacob grabbed his twin brother’s heel; when he grew to be a man, he struggled with God." 
Hosea12:4 He wrestled with the angel and won; he wept and sought his blessing. God met him at Bethel, and there he spoke to us." 
Hosea12:5 Yes, Yahweh is the God of Angel Armies. Yahweh —remember his name!" 
Hosea12:6 And you, to your God you must return. Stand guard over divine love and justice and always put your trust in him as you wait patiently for your God." 
Hosea12:7 Israel, you are like merchants using fraudulent scales. How you love to cheat your customers!" 
Hosea12:8 Ephraim boasts, “Look how rich I have become! I’ve made a fortune all by myself. There’s nothing wrong with the profits I have made. Is there anything sinful about that?”" 
Hosea12:9 “I, Yahweh, have been your true God ever since your days in Egypt. Yet, I will make you live in tents again as you did when we first met in the Tent of Meeting.”" 
Hosea12:10 “I am the One who speaks through the prophets, and reveals to them vision after vision. Through the ministry of prophets, I reveal my message in parables.”" 
Hosea12:11 “Gilead is full of nothing but iniquity! Therefore, its people will be wiped out. Do they sacrifice bulls in Gilgal? That is why I will make their altars nothing but heaps of stones on the furrows of the plowed fields.”" 
Hosea12:12 Jacob fled to the land of Aram, where Israel became a servant to win a wife. He took care of another man’s sheep to pay the bride-price." 
Hosea12:13 By a prophet, Yahweh brought Israel out of Egypt; By a prophet named Moses, he cared for his people, Israel." 
Hosea12:14 But the people of Israel have provoked him to bitter anger. Yahweh will hold the Israelites responsible for the crimes of bloodshed they have committed. Their master will make them pay for all the disgraceful things they have done. 
Hosea13:1 When Ephraim used to speak, his words commanded great respect. He once had great authority in Israel, but he became guilty of Baal worship and signed his own death warrant." 
Hosea13:2 And now they sin more and more by making silver idols for themselves, cleverly crafted idols of their own invention— each skillfully made by human hands. “Sacrifice to them,” they say. Why would men kiss idols of calves?" 
Hosea13:3 Therefore, the entire tribe of Ephraim will vanish like the morning mist, like the dew that quickly disappears, like the chaff blown by the wind from the threshing floor, like smoke rising from a chimney." 
Hosea13:4 “I, Yahweh, have been your true God ever since your days in Egypt. You must know no other god but me. There is no other god who can save you." 
Hosea13:5 I tenderly cared for you in the desert, in the land of dreadful drought." 
Hosea13:6 When I pastured you, you were full, but when you were satisfied, your hearts grew proud, and you completely forgot about me." 
Hosea13:7 So now I will be like a male lion to you, like a leopard lurking beside the path." 
Hosea13:8 I will attack you like a charging bear robbed of her cubs, and will rip open your chest. Like a lioness, I will devour you on the spot; like a wild beast I will tear you to shreds!" 
Hosea13:9 Israel, you have destroyed yourself, because you are against me, your only help.”" 
Hosea13:10 “Where is your king now, who could save you in all your cities? Where are your rulers, of whom you said, ‘Give us a king and leaders’?" 
Hosea13:11 In my anger, I gave you kings, and in my wrath, I have taken them away." 
Hosea13:12 “Ephraim’s sin is recorded; his guilt is on record and kept in store. 
Hosea13:13 “You are like a senseless baby at the point of childbirth; labor pains have begun, and his time is due, but he refuses to leave the womb." 
Hosea13:14 Shall I save my people from the clutches of Sheol? Shall I ransom them from Death’s firm grip? Hey, Death! Tell me, where is your punishment? Hey, Grave! Tell me, where is your sting? Revenge will be hidden from my eyes.”" 
Hosea13:15 Though Ephraim bears more fruit than his brothers, Yahweh ’s breath will blow from the desert. The scorching wind will come from the east; it will dry up his springs, and his wells will run dry. The wind will come to plunder his treasury, robbing it of every precious thing." 
Hosea13:16 Samaria will be punished because she has rebelled against her God. Her people will fall by the sword; even her little ones will be dashed to pieces and her pregnant women split open. 
Hosea14:1 Israel, return to Yahweh! Come back to your true God, for your sins have become your downfall." 
Hosea14:2 Repent! Choose the words of your confession and come back to Yahweh. Say to him, “Take all my guilt away; be gracious to us and receive us. Instead of animal sacrifices, we offer to you the praises of our lips." 
Hosea14:3 Assyria will not be our savior; you will. No longer will we trust in our military might. We will not call our handmade idols ‘our god.’ For in you, the orphan finds tender mercy.”" 
Hosea14:4 “I will heal you of your unfaithfulness. I will love you with all my heart, for my anger has turned away from you." 
Hosea14:5 My presence will fall like refreshing dew on Israel. My people will blossom as the fair lily and become firmly rooted as the cedars of Lebanon. 
Hosea14:6 My people will spread out like the beautiful branches of olive trees and carry the desirable scent of Lebanon’s cedars. 
Hosea14:7 They will come back to live beneath the shadow of my blessing. They will flourish like a sunlit field of wheat and thrive as a blossoming vine. Their wine will be as famous as the wine of Lebanon. 
Hosea14:8 Ephraim will say, ‘Why would I ever want to worship idols anymore?’ I, Yahweh, am the one who hears, responds, and watches over him. For I will shelter him under my branches like an evergreen cypress. Ephraim, you owe your fruitfulness to me.”" 
Hosea14:9 Do you consider yourself wise? Then you will understand these words. Are you discerning? Then you will discover their meaning. For Yahweh ’s paths are smooth for walking, and the righteous will walk in them, but the rebellious sinners will stumble in them." 
Joel1:1 These are the words of Yahweh that came to Joel son of Pethuel. 
Joel1:2 Listen to this, you leaders in the land; everybody everywhere, pay attention! Has anything like this ever happened in your lifetime or in the days of your ancestors?" 
Joel1:3 Tell your children about it! And tell them to tell their children and to tell their children to tell the next generation. 
Joel1:4 What the cutting-locust has left, the swarming-locust has eaten; what the swarming-locust has left, the hopping-locust has eaten; what the hopping-locust has left, the destroying-locust has eaten." 
Joel1:5 Wake up, you drunkards, and weep! Wail, all you wine-drinkers! For the new wine has been snatched from your lips." 
Joel1:6 For a nation has invaded my land, powerful and innumerable, with teeth like a lion’s teeth, and with the fangs of a lioness." 
Joel1:7 They have completely destroyed my vineyards and reduced my fig trees to splinters; they have stripped off the bark and thrown it away, leaving their branches white." 
Joel1:8 Lament like a young bride-to-be dressed in sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth. 
Joel1:9 Yahweh ’s ministers, the priests, are in mourning because there is no more grain and wine to offer in Yahweh ’s temple." 
Joel1:10 The fields are stripped bare, and the ground is plunged into sadness over the ruined harvest. The grapes have dried up, and there is no new wine; only a trickle of olive oil remains." 
Joel1:11 Be ashamed, you farmers, for there is no harvest of wheat and barley. You vinedressers, cry out in despair, for the harvest of the fields has been lost." 
Joel1:12 The vine has withered, and the fig tree wilts away. In fact, every tree of the field has withered— pomegranate, date palm, and apple tree. And in the same way, the people’s joy and gladness has withered too." 
Joel1:13 You priests, put on sackcloth and weep. You ministers who serve at the altar, mourn and wail! Go, spend the night in the temple, you servants of my God, because there is no more grain or wine offerings to bring to the house of your God." 
Joel1:14 Declare a holy fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the leaders and all the people of the land to the house of Yahweh your God. Cry out with all your hearts to Yahweh! 
Joel1:15 How awful that time will be! Look! The day of Yahweh is certainly coming— the day when the Divine Destroyer brings destruction. 
Joel1:16 Has not the food supply been cut off before our very eyes? Have not the joyful celebrations been silenced in the temple of our God? 
Joel1:17 The seeds shrivel under the dry clods. The storehouses are empty; the barns are bare and broken down because the harvest has disappeared. 
Joel1:18 How loudly the cattle groan because they have no pasture! The herds wander bewildered. Not even the flocks of sheep are able to graze. 
Joel1:19 Yahweh, I cry out to you with all my heart, for fire has devoured the open pastures, and flame has scorched all the trees of the field." 
Joel1:20 The sources of water have run dry and fire has devoured the pasturelands, leaving the wild animals panting loudly for you." 
Joel2:1 Blow the shofar in Zion, sound the alarm on my mountain of holiness! Shake the people awake, for the day of Yahweh is coming. Yes, it is almost here." 
Joel2:2 It will be a day of darkness and gloom, a black and cloudy day. As the dawning light spreads across the mountains, so will a great and powerful people advance, an army such as has never been seen before and such as will never be seen again, not even in all the ages to come." 
Joel2:3 Fire blazes before them, and behind them the flame consumes. Before their eyes, the earth is like the garden of Eden, and behind them they leave a devastated wilderness. Nothing escapes them unscathed." 
Joel2:4 Their appearance is like horses prepared for battle; like war horses, they charge ahead." 
Joel2:5 They rumble like war chariots; they leap over the mountaintops. They devour the land, with the sound of a wildfire devouring stubble. They are a mighty people who are prepared for the battle." 
Joel2:6 At the sight of this army, nations panic, all their faces grow pale." 
Joel2:7 They press forward like mighty warriors, and scale walls like elite soldiers, each marching straight ahead, not swerving from his path." 
Joel2:8 They never jostle each other, for each one stays on his own path. They storm the city and burst through its defenses. Together they are unstoppable." 
Joel2:9 They rush against the city and scale its walls. They climb up into the houses and enter through the windows like thieves. 
Joel2:10 As that army advances, the earth shakes, and the heavens tremble. The sun and moon grow dark, and the stars no longer shine." 
Joel2:11 Yahweh ’s voice thunders as he leads his valiant troops. Numberless are the mighty ones who obey his commands. Yes, the day of Yahweh is great and astonishing! Who can withstand it?" 
Joel2:12 “But it’s not too late,” declares Yahweh. “Come back to me now with all your heart, with fasting, weeping, and mourning." 
Joel2:13 Tearing your clothes in sorrow is not enough— tear open your hearts!” Come back to Yahweh your God, for he is gracious to welcome you home and compassionate to embrace you. Yahweh is slow to anger and so rich in extravagant love for you. He is always ready to forgive and cancel judgment." 
Joel2:14 Who knows if he will not turn around and show pity, leaving behind a blessing. Then you can bring offerings of grain and wine to be presented to Yahweh your God." 
Joel2:15 Blow the shofar in Zion! Call for a fast and proclaim a solemn assembly. 
Joel2:16 Gather the people together, and prepare them for a sacred meeting. From the oldest to the youngest, assemble the community, even the nursing infants. Let the newly wedded bride and bridegroom come from their chamber." 
Joel2:17 With everyone gathered in the courtyard, the priests, the ministers of Yahweh, must stand weeping between the portico and the altar of burnt offering. Let them face the sanctuary and intercede, saying, “Spare your people! Have pity, Yahweh! Do not expose your very own people to the contempt and sarcasm of the nations. Why give the nations cause to say, ‘Where is their God now?’ ”" 
Joel2:18 Then Yahweh showed his great love for the land and showered compassion upon his people. 
Joel2:19 Yahweh answered their cry and said, “Behold, now your fast is over. I am providing you with plenty of wheat, wine, and olive oil until you are satisfied. Never again will I make you an object of scorn among the nations." 
Joel2:20 I will remove your northern enemy far from you and drive him into a dry, desolate land, with his front ranks to the Dead Sea and his rear guard to the Mediterranean Sea. I will destroy them for their boastful deeds, and people will smell the stench of their dead bodies.” Truly, he has done great things!" 
Joel2:21 My land, do not fear, for your restoration has come! Be glad and rejoice, you people, for Yahweh has done marvelous things for you." 
Joel2:22 Animals of the field, do not be afraid, for the pastures of the wilderness are green again, the trees bear their fruit, and the vine and fig tree yield their richness." 
Joel2:23 Children of Zion, be glad! Celebrate the mighty acts of Yahweh your God, for he has given you a teacher of righteousness whose teaching is like the refreshing spring rains. And he will pour down the rains for you, the spring and autumn rains as before." 
Joel2:24 “The threshing floors will be full of grain, the pits beside the presses will overflow with new wine and fresh oil." 
Joel2:25 I will make up for the years the swarms of locusts ruined your harvest— the hopping-locusts, the destroying-locusts, and the cutting-locusts— my great army that I sent against you." 
Joel2:26 You will eat to your heart’s content and be satisfied. You will gloriously praise the name of Yahweh your God, who has treated you so wonderfully. And never will my people be despised again." 
Joel2:27 Then, Israel, you will know without question that I am dwelling among you. I am Yahweh your God, and no one else. I say again: no more will I surrender my people to shame.”" 
Joel2:28 “Then afterward, I will pour out my Spirit on everyone. Your sons and your daughters will boldly prophesy, your elderly will have supernatural dreams, and your youth will experience ecstatic visions." 
Joel2:29 And I will even pour out my Spirit in those days upon every servant, both male and female." 
Joel2:30 “And I will display amazing wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke." 
Joel2:31 The sun will be darkened, and the moon will appear as red as blood. These events will occur before the great and awesome day of Yahweh comes." 
Joel2:32 And everyone who sincerely worships Yahweh will be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be a remnant who are spared, as I, Yahweh, have promised. They will be the chosen survivors whom I, Yahweh, will call.”" 
Joel3:1 “Behold! In those days, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem," 
Joel3:2 I will gather all the nations together. I will bring them to the Valley of Yahweh ’s Judgment. I will take them to court there for all they have done against Israel— my people and my inheritance. I will execute judgment upon them because they have scattered my people among the nations and divided my land among themselves. 
Joel3:3 They cast lots for my people and sold them into slavery. They traded a boy to pay for a prostitute and trafficked a girl for a drink of wine. 
Joel3:4 And what have you done to me, Tyre and Sidon and all you regions of Philistia? Are you trying to take revenge on me? If you are, I will swiftly and speedily pay you back and return your revenge so that it lands squarely on your own heads." 
Joel3:5 For you have stolen my silver and gold and carried off my valuable treasures into your temples. 
Joel3:6 You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks to be taken as slaves far from their homeland. 
Joel3:7 Behold! I will rouse them to return and come back from the places to which you have sold them. I will do to you the very thing that you have done to them. 
Joel3:8 Your sons and daughters will be sold as slaves to the sons of Judah, who in turn will sell them to the Sabaeans, who live in a distant land. I, Yahweh, have spoken!”" 
Joel3:9 Proclaim this message among the nations: “Prepare for war!” Awaken the champions! Let all you soldiers gather, advance, and march." 
Joel3:10 Hammer your plowshares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weakling say, “I am a champion!”" 
Joel3:11 Hurry and join the battle, all you surrounding nations. Come and assemble there. Yahweh, send down your champions, your warring angels!" 
Joel3:12 “Let the nations stir themselves up and march to the Valley of Yahweh ’s Judgment. There I will sit in judgment on all the surrounding nations. 
Joel3:13 “Swing the sickle, for the harvest is ripe for judgment. Come and tread the grapes of wrath. The winepress is full and the vats are overflowing for their wickedness is so great!”" 
Joel3:14 Multitudes! So many multitudes in the Valley of Decision! For the day of Yahweh is near in the Valley of the Verdict. 
Joel3:15 The sun and moon grow dark, and the stars no longer shine." 
Joel3:16 Yahweh roars from Zion, and his voice thunders from Jerusalem; heaven and earth tremble. But Yahweh will be a shelter for his people, a faithful fortress for Israel." 
Joel3:17 “Then you will know that I am Yahweh your God, who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. Jerusalem will be a sanctuary, and foreigners will never conquer it again." 
Joel3:18 A time is coming when the mountains will drip with new wine and the hills will flow with milk, and all the arid streambeds of Judah will run with water year-round. A fountain will spring from Yahweh ’s temple and descend to the valley of acacia trees." 
Joel3:19 “Egypt will become a desert and Edom a desolate wilderness because of the atrocious acts of violence they committed against the people of Judah, whose innocent blood they shed in their land." 
Joel3:20 I will avenge their blood and not spare the guilty, but Judah will be inhabited forever, Jerusalem from generation to generation, and Yahweh will dwell in Zion.”" 
Joel3:21  
Amos1:1 There was a prophet named Amos, a herdsman from the town of Tekoa. Two years before the great earthquake, when Uzziah was king of Judah, and Jeroboam son of Jehoash was king of Israel, God revealed these prophetic visions to Amos about Israel." 
Amos1:2 Amos said: “ Yahweh comes roaring out of Zion; from Jerusalem he comes with his thunderous voice. The shepherds’ lush pastures are dried up, and the trees on top of Mount Carmel wither.”" 
Amos1:3 Here is the message of Yahweh: “For the three terrible crimes of the people of Damascus— no, make that four — I will not turn back my wrath. For they have treated the people of Gilead with savage cruelty, running over them with a threshing sledge equipped with iron teeth." 
Amos1:4 So I will send fire down on the dynasty of Hazael to devour the royal palaces defended by Ben-Hadad. 
Amos1:5 I will smash the city gates of Damascus, I will cut down the ruler who sits in the Valley of Wickedness, the one who holds the royal scepter in the Paradise of Pleasure. And the people of Syria will go back to where they came from—to Kir,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos1:6 Here is the message of Yahweh: “For the three terrible crimes of the people of Gaza— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath. They have deported an entire community of exiles as slaves to Edom." 
Amos1:7 I will send fire down on the walls of Gaza to consume its fortresses. 
Amos1:8 I will cut off the ruler of Ashdod and the one who holds the scepter in Ashkelon. I will strike my blows against the city of Ekron, and what’s left of the Philistines will perish,” says the Lord Yahweh." 
Amos1:9 Yahweh says this: “For the three terrible crimes of the people of Tyre— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath. For they deported entire people groups into exile in the land of Edom. In so doing, they broke the covenant of brotherhood." 
Amos1:10 So I will send fire down on the city walls of Tyre to devour her fortresses.” 
Amos1:11 Yahweh says this: “For the three terrible crimes of the Edomites— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath. For Edom hunted down his relatives, the Israelites, with the sword, and he refused to show mercy. His anger never died down, and his rage continued to the end." 
Amos1:12 I will set the city of Teman on fire to burn up the fortresses of Bozrah.” 
Amos1:13 Yahweh says this: “For the three terrible crimes of the Ammonites— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath. In order to seize more land for themselves, they ripped open the pregnant women of Gilead." 
Amos1:14 Therefore I will burn down the city walls of Rabbah to consume its fortresses. War cries will be heard on the day of battle; like a whirlwind, war will ravage the land." 
Amos1:15 Ammon’s king will be taken into captivity, he and his officials with him,” says Yahweh." 
Amos2:1 Yahweh says this: “For the three terrible crimes of the Moabites— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath. They burned the bones of the king of Edom to lime." 
Amos2:2 So I will send fire down into Moab to devour the fortresses of Kerioth. Moab will perish in the heat of battle amid war cries and the blaring of shofars. 
Amos2:3 I will destroy Moab’s ruler and slaughter all officials there with him,” says Yahweh." 
Amos2:4 Yahweh says this: “For the three terrible crimes of Judah— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath because they have despised Yahweh ’s instructions and not kept his commandments. Their lies, which their ancestors followed, have led them astray." 
Amos2:5 I will send fire down on Judah to devour the fortresses of Jerusalem.” 
Amos2:6 Yahweh says this: “For the three terrible crimes of Israel— no, make that four— I will not turn back my wrath. For a few pieces of silver, they sold honest people into slavery. They even sold the poor, who couldn’t pay their debts, for a pair of sandals." 
Amos2:7 They trample the poor and helpless into the dirt and shove aside the rights of the destitute. A son and his father have sex with the same woman, and by doing so, they profane my holy name." 
Amos2:8 They lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken as security for debts, and in the house of God they drink the wine they got from those who have been fined." 
Amos2:9 “Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorites before your very eyes. They stood as tall as cedar trees and as strong as oaks. I destroyed them root and branch. 
Amos2:10 It was I who brought you up from Egypt and led you for forty years through the desert to possess the land of the Amorites. 
Amos2:11 I raised up prophets from your sons and Nazirites from your young men. People of Israel, is this not true? I, Yahweh, have spoken!" 
Amos2:12 “But you made the Nazirites drink wine and break their vow. You ordered the prophets, ‘You’d better not prophesy.’" 
Amos2:13 Very well! I will press you down like a cart overloaded with grain. 
Amos2:14 Even the swiftest runner will not escape, physical strength will not be enough to protect the strong, nor will the mighty warrior be able to save himself." 
Amos2:15 The archer will not stand his ground, the fastest runners will not escape, nor will the one who flees on horseback save his life." 
Amos2:16 In that day, even the bravest of warriors will throw down his arms and run away. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Amos3:1 Israelites, listen to this prophecy that Yahweh pronounces against you, against all the people I rescued from Egypt." 
Amos3:2 “Of all the nations of the earth, you are the only one I have intimately known and have always cared for. That is why I will punish you for all your wrongdoings.”" 
Amos3:3 Do two walk together unless they have agreed to do so? 
Amos3:4 Does the lion roar in the bush if it has no prey? Does the lion growl in his lair if it has seized nothing? 
Amos3:5 Does a bird alight on a trap on the ground if there is no bait inside? Does the net spring up from the ground if it has caught nothing? 
Amos3:6 Does the war trumpet sound in the city without the people being frightened? Does calamity come to a city if it has not passed through Yahweh ’s hands? 
Amos3:7 Indeed, Lord Yahweh does nothing without revealing his secrets to his servants the prophets." 
Amos3:8 The lion has roared! Who is not afraid? Lord Yahweh has spoken! Who will not prophesy? 
Amos3:9 Proclaim to the strongholds of Assyria and Egypt, and say to them, “Gather on the hills around Samaria; take a good, hard look at the rampant disorder within the city and see how oppressed the people are.”" 
Amos3:10 “They don’t even know how to do right,” declares Yahweh. “They hoard in their palaces the spoils of their violence and extortion." 
Amos3:11 Therefore, I, Lord Yahweh, say: an enemy will soon overrun the land. He will topple your strongholds and plunder your palaces.”" 
Amos3:12 This is what Yahweh says: “As a shepherd can only rescue two leg bones or a piece of an ear out of the jaws of a lion, so the Israelites who live in Samaria will only be able to salvage one leg of a bed and a piece of a headboard from their ravaged city.”" 
Amos3:13 “I, Lord Yahweh, the Mighty God of Angel Armies, say: Listen! Warn Jacob’s descendants." 
Amos3:14 On the day when I punish Israel for her crimes, I will also destroy the altars of Bethel. The horns of the altar will be hacked off and fall to the ground." 
Amos3:15 I will tear down the winter house of the wealthy along with your summer house. Your luxury homes decorated with ivory and your lovely mansions will likewise be destroyed. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Amos4:1 Listen to this, you women of Samaria! You’re like the fattened, well-fed cows of Bashan grazing on the fertile mountain of Samaria. You women who exploit the weak and crush the poor and then command your husbands: “Bring us some drinks!”" 
Amos4:2 Lord Yahweh has sworn by his holiness: “Behold, the day is soon coming when they will use hooks to drag you away, every last one of you with fishhooks." 
Amos4:3 They will force you like cattle in a chute through the gaps of the broken walls and herd you off toward Hermon. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Amos4:4 “Go to Bethel and sin! Go to Gilgal and sin some more! You sin when you bring your sacrifices each morning. You sin when you bring your tithes every third day 
Amos4:5 and burn your thank offerings of bread made with yeast. Brag about your extra offerings, people of Israel, for this is what makes you happy! I, Lord Yahweh, have spoken." 
Amos4:6 “In every town, I left you hungry — a food shortage in all your villages— and still, you would not hunger for me. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Amos4:7 “I even withheld the rain from you three months short of harvest. I sent rain to fall on one town but not on another. One field had plenty of rain, and another became dry as dust." 
Amos4:8 People would stagger from city to city, longing for a drink of water yet never quenching their thirst. And still you had no thirst for me. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Amos4:9 “I struck your crops with blight and disease and dried up your many gardens and vineyards. Locusts kept devouring your fig trees and olive trees, and still, you would not return to me. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Amos4:10 “I sent plagues against you like I did against Egypt. I killed your young men with the sword and stole away all your war horses. I filled your nostrils with the stench of your unburied corpses, and still, you would not return to me. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Amos4:11 “I destroyed some of you like I destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Your survivors were like burning sticks plucked from a fire, and still, you would not return to me. I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Amos4:12 “So here is what I plan to do to you, Israel, and because of what I am planning, prepare to meet your God.”" 
Amos4:13 Behold, the Mountain-Maker and Wind-Creator, who reveals his intimate thoughts to people, who changes the dawn into darkness and moves over the mountains of the earth. His name is Yahweh, the God of Angel Armies." 
Amos5:1 Listen to this funeral song that I sing over you, people of Israel:" 
Amos5:2 “Virgin Israel has fallen, never to rise again. There she lies, abandoned on her own soil, with no one to lift her up.”" 
Amos5:3 Lord Yahweh says this: “The city that deployed a thousand soldiers will only have a hundred come back, and the city that deployed a hundred soldiers will only have ten survivors.”" 
Amos5:4 For Yahweh says this to the people of Israel: “ Come, seek me, and you will live." 
Amos5:5 But don’t go down to seek me at Beersheba. Don’t try to find me at Bethel’s shrines or at the altars at Gilgal. For Gilgal will be taken into exile, and Bethel will be brought to nothing.”" 
Amos5:6 Come back to Yahweh and live, or he will sweep down like fire upon the people of Israel. The fire will burn at Bethel with no one there to put out the flames." 
Amos5:7 They turn justice into a bitter pill to swallow and trample righteousness into the mud. 
Amos5:8 Creator of Constellations—Maker of the Pleiades and Orion, you turn the deepest darkness into dawn and daylight into the darkest night. You draw up drops of water distilled from the sea to drench the earth with pouring rain. Yahweh is your name." 
Amos5:9 You destroy the mighty with a blinding flash and overwhelm their strongholds with certain destruction. 
Amos5:10 They hate the one who challenges injustice and despise the one who declares the whole truth in court. 
Amos5:11 For I know how outrageous are your many sins and how many crimes you have committed. You persecute the righteous, trample on the rights of the poor, and seize their grain through extortion. By taking bribes, you prevent them from getting justice in the courts. This is why you will not live in the fine stone houses you build or enjoy the fruits of your luxury. You will not drink wine from the lush vineyards you plant, for your judgment is imminent." 
Amos5:12  
Amos5:13 Yes, the smartest thing for the prudent is to remain silent in such an evil time as this." 
Amos5:14 Devote yourself to what is good, not evil, so that you may live. And Yahweh, the God of Angel Armies, will really be with you, just as you claim he is." 
Amos5:15 Hate what is evil, love what is right, and let justice prevail in the courts. It may be that Yahweh, God of Angel Armies, will show mercy to the remnant of Israel." 
Amos5:16 Because of Israel’s sins, Lord Yahweh, God of Angel Armies, says this: “Wailing and sorrow everywhere! In every street they will mourn the dead. Those who work in the fields will be expected to mourn along with the professional mourners." 
Amos5:17 There will be wailing in all the vineyards, for I will pass through your midst to punish you,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos5:18 Woe to you who long for the day of Yahweh! Why do you long for the day of Yahweh? Its arrival will mean darkness, not light." 
Amos5:19 You will be seized like someone who runs from a lion and a bear charges at him. Then he hides indoors and leans his hand against the wall only to have a venomous snake bite him. 
Amos5:20 Will not the day of Yahweh bring darkness, not light— a day of gloom without a ray of light?" 
Amos5:21 “I hate your religious festivals; I absolutely despise them! Your pious gatherings make me sick! 
Amos5:22 Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them. And though you bring me choice peace offerings of fattened animals, I won’t even look at them." 
Amos5:23 Spare me the monotonous melodies of your ‘worship.’ I don’t want to hear your strumming guitars anymore. It’s just noise to me. 
Amos5:24 However, I delight in a land where justice flows like a river and where true righteousness rolls like a steady flowing stream." 
Amos5:25 Listen, people of Israel! Didn’t you worship me with your offerings and sacrifices during those forty years in the wilderness?" 
Amos5:26 Now you carry around the pagan idols that you made to worship your phony king, Sakkuth, and your very own star-god, Kaiwan." 
Amos5:27 Therefore, you can carry them all the way beyond Damascus, where I am about to drive you into captivity,” says Yahweh. God of Angel Armies is his name!" 
Amos6:1 Woe to you living so comfortably in Zion! Woe to you who live with a false sense of security on Mount Samaria, the elite of this foremost nation, on whom Israel’s people pin their hopes." 
Amos6:2 Travel to the city of Calneh and see for yourself what happened. Then go on from there to Hamath, the great capital city of the Hittites. Make your way down to Gath in Philistia, and ask yourself — are you better than these kingdoms? Is their territory larger than yours?" 
Amos6:3 You refuse to consider the day when disaster will come, yet all your evil only brings that day closer." 
Amos6:4 Lying on luxurious beds inlaid with ivory and sprawled out on your couches, you feast on lambs from the flock and stall-fattened veal." 
Amos6:5 You compose songs like David and strum away on your harps. 
Amos6:6 You guzzle wine by the bucketful, and slather yourselves with the finest lotions. Yet you do not grieve over Israel’s impending doom." 
Amos6:7 That is why they will be the first to go into captivity. Their lying around while enjoying the good life will come to an end. 
Amos6:8 Lord Yahweh has sworn by his own being — Yahweh, God of Angel Armies, declares: “I hate the pride of the people of Jacob, and I despise their strongholds, I will hand over their capital city to their enemies and everything in it.”" 
Amos6:9 Even if there are ten hiding in a house, they will all die." 
Amos6:10 If a relative who is to light a memorial fire for the dead comes to carry the bodies out of the house for burial and asks, “Is anyone else inside the house with you?” and that person answers, “No,” then the one who asked will say, “Quiet! We must not mention the name of Yahweh.”" 
Amos6:11 Behold, Yahweh strikes with his command: “Houses large and small will be smashed to pieces!”" 
Amos6:12 Can horses gallop over rocky cliffs? Can boulder-strewn hills be plowed with oxen? Of course not! Yet you have managed to pervert justice into poison and the sweet fruits of righteousness into bitter fruit. 
Amos6:13 You rejoice over conquering the city of Lo Debar, saying, “Wasn’t it by our own strength that we captured Karnaim for ourselves?”" 
Amos6:14 But look, house of Israel, Yahweh, God of Angel Armies, declares to you: “I will raise up a mighty nation to come against you, and they will oppress you and overrun your land from the northern to the southern borders of your kingdom.”" 
Amos7:1 This is what Lord Yahweh revealed to me in a vision: Behold! Just after the hay had been cut for the king, when the new young grass started to grow again, I saw Yahweh forming a swarm of mature locusts." 
Amos7:2 I watched as they began eating all the vegetation in the land, so I pleaded with God, saying, “Lord Yahweh, please forgive us, I beg you, or we will not survive! Our nation is so helpless.”" 
Amos7:3 My prayer moved God’s heart to compassion. Yahweh said: “It will not happen.” 
Amos7:4 In another vision, Yahweh revealed this to me: Behold! He was calling for punishment by fire. The scorching heat dried up the deep sources of water beneath the land and made the farmlands like dust." 
Amos7:5 So I pleaded with God, saying, “Lord Yahweh, please don’t do this, I beg you, or we will not survive! Our nation is so helpless.”" 
Amos7:6 Because of my prayer, God’s heart was stirred with compassion. “This also will not happen,” said Yahweh." 
Amos7:7 Lord Yahweh revealed this to me in another vision: I saw the Lord standing by a wall built true to plumb, holding a plumb line in his hand." 
Amos7:8 “Amos, what do you see?” Yahweh asked me. “A plumb line,” I replied. Then the Lord said, “Behold, I am about to set a plumb line up against my people Israel to test them. Never again will I look the other way when they sin." 
Amos7:9 I will destroy the high places where Isaac’s descendants worship, and I will ruin the holy places of Israel. With my sword in hand, I will attack the dynasty of Jeroboam.”" 
Amos7:10 Then Amaziah the chief priest of Bethel sent the following message to Jeroboam king of Israel: “Amos has conspired against you in the very heart of Israel. We cannot stand his speeches! 
Amos7:11 For Amos says, ‘Jeroboam is going to die by the sword, and Israel will go into captivity far from its native land.’ ”" 
Amos7:12 Amaziah said to Amos, “Go away, you seer. Why don’t you escape to Judah while there is time? You can always prophesy there and make your living." 
Amos7:13 But don’t stay around here and prophesy at Bethel anymore. This is the national temple, the place where the king worships.”" 
Amos7:14 Amos replied, “I am not a prophet, nor am I one of the sons of the prophets. I am merely a rancher, and I cultivate fig trees." 
Amos7:15 But one day, Yahweh called me as I was managing my flocks and said to me, ‘Go and prophesy to my people Israel.’" 
Amos7:16 “So now, Amaziah, listen to what Yahweh says. You say: ‘Do not prophesy against Israel, and do not prophesy doom on Isaac’s descendants!’" 
Amos7:17 Very well. This is what Yahweh says: ‘Your wife will become a prostitute in the streets, and your sons and daughters will fall in battle. Your land will be measured, divided up, and given to others. And you yourself will die in a pagan land, and Israel will go into captivity far from its own land!’ ”" 
Amos8:1 Lord Yahweh revealed this to me in another vision: a basket of ripe fruit. 
Amos8:2 “Amos, what do you see?” he asked. “A basket of ripe fruit,” I replied. Then Yahweh said, “The time is ripe for my people Israel. I will not continue to overlook their sins." 
Amos8:3 On that day, those singing songs in the temple will wail instead,” declares the Lord Yahweh. “There will be corpses piled up everywhere. They will be cast out in silence.”" 
Amos8:4 Listen to this, all you who trample on the poor and reduce the needy to nothing!" 
Amos8:5 You say to yourselves, “We can’t wait for these holy days to be over so that we can sell our corn!” And, “When will this Sabbath be over so that we can open the storage and sell our wheat? Then we can overcharge our customers, shortchange them, and deceive them by tampering with the scales." 
Amos8:6 We can even sell the worthless chaff we sweep up for silver. We can buy the poor with silver and make them our slaves because they cannot pay their debts, even a debt so small as that of a pair of sandals.”" 
Amos8:7 Yahweh, the Majesty of Jacob, has sworn an oath: “I will never forget all the evil they have done." 
Amos8:8 That is why the earth will tremble for this, and all who live on it mourn. All of the land will rise up like the river Nile— inundated and stirred up by floodwaters— and then subside, just like the river of Egypt!”" 
Amos8:9 “On that day,” declares Lord Yahweh, “I will make the sun set at noon and darken the earth in the middle of the day." 
Amos8:10 I will turn your festivals into funerals, and all your lively singing into funeral dirges. I will make you all wear sackcloth and shave your heads, as if you were mourning the death of an only child. That day will be bitter to the end.”" 
Amos8:11 “Behold, the days are coming,” declares Lord Yahweh, “when I will send a famine on the land. People will not hunger for food nor thirst for water but will starve for a word from Yahweh." 
Amos8:12 People will stagger from sea to sea and wander from the north to the east searching for a revelation from Yahweh, but they will not hear from me." 
Amos8:13 On that day, even your beautiful young women and strong young men will collapse from thirst." 
Amos8:14 Those who swear by Ashimah, the idol of Samaria, who say, ‘Long live your golden calf-god of Dan!’ and say, ‘As surely as the god of Beersheba lives!’— they will all fall, never to rise again.”" 
Amos9:1 I saw the Lord standing over the altar, and he gave the command: “Smash the top of the pillars so that the foundations shake! Shatter the pillars and make them crumble upon the heads of all the worshipers. And any survivors I will kill by the sword. Whoever runs away will not go far. Whoever tries to escape will not make it." 
Amos9:2 Even if they were to dig their way down to the underworld, my hand would haul them out. Even if they were to climb up to heaven, I would drag them down from there." 
Amos9:3 If they were to hide on top of Mount Carmel, I would hunt them down and snatch them. If they were to try to hide from my eyes at the bottom of the sea, I would order the serpent there to bite them." 
Amos9:4 If their enemies were to herd them into captivity, even there I would order the sword to kill them. Yes, I will fix my eyes on them to destroy them and not to help them.”" 
Amos9:5 Lord Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, you touch the earth and it melts, and everyone on earth mourns. All of the land will rise up like the river Nile— inundated and stirred up by floodwaters— and then subside, just like the river of Egypt." 
Amos9:6 You build your lofty stairway in the heavens and suspend your superdome over the earth. You summon the waters of the sea and pour them over the face of the earth: Yahweh is your name! 
Amos9:7 “Israel, I think as much of the Ethiopians as I do of you; you’re all the same to me,” declares Yahweh. “ Yes, I brought you out from Egypt. But didn’t I also bring out the Philistines from Crete and the Syrians from Kir?" 
Amos9:8 Behold, the eyes of Lord Yahweh are on the sinful kingdom of Israel. I will wipe it off the face of the earth. Yet I will not completely destroy the descendants of Jacob,” declares Yahweh." 
Amos9:9 “Behold, I will speak the command to scatter the people of Israel among all the nations. I will sift them the way sand is shaken in a sieve, through which not a single pebble falls to the ground." 
Amos9:10 All the sinners of my people will die by the sword who say, ‘Nothing bad could ever happen to us.’ ”" 
Amos9:11 “One day I will restore David’s tabernacle that has fallen. I will repair its broken places and raise up its ruins and fix it up like new. I will rebuild it and make it what it was long ago. 
Amos9:12 As a result, David’s people will conquer the nations over which they once ruled for me, down to the last remnant of Edom." 
Amos9:13 Behold, I, Yahweh, make this decree: The days of acceleration are coming, when the harvest will be so great that those plowing the field will overtake those still reaping the harvest, and the ones treading the grapes will overtake those who are planting. Blessings will stream forth like new wine pouring from every mountain, and every hill will flow with favor." 
Amos9:14 I will restore prosperity and good fortune to the captives of Israel. They will rebuild the ruined cities to live in. They will plant vineyards to produce their wine. And plant lush gardens and orchards to eat their produce. 
Amos9:15 And I will plant them in their own land, never to be uprooted again from the land that I have given them. I, Yahweh, your God, have spoken.”" 
Obadiah1:1 This is the vision that Lord Yahweh revealed to Obadiah concerning Edom. We have heard a report from Yahweh: “I have sent a messenger throughout the nations, saying, ‘Rise up! Let us march against this people. Prepare for war!’" 
Obadiah1:2 “Behold, I have reduced you to the least among the nations. You are now utterly despised." 
Obadiah1:3 Your proud heart has deceived you; you who are perched in the hidden places of the rock, whose home is in the heights. You think to yourself, ‘Who can ever topple me to the ground?’" 
Obadiah1:4 Though you soar like an eagle, and your nest is nestled among the stars, I am more than able to bring you down from there. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Obadiah1:5 “When thieves come at night to rob your home, wouldn’t they only steal the things they wanted? When people gather grapes, wouldn’t they miss a few and leave some gleanings behind? But you, Edom—your enemies will totally destroy you!" 
Obadiah1:6 How Esau’s descendants will be looted, their hidden treasures sought out and ransacked!" 
Obadiah1:7 Your allies will deceive you. They will overpower you and chase you off your homeland. Your ‘trusted friends’ will lay a trap for you, and you’ll have no clue it’s coming." 
Obadiah1:8 In that day, will I not destroy all the wise men of Edom and erase all their pseudo -intelligence from the mountains of Esau? I, Yahweh, have spoken." 
Obadiah1:9 Teman, all your brave warriors will be shattered so that everyone will be destroyed from Esau’s mountain.”" 
Obadiah1:10 “Shame will cover you and you will be annihilated because you violently slaughtered your relatives, the Israelites." 
Obadiah1:11 You deserted Israel at her time of need. On that day of infamy, you stood aloof and did nothing as foreigners broke through the city gates of Jerusalem and divided the city among themselves by casting lots. Strangers carried off all her treasures, and you were as one with the invaders." 
Obadiah1:12 Do not gloat over your relatives on the day of their misfortune. Do not rejoice over the people of Judah on the day of their ruin. Do not boast that they suffered such anguish. 
Obadiah1:13 You should not have entered my people’s city on their day of calamity. You should not have feasted your eyes on their suffering on their day of misery. You should not have seized their wealth on their day of sorrow. 
Obadiah1:14 You should not have waited at the crossroads to cut off those who tried to escape. Why did you hand over their survivors on the day of their distress?” 
Obadiah1:15 “The day of Yahweh is drawing near for all the nations. As you have done to others, so will it be done to you: you will be paid back for all that your deeds deserve." 
Obadiah1:16 “Just as you have drunk and caroused on my sacred hill, so all the surrounding nations will drink continually from my bitter cup of judgment. They will drink and drink and gulp it down, but they will stagger and be destroyed.”" 
Obadiah1:17 “But on Mount Zion a remnant will escape, for that place will be a reconsecrated sanctuary. And Jacob’s tribes will possess what is rightfully theirs by inheritance." 
Obadiah1:18 Then the people of Judah will be a fire, the people of Israel a flame, and the people of Esau like stubble. They will set them on fire and consume them, and there will be no survivors from Esau’s descendants. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Obadiah1:19 People from southern Judah will capture Edom; those from the western foothills will occupy Philistia; Israelites will take back the territory of Ephraim and Samaria; and the people of Benjamin will possess Gilead. 
Obadiah1:20 The company of exiles from among the people of Israel will possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath while the exiles from Jerusalem now in Sardis will occupy the cities of southern Judah. 
Obadiah1:21 Victorious deliverers will go out from Mount Zion to rule over the land of Edom, and the kingdom will be Yahweh ’s." 
Jonah1:1 One day Yahweh revealed to Jonah, Amittai’s son, this message:" 
Jonah1:2 “Arise! Leave at once for the great city of Nineveh and proclaim judgment against her, for the wickedness of her people is staring me in the face.”" 
Jonah1:3 But Jonah bolted and ran in the opposite direction, determined to run away from the presence of Yahweh. He went down to the coastal city of Joppa and found a ship bound for Tarshish. He paid his fare, went down into the hold of the ship, and set sail for Tarshish to flee from the presence of Yahweh." 
Jonah1:4 But Yahweh unleashed a powerful, violent wind on the sea. The ship was caught in such a great tempest that it was in jeopardy of shattering." 
Jonah1:5 The sailors were terrified. Each of them began to call on his own god for help. In order to lighten the ship they hurled the cargo and tackle overboard. Jonah, however, had gone down below and lain down in the hold and was fast asleep." 
Jonah1:6 The captain went below and asked Jonah, “How can you be sleeping so soundly at a time like this? Get up! Call on your god! Maybe he will feel sorry for us and not leave us to die.”" 
Jonah1:7 Then the sailors said to each other, “Come on. Let’s cast lots to find out who is to blame for bringing us this calamity.” They cast lots, and the lot pointed to Jonah." 
Jonah1:8 So they interrogated him. “Tell us,” they said, “what is the purpose of your journey? Where do you come from? What is your country, and who are your people?”" 
Jonah1:9 “I’m a Hebrew,” he replied. “I worship the God of heaven, the Creator of both sea and dry land. His name is Yahweh.”" 
Jonah1:10 Jonah added, “ I am his prophet, but I’m trying to escape from him.” Hearing this, the sailors were gripped with fear and said, “What terrible thing have you done?" 
Jonah1:11 What can we do to you to make the sea calm down for us?” Even as they spoke, the storm and waves were getting worse and worse." 
Jonah1:12 Then Jonah said, “It’s all my fault that you are caught in this violent storm. So just pick me up and throw me into the sea, and it will calm down for you.”" 
Jonah1:13 Reluctant to sacrifice Jonah, the sailors rowed frantically trying to return to shore, but they got nowhere. All the while, the sea was raging even wilder than before." 
Jonah1:14 Losing hope, they began to pray to Yahweh and said, “Please, Yahweh, God of Jonah, don’t let us perish on account of Jonah. And don’t hold it against us for throwing this man overboard. For you, Yahweh, have acted in accordance with your will.”" 
Jonah1:15 So the sailors took hold of Jonah and tossed him into the foaming sea. Then all at once, the sea stopped raging." 
Jonah1:16 Awestruck, the men were gripped with the fear of Yahweh, and they made vows and offered sacrifices to Jonah’s God, Yahweh." 
Jonah1:17 Meanwhile, Yahweh directed a huge fish to be at that very spot in order to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was kept alive in the stomach of the fish for three days and three nights." 
Jonah2:1 This is Jonah’s prayer to Yahweh, his God, from out of the darkness inside the huge fish:" 
Jonah2:2 “I called out to Yahweh from a place of total desperation and he answered me. From inside the belly of Sheol I cried out, and you heard my voice." 
Jonah2:3 The waters closed in all around me; all your mighty waves and currents crashed over me. For you cast me into the deep, and I sank down to the bottom of the sea." 
Jonah2:4 I actually assumed that you had banished me from your sight. Yet, I know that I will one day gaze again upon your holy temple." 
Jonah2:5 The waters rose to choke me to death. The sea was closing in around me— seaweed tightened around my head. 
Jonah2:6 I sank down into the abyss, to the roots of the mountains, where the barred gates of that realm would lock me in forever. But you, Yahweh, are my God; you raised my life from the pit." 
Jonah2:7 When my life was ebbing away, my thoughts turned toward you. My cries rose before you in your holy, heavenly temple, and my prayer entered your heart, Yahweh." 
Jonah2:8 It’s true —some abandon faithful love to you by worshiping worthless idols. 
Jonah2:9 But I will sing songs of praise and offer my sacrifices to you. I will keep every vow I’ve made to you, Yahweh, for salvation comes only from you.”" 
Jonah2:10 So Yahweh spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah onto the dry land." 
Jonah3:1 Yahweh spoke to the prophet Jonah for the second time. 
Jonah3:2 “Arise!” he said. “Leave at once for the great city of Nineveh and preach to the people the message I give you.” 
Jonah3:3 This time, Jonah set out for Nineveh in obedience to the word of Yahweh. Now Nineveh was a very important city to God. It took three days to traverse the entire city." 
Jonah3:4 When Jonah entered the city, he walked a day’s journey and began to preach: “ God will destroy this city in forty days!”" 
Jonah3:5 The people of Nineveh believed Jonah’s message and turned to God. To show they had repented, they called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least of them." 
Jonah3:6 When the news reached the king of Nineveh, he arose from his throne, took off his royal robe, put on sackcloth, and sat down in ashes." 
Jonah3:7 He then issued this proclamation: “People of Nineveh, by decree of the king and his nobles, no person or animal, herd or flock, may eat anything; they must not consume any food or water." 
Jonah3:8 Each of you must cover yourself and your livestock with burlap and call on God with all your might. Everyone must turn away from his or her evil ways and violent behavior. 
Jonah3:9 Who knows? Perhaps God may show us mercy and be willing to change his mind. Perhaps he will relent and turn from unleashing his fierce anger so that we will not die.” 
Jonah3:10 When God saw their sincere efforts to turn from their wicked ways, he decided not to punish the people of Nineveh and did not bring upon them the disaster he said would come." 
Jonah4:1 Jonah was extremely upset that God would show mercy to Nineveh. Indignant, he fell into a rage." 
Jonah4:2 He prayed to Yahweh and said, “God, I knew this is what would happen even before I left home. For I know that you are a tender, compassionate God, who is extremely patient, rich in faithful love. And I know you are always ready to relent from inflicting disaster. That was why I attempted to flee to Tarshish." 
Jonah4:3 So now, Yahweh, please take my life, for death seems better to me than life.”" 
Jonah4:4 Yahweh replied, “What good reason do you have to be so angry?”" 
Jonah4:5 Then Jonah went out east of Nineveh, where he made himself a makeshift shelter. He sat there under its shade waiting to see what would happen to the city." 
Jonah4:6 Now Lord Yahweh arranged for a gourd plant to grow up over Jonah to provide him shade to rest in and to soothe his sour demeanor. Jonah was thrilled with the plant. 
Jonah4:7 But at dawn the next day, God sent a worm to chew through the plant—and it withered." 
Jonah4:8 As the sun rose into the sky, God sent a scorching east wind. The wind and blazing sun beat down so hard on Jonah’s head that he was starting to faint. So he begged God to end his life, saying, “I’m better off dead than alive.”" 
Jonah4:9 God said to Jonah, “Are you right to be so angry about the plant that gave you shade?” He replied, “I have every right to be angry, angry enough to die!”" 
Jonah4:10 Yahweh replied, “You are concerned for the vine, which you did not plant, nor did you do anything to make it grow. It sprang up one night and died the next." 
Jonah4:11 Should I not have compassion for the great city of Nineveh, in which there are more than 120,000 people who cannot tell their right hand from their left, to say nothing of all the animals?”" 
Micah1:1 This is the prophetic message Yahweh revealed to Micah of Moresheth. He delivered these prophecies during the reigns of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. These are his supernatural visions concerning Samaria and Jerusalem." 
Micah1:2 Listen, you peoples—all of you! Earth, pay attention —and everyone on it. From his holy temple, the Lord Yahweh himself will testify against you." 
Micah1:3 For behold, Yahweh is leaving his dwelling place. Here he comes to tread upon the high places of the land." 
Micah1:4 Mountains melt beneath his feet, like wax melting near a raging fire. Valleys are split wide open, like water pouring down a steep slope." 
Micah1:5 All of this is because of the rebellion of Jacob’s tribes, the sin of the people of Israel. So who is to blame for the rebellion of Jacob? Is it not the people of Samaria? Who is to blame for the idolatry of the high places of Judah? Is it not the people of Jerusalem?" 
Micah1:6 “So I will wrestle Samaria to the ground, and she will become nothing more than an open field for planting vines. I will roll the stones of her buildings down into the valley until I have laid bare her foundations." 
Micah1:7 I will hammer to pieces all her gilded pagan idols, all the gifts given to her sacred prostitutes will be scorched by fire. I will turn all her precious idols into a pile of rubble. For she—Samaria—gathered her treasured idols as a prostitute collects her fees, and now these idols will become a prostitute’s wages again.”" 
Micah1:8 I will mourn and wail because of this. I will walk around barefoot and bare to show my sorrow. I will howl like a jackal and mourn like an owl. 
Micah1:9 For her wound is incurable, and her infection is spreading to Judah. It has even reached the gateway of my people, to Jerusalem itself." 
Micah1:10 Show no tears in Showtown (Gath). People of Dusty House (Beth Leaphrah), wallow in the dust of your despair!" 
Micah1:11 You’ll take a different path, Glamour-Girl-Town (Shaphir); you’ll go into exile naked and ashamed. You citizens of Outbound City (Zaanan) are stuck at home. Your next-door neighbor (Beth Ezel) is in mourning and will no longer be able to help you." 
Micah1:12 The women of Bitterville (Maroth) writhed in labor pains, hoping for good to come. Instead, Yahweh sent down disaster all the way to the gates of Jerusalem itself." 
Micah1:13 Start up your chariots, you people of Ponytown (Lachish), for the sin of the daughter of Zion can be traced back to you, where Israel’s sin began." 
Micah1:14 People of Judah, give gifts to Moresheth Gath, as you would to a daughter who is leaving home to be married. The Domiciles of Deception (Beth Achzib) will deceive the kings of Israel." 
Micah1:15 People of Mareshah, Yahweh will again bring a conqueror against you, and the glory of Israel will flee to the cave of Adullam." 
Micah1:16 Cut off your hair and make yourselves bald, for your delightful children are taken away. Make yourselves as bald as a vulture, for your children have been taken away from you into exile." 
Micah2:1 Disaster is ahead for those who plot evil. They’re as good as dead! Disaster is ahead for those who scheme as they lie on their bed. No sooner is it dawn than they act on their plan just because they can. 
Micah2:2 They covet someone’s field and seize it for themselves, and they take over his house as well. They defraud a man of his home and another man of his inheritance." 
Micah2:3 So here’s what Yahweh has to say about that: “Now I am the one plotting a disaster for those who plot to defraud others, a disaster from which you cannot escape. You will no longer walk with heads held high, for a catastrophe will bring you low." 
Micah2:4 And when that time comes, people will adopt a taunting proverb about you and sing this mournful song to mock your sad experience: ‘We have lost everything! God has divided up our people’s lands with no one left to restore it to our hands. Our property has been seized and given to our captors—the traitors.’ ”" 
Micah2:5 Because of this, when Yahweh restores the land to his people, those corrupt leaders will have no stake in Yahweh ’s assembly nor have any part in the distribution of land." 
Micah2:6 They berate me continually. “Don’t prophesy,” they say to me. “Don’t keep prophesying on and on about these things! Disgrace will not overtake us.”" 
Micah2:7 Should Jacob’s descendants even be asking, “Is the Spirit of Yahweh really so short-tempered that he would do such things to us?” “When I speak, don’t my words produce good within the one who obeys them?" 
Micah2:8 But you wealthy oppressors of the poor have become like enemies attacking my people. When men return home from war and think they are finally safe at home, there you are, ready to snatch the coats off their backs as security for the money they owe you." 
Micah2:9 You wrongly evict the women of my people from the very homes they love, forever depriving their children of the honor of their inheritance." 
Micah2:10 Get up and get out! This is no longer your resting place. Because of this defilement, I will completely destroy you, and your destruction will be severe beyond measure." 
Micah2:11 If a lying windbag comes to deceive you, saying, ‘I prophesy wine and liquor will flow for you,’ he would be the ideal prophet for a people like this.”" 
Micah2:12 “I will regather the tribes of Jacob. Yes, I will regather the remnant of Israel. I will bring you together like sheep in a fold, like a flock within their pasture, a noisy, excited multitude." 
Micah2:13 “The Barrier-Breaker will lead them out into freedom. They will all break out, passing through the enemy’s gates. Their king will advance before their eyes with Yahweh himself leading the way!”" 
Micah3:1 Then I said, “Listen, you leaders of the tribes of Jacob, you princes among the people of Israel. Is it not your duty to see that justice prevails?" 
Micah3:2 Yet you hate what is good and love what is evil. You skin my people alive, pulling the flesh off their bones." 
Micah3:3 Like butchers, you tear the skin off my people. You break their bones and chop them up like stew meat for the pot. Like wild animals, you rip the flesh off their bones and devour my people." 
Micah3:4 Then you will cry out to him, but he will not answer your prayers. Yahweh will hide his face from you rulers because you have totally misused your power.”" 
Micah3:5 Here is what Yahweh says against the prophets who lead my people so far from the truth: “So long as they pay you, you prophesy peace. But if they don’t, you threaten war." 
Micah3:6 So, darkness will close in around you, and you will receive no prophetic visions. A shroud of darkness will bring your predictions to an end. The sun will set for the prophets, and the daylight will go dark for them." 
Micah3:7 Then shame will silence the seers. Confusion will cover those who predict the future. Humiliated, they will all put their hands over their mouths because there is no word from God.”" 
Micah3:8 Not so with me, for I am full of power! Yahweh ’s breath fills me with a sense of justice and courage to expose the rebellion of Jacob’s tribes and the sin of the people of Israel." 
Micah3:9 Now hear this, you leaders of the tribes of Jacob, you princes of the people of Israel: You hate justice and distort right into wrong." 
Micah3:10 Indeed, you build up Zion and Jerusalem but upon an immoral foundation of murder and malice." 
Micah3:11 Her judges render verdicts for the highest bidder, her priests preach for a price, her prophets prophesy for a fee, and yet they pretend to depend upon Yahweh. “Isn’t Yahweh on our side?” they say. “How could any disaster come upon us?”" 
Micah3:12 That is why, thanks to you, Zion will return to farmland, Jerusalem to a pile of rubble, and the Temple Mount will be deserted — overgrown with thickets." 
Micah4:1 In the future, the mountain of Yahweh ’s temple will be raised up as the head of the mountains, towering over all the hills. A sparkling stream of every nation will flow into it." 
Micah4:2 Many peoples will come and say, “Everyone, come! Let’s go up higher to Yahweh ’s mountain, to the house of Jacob’s God; then he can teach us his ways, and we can walk in his paths.” Zion will be the center of instruction, and the word of Yahweh will go out from Jerusalem." 
Micah4:3 He will judge fairly between strong, distant nations and settle disputes among many peoples. The swords they used against each other they will beat into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. No nation will take up weapons against another, nor will they prepare for war anymore." 
Micah4:4 But everyone will relax under their own fig trees and vineyards with no one to trouble them. For Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has decreed it." 
Micah4:5 Though all the nations walk in the name of their own gods, we will walk in the name of Yahweh, our God, forever and ever." 
Micah4:6 I, Yahweh, declare: “In that day of hope I will gather the lame and bring together the wandering outcasts and those whom I have bruised." 
Micah4:7 I will make a new beginning with those who are crippled and far from home. My remnant will be transformed into a mighty nation. And I, Yahweh, will reign over them on Mount Zion from now and throughout eternity." 
Micah4:8 “And to you, Tower of the Flock, where the daughter of Zion is lifted up, your royal dominion will arrive. His kingship will come to you, Daughter Jerusalem.”" 
Micah4:9 Why are you wailing? Why are you writhing like a woman in labor? Have you no king to help you? And your wise leader, has he perished?" 
Micah4:10 Groan and writhe in anguish, like a woman in hard labor, daughter of Zion, for now, you must leave the city and live out in the open field. Off to Babylon you must go! Yet, one day you will be rescued from there, for Yahweh will deliver you from the clutches of your enemies." 
Micah4:11 Many nations have now gathered to attack you. They say, “Let’s destroy Jerusalem so that we can gloat over capturing Zion.”" 
Micah4:12 But they do not know Yahweh ’s plans, and they do not understand his strategy: he has brought them together to punish them, like grain is brought to be beaten on the threshing floor to separate the good from the worthless." 
Micah4:13 “Arise, start your threshing, daughter of Zion, for I will make you strong as a bull with iron horns and bronze hooves so that you can crush many peoples. And you must devote to Yahweh what they have stolen and bring their wealth to me, the Lord of the whole earth.”" 
Micah5:1 Now you are walled in. They have laid siege against us. They smack the ruler of Israel’s face with a rod. 
Micah5:2 “But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, so small among the clans of Judah, from your people will come a ruler who will rule Israel for me. He will burst forth from the first sunrise from the days of eternity!”" 
Micah5:3 Therefore, Yahweh will hand Israel over to her enemies until the labor pains are over and the child is born. And then the remnant of his brothers in exile will be reunited with the Israelites." 
Micah5:4 He will take his stand and will lead and feed his flock with the strength that comes from Yahweh and with the majesty of the name of his God. With this shepherd, they will live in safety, for his greatness will extend to the ends of the earth." 
Micah5:5 He himself will be their peace. When the Assyrian army sets foot on our soil to invade our land, we will raise up more than enough mighty captains to conquer them." 
Micah5:6 They will shepherd the Assyrians with the sword, the land of Nimrod with the drawn sword. And Yahweh will deliver us from the Assyrians, when they invade our land and tread on our territory." 
Micah5:7 Then the remnant of Jacob will be scattered among many peoples. They will be like the refreshing dew from Yahweh, like raindrops on the meadows, which do not wait on man’s command and are beyond human control." 
Micah5:8 Then the scattered remnant of Jacob will live among the nations. They will be like lions among the animals of the forest, like fierce lions among flocks of sheep, they will pounce on their prey with no one to rescue." 
Micah5:9 You will be victorious over your foes, and all your enemies will be torn to pieces." 
Micah5:10 “When that day comes,” declares Yahweh, “I will destroy your horses and demolish your chariots." 
Micah5:11 I will destroy the cities of your country and tear down all your strongholds. 
Micah5:12 I will dismantle the witchcraft in your land, and you will no longer cast spells." 
Micah5:13 I shall tear away your idols and your sacred stone pillars from among you. You will no longer worship things that your own hands have made. 
Micah5:14 I will uproot your sacred poles and level your cities. 
Micah5:15 I will punish with furious anger the nations who have disobeyed me.” 
Micah6:1 Now listen to what Yahweh says: “Stand up and state your case. The mountains will be your witnesses, so let the hills hear your defense." 
Micah6:2 Listen, mountains, to Yahweh ’s accusation; pay attention, you enduring foundations of the earth, for I, Yahweh, have an indictment against my people, and I will prosecute my case against Israel." 
Micah6:3 My people, what have I done to deserve your neglect? How have I made you tired of me? Answer me!" 
Micah6:4 Did I not rescue you from Egypt and ransom you from slavery? I sent Moses, Aaron, and Miriam to lead you." 
Micah6:5 Please remember this, my people: King Balak of Moab planned to curse you, and how did the prophet Balaam son of Beor answer him? He spoke Yahweh ’s blessing over you! Remember how I parted the Jordan so that you could cross over from Acacia to Gilgal. Now you should know through all my saving acts that I have treated you fairly.”" 
Micah6:6 What should I bring when I enter Yahweh ’s presence and bow down before God Most High? Should I approach him with burnt offerings, with year-old calves to sacrifice?" 
Micah6:7 Will he be pleased with thousands of rams and with endless streams of olive oil? Should I offer him my firstborn for my wrongdoing, my own offspring for the sins of my life?" 
Micah6:8 No! Listen, O Adam’s offspring, Yahweh has made it plain to you what is best. He has shown you what he really is longing for from you— only to promote justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God." 
Micah6:9 Yahweh ’s voice is calling out to the city. Wise is the one who fears the name of Yahweh. “So pay attention, O tribe, to the one who called you together!" 
Micah6:10 Can I overlook the treasures that fill the homes of evil people who cheated others? They use false measures, which I despise." 
Micah6:11 Do you really expect me to forgive those who cheat others with a bag of wrong weights and dishonest scales? 
Micah6:12 The wealthy are steeped in violence, and the people are liars and speak deceitfully." 
Micah6:13 As for me, I will deal you a crippling blow to ruin you for your sins." 
Micah6:14 You will eat but not be satisfied; you will still be hungry. You will acquire but save nothing because what you save, I will send your enemies to destroy." 
Micah6:15 You will plant crops but not reap a harvest, press olives for its oil and never be able to rub it on yourselves, and tread grapes but never drink the wine." 
Micah6:16 For you live by the standards of the dynasty of Omri and follow the evil ways of Ahab and his household. Because you walk after their example, you force me to make an example out of you! I will hand you over to ruin and make you a laughingstock among the nations. People everywhere will treat you with contempt.”" 
Micah7:1 I’m so depressed and disappointed, like a hungry man who went to the field after the harvest had been gathered and found nothing remaining, not even the gleanings— nor a single cluster of grapes nor any of those firstfruit figs I love." 
Micah7:2 The godly have vanished from the land: there is not a decent person left. They are all out for each other’s blood, they hunt each other with a net." 
Micah7:3 Concerning evil, both hands do it well. Officials and judges ask for bribes, the man in power pronounces whatever he pleases, and the prominent plot as one." 
Micah7:4 The best and brightest is like a briar bush, the most honest of them like a thorn hedge. Now here comes the punishment your prophets proclaimed. Confusion confronts you!" 
Micah7:5 Don’t dare to trust in a neighbor or place your confidence in a friend. Watch your words even with the wife you love. 
Micah7:6 For the son insults his father, the daughter rebels against her mother, and the daughter-in-law quarrels with her mother-in-law. One’s enemies come from within your own household." 
Micah7:7 But as for me, I will keep watching for Yahweh to break through. I will wait for the God who will save me, and I know my God will hear my cry." 
Micah7:8 Listen, my enemy. Don’t gloat over me when I fall, for I will get back up even stronger. Whenever I feel darkness around me, Yahweh himself will be the light that surrounds me." 
Micah7:9 I must endure Yahweh ’s anger for a while because I have sinned against him. Yet he will still defend my cause and right every wrong done to me. He will expose it all and bring me out into the light, and I will experience firsthand his vindication." 
Micah7:10 When my enemy sees this, she will be disgraced and covered with shame— she who sneered, “Where is this God of yours, Yahweh?” I’ll see it with my own eyes as she is trampled down like mud in the streets." 
Micah7:11 What a day that will be! A day for rebuilding your walls! A day for expanding your borders! 
Micah7:12 A day when people come to you from everywhere— from the cities of Assyria, Egypt, and Tyre and all the way from the river Euphrates, from across the seas, and from every mountainous land." 
Micah7:13 Those lands will become desolate because of the corruption of their inhabitants. 
Micah7:14 Our kind Shepherd, watch over us, the flock that is your special inheritance. With your staff, lead your people to pasture. For we are like a flock confined to live in a forest with meadowland all around us. Let us graze again in the fertile fields of Bashan and Gilead as in the days of old." 
Micah7:15 “I will show you mighty miracles as in the days when you came out of Egypt.” 
Micah7:16 When the nations see your miracles, they will be ashamed, seeing that their power counts for nothing. They will put their hands over their mouths, too dumbfounded by your might to even speak, and their ears will become deaf." 
Micah7:17 Let them lick the dust like snakes, like the crawling things of the earth. Let them come slinking out of their strongholds, trembling in terror before you, Yahweh." 
Micah7:18 Who is a merciful God like you? Your grace wipes the slate clean of guilt and pardons the rebellion of the remnant of your people. You don’t hold your anger against us forever, but you delight in showing faithful, tender love." 
Micah7:19 Once more we ask: have tender mercy on us, tread our iniquities under your feet, and hurl all our sins to the bottom of the sea." 
Micah7:20 You will demonstrate endless faithfulness to Jacob’s tribes and to Abraham’s descendants your constant love, just like you swore to our ancestors in ancient times." 
Nahum1:1 This is the book of the vision of Nahum who was from the village of Elkosh. A prophecy concerning Nineveh: 
Nahum1:2 Yahweh is a God who tolerates no rivals. Lord Yahweh will take vengeance on his foes. He punishes his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies. 
Nahum1:3 Yahweh is very slow to anger but so great in power; Yahweh will not let the guilty go unpunished. He marches out in the whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet." 
Nahum1:4 He rebukes the sea and dries it up and makes all the rivers run dry. At his rebuke, the lush meadows of Bashan and Carmel wither; the flowering fields of Lebanon fade." 
Nahum1:5 In his presence, the mountains quake and the hills melt away. When he appears, the earth heaves, and the world and all who dwell in it are laid waste." 
Nahum1:6 Who can stand before an angry God? Who can face his fiery fury? When his wrath erupts, it pours out like lava, and boulders are broken to bits as he approaches." 
Nahum1:7 The goodness of Yahweh is beyond belief! For when trouble comes, we run into his heart and hide. He always cares for those who seek refuge in him." 
Nahum1:8 But with an overwhelming flood, he will make a complete end of Nineveh, and darkness will overtake his enemies." 
Nahum1:9 Whatever evil plot you hatch against Yahweh, he will so completely thwart that it will not rise up a second time." 
Nahum1:10 They will be like drunkards from their carousing— like entangled thorns, they will be consumed as dry stubble." 
Nahum1:11 From you, Nineveh, came one who plotted evil against Yahweh, a wicked, worthless strategist." 
Nahum1:12 Yahweh says, “Although your enemies are many and secure in their alliances, they will nonetheless be mowed down and pass away. Though I have afflicted you, my people, I will not do it again." 
Nahum1:13 And now I will break his yoke of bondage from your neck and tear away your shackles of Assyrian oppression.” 
Nahum1:14 Yahweh has decreed against you, Nineveh: “Your dynasty is over! Every idol in the temple of your gods I will destroy, your carved and engraved idols. I will dig your grave, for you are nothing to me.”" 
Nahum1:15 What a beautiful sight to behold— the precious feet of the messenger coming over the mountains to announce good news and to proclaim peace! People of Judah, celebrate your feasts, keep your solemn promises to God, for the wicked one will never pass through you again; he is completely cut off." 
Nahum2:1 Nineveh, an attacker is poised to advance against you. Place your guards along the top of the walls; set lookouts on the road. Go ahead, get ready for battle; gather all your forces, but it will be in vain." 
Nahum2:2 For Yahweh is about to restore the majesty of Jacob and Israel her glory. For you have plundered everything and ruined their vineyards. 
Nahum2:3 The invading soldiers’ shields are scarlet, each warrior robed in red. The metal of the Babylonian chariots gleams like fire on the day they are made ready for battle, and the wooden spears are brandished in anticipation." 
Nahum2:4 The chariots race madly through the streets of Nineveh; they dash wildly through the public squares, gleaming like torches, darting like lightning." 
Nahum2:5 The king of Assyria summons his elite commanders, but they stumble while attempting to advance. The attackers run swiftly to the city wall; the protective canopy for the battering ram is set up." 
Nahum2:6 The floodgates are opened; the royal palace is inundated by the surging torrent and collapses. 
Nahum2:7 Nineveh is stripped, taken captive, and carried into exile. Her maidservants moan like doves and beat their breasts in sorrow." 
Nahum2:8 The people rush out of Nineveh like water pours out of a broken dam. The officers shout, “Stop! Stop!” but no one turns back." 
Nahum2:9 Plunder the silver, plunder the gold! Look! There is no end of the treasure — heaps of every precious thing." 
Nahum2:10 Desolation! Devastation! Destruction! Hearts melting, knees knocking, stomachs churning, faces turning pale." 
Nahum2:11 What has happened now to the lions’ den where the fierce lions were fed, where the lion and lioness once lived, where the cubs frolicked, cozy and fearless?" 
Nahum2:12 Like a lion, Assyria once killed his prey and tore it to pieces, filling his cave with meat for his mate and her cubs." 
Nahum2:13 “Behold, I am your enemy,” declares Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “I will burn your chariots to ashes, and the sword will slaughter your young lions. No longer will you prey upon the land, and your messengers will announce no more victories.”" 
Nahum3:1 Doomed is the city of bloodshed, embodiment of treachery and thievery, where the murdering never stops!" 
Nahum3:2 Listen to the crack of the whip, the rumble of the chariot wheels, the thunder of horses’ hooves, and charging chariots." 
Nahum3:3 Horsemen advancing, gleaming swords and glistening spears, hosts of slain, heaps of corpses, dead bodies, too many to count. People stumble over the carcasses." 
Nahum3:4 This is because you lustfully lured the nations like a wanton whore. You acted so gracefully, yet you are a mistress of witchcraft. You sold entire nations into the sex trade and bewitched whole families into slavery." 
Nahum3:5 Behold, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declares to you: “I am your enemy! I will lift up your skirt over your face, and I will make nations gawk at your nakedness and kingdoms at your shame." 
Nahum3:6 I will pelt you with filth and make you an object of scorn and will treat you with contempt. 
Nahum3:7 And all who look at you will turn their backs on you and say, ‘Poor Nineveh is a pile of rubble; who will grieve for you? Who will have sympathy for you?’ ”" 
Nahum3:8 Are you any better than Thebes, which once sat by the Nile surrounded by water, her moat of defense, a mighty river?" 
Nahum3:9 Ethiopia and Egypt were her endless strength; Somalia and Libya were her helpful allies. 
Nahum3:10 Yet the people of Thebes became exiles and were carried off into captivity. Their infants were dashed to pieces on every street corner. They cast lots for her honored men— all the best and brightest were bound in chains and taken captive. 
Nahum3:11 You will fall into a drunken stupor. You will go into hiding and seek refuge from the enemy. 
Nahum3:12 All your fortified cities are like fig trees with first-ripe figs: shake the tree and they fall right into the open mouth of the eater. 
Nahum3:13 Behold, all who remain in the midst of your cities are the women. The borders of your land are wide open to your enemies. Fire will devour your fortresses." 
Nahum3:14 Go ahead and draw plenty of water and prepare for the siege. Strengthen your defenses. Get mud, trample the clay, make more bricks." 
Nahum3:15 Yet the fire will devour you there. You will be slaughtered by the sword. It will consume you like locusts. You multiplied like hopping locusts and like swarming grasshoppers. 
Nahum3:16 Your merchants multiplied until they were more than the stars in the sky. Like locusts they stripped the land, spread their wings, and flew away." 
Nahum3:17 Your officials were as numerous as grasshoppers, your scribes like a swarm of locusts. On a cold day, they settle on the stone fences, but when the sun appears, they abandon you and fly away; no one knows where they are." 
Nahum3:18 Emperor of Assyria, your shepherds slumber, your nobles nod off to sleep soundly. All your people are like sheep scattered on the mountains with no one to bring them home." 
Nahum3:19 There is no remedy for your injuries; your wound is fatal. All who hear the news about you applaud for joy over your downfall. For whoever was untouched by your endless evil? 
Habakkuk1:1 This is the vision of Habakkuk the prophet: 
Habakkuk1:2 Yahweh, how long must I cry for help and you turn a deaf ear? My heart cries out, “Save us from this brutality!” but you do not save." 
Habakkuk1:3 Why do you make me stare at injustice? Why do you tolerate such trouble and wrongdoing? Destruction and violence surround me; strife and conflict are everywhere. 
Habakkuk1:4 Therefore, the law is not enforced, and so justice never prevails. The wicked overwhelm the righteous so that justice is perverted." 
Habakkuk1:5 “Look at the nations and observe— you’ll be stunned by what you see. For while you watch, I am about to do something so surprising in your days that you would not believe it even if you were told." 
Habakkuk1:6 I am raising up the Babylonians to punish you — that fierce and fearsome people, who sweep across the whole earth to seize houses they do not own." 
Habakkuk1:7 They are a feared and dreaded people. In their autocratic arrogance, they become a law unto themselves." 
Habakkuk1:8 Their horses are swifter than leopards, fiercer than wolves on the prowl at dusk. Their cavalry charges headlong; their horsemen come from afar. They soar swiftly like an eagle swooping to devour." 
Habakkuk1:9 Their armies invade, intent on violent conquest. Their terrifying hordes advance like a desert wind and gather prisoners as numerous as grains of sand." 
Habakkuk1:10 They are a people who mock kings and scoff at those in authority. They laugh at every stronghold; they pile up earthen siege ramps and capture them. 
Habakkuk1:11 Then they hurry on, like the wind that blows by and disappears. They are guilty men who worship their own power as if it were a god.”" 
Habakkuk1:12 Yahweh, have you not always been the everlasting God? You are my God, my Holy One, who will not die. Yahweh, you have appointed the Babylonians to execute judgment; my Rock, you have raised them up so they can punish us." 
Habakkuk1:13 Your eyes are so pure that you cannot stand the sight of evil; nor do you look on wickedness with favor. Why then do you tolerate the treacherous? Why are you so silent while sinners devour those more righteous than themselves? 
Habakkuk1:14 Have you only made us like fish, to be caught and killed by the wicked; like swarming schools of fish with no ruler?" 
Habakkuk1:15 Then the Babylonians pull them up with fishhooks and drag them in with their nets. Gleefully, they gather them up in their dragnets, shouting for joy over their catch." 
Habakkuk1:16 They even offer sacrifices and burn incense in honor of their nets, as if these were gods. For their nets enable them to live luxuriously and eat the finest food." 
Habakkuk1:17 How long will you allow them to fill and empty their throw nets? Will they forever destroy nations without mercy? 
Habakkuk2:1 I will wait at my watchpost and station myself on the tower. I’ll keep watching to see what he’ll say to me and consider the reply when he answers my argument. 
Habakkuk2:2 Then Yahweh replied: “Write down the revelation; write it legibly on clay tablets so that whoever reads it may run and explain it to others. 
Habakkuk2:3 The vision still awaits an appointed time; it speaks of the end and will not prove to be false. When the appointed time comes, it will happen with breathless haste. Although it may seem slow, just be patient and wait. For it will surely come right on time." 
Habakkuk2:4 “Look at the proud, puffed up with pride! They are crooked to the core. But the righteous will live by his faith.”" 
Habakkuk2:5 “Wealth is deceitful. The proud are full of themselves but have empty souls. They are as greedy as the grave. And just like death itself, they are never satisfied. They gather and grasp for themselves all the wealth of the nations and take all the people captive." 
Habakkuk2:6 “All these conquered nations will one day taunt them, saying, ‘You are doomed, you who pile up stolen goods! How long will you amass wealth by extortion?’" 
Habakkuk2:7 Will not your creditors suddenly arise? Will they not wake up and terrify you? Before you know it, you will become their prey." 
Habakkuk2:8 Since you have plundered many nations, the peoples who are left will plunder you. For you have killed many people; you have acted violently against lands and cities and everyone within them." 
Habakkuk2:9 “You are doomed, you who enrich your family by cheating others! You build your luxurious home on high thinking you’ll be safe from harm’s reach." 
Habakkuk2:10 Your schemes to ruin the lives and homes of others bring shame upon your own house. You are as good as dead for doing this. 
Habakkuk2:11 The stones of the wall will cry out to accuse you, and your wooden rafters will echo it." 
Habakkuk2:12 “You are doomed, you who build a city with bloodshed and establish it upon evil!" 
Habakkuk2:13 I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have decreed: The efforts of the nations are nothing but fuel for the fire, for all they have built will go up in smoke." 
Habakkuk2:14 Yet the entire earth is being filled with the revelation of the glory of Yahweh, just as waters fill the sea." 
Habakkuk2:15 “You are doomed, you who delight to mix drinks for neighbors, pouring wine from pitchers until they are dead drunk just so that you can gaze on their naked bodies!" 
Habakkuk2:16 Now you will be drunk with shame instead of honor. Now it is your turn! Drink your fill and let your nakedness be exposed. The cup of punishment that Yahweh holds in his right hand is now coming around to you. Your former glory will be covered with your vomit of disgrace. 
Habakkuk2:17 Your violent acts against Lebanon will violently overwhelm you. Since you killed its animals, animals will terrify you. For you have killed many people and acted violently against lands and cities and everyone in them." 
Habakkuk2:18 “You are doomed, you who say to a piece of dead wood, ‘Come to life!’ Or to lifeless stone, ‘Get up!’ Can something dead give revelation? Even though it is covered with gold and silver, there is no breath in it. Of what use is an idol carved by a craftsman? Or a metal image that gives misleading oracles? For the one who makes it trusts the work of human hands; a god that cannot even talk.”" 
Habakkuk2:19  
Habakkuk2:20 Yahweh is in his holy temple; let everyone on earth be silent before him. 
Habakkuk3:1 This is the passionate prayer of Habakkuk the prophet. 
Habakkuk3:2 Yahweh, I know the things that have made you famous. I am stunned when I consider your miracles. Do them again in our day! Let this generation experience your mighty deeds. Yahweh, show us your mercy even in this time of turmoil." 
Habakkuk3:3 God came from Teman, the Holy One from Mount Paran. The heavens blazed with the brightness of his glory while the earth echoed his praises." 
Habakkuk3:4 The brilliance of his glory is bright as the sun; twin bolts of lightning flash from his hand — there is the hiding place of his power. 
Habakkuk3:5 A plague marched in front of him; a consuming pestilence followed at his heels. 
Habakkuk3:6 When he stood up, the earth shook. At his glance, nations trembled, mountains crumbled, and age-old hills collapsed, but his paths are everlasting." 
Habakkuk3:7 In my vision, I saw the tents of Cushan trembling in distress and the tent curtains of the Midianites shaking in anguish." 
Habakkuk3:8 Yahweh, was it the rivers that made you angry or stirred up your rage? Was it the sea that made you furious when you rode your horses and chariots of salvation?" 
Habakkuk3:9 Your bow is strung and ready for action, and with a word, you commission your arrows to hit their mark. You carved open the earth with rivers." 
Habakkuk3:10 The mountains saw you and trembled. Torrential rains flooded the earth; the ocean depths roared and lifted their waves on high. 
Habakkuk3:11 Sun and moon stood still in the sky when your speeding arrows flashed and your glittering spear gleamed. 
Habakkuk3:12 In your fury you marched across the earth, and in your anger you trampled the nations." 
Habakkuk3:13 You came to save your people, to win the victory with your Messiah. You crushed the head of the house of wickedness and stripped him from head to toe." 
Habakkuk3:14 You pierced his head with his own arrows when his warriors stormed out to scatter us, gloating as they slaughtered their wretched victims in hiding." 
Habakkuk3:15 You trampled the sea with your horses, churning the great waters." 
Habakkuk3:16 I hear all this, and my heart pounds; my teeth chatter with fear at the sound. My body goes limp, and my legs tremble. Yet my heart quietly rests. I know the day of trouble is ahead for the people invading us." 
Habakkuk3:17 Even if my fig trees do not blossom and my vines grow no grapes, if my olive crop fails and my fields produce no harvest, and even if all my sheep die and I’m left with no cattle in my barn," 
Habakkuk3:18 I still have Yahweh, and I will rejoice in him. Yes, I will dance with joy no matter what, for I have a Savior-God!" 
Habakkuk3:19 Yahweh is the Lord of my strength; he makes my feet sure-footed as a deer bounding upon the high places. These are the lyrics for the conductor of my string ensemble. 
Zephaniah1:1 This is the prophetic message Yahweh gave to Zephaniah son of Cushi, grandson of Gedaliah, great-grandson of Amariah, great-great-grandson of Hezekiah. Zephaniah received this message during the time when Josiah, the son of Amon, ruled Judah." 
Zephaniah1:2 “I, Yahweh, declare that I will certainly sweep away every living thing from the land— animals and humans, birds and fish. I will topple the wicked and their idols and sweep away man from the land.”" 
Zephaniah1:3  
Zephaniah1:4 “I will punish Judah and all who live in Jerusalem. I will wipe out every trace of Baal from the land along with the names of the pagan priests or any priest who has turned away from me. 
Zephaniah1:5 I will punish those who bow down on their rooftops to worship the sun, moon, and stars and those with divided loyalties who bow before Yahweh and swear allegiance to me but also swear their oaths in the name of their king." 
Zephaniah1:6 I, Yahweh, will punish those who have turned their back on me, who do not seek me nor pray for me to guide them.”" 
Zephaniah1:7 Be silent before the Lord God, for the day of Yahweh is near. “I have prepared a sacrifice and have consecrated my invited guests." 
Zephaniah1:8 On the day of Yahweh ’s sacrifice, I will punish the royal family, your officials, and all who dress like pagan priests." 
Zephaniah1:9 At that time, I will punish all who worship Dagon and fill the palace of their rulers with violence and deception." 
Zephaniah1:10 “I, Yahweh, declare: A cry for help will be heard from the Fish Gate in Jerusalem, wailing from the wealthier, newer part of the city. A loud crash will echo from the hills." 
Zephaniah1:11 Wail, you who live in the market area because all the merchants will be dead, and those who weigh out silver will be wiped out." 
Zephaniah1:12 “When that time comes, I will search Jerusalem with lamps and punish those stagnating in their self-satisfied smugness. They say in their hearts, ‘ Yahweh is aloof and can do nothing for us, either good or bad.’" 
Zephaniah1:13 Yet all their hoarded wealth will be looted and their houses leveled. They will build houses but never move in, plant vineyards but never drink the wine.”" 
Zephaniah1:14 The great day of Yahweh is near, right around the corner, closer than you think and coming fast. How bitter will be the sound of the day of Yahweh, when even the brave warriors weep in anguish." 
Zephaniah1:15 It will be a day of wrath, a day of terror and trouble, a day of desolation and distress, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness," 
Zephaniah1:16 a day of shofar blasts and battle shouts against fortified cities and all the lofty towers. 
Zephaniah1:17 “I will bring such distress on people that they will grope their way like the blind for having sinned against me. Their blood will be poured out like dust, yes, their flesh like dung." 
Zephaniah1:18 On that day, I will display my great anger, and none of their silver or gold will save them. My avenging zeal will burn like a fire on that day, to consume the entire land. For I will bring a terrible and sudden end that will destroy everyone living in the land.”" 
Zephaniah2:1 Go ahead and gather yourselves together, you shameless people! Gather yourselves together and turn back to Yahweh" 
Zephaniah2:2 before the appointed time arrives. Repent before you are blown away like chaff, which is swept away in a day, before Yahweh pours out on you his fiery anger— the day of Yahweh ’s burning fury." 
Zephaniah2:3 All who are meek and humble on earth, seek the mercy of Yahweh. All who obey his commands, pursue righteousness and discover true humility. For maybe, just maybe, Yahweh will shelter you on the day of his anger." 
Zephaniah2:4 “For Gaza will be deserted, and Ashkelon devastated. Ashdod will be driven out in broad daylight, and Ekron left desolate." 
Zephaniah2:5 Doom to you who live on the seacoast, to the nation of Cherethites! And Canaan, land of the Philistines, the word of Yahweh is bad news for you. I will destroy and annihilate you." 
Zephaniah2:6 Your coastal lands will be reduced to pastureland, to grazing grounds for shepherds and folds for flocks." 
Zephaniah2:7 Your land will be occupied by the remnant of the people of Judah. During the day, they will find pasture by the sea, and at night, they will rest in the houses of Ashkelon. Yahweh their God will care for them, and make them prosper again.”" 
Zephaniah2:8 “I, Yahweh, have heard the crude taunts of Moab and the vile insults of the Ammonites as they scorned my people and boasted that they would annex the land of Judah." 
Zephaniah2:9 For as surely as I live, I, Yahweh, God of Israel, Commander of Angel Armies, decree: Moab will become like Sodom and the Ammonites like Gomorrah. The remnant of my people will plunder them; the survivors of my nation will possess them. Their lands will become barren forever, a land of nothing but salt pits and piles of weeds." 
Zephaniah2:10 This will be the price of their pride, of having taunted and boasted against the people of Yahweh, who commands angel armies." 
Zephaniah2:11 I, Yahweh, will be terrifying to them, for I will make all the gods of the earth vanish. And the people of every nation will bow down and worship me wherever they live.”" 
Zephaniah2:12 “You Ethiopians, too, will be killed by my sword.”" 
Zephaniah2:13 “I will attack the northern land of Assyria and destroy it all. Nineveh will be left as desolate and dry as a desert. 
Zephaniah2:14 It will be nothing more than a resting place for flocks and herds, along with all creatures of every kind. The vulture and owl will nest at night in its ruins. Owls will hoot from the windows, and crows will caw in the doorways— for all their once-fancy cedar woodwork will be exposed to the elements." 
Zephaniah2:15 This is the once-proud city, living so happy and carefree and thinking to herself, ‘I am so amazing, and I have no rival!’ Yet look at her now! What has she become? Nothing but a pile of rubble and a lair for wild beasts. Everyone who passes by will hiss with scorn and shake their fists.”" 
Zephaniah3:1 Doomed is the filthy and foul city— the city of oppression! 
Zephaniah3:2 Her people do not listen to the voice of God and will not accept correction. They do not trust in Yahweh anymore and do not want a close relationship with their God. 
Zephaniah3:3 Her rulers are roaring lions, and her judges are ravenous wolves who hunt in the evening, too greedy to leave even a bone till the morning." 
Zephaniah3:4 Her prophets are proud, reckless impostors. Her priests profane the holy place and openly break the Law." 
Zephaniah3:5 In spite of all this, Yahweh the Righteous resides in Jerusalem, and all he does is just and true. Morning by morning, he brings justice to light, and day by day, he never fails. Yet the wicked are shameless." 
Zephaniah3:6 “I have destroyed proud nations and toppled their high towers. I filled their streets with rubble so no one walks through them. Their cities have been demolished. Everyone is gone. Not one is left. 
Zephaniah3:7 I thought, ‘Certainly, now you will revere me. Now you will yield to my correction.’ Then I would not need to punish them again and destroy their homes. But no, they were just as eager to do whatever was evil." 
Zephaniah3:8 “So wait patiently for me,” declares Yahweh. “Wait for the day when I rise to seize the prey. For I have determined to gather the nations and assemble the kingdoms so that they will experience my fury and know how great my anger is. For the land will be consumed by the fire of my avenging zeal.”" 
Zephaniah3:9 “For then I will change the impure speech of all the people to the pure speech of praise so that all may worship my name together and serve me shoulder to shoulder. 
Zephaniah3:10 From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, my worshipers from distant lands will bring me gifts.”" 
Zephaniah3:11 “When that day comes, you will never again be put to shame over your former acts of rebellion. For I will remove from your midst all who are arrogant and who boast in their self-importance. You will never again strut about in pride on my holy mountain." 
Zephaniah3:12 But I will leave a remnant among you: a humble and lowly people who will find their hiding place in the beautiful name of Yahweh. 
Zephaniah3:13 They will do no wrong and only speak the truth, nor will they use any form of deceit. They will be content like grazing sheep. They will rest, and no one will frighten them.”" 
Zephaniah3:14 Go ahead, sing for joy, daughter of Zion. People of Israel, get excited and shout aloud. Rejoice, let blissful praise fill your heart, fair daughter of Jerusalem." 
Zephaniah3:15 Yahweh has canceled out his judgments against you. He has turned your accuser away. Yahweh, your King, is here within you, Israel; you have nothing more to fear." 
Zephaniah3:16 On that day, the message for Jerusalem will be: Zion, do not yield to fear. Don’t let your heart be discouraged." 
Zephaniah3:17 Yahweh, your God, is inside you. He is the Warrior-Savior who takes such delight in you that it will make him leap for joy and shout with great gladness. Yes, he will soothe you with his love. He will sing over you his song of praise." 
Zephaniah3:18 “I will remove the sadness over your appointed feasts, and you will not be ashamed about them again." 
Zephaniah3:19 Behold, at the right time, I will deal with those who mistreat you. I will rescue the weak and regather the scattered ones. I will turn their shame into praise when I restore their honor across the land." 
Zephaniah3:20 On that day, I will be your guide to bring you home; at that time, I will gather you together. You can be sure of this: I will give you a good name, and you will be admired among all the peoples of the earth as I restore your fortunes before your own eyes. I, Yahweh, have spoken.”" 
Haggai1:1 On the first day of the month of Elul during the second year Darius was emperor of Persia, the word of Yahweh was spoken through the prophet Haggai. He delivered this prophecy to the appointed governor of Judah, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and to the high priest, Joshua son of Jehozadak." 
Haggai1:1 On the first day of the month of Elul during the second year Darius was emperor of Persia, the word of Yahweh was spoken through the prophet Haggai. He delivered this prophecy to the appointed governor of Judah, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and to the high priest, Joshua son of Jehozadak." 
Haggai1:2 “ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says this: ‘These people procrastinate by saying that this is not the right time to finish rebuilding Yahweh ’s house.’ ”" 
Haggai1:3 Then Yahweh spoke the following message to the people using Haggai as his mouthpiece: 
Haggai1:4 “ Really? Is this the right time for you to be living in your expensive houses while my house lies in ruins? 
Haggai1:5 So now, I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: You had better be intentional about the path you choose." 
Haggai1:6 You have planted much but harvested very little. You fill your plates, but you are never full. You drink but are still thirsty. You put on clothes but not enough to keep warm. You earn wages, but your money burns a hole in your pocket and quickly runs out." 
Haggai1:7 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, repeat: Be intentional about the path you take." 
Haggai1:8 Now, go up the mountain, cut some timber, and rebuild my house, and I will take pleasure in it and manifest my glory there. It is I, Yahweh, who say so." 
Haggai1:9 “You hoped for abundant crops, but instead you gathered little. When you brought in your meager harvest, I caused it to spoil. It is I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, asking you, ‘Why?’ It is because my house lies in ruins while each of you runs to his own house." 
Haggai1:10 That is why the sky has withheld the rain and the ground its crops. 
Haggai1:11 I have called down drought on the land and hills—your grain, oil, and new wine. It has affected both people and animals and spoiled all your attempts to grow food.”" 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, Joshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, and the entire remnant of the people obeyed the voice of Yahweh their God. They recognized that Yahweh their God had sent Haggai to them, so they obeyed his words. And the people were filled with holy awe toward Yahweh." 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, Joshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, and the entire remnant of the people obeyed the voice of Yahweh their God. They recognized that Yahweh their God had sent Haggai to them, so they obeyed his words. And the people were filled with holy awe toward Yahweh." 
Haggai1:13 Then the messenger of Yahweh, Haggai, spoke Yahweh ’s promise to the people: “I am with you to bless you —declares Yahweh.”" 
Haggai1:14 And Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel governor of Judah, the spirit of Joshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, and the spirit of the entire remnant of the people, and they came together to rebuild the temple of Yahweh, their God, the Commander of Angel Armies." 
Haggai1:14 And Yahweh stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel governor of Judah, the spirit of Joshua son of Jehozadak the high priest, and the spirit of the entire remnant of the people, and they came together to rebuild the temple of Yahweh, their God, the Commander of Angel Armies." 
Haggai1:15 They began their work on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month. 
Haggai2:1 In the second year of King Darius, the twenty-first day of the seventh month, the word of Yahweh happened through the prophet Haggai as follows," 
Haggai2:2 “Go and give this urgent message to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the high priest Joshua son of Jehozadak, and all the remnant of the people:" 
Haggai2:2 “Go and give this urgent message to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the high priest Joshua son of Jehozadak, and all the remnant of the people:" 
Haggai2:3 “Did anyone from among you see the magnificent glory of the original temple? And how does it look to you now? Does it not seem as nothing in your eyes? 
Haggai2:4 “I, Yahweh say to you, Zerubbabel, be courageous! Joshua, son of Jehozadak, high priest, be courageous! All you living in the land, take heart! Go to work, for I am with you, says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Haggai2:4 “I, Yahweh say to you, Zerubbabel, be courageous! Joshua, son of Jehozadak, high priest, be courageous! All you living in the land, take heart! Go to work, for I am with you, says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Haggai2:5 I, Yahweh, will keep the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt. My Spirit is still present among you, so be fearless." 
Haggai2:6 “For I declare to you: Very soon, I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will once again shake the heavens and earth, the land and sea." 
Haggai2:7 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will shake every nation, and the treasures of the nations will flow in, and I will fill this temple with glory." 
Haggai2:8 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declare to you, all the silver and gold is mine." 
Haggai2:9 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declare to you, the glory of this new temple will surpass the glory of the original, and I will grant peace and prosperity in this place. “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have spoken.”" 
Haggai2:10 In the second year of Darius, on the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, the word of Yahweh was spoken to the prophet Haggai as follows:" 
Haggai2:11 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: ‘Ask the priests for their ruling on this:" 
Haggai2:12 If someone holds consecrated meat from a sacrifice and carries it in the fold of his priestly robe, could his robe then pass on holiness if it comes into contact with bread, stew, wine, olive oil, or any kind of food at all?’ ” “No,” the priests replied." 
Haggai2:13 Haggai then said, “If anyone is ritually unclean by contact with a corpse and touches any of these things, would it become unclean?” The priests replied, “Yes, it is unclean.”" 
Haggai2:14 Then Haggai said, “So it is the same with this people. Yahweh declares: ‘The nation is unclean in my eyes. Everything they produce is unclean to me, and everything they offer at the altar is also unclean.’ ”" 
Haggai2:15 “Now consider carefully your recent past before you started rebuilding Yahweh ’s temple. 
Haggai2:16 Stop and remember what condition you were in. You would come expecting to scoop twenty measures of grain but find only ten. You would come expecting to draw fifty measures of wine from a vat but find only twenty. 
Haggai2:17 I struck the produce of your labor by sending hail, hot desert winds to wither your grain, and damp winds to make it rot. Yet you still would not return to me —declares Yahweh." 
Haggai2:18 “Today is the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, the day the people resumed the building of my temple. So be intentional from today forward." 
Haggai2:19 The seed is still in the storehouse, isn’t it? Until now, the grapevines, fig trees, pomegranate and olive trees have not produced a harvest, but from now on, I will certainly bless you, and your harvest will be plentiful.”" 
Haggai2:20 On that same day, the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, the word of Yahweh happened a second time to Haggai, as follows:" 
Haggai2:21 “Tell these words to Zerubbabel governor of Judah: ‘I am going to shake the heavens and the earth. 
Haggai2:22 I will topple thrones and destroy the dynasties of foreign kingdoms. I will crash their chariots and their riders. Horses and their riders will die, for their riders will kill one another with the sword." 
Haggai2:23 I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declare, when that day comes, I will take you, my servant Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and make you like a signet ring. For I have chosen you to be mine. I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies have spoken.’ ”" 
Zechariah1:1 In October of the second year that Darius was emperor of Persia, Yahweh spoke to the prophet Zechariah son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, saying," 
Zechariah1:2 “ I, Yahweh, was intensely angry with your ancestors." 
Zechariah1:3 So give the people this message: ‘ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says to you: “Come back to me, and I will come back to you,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Zechariah1:4 Do not be like your ancestors. Long ago my prophets warned them, saying, “Turn your lives around completely and end your evil, wicked ways.” But they refused to listen to me or obey me." 
Zechariah1:5 And where did they end up? And the prophets, did they live forever?" 
Zechariah1:6 But my words and warnings, which I gave through my servants the prophets, proved to be true. Your ancestors ignored them, and so they were punished. As a result, they repented, saying, “ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has punished us as he warned he would do and as our sinful ways have deserved.” ’ ”" 
Zechariah1:7 On February 15 (the month of Shvat), in the second year of Darius’ reign, Yahweh spoke to the prophet Zechariah son of Berechiah, son of Iddo." 
Zechariah1:8 That night I had a vision. Behold, I saw a man sitting on a reddish-brown horse in the shadows of a grove of myrtles. And behind him I saw other horses—some brown, tan, and white with riders upon them." 
Zechariah1:9 There was another angel there who talked with me, and I asked him, “What do these represent, my lord?” And the angel who was talking to me said, “Let me show you.”" 
Zechariah1:10 Then the man standing among the myrtles spoke up and said, “These are Yahweh ’s agents sent to patrol the earth.”" 
Zechariah1:11 Then the horsemen reported to the angel of Yahweh who stood among the myrtles, “We have been patrolling the land, and indeed, all is peacefully at rest.”" 
Zechariah1:12 Yahweh ’s angel then spoke and said, “ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, you have inflicted your anger on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah for the past seventy years. How many more years will pass before you once again show them that you love them?”" 
Zechariah1:13 Yahweh then replied to the angel who was talking to me with kind and comforting words. 
Zechariah1:14 So the angel told me to proclaim these words of Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies: “My heart burns with passion for Jerusalem and Zion," 
Zechariah1:15 but I am deeply angry with the careless and complacent nations. I was only mildly angry with my people, but the nations I used to punish them acted too severely." 
Zechariah1:16 Therefore, I have returned to Jerusalem with mercy and kindness. I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have decreed to rebuild my house there. Surveyors will stretch my measuring line over Jerusalem to rebuild the city.”" 
Zechariah1:17 The angel also told me to proclaim, “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, decree that my cities will once more overflow with prosperity. I will comfort Zion once again and claim Jerusalem as my own.”" 
Zechariah1:18 Then I looked up and had a vision. Behold, I saw four horns." 
Zechariah1:19 I asked the angel who was talking to me, “What do these represent?” And he answered, “These are the four horns that scattered Jerusalem, Judah, and Israel.”" 
Zechariah1:20 Then Yahweh opened my eyes to see four conquering craftsmen. 
Zechariah1:21 And I asked, “What are they coming to do?” He replied, “They have come to terrify and hammer out justice among the nations who lifted their horns to completely crush the land of Judah and scatter its inhabitants.”" 
Zechariah2:1 Then I looked up again and had another vision. Behold, I saw a man with a measuring line in his hand." 
Zechariah2:2 I asked him, “Where are you going with that?” “To measure Jerusalem,” he replied, “to calculate her width and length.”" 
Zechariah2:3 And behold, the angel who was talking with me left, and another angel came out to meet him." 
Zechariah2:4 He said to him, “Run, and tell the surveyor to stop measuring, for Jerusalem will be too full of people and animals to measure or be enclosed by walls." 
Zechariah2:5 So, I, Yahweh, will be a protective wall of fire surrounding her and a radiant glory within her.”" 
Zechariah2:6 “Look out! Look out! Flee from Babylon,” declares Yahweh, “for like the four winds of heaven I have scattered you in every direction,” declares Yahweh." 
Zechariah2:7 “Escape, Zion, you who live within the fair city of Babylon!”" 
Zechariah2:8 For Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, sent me after glory. And he warns the nations who plundered you: “Whoever touches you, my precious ones, touches the apple of my eye." 
Zechariah2:9 Now behold, I will raise my fist against them to crush them, and those whom they enslaved will plunder them. Then you will know that Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has sent me.”" 
Zechariah2:10 I, Yahweh, declare to you: “It’s time to sing out and rejoice, my daughter Zion, for now I am coming to live among you.”" 
Zechariah2:11 At that time, people from many nations will be converted to Yahweh and become his people, and he will live among them. Then you will know that Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has sent me to you." 
Zechariah2:12 The people of Judah will become Yahweh ’s special people, his inheritance in the holy land, and he will again choose Jerusalem." 
Zechariah2:13 Let everyone be silent before Yahweh, for now he is stirring from his holy dwelling place." 
Zechariah3:1 Then I was shown another vision. I saw Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Yahweh dressed in filthy clothes. On Joshua’s right was the accuser, standing there ready to prosecute him. The angel of Yahweh said to Satan, “ Yahweh rebukes you, Satan! Yes, Yahweh rebukes you, for he has chosen Jerusalem. And he has rescued Joshua, like a stick snatched out of the fire.”" 
Zechariah3:1 Then I was shown another vision. I saw Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of Yahweh dressed in filthy clothes. On Joshua’s right was the accuser, standing there ready to prosecute him. The angel of Yahweh said to Satan, “ Yahweh rebukes you, Satan! Yes, Yahweh rebukes you, for he has chosen Jerusalem. And he has rescued Joshua, like a stick snatched out of the fire.”" 
Zechariah3:2  
Zechariah3:3  
Zechariah3:4 Then the angel said to those heavenly council members who were standing before him, “Remove Joshua’s filthy clothes.” Then he said to Joshua, “Behold, I have taken your guilt away, and I will clothe you with splendid robes.”" 
Zechariah3:4 Then the angel said to those heavenly council members who were standing before him, “Remove Joshua’s filthy clothes.” Then he said to Joshua, “Behold, I have taken your guilt away, and I will clothe you with splendid robes.”" 
Zechariah3:5 And I spoke up and requested, “Let them also put a clean turban on his head.” So they dressed him in clean clothes and put on his head a clean turban while the angel of Yahweh stood nearby." 
Zechariah3:6 So the angel of Yahweh solemnly assured Joshua with these words: 
Zechariah3:6 So the angel of Yahweh solemnly assured Joshua with these words: 
Zechariah3:7 “ Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declares to you, ‘If you walk in my ways and live in obedience to me, you will preside over my temple and keep watch over my courts. And I will let you come and go in the same way as your fellow council members standing here.’ ”" 
Zechariah3:8 “ ‘So listen, high priest Joshua, you and your fellow priests seated here are beautiful symbols of what is to come. Behold, I will reveal my servant, the Branch!" 
Zechariah3:8 “ ‘So listen, high priest Joshua, you and your fellow priests seated here are beautiful symbols of what is to come. Behold, I will reveal my servant, the Branch!" 
Zechariah3:9 And behold, I have laid a stone before Joshua, a precious, unique stone with seven eyes. And I will engrave a special inscription on it,’ says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “ ‘And in a single day, I will remove the sin of the people of this land." 
Zechariah3:9 And behold, I have laid a stone before Joshua, a precious, unique stone with seven eyes. And I will engrave a special inscription on it,’ says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “ ‘And in a single day, I will remove the sin of the people of this land." 
Zechariah3:10 And at that time, everyone will invite his friends to come and have fellowship under their own vine and their own fig tree. I, Yahweh, have spoken.’ ”" 
Zechariah4:1 Then the angel who had been explaining the visions came back and roused me as someone awakened from sleep. 
Zechariah4:2 And he asked me, “What do you see?” As I focused my eyes, I replied, “I see a solid gold lampstand with a bowl for the oil on top. It has seven lamps, and each lamp has a golden spout for the wicks." 
Zechariah4:3 And I also see two olive trees overshadowing the lampstand, one on the right and one on the left.”" 
Zechariah4:4 So I asked the angel who was talking to me, “My lord, what do these things represent?”" 
Zechariah4:5 The angel answered, “Do you not know what they are?” “No, my lord,” I said." 
Zechariah4:6 Here is the message of Yahweh to Zerubbabel: “ You will not succeed by military might nor by your own strength but by my Spirit,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Zechariah4:7 “And what are you, O mighty mountain? Before you, Zerubbabel, this mountain of obstacles will crumble. Then he will set the capstone in place to shouts of ‘Grace and beauty be upon it!’ ”" 
Zechariah4:8 Then another message from Yahweh came to me: 
Zechariah4:9 “With his own hands, Zerubbabel has laid the foundation of this temple, and with his own hands he will finish it. Then you will know that Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has sent me to you." 
Zechariah4:10 “Those who despise the day of small beginnings will rejoice when they see Zerubbabel holding the plumb line in his hands. “The seven lamps represent the seven eyes of Yahweh that keep a close watch over everything on earth.” 
Zechariah4:11 Then I asked the angel two questions: “What about these two olive trees on each side of the lampstand? 
Zechariah4:12 And what are the two branches from which golden oil flows through the two golden pipes?” 
Zechariah4:13 He replied, “Don’t you know what these are?” “No, my lord,” I answered." 
Zechariah4:14 So he explained, “These branches are the two sons of oil who serve the Lord of all the earth.”" 
Zechariah5:1 Then I had another vision. I looked up and saw a flying scroll. 
Zechariah5:2 The angel asked me, “What do you see?” I replied, “I see a flying scroll. It looks about thirty-five feet long and seventeen feet wide.”" 
Zechariah5:3 Then he explained to me its meaning: “This scroll contains God’s curse against evildoers sweeping over the whole land. On one side of the scroll, it says that the Lord will banish every thief. On the other side, it says that he will banish everyone who lies using his name." 
Zechariah5:4 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declares, ‘I will release this curse, and it will enter the house of the thief and of anyone who lies using my name. The curse will remain in his house until it consumes it—walls, beams, and all.’ ”" 
Zechariah5:5 Then the angel who was talking to me appeared and said, “Look at what is coming.”" 
Zechariah5:6 I asked, “What is it?” He replied, “It is a barrel, and it is carrying the guilt of all the people of the land of Judah.”" 
Zechariah5:7 As I looked, the angel removed the heavy lid made of lead from the barrel, and a woman was seated inside." 
Zechariah5:8 The angel said, “This is Lady Wickedness.” And he shoved her back into the barrel and clamped the lead lid over her." 
Zechariah5:9 I looked up and suddenly two women appeared, soaring swiftly in the sky with outstretched wings like those of a stork. They lifted the barrel high in the sky and flew away with it." 
Zechariah5:10 So I asked the angel who was talking to me, “Where are they taking the barrel?”" 
Zechariah5:11 He replied, “To the wicked land of Babylon, where they will build a temple and make a pedestal for it. They will place it there and worship it.”" 
Zechariah6:1 Then I looked once more and had another vision. I saw four chariots coming out between two mountains of bronze. 
Zechariah6:2 The first chariot was pulled by reddish-brown horses, the second by black horses," 
Zechariah6:3 the third by white horses, and the fourth by dappled horses—all of them mighty." 
Zechariah6:4 I asked the angel who was talking to me, “What do these represent, my lord?”" 
Zechariah6:5 The angel explained, “These are the four winds of heaven. They are being dispatched after standing before the Lord of all the earth." 
Zechariah6:6 The black horses are leaving for the land of the north, the white ones for the west, and the dappled for the land of the south.”" 
Zechariah6:7 The strong horses came out eager to patrol the world. He said, “Go and patrol the earth,” and off they went." 
Zechariah6:8 Then he called to me and said, “Watch, the ones going to the land of the north are going to make my Spirit descend upon that region.”" 
Zechariah6:9 Then another message from Yahweh came to me: 
Zechariah6:10 “Go at once to the home of Josiah the son of Zephaniah. There you will receive gifts from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, who have just arrived among the exiles in Babylon." 
Zechariah6:10 “Go at once to the home of Josiah the son of Zephaniah. There you will receive gifts from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, who have just arrived among the exiles in Babylon." 
Zechariah6:11 Accept their gifts of gold and silver and make a crown to place on the head of the high priest Joshua son of Jehozadak. 
Zechariah6:11 Accept their gifts of gold and silver and make a crown to place on the head of the high priest Joshua son of Jehozadak. 
Zechariah6:12 And say this to him, ‘This is what Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says: “Behold the man whose name is the Branch! He will branch out and flourish from his place, and he will build Yahweh ’s sanctuary." 
Zechariah6:13 Yes, he will build Yahweh ’s sanctuary and will be clothed with majesty. He will sit on his throne and rule. He will be a priest ruling on his throne. These two offices will flow together with perfect harmony." 
Zechariah6:14 Joshua’s crown will be placed in my temple as a memorial to the donors Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and in recognition of the generosity of Josiah the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:14 Joshua’s crown will be placed in my temple as a memorial to the donors Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and in recognition of the generosity of Josiah the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:14 Joshua’s crown will be placed in my temple as a memorial to the donors Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and in recognition of the generosity of Josiah the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:15 And those in distant lands will come to assist the building of Yahweh ’s sanctuary.” “ ‘When this happens, you will know for certain that Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, has sent me to you. This will happen if you faithfully obey the voice of Yahweh your God.’ ”" 
Zechariah7:1 In the fourth year of Emperor Darius, on the seventh of December, Yahweh spoke again to Zechariah." 
Zechariah7:2 Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-Melech with a delegation to Jerusalem to pray for the favor of Yahweh. 
Zechariah7:3 So they went to the prophets and priests who were at the Temple of Yahweh and asked them: “For many years, each July we have mourned and fasted. Should we continue to do this?”" 
Zechariah7:4 Then Yahweh spoke this message to me: 
Zechariah7:5 “Ask all the priests and the people of the land: ‘For nearly seventy years, you have been fasting and mourning in the fifth and seventh months. Have you truly been doing this to honor me?" 
Zechariah7:6 And when you ate and drank, were you not doing it for your own pleasure?" 
Zechariah7:7 Did not Yahweh speak these things to you through the prophets in the past? Have you forgotten what he told you when Jerusalem and the surrounding towns were prosperous and secure and when the southland and western foothills were inhabited?’ ” 
Zechariah7:8 Yahweh spoke again to Zechariah, saying," 
Zechariah7:9 “Here is the message of Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies: “Apply the law fairly. “Demonstrate tender love and compassion toward all." 
Zechariah7:10 “Never oppress the widow and the fatherless, the foreigner and the poor. “And do not secretly plot to harm someone.”" 
Zechariah7:11 But they would not listen; they turned their backs on him, and they stopped up their ears rather than stopping to hear." 
Zechariah7:12 Their hearts became as hard as a rock. They refused to listen to the teaching of Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. And they would not hear the words he spoke by his Spirit through the earlier prophets. So Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, became very angry." 
Zechariah7:13 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says, “Even when I called for them, they would not listen. Therefore, I would not listen when they prayed to me for help." 
Zechariah7:14 Like a whirlwind, I swept them away to live in distant lands as foreigners.” After they were scattered, the country was left so desolate that it became impassable. What once was a land of delights they turned into a desert of desolation." 
Zechariah8:1 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, spoke to me, saying," 
Zechariah8:2 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: My heart burns with passion for Zion, and my jealousy for her makes me red-hot with anger toward her enemies." 
Zechariah8:3 “I, Yahweh, have this to say: I will return to Jerusalem and live there on Mount Zion. Then Jerusalem will be known as my faithful city and Zion as my holy mountain, the mountain of Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Zechariah8:4 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: Men and women will once again sit in the parks and squares of Jerusalem, each with a staff to lean on because of their great age." 
Zechariah8:5 And the parks and squares of the city will bustle with boys and girls playing outside. 
Zechariah8:6 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have this to say: If this seems too marvelous for the remnant of my people to believe today, remember this—is there anything too marvelous for me? For I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have spoken." 
Zechariah8:7 “Here is what I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: Behold, I will rescue my people from the countries of the east and the west." 
Zechariah8:8 I will bring them back to live in the heart of Jerusalem, and they will be my beloved people, and I will be their faithful God." 
Zechariah8:9 “This is what I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have to say: Be encouraged, you who now hear these words spoken by the prophets who were there when the foundation was laid for the house of Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. May your hearts be brave so that the temple may be built." 
Zechariah8:10 For up till now, there was no money to hire men or animals; neither has there been security for people to come and go because I had turned them against each other." 
Zechariah8:11 But now, I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will not treat the remnant of this people as I have in the past." 
Zechariah8:12 For now they will plant in peace. Fresh dew will fall from the sky, and the soil will be fertile. Their vineyards will be lush and fruitful. I will grant the remnant of my people all these things." 
Zechariah8:13 Judah and Jerusalem, your names have been used as curses among all the nations, but now you will become the symbol of a blessing. Yes, I will save you to be a blessing, so do not be afraid. Let your hearts be brave!" 
Zechariah8:14 “For I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you: Just as I determined to bring calamity when your ancestors made me angry and I showed no pity," 
Zechariah8:15 so now I have determined to treat Judah and Jerusalem well and make them prosperous. So do not be afraid! 
Zechariah8:16 “Here is what you must do: Speak the truth to one another. Pursue justice in your courts, and hand down verdicts that are sound." 
Zechariah8:17 Have no evil scheme in your hearts against one another. Do not take delight in committing perjury, for these are things that I hate, declares Yahweh.”" 
Zechariah8:18 Then Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, spoke these words to me:" 
Zechariah8:19 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say this to you: Instead of having days of fasting in the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth months, the people of Judah are to have cheerful, joy-filled festivals. Simply live together peacefully and love truth.”" 
Zechariah8:20 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says this, “In the future, people from many nations and cities will come streaming to Jerusalem." 
Zechariah8:21 Citizens of one city will say to the people of another city: ‘We must certainly go and worship Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, and seek his blessing. I am determined to go.’ ”" 
Zechariah8:22 Yes, many peoples and many nations will worship Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, in Jerusalem and seek his blessing." 
Zechariah8:23 Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, says this, “In that day, there will be ten men who take hold of the robe of a Jew. They will come from all nations, speaking every language, and will say: ‘We have heard that God is with you! We want to go with you.’ ”" 
Zechariah9:1 A prophecy: The weighty message of Yahweh pertains to the region of Hadrach, and it will come to rest upon Damascus. “ Yahweh keeps an eye on every person and on all the tribes of Israel" 
Zechariah9:2 and even on Hamath, which borders Damascus, and on Tyre and Sidon with all their great wisdom." 
Zechariah9:3 The people of Tyre have built for themselves a fortress. They have swept up piles of silver like dust and gathered mounds of gold like the dirt of the streets. 
Zechariah9:4 Behold! The Lord will take away all she has, burn her city to the ground, and sink her warships into the sea." 
Zechariah9:5 Ashkelon will see it and be afraid; Gaza will see it and writhe in agony. Ekron will witness the loss of her hopes; the king of Gaza will perish, and Ashkelon will be deserted." 
Zechariah9:6 Foreigners will live in Ashdod. Yes, I will destroy the pride of the Philistine people." 
Zechariah9:7 I will stop them from eating meat with its blood and take the forbidden food from between their teeth. But their remnant, too, will become a part of the people of God, like a clan in Judah. And the people of Ekron will also become a part of God’s people as did the Jebusites." 
Zechariah9:8 I will stand guard before my temple to defend it from all who march against it. No oppressor will overrun them ever again, for now, I am constantly on the alert.”" 
Zechariah9:9 “My daughter Zion, let your heart and soul rejoice! Rejoice, my daughter Jerusalem, and shout your cheerful praises! Look! Your King comes to you. He is righteous and fully qualified to save you. Yet he comes to you so humbly, riding on a donkey; sitting meekly on a colt, a young foal of a donkey." 
Zechariah9:10 I, the Lord, will banish war chariots and horses from Israel and Jerusalem. I will break the bows used in war. Your king will proclaim peace and well-being to the nations. His dominion will stretch from sea to sea, from the river to the ends of the earth." 
Zechariah9:11 As for you, Zion, because of my covenant with you sealed with blood, I have set your captives free from the waterless pit of their prison.”" 
Zechariah9:12 “Come running back home to your fortress, you hope-filled prisoners! This very day, I vow I will restore to you double blessing for your trouble." 
Zechariah9:13 My people will be my weapons, for I have bent Judah as my bow and made Ephraim my arrow. I will awaken and stir up your sons, Zion, against the sons of Greece. I will use you like a warrior’s sword.”" 
Zechariah9:14 Then Yahweh will appear above them, and his arrow will flash like lightning. The Lord Yahweh will sound the shofar and advance in the great storm of his power." 
Zechariah9:15 And Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will be their shield. Their slinging stones shall conquer and subdue the enemy, spilling their blood like wine from an overfilled bowl, like the blood that stains the corners of the altar." 
Zechariah9:16 On that day, Yahweh their God will rescue them and make a way. For they are like a beloved flock of sheep to him, yes, precious like the gemstones of a diadem that will sparkle throughout his land." 
Zechariah9:17 How beautiful and splendid they will be! Young men will flourish by eating the grain, and the maidens by drinking the new wine." 
Zechariah10:1 Ask Yahweh for rain in the season of the latter rain. For Yahweh is the Thunderstorm-Maker. He will give them the outpouring of rain, causing the grain of the field to flourish." 
Zechariah10:2 The household gods babble nonsense, the fortune tellers see false visions, dreamers peddle delusions and give comfort in vain. Therefore, the people have strayed like scattered, suffering, lost sheep because they have no shepherd." 
Zechariah10:3 “I am enraged at the so-called shepherds, and I will vent my anger and punish the proud leaders. I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, care deeply for my flock, the people of Judah. I will transform them from a shepherdless flock of sheep into brave battle horses of splendor." 
Zechariah10:4 Out of them will emerge the cornerstone and the tent peg. From them will emerge battle bows and warrior captains. Together 
Zechariah10:5 they will be like warriors trampling the foe in battle like mud in the streets. They will fight because Yahweh fights with them; they will defeat and humiliate the horsemen. 
Zechariah10:6 “I will make the people of Judah mighty and the descendants of Joseph victorious. And I will bring them back home because I have compassion on them. They will be as though I had never rejected them, for I am Yahweh their God, and I will answer their prayers." 
Zechariah10:7 The people of Israel will be like warriors. Their hearts will be cheered as though by wine. Their children will see this and be full of joy, and their hearts will celebrate and rejoice in Yahweh." 
Zechariah10:8 “I will whistle to call them home as a shepherd gathers his sheep, for I have redeemed them. And they will be as numerous as ever before." 
Zechariah10:9 Though I sowed my people as seed among the nations, they will remember me in those faraway lands. They will all return and rear their children." 
Zechariah10:10 For I will bring them home from Egypt and gather them back from Assyria; I will lead them back into the land of Gilead and Lebanon, yet even there they will not have enough space." 
Zechariah10:11 “I will cross the turbulent sea of trouble and calm its waves. All the depths of the Nile will dry up. I will humble arrogant Assyria and dismantle the power of Egypt. 
Zechariah10:12 I will make my people mighty in me, and they will walk in my name. I, Yahweh, declare it.”" 
Zechariah11:1 Open your borders, Lebanon. Let fire consume your cedar trees." 
Zechariah11:2 Cry in sorrow, cypress, for the towering cedar trees have toppled— the high and mighty ones are destroyed. Wail, oaks of Bashan, for the thick forest has been felled." 
Zechariah11:3 Listen! It’s the sound of the wailing of shepherds. Their glory is gone, their rich pastures destroyed. Listen! It’s the sound of the young lions roaring. The thickets of the Jordan have been ravaged." 
Zechariah11:4 This is what my God, Yahweh, says: “Shepherd the inhabitants of this land, for they are like a flock doomed for slaughter." 
Zechariah11:5 Those who buy them slaughter them without remorse. And the merchants who sell them say, ‘Blessed be Yahweh, I have become rich!’ Even the hirelings—their own shepherds—show no pity for the sheep. I will no longer show mercy to the inhabitants of the land,” declares Yahweh. “Instead, I will cause each one to fall into the clutches of his neighbor and into the clutches of his king. They will devastate the land, and I will not rescue anyone from their power.”" 
Zechariah11:6  
Zechariah11:7 So I became a shepherd for the sheep doomed for slaughter, especially for those sheep who had been trafficked. I took two staffs in my hand; one I named “Affection,” and the other I named “Union,” and I cared for the sheep myself." 
Zechariah11:8 So I removed three shepherds in one month, for I ran out of patience with the sheep-traffickers, and they hated me." 
Zechariah11:9 And I told them, “I am not going to be your shepherd anymore. Those doomed to die can die; those doomed for destruction can perish; and the rest can devour one another.”" 
Zechariah11:10 Then I took my staff, “Affection,” and broke it in half to revoke the covenant that I had made with the whole nation of Israel." 
Zechariah11:11 So it was annulled on that day, and the sheep-traffickers, who were watching me, realized that Yahweh was speaking through me." 
Zechariah11:12 Then I said to them, “If it seems right to you, give me my wages; if not, never mind.” So they weighed out my wages: thirty shekels of silver." 
Zechariah11:13 Yahweh said to me, “Now, hand your silver over to the treasury, these thirty pieces of silver—this wonderful sum at which they valued me.” So I took the thirty shekels of silver and handed them over to the treasury in the house of Yahweh." 
Zechariah11:14 Then I broke in half my second staff, “Union,” to symbolize the breaking of brotherly bonds between Judah and Israel." 
Zechariah11:15 Next, Yahweh said to me, “Once again, act the part of a worthless shepherd and take with you the shepherd’s gear." 
Zechariah11:16 For behold, I am now raising up a shepherd in the land who will not care about the lost, who will not go in search of the stray, who will not heal the injured, who will not feed the healthy sheep, but instead, he will eat the meat of the fattest sheep and even tear off their hooves." 
Zechariah11:17 “Doom is ahead for the worthless shepherd who deserts his flock! May the sword strike his arm and gouge his right eye! May his arm shrivel completely and his right eye be totally blind!” 
Zechariah12:1 A prophecy. A message of Yahweh to Israel. “I, Yahweh, the Heaven-Unfolder, the Earth-Foundation-Layer, and the Spirit-Shaper of every human spirit, announce to you:" 
Zechariah12:2 “Behold! I am about to make Jerusalem an intoxicating cup filled with the wine of my wrath. Any nation around her who dares to drink from it will stagger and fall. And a siege will be laid against Judah and Jerusalem. 
Zechariah12:3 “In that day, when all the nations join forces against her, I will make Jerusalem like a heavy stone. All who lift it will severely injure themselves." 
Zechariah12:4 “In that day, I will confuse every horse with panic and their riders with madness,” says Yahweh. “ Yes, I will strike the horses of the enemies with blindness, but I will watch over the people of Judah." 
Zechariah12:5 Then the leaders of Judah will say to themselves, ‘The people of Jerusalem are strong because Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, is their God.’" 
Zechariah12:6 “In that day, I will make Judah’s leaders like a blazing pot in a pile of dry brush, like a flaming torch in straw. They will destroy in all directions the surrounding nations. The people of Jerusalem will continue to live safely in their own city." 
Zechariah12:7 I, Yahweh, will save the tents of Judah first so that the descendants of David and the people of Jerusalem do not receive more honor than the rest of Judah." 
Zechariah12:8 “In that day, my wraparound presence will protect the people of Jerusalem. And in that day I will transform the weakest among them to become as mighty as David, and the dynasty of David will be like God, like the angel of Yahweh going before them.”" 
Zechariah12:9 “I am determined in that day to destroy all the nations who attack Jerusalem. 
Zechariah12:10 But I will pour out over the rulers and people of Jerusalem the Spirit of Grace and the Spirit of Prayer. And they will gaze upon me, the Pierced One. They will mourn for the one they pierced as though for an only child and weep bitterly for him as people weep for a firstborn child." 
Zechariah12:11 In that day, the mourning in Jerusalem will be as great as the mourning for Hadad Rimmon in the Plain of Megiddo." 
Zechariah12:12 And the people of the land will mourn each clan by itself and their women by themselves: The clan of David’s family and their women, the clan of Nathan’s family and their women," 
Zechariah12:13 the clan of Levi’s family and their women, the clan of Shimei’s family and their women," 
Zechariah12:14 and all the rest of the clans and their women.” 
Zechariah13:1 “In that day, I will tear open a flowing fountain for the family of David and the people of Jerusalem—a fountain to wash away sin and impurity.”" 
Zechariah13:2 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declare: In that day, I will eliminate idolatry from the land, and no one will remember the names of idols anymore. I will also rid the land of false prophets and unclean spirits." 
Zechariah13:3 Therefore, if anyone continues prophesying falsely, his parents who gave him life will say to him, ‘You must forfeit your life since you speak lies in Yahweh ’s name.’ And even while he is prophesying, his parents who gave him life will pierce him through." 
Zechariah13:4 “In that day, every false prophet will be ashamed to prophesy and share their so-called visions. No longer will false prophets wear the coarse robe to deceive people into thinking they are genuine prophets." 
Zechariah13:5 Instead, they will admit, ‘I am not a prophet. I have been living off the land as a farmer ever since my youth.’" 
Zechariah13:6 And if anyone asks him, ‘What are those scars on your back?’ he will reply, ‘I was wounded in the house of my dear friends.’ ”" 
Zechariah13:7 “Awake my sword! Strike my shepherd! Strike the man who stands close to me,” declares Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “If you strike the shepherd, the sheep will scatter. I will even set myself against the young ones." 
Zechariah13:8 “So it will be, throughout the land,” declares Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “Two-thirds of the people will be struck down, and the other third will remain." 
Zechariah13:9 I will cause the remaining third to pass through the fire, to refine them as silver is refined. And I will test them as gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will answer them; I will say to them, ‘You are my people,’ and they will say, ‘ Yahweh is our God!’ ”" 
Zechariah14:1 Behold, Yahweh, will have his day! And Jerusalem, when that day comes, your plunder will be divided in your midst." 
Zechariah14:2 For I will gather all the nations to Jerusalem for battle. The city will be captured, the houses ransacked, and the women raped. Half the people will go into exile, but the rest will be allowed to remain in the city." 
Zechariah14:3 Then Yahweh will intervene and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. 
Zechariah14:4 On that day, his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, east of Jerusalem. Then the Mount of Olives will be divided down the middle, forming a wide valley that runs from east to west. So half the Mount will move backward to the north and the other half to the south." 
Zechariah14:5 When this happens, you will escape by way of my newly formed valley, which will extend as far as Azal. You will flee as your ancestors fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. And Yahweh your God will come and all the holy ones with him." 
Zechariah14:6 On that day, there will be no light, neither cold nor frost." 
Zechariah14:7 It will be a unique day, a day known only to Yahweh. There will be no more day and night, and even at evening, it will remain light." 
Zechariah14:8 On that day, living waters will flow from Jerusalem, half toward the Dead Sea, half toward the Mediterranean Sea. And they will flow in the summer and winter." 
Zechariah14:9 Then King Yahweh will rule over the whole world. When that day comes, Yahweh will be the one and only God, and everyone will acknowledge him by one single name." 
Zechariah14:10 The entire land of Judah will be transformed into a fertile plain, from Geba in the north to Rimmon south of Jerusalem. But Jerusalem will remain standing high above the plain from the Benjamin Gate to the site of the first gate, to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the king’s winepresses." 
Zechariah14:11 People will live there securely, for the city will never again be doomed to destruction. Jerusalem will be safe to live in." 
Zechariah14:12 And Yahweh will bring a devastating plague upon all the nations who have fought against Jerusalem. Their flesh will rot while they stand on their feet. Their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths." 
Zechariah14:13 And on that day, Yahweh will cause their hearts to panic. Each one will seize his neighbor and strike him. Fighting will break out one against another" 
Zechariah14:14 until even the people of Judah will fight against the people of Jerusalem. The people of Jerusalem will gather all the riches of the surrounding nations: vast amounts of gold, silver, and clothing." 
Zechariah14:15 And a similar plague will afflict the horses, mules, camels, donkeys, and all the other animals in the camp of their enemies." 
Zechariah14:16 Afterward, the survivors of all the nations that have attacked the city will return to Jerusalem each year to worship the King of the world, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, and to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles." 
Zechariah14:17 And if any of the people groups of the world do not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King of the world, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, no rain will fall upon their land." 
Zechariah14:18 And if the Egyptian people do not make this pilgrimage, then Yahweh will send the same plague he sent the other nations that did not celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles." 
Zechariah14:19 This will be the punishment for Egypt and the punishment for all the nations that fail to come up to keep the Feast of Tabernacles. 
Zechariah14:20 When that day comes, the very bells on the horses will have inscribed on them, “Holy to Yahweh.” Even the cooking pots of the house of Yahweh will be as sacred as the sprinkling bowls set before the altar." 
Zechariah14:21 Yes, every cooking pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, and acceptable to use for anyone who comes to offer a sacrifice. And at that time there will be no merchant in the house of Yahweh, who commands the armies of heaven." 
Malachi1:1 This is divine revelation —the message Yahweh gave to Israel through Malachi. 
Malachi1:2 “I, Yahweh, say to you: I have always loved you. “But you ask, ‘How have you shown us your love?’ “I, Yahweh, say to you: Were not Esau and Jacob twins? Yet I have loved Jacob and his descendants" 
Malachi1:3 more than Esau and his descendants, whom I rejected. And I have turned the hill country of Esau into a barren wasteland and left his land to the desert jackals." 
Malachi1:4 “The people of Edom vow, ‘Though we have been shattered, we will rebuild the ruins.’ “But this is what I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say: You may build, but I will demolish it again. People will call you ‘The Wicked Land’ and ‘The People under the Perpetual Anger of Yahweh.’" 
Malachi1:5 “ Israel, you will witness this with your own eyes and say, ‘The greatness of Yahweh extends even beyond our own borders.’ ”" 
Malachi1:6 “I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, say to you priests, ‘Sons honor their fathers, and servants respect their masters. Yet if I am your father, why don’t you honor me? If I am your master, why don’t you respect me? You have despised my glorious name.’ “But you ask, ‘How have we despised your name?’" 
Malachi1:7 “You place defiled food on my sacred altar. “Still you ask, ‘How have we defiled you?’ “By treating Yahweh ’s table as though it deserves no respect." 
Malachi1:8 Is it not wrong to offer your blind, lame, and sick animals as sacrifices to me? Try offering them to your governor! Would he be pleased with you? Would he show you favor?” asks Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Malachi1:9 “Now try flattering me with inappropriate sacrifices that I may be gracious to you. When you offer me such sacrifices, do you expect me to show you favor?” asks Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Malachi1:10 “It would be far better to halt temple worship altogether and one of you shut the temple gates so that you would not keep lighting worthless fires on my altar. I am not pleased with you, and I will not accept any offering from your hands,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Malachi1:11 “From one end of the world to the other, my name will be great among the nations. In every place, incense and a pure offering will be offered to my name. All over the world my name will receive honor,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Malachi1:12 “But your actions dishonor me. You profane my name by being bored with the Lord’s table and considering it to be common. You say that what you offer me has no worth. 
Malachi1:13 You also say, ‘We’re fed up with all this!’ And you turn up your nose in disgust,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “You offer me injured, crippled, or diseased animals, but I won’t accept your sacrifices. This is Yahweh speaking to you." 
Malachi1:14 “A curse rests on the cheat who has a perfect male offering in his flock and vows to give it but then sacrifices a puny, imperfect animal to me. For I am a great King,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, “and my name is to be formidable among the nations.”" 
Malachi2:1 “And now, this is my warning for you priests:" 
Malachi2:2 I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, am speaking to you. If you do not listen and fervently devote your heart to honor my name, then I will send the curse upon you and convert your blessings into curses. Yes, I have already done so since you have not dedicated your heart to honor me." 
Malachi2:3 “Behold! I will rebuke your descendants. I will smear feces on your faces—the dung from your festival sacrifices—and you priests will be tossed away with the animal waste. 
Malachi2:4 And then you will know that I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, have sent you this commandment so that my covenant with Levi may endure." 
Malachi2:5 My covenant with his tribe was a covenant to give them a full, peaceful life. All this I gave to him so that he would revere me, and indeed, he honored me and stood in awe of my name." 
Malachi2:6 He gave the people solid instruction and spoke nothing false. He walked with me in peace and integrity and turned many from evil. 
Malachi2:7 “Listen, you priests, descendants of Levi. Your lips should be a gateway to sacred truths when people come to you for instruction because you are the messengers of Yahweh, who rules over all." 
Malachi2:8 But you have turned from my path, and your teachings have caused many to stumble. You have corrupted the covenant with Levi. So I have caused you to be despised and humiliated before all the people. For you have not followed my ways but have shown partiality in matters of the law. This is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, speaking to you.”" 
Malachi2:9  
Malachi2:10 Have we not all one Father, the one God who created us? So why do we cheat one another and violate the covenant that God made with our ancestors?" 
Malachi2:11 The people of Judah have been unfaithful. A horrible atrocity has been committed throughout the land and even in Jerusalem. They have married foreign women who worship their strange gods and in this way have defiled Yahweh ’s temple, which he loves." 
Malachi2:12 May Yahweh punish the one who has done such a despicable thing, whoever he may be, even though he brings offerings to the Lord Almighty. May Yahweh banish his entire family from the community of Israel!" 
Malachi2:13 Another thing you do: You drown Yahweh ’s altar with tears. You weep and wail because he no longer values your offerings or accepts with pleasure what you bring him. 
Malachi2:14 “Why not?” you ask. It is because you promised before Yahweh to be faithful to the wife you chose in your youth. She is your partner, and you are bound to her by covenant, yet you have betrayed her." 
Malachi2:15 Has God not made them one with a shared Spirit in their union? And what does he desire but godly children from your union? So guard your spirit and do not be disloyal to the wife of your youth. 
Malachi2:16 “I, Yahweh, the God of Israel, say to you: ‘He who does not love his wife but hates her and divorces her overwhelms her with cruelty. So guard your spirit and do not abandon her.’ This is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, speaking to you.”" 
Malachi2:17 You weary Yahweh with your words. Yet you ask, “How have we wearied him?” By saying, “Evildoers are good in the eyes of Yahweh, and he is pleased with them.” And you ask, “Where is the God of justice?”" 
Malachi3:1 “Behold! I am sending my messenger, who will prepare the way before me. Then suddenly, the Lord whom you long for will enter his temple. The messenger of the covenant, your soul’s delight, will certainly come,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Malachi3:2 But who can endure the day of his coming? Who will not fall down in worship when the Lord is unveiled? For he will carry out a purifying process. He will be like a refiner’s fire or a launderer’s bleach. 
Malachi3:3 He will be as a silversmith who sits refining and purifying silver. He will purify the Levites, refining his priests until they are like pure gold and fine silver. Then I, Yahweh, will have those who bring me offerings in righteousness." 
Malachi3:4 And the offerings of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to me, as in former times and years past." 
Malachi3:5 “So I will come near to you and put you on trial. I will be quick to testify against sorcerers, adulterers, and those who lie under oath, against those who cheat workers of their wages, who oppress the widows and orphans and ignore the immigrants but who do not live in awe of me. This is Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, speaking to you." 
Malachi3:6 Truly, I, Yahweh, have not changed. And you, children of Jacob, you haven’t changed either.”" 
Malachi3:7 “Ever since the time of your ancestors, you have turned away from my laws and evaded them. Return to me, and I will return to you,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “But you ask, ‘How do we need to return?’" 
Malachi3:8 “Is it right for people to rob God? Yet you rob me. “But you ask, ‘How could we possibly rob you?’ “You withhold your tithes and offerings." 
Malachi3:9 You are under a curse—the whole lot of you are guilty of robbing me. 
Malachi3:10 Bring the full amount of your tithes into the temple treasury so that there may be ample provisions in my house. Test me and see if I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, will fling open the floodgates of heaven for you and pour down upon you an overflowing blessing that you will not be able to contain." 
Malachi3:11 I will defeat the devourer so that it will not destroy the fruits of your fields, and your vines will be full of grapes,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies." 
Malachi3:12 “Then all the nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land in which God takes delight. I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, promise you this.”" 
Malachi3:13 “Your harsh, rebellious words are in defiance of me,” says Yahweh. “But you ask, ‘What words are you talking about?’" 
Malachi3:14 “You have said, ‘It’s no use serving God. What do we gain by keeping his requirements and observing these mourning ceremonies before Yahweh?" 
Malachi3:15 But now, we will call proud people blessed. Even evildoers prosper, and those who provoke God escape punishment.’ ”" 
Malachi3:16 Then those who lived in awe of Yahweh began discussing these things, and Yahweh noticed and listened. A scroll of remembrance was written in the presence of Yahweh. It included the names of those who lived in awe of Yahweh and honored his name." 
Malachi3:17 “They will be mine,” says Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies. “And on the day when I make up my treasured possession, I will show them mercy, just as a compassionate father is gentle with his faithful son." 
Malachi3:18 And you will once again see that I make a distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between those who serve me and those who do not.”" 
Malachi4:1 “You see, there is a day coming, raging like a fiery furnace. On that day, all the proud and wicked people will burn up like straw thrown into a furnace. Neither stalks nor roots will remain. I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, declare it." 
Malachi4:2 “But for you who stand in awe at the sound of my name, a new dawn is coming. For the sun of righteousness will rise with healing radiating from its wings. And you will be free and leap for joy like calves released from the stall." 
Malachi4:3 In the day that I, Yahweh, Commander of Angel Armies, am preparing, you will overcome and trample down the wicked like they were ashes under your feet.”" 
Malachi4:4 “Remember the law of my servant Moses, the commands and instructions I gave him at Mount Sinai for all Israel to obey." 
Malachi4:5 “Keep watching, for I am sending you the prophet Elijah before that great and fearful day of Yahweh arrives." 
Malachi4:6 He will return the fathers’ hearts to their children and the children’s hearts to their fathers so that I can come and bless and not strike the land with a curse.” 
Matthew1:5 who had a son named Salmon, who, along with Rahab, had a son named Boaz. Boaz and Ruth had a son named Obed, who was the father of Jesse," 
Matthew1:10 who had a son named Manasseh, who had a son named Amos, who had a son named Josiah," 
Matthew2:17 This fulfilled the words of the prophet Jeremiah: 
Matthew3:3 Isaiah was referring to John when he prophesied: A thunderous voice! One will be crying out in the wilderness, “Prepare yourself for the Lord’s coming and level a straight path inside your hearts for him.”" 
Matthew4:14 He did this to make the prophecy of Isaiah come true: 
Matthew8:17 In doing this, Jesus fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah: He put upon himself our weaknesses, and he carried away our diseases and made us well." 
Matthew12:17 in order to fulfill the prophecy of Isaiah: 
Matthew12:39 Jesus replied, “Only evil people who are unfaithful to God would demand a sign. There will be no sign given to you except the sign of the prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 For as Jonah was in the belly of the huge sea creature for three days and three nights, so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights." 
Matthew12:41 The people of Nineveh will also rise up on the day of judgment to condemn this generation. For they all repented when they heard the preaching of Jonah. And there is one greater than Jonah here preaching to you today! 
Matthew13:14 The prophecy of Isaiah describes them perfectly: Although they listen carefully to everything I speak, they don’t understand a thing I say. They look and pretend to see, but the eyes of their hearts are closed." 
Matthew15:7 Frauds and hypocrites! Isaiah described you perfectly when he said: 
Matthew16:4 A wicked and wayward generation always asks for signs, but the only sign I provide for you will be the sign of Jonah the prophet.” Then he turned away and left them." 
Matthew16:14 They answered, “Some are convinced you are John the Baptizer, others say you are Elijah reincarnated, or Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.”" 
Matthew16:17 Jesus replied, “You are favored and privileged Simeon, son of Jonah! For you didn’t discover this on your own, but my Father in heaven has supernaturally revealed it to you." 
Matthew23:35 As your penalty, you will be held responsible for the righteous blood spilled and the murders of every godly person throughout your history—from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Jehoiada, whom you killed as he stood in the temple between the brazen altar and the Holy Place." 
Matthew24:15 “When you witness what Daniel prophesied, ‘the disgusting destroyer,’ taking its stand in the Holy Place [let the reader learn]," 
Matthew27:9 This fulfilled the prophecy of Zechariah: They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price at which he was valued by the people of Israel, the price of a precious man," 
Mark1:2 It starts with Isaiah the prophet, who wrote: Listen! I am sending my messenger ahead of you and he will prepare your way!" 
Mark7:6 Jesus replied, “You are hypocrites! How accurately did Isaiah prophesy about you phonies when he said: ‘These people honor me with their words while their hearts run far away from me!" 
Mark13:14 “When you witness what Daniel prophesied, ‘the disgusting destroyer,’ standing where it must not be [Let the reader learn what it means], then those in the land of Judah must escape to higher ground." 
Luke1:5 During the reign of King Herod the Great of Judea, there was a Jewish priest named Zechariah who served in the temple as part of the priestly order of Abijah. His wife, Elizabeth, was also from a family of priests, and was a descendant of Aaron." 
Luke1:8 One day, Zechariah’s priestly order was on duty and he was serving as priest. He was chosen by the casting of lots (according to the custom of the priesthood) so the honor fell upon Zechariah to enter the Holy Place and burn incense before the Lord." 
Luke1:12 Zechariah was startled and overwhelmed with fear. 
Luke1:13 But the angel reassured him, saying, “Don’t be afraid, Zechariah! God is showing grace to you. For I have come to tell you that your prayer for a child has been answered. Your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son and you are to name him John." 
Luke1:18 Zechariah asked the angel, “How do you expect me to believe this? I’m an old man and my wife is too old to give me a child. What sign can you give me to prove this will happen? ”" 
Luke1:21 Meanwhile, the crowds outside kept expecting him to come out. They were amazed over Zechariah’s delay, wondering what could have happened inside the sanctuary." 
Luke1:39 Afterward, Mary arose and hurried off to the hill country of Judea, to the village where Zechariah and Elizabeth lived." 
Luke1:59 When the baby was eight days old, according to their custom, all the family and friends came together for the circumcision ceremony. Everyone assumed that the parents would name the baby Zechariah, after his father," 
Luke1:64 Instantly Zechariah could speak again. And his first words were praises to the Lord. 
Luke1:67 Then Zechariah was filled to overflowing with the Holy Spirit and he prophesied, saying:" 
Luke3:1 A powerful message from God came to John, Zechariah’s son, when he was living out in the lonely wilderness. This prophetic commission came to John during the fifteenth year of the reign of Emperor Tiberius, son of Caesar. Pontius Pilate was governor over Judea at that time. Antipas, son of Herod, was governor over Galilee, Herod’s brother Philip was over the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias was over Abilene. This happened during the days of two high priests, Annas and Caiaphas." 
Luke3:4 fulfilling what was written in the book of the prophet Isaiah: “Listen! You will hear a thunderous voice in the lonely wilderness telling you to wake up and get your heart ready for the coming of the Lord Yahweh. Make straight every twisted thing in your lives. 
Luke4:16 When he came to Nazareth, where he had grown up, he went into the synagogue, as he always did on the Sabbath. When Jesus came to the front to read the Scriptures, he was handed the scroll of the prophet Isaiah. He unrolled the scroll and found where it is written," 
Luke11:29 As the crowds continued to swell, Jesus went on to say, “How evil is this generation! When you demand a mighty display of power simply to prove who I am, you demonstrate your unbelief. The only sign you will see will be a repeat of the miracle of Jonah." 
Luke11:30 In the same way Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so the Son of Man will be a sign to this generation." 
Luke11:32 Yes, the people of Nineveh will also rise up on the day of judgment to accuse and condemn this generation. For they all repented when they heard the preaching of Jonah, but you refuse to repent. Yet there is one greater than Jonah who is preaching to you today.”" 
Luke11:51 from the blood of Abel, who was killed by his brother, to the blood of Zechariah, who was murdered in the middle of the temple court. Yes, I tell you, you will be responsible for it all." 
Luke20:42 Haven’t you read in the Psalms where David himself wrote: The Lord Yahweh said to my Lord, ‘Sit near me in the place of authority" 
Luke24:44 Then he said to them, “Don’t you remember the words that I spoke to you when I was still with you? I told you that I would fulfill everything written about me, including all the prophecies from the law of Moses through the Psalms and the writings of the prophets.”" 
John12:38 This fulfilled the prophecy given by Isaiah: Lord, who has believed our message? Who has seen the unveiling of your great power?" 
John12:39 And the people were not able to believe, for Isaiah also prophesied:" 
John12:41 Isaiah said these things because he had seen and experienced the splendor of Jesus and prophesied about him. 
John21:15 After they had breakfast, Jesus said to Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you burn with love for me more than these?” Peter answered, “Yes, Lord! You know that I have great affection for you!” “Then take care of my lambs,” Jesus said." 
John21:16 Jesus repeated his question the second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you burn with love for me?” Peter answered, “Yes, my Lord! You know that I have great affection for you!” “Then take care of my sheep,” Jesus said." 
John21:17 Then Jesus asked him again, “Peter, son of Jonah, do you have great affection for me?” Peter was saddened by being asked the third time and said, “My Lord, you know everything. You know that I burn with love for you!” Jesus replied, “Then feed my lambs!" 
Acts1:20 For it is written in the Psalms: ‘Let his house be deserted and become a wasteland. No one will live there.’ And also: ‘Let another take his ministry.’ 
Acts2:16 This is the fulfillment of what was prophesied through the prophet Joel, for God says:" 
Acts7:45 The next generation received possession of it, and under Joshua’s leadership they took possession of the land of the nations, which God drove out in front of them. The tabernacle was carried about until" 
Acts8:28 As he rode along in his chariot, he was reading from the scroll of Isaiah." 
Acts8:30 So Philip ran to catch up. As he drew closer he overheard the man reading from the scroll of Isaiah the prophet. Philip asked him, “Sir, do you understand what you’re reading?”" 
Acts8:32 The portion from Isaiah he was reading was this: He was led away to the slaughter like a lamb to be offered. He was like a lamb that is silent before those who sheared him— he never even opened his mouth. 
Acts13:33 has now been fulfilled for us, their children. For God has raised Jesus from the dead, as it says in Psalms: ‘Today I reveal you as my Son, and I as your Father.’" 
Acts13:34 “God had promised to not let him decay in the tomb or face destruction again, so God raised him from the dead. He gave this promise in the Psalms: ‘I will give to you what I gave to David: Faithful mercies that you can trust.’" 
Acts28:25 still unable to agree among themselves. They were about to leave when Paul made one last statement to them: “The Holy Spirit stated it well when he spoke to your ancestors through the prophet Isaiah: 
Romans9:25 Remember the prophecy God gave in Hosea: “To those who were rejected and not my people, I will say to them: ‘You are mine.’ And to those who were unloved I will say: ‘You are my darling.’ ”" 
Romans9:27 And the prophet Isaiah cries out to Israel: Though the children of Israel are as many as the sands of the seashore, only a remnant will be saved." 
Romans9:29 Just as Isaiah saw it coming and prophesied: If the Lord God had not left us a remnant, we would have been destroyed like Sodom and left desolate like Gomorrah!" 
Romans10:16 But not everyone welcomes the good news, as Isaiah said: Lord, is there anyone who hears and believes our message?" 
Romans10:20 And Isaiah the fearless prophet dared to declare: “Those who found me weren’t even seeking me. I manifested myself before those who weren’t even asking to know me!” 
Romans10:21 Yet regarding Israel Isaiah says: “With love I have held out my hands day after day, offering myself to this unbelieving and stubborn people!”" 
Romans15:12 And Isaiah prophesied: “An heir to David’s throne will emerge, and he will rise up as ruler over all the non-Jewish nations, for all their hopes will be met in him.”" 
Ephesians5:19 And your hearts will overflow with a joyful song to the Lord. Keep speaking to each other with words of Scripture, singing the Psalms with praises and spontaneous songs given by the Spirit!" 
Colossians3:16 Let the word of Christ live in you richly, flooding you with all wisdom. Apply the Scriptures as you teach and instruct one another with the Psalms, and with festive praises, and with prophetic songs given to you spontaneously by the Spirit, so sing to God with all your hearts!" 
Colossians4:10 Aristarchus, a fellow prisoner here with me, sends you his love. And Joshua (who is also called Justus) along with Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, also send you their loving greetings. You have already been informed that if Mark comes to you, receive him warmly. These three men are the only ones of the circumcision who have aided me here in the work of the kingdom of God, and they have been a great blessing to me." 
Hebrews4:8 Now if this promise of “rest” was fulfilled when Joshua brought the people into the land, God wouldn’t have spoken later of another “rest” yet to come." 
Hebrews7:17 For it says in the Psalms, You are like Melchizedek, a King-Priest forever!" 
James5:11 We honor them as our heroes because they remained faithful even while enduring great sufferings. And you have heard of all that Job went through and we can now see that the Lord ultimately treated him with wonderful kindness, revealing how tenderhearted he really is!" 
