Genesis1:1 In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth." 
Genesis1:2 The earth didn't have any shape. And it was empty. Darkness was over the surface of the ocean. At that time, the ocean covered the earth. The Spirit of God was hovering over the waters." 
Genesis1:3 God said, ""Let there be light."" And there was light." 
Genesis1:4 God saw that the light was good. He separated the light from the darkness. 
Genesis1:5 God called the light day. He called the darkness night. There was evening, and there was morning. It was day one." 
Genesis1:6 God said, ""Let there be a huge space between the waters. Let it separate water from water.""" 
Genesis1:7 And that's exactly what happened. God made the huge space between the waters. He separated the water that was under the space from the water that was above it. 
Genesis1:8 God called the huge space sky. There was evening, and there was morning. It was day two." 
Genesis1:9 God said, ""Let the water under the sky be gathered into one place. Let dry ground appear."" And that's exactly what happened." 
Genesis1:10 God called the dry ground land. He called the waters that were gathered together oceans. And God saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:11 Then God said, ""Let the land produce plants. Let them bear their own seeds. And let there be trees on the land that bear fruit with seeds in it. Let each kind of plant or tree have its own kind of seeds."" And that's exactly what happened." 
Genesis1:12 The land produced plants. Each kind of plant had its own kind of seeds. The land produced trees that bore fruit with seeds in it. Each kind of tree had its own kind of seeds. God saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:13 And there was evening, and there was morning. It was day three." 
Genesis1:14 God said, ""Let there be lights in the huge space of the sky. Let them separate the day from the night. Let them serve as signs to mark off the seasons and the days and the years." 
Genesis1:15 Let them serve as lights in the huge space of the sky to give light on the earth. And that's exactly what happened. 
Genesis1:16 God made two great lights. He made the larger light to rule over the day. He made the smaller light to rule over the night. He also made the stars. 
Genesis1:17 God put the lights in the huge space of the sky to give light on the earth. 
Genesis1:18 He put them there to rule over the day and the night. He put them there to separate light from darkness. God saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:19 And there was evening, and there was morning. It was day four." 
Genesis1:20 God said, ""Let the waters be filled with living things. Let birds fly above the earth across the huge space of the sky.""" 
Genesis1:21 So God created the great creatures of the ocean. He created every living and moving thing that fills the waters. He created all kinds of them. He created every kind of bird that flies. And God saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:22 God blessed them. He said, ""Have little ones and increase your numbers. Fill the water in the oceans. Let there be more and more birds on the earth.""" 
Genesis1:23 There was evening, and there was morning. It was day five." 
Genesis1:24 God said, ""Let the land produce all kinds of living creatures. Let there be livestock, and creatures that move along the ground, and wild animals. Let there be all kinds of them."" And that's exactly what happened." 
Genesis1:25 God made all kinds of wild animals. He made all kinds of livestock. He made all kinds of creatures that move along the ground. And God saw that it was good. 
Genesis1:26 Then God said, ""Let us make man in our likeness. Let them rule over the fish in the waters and the birds of the air. Let them rule over the livestock and over the whole earth. Let them rule over all of the creatures that move along the ground.""" 
Genesis1:27 So God created man in his own likeness. He created him in the likeness of God. He created them as male and female. 
Genesis1:28 God blessed them. He said to them, ""Have children and increase your numbers. Fill the earth and bring it under your control. Rule over the fish in the waters and the birds of the air. Rule over every living creature that moves on the ground.""" 
Genesis1:29 Then God said, ""I am giving you every plant on the face of the whole earth that bears its own seeds. I am giving you every tree that has fruit with seeds in it. All of them will be given to you for food." 
Genesis1:30 I am giving every green plant to all of the land animals and the birds of the air for food. I am also giving the plants to all of the creatures that move on the ground. I am giving them to every living thing that breathes. And that's exactly what happened. 
Genesis1:31 God saw everything he had made. And it was very good. There was evening, and there was morning. It was day six." 
Genesis2:1 So the heavens and the earth and everything in them were completed. 
Genesis2:2 By the seventh day God had finished the work he had been doing. So on the seventh day he rested from all of his work. 
Genesis2:3 God blessed the seventh day and made it holy. He rested on it. After he had created everything, he rested from all of the work he had done." 
Genesis2:4 Here is the story of the heavens and the earth when they were created. The Lord God made the earth and the heavens. 
Genesis2:5 At that time, bushes had not appeared on the earth. Plants had not come up in the fields. The Lord God had not sent rain on the earth. And there wasn't any man to work the ground." 
Genesis2:6 But streams came up from the earth. They watered the whole surface of the ground. 
Genesis2:7 Then the Lord God formed a man. He made him out of the dust of the ground. He breathed the breath of life into him. And the man became a living person. 
Genesis2:8 The Lord God had planted a garden in the east. It was in Eden. There he put the man he had formed. 
Genesis2:9 The Lord God made all kinds of trees grow out of the ground. Their fruit was pleasing to look at and good to eat. The tree that gives life forever was in the middle of the garden. The tree that gives the ability to tell the difference between good and evil was also there. 
Genesis2:10 A river watered the garden. It flowed from Eden. From there it separated into four other rivers. 
Genesis2:11 The name of the first river is the Pishon. It winds through the whole land of Havilah. Gold is found there. 
Genesis2:12 The gold of that land is good. Onyx and sweet-smelling resin are also found there. 
Genesis2:13 The name of the second river is the Gihon. It winds through the whole land of Cush. 
Genesis2:14 The name of the third river is the Tigris. It runs along the east side of Asshur. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. 
Genesis2:15 The Lord God put the man in the Garden of Eden. He put him there to work its ground and to take care of it. 
Genesis2:16 The Lord God gave the man a command. He said, ""You can eat the fruit of any tree that is in the garden." 
Genesis2:17 But you must not eat the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If you do, you can be sure that you will die.""" 
Genesis2:18 The Lord God said, ""It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper who is just right for him.""" 
Genesis2:19 The Lord God had formed all of the wild animals. He had also formed all of the birds of the air. He had made all of them out of the ground. He brought them to the man to see what names he would give them. And the name the man gave each living creature became its name. 
Genesis2:20 So the man gave names to all of the livestock. He gave names to all of the birds of the air. And he gave names to all of the wild animals. But Adam didn't find a helper that was right for him. 
Genesis2:21 So the Lord God caused him to fall into a deep sleep. While the man was sleeping, the Lord God took out one of his ribs. He closed up the opening that was in his side." 
Genesis2:22 Then the Lord God made a woman. He made her from the rib he had taken out of the man. And he brought her to him. 
Genesis2:23 The man said, ""Her bones have come from my bones. Her body has come from my body. She will be named 'woman,' because she was taken out of a man.""" 
Genesis2:24 That's why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. The two of them will become one. 
Genesis2:25 The man and his wife were both naked. They didn't feel any shame. 
Genesis3:1 The serpent was more clever than any of the wild animals the Lord God had made. The serpent said to the woman, ""Did God really say, 'You must not eat the fruit of any tree that is in the garden'?""" 
Genesis3:2 The woman said to the serpent, ""We can eat the fruit of the trees that are in the garden." 
Genesis3:3 But God did say, 'You must not eat the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of the garden. Do not even touch it. If you do, you will die.' """ 
Genesis3:4 You can be sure that you won't die,"" the serpent said to the woman." 
Genesis3:5 God knows that when you eat the fruit of that tree, you will know things you have never known before. You will be able to tell the difference between good and evil. You will be like God.""" 
Genesis3:6 The woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good to eat. It was also pleasing to look at. And it would make a person wise. So she took some of the fruit and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her. And he ate it." 
Genesis3:7 Then both of them knew things they had never known before. They realized they were naked. So they sewed fig leaves together and made clothes for themselves. 
Genesis3:8 Then the man and his wife heard the Lord God walking in the garden. It was the coolest time of the day. They hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. 
Genesis3:9 But the Lord God called out to the man. Where are you? he asked. 
Genesis3:10 I heard you in the garden,"" the man answered. ""I was afraid. I was naked, so I hid.""" 
Genesis3:11 The Lord God said, ""Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten the fruit of the tree I commanded you not to eat?""" 
Genesis3:12 The man said, ""It was the woman you put here with me. She gave me some fruit from the tree. And I ate it.""" 
Genesis3:13 Then the Lord God said to the woman, ""What have you done?"" The woman said, ""The serpent tricked me. That's why I ate the fruit.""" 
Genesis3:14 So the Lord God spoke to the serpent. He said, ""Because you have done this, ""I am putting a curse on you. You are cursed more than all of the livestock and all of the wild animals. You will crawl on the ground. You will eat dust all of the days of your life." 
Genesis3:15 I will put hatred between you and the woman. Your children and her children will be enemies. Her son will crush your head. And you will crush his heel. 
Genesis3:16 The Lord God said to the woman, ""I will greatly increase your pain when you give birth. You will be in pain when you have children. You will long for your husband. And he will rule over you.""" 
Genesis3:17 The Lord God said to Adam, ""You listened to your wife. You ate the fruit of the tree that I commanded you about. I said, 'You must not eat its fruit.' ""So I am putting a curse on the ground because of what you did. All the days of your life you will have to work hard to get food from the ground." 
Genesis3:18 You will eat the plants of the field, even though the ground produces thorns and thistles." 
Genesis3:19 You will have to work hard and sweat a lot to produce the food you eat. You were made out of the ground. And you will return to it. You are dust. So you will return to it. 
Genesis3:20 Adam named his wife Eve. She would become the mother of every living person. 
Genesis3:21 The Lord God made clothes out of animal skins for Adam and his wife to wear. 
Genesis3:22 The Lord God said, ""The man has become like one of us. He can now tell the difference between good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and pick fruit from the tree of life and eat it. If he does, he will live forever.""" 
Genesis3:23 So the Lord God drove the man out of the Garden of Eden to work the ground he had been made out of. 
Genesis3:24 The Lord God drove him out and then placed cherubim on the east side of the Garden of Eden. He also placed a flaming sword there. It flashed back and forth. The cherubim and the sword guarded the way to the tree of life. 
Genesis4:1 Adam made love to his wife Eve. She became pregnant and gave birth to Cain. She said, ""With the Lord's help I have had a baby boy.""" 
Genesis4:2 Later she gave birth to his brother Abel. Abel took care of sheep. Cain worked the ground. 
Genesis4:3 After some time, Cain gathered some of the things he had grown. He brought them as an offering to the Lord." 
Genesis4:4 But Abel brought the fattest parts of some of the lambs from his flock. They were the male animals that were born first to their mothers. The Lord was pleased with Abel and his offering. 
Genesis4:5 But he wasn't pleased with Cain and his offering. So Cain became very angry. His face was sad. 
Genesis4:6 Then the Lord said to Cain, ""Why are you angry? Why are you looking so sad?" 
Genesis4:7 Do what is right. Then you will be accepted. If you don't do what is right, sin is waiting at your door to grab you. It longs to have you. But you must rule over it.""" 
Genesis4:8 Cain said to his brother Abel, ""Let's go out to the field."" So they went out. There Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him." 
Genesis4:9 Then the Lord said to Cain, ""Where is your brother Abel?"" ""I don't know,"" he replied. ""Am I supposed to look after my brother?""" 
Genesis4:10 The Lord said, ""What have you done? Listen! Your brother's blood is crying out to me from the ground." 
Genesis4:11 So I am putting a curse on you. I am driving you away from the ground. It has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. 
Genesis4:12 When you work the ground, it will not produce its crops for you anymore. You will be a restless person who wanders around on the earth.""" 
Genesis4:13 Cain said to the Lord, ""You are punishing me more than I can take." 
Genesis4:14 Today you are driving me away from the land. I will be hidden from you. I'll be a restless person who wanders around on the earth. Anyone who finds me will kill me. 
Genesis4:15 But the Lord said to him, ""No. Anyone who kills you will be paid back seven times."" The Lord put a mark on Cain. Then anyone who found him wouldn't kill him." 
Genesis4:16 So Cain went away from the Lord. He lived in the land of Nod. It was east of Eden. 
Genesis4:17 Cain made love to his wife. She became pregnant and gave birth to Enoch. At that time Cain was building a city. He named it after his son Enoch. 
Genesis4:18 Enoch had a son named Irad. Irad was the father of Mehujael. Mehujael was the father of Methushael. And Methushael was the father of Lamech. 
Genesis4:19 Lamech married two women. One was named Adah, and the other was named Zillah." 
Genesis4:20 Adah gave birth to Jabal. He was the father of those who live in tents and raise livestock. 
Genesis4:21 His brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of everyone who plays the harp and flute. 
Genesis4:22 Zillah also had a son. His name was Tubal-Cain. He made all kinds of tools out of bronze and iron. Tubal-Cain's sister was Naamah. 
Genesis4:23 Lamech said to his wives, ""Adah and Zillah, listen to me. You wives of Lamech, hear my words. I have killed a man because he wounded me. I have killed a young man because he hurt me." 
Genesis4:24 Anyone who would have killed Cain would have been paid back seven times. But anyone who hurts me will be paid back 77 times. 
Genesis4:25 Adam made love to his wife again. She gave birth to a son and named him Seth. She said, ""God has given me another child. The child will take the place of Abel, because Cain killed him.""" 
Genesis4:26 Seth also had a son. He named him Enosh. At that time people began to worship the Lord. 
Genesis5:1 Here is the written story of Adam's family line. When God created man, he made him in his own likeness." 
Genesis5:2 He created them as male and female. He blessed them. And he called them man when they were created. 
Genesis5:3 When Adam was 130 years old, he had a son in his own likeness. He named him Seth." 
Genesis5:4 Adam lived 800 years after Seth was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:5 Adam lived a total of 930 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:6 Seth lived 105 years. Then he became the father of Enosh. 
Genesis5:7 Seth lived 807 years after Enosh was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:8 Seth lived a total of 912 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:9 Enosh lived 90 years. Then he became the father of Kenan. 
Genesis5:10 Enosh lived 815 years after Kenan was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:11 Enosh lived a total of 905 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:12 Kenan lived 70 years. Then he became the father of Mahalalel. 
Genesis5:13 Kenan lived 840 years after Mahalalel was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:14 Kenan lived a total of 910 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:15 Mahalalel lived 65 years. Then he became the father of Jared. 
Genesis5:16 Mahalalel lived 830 years after Jared was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:17 Mahalalel lived a total of 895 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:18 Jared lived 162 years. Then he became the father of Enoch. 
Genesis5:19 Jared lived 800 years after Enoch was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:20 Jared lived a total of 962 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:21 Enoch lived 65 years. Then he became the father of Methuselah. 
Genesis5:22 Enoch walked with God 300 years after Methuselah was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:23 Enoch lived a total of 365 years. 
Genesis5:24 Enoch walked with God. Then he couldn't be found, because God took him from this life." 
Genesis5:25 Methuselah lived 187 years. Then he became the father of Lamech. 
Genesis5:26 Methuselah lived 782 years after Lamech was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:27 Methuselah lived a total of 969 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:28 Lamech lived 182 years. Then he had a son. 
Genesis5:29 He named him Noah. Lamech said, ""He will comfort us when we are working. He'll comfort us when our hands work so hard they hurt. We have to work hard. That's because the Lord has put a curse on the ground.""" 
Genesis5:30 Lamech lived 595 years after Noah was born. He also had other sons and daughters. 
Genesis5:31 Lamech lived a total of 777 years. Then he died. 
Genesis5:32 After Noah was 500 years old, he became the father of Shem, Ham and Japheth." 
Genesis6:1 Men began to increase their numbers on the earth, and daughters were born to them." 
Genesis6:2 The sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful. So they married any of them they chose. 
Genesis6:3 Then the Lord said, ""My Spirit will not struggle with man forever. He will die. He will have only 120 years to live until I judge him.""" 
Genesis6:4 The Nephilim were on the earth in those days. That was when the sons of God went to the daughters of men and had children by them. The Nephilim were the heroes of long ago. They were famous men. Nephilim were also on the earth later on. 
Genesis6:5 The Lord saw how bad the sins of man had become on the earth. All of the thoughts in his heart were always directed only toward what was evil. 
Genesis6:6 The Lord was very sad that he had made man on the earth. His heart was filled with pain. 
Genesis6:7 So the Lord said, ""I created man on the earth. But I will wipe them out. I will destroy people and animals alike. I will also destroy the creatures that move along the ground and the birds of the air. I am very sad that I have made man.""" 
Genesis6:8 But the Lord was pleased with Noah. 
Genesis6:9 Here is the story of Noah. Noah was a godly man. He was without blame among the people of his time. He walked with God. 
Genesis6:10 Noah had three sons. Their names were Shem, Ham and Japheth." 
Genesis6:11 The earth was very sinful in God's eyes. It was full of mean and harmful acts. 
Genesis6:12 God saw how sinful the earth had become. All of the people on earth were leading very sinful lives. 
Genesis6:13 So God said to Noah, ""I am going to put an end to all people. They have filled the earth with their harmful acts. You can be sure that I am going to destroy both them and the earth." 
Genesis6:14 So make yourself an ark out of cypress wood. Make rooms in it. Cover it with tar inside and out. 
Genesis6:15 Here is how I want you to build it. The ark has to be 450 feet long. It has to be 75 feet wide and 45 feet high. 
Genesis6:16 Make a roof for it. Leave the sides of the ark open a foot and a half from the top. Put a door in one side of the ark. Make lower, middle and upper decks." 
Genesis6:17 I am going to bring a flood on the earth. It will destroy all life under the sky. It will destroy every living creature that breathes. Everything on earth will die. 
Genesis6:18 But I will make my covenant with you. You will enter the ark. Your sons and your wife and your sons' wives will enter it with you. 
Genesis6:19 Bring two of every living thing into the ark. Bring male and female of them into it. They will be kept alive with you. 
Genesis6:20 Two of every kind of bird will come to you. Two of every kind of animal will come to you. And two of every kind of creature that moves along the ground will come to you. All of them will be kept alive with you. 
Genesis6:21 Take every kind of food that you will need. Store it away. It will be food for you and for them. 
Genesis6:22 Noah did everything exactly as God commanded him. 
Genesis7:1 Then the Lord said to Noah, ""Go into the ark with your whole family. I know that you are a godly man among the people of today." 
Genesis7:2 Take seven of every kind of 'clean' animal with you. Take male and female of them. Take two of every kind of animal that is not 'clean.' Take male and female of them. 
Genesis7:3 Also take seven of every kind of bird. Take male and female of them. That will keep every kind alive. Then they can spread out again over the whole earth. 
Genesis7:4 Seven days from now I will send rain on the earth. It will rain for 40 days and 40 nights. I will destroy from the face of the earth every living thing I have made. 
Genesis7:5 Noah did everything the Lord commanded him to do. 
Genesis7:6 Noah was 600 years old when the flood came on the earth. 
Genesis7:7 He and his sons entered the ark. His wife and his sons' wives went with them. They entered the ark to escape the waters of the flood. 
Genesis7:8 Pairs of clean animals and pairs of animals that were not clean came to Noah. So did pairs of birds and pairs of all of the creatures that move along the ground. 
Genesis7:9 Male and female of all of them came to Noah and entered the ark. Everything happened exactly as God had commanded Noah. 
Genesis7:10 After seven days the flood came on the earth. 
Genesis7:11 Noah was 600 years old. It was the 17th day of the second month of the year. On that day all of the springs at the bottom of the oceans burst open. God opened the windows of the skies. 
Genesis7:12 Rain fell on the earth for 40 days and 40 nights. 
Genesis7:13 On that same day Noah entered the ark together with Shem, Ham and Japheth. Noah's wife and the wives of his three sons also entered it." 
Genesis7:14 They had every kind of wild animal with them. They had every kind of livestock. They had every kind of creature that moves along the ground. And they had every kind of bird that flies. 
Genesis7:15 Pairs of all living creatures that breathe came to Noah and entered the ark. 
Genesis7:16 The animals going in were male and female of every living thing. Everything happened exactly as God had commanded Noah. Then the Lord shut him in. 
Genesis7:17 For 40 days the flood kept coming on the earth. As the waters rose higher, they lifted the ark high above the earth." 
Genesis7:18 The waters rose higher and higher on the earth. And the ark floated on the water. 
Genesis7:19 The waters rose on the earth until all of the high mountains under the entire sky were covered. 
Genesis7:20 The waters continued to rise until they covered the mountains by more than 20 feet. 
Genesis7:21 Every living thing that moved on the earth died. The birds, the livestock and the wild animals died. All of the creatures that fill the earth also died. And so did every human being." 
Genesis7:22 Everything on dry land that had the breath of life in it died. 
Genesis7:23 Every living thing on the earth was wiped out. People and animals were destroyed. The creatures that move along the ground and the birds of the air were wiped out. Everything was destroyed from the earth. Only Noah and those who were with him in the ark were left. 
Genesis7:24 The waters flooded the earth for 150 days. 
Genesis8:1 But God showed concern for Noah. He also showed concern for all of the wild animals and livestock that were with Noah in the ark. So God sent a wind over the earth. And the waters began to go down. 
Genesis8:2 The springs at the bottom of the oceans had been closed. The windows of the skies had been closed. And the rain had stopped falling from the sky. 
Genesis8:3 The water continued to go down from the earth. At the end of the 150 days the water had gone down. 
Genesis8:4 On the 17th day of the seventh month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat." 
Genesis8:5 The waters continued to go down until the tenth month. On the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains could be seen." 
Genesis8:6 After 40 days Noah opened the window he had made in the ark. 
Genesis8:7 He sent a raven out. It kept flying back and forth until the water had dried up from the earth. 
Genesis8:8 Then Noah sent a dove out. He wanted to see if the water had gone down from the surface of the ground. 
Genesis8:9 But the dove couldn't find any place to put its feet down. There was still water over the whole surface of the earth. So the dove returned to Noah in the ark. Noah reached out his hand and took the dove in. He brought it back to himself in the ark. 
Genesis8:10 He waited seven more days. Then he sent the dove out from the ark again. 
Genesis8:11 In the evening the dove returned to him. There in its beak was a freshly picked olive leaf! So Noah knew that the water on the earth had gone down. 
Genesis8:12 He waited seven more days. Then he sent the dove out again. But that time it didn't return to him. 
Genesis8:13 It was the first day of the first month of Noah's 601st year. The water had dried up from the earth. Then Noah removed the covering from the ark. He saw that the surface of the ground was dry. 
Genesis8:14 By the 27th day of the second month the earth was completely dry. 
Genesis8:15 Then God said to Noah," 
Genesis8:16 Come out of the ark. Bring your wife and your sons and their wives with you. 
Genesis8:17 Bring out every kind of living thing that is with you. Bring the birds, the animals, and all of the creatures that move along the ground. Then they can multiply on the earth. They can have little ones and increase their numbers.""" 
Genesis8:18 So Noah came out of the ark. His sons and his wife and his sons' wives were with him. 
Genesis8:19 All of the animals came out of the ark. The creatures that move along the ground also came out. So did all of the birds. Everything that moves on the earth came out of the ark. One kind after another came out. 
Genesis8:20 Then Noah built an altar to honor the Lord. He took some of all of the clean animals and birds. He sacrificed burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar. 
Genesis8:21 Their smell was pleasant to the Lord. He said to himself, ""I will never put a curse on the ground again because of man. I will not do it even though his heart is always directed toward what is evil. His thoughts are evil from the time he is young. I will never destroy all living things again, as I have just done." 
Genesis8:22 As long as the earth lasts, there will always be a time to plant and a time to gather the crops. As long as the earth lasts, there will always be cold and heat. There will always be summer and winter, day and night.""" 
Genesis9:1 Then God gave his blessing to Noah and his sons. He said to them, ""Have children and increase your numbers. Fill the earth." 
Genesis9:2 All of the land animals will be afraid of you. All of the birds of the air will fear you. Every creature that moves along the ground will fear you. Every fish in the oceans will also be afraid of you. Every living thing is put under your control. 
Genesis9:3 Everything that lives and moves will be food for you. I have already given you the green plants for food. Now I am giving you everything. 
Genesis9:4 But you must not eat meat that still has blood in it. 
Genesis9:5 You can be sure that I will hold someone accountable if you are murdered. I will even hold animals accountable if they kill you. I will also hold anyone accountable who murders another person. 
Genesis9:6 Anyone who murders man will be killed by man. That is because I have made man in my own likeness. 
Genesis9:7 Have children and increase your numbers. Multiply on the earth and increase your numbers on it. 
Genesis9:8 Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons who were with him. He said," 
Genesis9:9 I am now making my covenant with you and with all of your children who will be born after you. 
Genesis9:10 I am making it also with every living thing that was with you in the ark. I am making my covenant with the birds, the livestock and all of the wild animals. I am making it with all of the creatures that came out of the ark with you. I am making it with every living thing on earth." 
Genesis9:11 Here is my covenant that I am making with you. The waters of a flood will never destroy all life again. A flood will never destroy the earth again. 
Genesis9:12 God continued, ""My covenant is between me and you and every living thing with you. It is a covenant for all time to come. ""Here is the sign of the covenant I am making." 
Genesis9:13 I have put my rainbow in the clouds. It will be the sign of the covenant between me and the earth. 
Genesis9:14 Sometimes when I bring clouds over the earth, a rainbow will appear in them." 
Genesis9:15 Then I will remember my covenant between me and you and every kind of living thing. The waters will never become a flood to destroy all life again. 
Genesis9:16 When the rainbow appears in the clouds, I will see it. I will remember that my covenant will last forever. It is a covenant between me and every kind of living thing on earth.""" 
Genesis9:17 So God said to Noah, ""The rainbow is the sign of my covenant. I have made my covenant between me and all life on earth.""" 
Genesis9:18 The sons of Noah who came out of the ark were Shem, Ham and Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan." 
Genesis9:19 The people who were scattered over the earth came from Noah's three sons. 
Genesis9:20 Noah was a man who worked the ground. He decided to plant a vineyard. 
Genesis9:21 He drank some of its wine. It made him drunk. Then he lay down inside his tent without any clothes on. 
Genesis9:22 Ham saw his father's naked body. Ham was the father of Canaan. Ham went outside and told his two brothers. 
Genesis9:23 But Shem and Japheth took a piece of clothing. They laid it across their shoulders. Then they walked backward into the tent. They covered their father's body. They turned their faces away. They didn't want to see their father's naked body. 
Genesis9:24 Then Noah woke up from his sleep that was caused by the wine. He found out what his youngest son had done to him. 
Genesis9:25 He said, ""May a curse be put on Canaan. He will be the lowest of slaves to his brothers.""" 
Genesis9:26 Noah also said, ""May the Lord, the God of Shem, be blessed. May Canaan be the slave of Shem." 
Genesis9:27 May God add land to Japheth's territory. May Japheth live in the tents of Shem. And may Canaan be their slave. 
Genesis9:28 After the flood Noah lived 350 years. 
Genesis9:29 Noah lived a total of 950 years. Then he died. 
Genesis10:1 Here is the story of Shem, Ham and Japheth. They were Noah's sons. After the flood, they too had sons." 
Genesis10:2 The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras." 
Genesis10:3 The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah." 
Genesis10:4 The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim and the Rodanites." 
Genesis10:5 The people who lived by the sea came from all of them. Their tribes and nations spread out into their own territories. Each tribe and nation had its own language. 
Genesis10:6 The sons of Ham were Cush, Egypt, Put and Canaan." 
Genesis10:7 The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan." 
Genesis10:8 Cush was the father of Nimrod. Nimrod grew up to be a mighty hero on the earth. 
Genesis10:9 He was a mighty hunter in the Lord's eyes. That's why people sometimes compare others with Nimrod. They say, ""They are like Nimrod, who is a mighty hunter in the Lord's eyes.""" 
Genesis10:10 At first Nimrod's kingdom was made up of Babylon, Erech, Akkad and Calneh. Those cities were in the land of Babylonia." 
Genesis10:11 From that land he went to Assyria. There he built Nineveh, Rehoboth Ir and Calah." 
Genesis10:12 He also built Resen. It is between Nineveh and Calah. Nineveh is the great city. 
Genesis10:13 Egypt was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites and Naphtuhites." 
Genesis10:14 He was also the father of the Pathrusites, Casluhites and Caphtorites. The Philistines came from the Casluhites." 
Genesis10:15 Canaan was the father of Sidon. Sidon was his oldest son. Canaan was also the father of the Hittites," 
Genesis10:16 Jebusites, Amorites and Girgashites." 
Genesis10:17 And he was the father of the Hivites, Arkites, Sinites," 
Genesis10:18 Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites. Later the Canaanite tribes scattered." 
Genesis10:19 The borders of Canaan went from Sidon toward Gerar all the way to Gaza. Then they went toward Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim all the way to Lasha." 
Genesis10:20 Those are the sons of Ham. They are listed by their tribes and languages in their territories and nations. 
Genesis10:21 Sons were also born to Shem. Shem was Japheth's younger brother. All of the sons of Eber came from Shem. 
Genesis10:22 The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram." 
Genesis10:23 The sons of Aram were Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech." 
Genesis10:24 Arphaxad was the father of Shelah. Shelah was the father of Eber. 
Genesis10:25 Eber was the father of two sons. One was named Peleg. That's because the earth was divided up in his time. His brother was named Joktan. 
Genesis10:26 Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth and Jerah." 
Genesis10:27 He was also the father of Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
Genesis10:28 Obal, Abimael, Sheba," 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All of them were sons of Joktan." 
Genesis10:29 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All of them were sons of Joktan." 
Genesis10:30 The area where they lived stretched from Mesha toward Sephar. It was in the eastern hill country. 
Genesis10:31 Those are the sons of Shem. They are listed by their tribes and languages in their territories and nations. 
Genesis10:32 Those are the tribes of Noah's sons. They are listed by their family lines within their nations. From them the nations spread out over the earth after the flood. 
Genesis11:1 The whole world had only one language. All people spoke it. 
Genesis11:2 They moved to the east and found a broad valley in Babylonia. There they settled down. 
Genesis11:3 They said to each other, ""Come. Let's make bricks and bake them well."" They used bricks instead of stones. They used tar to hold the bricks together." 
Genesis11:4 Then they said, ""Come. Let's build a city for ourselves. Let's build a tower that reaches to the sky. We'll make a name for ourselves. Then we won't be scattered over the face of the whole earth.""" 
Genesis11:5 But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower the people were building. 
Genesis11:6 The Lord said, ""They are one people. And all of them speak the same language. That is why they can do this. Now they will be able to do anything they plan to." 
Genesis11:7 Come. Let us go down and mix up their language. Then they will not understand each other. 
Genesis11:8 So the Lord scattered them from there over the whole earth. And they stopped building the city. 
Genesis11:9 The Lord mixed up the language of the whole world there. That's why the city was named Babel. From there the Lord scattered them over the face of the whole earth. 
Genesis11:10 Here is the story of Shem. It was two years after the flood. When Shem was 100 years old, he became the father of Arphaxad." 
Genesis11:11 After Arphaxad was born, Shem lived 500 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:12 When Arphaxad had lived 35 years, he became the father of Shelah." 
Genesis11:13 After Shelah was born, Arphaxad lived 403 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:14 When Shelah had lived 30 years, he became the father of Eber." 
Genesis11:15 After Eber was born, Shelah lived 403 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:16 When Eber had lived 34 years, he became the father of Peleg." 
Genesis11:17 After Peleg was born, Eber lived 430 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:18 When Peleg had lived 30 years, he became the father of Reu." 
Genesis11:19 After Reu was born, Peleg lived 209 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:20 When Reu had lived 32 years, he became the father of Serug." 
Genesis11:21 After Serug was born, Reu lived 207 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:22 When Serug had lived 30 years, he became the father of Nahor." 
Genesis11:23 After Nahor was born, Serug lived 200 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:24 When Nahor had lived 29 years, he became the father of Terah." 
Genesis11:25 After Terah was born, Nahor lived 119 years. And he had other sons and daughters." 
Genesis11:26 Terah lived for 70 years. Then he became the father of Abram, Nahor and Haran." 
Genesis11:27 Here is the story of Terah. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor and Haran. And Haran became the father of Lot." 
Genesis11:28 Haran died in Ur in Babylonia. That was the land where he had been born. Haran died while his father Terah was still alive. 
Genesis11:29 Abram and Nahor both got married. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai. The name of Nahor's wife was Milcah. She was the daughter of Haran. Haran was the father of Milcah and Iscah. 
Genesis11:30 But Sarai wasn't able to have children. 
Genesis11:31 Terah started out from Ur in Babylonia. He took his son Abram with him. He also took his grandson Lot. Lot was the son of Haran. And Terah took his daughter-in-law Sarai. She was the wife of his son Abram. All of them left together to go to Canaan. But when they came to Haran, they settled down." 
Genesis11:32 Terah lived for 205 years. He died in Haran. 
Genesis12:1 The Lord had said to Abram, ""Leave your country and your people. Leave your father's family. Go to the land I will show you." 
Genesis12:2 I will make you into a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great. You will be a blessing to others. 
Genesis12:3 I will bless those who bless you. I will put a curse on anyone who calls down a curse on you. All nations on earth will be blessed because of you. 
Genesis12:4 So Abram left, just as the Lord had told him. Lot went with him. Abram was 75 years old when he left Haran." 
Genesis12:5 He took his wife Sarai and his nephew Lot. They took all of the things they had gotten in Haran. They also took the workers they had gotten there. They set out for the land of Canaan. And they arrived there. 
Genesis12:6 Abram traveled through the land. He went as far as the large tree of Moreh at Shechem. At that time the people of Canaan were living in the land. 
Genesis12:7 The Lord appeared to Abram at Shechem. He said, ""I will give this land to your children after you."" So Abram built an altar there to honor the Lord, who had appeared to him." 
Genesis12:8 From there, Abram went on toward the hills east of Bethel. He set up his tent there. Bethel was to the west, and Ai was to the east. Abram built an altar there and worshiped the Lord." 
Genesis12:9 Then Abram left and continued toward the Negev Desert. 
Genesis12:10 At that time there wasn't enough food in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to live there for a while. 
Genesis12:11 As he was about to enter Egypt, he spoke to his wife Sarai. He said, ""I know what a beautiful woman you are." 
Genesis12:12 The people of Egypt will see you. They will say, 'This is his wife.' And they will kill me. But they will let you live." 
Genesis12:13 Say you are my sister. Then I'll be treated well because of you. My life will be spared because of you. 
Genesis12:14 Abram arrived in Egypt. The people of Egypt saw that Sarai was a very beautiful woman. 
Genesis12:15 When Pharaoh's officials saw her, they bragged to Pharaoh about her. Sarai was taken into his palace." 
Genesis12:16 Pharaoh treated Abram well because of her. So Abram gained more sheep and cattle. He also got more male and female donkeys. And he gained more male and female servants and some camels. 
Genesis12:17 But the Lord sent terrible sicknesses on Pharaoh and everyone in his palace. He did it because of Abram's wife Sarai. 
Genesis12:18 So Pharaoh sent for Abram. What have you done to me? he said. Why didn't you tell me she was your wife? 
Genesis12:19 Why did you say, 'She's my sister'? That's why I took her to be my wife. Now then, here's your wife. Take her and go!""" 
Genesis12:20 Then Pharaoh gave orders about Abram to his men. They sent him on his way. He left with his wife and everything he had. 
Genesis13:1 Abram went up from Egypt to the Negev Desert. He took his wife and everything he had. Lot went with him. 
Genesis13:2 Abram had become very rich. He had a lot of livestock and silver and gold. 
Genesis13:3 From the Negev Desert, he went from place to place until he came to Bethel. He came to a place between Bethel and Ai. That's where his tent had been earlier." 
Genesis13:4 He had also built an altar there. He worshiped the Lord there. 
Genesis13:5 Lot was moving around with Abram. Lot also had flocks and herds and tents. 
Genesis13:6 But the land didn't have enough food for both of them. They had large herds and many servants. So they weren't able to stay together. 
Genesis13:7 The people who took care of Abram's herds and those who took care of Lot's herds began to argue. The Canaanites and Perizzites were also living in the land at that time. 
Genesis13:8 So Abram said to Lot, ""Let's not argue with each other. The people who take care of your herds and those who take care of mine shouldn't argue with one another. After all, we're part of the same family." 
Genesis13:9 Isn't the whole land in front of you? Let's separate. If you go to the left, I'll go to the right. If you go to the right, I'll go to the left.""" 
Genesis13:10 Lot looked up. He saw that the whole Jordan River valley had plenty of water. It was like the garden of the Lord. It was like the land of Egypt near Zoar. That was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. 
Genesis13:11 So Lot chose the whole Jordan River valley for himself. Then he started out toward the east. The two men separated. 
Genesis13:12 Abram lived in the land of Canaan. Lot lived among the cities of the Jordan River valley. He set up his tents near Sodom. 
Genesis13:13 The men of Sodom were evil. They were sinning greatly against the Lord. 
Genesis13:14 The Lord spoke to Abram after Lot had left him. He said, ""Look up from where you are. Look north and south. Look east and west." 
Genesis13:15 I will give you all of the land that you see. I will give it to you and your children after you forever. 
Genesis13:16 I will make your children like the dust of the earth. Can dust be counted? If it can, then your children can be counted." 
Genesis13:17 Go. Walk through the land. See how long and wide it is. I am giving it to you. 
Genesis13:18 So Abram moved his tents. He went to live near the large trees of Mamre at Hebron. There he built an altar to honor the Lord. 
Genesis14:1 At that time Amraphel was the king of Babylonia. Arioch was the king of Ellasar. Kedorlaomer was the king of Elam. And Tidal was the king of Goiim. 
Genesis14:2 They went to war against five kings. The kings were Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela. Bela was also called Zoar." 
Genesis14:3 Those five kings all gathered their armies together in the Valley of Siddim. It was the valley of the Dead Sea. 
Genesis14:4 For 12 years they had been under the rule of Kedorlaomer. But in the 13th year they opposed him. 
Genesis14:5 In the 14th year, Kedorlaomer and the kings who helped him went to war. They won the battle against the Rephaites in Ashteroth Karnaim. They also won the battle against the Zuzites in Ham and the Emites in Shaveh Kiriathaim." 
Genesis14:6 They did the same thing to the Horites in the hill country of Seir. They marched all the way to El Paran near the desert. 
Genesis14:7 Then they turned back. They went to En Mishpat. En Mishpat was also called Kadesh. They took over the whole territory of the Amalekites. They also won the battle against the Amorites who were living in Hazazon Tamar. 
Genesis14:8 Then the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah marched out. The kings of Admah, Zeboiim and Bela went with them. Bela was also called Zoar. They lined up their armies for battle in the Valley of Siddim." 
Genesis14:9 They got ready to fight against Kedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of Goiim, Amraphel king of Babylonia, and Arioch king of Ellasar. There were four kings against five." 
Genesis14:10 The Valley of Siddim was full of tar pits. The kings of Sodom and Gomorrah ran away from the battle. Some of their men fell into the pits. The rest escaped to the hills. 
Genesis14:11 The four kings took all of the things that belonged to Sodom and Gomorrah. They also took all of their food. Then they went away. 
Genesis14:12 They carried away Lot, Abram's nephew, and the things he owned. Lot was living in Sodom at that time." 
Genesis14:13 One man escaped. He came and reported everything to Abram. Abram was a Hebrew. He was living near the large trees of Mamre the Amorite. Mamre was a brother of Eshcol and Aner. All of them helped Abram. 
Genesis14:14 Abram heard that Lot had been captured. So he called out his 318 trained men. All of them were sons of his servants. They chased the enemy as far as Dan. 
Genesis14:15 During the night Abram separated his men into groups. They attacked the enemy and drove them away. They chased them north of Damascus as far as Hobah. 
Genesis14:16 Abram took back all of the things the kings had taken. He brought back his nephew Lot and the things Lot owned. He also brought back the women and the other people. 
Genesis14:17 After Abram won the battle over Kedorlaomer and the kings who helped him, he returned. The king of Sodom came out to meet him in the Valley of Shaveh. The Valley of Shaveh was also called the King's Valley." 
Genesis14:18 Melchizedek was the king of Jerusalem. He brought out bread and wine. He was the priest of God Most High. 
Genesis14:19 He gave a blessing to Abram. He said, ""May God Most High bless Abram. May the Creator of heaven and earth bless him." 
Genesis14:20 Give praise to God Most High. He gave your enemies into your hand. Then Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth of everything. 
Genesis14:21 The king of Sodom said to Abram, ""Give me the people. Keep everything else for yourself.""" 
Genesis14:22 But Abram said to the king of Sodom, ""I have raised my hand to the Lord. He is God Most High. He is the Creator of heaven and earth. I have taken an oath." 
Genesis14:23 I have said that I won't accept anything that belongs to you. I won't take even a thread or the strap of a sandal. You will never be able to say, 'I made Abram rich.'" 
Genesis14:24 I'll accept only what my men have eaten and what belongs to Aner, Eshcol and Mamre. Those three men went with me. Let them have their share.""" 
Genesis15:1 Some time later, Abram had a vision. The Lord said to him, ""Abram, do not be afraid. I am like a shield to you. I am your very great reward.""" 
Genesis15:2 But Abram said, ""Lord and King, what can you give me? I still don't have any children. My servant Eliezer comes from Damascus. When I die, he will get everything I own.""" 
Genesis15:3 Abram continued, ""You haven't given me any children. So a servant in my house will get everything I own.""" 
Genesis15:4 Then a message came to Abram from the Lord. He said, ""This man will not get what belongs to you. A son will come from your own body. He will get everything you own.""" 
Genesis15:5 The Lord took Abram outside and said, ""Look up at the sky. Count the stars, if you can."" Then he said to him, ""That is how many children you will have.""" 
Genesis15:6 Abram believed the Lord. The Lord accepted Abram because he believed. So his faith made him right with the Lord. 
Genesis15:7 He also said to Abram, ""I am the Lord. I brought you out of Ur in Babylonia. I wanted to give you this land to take as your very own.""" 
Genesis15:8 But Abram said, ""Lord and King, how can I know I will take this land as my own?""" 
Genesis15:9 So the Lord said to him, ""Bring me a young cow. Also bring a goat and a ram. All of them must be three years old. Bring a dove and a young pigeon along with them.""" 
Genesis15:10 Abram brought all of them to the Lord. Abram cut them in two. He placed the halves opposite each other. But he didn't cut the birds in half. 
Genesis15:11 Then large birds came down to eat the dead bodies of the animals and birds. But Abram chased the large birds away. 
Genesis15:12 As the sun was going down, Abram fell into a deep sleep. A thick and terrible darkness covered him." 
Genesis15:13 Then the Lord said to him, ""You can be sure of what I am about to tell you. Your children who live after you will be strangers in a country that does not belong to them. They will become slaves. They will be treated badly for 400 years." 
Genesis15:14 But I will punish the nation that makes them slaves. After that, they will leave with all kinds of valuable things." 
Genesis15:15 But you will die in peace. You will join the members of your family who have already died. You will be buried when you are very old. 
Genesis15:16 Your children's grandchildren will come back here. That is because the sin of the Amorites has not yet reached the point where I must judge them. 
Genesis15:17 The sun set and darkness fell. Then a burning torch and a fire pot filled with smoke appeared. They passed between the pieces of the animals. 
Genesis15:18 On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram. He said, ""I am giving this land to your children after you. It reaches from the river of Egypt to the great river Euphrates." 
Genesis15:19 It includes the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites," 
Genesis15:20 Hittites, Perizzites and Rephaites." 
Genesis15:21 The Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites and Jebusites also live there.""" 
Genesis16:1 Abram's wife Sarai had never had any children by him. But she had a female servant from Egypt named Hagar. 
Genesis16:2 So she said to Abram, ""The Lord has kept me from having children. Go and make love to my servant. Maybe I can have a family through her."" Abram agreed to what Sarai had said." 
Genesis16:3 After he had been living in Canaan for ten years, his wife Sarai gave him her servant Hagar to be his wife." 
Genesis16:4 He made love to Hagar. And she became pregnant. When Hagar knew she was pregnant, she began to look down on the woman who owned her." 
Genesis16:5 Then Sarai said to Abram, ""It's your fault that I'm suffering like this. I put my servant in your arms. Now that she knows she's pregnant, she looks down on me. May the Lord judge between you and me. May he decide which of us is right.""" 
Genesis16:6 Your servant belongs to you,"" Abram said. ""Do with her what you think is best."" Then Sarai treated Hagar badly. So Hagar ran away from her." 
Genesis16:7 The angel of the Lord found Hagar near a spring of water in the desert. The spring was beside the road to Shur. 
Genesis16:8 He said, ""Hagar, you are the servant of Sarai. Where have you come from? Where are you going?"" ""I'm running away from my owner Sarai,"" she answered." 
Genesis16:9 Then the angel of the Lord told her, ""Go back to the woman who owns you. Obey her.""" 
Genesis16:10 The angel continued, ""I will greatly increase the number of your children after you. You will have more of them than anyone can count.""" 
Genesis16:11 The angel of the Lord also said to her, ""You are now pregnant. You will have a son. You will name him Ishmael. That is because the Lord has heard about your suffering." 
Genesis16:12 He will be like a wild donkey. He will use his power against everyone. And everyone will be against him. He will not be friendly toward any of his relatives. 
Genesis16:13 She gave a name to the Lord who spoke to her. She called him You are the God who sees me. That's because she said, ""I have now seen the One who sees me.""" 
Genesis16:14 That's why the well was named Beer Lahai Roi. It's still there, between Kadesh and Bered." 
Genesis16:15 So Hagar had a son by Abram. And Abram gave the name Ishmael to the son she had by him. 
Genesis16:16 Abram was 86 years old when Hagar had Ishmael by him. 
Genesis17:1 When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to him. He said, ""I am the Mighty God. Walk with me and live without any blame." 
Genesis17:2 I will now put into practice my covenant between me and you. I will greatly increase your numbers. 
Genesis17:3 Abram fell with his face to the ground. God said to him," 
Genesis17:4 As for me, this is my covenant with you. You will be the father of many nations." 
Genesis17:5 You will not be called Abram anymore. Your name will be Abraham, because I have made you a father of many nations." 
Genesis17:6 I will give you many children. Nations will come from you. And kings will come from you. 
Genesis17:7 I will make my covenant with you. It will last forever. It will be between me and you and your children after you for all time to come. I will be your God. And I will be the God of all of your family after you. 
Genesis17:8 You are now living in Canaan as an outsider. But I will give you the whole land of Canaan. You will own it forever. So will your children after you. And I will be their God. 
Genesis17:9 Then God said to Abraham, ""As for you, you must keep my covenant. You and your children after you for all time to come must keep it." 
Genesis17:10 Here is my covenant that you and your children after you must keep. Every male among you must be circumcised. 
Genesis17:11 You must be circumcised. That will be the sign of the covenant between me and you. 
Genesis17:12 It must be done for all time to come. Every male among you who is eight days old must be circumcised. That includes those who are born in your house. It also includes those who are bought with money from a stranger. Even those who are not your own children must be included. 
Genesis17:13 Any male who is born in your house or bought with your money must be circumcised. My covenant will last forever. Your body will have the mark of my covenant on it. 
Genesis17:14 Any male who has not been circumcised will be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. 
Genesis17:15 God also said to Abraham, ""As for Sarai your wife, do not call her Sarai anymore. Her name will be Sarah." 
Genesis17:16 I will give her my blessing. You can be sure that I will give you a son by her. I will bless her so that she will be the mother of nations. Kings of nations will come from her. 
Genesis17:17 Abraham fell with his face to the ground. He laughed and said to himself, ""Will a son be born to a man who is 100 years old? Will Sarah have a child at the age of 90?""" 
Genesis17:18 Abraham said to God, ""I wish Ishmael could receive your blessing!""" 
Genesis17:19 Then God said, ""I will bless Ishmael. But your wife Sarah will have a son by you. And you will name him Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him. It will be a covenant that lasts forever. It will be for Isaac and for his family after him." 
Genesis17:20 As for Ishmael, I have heard you. You can be sure that I will bless him. I will give him children. I will greatly increase his numbers. He will be the father of 12 rulers. And I will make him into a great nation." 
Genesis17:21 But I will establish my covenant with Isaac. By this time next year, Sarah will have a son by you.""" 
Genesis17:22 When he had finished speaking with Abraham, God left him." 
Genesis17:23 On that very day Abraham circumcised his son Ishmael. He also circumcised every male who was born in his house or bought with his money. He did exactly as God had told him. 
Genesis17:24 Abraham was 99 years old when he was circumcised. 
Genesis17:25 His son Ishmael was 13. 
Genesis17:26 Abraham and his son Ishmael were both circumcised on that same day. 
Genesis17:27 And every male in Abraham's house was circumcised along with him. That included those who were born in his house or bought from a stranger. 
Genesis18:1 The Lord appeared to Abraham near the large trees of Mamre. Abraham was sitting at the entrance to his tent. It was the hottest time of the day. 
Genesis18:2 Abraham looked up and saw three men standing nearby. He quickly left the entrance to his tent to meet them. He bowed low to the ground. 
Genesis18:3 He said, ""My lord, if you are pleased with me, don't pass me by." 
Genesis18:4 Let a little water be brought. All of you can wash your feet and rest under this tree. 
Genesis18:5 Let me get you something to eat to give you strength. Then you can go on your way. I want to do this for you now that you have come to me. All right,"" they answered. ""Go ahead and do it.""" 
Genesis18:6 So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah. Quick! he said. Get about half a bushel of fine flour. Mix it and bake some bread. 
Genesis18:7 Then he ran to the herd. He picked out a choice, tender calf. He gave it to a servant, who hurried to prepare it." 
Genesis18:8 Then he brought some butter and milk and the calf that had been prepared. He served them to the three men. While they ate, he stood near them under a tree." 
Genesis18:9 Where is your wife Sarah? they asked him. Over there, in the tent,"" he said." 
Genesis18:10 Then the Lord said, ""You can be sure that I will return to you about this time next year. Your wife Sarah will have a son."" Sarah was listening at the entrance to the tent behind him." 
Genesis18:11 Abraham and Sarah were already very old. Sarah was too old to have a baby. 
Genesis18:12 So she laughed to herself. She thought, ""I'm worn out, and my husband is old. Can I really know the joy of having a baby?""" 
Genesis18:13 Then the Lord said to Abraham, ""Why did Sarah laugh? Why did she say, 'Will I really have a baby, now that I am old?'" 
Genesis18:14 Is anything too hard for me? I will return to you at the appointed time next year. Sarah will have a son. 
Genesis18:15 Sarah was afraid. So she lied and said, ""I didn't laugh."" But the Lord said, ""Yes, you did.""" 
Genesis18:16 The men got up to leave. They looked down toward Sodom. Abraham walked along with them to see them on their way. 
Genesis18:17 Then the Lord said, ""Should I hide from Abraham what I am about to do?" 
Genesis18:18 He will certainly become a great and powerful nation. All nations on earth will be blessed because of him. 
Genesis18:19 I have chosen him. He must direct his children. He must see that the members of his family after him live the way I want them to. So he must direct them to do what is right and fair. Then I, the Lord, will do for Abraham what I have promised him.""" 
Genesis18:20 The Lord said, ""The cries against Sodom and Gomorrah are very great. Their sin is so bad" 
Genesis18:21 that I will go down and see for myself. I want to see if what they have done is as bad as the cries that have reached me. If it is not, then I will know.""" 
Genesis18:22 The men turned away. They went toward Sodom. But Abraham remained standing in front of the Lord. 
Genesis18:23 Then Abraham came up to him. He said, ""Will you sweep away godly people along with those who are evil?" 
Genesis18:24 What if there are 50 godly people in the city? Will you really sweep it away? Won't you spare the place because of the 50 godly people in it? 
Genesis18:25 You would never kill godly people along with those who are evil, would you? You wouldn't treat godly and evil people alike. You would never do anything like that! Won't the Judge of the whole earth do what is right?""" 
Genesis18:26 The Lord said, ""If I find 50 godly people in the city of Sodom, I will save it. I will spare the whole place because of them.""" 
Genesis18:27 Then Abraham spoke up again. He said, ""I have been very bold to speak to the Lord. After all, I'm only dust and ashes." 
Genesis18:28 What if the number of godly people is five less than 50? Will you destroy the whole city because of five people? If I find 45 there,"" he said, ""I will not destroy it.""" 
Genesis18:29 Once again Abraham spoke to him. He asked, ""What if only 40 are found there?"" He said, ""If there are 40, I will not do it.""" 
Genesis18:30 Then Abraham said, ""Lord, don't let your anger burn against me. Let me speak. What if only 30 can be found there?"" He answered, ""If there are 30, I will not do it.""" 
Genesis18:31 Abraham said, ""I have been very bold to speak to the Lord. What if only 20 are found there?"" He said, ""If there are 20, I will not destroy it.""" 
Genesis18:32 Then he said, ""Lord, don't let your anger burn against me. Let me speak just one more time. What if only ten are found there?"" He answered, ""If there are ten, I will not destroy it.""" 
Genesis18:33 When the Lord had finished speaking with Abraham, he left. And Abraham returned home." 
Genesis19:1 The two angels arrived at Sodom in the evening. Lot was sitting near the gate of the city. When Lot saw them, he got up to meet them. He bowed down with his face to the ground." 
Genesis19:2 My lords,"" he said, ""please come to my house. You can wash your feet and spend the night here. Then you can go on your way early in the morning."" ""No,"" they answered. ""We'll spend the night in the street.""" 
Genesis19:3 But Lot wouldn't give up. So they went with him and entered his house. He prepared a meal for them. He baked bread without using yeast. And they ate. 
Genesis19:4 Before Lot and his guests had gone to bed, all of the men came from every part of the city of Sodom. Young and old men alike surrounded the house." 
Genesis19:5 They called out to Lot. They said, ""Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us. We want to have sex with them.""" 
Genesis19:6 Lot went outside to meet them. He shut the door behind him. 
Genesis19:7 He said, ""No, my friends. Don't do such an evil thing." 
Genesis19:8 Look, I have two daughters. No man has ever made love to them. I'll bring them out to you now. Then do to them what you want to. But don't do anything to these men. I've brought them inside so they can be safe.""" 
Genesis19:9 Get out of our way! the men of Sodom replied. They said, ""This fellow came here as an outsider. Now he wants to act like a judge! We'll treat you worse than them."" They kept trying to force Lot to open the door. Then they moved forward to break it down." 
Genesis19:10 But the men inside reached out and pulled Lot back into the house. They shut the door. 
Genesis19:11 Then they made the men who were at the door of the house blind. They blinded young and old men alike. So the men couldn't find the door. 
Genesis19:12 The two men said to Lot, ""Do you have anyone else here? Do you have sons-in-law, sons or daughters? Does anyone else in the city belong to you? Get them out of here." 
Genesis19:13 We are going to destroy this place. There has been a great cry to the Lord against the people of this city. So he has sent us to destroy it. 
Genesis19:14 Then Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law. They had promised to get married to his daughters. He said, ""Hurry up! Get out of this place! The Lord is about to destroy the city!"" But his sons-in-law thought he was joking." 
Genesis19:15 The sun was coming up. So the angels tried to get Lot to leave. They said, ""Hurry up! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here. Get out! If you don't, you will be swept away when the city is punished.""" 
Genesis19:16 Lot didn't move right away. So the men grabbed him by the hand. They also took hold of the hands of his wife and two daughters. They led all of them safely out of the city. The Lord had mercy on them. 
Genesis19:17 As soon as the angels had brought them out, one of them spoke. He said, ""Run for your lives! Don't look back! Don't stop anywhere in the valley! Run to the mountains! If you don't, you will be swept away!""" 
Genesis19:18 But Lot said to them, ""No, my lords! Please!" 
Genesis19:19 You have done me a big favor. You have been very kind to me by sparing my life. But I can't run to the mountains. This horrible thing that's going to happen will catch up with me. And then I'll die. 
Genesis19:20 Look, here's a town near enough to run to. It's small. Let me run to it. It's very small, isn't it? Then my life will be spared.""" 
Genesis19:21 The Lord said to Lot, ""All right. I will also give you what you are asking for. I will not destroy the town you are talking about." 
Genesis19:22 But run there quickly. I can't do anything until you reach it. The town was named Zoar. Zoar means small. 
Genesis19:23 By the time Lot reached Zoar, the sun had risen over the land." 
Genesis19:24 Then the Lord sent down burning sulfur. It came down like rain on Sodom and Gomorrah. It came from the Lord out of the sky. 
Genesis19:25 He destroyed those cities and the whole valley. All of the people who were living in the cities were wiped out. So were the plants in the land. 
Genesis19:26 But Lot's wife looked back. When she did, she became a pillar made out of salt." 
Genesis19:27 Early the next morning Abraham got up. He returned to the place where he had stood in front of the Lord. 
Genesis19:28 He looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah and the whole valley. He saw thick smoke rising from the land. It looked like smoke from a furnace. 
Genesis19:29 So when God destroyed the cities of the valley, he showed concern for Abraham. He brought Lot out safely when he destroyed the cities where Lot had lived." 
Genesis19:30 Lot and his two daughters left Zoar. They went to settle down in the mountains. Lot was afraid to stay in Zoar. So he and his daughters lived in a cave. 
Genesis19:31 One day the older daughter spoke to the younger one. She said, ""Our father is old. There aren't any other men around here to make love to, as people all over the earth do." 
Genesis19:32 So let's get our father to drink wine. Then we can make love to him. We can use our father to continue our family line. 
Genesis19:33 That night they got their father to drink wine. Then the older daughter went in and made love to him. He didn't know when she lay down or when she got up. 
Genesis19:34 The next day the older daughter spoke to the younger one again. She said, ""Last night I made love to my father. Let's get him to drink wine again tonight. Then you go in and make love to him. In that way, we can use our father to continue our family line.""" 
Genesis19:35 So they got their father to drink wine that night also. Then the younger daughter went and made love to him. Again he didn't know when she lay down or when she got up. 
Genesis19:36 So both of Lot's daughters became pregnant by their father. 
Genesis19:37 The older daughter had a son. She named him Moab. He's the father of the Moabites of today. 
Genesis19:38 The younger daughter also had a son. She named him Ben-Ammi. He's the father of the Ammonites of today. 
Genesis20:1 Abraham moved away from there into the Negev Desert. He lived between Kadesh and Shur. For a while he stayed in Gerar. 
Genesis20:2 There Abraham said about his wife Sarah, ""She's my sister."" Then Abimelech sent for Sarah and took her. He was the king of Gerar." 
Genesis20:3 God came to Abimelech in a dream one night. He said to him, ""You are as good as dead because of the woman you have taken. She is already married.""" 
Genesis20:4 But Abimelech hadn't gone near her. So he said, ""Lord, will you destroy a nation that hasn't done anything wrong?" 
Genesis20:5 Didn't Abraham say to me, 'She's my sister'? And didn't she also say, 'He's my brother'? I had no idea I was doing anything wrong. I'm not guilty.""" 
Genesis20:6 Then God spoke to him in the dream. He said, ""Yes, I know you had no idea you were doing anything wrong. So I have kept you from sinning against me. That is why I did not let you touch her." 
Genesis20:7 Now return the man's wife to him. He is a prophet. He will pray for you, and you will live. But what if you do not return her? Then you can be sure that you and all of your people will die.""" 
Genesis20:8 Early the next morning Abimelech sent for all of his officials. He told them everything that had happened. They were really afraid. 
Genesis20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham in. He said, ""What have you done to us? Have I done something wrong to you? Why have you brought so much guilt on me and my kingdom? You have done things to me that shouldn't be done.""" 
Genesis20:10 Abimelech also asked Abraham, ""Why did you do this?""" 
Genesis20:11 Abraham replied, ""I thought, 'There isn't any respect for God in this place at all. They will kill me because of my wife.'" 
Genesis20:12 Besides, she really is my sister. She's the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother. And she became my wife." 
Genesis20:13 God had me wander away from my father's house. So I said to her, 'Here is how you can show your love to me. Everywhere we go, say about me, ""He's my brother."" ' """ 
Genesis20:14 Then Abimelech gave Abraham sheep and cattle and male and female slaves. He also returned his wife Sarah to him. 
Genesis20:15 Abimelech said, ""Here is my land. Live anywhere you want to.""" 
Genesis20:16 He said to Sarah, ""I'm giving your brother 25 pounds of silver. It will take care of the problem we caused you. And all those who are with you will know that you aren't guilty of doing anything wrong.""" 
Genesis20:17 Then Abraham prayed to God. And God healed Abimelech. He also healed his wife and his female slaves so they could have children again. 
Genesis20:18 The Lord had kept the women in Abimelech's house from having children. He had done it because of Abraham's wife Sarah. 
Genesis21:1 The Lord was gracious to Sarah, just as he had said he would be. He did for Sarah what he had promised to do." 
Genesis21:2 Sarah became pregnant. She had a son by Abraham when he was old. He was born at the exact time God had promised him. 
Genesis21:3 Abraham gave the name Isaac to the son Sarah had by him. 
Genesis21:4 When his son Isaac was eight days old, Abraham circumcised him. He did it exactly as God had commanded him." 
Genesis21:5 Abraham was 100 years old when his son Isaac was born to him. 
Genesis21:6 Sarah said, ""God has given laughter to me. Everyone who hears about this will laugh with me.""" 
Genesis21:7 She continued, ""Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? But I've had a son by him when he is old.""" 
Genesis21:8 Isaac grew. The time came for his mother to stop nursing him. On that day Abraham had a big dinner prepared. 
Genesis21:9 But Sarah saw Ishmael making fun of Isaac. Ishmael was the son Hagar had by Abraham. Hagar was Sarah's servant from Egypt. 
Genesis21:10 Sarah said to Abraham, ""Get rid of that slave woman. Get rid of her son. The slave woman's son will never have a share of the family's property with my son Isaac.""" 
Genesis21:11 What Sarah said upset Abraham very much. After all, Ishmael was his son." 
Genesis21:12 But God said to him, ""Do not be so upset about the boy and your servant Hagar. Listen to what Sarah tells you, because your family line will continue through Isaac." 
Genesis21:13 I will make the son of your servant into a nation also. I will do it because he is your child. 
Genesis21:14 Early the next morning Abraham got some food and a bottle of water. The bottle was made out of animal skin. He gave the food and water to Hagar. He placed them on her shoulders. Then he sent her away with the boy. She went on her way and wandered in the desert of Beersheba. 
Genesis21:15 When the water in the bottle was gone, she put the boy under a bush." 
Genesis21:16 Then she went off and sat down nearby. She was about as far away as a person can shoot an arrow. She thought, ""I can't stand to watch the boy die."" As she sat nearby, she began to sob." 
Genesis21:17 God heard the boy crying. Then the angel of God called out to Hagar from heaven. He said to her, ""What is the matter, Hagar? Do not be afraid. God has heard the boy crying as he lies there." 
Genesis21:18 Lift the boy up. Take him by the hand. I will make him into a great nation. 
Genesis21:19 Then God opened Hagar's eyes. She saw a well of water. So she went and filled the bottle with water. And she gave the boy a drink. 
Genesis21:20 God was with the boy as he grew up. He lived in the desert and learned to shoot with a bow. 
Genesis21:21 While he was living in the Desert of Paran, his mother got him a wife from Egypt." 
Genesis21:22 At that time Abimelech and Phicol spoke to Abraham. Phicol was the commander of Abimelech's army. They said, ""God is with you in everything you do." 
Genesis21:23 Now make a promise to me here while God is watching. Take an oath that you will treat me fairly. Promise that you will treat my children and their children the same way. I've been kind to you. Now you be kind to me. And be kind to the country where you are living as an outsider. 
Genesis21:24 Abraham said, ""I promise with an oath that I'll do it.""" 
Genesis21:25 Then Abraham objected to Abimelech about what Abimelech's servants had done. They had taken over a well of water. 
Genesis21:26 But Abimelech said, ""I don't know who has done this. You didn't tell me. Today is the first time I heard about it.""" 
Genesis21:27 So Abraham gave Abimelech sheep and cattle. The two men made a peace treaty. 
Genesis21:28 Then Abraham took out seven female lambs from his flock. 
Genesis21:29 Abimelech asked Abraham, ""What's the meaning of these seven female lambs? Why have you taken them out and put them by themselves?""" 
Genesis21:30 Abraham replied, ""Accept the seven lambs from me. They will be a witness that I dug this well.""" 
Genesis21:31 That place was named Beersheba. That's because there the two men made a promise with an oath. 
Genesis21:32 After the peace treaty had been made at Beersheba, Abimelech went back to the land of the Philistines. His army commander Phicol went with him." 
Genesis21:33 Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba. There he worshiped the Lord, the God who lives forever." 
Genesis21:34 Abraham stayed in the land of the Philistines for a long time. 
Genesis22:1 Some time later God put Abraham to the test. He said to him, ""Abraham!"" ""Here I am,"" Abraham replied." 
Genesis22:2 Then God said, ""Take your son, your only son. He is the one you love. Take Isaac. Go to Moriah. Give him to me there as a burnt offering. Sacrifice him on one of the mountains I will tell you about.""" 
Genesis22:3 Early the next morning Abraham got up. He put a saddle on his donkey. He took two of his servants and his son Isaac with him. He cut enough wood for the burnt offering. Then he started out for the place God had told him about. 
Genesis22:4 On the third day Abraham looked up. He saw the place a long way off. 
Genesis22:5 He said to his servants, ""Stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will go over there and worship. Then we'll come back to you.""" 
Genesis22:6 Abraham put the wood for the burnt offering on his son Isaac. He himself carried the fire and the knife. The two of them walked on together. 
Genesis22:7 Then Isaac spoke up. He said to his father Abraham, ""Father?"" ""Yes, my son?"" Abraham replied. ""The fire and wood are here,"" Isaac said. ""But where is the lamb for the burnt offering?""" 
Genesis22:8 Abraham answered, ""God himself will provide the lamb for the burnt offering, my son."" The two of them walked on together." 
Genesis22:9 They reached the place God had told Abraham about. There Abraham built an altar. He arranged the wood on it. He tied up his son Isaac. He placed him on the altar, on top of the wood." 
Genesis22:10 Then he reached out his hand. He took the knife to kill his son. 
Genesis22:11 But the angel of the Lord called out to him from heaven. He said, ""Abraham! Abraham!"" ""Here I am,"" Abraham replied." 
Genesis22:12 Do not lay a hand on the boy,"" he said. ""Do not do anything to him. Now I know that you have respect for God. You have not held back from me your son, your only son.""" 
Genesis22:13 Abraham looked up. There in a bush he saw a ram. It was caught by its horns. He went over and took the ram. He sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son. 
Genesis22:14 So Abraham named that place The Lord Will Provide. To this day people say, ""It will be provided on the mountain of the Lord.""" 
Genesis22:15 The angel of the Lord called out to Abraham from heaven a second time. 
Genesis22:16 He said, ""I am taking an oath in my own name. I will bless you because of what you have done,"" announces the Lord. ""You have not held back your son, your only son." 
Genesis22:17 So I will certainly bless you. I will make your children after you as many as the stars in the sky. I will make them as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. Your children will take over the cities of their enemies. 
Genesis22:18 All nations on earth will be blessed because of your children. All of that will happen because you have obeyed me. 
Genesis22:19 Then Abraham returned to his servants. They started out together for Beersheba. And Abraham stayed in Beersheba. 
Genesis22:20 Some time later Abraham was told, ""Milcah has become a mother. She has had sons by your brother Nahor." 
Genesis22:21 Uz was born first. Then came his brother Buz. Next came Kemuel, the father of Aram." 
Genesis22:22 The other sons are Kesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph and Bethuel.""" 
Genesis22:23 Bethuel became the father of Rebekah. Milcah had the eight sons by Abraham's brother Nahor. 
Genesis22:24 Nahor had a concubine named Reumah. She also had sons. They were Tebah, Gaham, Tahash and Maacah." 
Genesis23:1 Sarah lived to be 127 years old. 
Genesis23:2 She died at Kiriath Arba. Kiriath Arba is also called Hebron. It's in the land of Canaan. Sarah's death filled Abraham with sorrow. He went to the place where her body was lying. There he sobbed over her. 
Genesis23:3 Then Abraham got up from beside his dead wife. He spoke to the Hittites. He said," 
Genesis23:4 I'm an outsider. I'm a stranger among you. Sell me some property here as a place for a family tomb. Then I can bury my wife's body. 
Genesis23:5 The Hittites replied to Abraham," 
Genesis23:6 Sir, listen to us. You are a mighty prince among us. Bury your dead wife in the best of our tombs. None of us will refuse to sell you his tomb for burying her.""" 
Genesis23:7 Then Abraham bowed down in front of the Hittites, the people of the land." 
Genesis23:8 He said to them, ""If you are willing to let me bury my dead wife, then listen to me. Speak to Zohar's son Ephron for me." 
Genesis23:9 Ask him to sell me the cave of Machpelah. It belongs to him and is at the end of his field. Ask him to sell it to me for the full price. I want it as a place to bury my dead wife among you. 
Genesis23:10 Ephron the Hittite was sitting there among his people. He replied to Abraham. All of the Hittites who had come to the gate of his city heard him. 
Genesis23:11 No, sir,"" Ephron said. ""Listen to me. I will sell you the field. I'll also sell you the cave that's in the field. I will sell it to you in front of my people. Bury your wife.""" 
Genesis23:12 Again Abraham bowed down in front of the people of the land. 
Genesis23:13 He spoke to Ephron so they could hear him. He said, ""Please listen to me. I'll pay the price of the field. Accept it from me. Then I can bury my dead wife there.""" 
Genesis23:14 Ephron answered Abraham," 
Genesis23:15 Sir, listen to me. The land is worth ten pounds of silver. But what is that between you and me? Bury your wife.""" 
Genesis23:16 Abraham agreed to Ephron's offer. He weighed out for him the price he had named. The Hittites there had heard it. The price was ten pounds of silver. Abraham measured it by the weights that were used by those who bought and sold. 
Genesis23:17 So Ephron sold his field in Machpelah near Mamre to Abraham. He bought the field and the cave that was in it. He also bought all of the trees that were inside the borders of the field. Everything was sold 
Genesis23:18 to Abraham as his property. He bought it in front of all of the Hittites who had come to the gate of the city. 
Genesis23:19 Then Abraham buried the body of his wife Sarah. He buried her in the cave in the field of Machpelah near Mamre in the land of Canaan. Mamre is at Hebron. 
Genesis23:20 So the field and the cave that was in it were sold to Abraham by the Hittites. The property became a place for his family tomb. 
Genesis24:1 By that time Abraham was very old. The Lord had blessed him in every way. 
Genesis24:2 The best servant in his house was in charge of everything he had. Abraham said to him, ""Put your hand under my thigh." 
Genesis24:3 The Lord is the God of heaven and the God of earth. I want you to make a promise with an oath in his name. I'm living among the people of Canaan. But I want you to promise me that you won't get a wife for my son from their daughters. 
Genesis24:4 Instead, promise me that you will go to my country and to my own relatives. Get a wife for my son Isaac from there.""" 
Genesis24:5 The servant asked him, ""What if the woman doesn't want to come back with me to this land? Then should I take your son back to the country you came from?""" 
Genesis24:6 Make sure you don't take my son back there,"" Abraham said." 
Genesis24:7 The Lord, the God of heaven, took me away from my father's family. He brought me out of my own land. And he made me a promise with an oath. He said, 'I will give this land to your family after you.' The Lord will send his angel ahead of you. So you will be able to get a wife for my son from there." 
Genesis24:8 The woman may not want to come back with you. If she doesn't, you will be free from your oath. But don't take my son back there.""" 
Genesis24:9 So the servant put his hand under Abraham's thigh. He promised with an oath to do what his master wanted. 
Genesis24:10 The servant took ten of his master's camels and left. He took with him all kinds of good things from his master. He started out for Aram Naharaim. He made his way to the town of Nahor. 
Genesis24:11 He stopped near the well outside the town. There he made the camels get down on their knees. It was almost evening. It was the time when women go out to get water. 
Genesis24:12 Then he prayed, ""Lord, you are the God of my master Abraham. Give me success today. Be kind to my master Abraham." 
Genesis24:13 I'm standing beside this spring. The daughters of the people who live in the town are coming out here to get water. 
Genesis24:14 I will speak to a young woman. I'll say, 'Please lower your jar so I can have a drink.' Suppose she says, 'Have a drink of water. And I'll get some for your camels too.' Then let her be the one you have chosen for your servant Isaac. That's how I'll know you have been kind to my master.""" 
Genesis24:15 Before he had finished praying, Rebekah came out. She had a jar on her shoulder. She was the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah. Milcah was the wife of Abraham's brother Nahor." 
Genesis24:16 The young woman was very beautiful. She was a virgin. No man had made love to her. She went down to the spring. She filled her jar and came up again. 
Genesis24:17 The servant hurried to meet her. He said, ""Please give me a little water from your jar.""" 
Genesis24:18 Have a drink, sir,"" she said. She quickly lowered the jar to her hands. And she gave him a drink." 
Genesis24:19 After she had given him a drink, she said, ""I'll get water for your camels too. I'll keep doing it until they finish drinking.""" 
Genesis24:20 So she quickly emptied her jar into the stone tub. Then she ran back to the well to get more water. She got enough for all of his camels. 
Genesis24:21 The man didn't say a word. He watched her closely. He wanted to learn whether the Lord had given him success on the journey he had made. 
Genesis24:22 The camels finished drinking. Then the man took out a gold nose ring. It weighed a fifth of an ounce. He also took out two gold bracelets. They weighed four ounces. 
Genesis24:23 Then he asked, ""Whose daughter are you? And please tell me something else. Is there room in your father's house for us? Can we spend the night there?""" 
Genesis24:24 She answered, ""I'm the daughter of Bethuel. He's the son Milcah had by Nahor.""" 
Genesis24:25 She continued, ""We have plenty of straw and feed for your camels. We also have room for you to spend the night.""" 
Genesis24:26 Then the man bowed down and worshiped the Lord. 
Genesis24:27 He said, ""I praise the Lord, the God of my master Abraham. He hasn't stopped being kind and faithful to my master. The Lord has led me on this journey. He has brought me to the house of my master's relatives.""" 
Genesis24:28 The young woman ran home. She told her mother's family what had happened. 
Genesis24:29 Rebekah had a brother named Laban. He hurried out to the spring to meet the man. 
Genesis24:30 Laban had seen the nose ring. He had seen the bracelets on his sister's arms. And he had heard Rebekah tell what the man had said to her. So he went out to the man. He found him standing by the camels near the spring. 
Genesis24:31 The Lord has given you his blessing,"" he said. ""So come. Why are you standing out here? I've prepared my house for you. I also have a place for the camels.""" 
Genesis24:32 So the man went to the house. The camels were unloaded. Straw and feed were brought for the camels. And water was brought for him and his men to wash their feet. 
Genesis24:33 Then food was placed in front of him. But he said, ""I won't eat until I've told you what I have to say."" ""Then tell us,"" Laban said." 
Genesis24:34 So he said, ""I am Abraham's servant." 
Genesis24:35 The Lord has blessed my master greatly. He has become wealthy. The Lord has given him sheep and cattle. He has given him silver and gold. He has also given him male and female servants, and camels and donkeys." 
Genesis24:36 My master's wife Sarah had a son by him when she was old. He has given that son everything he owns. 
Genesis24:37 My master made me take an oath. He said, 'I'm living in the land of the people of Canaan. But promise me that you won't get a wife for my son from their daughters." 
Genesis24:38 Instead, go to my father's family and to my own relatives. Get a wife for my son there.'" 
Genesis24:39 Then I asked my master, 'What if the woman won't come back with me?'" 
Genesis24:40 He replied, 'I have walked with the Lord. He will send his angel with you. He will give you success on your journey. So you will be able to get a wife for my son. You will get her from my own relatives and from my father's family." 
Genesis24:41  'When you go to my relatives, suppose they refuse to give her to you. Then you will be free from your oath.'" 
Genesis24:42 Today I came to the spring. I said, 'Lord, you are the God of my master Abraham. Please give me success on this journey I've made." 
Genesis24:43  'I'm standing beside this spring. A young woman will come out to get water. I will speak to her. I'll say, ""Please let me drink a little water from your jar.""" 
Genesis24:44 Suppose she says, ""Have a drink of water. And I'll get some for your camels too."" Then let her be the one the Lord has chosen for my master's son.'" 
Genesis24:45 Before I finished praying in my heart, Rebekah came out. She had a jar on her shoulder. She went down to the spring and got water. I said to her, 'Please give me a drink.'" 
Genesis24:46 She quickly lowered her jar from her shoulder. She said, 'Have a drink. And I'll get water for your camels too.' So I drank. She also got water for the camels." 
Genesis24:47 I asked her, 'Whose daughter are you?' ""She said, 'The daughter of Bethuel. He's the son Milcah had by Nahor.' ""Then I put the ring in her nose. I put the bracelets on her arms." 
Genesis24:48 And I bowed down and worshiped the Lord. I praised the Lord, the God of my master Abraham. He had led me on the right road. He had led me to get for my master's son the granddaughter of my master's brother." 
Genesis24:49 Now will you be kind and faithful to my master? If you will, tell me. And if you won't, tell me. Then I'll know which way to turn.""" 
Genesis24:50 Laban and Bethuel answered, ""The Lord has done all of this. We can't say anything to you one way or the other." 
Genesis24:51 Here is Rebekah. Take her and go. Let her become the wife of your master's son, just as the Lord has said.""" 
Genesis24:52 Abraham's servant heard what they said. So he bowed down to the Lord with his face to the ground. 
Genesis24:53 He brought out gold and silver jewelry. He brought out articles of clothing. He gave all of it to Rebekah. He also gave expensive gifts to her brother and her mother. 
Genesis24:54 Then Abraham's servant and the men who were with him ate and drank. They spent the night there. They got up the next morning. Abraham's servant said, ""Send me back to my master.""" 
Genesis24:55 But her brother and her mother replied, ""Let the young woman stay with us ten days or so. Then you can go.""" 
Genesis24:56 But he said to them, ""Don't make me wait. The Lord has given me success on my journey. Send me on my way so I can go to my master.""" 
Genesis24:57 Then they said, ""Let's get Rebekah. We'll ask her about it.""" 
Genesis24:58 So they sent for her. They asked her, ""Will you go with this man?"" ""Yes,"" she said." 
Genesis24:59 So they sent their sister Rebekah on her way with Abraham's servant and his men. They also sent Rebekah's attendant with her. 
Genesis24:60 And they gave Rebekah their blessing. They said to her, ""Dear sister, may your family grow by thousands and thousands. May your children after you take over the cities of their enemies.""" 
Genesis24:61 Then Rebekah and her female servants got ready. They got on their camels to go with the man. So the servant took Rebekah and left. 
Genesis24:62 By that time Isaac had come from Beer Lahai Roi. He was living in the Negev Desert. 
Genesis24:63 One evening he went out to the field. He wanted to spend some time thinking. When he looked up, he saw camels approaching." 
Genesis24:64 Rebekah also looked up and saw Isaac. She got down from her camel. 
Genesis24:65 She asked the servant, ""Who is that man in the field coming to meet us?"" ""He's my master,"" the servant answered. So she took her veil and covered her face." 
Genesis24:66 Then the servant told Isaac everything he had done. 
Genesis24:67 Isaac brought Rebekah into the tent that had belonged to his mother Sarah. And he married Rebekah. She became his wife, and he loved her. So Isaac was comforted after his mother died." 
Genesis25:1 Abraham married another woman. Her name was Keturah. 
Genesis25:2 She had Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah by Abraham." 
Genesis25:3 Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan. The children of Dedan were the Asshurites, the Letushites and the Leummites." 
Genesis25:4 The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida and Eldaah. All of them came from Keturah." 
Genesis25:5 Abraham left everything he owned to Isaac. 
Genesis25:6 But while he was still living, he gave gifts to the sons of his concubines. Then he sent them away from his son Isaac. He sent them to the land of the east." 
Genesis25:7 Abraham lived a total of 175 years. 
Genesis25:8 He took his last breath and died when he was very old. He had lived a very long time. Then he joined the members of his family who had already died. 
Genesis25:9 Abraham's sons Isaac and Ishmael buried his body. They put it in the cave of Machpelah near Mamre. It was in the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite." 
Genesis25:10 Abraham had bought it from the Hittites. He was buried there with his wife Sarah. 
Genesis25:11 After Abraham died, God blessed his son Isaac. At that time Isaac lived near Beer Lahai Roi." 
Genesis25:12 Here is the story of Abraham's son Ishmael. Hagar had Ishmael by Abraham. She was Sarah's servant from Egypt. 
Genesis25:13 Here are the names of the sons of Ishmael. They are listed in the order they were born. Nebaioth was Ishmael's oldest son. Then came Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
Genesis25:14 Mishma, Dumah, Massa," 
Genesis25:15 Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah." 
Genesis25:16 All of them were Ishmael's sons. They were rulers of 12 tribes. They all lived in their own settlements and camps. 
Genesis25:17 Ishmael lived a total of 137 years. Then he took his last breath and died. He joined the members of his family who had already died. 
Genesis25:18 His children settled in the area between Havilah and Shur. It was near the eastern border of Egypt, as you go toward Asshur. Ishmael's children weren't friendly toward any of the tribes that were related to them." 
Genesis25:19 Here is the story of Abraham's son Isaac. Abraham was the father of Isaac. 
Genesis25:20 Isaac was 40 years old when he married Rebekah. She was the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Paddan Aram. She was also the sister of Laban the Aramean. 
Genesis25:21 Rebekah couldn't have children. So Isaac prayed to the Lord for her. And the Lord answered his prayer. His wife Rebekah became pregnant. 
Genesis25:22 The babies struggled with each other inside her. She said, ""Why is this happening to me?"" So she went to ask the Lord what she should do." 
Genesis25:23 The Lord said to her, ""Two nations are in your body. Two tribes that are now inside you will be separated. One nation will be stronger than the other. The older son will serve the younger one.""" 
Genesis25:24 The time came for Rebekah to have her babies. There were twin boys in her body. 
Genesis25:25 The first one to come out was red. His whole body was covered with hair. So they named him Esau. 
Genesis25:26 Then his brother came out. His hand was holding onto Esau's heel. So he was named Jacob. Isaac was 60 years old when Rebekah had them. 
Genesis25:27 The boys grew up. Esau became a skillful hunter. He was a man who liked the open country. But Jacob was a quiet man. He stayed at home among the tents. 
Genesis25:28 Isaac liked the meat of wild animals. So Esau was his favorite son. But Rebekah's favorite was Jacob. 
Genesis25:29 One day Jacob was cooking some stew. Esau came in from the open country. He was very hungry. 
Genesis25:30 He said to Jacob, ""Quick! Let me have some of that red stew! I'm very hungry!"" That's why he was also named Edom." 
Genesis25:31 Jacob replied, ""First sell me the rights that belong to you as the oldest son in the family.""" 
Genesis25:32 Look, I'm dying of hunger,"" Esau said. ""What good are those rights to me?""" 
Genesis25:33 But Jacob said, ""First promise me with an oath that you are selling me your rights."" So Esau promised to do it. He sold Jacob all of the rights that belonged to him as the oldest son." 
Genesis25:34 Jacob gave Esau some bread and some lentil stew. Esau ate and drank. Then he got up and left. So Esau didn't care anything at all about the rights that belonged to him as the oldest son. 
Genesis26:1 There was very little food in the land. The same thing had been true earlier, in Abraham's time. Isaac went to Abimelech in Gerar. Abimelech was the king of the Philistines." 
Genesis26:2 The Lord appeared to Isaac. He said, ""Do not go down to Egypt. Live in the land where I tell you to live." 
Genesis26:3 Stay here for a while. I will be with you and give you my blessing. I will give all of these lands to you and your children after you. And I will keep the promise I made with an oath to your father Abraham. 
Genesis26:4 I will make your children after you as many as the stars in the sky. And I will give them all these lands. All nations on earth will be blessed because of your children. 
Genesis26:5 I will do all of those things because Abraham obeyed me. He did what I required. He kept my commands, my rules and my laws.""" 
Genesis26:6 So Isaac stayed in Gerar. 
Genesis26:7 The men of that place asked him about his wife. He said, ""She's my sister."" He was afraid to say, ""She's my wife."" He thought, ""The men of this place might kill me because of Rebekah. She's a beautiful woman.""" 
Genesis26:8 Isaac had been there a long time. One day Abimelech, the king of the Philistines, looked down from a window. He saw Isaac hugging and kissing his wife Rebekah." 
Genesis26:9 So Abimelech sent for Isaac. He said, ""She's really your wife, isn't she? Why did you say, 'She's my sister'?"" Isaac answered him, ""I thought I might lose my life because of her.""" 
Genesis26:10 Then Abimelech said, ""What have you done to us? What if one of the men had sex with your wife? Then you would have made us guilty.""" 
Genesis26:11 So Abimelech gave orders to all of the people. He said, ""You can be sure that anyone who harms this man or his wife will be put to death.""" 
Genesis26:12 Isaac planted crops in that land. That same year he gathered 100 times more than he planted. That was because the Lord blessed him. 
Genesis26:13 Isaac became rich. His wealth continued to grow until he became very rich. 
Genesis26:14 He had many flocks and herds and servants. Isaac had so much that the Philistines became jealous of him. 
Genesis26:15 So they stopped up all of the wells the servants of his father Abraham had dug. They filled them with dirt. 
Genesis26:16 Then Abimelech said to Isaac, ""Move away from us. You have become too powerful for us.""" 
Genesis26:17 So Isaac moved away from there. He camped in the Valley of Gerar and settled there. 
Genesis26:18 Isaac opened up the wells again. They had been dug in the time of his father Abraham. The Philistines had stopped them up after Abraham died. Isaac gave the wells the same names his father had given them. 
Genesis26:19 Isaac's servants dug for wells in the valley. There they discovered a well of fresh water. 
Genesis26:20 But the people of Gerar who took care of their herds argued with the people who took care of Isaac's herds. The water is ours! the people of Gerar said. So Isaac named the well Esek. That's because they argued with him. 
Genesis26:21 Then Isaac's servants dug another well. They argued about that one too. So he named it Sitnah. 
Genesis26:22 He moved on from there and dug another well. But no one argued about that one. So he named it Rehoboth. He said, ""Now the Lord has given us room. Now we will do well in the land.""" 
Genesis26:23 From there Isaac went up to Beersheba. 
Genesis26:24 That night the Lord appeared to him. He said, ""I am the God of your father Abraham. Do not be afraid. I am with you. I will bless you. I will increase the number of your children because of my servant Abraham.""" 
Genesis26:25 Isaac built an altar there and worshiped the Lord. There he set up his tent. And there his servants dug a well. 
Genesis26:26 During that time, Abimelech had come to him from Gerar. Ahuzzath had come with him. So had Phicol, Abimelech's army commander. Ahuzzath was Abimelech's personal adviser." 
Genesis26:27 Isaac asked them, ""Why have you come to me? You were angry with me and sent me away.""" 
Genesis26:28 They answered, ""We saw clearly that the Lord was with you. So we said, 'We should make an agreement by taking an oath.' The agreement should be between us and you. We want to make a peace treaty with you." 
Genesis26:29 Promise that you won't harm us. We didn't harm you. We always treated you well. We sent you away in peace. Now the Lord has blessed you. 
Genesis26:30 Then Isaac had a big dinner prepared for them. They ate and drank. 
Genesis26:31 Early the next morning the men made an agreement with an oath. Then Isaac sent the men of Gerar on their way. And they left in peace. 
Genesis26:32 That day Isaac's servants came to him. They told him about the well they had dug. They said, ""We've found water!""" 
Genesis26:33 So he named it Shibah. To this day the name of the town has been Beersheba. 
Genesis26:34 When Esau was 40 years old, he got married to Judith. She was the daughter of Beeri the Hittite. He also married Basemath. She was the daughter of Elon the Hittite." 
Genesis26:35 Isaac and Rebekah became very upset because Esau had married Hittite women. 
Genesis27:1 Isaac had become old. His eyes were so weak he couldn't see anymore. One day he called for his older son Esau. He said to him, ""My son."" ""Here I am,"" he answered." 
Genesis27:2 Isaac said, ""I'm an old man now. And I don't know when I'll die." 
Genesis27:3 Now then, get your weapons. Get your bow and arrows. Go out to the open country. Hunt some wild animals for me." 
Genesis27:4 Prepare for me the kind of tasty food I like. Bring it to me to eat. Then I'll give you my blessing before I die. 
Genesis27:5 Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to his son Esau. Esau left for the open country. He went to hunt for a wild animal and bring it back. 
Genesis27:6 Then Rebekah said to her son Jacob, ""Look, I heard your father speaking to your brother Esau." 
Genesis27:7 He said, 'Bring me a wild animal. Prepare some tasty food for me to eat. Then I'll give you my blessing before I die. The Lord will be my witness.' """ 
Genesis27:8 Rebekah continued, ""My son, listen carefully. Do what I tell you." 
Genesis27:9 Go out to the flock. Bring me two of the finest young goats. I will prepare tasty food for your father. I'll make it just the way he likes it. 
Genesis27:10 I want you to take it to your father to eat. Then he'll give you his blessing before he dies. 
Genesis27:11 Jacob said to his mother Rebekah, ""My brother Esau's body is covered with hair. But my skin is smooth." 
Genesis27:12 What if my father touches me? He would know I was trying to trick him. That would bring a curse down on me instead of a blessing. 
Genesis27:13 His mother said to him, ""My son, let the curse fall on me. Just do what I say. Go and get the goats for me.""" 
Genesis27:14 So he went and got the goats. He brought them to his mother. And she prepared some tasty food. She made it just the way his father liked it. 
Genesis27:15 The clothes of her older son Esau were in her house. She took the best of them and put them on her younger son Jacob. 
Genesis27:16 She covered his hands with the skins of the goats. She also covered the smooth part of his neck with them. 
Genesis27:17 Then she handed to her son Jacob the tasty food and the bread she had made. 
Genesis27:18 He went to his father and said, ""My father."" ""Yes, my son,"" Isaac answered. ""Who is it?""" 
Genesis27:19 Jacob said to his father, ""I'm your oldest son Esau. I've done as you told me. Please sit up. Eat some of my wild meat. Then give me your blessing.""" 
Genesis27:20 Isaac asked his son, ""How did you find it so quickly, my son?"" ""The Lord your God gave me success,"" he replied." 
Genesis27:21 Then Isaac said to Jacob, ""Come near so I can touch you, my son. I want to know whether you really are my son Esau.""" 
Genesis27:22 Jacob went close to his father. Isaac touched him and said, ""The voice is the voice of Jacob. But the hands are the hands of Esau.""" 
Genesis27:23 Isaac didn't recognize him. His hands were covered with hair like those of his brother Esau. So Isaac blessed him. 
Genesis27:24 Are you really my son Esau? he asked. I am,"" Jacob replied." 
Genesis27:25 Isaac said, ""My son, bring me some of your wild meat to eat. Then I'll give you my blessing."" Jacob brought it to him. So Isaac ate. Jacob also brought some wine. And Isaac drank." 
Genesis27:26 Then Jacob's father Isaac said to him, ""Come here, my son. Kiss me.""" 
Genesis27:27 So Jacob went to him and kissed him. When Isaac smelled the clothes, he gave Jacob his blessing. He said, ""It really is the smell of my son. It's like the smell of a field that the Lord has blessed." 
Genesis27:28 May God give you dew from heaven. May he give you the richness of the earth. May he give you plenty of grain and fresh wine. 
Genesis27:29 May nations serve you. May they bow down to you. Rule over your brothers. May the sons of your mother bow down to you. May those who call down curses on you be cursed. And may those who bless you be blessed. 
Genesis27:30 When Isaac finished blessing him, Jacob left his father. Just then his brother Esau came in from hunting." 
Genesis27:31 He too prepared some tasty food. He brought it to his father. Then Esau said to him, ""My father, sit up. Eat some of my wild meat. Then give me your blessing.""" 
Genesis27:32 His father Isaac asked him, ""Who are you?"" ""I'm your son,"" he answered. ""I'm your oldest son. I'm Esau.""" 
Genesis27:33 Isaac was shaking all over. He said, ""Then who was it that hunted a wild animal and brought it to me? I ate it just before you came. I gave him my blessing. And he will certainly be blessed!""" 
Genesis27:34 Esau heard his father's words. Then he began crying loudly and bitterly. He said to his father, ""Bless me! Bless me too, my father!""" 
Genesis27:35 But Isaac said, ""Your brother came and tricked me. He took your blessing.""" 
Genesis27:36 Esau said, ""Isn't Jacob just the right name for him? He has cheated me two times. First, he took my rights as the oldest son. And now he's taken my blessing!"" Then Esau asked, ""Haven't you saved any blessing for me?""" 
Genesis27:37 Isaac answered Esau, ""I've made him ruler over you. I've made all of his relatives serve him. And I've provided him with grain and fresh wine. So what can I possibly do for you, my son?""" 
Genesis27:38 Esau said to his father, ""Do you have only one blessing, my father? Bless me too, my father!"" Then Esau sobbed loudly." 
Genesis27:39 His father Isaac answered him, ""You will live far away from the richness of the earth. You will live far away from the dew of heaven above." 
Genesis27:40 You will live by the sword. And you will serve your brother. But you will grow restless. Then you will throw off the heavy load he put on your shoulders. 
Genesis27:41 Esau was angry with Jacob. He was angry because of the blessing his father had given to Jacob. He said to himself, ""My father will soon die. The days of sorrow over him are near. Then I'll kill my brother Jacob.""" 
Genesis27:42 Rebekah was told what her older son Esau had said. So she sent for her younger son Jacob. She said to him, ""Your brother Esau is comforting himself with the thought of killing you." 
Genesis27:43 Now then, my son, do what I say. Go at once to my brother Laban in Haran." 
Genesis27:44 Stay with him until your brother's anger calms down. 
Genesis27:45 Stay until your brother isn't angry with you anymore. When he forgets what you did to him, I'll let you know. Then you can come back from there. Why should I lose both of you in one day?""" 
Genesis27:46 Then Rebekah spoke to Isaac. She said, ""I'm sick of living because of Esau's Hittite wives. Suppose Jacob also marries a Hittite woman. If he does, my life won't be worth living.""" 
Genesis28:1 So Isaac called for Jacob and blessed him. He commanded him, ""Don't get married to a woman from Canaan." 
Genesis28:2 Go at once to Paddan Aram. Go to the house of your mother's father Bethuel. Find a wife for yourself there. Take her from among the daughters of your mother's brother Laban. 
Genesis28:3 May the Mighty God bless you. May he give you children. May he increase your numbers until you become a community of nations. 
Genesis28:4 May he give you and your children after you the blessing he gave to Abraham. Then you can take over the land where you now live as an outsider. It's the land God gave to Abraham. 
Genesis28:5 Isaac sent Jacob on his way. Jacob went to Paddan Aram. He went to Laban, the son of Bethuel the Aramean. Laban was the brother of Rebekah. And Rebekah was the mother of Jacob and Esau." 
Genesis28:6 Esau found out that Isaac had blessed Jacob and had sent him to Paddan Aram. Isaac wanted him to get a wife from there. Esau heard that when Isaac blessed Jacob, he commanded him, ""Don't get married to a woman from Canaan.""" 
Genesis28:7 Esau also learned that Jacob had obeyed his father and mother and had gone to Paddan Aram. 
Genesis28:8 Then Esau realized how much his father Isaac disliked the women of Canaan. 
Genesis28:9 So he went to Ishmael and married Mahalath. She was the sister of Nebaioth and the daughter of Abraham's son Ishmael. Esau added her to the wives he already had. 
Genesis28:10 Jacob left Beersheba and started out for Haran. 
Genesis28:11 He reached a certain place and stopped for the night. The sun had already set. He took one of the stones there and placed it under his head. Then he lay down to sleep. 
Genesis28:12 In a dream he saw a stairway standing on the earth. Its top reached to heaven. The angels of God were going up and coming down on it. 
Genesis28:13 The Lord stood above the stairway. He said, ""I am the Lord. I am the God of your grandfather Abraham and the God of Isaac. I will give you and your children after you the land on which you are lying." 
Genesis28:14 They will be like the dust of the earth that can't be counted. They will spread out to the west and to the east. They will spread out to the north and to the south. All nations on earth will be blessed because of you and your children after you. 
Genesis28:15 I am with you. I will watch over you everywhere you go. And I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. 
Genesis28:16 Jacob woke up from his sleep. Then he thought, ""The Lord is certainly in this place. And I didn't even know it.""" 
Genesis28:17 Jacob was afraid. He said, ""How holy this place is! This must be the house of God. This is the gate of heaven.""" 
Genesis28:18 Early the next morning Jacob took the stone he had placed under his head. He set it up as a pillar. And he poured oil on top of it. 
Genesis28:19 He named that place Bethel. But the city used to be called Luz. 
Genesis28:20 Then Jacob made a promise. He said, ""May God be with me. May he watch over me on this journey I'm taking. May he give me food to eat and clothes to wear." 
Genesis28:21 May he do as he has promised so that I can return safely to my father's home. Then you, Lord, will be my God." 
Genesis28:22 This stone I've set up as a pillar will be God's house. And I'll give you a tenth of everything you give me. 
Genesis29:1 Then Jacob continued on his journey. He came to the land where the eastern tribes lived. 
Genesis29:2 There he saw a well in the field. Three flocks of sheep were lying near it. The flocks were given water from the well. The stone over the opening of the well was large. 
Genesis29:3 All of the flocks would gather there. The shepherds would roll the stone away from the well's opening. They would give water to the sheep. Then they would put the stone back in its place over the opening of the well. 
Genesis29:4 Jacob asked the shepherds, ""My friends, where are you from?"" ""We're from Haran,"" they replied." 
Genesis29:5 He said to them, ""Do you know Nahor's grandson Laban?"" ""Yes, we know him,"" they answered." 
Genesis29:6 Then Jacob asked them, ""How is he?"" ""He's fine,"" they said. ""Here comes his daughter Rachel with the sheep now.""" 
Genesis29:7 Look,"" he said, ""the sun is still high in the sky. It's not time for the flocks to be brought together. Give water to the sheep and take them back to the grasslands.""" 
Genesis29:8 We can't,"" they replied. ""We have to wait until all of the flocks are brought together. The stone has to be rolled away from the opening of the well. Then we'll give water to the sheep.""" 
Genesis29:9 He was still talking with them when Rachel came with her father's sheep. It was her job to take care of the flock. 
Genesis29:10 Rachel was the daughter of Laban. He was the brother of Jacob's mother. When Jacob saw Rachel with Laban's sheep, he went over to the well. He rolled the stone away from the opening. He gave water to his uncle's sheep." 
Genesis29:11 Jacob kissed Rachel. Then he began to sob loudly. 
Genesis29:12 He had told Rachel he was a relative of her father. He had also said he was Rebekah's son. Rachel ran and told her father what Jacob had said. 
Genesis29:13 As soon as Laban heard the news about his sister's son Jacob, he hurried to meet him. Laban hugged Jacob and kissed him. Then he brought him to his home. There Jacob told him everything." 
Genesis29:14 Then Laban said to him, ""You are my own flesh and blood."" Jacob stayed with Laban for a whole month." 
Genesis29:15 Then Laban said to him, ""You are one of my relatives. But is that any reason for you to work for me for nothing? Tell me what your pay should be.""" 
Genesis29:16 Laban had two daughters. The name of the older one was Leah. And the name of the younger one was Rachel. 
Genesis29:17 Leah had weak eyes. But Rachel was beautiful. She had a nice figure. 
Genesis29:18 Jacob was in love with Rachel. He said to Laban, ""I'll work for you for seven years to get your younger daughter Rachel.""" 
Genesis29:19 Laban said, ""It's better for me to give her to you than to some other man. Stay here with me.""" 
Genesis29:20 So Jacob worked for seven years to get Rachel. But they seemed like only a few days to him because he loved her so much. 
Genesis29:21 Then Jacob said to Laban, ""Give me my wife. I've completed my time. I want to make love to her.""" 
Genesis29:22 So Laban brought all of the people of the place together and had a big dinner prepared. 
Genesis29:23 But when evening came, he gave his daughter Leah to Jacob. And Jacob made love to her." 
Genesis29:24 Laban gave his female servant Zilpah to his daughter as her servant. 
Genesis29:25 When Jacob woke up the next morning, there was Leah next to him! So he said to Laban, ""What have you done to me? I worked for you to get Rachel, didn't I? Why did you trick me?""" 
Genesis29:26 Laban replied, ""It isn't our practice here to give the younger daughter to be married before the older one." 
Genesis29:27 Complete this daughter's wedding week. Then we'll give you the younger one also. But you will have to work for another seven years. 
Genesis29:28 So Jacob did it. He completed the week with Leah. Then Laban gave him his daughter Rachel to be his wife. 
Genesis29:29 Laban gave his female servant Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her servant. 
Genesis29:30 Jacob made love to Rachel also. He loved Rachel more than he loved Leah. And he worked for Laban for another seven years. 
Genesis29:31 The Lord saw that Jacob didn't love Leah as much as he loved Rachel. So he let Leah have children. But Rachel wasn't able to have children. 
Genesis29:32 Leah became pregnant. She had a son. She named him Reuben. She said, ""The Lord has seen me suffer. Certainly my husband will love me now.""" 
Genesis29:33 She became pregnant again. She had a son. Then she said, ""The Lord heard that Jacob doesn't love me very much. That's why the Lord gave me this one too."" So she named him Simeon." 
Genesis29:34 She became pregnant again. She had a son. Then she said, ""Now at last my husband will want me. I have had three sons by him."" So the boy was named Levi." 
Genesis29:35 She became pregnant again. She had a son. Then she said, ""This time I'll praise the Lord."" So she named him Judah. Then she stopped having children." 
Genesis30:1 Rachel saw that she couldn't have any children by Jacob. So she became jealous of her sister. She said to Jacob, ""Give me children, or I'll die!""" 
Genesis30:2 Jacob became angry with her. He said, ""Do you think I'm God? He's the one who has kept you from having children.""" 
Genesis30:3 Then she said, ""Here's my servant Bilhah. Make love to her so that she can have children for me. Then I too can have a family through her.""" 
Genesis30:4 So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife. Jacob made love to her. 
Genesis30:5 And Bilhah became pregnant. She had a son by him. 
Genesis30:6 Then Rachel said, ""God has stood up for my rights. He has listened to my prayer and given me a son."" So she named him Dan." 
Genesis30:7 Rachel's servant Bilhah became pregnant again. She had a second son by Jacob. 
Genesis30:8 Then Rachel said, ""I've had a great struggle with my sister. Now I've won."" So she named him Naphtali." 
Genesis30:9 Leah saw that she had stopped having children. So she gave her servant Zilpah to Jacob as a wife. 
Genesis30:10 Leah's servant Zilpah had a son by Jacob. 
Genesis30:11 Then Leah said, ""What good fortune!"" So she named him Gad." 
Genesis30:12 Leah's servant Zilpah had a second son by Jacob. 
Genesis30:13 Then Leah said, ""I'm so happy! The women will call me happy."" So she named him Asher." 
Genesis30:14 While the wheat harvest was being gathered, Reuben went out into the fields. He found some mandrake plants. He brought them to his mother Leah. Rachel said to Leah, ""Please give me some of your son's mandrakes.""" 
Genesis30:15 But Leah said to her, ""Isn't it enough that you took my husband away? Are you going to take my son's mandrakes too?"" Rachel said, ""All right. Jacob can make love to you tonight if you give me your son's mandrakes.""" 
Genesis30:16 Jacob came in from the fields that evening. Leah went out to meet him. You have to sleep with me tonight,"" she said. ""I've bought you with my son's mandrakes."" So he made love to her that night." 
Genesis30:17 God listened to Leah. She became pregnant and had a fifth son by Jacob. 
Genesis30:18 Then Leah said, ""God has rewarded me because I gave my female servant to my husband."" So she named the boy Issachar." 
Genesis30:19 Leah became pregnant again. She had a sixth son by Jacob. 
Genesis30:20 Then Leah said, ""God has given me a priceless gift. This time my husband will treat me with honor. I've had six sons by him."" So she named the boy Zebulun." 
Genesis30:21 Some time later she had a daughter. She named her Dinah. 
Genesis30:22 Then God listened to Rachel. He showed concern for her. He made it possible for her to have children. 
Genesis30:23 She became pregnant. She had a son. She said, ""God has taken my shame away.""" 
Genesis30:24 She continued, ""May the Lord give me another son."" So she named him Joseph." 
Genesis30:25 After Rachel had Joseph, Jacob spoke to Laban. He said, ""Send me on my way. I want to go back to my own home and country." 
Genesis30:26 Give me my wives and children. I worked for you to get them. So I'll be on my way. You know how much work I've done for you. 
Genesis30:27 But Laban said to him, ""If you are pleased with me, stay here. I've discovered that the Lord has blessed me because of you.""" 
Genesis30:28 He continued, ""Name your pay. I'll give it to you.""" 
Genesis30:29 Jacob said to him, ""You know how hard I've worked for you. You know that your livestock has done better under my care." 
Genesis30:30 You had only a little before I came. But that little has become a lot. The Lord has blessed you everywhere I've been. But when can I do something for my own family? 
Genesis30:31 What should I give you? Laban asked. Don't give me anything,"" Jacob replied. ""Just do one thing for me. Then I'll go on taking care of your flocks and watching over them." 
Genesis30:32 Let me go through all of your flocks today. Let me remove every sheep that has speckles or spots on it. Let me remove every dark-colored lamb. Let me remove every goat that has spots or speckles on it. They will be my pay. 
Genesis30:33 My honesty will give witness about me in days to come. It will give witness every time you check on what you have paid me. Suppose I have a goat that doesn't have speckles or spots. Or suppose I have a lamb that isn't dark-colored. Then it will be considered stolen. 
Genesis30:34 I agree,"" said Laban. ""Let's do what you have said.""" 
Genesis30:35 That same day Laban removed all of the male goats that had stripes or spots. He removed all of the female goats that had speckles or spots. They were the ones that had white on them. He also removed all of the dark-colored lambs. He had his sons take care of them. 
Genesis30:36 Then he put a journey of three days between himself and Jacob. But Jacob continued to take care of the rest of Laban's flocks. 
Genesis30:37 Jacob took branches that were freshly cut from poplar, almond and plane trees. He made white stripes on them by peeling off the bark. He uncovered the white wood inside the branches." 
Genesis30:38 Then he placed the peeled branches in all of the stone tubs where the animals drank water. He placed them so they would be right in front of the flocks when they came to drink. The flocks were ready to mate when they came to drink. 
Genesis30:39 So they mated in front of the branches. And they had little ones that were striped or speckled or spotted. 
Genesis30:40 Jacob put the little ones of the flock to one side by themselves. But he made the older ones face the striped and dark-colored animals that belonged to Laban. In that way, he made separate flocks for himself. He didn't put them with Laban's animals." 
Genesis30:41 Every time the stronger females were ready to mate, Jacob would place the branches in the stone tubs. He would place them in front of the animals so they would mate near the branches." 
Genesis30:42 But if the animals were weak, he wouldn't place the branches there. So the weak animals went to Laban. And the strong ones went to Jacob." 
Genesis30:43 In this way, Jacob became very rich. He became the owner of large flocks. He also had many male and female servants. And he had many camels and donkeys." 
Genesis31:1 Jacob heard what Laban's sons were saying. Jacob has taken everything our father owned,"" they said. ""He has gained all of this wealth from what belonged to our father.""" 
Genesis31:2 Jacob noticed that Laban's feelings toward him had changed. 
Genesis31:3 Then the Lord spoke to Jacob. He said, ""Go back to your father's land and to your relatives. I will be with you.""" 
Genesis31:4 So Jacob sent word to Rachel and Leah. He told them to come out to the fields where his flocks were. 
Genesis31:5 He said to them, ""I see that your father's feelings toward me have changed. But the God of my father has been with me." 
Genesis31:6 You know that I've worked for your father with all of my strength. 
Genesis31:7 But your father has cheated me. He has changed my pay ten times. In spite of everything that's happened, God hasn't let him harm me." 
Genesis31:8 Sometimes Laban would say, 'The speckled ones will be your pay.' Then all the flocks had little ones with speckles. At other times he would say, 'The striped ones will be your pay.' Then all the flocks had little ones with stripes." 
Genesis31:9 So God has taken away your father's livestock and given it to me. 
Genesis31:10 Once during the mating season I had a dream. In my dream I looked up and saw male goats mating with the flock. The goats had stripes, speckles or spots." 
Genesis31:11 The angel of God said to me in the dream, 'Jacob.' I answered, 'Here I am.'" 
Genesis31:12 He said, 'Look up. See the male goats mating with the flock. All of them have stripes, speckles or spots. That is because I have seen everything that Laban has been doing to you." 
Genesis31:13  'I am the God of Bethel. That is where you poured oil on a pillar. There you made a promise to me. Now leave this land. Go back to your own land.' 
Genesis31:14 Rachel and Leah replied, ""Do we still have any share in our father's property?" 
Genesis31:15 Doesn't our father think of us as strangers? First he sold us. Now he has used up what he was paid for us. 
Genesis31:16 All of the wealth God took away from our father really belongs to us and our children. So do what God has told you to do. 
Genesis31:17 Then Jacob put his children and wives on camels. 
Genesis31:18 He drove all of his livestock ahead of him. He also took with him everything he had gotten in Paddan Aram. He left to go to his father Isaac in the land of Canaan. 
Genesis31:19 Laban had gone to clip the wool from his sheep. While he was gone, Rachel stole the statues of family gods that belonged to her father." 
Genesis31:20 And that's not all. Jacob tricked Laban the Aramean. He didn't tell him he was running away. 
Genesis31:21 So Jacob ran off with everything he had. He crossed the Euphrates River. And he headed for the hill country of Gilead. 
Genesis31:22 On the third day Laban was told that Jacob had run away. 
Genesis31:23 He took his relatives with him and went after Jacob. Seven days later he caught up with him in the hill country of Gilead. 
Genesis31:24 Then God came to Laban the Aramean in a dream at night. He said to him, ""Be careful. Do not say anything to Jacob, whether it is good or bad.""" 
Genesis31:25 Jacob had set up his tent in the hill country of Gilead. That's where Laban caught up with him. Laban and his relatives camped there too. 
Genesis31:26 Laban said to Jacob, ""What have you done? You have tricked me. You have taken my daughters away like prisoners of war." 
Genesis31:27 Why did you run away in secret and trick me? Why didn't you tell me? Then I could have sent you away happily. We could have sung to the music of tambourines and harps. 
Genesis31:28 You didn't even let me kiss my grandchildren and my daughters good-by. You have done a foolish thing. 
Genesis31:29 I have the power to harm you. But last night the God of your father spoke to me. He said, 'Be careful. Do not say anything to Jacob, whether it is good or bad.'" 
Genesis31:30 Now you have run away. You longed to go back to your father's home. But why did you have to steal my gods? 
Genesis31:31 Jacob answered Laban, ""I was afraid. I thought you would take your daughters away from me by force." 
Genesis31:32 But if you find anyone who has your gods, he will not remain alive. While our relatives are watching, look for yourself. See if there's anything of yours here with me. If you find anything belonging to you, take it."" But Jacob didn't know that Rachel had stolen the gods." 
Genesis31:33 So Laban went into Jacob's tent and Leah's tent. He went into the tent of their two female servants. But he didn't find anything. After he came out of Leah's tent, he entered Rachel's tent." 
Genesis31:34 Rachel was the one who had taken his family gods. She had put them inside her camel's saddle. She was sitting on them. Laban searched the whole tent. But he didn't find anything. 
Genesis31:35 Rachel said to her father, ""I'm sorry, sir. I can't get up for you right now. But don't be angry with me. I'm having my monthly period."" So he searched everywhere but couldn't find his family gods." 
Genesis31:36 Jacob was very angry with Laban. What have I done wrong? he asked. What sin have I committed to make you hunt me down like this? 
Genesis31:37 You have searched through all of my things. What have you found that belongs to your family? Put it here in front of your relatives and mine. Let them decide between the two of us. 
Genesis31:38 I've been with you for 20 years now. The little ones of your sheep and goats were not dead when they were born. I haven't eaten rams from your flocks. 
Genesis31:39 I didn't bring you animals that were torn apart by wild beasts. I made up for the loss myself. Also, you made me pay for anything that was stolen by day or night." 
Genesis31:40 And what was my life like? The heat burned me in the daytime. And it was so cold at night that I froze. I couldn't sleep. 
Genesis31:41 That's what it was like for the 20 years I was living with you. I worked for 14 years to get your two daughters. I worked for six years to get my share of your flocks. You changed my pay ten times. 
Genesis31:42 But the God of my father was with me. He is the God of Abraham and the God Isaac worshiped. If he hadn't been with me, you would certainly have sent me away without anything to show for all of my work. But God has seen my hard times. He has seen all of the work my hands have done. So last night he warned you.""" 
Genesis31:43 Laban answered Jacob, ""The women are my daughters. The children are my children. The flocks are my flocks. Everything you see is mine. But what can I do today about these daughters of mine? What can I do about the children they've had?" 
Genesis31:44 Come now. Let's make a covenant, you and I. Let it be a witness between us.""" 
Genesis31:45 So Jacob took a stone. He set it up as a pillar. 
Genesis31:46 He said to his relatives, ""Get some stones."" So they took stones and put them in a pile. And they ate there by it." 
Genesis31:47 Laban named the pile of stones Jegar Sahadutha. Jacob named it Galeed. 
Genesis31:48 Laban said, ""This pile of stones is a witness between you and me today."" That's why it was named Galeed." 
Genesis31:49 It was also called Mizpah. That's because Laban said, ""May the Lord keep watch between you and me when we are away from each other." 
Genesis31:50 Don't treat my daughters badly. Don't get married to any women besides my daughters. There isn't anyone here to see what we're doing. But remember that God is a witness between you and me. 
Genesis31:51 Laban also said to Jacob, ""Here is this pile of stones. And here is this pillar. I've set them up between you and me." 
Genesis31:52 This pile is a witness. And this pillar is a witness. They give witness that I won't go past this pile to harm you. And they give witness that you won't go past this pile and pillar to harm me. 
Genesis31:53 The God of Abraham and Nahor is also the God of their father. May their God decide which of us is right. So Jacob took an oath in the name of the God his father Isaac worshiped. 
Genesis31:54 He offered a sacrifice there in the hill country. And he invited his relatives to a meal. After they had eaten, they spent the night there." 
Genesis31:55 Early the next morning Laban kissed his grandchildren and his daughters. He gave them his blessing. Then he left and returned home. 
Genesis32:1 Jacob also went on his way. The angels of God met him. 
Genesis32:2 Jacob saw them. He said, ""This is the army of God!"" So he named that place Mahanaim." 
Genesis32:3 Jacob sent messengers ahead of him to his brother Esau. Esau lived in the land of Seir. It was also called the country of Edom. 
Genesis32:4 Jacob told the messengers what to do. He said, ""Here's what you must tell my master Esau. 'Your servant Jacob says, ""I've been staying with Laban. I've remained there until now." 
Genesis32:5 I have cattle and donkeys and sheep and goats. I also have male and female servants. Now I'm sending this message to you. I hope I can please you. ' 
Genesis32:6 The messengers came back to Jacob. They said, ""We went to your brother Esau. He's coming now to meet you. He has 400 men with him.""" 
Genesis32:7 Jacob was very worried and afraid. So he separated the people who were with him into two groups. He also separated the flocks and herds and camels. 
Genesis32:8 He thought, ""Esau may come and attack one group. If he does, the group that's left can escape.""" 
Genesis32:9 Then Jacob prayed, ""You are the God of my grandfather Abraham. You are the God of my father Isaac. ""Lord, you are the one who said to me, 'Go back to your country and your relatives. Then I will give you success.'" 
Genesis32:10 You have been very kind and faithful to me. But I'm not worthy of any of this. When I crossed this Jordan River, all I had was my walking stick. But now I've become two groups." 
Genesis32:11 Please save me from the hand of my brother Esau. I'm afraid he'll come and attack me and the mothers with their children. 
Genesis32:12 But you have said, 'I will certainly give you success. I will make your children as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. People will not be able to count them.' """ 
Genesis32:13 Jacob spent the night there. He chose a gift for his brother Esau from what he had with him. 
Genesis32:14 He chose 200 female goats and 20 male goats. He chose 200 female sheep and 20 male sheep. 
Genesis32:15 He chose 30 female camels with their little ones. He chose 40 cows and ten bulls. And he chose 20 female donkeys and ten male donkeys. 
Genesis32:16 He put each herd by itself. Then he put his servants in charge of them. He said to his servants, ""Go on ahead of me. Keep some space between the herds.""" 
Genesis32:17 Jacob spoke to his servant who was leading the way. He said, ""My brother Esau will meet you. He'll ask, 'Who is your master? Where are you going? And who owns all of these animals in front of you?'" 
Genesis32:18 Then say to Esau, 'They belong to your servant Jacob. They are a gift to you from him. And he is coming behind us.' """ 
Genesis32:19 He also spoke to the second and third servants. He told them and all of the others who followed the herds what to do. He said, ""Say the same thing to Esau when you meet him." 
Genesis32:20 Make sure you say, 'Your servant Jacob is coming behind us.' "" Jacob was thinking, ""I'll make peace with him with these gifts I'm sending on ahead. When I see him later, maybe he'll welcome me.""" 
Genesis32:21 So Jacob's gifts went on ahead of him. But he himself spent the night in the camp. 
Genesis32:22 That night Jacob got up. He took his two wives, his two female servants and his 11 sons and sent them across the Jabbok River." 
Genesis32:23 After they had crossed the stream, he sent over everything he owned." 
Genesis32:24 So Jacob was left alone. A man struggled with him until morning. 
Genesis32:25 The man saw that he couldn't win. So he touched the inside of Jacob's hip. As Jacob struggled with the man, Jacob's hip was twisted." 
Genesis32:26 Then the man said, ""Let me go. It is morning."" But Jacob replied, ""I won't let you go unless you bless me.""" 
Genesis32:27 The man asked him, ""What is your name?"" ""Jacob,"" he answered." 
Genesis32:28 Then the man said, ""Your name will not be Jacob anymore. Instead, it will be Israel. You have struggled with God and with men. And you have won.""" 
Genesis32:29 Jacob said, ""Please tell me your name."" But he replied, ""Why do you want to know my name?"" Then he blessed Jacob there." 
Genesis32:30 So Jacob named the place Peniel. He said, ""I saw God face to face. But I'm still alive!""" 
Genesis32:31 The sun rose above Jacob as he passed by Peniel. He was limping because of his hip. 
Genesis32:32 That's why the people of Israel don't eat the meat attached to the inside of the hip. They don't eat it to this very day. It's because the inside of Jacob's hip was touched. 
Genesis33:1 Jacob looked up. And there was Esau, coming with his 400 men! So Jacob separated the children. He put them with Leah, Rachel and the two female servants." 
Genesis33:2 He put the servants and their children in front. He put Leah and her children next. And he put Rachel and Joseph last. 
Genesis33:3 He himself went on ahead. As he came near his brother, he bowed down to the ground seven times." 
Genesis33:4 But Esau ran to meet Jacob. He hugged him and threw his arms around his neck. He kissed him, and they cried." 
Genesis33:5 Then Esau looked up and saw the women and children. Who are these people with you? he asked. Jacob answered, ""They are the children God has so kindly given to me.""" 
Genesis33:6 Then the female servants and their children came near and bowed down. 
Genesis33:7 Next, Leah and her children came and bowed down. Last of all came Joseph and Rachel. They bowed down too." 
Genesis33:8 Esau asked, ""Why did you send all of those herds I saw?"" ""I hoped I could do something to please you,"" Jacob replied." 
Genesis33:9 But Esau said, ""I already have plenty, my brother. Keep what you have for yourself.""" 
Genesis33:10 No, please!"" said Jacob. ""If I've pleased you, accept this gift from me. Seeing your face is like seeing the face of God. You have welcomed me so kindly." 
Genesis33:11 Please accept the present that was brought to you. God has been gracious to me. I have everything I need. Jacob wouldn't give in. So Esau accepted it. 
Genesis33:12 Then Esau said, ""Let's be on our way. I'll go with you.""" 
Genesis33:13 But Jacob said to him, ""You know that the children are young. You also know that I have to take care of the cows and female sheep that are nursing their little ones. If the animals are driven hard for just one day, all of them will die." 
Genesis33:14 So you go on ahead of me. I'll move along only as fast as the herds and the children can go. I'll go slowly until I come to you in Seir. 
Genesis33:15 Esau said, ""Then let me leave some of my men with you."" ""Why do that?"" Jacob asked. ""I just hope I've pleased you.""" 
Genesis33:16 So that day Esau started on his way back to Seir. 
Genesis33:17 But Jacob went to Succoth. There he built a place for himself. He also made shelters for his livestock. That's why the place is named Succoth. 
Genesis33:18 After Jacob came from Paddan Aram, he arrived safely at the city of Shechem in Canaan. He camped where he could see the city." 
Genesis33:19 For 100 pieces of silver he bought a piece of land. He got it from the sons of Hamor. Hamor was the father of Shechem. Jacob set up his tent on that piece of land. 
Genesis33:20 He also set up an altar there. He named it El Elohe Israel. 
Genesis34:1 Dinah was the daughter Leah had by Jacob. Dinah went out to visit the women of the land. 
Genesis34:2 Hamor the Hivite was the ruler of that area. When his son Shechem saw Dinah, he took her and raped her." 
Genesis34:3 Then his heart longed for Jacob's daughter Dinah. He fell in love with her and spoke tenderly to her. 
Genesis34:4 Shechem said to his father Hamor, ""Get me that woman. I want her to be my wife.""" 
Genesis34:5 Jacob heard that his daughter Dinah had been made unclean. His sons were in the fields with his livestock. So he kept quiet about it until they came home. 
Genesis34:6 Then Shechem's father Hamor went out to talk with Jacob. 
Genesis34:7 Jacob's sons had come in from the fields. They came as soon as they heard what had happened. They were filled with sadness and anger. Shechem had done a very terrible thing. He had forced Jacob's daughter to have sex with him. He had done something that should never be done in Israel. 
Genesis34:8 But Hamor said to them, ""My son Shechem wants your daughter. Please give her to him to be his wife." 
Genesis34:9 Let your people and ours get married to each other. Give us your daughters as our wives. You can have our daughters as your wives. 
Genesis34:10 You can settle among us. Here is the land. Live in it. Trade in it. Buy property in it. 
Genesis34:11 Then Shechem spoke to Dinah's father and brothers. He said, ""I want to please you. I'll give you anything you ask." 
Genesis34:12 Make the price for the bride as high as you want to. I'll pay anything you ask me. Just give me the woman. I want to get married to her. 
Genesis34:13 Their sister Dinah had been made unclean. So Jacob's sons lied to Shechem and his father Hamor. 
Genesis34:14 They said to them, ""We can't do it. We can't give our sister to a man who isn't circumcised. That would bring shame on us." 
Genesis34:15 We'll agree, but only on one condition. You will have to become like us. You will have to circumcise all of your males." 
Genesis34:16 Then we'll give you our daughters as your wives. And we'll take your daughters as our wives. We'll settle among you and become one people with you. 
Genesis34:17 But if you won't agree to it, then we'll take our sister and go.""" 
Genesis34:18 Their offer seemed good to Hamor and his son Shechem. 
Genesis34:19 The young man was the most honored of all of the men in his father's family. He didn't lose any time in doing what they said, because he was delighted with Jacob's daughter." 
Genesis34:20 Hamor and his son Shechem went to the city gate. They spoke to the other men in town. 
Genesis34:21 These men are friendly toward us,"" they said. ""Let them live in our land. Let them trade in it. The land has plenty of room for them. We can get married to their daughters. And they can marry ours." 
Genesis34:22 But they will agree to live with us as one people only on one condition. All of our males must be circumcised, just as they are." 
Genesis34:23 Won't their livestock and their property belong to us? Won't all of their animals become ours? So let's say yes to them. Then they'll settle among us. 
Genesis34:24 All of the men who went out through the city gate agreed with Hamor and his son Shechem. So every male in the city was circumcised. 
Genesis34:25 Three days later, all of them were still in pain. Then Simeon and Levi took their swords. They were Jacob's sons and Dinah's brothers. They attacked the city when the people didn't expect it. They killed every male." 
Genesis34:26 They also killed Hamor and his son Shechem with their swords. Then they took Dinah from Shechem's house and left. 
Genesis34:27 Jacob's other sons found the dead bodies. They robbed the city where their sister had been made unclean. 
Genesis34:28 They took the flocks and herds and donkeys. They took everything that was in the city and out in the fields. 
Genesis34:29 They carried everything away. And they took all of the women and children. They took away everything that was in the houses. 
Genesis34:30 Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, ""You have brought trouble on me. Now I'm like a very bad smell to the Canaanites and Perizzites who live in this land. There aren't many of us. They may join together against me and attack me. Then I and my family will be destroyed.""" 
Genesis34:31 But they replied, ""Should he have treated our sister like a prostitute?""" 
Genesis35:1 Then God said to Jacob, ""Go up to Bethel and settle there. Build an altar there to honor me. That's where I appeared to you when you were running away from your brother Esau.""" 
Genesis35:2 So Jacob spoke to his family and to everyone who was with him. He said, ""Get rid of the strange gods you have with you. Make yourselves pure, and change your clothes." 
Genesis35:3 Come, let's go up to Bethel. There I'll build an altar to honor God. He answered me when I was in trouble. He's been with me everywhere I've gone.""" 
Genesis35:4 So they gave Jacob all of the strange gods they had. They also gave him their earrings. Jacob buried them under the oak tree at Shechem. 
Genesis35:5 Then Jacob and everyone who was with him started out. The terror of God fell on the towns all around them. So no one chased them. 
Genesis35:6 Jacob and all of the people who were with him came to Luz. Luz is also called Bethel. It's in the land of Canaan. 
Genesis35:7 Jacob built an altar at Luz. He named the place El Bethel. There God made himself known to Jacob when he was running away from his brother. 
Genesis35:8 Rebekah's attendant Deborah died. They buried her body under the oak tree below Bethel. So it was called Allon Bacuth. 
Genesis35:9 After Jacob returned from Paddan Aram, God appeared to him again. And God blessed him." 
Genesis35:10 God said to him, ""Your name is Jacob. But you will not be called Jacob anymore. Your name will be Israel."" So he named him Israel." 
Genesis35:11 God said to him, ""I am the Mighty God. Have children and increase your numbers. A nation and a community of nations will come from you. Kings will come from your body." 
Genesis35:12 I am giving you the land I gave to Abraham and Isaac. I will also give it to your children after you. 
Genesis35:13 Then God left him at the place where he had talked with him. 
Genesis35:14 Jacob set up a stone pillar at the place where God had talked with him. He poured out a drink offering on it. He also poured oil on it. 
Genesis35:15 Jacob named the place Bethel. That's where God had talked with him. 
Genesis35:16 They moved on from Bethel. Ephrath wasn't very far away when Rachel began to have a baby. She was having a very hard time of it. 
Genesis35:17 The woman who helped her saw that she was having problems. So she said to her, ""Don't be afraid. You have another son.""" 
Genesis35:18 But Rachel was dying. As she took her last breath, she named her son Ben-Oni. But his father named him Benjamin." 
Genesis35:19 So Rachel died. Her body was buried beside the road to Ephrath. Ephrath was also called Bethlehem. 
Genesis35:20 Jacob set up a pillar over her tomb. The pillar marks the place of Rachel's tomb to this very day. 
Genesis35:21 Israel moved on again. He set up his tent beyond Migdal Eder. 
Genesis35:22 While Israel was living in that area, Reuben went in and made love to Bilhah. She was the concubine of Reuben's father. And Israel heard about it. Here are the 12 sons Jacob had." 
Genesis35:23 Leah was the mother of Reuben, Jacob's oldest son. Her other sons were Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar and Zebulun." 
Genesis35:24 The sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis35:25 The sons of Rachel's female servant Bilhah were Dan and Naphtali. 
Genesis35:26 The sons of Leah's female servant Zilpah were Gad and Asher. Those were Jacob's sons. They were born in Paddan Aram. 
Genesis35:27 Jacob came home to his father Isaac in Mamre. Mamre is near Kiriath Arba, where Abraham and Isaac had stayed. The place is also called Hebron." 
Genesis35:28 Isaac lived 180 years. 
Genesis35:29 Then he took his last breath and died. He was very old when he joined the members of his family who had already died. His sons Esau and Jacob buried his body. 
Genesis36:1 Here is the story of Esau. Esau was also called Edom. 
Genesis36:2 Esau got his wives from among the women of Canaan. He married Adah, the daughter of Elon the Hittite. He also married Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah and the granddaughter of Zibeon the Hivite." 
Genesis36:3 And he married Basemath, the daughter of Ishmael and the sister of Nebaioth." 
Genesis36:4 Adah had Eliphaz by Esau. Basemath had Reuel. 
Genesis36:5 Oholibamah had Jeush, Jalam and Korah. All of them were Esau's sons. They were born in Canaan." 
Genesis36:6 Esau moved to a land far away from his brother Jacob. He took with him his wives, his sons and daughters, and all of the people who lived with him. He also took his livestock and all of his other animals. He took everything he had gotten in Canaan." 
Genesis36:7 Jacob and Esau owned so much that they couldn't remain together. There wasn't enough land for both of them. They had too much livestock. 
Genesis36:8 So Esau settled in the hill country of Seir. Esau was also called Edom. 
Genesis36:9 Here is the story of Esau. He's the father of the people of Edom. They live in the hill country of Seir. 
Genesis36:10 Here are the names of Esau's sons. They are Eliphaz, the son of Esau's wife Adah, and Reuel, the son of Esau's wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:11 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam and Kenaz." 
Genesis36:12 Esau's son Eliphaz also had a concubine named Timna. She had Amalek by Eliphaz. They were grandsons of Esau's wife Adah. 
Genesis36:13 The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. They were grandsons of Esau's wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:14 Esau's wife Oholibamah was the daughter of Anah and the granddaughter of Zibeon. She had Jeush, Jalam and Korah by Esau." 
Genesis36:15 Here are the chiefs who were among Esau's sons. Eliphaz was Esau's oldest son. The sons of Eliphaz were Chiefs Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz," 
Genesis36:16 Korah, Gatam and Amalek. They were the chiefs in Edom who were sons of Eliphaz. They were Adah's grandsons." 
Genesis36:17 The sons of Esau's son Reuel were Chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. They were the chiefs in Edom who were sons of Reuel. They were grandsons of Esau's wife Basemath." 
Genesis36:18 The sons of Esau's wife Oholibamah were Chiefs Jeush, Jalam and Korah. They were the chiefs who were sons of Esau's wife Oholibamah. She was Anah's daughter." 
Genesis36:19 That was the family line of Esau. And those were the chiefs. Esau was also called Edom. 
Genesis36:20 Seir the Horite had sons living in the same area. They were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah," 
Genesis36:21 Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. The sons of Seir in Edom were Horite chiefs." 
Genesis36:22 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam. Timna was Lotan's sister. 
Genesis36:23 The sons of Shobal were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam." 
Genesis36:24 The sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah. He was the Anah who discovered the hot springs of water in the desert. He found them while he was taking care of the donkeys that belonged to his father Zibeon. 
Genesis36:25 The children of Anah were Dishon and Oholibamah. Oholibamah was the daughter of Anah. 
Genesis36:26 The sons of Dishon were Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Keran." 
Genesis36:27 The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan." 
Genesis36:28 The sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran. 
Genesis36:29 The Horite chiefs were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah," 
Genesis36:30 Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. They were the Horite chiefs in the land of Seir. They are listed tribe by tribe." 
Genesis36:31 Before Israel had a king, there were kings who ruled in Edom." 
Genesis36:32 Bela became the king of Edom. Bela was the son of Beor. Bela's city was called Dinhabah. 
Genesis36:33 When Bela died, Jobab became the next king. Jobab was the son of Zerah from Bozrah." 
Genesis36:33 When Bela died, Jobab became the next king. Jobab was the son of Zerah from Bozrah." 
Genesis36:34 When Jobab died, Husham became the next king. Husham was from the land of the Temanites." 
Genesis36:34 When Jobab died, Husham became the next king. Husham was from the land of the Temanites." 
Genesis36:35 When Husham died, Hadad became the next king. Hadad was the son of Bedad. Hadad had won the battle over Midian in the country of Moab. Hadad's city was called Avith." 
Genesis36:36 When Hadad died, Samlah became the next king. Samlah was from Masrekah." 
Genesis36:37 When Samlah died, Shaul became the next king. Shaul was from Rehoboth on the river." 
Genesis36:38 When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan became the next king. Baal-Hanan was the son of Acbor." 
Genesis36:39 When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad became the next king. Hadad's city was called Pau. His wife's name was Mehetabel. She was the daughter of Matred. Matred was the daughter of Me-Zahab." 
Genesis36:40 Here are the chiefs who were in the family line of Esau. They are listed by name as chiefs in charge of their tribes and territories. They are Timna, Alvah, Jetheth," 
Genesis36:41 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon," 
Genesis36:42 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
Genesis36:43 Magdiel and Iram. They were the chiefs of Edom. They ruled over their settlements in the land where they lived. That's the end of the story of Esau. He was the father of the people of Edom. 
Genesis37:1 Jacob lived in the land of Canaan. It's the land where his father had stayed. 
Genesis37:2 Here is the story of Jacob. Joseph was a young man. He was 17 years old. He was taking care of the flocks with some of his brothers. They were the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. Joseph brought their father a bad report about them." 
Genesis37:3 Israel loved Joseph more than any of his other sons. Joseph had been born to him when he was old. Israel made him a beautiful robe. 
Genesis37:4 Joseph's brothers saw that their father loved him more than any of them. So they hated Joseph. They couldn't even speak one kind word to him. 
Genesis37:5 Joseph had a dream. When he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more." 
Genesis37:6 He said to them, ""Listen to the dream I had." 
Genesis37:7 We were tying up bundles of grain out in the field. Suddenly my bundle rose and stood up straight. Your bundles gathered around my bundle and bowed down to it. 
Genesis37:8 His brothers said to him, ""Do you plan to be king over us? Will you really rule over us?"" So they hated him even more because of his dream. They didn't like what he had said." 
Genesis37:9 Then Joseph had another dream. He told it to his brothers. Listen,"" he said. ""I had another dream. This time the sun and moon and 11 stars were bowing down to me.""" 
Genesis37:10 He told his father as well as his brothers. Then his father objected. He said, ""What about this dream you had? Will your mother and I and your brothers really do that? Will we really come and bow down to the ground in front of you?""" 
Genesis37:11 His brothers were jealous of him. But his father kept the matter in mind. 
Genesis37:12 Joseph's brothers had gone to take care of their father's flocks near Shechem. 
Genesis37:13 Israel said to Joseph, ""As you know, your brothers are taking care of the flocks near Shechem. Come. I'm going to send you to them."" ""All right,"" Joseph replied." 
Genesis37:14 So Israel said to him, ""Go to your brothers. See how they are doing. Also see how the flocks are doing. Then come back and tell me."" So he sent him away from the Hebron Valley. Joseph arrived at Shechem." 
Genesis37:15 A man found him wandering around in the fields. He asked Joseph, ""What are you looking for?""" 
Genesis37:16 He replied, ""I'm looking for my brothers. Can you tell me where they are taking care of their flocks?""" 
Genesis37:17 They've moved on from here,"" the man answered. ""I heard them say, 'Let's go to Dothan.' "" So Joseph went to look for his brothers. He found them near Dothan." 
Genesis37:18 But they saw him a long way off. Before he reached them, they made plans to kill him." 
Genesis37:19 Here comes that dreamer! they said to one another. 
Genesis37:20 Come. Let's kill him. Let's throw him into one of these empty wells. Let's say that a wild animal ate him up. Then we'll see whether his dreams will come true. 
Genesis37:21 Reuben heard them. He tried to save Joseph from them. Let's not take his life,"" he said." 
Genesis37:22 Let's not spill any blood. Throw him into this empty well here in the desert. But don't harm him yourselves. Reuben said that to save Joseph from them. He was hoping he could take him back to his father. 
Genesis37:23 When Joseph came to his brothers, he was wearing his beautiful robe. They took it away from him." 
Genesis37:24 And they threw him into the well. The well was empty. There wasn't any water in it. 
Genesis37:25 Then they sat down to eat their meal. As they did, they saw some Ishmaelite traders coming from Gilead. Their camels were loaded with spices, lotion and myrrh. They were on their way to take them down to Egypt." 
Genesis37:26 Judah said to his brothers, ""What will we gain if we kill our brother and try to cover up what we've done?" 
Genesis37:27 Come. Let's sell him to these traders. Let's not harm him ourselves. After all, he's our brother. He's our own flesh and blood."" Judah's brothers agreed with him." 
Genesis37:28 The traders from Midian came by. Joseph's brothers pulled him up out of the well. They sold him to the Ishmaelite traders for eight ounces of silver. Then the traders took him to Egypt. 
Genesis37:29 Later, Reuben came back to the empty well. He saw that Joseph wasn't there. He was so upset that he tore his clothes." 
Genesis37:30 He went back to his brothers and said, ""The boy isn't there! Now what should I do?""" 
Genesis37:31 Then they got Joseph's beautiful robe. They killed a goat and dipped the robe in the blood. 
Genesis37:32 They took it back to their father. They said, ""We found this. Take a look at it. See if it's your son's robe.""" 
Genesis37:33 Jacob recognized it. He said, ""It's my son's robe! A wild animal has eaten him up. Joseph must have been torn to pieces.""" 
Genesis37:34 Jacob tore his clothes. He put on black clothes. Then he sobbed over his son for many days. 
Genesis37:35 All of Jacob's other sons and daughters came to comfort him. But they weren't able to. He said, ""I'll be full of sorrow when I go down into the grave to be with my son."" So Joseph's father sobbed over him." 
Genesis37:36 But the traders from Midian sold Joseph to Potiphar in Egypt. Potiphar was one of Pharaoh's officials. He was the captain of the palace guard. 
Genesis38:1 At that time, Judah left his brothers. He went down to stay with a man named Hirah. Hirah was from the town of Adullam." 
Genesis38:2 There Judah met the daughter of a man from Canaan. His name was Shua. Judah married her and made love to her. 
Genesis38:3 She became pregnant. She had a son. They named him Er. 
Genesis38:4 She became pregnant again and had another son. She named him Onan. 
Genesis38:5 She had still another son. She named him Shelah. He was born at Kezib. 
Genesis38:6 Judah got a wife for his oldest son Er. Her name was Tamar. 
Genesis38:7 But Judah's oldest son Er was evil in the Lord's eyes. So the Lord put him to death. 
Genesis38:8 Then Judah said to Onan, ""Make love to your brother's wife. After all, you are her brother-in-law. So carry out your duty to her. Produce children for your brother.""" 
Genesis38:9 But Onan knew that the children wouldn't belong to him. So every time he made love to his brother's wife, he spilled his semen on the ground. He did it so he wouldn't produce children for his brother." 
Genesis38:10 What he did was evil in the Lord's eyes. So the Lord put him to death also. 
Genesis38:11 Then Judah spoke to his daughter-in-law Tamar. He said, ""Live as a widow in your father's home. Wait there until my son Shelah grows up."" Judah was thinking, ""Shelah might die too, just like his brothers."" So Tamar went to live in her father's home." 
Genesis38:12 After a long time Judah's wife died. She was the daughter of Shua. When Judah got over his sadness, he went up to Timnah. His friend Hirah from Adullam went with him. Men were clipping the wool from Judah's sheep at Timnah." 
Genesis38:13 Tamar was told, ""Your father-in-law is on his way to Timnah to clip the wool from his sheep.""" 
Genesis38:14 So she took off her widow's clothes. She covered her face with a veil so people wouldn't know who she was. Then she sat down at the entrance to Enaim. Enaim is on the road to Timnah. Tamar knew that Shelah had grown up. But she hadn't been given to him as his wife. 
Genesis38:15 Judah saw her. He thought she was a prostitute because she had covered her face with a veil. 
Genesis38:16 He didn't realize that she was his daughter-in-law. He went over to her by the side of the road. He said, ""Come. Let me make love to you."" ""What will you give me to make love to you?"" she asked." 
Genesis38:17 I'll send you a young goat from my flock,"" he said. ""Will you give me something that belongs to you?"" she asked. ""I'll keep it until you send the goat.""" 
Genesis38:18 He said, ""What should I give you?"" ""Give me your seal and its string,"" she answered. ""And give me your walking stick."" So he gave them to her. Then he had sex with her. And she became pregnant by him." 
Genesis38:19 After she left, she took off her veil. She put on her widow's clothes again." 
Genesis38:20 Judah sent his friend Hirah with the young goat he had promised. He wanted to get back what he had given to the woman. But his friend Hirah couldn't find her. 
Genesis38:21 He asked the men who lived at Enaim, ""Where's the temple prostitute? She used to sit beside the road here."" ""There hasn't been any temple prostitute here,"" they said." 
Genesis38:22 So Hirah went back to Judah. He said, ""I couldn't find her. Besides, the men who lived there didn't know anything about her. They said, 'There hasn't been any temple prostitute here.' """ 
Genesis38:23 Then Judah said, ""Let her keep what she has. I don't want people making fun of us. After all, I did send her this young goat. We can't help it if you couldn't find her.""" 
Genesis38:24 About three months later people brought word to Judah. They said, ""Your daughter-in-law Tamar is guilty of being a prostitute. Now she's pregnant."" Judah said, ""Bring her out! Have her burned to death!""" 
Genesis38:25 As Tamar was being brought out, she sent a message to her father-in-law. She said, ""I am pregnant by the man who owns these."" She continued, ""Do you recognize this seal and string and walking stick? Do you know who they belong to?""" 
Genesis38:26 Judah recognized them. He said, ""She's a better person than I am. I should have given her to my son Shelah, but I didn't."" Judah never had sex with Tamar again." 
Genesis38:27 The time came for Tamar to have her baby. There were twin boys inside her. 
Genesis38:28 As the babies were being born, one of them stuck out his hand. So the woman who was helping Tamar took a bright red thread. The woman tied it on the baby's wrist. She said, ""This one came out first.""" 
Genesis38:29 But he pulled his hand back, and his brother came out first instead. She said, ""Just look at how you have broken out!"" So he was called Perez." 
Genesis38:30 Then his brother, who had the red thread on his wrist, came out. So he was named Zerah." 
Genesis39:1 Joseph had been taken down to Egypt. An Egyptian named Potiphar had bought him from the Ishmaelite traders who had taken him there. Potiphar was one of Pharaoh's officials. He was the captain of the palace guard. 
Genesis39:2 The Lord was with Joseph. He gave him great success. Joseph lived in Potiphar's house. 
Genesis39:3 Joseph's master saw that the Lord was with him. He saw that the Lord gave Joseph success in everything he did. 
Genesis39:4 So Potiphar was pleased with Joseph. He made him his attendant. He put Joseph in charge of his house. He told Joseph to take good care of everything he owned. 
Genesis39:5 From that time on, the Lord blessed Potiphar's family and servants because of Joseph. He blessed everything Potiphar had in his house and field." 
Genesis39:6 So Potiphar told Joseph to take good care of everything he owned. With Joseph in charge, he didn't have to worry about anything except the food he ate. Joseph was strong and handsome." 
Genesis39:7 After a while, his master's wife noticed Joseph. She said to him, ""Make love to me!""" 
Genesis39:8 But he said no. My master has put me in charge,"" he told her. ""Now he doesn't have to worry about anything in the house. He trusts me to take care of everything he owns." 
Genesis39:9 No one in this house is in a higher position than I am. My master hasn't held anything back from me, except you. You are his wife. So how could I do an evil thing like that? How could I sin against God?""" 
Genesis39:10 She spoke to Joseph day after day. But he told her he wouldn't make love to her. He didn't even want to be with her. 
Genesis39:11 One day Joseph went into the house to take care of his duties. None of the family servants was inside. 
Genesis39:12 Potiphar's wife grabbed hold of him by his coat. Make love to me! she said. But he left his coat in her hand. And he ran out of the house. 
Genesis39:13 She saw that he had left his coat in her hand and had run out of the house. 
Genesis39:14 So she called her servants. Look,"" she said to them, ""this Hebrew slave has been brought here to make fun of us! He came in here to force me to have sex with him. But I screamed for help." 
Genesis39:15 He heard my scream. So he left his coat beside me and ran out of the house. 
Genesis39:16 She kept Joseph's coat with her until Potiphar came home. 
Genesis39:17 Then she told him her story. She said, ""That Hebrew slave you brought us came to me to rape me." 
Genesis39:18 But I screamed for help. So he left his coat beside me and ran out of the house. 
Genesis39:19 Potiphar's wife told him, ""That's how your slave treated me."" When Joseph's master heard her story, he became very angry." 
Genesis39:20 So he put Joseph in prison. It was the place where the king's prisoners were kept. While Joseph was there in the prison," 
Genesis39:21 the Lord was with him. He was kind to him. So the man who was running the prison was pleased with Joseph. 
Genesis39:22 He put Joseph in charge of all of the prisoners. He made him accountable for everything that was done there. 
Genesis39:23 The man who ran the prison didn't pay attention to anything that was in Joseph's care. The Lord was with Joseph. He gave Joseph success in everything he did. 
Genesis40:1 Some time later, the Egyptian king's baker and wine taster did something their master didn't like." 
Genesis40:2 So Pharaoh became angry with his two officials, the chief wine taster and the chief baker." 
Genesis40:3 He put them in prison in the house of the captain of the palace guard. It was the same prison where Joseph was kept. 
Genesis40:4 The captain put Joseph in charge of those men. So Joseph took care of them. Some time passed while they were in prison. 
Genesis40:5 Then each of the two men had a dream. The men were the Egyptian king's baker and wine taster. They were being held in prison. Both of them had dreams the same night. Each of their dreams had its own meaning. 
Genesis40:6 Joseph came to them the next morning. He saw that they were sad. 
Genesis40:7 They were Pharaoh's officials, and they were in prison with Joseph in his master's house. So he asked them, ""Why do you look so sad today?""" 
Genesis40:8 We both had dreams,"" they answered. ""But no one can tell us what they mean."" Then Joseph said to them, ""Only God knows what dreams mean. Tell me your dreams.""" 
Genesis40:9 So the chief wine taster told Joseph his dream. He said to him, ""In my dream I saw a vine in front of me." 
Genesis40:10 There were three branches on the vine. As soon as it budded, it flowered. And bunches of ripe grapes grew on it." 
Genesis40:11 Pharaoh's cup was in my hand. I took the grapes. I squeezed them into Pharaoh's cup. Then I put the cup in his hand. 
Genesis40:12 Here's what your dream means,"" Joseph said to him. ""The three branches are three days." 
Genesis40:13 In three days Pharaoh will let you out of prison. He'll give your position back to you. And you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand. That's what you used to do when you were his wine taster. 
Genesis40:14 But when everything is going well with you, remember me. Do me a favor. Speak to Pharaoh about me. Get me out of this prison." 
Genesis40:15 I was taken away from the land of the Hebrews by force. Even here I haven't done anything to be put in prison for. 
Genesis40:16 The chief baker saw that Joseph had given a positive meaning to the wine taster's dream. So he said to Joseph, ""I had a dream too. There were three baskets of bread on my head." 
Genesis40:17 All kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh were in the top basket. But the birds were eating them out of the basket that was on my head. 
Genesis40:18 Here's what your dream means,"" Joseph said. ""The three baskets are three days." 
Genesis40:19 In three days Pharaoh will cut your head off. Then he will stick a pole through your body and set the pole up. The birds will eat up your body. 
Genesis40:20 The third day was Pharaoh's birthday. He had a big dinner prepared for all of his officials. He brought the chief wine taster and the chief baker out of prison. He did it in front of his officials. 
Genesis40:21 He gave the chief wine taster's position back to him. Once again the wine taster put the cup into Pharaoh's hand. 
Genesis40:22 But Pharaoh had a pole stuck through the chief baker's body. Then he had the pole set up. Everything happened exactly as Joseph had told them when he explained their dreams. 
Genesis40:23 But the chief wine taster didn't remember Joseph. In fact, he forgot all about him." 
Genesis41:1 When two full years had passed, Pharaoh had a dream. In his dream, he was standing by the Nile River." 
Genesis41:2 Seven cows came up out of the river. They looked healthy and fat. They were eating some of the tall grass that was growing along the river. 
Genesis41:3 After them, seven other cows came up out of the Nile. They looked ugly and skinny. They were standing beside the other cows on the riverbank." 
Genesis41:4 The ugly, skinny cows ate up the seven cows that looked healthy and fat. Then Pharaoh woke up." 
Genesis41:5 He fell asleep again and had a second dream. In that dream, seven heads of grain were growing on one stem. They were healthy and good." 
Genesis41:6 After them, seven other heads of grain came up. They were thin and dried up by the east wind." 
Genesis41:7 The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven healthy, full heads. Then Pharaoh woke up. It had been a dream." 
Genesis41:8 In the morning he was worried. So he sent for all of the magicians and wise men of Egypt. Pharaoh told them his dreams. But no one could tell him what they meant. 
Genesis41:9 Then the chief wine taster spoke up. He said to Pharaoh, ""Now I remember that I've done something wrong." 
Genesis41:10 Pharaoh was once angry with his servants. He put me and the chief baker in prison. We were in the house of the captain of the palace guard. 
Genesis41:11 Each of us had a dream the same night. Each dream had its own meaning. 
Genesis41:12 A young Hebrew servant was there with us. He was a servant of the captain of the guard. We told him our dreams. And he explained them to us. He told each of us the meaning of our dreams. 
Genesis41:13 Things turned out exactly as he said they would. I was given back my position. The other man had a pole stuck through his body. 
Genesis41:14 So Pharaoh sent for Joseph. He was quickly brought out of the prison. Joseph shaved himself and changed his clothes. Then he came to Pharaoh. 
Genesis41:15 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ""I had a dream. No one can tell me what it means. But I've heard that when you hear a dream you can explain it.""" 
Genesis41:16 I can't do it,"" Joseph replied to Pharaoh. ""But God will give Pharaoh the answer he wants.""" 
Genesis41:17 Then Pharaoh told Joseph what he had dreamed. He said, ""I was standing on the bank of the Nile River." 
Genesis41:18 Seven cows came up out of the river. They were fat and good-looking. They were eating the tall grass that was growing along the river. 
Genesis41:19 After them, seven other cows came up. They were bony and very ugly and thin. I had never seen such ugly cows in the whole land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:20 The thin, ugly cows ate up the seven fat cows that came up first." 
Genesis41:21 But even after the thin cows ate up the fat ones, no one could tell that they had eaten them. They looked just as ugly as before. Then I woke up." 
Genesis41:22 In my dreams I also saw seven heads of grain. They were full and good. They were all growing on one stem. 
Genesis41:23 After them, seven other heads of grain came up. They were weak and thin and dried up by the east wind." 
Genesis41:24 The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven good heads. I told my dreams to the magicians. But none of them could explain them to me. 
Genesis41:25 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, ""Both of Pharaoh's dreams have the same meaning. God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do." 
Genesis41:26 The seven good cows are seven years. And the seven good heads of grain are seven years. Both dreams mean the same thing. 
Genesis41:27 The seven thin, ugly cows that came up later are seven years. So are the seven worthless heads of grain that were dried up by the east wind. They are seven years when there won't be enough food." 
Genesis41:28 It's exactly as I said to Pharaoh. God has shown Pharaoh what he's about to do. 
Genesis41:29 Seven years with plenty of food are coming to the whole land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:30 But seven years when there won't be enough food will follow them. Then everyone will forget about all of the food Egypt had. Terrible hunger will destroy the land. 
Genesis41:31 There won't be anything left to remind people of the years when there was plenty of food in the land. That's how bad the hunger that follows will be. 
Genesis41:32 God gave the dream to Pharaoh in two forms. That's because the matter has been firmly decided by God. And it's because God will do it soon. 
Genesis41:33 So Pharaoh should look for a wise and understanding man. He should put him in charge of the land of Egypt. 
Genesis41:34 Pharaoh should appoint officials to be in charge of the land. They should take a fifth of the harvest in Egypt during the seven years when there's plenty of food. 
Genesis41:35 They should collect all of the extra food of the good years that are coming. Pharaoh should give them authority to store up the grain. They should keep it in the cities for food. 
Genesis41:36 The grain should be stored up for the country to use later. It will be needed during the seven years when there isn't enough food in Egypt. Then the country won't be destroyed just because it doesn't have enough food. 
Genesis41:37 The plan seemed good to Pharaoh and all of his officials. 
Genesis41:38 So Pharaoh said to them, ""The spirit of God is in this man. We can't find anyone else like him, can we?""" 
Genesis41:39 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, ""God has made all of this known to you. No one is as wise and understanding as you are." 
Genesis41:40 You will be in charge of my palace. All of my people must obey your orders. I will be greater than you only because I'm the one who sits on the throne. 
Genesis41:41 So Pharaoh said to Joseph, ""I'm putting you in charge of the whole land of Egypt.""" 
Genesis41:42 Then Pharaoh took his ring off his finger. It was the ring he used to stamp all of the official papers. He put it on Joseph's finger. He dressed him in robes that were made out of fine linen. He put a gold chain around his neck. 
Genesis41:43 He also had him ride in a chariot. Joseph was now next in command after Pharaoh. People went in front of him and shouted, ""Get down on your knees!"" By doing all of those things, Pharaoh put Joseph in charge of the whole land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:44 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, ""I am Pharaoh. But without your word, no one will do anything in the whole land of Egypt.""" 
Genesis41:45 Pharaoh gave Joseph the name Zaphenath-Paneah. He gave him a wife. She was Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera. Potiphera was the priest of On. Joseph traveled all over the land of Egypt." 
Genesis41:46 Joseph was 30 years old when he began serving Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He left Pharaoh's palace and traveled all over Egypt." 
Genesis41:47 During the seven years when there was plenty of food, the land produced more than the people needed." 
Genesis41:48 Joseph collected all of the extra food produced in those seven years in Egypt. He stored it in the cities. In each city he stored up the food that was grown in the fields around it. 
Genesis41:49 Joseph stored up huge amounts of grain. It was like the sand of the sea. There was so much grain it couldn't be measured. So Joseph stopped keeping records of it. 
Genesis41:50 Before the years when there wasn't enough food, two sons were born to Joseph. He had them by Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera. Potiphera was the priest of On." 
Genesis41:51 Joseph named his first son Manasseh. That's because he said, ""God has made me forget all of my trouble and my father's whole family.""" 
Genesis41:52 He named the second son Ephraim. That's because he said, ""God has given me children in the land where I've suffered so much.""" 
Genesis41:53 The seven years when there was plenty of food in Egypt came to an end. 
Genesis41:54 Then the seven years when there wasn't enough food began. It happened exactly as Joseph had said it would. There wasn't enough food in any of the other lands. But in the whole land of Egypt there was food. 
Genesis41:55 When all of the people of Egypt began to get hungry, they cried out to Pharaoh for food. He told all of the Egyptians, ""Go to Joseph. Do what he tells you.""" 
Genesis41:56 There wasn't enough food anywhere in the country. So Joseph opened the storerooms. He sold grain to the Egyptians because people were very hungry all over Egypt. 
Genesis41:57 People from all of the other countries came to Egypt. They came to buy grain from Joseph. That's because people were very hungry all over the world. 
Genesis42:1 Jacob found out that there was grain in Egypt. So he said to his sons, ""Why do you just keep looking at each other?""" 
Genesis42:2 He continued, ""I've heard there's grain in Egypt. Go down there. Buy some for us. Then we'll live and not die.""" 
Genesis42:3 So ten of Joseph's brothers went down to Egypt to buy grain there. 
Genesis42:4 But Jacob didn't send Joseph's brother Benjamin with them. He was afraid Benjamin might be harmed. 
Genesis42:5 Israel's sons were among the people who went to buy grain. There wasn't enough food in the land of Canaan. 
Genesis42:6 Joseph was the governor of the land. He was the one who sold grain to all of its people. When Joseph's brothers arrived, they bowed down to him with their faces to the ground." 
Genesis42:7 As soon as Joseph saw his brothers, he recognized them. But he pretended to be a stranger. He spoke to them in a mean way. ""Where do you come from?"" he asked. ""From the land of Canaan,"" they replied. ""We've come to buy food.""" 
Genesis42:8 Joseph recognized his brothers, but they didn't recognize him." 
Genesis42:9 Then Joseph remembered his dreams about them. So he said to them, ""You are spies! You have come to see the places where our land isn't guarded very well.""" 
Genesis42:10 No, sir,"" they answered. ""We've come to buy food." 
Genesis42:11 All of us are the sons of one man. We're honest men. We aren't spies. 
Genesis42:12 No! he said to them. You have come to see the places where our land isn't guarded very well. 
Genesis42:13 But they replied, ""We were 12 brothers. All of us were the sons of one man. He lives in the land of Canaan. Our youngest brother is now with our father. And one brother is gone.""" 
Genesis42:14 Joseph said to them, ""I still say you are spies!" 
Genesis42:15 So I'm going to put you to the test. You can be sure that Pharaoh lives. And you can be just as sure that you won't leave this place unless your youngest brother comes here. I promise with an oath that you won't leave here. 
Genesis42:16 Send one of you back to get your brother. The rest of you will be kept in prison. I'll put your words to the test. Then we'll find out whether you are telling the truth. You can be sure that Pharaoh lives. And you can be just as sure that if you aren't telling the truth, we'll know that you are spies!""" 
Genesis42:17 So Joseph kept all of them under guard for three days. 
Genesis42:18 On the third day, Joseph spoke to them again. He said, ""Do what I say. Then you will live, because I have respect for God." 
Genesis42:19 If you are honest men, let one of your brothers stay here in prison. The rest of you may go and take grain back to your hungry families." 
Genesis42:20 But you must bring your youngest brother to me. That will prove that your words are true. Then you won't die. So they did what he said. 
Genesis42:21 They said to one another, ""God is certainly punishing us because of our brother. We saw how troubled he was when he begged us to let him live. But we wouldn't listen. That's why all of this trouble has come to us.""" 
Genesis42:22 Reuben replied, ""Didn't I tell you not to sin against the boy? But you wouldn't listen! Now we're being held accountable for killing him.""" 
Genesis42:23 They didn't realize that Joseph could understand what they were saying. He was using someone else to explain their words to him in the Egyptian language. 
Genesis42:24 Joseph turned away from them and began to sob. Then he turned around and spoke to them again. He had Simeon taken and tied up right there in front of them. 
Genesis42:25 Joseph gave orders to have their bags filled with grain. He had each man's money put back into his sack. He also made sure they were given food for their journey. 
Genesis42:26 Then the brothers loaded their grain on their donkeys and left. 
Genesis42:27 When night came, they stopped. One of them opened his sack to get feed for his donkey. He saw his money in the top of his sack." 
Genesis42:28 My money has been given back,"" he said to his brothers. ""Here it is in my sack."" They had a sinking feeling in their hearts. They began to tremble. They turned to each other and said, ""What has God done to us?""" 
Genesis42:29 They came to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan. They told him everything that had happened to them. They said," 
Genesis42:30 The man who is the governor of the land spoke to us in a mean way. He treated us as if we were spying on the land. 
Genesis42:31 But we said to him, 'We're honest men. We aren't spies." 
Genesis42:32 We were 12 brothers. All of us were the sons of one father. But now one brother is gone. And our youngest brother is with our father in Canaan.' 
Genesis42:33 Then the man who is the governor of the land spoke to us. He said, 'Here's how I will know whether you are honest men. Leave one of your brothers here with me. Take food for your hungry families and go." 
Genesis42:34  'But bring your youngest brother to me. Then I'll know that you are honest men and not spies. I'll give your brother back to you. And you will be free to trade in the land.' 
Genesis42:35 They began emptying their sacks. There in each man's sack was his bag of money! When they and their father saw the money bags, they were afraid." 
Genesis42:36 Their father Jacob said to them, ""You have taken my children away from me. Joseph is gone. Simeon is gone. Now you want to take Benjamin. Everything is going against me!""" 
Genesis42:37 Then Reuben spoke to his father. He said, ""You can put both of my sons to death if I don't bring Benjamin back to you. Place him in my care. I'll bring him back.""" 
Genesis42:38 But Jacob said, ""My son will not go down there with you. His brother is dead. He's the only one left here with me. Suppose he's harmed on the journey you are taking. Then I would die as a sad old man. I would go down into the grave full of sorrow.""" 
Genesis43:1 There still wasn't enough food anywhere in the land. 
Genesis43:2 After a while Jacob's family had eaten all of the grain the brothers had brought from Egypt. So their father said to them, ""Go back. Buy us a little more food.""" 
Genesis43:3 But Judah said to him, ""The man gave us a strong warning. He said, 'You won't see my face again unless your brother comes with you.'" 
Genesis43:4 So send our brother along with us. Then we'll go down and buy food for you. 
Genesis43:5 If you won't send him, we won't go down. The man said to us, 'You won't see my face again unless your brother comes with you.' """ 
Genesis43:6 Israel asked, ""Why did you bring this trouble to me? Why did you tell the man you had another brother?""" 
Genesis43:7 They replied, ""The man questioned us closely about ourselves and our family. 'Is your father still living?' he asked us. 'Do you have another brother?' ""We just answered his questions. How could we possibly know he would say, 'Bring your brother down here'?""" 
Genesis43:8 Judah spoke to Israel his father. Send the boy along with me,"" he said. ""We'll go at once. Then we and you and our children will live and not die." 
Genesis43:9 I myself promise to keep him safe. You can hold me accountable for him. I'll bring him back to you. I'll set him right here in front of you. If I don't, you can put the blame on me for the rest of my life." 
Genesis43:10 As it is, we've already waited too long. We could have gone to Egypt and back twice by now.""" 
Genesis43:11 Then their father Israel spoke to them. He said, ""If that's the way it has to be, then do what I tell you. Put some of the best things from our land in your bags. Take them down to the man as a gift. Take some lotion and a little honey. Take some spices and myrrh. Take some pistachio nuts and almonds." 
Genesis43:12 Take twice the amount of money with you. You have to give back the money that was put in your sacks. Maybe it was a mistake. 
Genesis43:13 Also take your brother. Go back to the man at once. 
Genesis43:14 May the Mighty God cause him to show you mercy. May the man let your other brother and Benjamin come back with you. And if I lose my sons, I lose them.""" 
Genesis43:15 So the men took the gifts. They took twice the amount of money. They also took Benjamin. They hurried down to Egypt and went to Joseph. 
Genesis43:16 When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he spoke to the manager of his house. ""Take these men to my house,"" he said. ""Kill an animal and prepare dinner. I want them to eat with me at noon.""" 
Genesis43:17 The manager did what Joseph told him to do. He took the men to Joseph's house. 
Genesis43:18 They were afraid when they were taken to Joseph's house. They thought, ""We were brought here because of the money that was put back in our sacks the first time. He wants to attack us and overpower us. Then he can hold us as slaves and take our donkeys.""" 
Genesis43:19 So they went up to Joseph's manager. They spoke to him at the entrance to the house. 
Genesis43:20 Please, sir,"" they said. ""We came down here the first time to buy food." 
Genesis43:21 We opened our sacks at the place where we stopped for the night. Each of us found in our sacks the money we had paid. So we've brought it back with us. 
Genesis43:22 We've also brought more money with us to buy food. We don't know who put our money in our sacks. 
Genesis43:23 It's all right,"" the manager said. ""Don't be afraid. Your God, the God of your father, has given you riches in your sacks. I received your money."" Then he brought Simeon out to them." 
Genesis43:24 The manager took the men into Joseph's house. He gave them water to wash their feet. He provided feed for their donkeys. 
Genesis43:25 They prepared their gifts for Joseph. He was planning to arrive at noon. They had heard that they were going to eat there. 
Genesis43:26 When Joseph came home, they gave him the gifts they had brought into the house. They bowed down to the ground in front of him." 
Genesis43:27 He asked them how they were. Then he said, ""How is your old father you told me about? Is he still living?""" 
Genesis43:28 They replied, ""Your servant our father is still alive and well."" And they bowed low to show him honor." 
Genesis43:29 Joseph looked around. Then he saw his brother Benjamin, his own mother's son. He asked, ""Is this your youngest brother? Is he the one you told me about?"" He continued, ""May God be gracious to you, my son.""" 
Genesis43:30 It moved him deeply to see his brother. So Joseph hurried out and looked for a place to cry. He went into his own room and cried there. 
Genesis43:31 Then he washed his face and came out. He calmed down and said, ""Serve the food.""" 
Genesis43:32 They served Joseph by himself. They served the brothers by themselves. They also served the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves. Because of their beliefs, Egyptians couldn't eat with Hebrews." 
Genesis43:33 The brothers had been given places in front of Joseph. They had been seated in the order of their ages, from the oldest to the youngest. That made them look at each other in great surprise." 
Genesis43:34 While they were eating, some food was brought to them from Joseph's table. Benjamin was given five times as much as anyone else. So all of Joseph's brothers ate and drank a lot with him." 
Genesis44:1 Joseph told the manager of his house what to do. Fill the men's sacks with as much food as they can carry,"" he said. ""Put each man's money in his sack." 
Genesis44:2 Then put my silver cup in the youngest one's sack. Put it there along with the money he paid for his grain. So the manager did what Joseph told him to do. 
Genesis44:3 When morning came, the men were sent on their way with their donkeys." 
Genesis44:4 They hadn't gone very far from the city when Joseph spoke to his manager. Go after those men at once,"" he said. ""Catch up with them. Say to them, 'My master was good to you. Why have you paid him back by doing evil?" 
Genesis44:5 Isn't this the cup my master drinks from? Doesn't he also use it to figure things out? You have done an evil thing.' 
Genesis44:6 When the manager caught up with them, he told them what Joseph had said." 
Genesis44:7 But they said to him, ""Why do you say these things? We would never do anything like that!" 
Genesis44:8 We even brought back to you from Canaan the money we found in our sacks. So why would we steal silver or gold from your master's house? 
Genesis44:9 If you find out that any of us has the cup, he will die. And the rest of us will become your slaves.""" 
Genesis44:10 All right, then,"" he said. ""As you wish. The one who is found to have the cup will become my slave. But the rest of you will be free from blame.""" 
Genesis44:11 Each of them quickly put his sack down on the ground and opened it. 
Genesis44:12 Then the manager started to search. He began with the oldest and ended with the youngest. The cup was found in Benjamin's sack. 
Genesis44:13 When that happened, they were so upset they tore their clothes. Then all of them loaded their donkeys and went back to the city." 
Genesis44:14 Joseph was still in the house when Judah and his brothers came in. They threw themselves down on the ground in front of him. 
Genesis44:15 Joseph said to them, ""What have you done? Don't you know that a man like me has ways to figure things out?""" 
Genesis44:16 What can we say to you? Judah replied. What can we say? How can we prove we haven't done anything wrong? God has shown you that we are guilty. We are now your slaves. All of us are, including the one who was found to have the cup.""" 
Genesis44:17 But Joseph said, ""I would never do anything like that! Only the man who was found to have the cup will become my slave. The rest of you may go back to your father in peace.""" 
Genesis44:18 Then Judah went up to him. He said, ""Please, sir. Let me speak a word to you. Don't be angry with me, even though you are equal to Pharaoh himself." 
Genesis44:19 You asked us, 'Do you have a father or a brother?'" 
Genesis44:20 We answered, 'We have an old father. A young son was born to him when he was old. His brother is dead. He's the only one of his mother's sons left. And his father loves him.'" 
Genesis44:21 Then you said to us, 'Bring him down to me. I want to see him for myself.'" 
Genesis44:22 We said to you, 'The boy can't leave his father. If he does, his father will die.'" 
Genesis44:23 But you told us, 'Your youngest brother must come down here with you. If he doesn't, you won't see my face again.'" 
Genesis44:24 So we went back to my father. We told him what you had said. 
Genesis44:25 Then our father said, 'Go back. Buy a little more food.'" 
Genesis44:26 But we said, 'We can't go down. We'll only go if our youngest brother goes there with us. We can't even see the man's face unless our youngest brother goes with us.'" 
Genesis44:27 Your servant my father said to us, 'You know that my wife had two sons by me." 
Genesis44:28 One of them went away from me. And I said, ""He must have been torn to pieces."" I haven't seen him since." 
Genesis44:29 What if you take this one from me too and he is harmed? Then you would cause me to die as a sad old man. I would go down into the grave full of pain and suffering.' 
Genesis44:30 So now, what will happen if the boy isn't with us when I go back to my father? His life is closely tied up with the boy's life." 
Genesis44:31 When he sees that the boy isn't with us, he'll die as a sad old man. Because of us, he'll go down into the grave full of sorrow." 
Genesis44:32 I promised my father I would keep the boy safe. I said, 'Father, I'll bring him back to you. If I don't, you can put the blame on me for the rest of my life.'" 
Genesis44:33 Now then, please let me stay here. Let me be your slave in place of the boy. Let the boy return with his brothers." 
Genesis44:34 How can I go back to my father if the boy isn't with me? Don't let me see the pain and suffering that would come to my father. 
Genesis45:1 Joseph couldn't control himself anymore in front of all of his attendants. He cried out, ""Have everyone leave me!"" So there wasn't anyone with Joseph when he told his brothers who he was." 
Genesis45:2 He sobbed so loudly that the Egyptians heard him. Everyone in Pharaoh's house heard about it. 
Genesis45:3 Joseph said to his brothers, ""I am Joseph! Is my father still alive?"" But his brothers weren't able to answer him. They were too afraid of him." 
Genesis45:4 Joseph said to his brothers, ""Come close to me."" So they did. Then he said, ""I am your brother Joseph. I'm the one you sold into Egypt." 
Genesis45:5 But don't be upset. And don't be angry with yourselves because you sold me here. God sent me ahead of you to save many lives. 
Genesis45:6 For two years now, there hasn't been enough food in the land. And for the next five years, people won't be plowing or gathering crops." 
Genesis45:7 But God sent me ahead of you to keep some of you alive on earth. He sent me here to save your lives by an act of mighty power. 
Genesis45:8 So then, it wasn't you who sent me here. It was God. He made me like a father to Pharaoh. He made me master of Pharaoh's whole house. He made me ruler of the whole land of Egypt." 
Genesis45:9 Now hurry back to my father. Say to him, 'Your son Joseph says, ""God has made me master of the whole land of Egypt. Come down to me. Don't waste any time." 
Genesis45:10 You will live in the area of Goshen. You, your children and grandchildren, your flocks and herds, and everything you have will be near me." 
Genesis45:11 There I will provide everything you need.  ' Five years without enough food are still coming. If you don't come down here, you and your family and everyone who belongs to you will lose everything."" '" 
Genesis45:12 Brothers, you can see for yourselves that it's really I, Joseph, speaking to you. My brother Benjamin can see it too." 
Genesis45:13 Tell my father about all of the honor that has been given to me in Egypt. Tell him about everything you have seen. And bring my father down here quickly. 
Genesis45:14 Then Joseph threw his arms around his brother Benjamin and sobbed. Benjamin also hugged him and sobbed. 
Genesis45:15 Joseph kissed all of his brothers and sobbed over them. After that, his brothers talked with him." 
Genesis45:16 The news reached Pharaoh's palace that Joseph's brothers had come. Pharaoh and all of his officials were pleased. 
Genesis45:17 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ""Here's what I want you to tell your brothers. Say to them, 'Load your animals. Return to the land of Canaan." 
Genesis45:18 Bring your father and your families back to me. I'll give you the best land in Egypt. You can enjoy all of the good things in the land.' 
Genesis45:19 And here's something else I want you to tell them. Say to them, 'Take some carts from Egypt. Your children and your wives can use them. Get your father and come back." 
Genesis45:20 Don't worry about the things you have back there. The best of everything in Egypt will belong to you.' 
Genesis45:21 So the sons of Israel did it. Joseph gave them carts, as Pharaoh had commanded. He also gave them supplies for their journey." 
Genesis45:22 He gave new clothes to each of them. But he gave more than seven pounds of silver to Benjamin. He also gave him five sets of clothes. 
Genesis45:23 He sent his father ten donkeys loaded with the best things from Egypt. He also sent ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and other supplies for his journey. 
Genesis45:24 Then Joseph sent his brothers away. As they were leaving he said to them, ""Don't argue on the way!""" 
Genesis45:25 So they went up out of Egypt. They came to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan. 
Genesis45:26 They told him, ""Joseph is still alive! In fact, he is ruler of the whole land of Egypt."" Jacob was shocked. He didn't believe them." 
Genesis45:27 So they told him everything Joseph had said to them. Jacob saw the carts Joseph had sent to carry him back. That gave new life to their father Jacob. 
Genesis45:28 Israel said, ""I believe it now! My son Joseph is still alive. I'll go and see him before I die.""" 
Genesis46:1 So Israel started out with everything that belonged to him. When he reached Beersheba, he offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac." 
Genesis46:2 God spoke to Israel in a vision at night. Jacob! Jacob! he said. Here I am,"" Jacob replied." 
Genesis46:3 I am God. I am the God of your father,"" he said. ""Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt. There I will make you into a great nation." 
Genesis46:4 I will go down to Egypt with you. You can be sure that I will bring you back again. And when you die, Joseph will close your eyes with his own hand.""" 
Genesis46:5 Then Jacob left Beersheba. Israel's sons put their father Jacob and their families in the carts that Pharaoh had sent to carry them. 
Genesis46:6 So Jacob and his whole family went to Egypt. They took their livestock with them. And they took everything they had gotten in Canaan. 
Genesis46:7 Jacob took his sons and grandsons with him to Egypt. He also took his daughters and granddaughters. He took all of his children and grandchildren with him. 
Genesis46:8 Here are the names of Israel's children and grandchildren who went to Egypt. Jacob and all of his children and grandchildren are included. Reuben was Jacob's oldest son. 
Genesis46:9 The sons of Reuben were 'QF'Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi." 
Genesis46:10 The sons of Simeon were 'QF'Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar and Shaul. Shaul was the son of a woman from Canaan." 
Genesis46:11 The sons of Levi were 'QF'Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
Genesis46:12 The sons of Judah were 'QF'Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez and Zerah. But Er and Onan had died in the land of Canaan. The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul." 
Genesis46:13 The sons of Issachar were 'QF'Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron." 
Genesis46:14 The sons of Zebulun were 'QF'Sered, Elon and Jahleel." 
Genesis46:15 Those were the sons and grandsons who were born to Jacob and Leah in Paddan Aram. Leah also had a daughter by Jacob. Her name was Dinah. The total number of people in the family line of Jacob and Leah was 33. 
Genesis46:16 The sons of Gad were 'QF'Zephon, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi and Areli." 
Genesis46:17 The sons of Asher were 'QF'Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi and Beriah. Their sister was Serah. The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malkiel." 
Genesis46:18 Those were the children and grandchildren who were born to Jacob and Zilpah. Laban had given Zilpah to his daughter Leah. The total number of people in the family line of Jacob and Zilpah was 16. 
Genesis46:19 The sons of Jacob's wife Rachel were 'QF'Joseph and Benjamin. 
Genesis46:20 In Egypt, Asenath had Manasseh and Ephraim by Joseph. Asenath was the daughter of Potiphera. Potiphera was the priest of On." 
Genesis46:21 The sons of Benjamin were 'QF'Bela, Beker, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim and Ard." 
Genesis46:22 Those were the sons and grandsons who were born to Jacob and Rachel. The total number of people in the family line of Jacob and Rachel was 14. 
Genesis46:23 The son of Dan was 'QF'Hushim. 
Genesis46:24 The sons of Naphtali were 'QF'Jahziel, Guni, Jezer and Shillem." 
Genesis46:25 Those were the sons and grandsons who were born to Jacob and Bilhah. Laban had given Bilhah to his daughter Rachel. The total number of people in the family line of Jacob and Bilhah was seven. 
Genesis46:26 The total number of those who went to Egypt with Jacob was 66. That number includes only his own children and grandchildren. It doesn't include his sons' wives or his grandsons' wives. 
Genesis46:27 The total number of the members of Jacob's family who went to Egypt was 70. That includes the two sons who had been born to Joseph in Egypt. 
Genesis46:28 Jacob sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph. He sent him to get directions to Goshen. And so they arrived in the area of Goshen. 
Genesis46:29 Then Joseph had his servants get his chariot ready. He went to Goshen to meet his father Israel. As soon as he came to his father, Joseph threw his arms around him. Then Joseph sobbed for a long time." 
Genesis46:30 Israel said to Joseph, ""I have seen for myself that you are still alive. Now I'm ready to die.""" 
Genesis46:31 Then Joseph spoke to his brothers and to the rest of his father's family. He said, ""I will go up and speak to Pharaoh. I'll say to him, 'My brothers and the rest of my father's family have come to me. They were living in the land of Canaan." 
Genesis46:32 The men are shepherds. They take care of livestock. They've brought along their flocks and herds and everything they own.' 
Genesis46:33 Pharaoh will send for you. He'll ask, 'What do you do for a living?'" 
Genesis46:34 You should answer, 'We've taken care of livestock from the time we were boys. We've done just as our fathers did.' It's the practice of the people of Egypt not to mix with shepherds. ""So Pharaoh will let you settle in the area of Goshen.""" 
Genesis47:1 Joseph went to Pharaoh. He told him, ""My father and brothers have come from the land of Canaan. They've brought along their flocks and herds and everything they own. They are now in Goshen.""" 
Genesis47:2 Joseph had chosen five of his brothers to meet with Pharaoh. 
Genesis47:3 Pharaoh asked the brothers, ""What do you do for a living?"" ""We're shepherds,"" they replied to Pharaoh. ""And that's what our fathers were.""" 
Genesis47:4 They also said to him, ""We've come to live in Egypt for a while. There isn't enough food anywhere in Canaan. There isn't any grass for our flocks. So please let us settle in Goshen.""" 
Genesis47:5 Pharaoh said to Joseph, ""Your father and your brothers have come to you." 
Genesis47:6 The land of Egypt is open to you. Settle your father and brothers in the best part of the land. Let them live in Goshen. Do any of them have special skills? If they do, put them in charge of my own livestock.""" 
Genesis47:7 Then Joseph brought his father Jacob in. He brought him in to meet Pharaoh. Jacob gave Pharaoh his blessing. 
Genesis47:8 Then Pharaoh asked him, ""How old are you?""" 
Genesis47:9 Jacob said to Pharaoh, ""The years of my journey through life are 130. My years have been few and hard. They aren't as many as the years of my fathers before me.""" 
Genesis47:10 Jacob gave Pharaoh his blessing. Then he left him. 
Genesis47:11 So Joseph settled his father and his brothers in Egypt. He gave them property in the best part of the land, just as Pharaoh had directed him to do. That part was known as the territory of Rameses." 
Genesis47:12 Joseph also provided food for his father and brothers. He provided for them and the rest of his father's family. He gave them enough for all of their children. 
Genesis47:13 But there wasn't any food in the whole area. In fact, there wasn't enough food anywhere. Both Egypt and Canaan lost their strength because there wasn't enough food to go around." 
Genesis47:14 Joseph collected all of the money that was in Egypt and Canaan. People paid it to him for the grain they were buying. And Joseph brought it to Pharaoh's palace. 
Genesis47:15 When the money of the people of Egypt and Canaan was gone, all of the Egyptians came to Joseph. They said, ""Give us food. Why should we die right in front of your eyes? Our money is all gone.""" 
Genesis47:16 Then bring your livestock,"" said Joseph. ""You say your money is gone. So I'll trade you food for your livestock.""" 
Genesis47:17 They brought their livestock to Joseph. He traded them food for their animals. They gave him their horses, sheep, goats, cattle and donkeys. He brought the people through that year by trading them food for all of their livestock." 
Genesis47:18 When that year was over, they came to him the next year. They said, ""We can't hide the truth from you. Our money is gone. Our livestock belongs to you. We don't have anything left to give you except our bodies and our land." 
Genesis47:19 Why should we die right in front of your eyes? Why should our land be destroyed as well? Trade us food for ourselves and our land. Then we and our land will belong to Pharaoh. Give us some seeds so we can live and not die. We don't want the land to become a desert. 
Genesis47:20 So Joseph bought all of the land in Egypt for Pharaoh. All of the people of Egypt sold their fields. They did that because there wasn't enough food anywhere. In that way, the land became Pharaoh's." 
Genesis47:21 Joseph made the people slaves from one end of Egypt to the other. 
Genesis47:22 But he didn't buy the land that belonged to the priests. They received a regular share of food from Pharaoh. They had enough food from what Pharaoh gave them. That's why they didn't have to sell their land. 
Genesis47:23 Joseph said to the people, ""I've bought you and your land today for Pharaoh. So here are some seeds for you to plant in the ground." 
Genesis47:24 But when the crop comes in, give a fifth of it to Pharaoh. Keep the other four-fifths for yourselves. They will be seeds for the fields. And they will be food for yourselves, your children, and the other people who live with you.""" 
Genesis47:25 You have saved our lives,"" they said. ""If you are pleased with us, we will be slaves to Pharaoh.""" 
Genesis47:26 So Joseph made a law about land in Egypt. It's still the law today. A fifth of the produce belongs to Pharaoh. Only the land belonging to the priests didn't become Pharaoh's. 
Genesis47:27 The people of Israel settled in Egypt in the area of Goshen. They received property there. They had children and greatly increased their numbers. 
Genesis47:28 Jacob lived 17 years in Egypt. He lived a total of 147 years. 
Genesis47:29 The time came near for Israel to die. So he sent for his son Joseph. He said to him, ""If you are pleased with me, put your hand under my thigh. Promise me that you will be kind and faithful to me. Don't bury me in Egypt." 
Genesis47:30 When I join the members of my family who have already died, carry me out of Egypt. Bury me where they are buried."" ""I'll do exactly as you say,"" Joseph said." 
Genesis47:31 Promise me with an oath that you will do it,"" Jacob said. So Joseph promised him. And Israel worshiped God as he leaned on the top of his wooden staff." 
Genesis48:1 Some time later Joseph was told, ""Your father is sick."" So he took his two sons Manasseh and Ephraim along with him." 
Genesis48:2 Jacob was told, ""Your son Joseph has come to you."" So Israel became stronger and sat up in bed." 
Genesis48:3 Jacob said to Joseph, ""The Mighty God appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan. He blessed me there." 
Genesis48:4 He said to me, 'I am going to give you children. I will increase your numbers. I will make you a community of nations. And I will give this land to your children after you. It will belong to them forever.'" 
Genesis48:5 Now then, two sons were born to you in Egypt. It happened before I came to you here. They will be counted as my own sons. Ephraim and Manasseh will belong to me, in the same way that Reuben and Simeon belong to me." 
Genesis48:6 Any children who are born to you after them will belong to you. Any territory they receive will come from the land that is given to Ephraim and Manasseh. 
Genesis48:7 As I was returning from Paddan, Rachel died. It made me very sad. She died in the land of Canaan while we were still on the way. We weren't very far away from Ephrath. So I buried her body there beside the road to Ephrath."" Ephrath was also called Bethlehem." 
Genesis48:8 Israel saw Joseph's sons. He asked, ""Who are they?""" 
Genesis48:9 They are the sons God has given me here,"" Joseph said to his father. Then Israel said, ""Bring them to me. I want to give them my blessing.""" 
Genesis48:10 Israel's eyes were weak because he was old. He couldn't see very well. So Joseph brought his sons close to him. His father kissed them and hugged them. 
Genesis48:11 Israel said to Joseph, ""I never thought I'd see your face again. But now God has let me see your children too.""" 
Genesis48:12 Then Joseph took his sons away from Israel's knees. He bowed down with his face to the ground. 
Genesis48:13 Joseph placed Ephraim on his right, toward Israel's left hand. He placed Manasseh on his left, toward Israel's right hand. Then he brought them close to Jacob." 
Genesis48:14 But Israel reached out his right hand and put it on Ephraim's head. He did it even though Ephraim was the younger son. He crossed his arms and put his left hand on Manasseh's head. He did it even though Manasseh was the older son. 
Genesis48:15 Then Israel gave Joseph his blessing. He said, ""May God bless these boys. He is the God of my grandfather Abraham and my father Isaac. They walked with him. He is the God who has been my shepherd all of my life to this very day." 
Genesis48:16 He is the Angel who has saved me from all harm. May he bless these boys. May they be called by my name. May they also be called by the names of my grandfather Abraham and my father Isaac. And may they greatly increase their numbers on the earth. 
Genesis48:17 Joseph saw his father putting his right hand on Ephraim's head. And Joseph didn't like it. So he took hold of his father's hand to move it over to Manasseh's head. 
Genesis48:18 Joseph said to him, ""No, my father. Here's my older son. Put your right hand on his head.""" 
Genesis48:19 But his father wouldn't do it. He said, ""I know, my son. I know. He too will become a nation. He too will become great. But his younger brother will be greater than he is. His children after him will become a group of nations.""" 
Genesis48:20 On that day, Jacob gave them his blessing. He said, ""In the land of Israel, people will bless others in your names. They will say, 'May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh.' ""So he put Ephraim ahead of Manasseh." 
Genesis48:21 Then Israel said to Joseph, ""I'm about to die. But God will be with all of you. He'll take you back to the land of your fathers." 
Genesis48:22 But you, Joseph, are over your brothers. So I'm giving you the range of hills I took from the Amorites. I took it with my sword and bow.""" 
Genesis49:1 Then Jacob sent for his sons. He said, ""Gather around me so I can tell you what will happen to you in days to come." 
Genesis49:2 Sons of Jacob, come together and listen. Listen to your father Israel." 
Genesis49:3 Reuben, you are my oldest son. You were my first child. You were the first sign of my strength. You were first in honor. You were first in power." 
Genesis49:4 But you are as unsteady as water. So you won't be first anymore. You had sex with your father's concubine in his bed. You lay on his couch and made it 'unclean.' 
Genesis49:5 Simeon and Levi are brothers. Their swords have killed a lot of people. 
Genesis49:6 I won't share in their plans. I won't have anything to do with them. They became angry and killed people. They cut the legs of oxen just for the fun of it. 
Genesis49:7 May the Lord put a curse on them because of their terrible anger. I will scatter them in Jacob's land. I will spread them around in Israel. 
Genesis49:8 Judah, your brothers will praise you. Your enemies will be brought under your control. Your father's sons will bow down to you." 
Genesis49:9 Judah, you are like a lion's cub. You return from hunting, my son. Like a lion, you lie down and sleep. You are like a mother lion. Who dares to wake you up?" 
Genesis49:10 The right to rule will not leave Judah. The ruler's rod will not be taken from between his feet. It will be his until the king it belongs to comes. It will be his until the nations obey him. 
Genesis49:11 He will tie his donkey to a vine. He will tie his colt to the very best branch. He will wash his clothes in wine. He will wash his robes in the red juice of grapes. 
Genesis49:12 His eyes will be darker than wine. His teeth will be whiter than milk. 
Genesis49:13 Zebulun will live by the seashore. He will become a safe harbor for ships. His border will go out toward Sidon. 
Genesis49:14 Issachar is like a donkey lying down between two saddlebags. 
Genesis49:15 He sees how good his resting place is. He sees that his land is pleasant. So he'll carry a heavy load on his back. He will obey when he's forced to work. 
Genesis49:16 Dan will do what is fair for his people. He will do it as one of the tribes of Israel. 
Genesis49:17 Dan will be a serpent by the side of the road. He will be a poisonous snake along the path. It bites the horse's heels so that the rider falls off backward. 
Genesis49:18 Lord, I look to you to save me." 
Genesis49:19 Gad will be attacked by a group of robbers. But he'll attack them as they run away. 
Genesis49:20 Asher's food will be rich and sweet. He will provide food that even a king would enjoy. 
Genesis49:21 Naphtali is a female deer that is set free and gives birth to beautiful fawns. 
Genesis49:22 Joseph is a vine that grows a lot of fruit. It grows close by a spring. Its branches climb over a wall. 
Genesis49:23 Mean people shot arrows at him. They shot at him because they were angry. 
Genesis49:24 But his bow remained steady. His strong arms moved freely. The hand of the Mighty One of Jacob was with him. The Shepherd, the Rock of Israel, stood by him." 
Genesis49:25 Your father's God helps you. The Mighty One blesses you. He gives you blessings from the highest heavens. He gives you blessings from the deepest oceans. He blesses you with children and with a mother's milk. 
Genesis49:26 Your father's blessings are great. They are greater than the blessings from the age-old mountains. They are greater than the gifts from the ancient hills. Let all of those blessings rest on the head of Joseph. Let them rest on the head of the one who is prince among his brothers. 
Genesis49:27 Benjamin is a hungry wolf. In the morning he eats what he has killed. In the evening he shares what he has stolen. 
Genesis49:28 All of those are the 12 tribes of Israel. That's what their father said to them when he blessed them. He gave each one the blessing that was just right for him. 
Genesis49:29 Then Jacob gave directions to his sons. He said, ""I'm about to join the members of my family who have already died. Bury me with them in the cave in the field of Ephron the Hittite." 
Genesis49:30 The cave is in the field of Machpelah near Mamre in Canaan. Abraham had bought it as a place where he could bury his wife's body. He had bought the cave from Ephron the Hittite, along with the field." 
Genesis49:31 The bodies of Abraham and his wife Sarah were buried there. So were the bodies of Isaac and his wife Rebekah. I also buried Leah's body there. 
Genesis49:32 Abraham bought the field and the cave from the Hittites. 
Genesis49:33 When Jacob had finished telling his sons what to do, he pulled his feet up into his bed. Then he took his last breath and joined the members of his family who had already died." 
Genesis50:1 Joseph threw himself on his father's body. He sobbed over him and kissed him. 
Genesis50:2 Then Joseph talked to the doctors who served him. He told them to prepare the body of his father Israel to be buried. So the doctors prepared it. 
Genesis50:3 They took 40 days to do it. They needed that much time to prepare a body in the right way. The Egyptians sobbed over Jacob for 70 days. 
Genesis50:4 After the days of sorrow had passed, Joseph went to Pharaoh's officials. He said to them, ""If you are pleased with me, speak to Pharaoh for me. Tell him," 
Genesis50:5 'My father made me take an oath and make a promise to him. He said, ""I'm about to die. Bury me in the tomb I dug for myself in the land of Canaan."" So let me go up and bury my father. Then I'll come back.' """ 
Genesis50:6 Pharaoh said, ""Go up and bury your father. Do what he made you promise to do.""" 
Genesis50:7 So Joseph went up to bury his father. All of Pharaoh's officials went with him. They were the important people of his court and all of the leaders of Egypt. 
Genesis50:8 All of Joseph's family also went. His brothers and all of the rest of his father's family went too. Only their children and their flocks and herds were left in Goshen. 
Genesis50:9 Chariots and horsemen also went up with him. It was a very large group. 
Genesis50:10 They came to the threshing floor of Atad. It was near the Jordan River. There they sobbed loudly and bitterly. Joseph set apart seven days of sadness to honor his father's memory. 
Genesis50:11 The people of Canaan who were living there saw how sad all of them were at the threshing floor of Atad. They said, ""The Egyptians are having a very special service for the dead."" That's why that place near the Jordan River is called Abel of the Egyptians." 
Genesis50:12 So Jacob's sons did exactly as he had commanded them. 
Genesis50:13 They carried his body to the land of Canaan. They buried it in the cave in the field of Machpelah near Mamre. Abraham had bought the cave as a place where he could bury his wife's body. He had bought it from Ephron the Hittite, along with the field." 
Genesis50:14 After Joseph buried his father, he went back to Egypt. His brothers and all of the others who had gone to help him bury his father went back with him." 
Genesis50:15 Now that their father was dead, Joseph's brothers were worried. They said, ""Remember all of the bad things we did to Joseph? What if he decides to hold those things against us? What if he pays us back for them?""" 
Genesis50:16 So they sent a message to Joseph. They said, ""Your father gave us directions before he died." 
Genesis50:17 He said, 'Here's what you must say to Joseph. Tell him, ""I'm asking you to forgive your brothers. Forgive the terrible things they did to you. Forgive them for treating you so badly."" ' Now then, please forgive our sins. We serve the God of your father."" When their message came to Joseph, he sobbed." 
Genesis50:18 Then his brothers came and threw themselves down in front of him. We are your slaves,"" they said." 
Genesis50:19 But Joseph said to them, ""Don't be afraid. Do you think I'm God?" 
Genesis50:20 You planned to harm me. But God planned it for good. He planned to do what is now being done. He wanted to save many lives. 
Genesis50:21 So then, don't be afraid. I'll provide for you and your children."" He set them free from their fears. And he spoke in a kind way to them." 
Genesis50:22 Joseph stayed in Egypt, along with all of his father's family. He lived 110 years." 
Genesis50:23 He lived long enough to see Ephraim's children and grandchildren. When the children of Makir were born, they were placed on Joseph's knees and counted as his own children. Makir was the son of Manasseh." 
Genesis50:24 Joseph said to his brothers, ""I'm about to die. But I'm sure that God will come to help you. He'll take you up out of this land. He'll bring you to the land he promised with an oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.""" 
Genesis50:25 Joseph made the sons of Israel take an oath and make a promise to him. He said, ""I'm sure that God will come to help you. Then you must carry my bones up from this place.""" 
Genesis50:26 So Joseph died at the age of 110. They prepared his body to be buried. Then he was placed in a casket in Egypt. 
Exodus1:1 Here are the names of Israel's children who went to Egypt with Jacob. Each one went with his family. 
Exodus1:2 Jacob's sons were Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah," 
Exodus1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, Benjamin," 
Exodus1:4 Dan, Naphtali, Gad and Asher." 
Exodus1:5 The total number of Jacob's children and grandchildren was 70. Joseph was already in Egypt. 
Exodus1:6 Joseph and all of his brothers died. So did all of their children. 
Exodus1:7 The people of Israel had many children. They greatly increased their numbers. There were so many of them that they filled the land. 
Exodus1:8 Then a new king came to power in Egypt. He didn't know anything about Joseph. 
Exodus1:9 Look,"" he said to his people. ""The Israelites are far too many for us." 
Exodus1:10 Come. We must deal with them carefully. If we don't, they will increase their numbers even more. Then if war breaks out, they'll join our enemies. They'll fight against us and leave the country.""" 
Exodus1:11 So the Egyptians put slave drivers over the people of Israel. The slave drivers beat them down and made them work hard. The Israelites built the cities of Pithom and Rameses so Pharaoh could store things there. 
Exodus1:12 But the more the slave drivers beat them down, the more the Israelites increased their numbers and spread out. So the Egyptians became afraid of them." 
Exodus1:13 They made them work hard. They didn't show them any pity. 
Exodus1:14 They made them suffer with hard labor. They forced them to work with bricks and mud. And they made them do all kinds of work in the fields. The Egyptians didn't show them any pity at all. They made them work very hard. 
Exodus1:15 There were two Hebrew women named Shiphrah and Puah. They helped other women who were having babies. The king of Egypt spoke to them. He said," 
Exodus1:16 You are the ones who help the other Hebrew women. Watch them when they get into a sitting position to have their babies. Kill the boys. Let the girls live. 
Exodus1:17 But Shiphrah and Puah had respect for God. They didn't do what the king of Egypt had told them to do. They let the boys live. 
Exodus1:18 Then the king of Egypt sent for the women. He asked them, ""Why have you done this? Why have you let the boys live?""" 
Exodus1:19 The women answered Pharaoh, ""Hebrew women are not like the women of Egypt. They are strong. They have their babies before we get there.""" 
Exodus1:20 So God was kind to Shiphrah and Puah. And the people of Israel increased their numbers more and more. 
Exodus1:21 Shiphrah and Puah had respect for God. So he gave them families of their own. 
Exodus1:22 Then Pharaoh gave an order to all of his people. He said, ""You must throw every baby boy into the Nile River. But let every baby girl live.""" 
Exodus2:1 A man and a woman from the tribe of Levi got married. 
Exodus2:2 She became pregnant and had a son by him. She saw that her baby was a fine child. So she hid him for three months. 
Exodus2:3 After that, she couldn't hide him any longer. So she got a basket that was made out of the stems of tall grass. She coated it with tar. Then she placed the child in it. She put the basket in the tall grass that grew along the bank of the Nile River." 
Exodus2:4 The child's sister wasn't very far away. She wanted to see what would happen to him. 
Exodus2:5 Pharaoh's daughter went down to the Nile River to take a bath. Her attendants were walking along the bank of the river. She saw the basket in the tall grass. So she sent her female slave to get it. 
Exodus2:6 When she opened it, she saw the baby. He was crying. She felt sorry for him. ""This is one of the Hebrew babies,"" she said." 
Exodus2:7 Then his sister spoke to Pharaoh's daughter. She asked, ""Do you want me to go and get one of the Hebrew women? She could nurse the baby for you.""" 
Exodus2:8 Yes. Go,"" she answered. So the girl went and got the baby's mother." 
Exodus2:9 Pharaoh's daughter said to her, ""Take this baby. Nurse him for me. I'll pay you."" So the woman took the baby and nursed him." 
Exodus2:10 When the child grew older, she took him to Pharaoh's daughter. And he became her son. She named him Moses. She said, ""I pulled him out of the water.""" 
Exodus2:11 Moses grew up. One day, he went out to where his own people were. He watched them while they were hard at work. He saw an Egyptian hitting a Hebrew man. The man was one of Moses' own people." 
Exodus2:12 Moses looked around and didn't see anyone. So he killed the Egyptian. Then he hid his body in the sand. 
Exodus2:13 The next day Moses went out again. He saw two Hebrew men fighting. He asked the one who had started the fight a question. He said, ""Why are you hitting another Hebrew man?""" 
Exodus2:14 The man said, ""Who made you ruler and judge over us? Are you thinking about killing me as you killed the Egyptian?"" Then Moses became afraid. He thought, ""People must have heard about what I did.""" 
Exodus2:15 When Pharaoh heard about what had happened, he tried to kill Moses. But Moses escaped from Pharaoh and went to live in Midian. There he sat down by a well." 
Exodus2:16 A priest of Midian had seven daughters. They came to fill the stone tubs with water. They wanted to give water to their father's flock. 
Exodus2:17 Some shepherds came along and drove the women away. But Moses got up and helped them. Then he gave water to their flock. 
Exodus2:18 The young women returned to their father Reuel. He asked them, ""Why have you returned so early today?""" 
Exodus2:19 They answered, ""An Egyptian saved us from the shepherds. He even got water for us and gave it to the flock.""" 
Exodus2:20 Where is he? he asked his daughters. Why did you leave him? Invite him to have something to eat. 
Exodus2:21 Moses agreed to stay with the man. And the man gave his daughter Zipporah to Moses to be his wife. 
Exodus2:22 Zipporah had a son by him. Moses named him Gershom. Moses said, ""I'm an outsider in a strange land.""" 
Exodus2:23 After a long time, the king of Egypt died. The people of Israel groaned because they were slaves. They also cried out to God. Their cry for help went up to him." 
Exodus2:24 God heard their groans. He remembered his covenant with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Exodus2:25 So God looked on the Israelites with favor. He was concerned about them. 
Exodus3:1 Moses was taking care of the flock of his father-in-law Jethro. Jethro was the priest of Midian. Moses led the flock to the western side of the desert. He came to Horeb. It was the mountain of God. 
Exodus3:2 There the angel of the Lord appeared to him from inside a burning bush. Moses saw that the bush was on fire. But it didn't burn up. 
Exodus3:3 So Moses thought, ""I'll go over and see this strange sight. Why doesn't the bush burn up?""" 
Exodus3:4 The Lord saw that Moses had gone over to look. So God spoke to him from inside the bush. He called out, ""Moses! Moses!"" ""Here I am,"" Moses said." 
Exodus3:5 Do not come any closer,"" God said. ""Take off your sandals. The place you are standing on is holy ground.""" 
Exodus3:6 He continued, ""I am the God of your father. I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob."" When Moses heard that, he turned his face away. He was afraid to look at God." 
Exodus3:7 The Lord said, ""I have seen my people suffer in Egypt. I have heard them cry out because of their slave drivers. I am concerned about their suffering." 
Exodus3:8 So I have come down to save them from the Egyptians. I will bring them up out of that land. I will bring them into a good land. It has a lot of room. It is a land that has plenty of milk and honey. It is the home of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Exodus3:9 And now Israel's cry for help has reached me. I have seen the way the Egyptians are beating them down. 
Exodus3:10 So now, go. I am sending you to Pharaoh. I want you to bring the Israelites out of Egypt. They are my people.""" 
Exodus3:11 But Moses spoke to God. Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? he said. Who am I that I should bring the Israelites out of Egypt? 
Exodus3:12 God said, ""I will be with you. I will give you a miraculous sign. It will prove that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, all of you will worship me on this mountain.""" 
Exodus3:13 Moses said to God, ""Suppose I go to the people of Israel. Suppose I say to them, 'The God of your fathers has sent me to you.' Suppose they ask me, 'What is his name?' Then what should I tell them?""" 
Exodus3:14 God said to Moses, ""I am who I am. Here is what you must say to the Israelites. Tell them, 'I am has sent me to you.' """ 
Exodus3:15 God also said to Moses, ""Say to the Israelites, 'The Lord is the God of your fathers. He has sent me to you. He is the God of Abraham. He is the God of Isaac. And he is the God of Jacob.' My name will always be The Lord. Remember me by that name for all time to come." 
Exodus3:16 Go. Gather the elders of Israel together. Say to them, 'The Lord, the God of your fathers, appeared to me. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. "" 'He said, ""I have watched over you. I have seen what the Egyptians have done to you." 
Exodus3:17 I have promised to bring you up out of Egypt where you are suffering. I will bring you into the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. It is a land that has plenty of milk and honey."" '" 
Exodus3:18 The elders of Israel will listen to you. Then you and the elders must go to the king of Egypt. You must say to him, 'The Lord has met with us. He is the God of the Hebrews. Let us take a journey that lasts about three days. We want to go into the desert to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God.'" 
Exodus3:19 But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you and your people go. Only a mighty hand could make him do that. 
Exodus3:20 So I will reach my hand out. I will strike the Egyptians with all kinds of miracles. After that, he will let you go." 
Exodus3:21 I will cause the Egyptians to treat you in a kind way. Then when you leave, you will not go out with your hands empty." 
Exodus3:22 Every woman should ask her neighbor and any woman living in her house for articles made out of silver and gold. Ask them for clothes too. Put them on your children. In that way, you will take the wealth of Egypt along with you.""" 
Exodus4:1 Moses answered, ""What if the elders of Israel won't believe me? What if they won't listen to me? Suppose they say, 'The Lord didn't appear to you.' Then what should I do?""" 
Exodus4:2 The Lord said to him, ""What do you have in your hand?"" ""A wooden staff,"" he said." 
Exodus4:3 The Lord said, ""Throw it on the ground."" So Moses threw it on the ground. It turned into a snake. He ran away from it." 
Exodus4:4 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""Reach your hand out. Take the snake by the tail."" So he reached out and grabbed hold of the snake. It turned back into a staff in his hand." 
Exodus4:5 The Lord said, ""When they see this miraculous sign, they will believe that I appeared to you. I am the God of their fathers. I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.""" 
Exodus4:6 Then the Lord said, ""Put your hand inside your coat."" So Moses put his hand inside his coat. When he took it out, it was as white as snow. It was covered with a skin disease." 
Exodus4:7 Now put it back into your coat,"" the Lord said. So Moses put his hand back into his coat. When he took it out, the skin was healthy again. His hand was like the rest of his skin." 
Exodus4:8 Then the Lord said, ""Suppose they do not believe you or pay attention to the first miracle. Then maybe they will believe the second one." 
Exodus4:9 But suppose they do not believe either miracle. Suppose they will not listen to you. Then get some water from the Nile River. Pour it on the dry ground. The water you take from the river will turn to blood on the ground. 
Exodus4:10 Moses spoke to the Lord. He said, ""Lord, I've never been a good speaker. And I haven't gotten any better since you spoke to me. I don't speak very well at all.""" 
Exodus4:11 The Lord said to him, ""Who makes a man able to talk? Who makes him unable to hear or speak? Who makes him able to see? Who makes him blind? It is I, the Lord." 
Exodus4:12 Now go. I will help you speak. I will teach you what to say. 
Exodus4:13 But Moses said, ""Lord, please send someone else to do it.""" 
Exodus4:14 Then the Lord's anger burned against Moses. He said, ""What about your brother, Aaron the Levite? I know he can speak well. He is already on his way to meet you. He will be glad to see you." 
Exodus4:15 Speak to him. Put your words in his mouth. Tell him what to say. I will help both of you speak. I will teach you what to do. 
Exodus4:16 He will speak to the people for you. He will be like your mouth. And you will be like God to him. 
Exodus4:17 But take this wooden staff in your hand. You will be able to do miraculous signs with it. 
Exodus4:18 Then Moses went back to his father-in-law Jethro. He said to him, ""Let me go back to my own people in Egypt. I want to see if any of them are still alive."" Jethro said, ""Go. I hope everything goes well with you.""" 
Exodus4:19 The Lord had said to Moses in Midian, ""Go back to Egypt. All of the men who wanted to kill you are dead.""" 
Exodus4:20 So Moses got his wife and sons. He put them on a donkey. Together they started back to Egypt. And he took the wooden staff in his hand. It was the staff God would use in a powerful way. 
Exodus4:21 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""When you return to Egypt, do all of the miracles I have given you the power to do. Do them in the sight of Pharaoh. But I will make his heart stubborn. He will not let the people go." 
Exodus4:22 Then say to Pharaoh, 'The Lord says, ""Israel is like an oldest son to me." 
Exodus4:23 I told you, 'Let my son go. Then he will be able to worship me.' But you refused to let him go. So I will kill your oldest son."" ' """ 
Exodus4:24 On the way to Egypt, Moses stopped for the night. There the Lord met him and was about to kill him." 
Exodus4:25 But Zipporah got a knife that was made out of hard stone. She circumcised her son with it. Then she touched Moses' feet with the skin she had cut off. You are a husband who has forced me to spill my son's blood,"" she said." 
Exodus4:26 So the Lord didn't kill Moses. When she said husband who has forced me to spill my son's blood,"" she was talking about circumcision." 
Exodus4:27 The Lord said to Aaron, ""Go into the desert to see Moses."" So he greeted Moses at the mountain of God and kissed him." 
Exodus4:28 Then Moses told Aaron everything the Lord had sent him to say. He also told him about all of the miraculous signs he had commanded him to do. 
Exodus4:29 Moses and Aaron gathered all of the elders of Israel together. 
Exodus4:30 Aaron told them everything the Lord had said to Moses. He also did the miracles in the sight of the people. 
Exodus4:31 And they believed. They heard that the Lord was concerned about them. He had seen their suffering. So they bowed down and worshiped him. 
Exodus5:1 Later on, Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh. They said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'Let my people go. Then they will be able to hold a feast in my honor in the desert.' """ 
Exodus5:2 Pharaoh said, ""Who is the Lord? Why should I obey him? Why should I let Israel go? I don't even know the Lord. And I won't let Israel go.""" 
Exodus5:3 Then Moses and Aaron said, ""The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Now let us take a journey that lasts about three days. We want to go into the desert to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God. If we don't, he might strike us with plagues. Or he might let us be killed with swords.""" 
Exodus5:4 But the king of Egypt said, ""Moses and Aaron, why are you taking the people away from their work? Get back to work!""" 
Exodus5:5 Pharaoh continued, ""There are large numbers of your people in the land. But you are stopping them from working.""" 
Exodus5:6 That same day Pharaoh gave orders to the slave drivers and the others who were in charge of the people. 
Exodus5:7 He said, ""Don't give the people any more straw to make bricks. Let them go and get their own straw." 
Exodus5:8 But require them to make the same number of bricks as before. Don't lower the number they have to make. They don't want to work. That's why they are crying out, 'Let us go. We want to offer sacrifices to our God.'" 
Exodus5:9 Make them work harder. Then they will be too busy to pay attention to lies. 
Exodus5:10 The slave drivers and the others who were in charge left. They said to the people, ""Pharaoh says, 'I won't give you any more straw." 
Exodus5:11 Go and get your own straw anywhere you can find it. But you still have to make the same number of bricks.' 
Exodus5:12 So the people scattered all over Egypt. They went to gather any pieces of straw that were left in the fields. 
Exodus5:13 The slave drivers kept making the people work hard. They said, ""Finish the work you are required to do each day. Make the same number of bricks you made when you had straw.""" 
Exodus5:14 They whipped the Israelites who were in charge of the people. Those Israelites had been appointed by Pharaoh's slave drivers. The slave drivers asked, ""Why didn't you make the same number of bricks yesterday or today, just as before?""" 
Exodus5:15 Then the Israelites who were in charge of the people made their appeal to Pharaoh. They asked, ""Why have you treated us like this?" 
Exodus5:16 You didn't give us any straw. But you told us, 'Make bricks!' We are being whipped. But it's the fault of your own people.""" 
Exodus5:17 Pharaoh said, ""You just don't want to work! That's why you keep saying, 'Let us go. We want to offer sacrifices to the Lord.'" 
Exodus5:18 Now get to work. We won't give you any straw. But you still have to make the same number of bricks. 
Exodus5:19 The Israelites who were in charge of the people realized they were in trouble. They knew it when they were told, ""Don't lower the number of bricks you are required to make each day.""" 
Exodus5:20 When they left Pharaoh, they found Moses and Aaron waiting to meet them." 
Exodus5:21 They said to Moses and Aaron, ""We want the Lord to look at what you have done! We want him to judge you for it! We are like a very bad smell to Pharaoh and his officials. You have given them an excuse to kill us with their swords.""" 
Exodus5:22 Moses returned to the Lord. He said to him, ""Lord, why have you brought trouble on these people? Is this why you sent me?" 
Exodus5:23 I went to Pharaoh to speak to him in your name. Ever since then, he has brought nothing but trouble on these people. And you haven't saved your people at all.""" 
Exodus6:1 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh. Because of my powerful hand, he will let the people of Israel go. Because of my mighty hand, he will drive them out of his country.""" 
Exodus6:2 God continued, ""I am the Lord." 
Exodus6:3 I appeared to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob as the Mighty God. But I did not show them the full meaning of my name, The Lord." 
Exodus6:4 I also made my covenant with them. I promised to give them the land of Canaan. That is where they lived as outsiders. 
Exodus6:5 Also, I have heard the groans of the Israelites. The Egyptians are keeping them as slaves. But I have remembered my covenant." 
Exodus6:6 So tell the people of Israel, 'I am the Lord. I will throw off the heavy load the Egyptians have put on your shoulders. I will set you free from being slaves to them. I will reach out my arm and save you with mighty acts when I judge Egypt." 
Exodus6:7  'I will take you to be my own people. I will be your God. You will know that I am the Lord your God when I throw off the load the Egyptians have put on your shoulders. 
Exodus6:8  'I will bring you to the land I promised with an oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I lifted up my hand and promised it to them. The land will belong to you. I am the Lord.' """ 
Exodus6:9 Moses reported those things to the Israelites. But they didn't listen to him. That's because they had lost all hope and had to work very hard. 
Exodus6:10 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus6:11 Go. Tell Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to let the people of Israel leave his country.""" 
Exodus6:12 But Moses spoke to the Lord. The people won't listen to me,"" he said. ""So why would Pharaoh listen to me? After all, I don't speak very well.""" 
Exodus6:13 The Lord had spoken to Moses and Aaron. He had talked with them about the Israelites and about Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He had commanded Moses and Aaron to bring the people of Israel out of Egypt." 
Exodus6:14 Here were the leaders of the family groups of Reuben, Simeon and Levi. Reuben was the oldest son of Israel. His sons were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. Those were the family groups of Reuben." 
Exodus6:15 The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar and Shaul. Shaul was the son of a woman from Canaan. Those were the family groups of Simeon." 
Exodus6:16 Here were the names of the sons of Levi that were recorded in their family history. They were Gershon, Kohath and Merari. Levi lived for 137 years." 
Exodus6:17 The sons of Gershon, by their family groups, were Libni and Shimei." 
Exodus6:18 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. Kohath lived for 133 years." 
Exodus6:19 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. Those were the family groups of Levi that were recorded in their family history. 
Exodus6:20 Amram got married to his father's sister Jochebed. Aaron and Moses were born in Amram's family line. Amram lived for 137 years. 
Exodus6:21 The sons of Izhar were Korah, Nepheg and Zicri." 
Exodus6:22 The sons of Uzziel were Mishael, Elzaphan and Sithri." 
Exodus6:23 Aaron married Elisheba. She was the daughter of Amminadab and the sister of Nahshon. She had Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar by Aaron." 
Exodus6:24 The sons of Korah were Assir, Elkanah and Abiasaph. Those were the family groups of Korah." 
Exodus6:25 Eleazar, the son of Aaron, married one of the daughters of Putiel. She had Phinehas by Eleazar. Those were the leaders of the families of Levi that were recorded by their groups." 
Exodus6:26 The Lord had spoken to that same Aaron and Moses. He had told them, ""Bring the Israelites out of Egypt like an army on the march.""" 
Exodus6:27 They spoke to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, about bringing the people of Israel out of Egypt. They were that same Moses and Aaron." 
Exodus6:28 The Lord had spoken to Moses in Egypt. 
Exodus6:29 He had told him, ""I am the Lord. Tell Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, everything I tell you.""" 
Exodus6:30 But Moses said to the Lord, ""I don't speak very well. So why would Pharaoh listen to me?""" 
Exodus7:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""I have made you like God to Pharaoh. And your brother Aaron will be like a prophet to you." 
Exodus7:2 You must say everything I command you to say. Then your brother Aaron must tell Pharaoh to let the people of Israel leave his country. 
Exodus7:3 But I will make Pharaoh's heart stubborn. I will multiply my miraculous signs and wonders in Egypt. 
Exodus7:4 In spite of that, he will not listen to you. So I will use my powerful hand against Egypt. When I judge them with mighty acts, I will bring my people Israel out like an army on the march." 
Exodus7:5 Then the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord. I will reach out my powerful hand against Egypt. I will bring the people of Israel out of it. 
Exodus7:6 Moses and Aaron did exactly as the Lord had commanded them. 
Exodus7:7 Moses was 80 years old and Aaron was 83 when they spoke to Pharaoh. 
Exodus7:8 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus7:9 He said, ""Pharaoh will say to you, 'Do a miracle.' When he does, speak to Aaron. Tell him, 'Take your wooden staff and throw it down in front of Pharaoh.' It will turn into a snake.""" 
Exodus7:10 So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh. They did exactly as the Lord had commanded them. Aaron threw his staff down in front of Pharaoh and his officials. It turned into a snake. 
Exodus7:11 Then Pharaoh sent for wise men and those who do evil magic. By doing their magic tricks, the Egyptian magicians did the same things Aaron had done." 
Exodus7:12 Each one threw his staff down. Each staff turned into a snake. But Aaron's staff swallowed theirs up. 
Exodus7:13 In spite of that, Pharaoh's heart became stubborn. He wouldn't listen to them, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus7:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""Pharaoh's heart is very stubborn. He refuses to let the people go." 
Exodus7:15 In the morning Pharaoh will go down to the water. Go and wait on the bank of the Nile River to meet him. Take in your hand the wooden staff that turned into a snake. 
Exodus7:16 Say to Pharaoh, 'The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you. He says, ""Let my people go. Then they will be able to worship me in the desert. But up to now you have not listened.""" 
Exodus7:17  'The Lord says, ""Here is how you will know that I am the Lord. I will strike the water of the Nile River with the staff that is in my hand. The river will turn into blood." 
Exodus7:18 The fish in the river will die. The river will stink. The Egyptians will not be able to drink its water. ' 
Exodus7:19 The Lord said to Moses, ""Tell Aaron, 'Get your staff. Reach your hand out over the waters of Egypt. The streams, waterways, ponds and all of the lakes will turn into blood. There will be blood everywhere in Egypt. It will even be in the wooden buckets and stone jars.' """ 
Exodus7:20 Moses and Aaron did exactly as the Lord had commanded them. Aaron held out his staff in front of Pharaoh and his officials. He struck the water of the Nile River. And all of the water turned into blood. 
Exodus7:21 The fish in the Nile died. The river smelled so bad the Egyptians couldn't drink its water. There was blood everywhere in Egypt. 
Exodus7:22 But the Egyptian magicians did the same things by doing their magic tricks. So Pharaoh's heart became stubborn. He wouldn't listen to Moses and Aaron, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus7:23 Even that miracle didn't change Pharaoh's mind. In fact, he turned around and went into his palace." 
Exodus7:24 All of the Egyptians dug holes near the Nile River to get drinking water. They couldn't drink water from the river. 
Exodus7:25 Seven days passed after the Lord struck the Nile River. 
Exodus8:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""Go to Pharaoh. Tell him, 'The Lord says, ""Let my people go. Then they will be able to worship me." 
Exodus8:2  ' If you refuse to let them go, I will plague your whole country with frogs." 
Exodus8:3 The Nile River will be full of frogs. They will come up into your palace. You will have frogs in your bedroom and on your bed. They will be in the homes of your officials and your people. They will be in your ovens and in your bread pans. 
Exodus8:4 The frogs will be on you, your people and all of your officials."" ' """ 
Exodus8:5 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Tell Aaron, 'Reach your hand out. Hold your staff over the streams, waterways and ponds. Make frogs come up on the land of Egypt.' """ 
Exodus8:6 So Aaron reached his hand out over the waters of Egypt. The frogs came up and covered the land. 
Exodus8:7 But the magicians did the same things by doing their magic tricks. They also made frogs come up on the land of Egypt. 
Exodus8:8 Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron. He said to them, ""Pray to the Lord to take the frogs away from me and my people. Then I'll let your people go to offer sacrifices to the Lord.""" 
Exodus8:9 Moses said to Pharaoh, ""You can have the honor of setting the time for me to pray. I will pray for you, your officials and your people. I'll pray that the frogs will leave you and your homes. The only frogs left will be the ones in the Nile River.""" 
Exodus8:10 Tomorrow,"" Pharaoh said. Moses replied, ""It will happen just as you say. Then you will know that there is no one like the Lord our God." 
Exodus8:11 The frogs will leave you and your houses. They will leave your officials and your people. They will remain only in the Nile River. 
Exodus8:12 Moses and Aaron left Pharaoh. Then Moses cried out to the Lord about the frogs he had brought on Pharaoh. 
Exodus8:13 And the Lord did what Moses asked. The frogs died in the houses, courtyards and fields." 
Exodus8:14 The Egyptians piled them up. The land smelled very bad because of them. 
Exodus8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that the frogs were dead, his heart became stubborn. He wouldn't listen to Moses and Aaron, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus8:16 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Tell Aaron, 'Reach your wooden staff out. Strike the dust on the ground with it.' Then all over the land of Egypt the dust will turn into gnats.""" 
Exodus8:17 So they did it. Aaron reached out the staff that was in his hand. He struck the dust on the ground with it. The dust all over the land of Egypt turned into gnats. They landed on people and animals alike. 
Exodus8:18 The magicians tried to produce gnats by doing their magic tricks. But they couldn't. The gnats stayed on people and animals alike. 
Exodus8:19 The magicians said to Pharaoh, ""God's powerful finger has done this."" But Pharaoh's heart was stubborn. He wouldn't listen, just as the Lord had said." 
Exodus8:20 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Get up early in the morning. Talk to Pharaoh as he goes down to the river. Say to him, 'The Lord says, ""Let my people go. Then they will be able to worship me." 
Exodus8:21 If you do not let my people go, I will send large numbers of flies. I will send them on you and your officials. I will send them on your people and into your homes. The houses of the Egyptians will be full of flies. Even the area where they live will be full of flies." 
Exodus8:22  ' But on that day I will treat the area of Goshen differently from yours. That is where my people live. There will not be large numbers of flies in Goshen. Then you will know that I, the Lord, am in this land." 
Exodus8:23 I will treat my people differently from yours. The miraculous sign will take place tomorrow. ' 
Exodus8:24 So the Lord did it. Huge numbers of flies poured into Pharaoh's palace. They came into the homes of his officials. All over Egypt the flies destroyed the land. 
Exodus8:25 Then Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron. He said to them, ""Go. Offer sacrifices to your God here in the land.""" 
Exodus8:26 But Moses said, ""That wouldn't be right. The sacrifices we offer to the Lord our God wouldn't be accepted by the Egyptians because of their beliefs. Suppose we offered sacrifices they couldn't accept. Then they would throw stones at us and try to kill us." 
Exodus8:27 We have to take a journey that lasts about three days. We want to go into the desert to offer sacrifices to the Lord our God, exactly as he commands us.""" 
Exodus8:28 Pharaoh said, ""I will let you and your people go to offer sacrifices. You can offer them to the Lord your God in the desert. But you must not go very far. And pray for me.""" 
Exodus8:29 Moses replied, ""As soon as I leave you, I will pray to the Lord. Tomorrow the flies will leave you. They will also leave your officials and your people. Just be sure you don't try to trick us again. Let the people go to offer sacrifices to the Lord.""" 
Exodus8:30 Then Moses left Pharaoh and prayed to the Lord. 
Exodus8:31 And the Lord did what Moses asked. The flies left Pharaoh, his officials and his people. Not one fly remained." 
Exodus8:32 But Pharaoh's heart became stubborn that time also. He wouldn't let the people go. 
Exodus9:1 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Go to Pharaoh. Tell him, 'The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, says, ""Let my people go. Then they will be able to worship me." 
Exodus9:2 Do not refuse to let them go. Do not keep holding them back. 
Exodus9:3  ' If you refuse, my powerful hand will bring a terrible plague on you. I will strike your livestock in the fields. I will strike your horses, donkeys, camels, cattle, sheep and goats." 
Exodus9:4 But I will treat Israel's livestock differently from yours. No animal that belongs to the people of Israel will die. ' 
Exodus9:5 The Lord set a time for the plague. He said, ""Tomorrow I will send it on the land.""" 
Exodus9:6 So the next day the Lord sent it. All of the livestock of the Egyptians died. But not one animal that belonged to the Israelites died. 
Exodus9:7 Pharaoh sent people to find out what had happened. They discovered that not even one animal that belonged to the Israelites had died. But his heart was still very stubborn. He wouldn't let the people go. 
Exodus9:8 Then the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said, ""Take handfuls of ashes from a furnace. Have Moses toss them into the air in front of Pharaoh." 
Exodus9:9 The ashes will turn into fine dust all over the whole land of Egypt. Then boils will break out on people and animals all over the land. Their bodies will be covered with them. 
Exodus9:10 So Moses and Aaron took ashes from a furnace and stood in front of Pharaoh. Moses tossed them into the air. Then boils broke out on people and animals alike. 
Exodus9:11 The bodies of all of the Egyptians were covered with boils. The magicians couldn't stand in front of Moses because of the boils that were all over them. 
Exodus9:12 But the Lord made Pharaoh's heart stubborn. Pharaoh wouldn't listen to Moses and Aaron, just as the Lord had said to Moses." 
Exodus9:13 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Get up early in the morning. Go to Pharaoh and say to him, 'The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, says, ""Let my people go. Then they will be able to worship me." 
Exodus9:14  ' If you do not let them go, I will send the full force of my plagues against you this time. They will strike your officials and your people. Then you will know that there is no one like me in the whole earth." 
Exodus9:15  ' By now I could have reached out my hand. I could have struck you and your people with a plague that would have wiped you off the earth. 
Exodus9:16 But I had a special reason for making you king. I decided to show you my power. I wanted my name to become known everywhere on earth. 
Exodus9:17  ' But you are still against my people. You will not let them go. 
Exodus9:18 So at this time tomorrow I will send the worst hailstorm ever to fall on Egypt in its entire history. 
Exodus9:19  ' Give an order now to bring your livestock inside to a safe place. Bring in everything that is outside. The hail will fall on all of the people and animals that are left outside. They will die. ' 
Exodus9:20 The officials of Pharaoh who had respect for what the Lord had said obeyed him. They hurried to bring their slaves and their livestock inside. 
Exodus9:21 But others didn't pay attention to what the Lord had said. They left their slaves and livestock outside. 
Exodus9:22 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Reach your hand out toward the sky. Then hail will fall all over Egypt. It will beat down on people and animals alike. It will strike everything that is growing in the fields of Egypt.""" 
Exodus9:23 Moses reached his wooden staff out toward the sky. Then the Lord sent thunder and hail. Lightning flashed down to the ground. The Lord rained hail on the land of Egypt. 
Exodus9:24 Hail fell and lightning flashed back and forth. It was the worst storm in Egypt's entire history. 
Exodus9:25 All over Egypt hail struck everything in the fields. It fell on people and animals alike. It beat down everything that was growing in the fields. It tore all of the leaves off the trees. 
Exodus9:26 The only place it didn't hail was in the area of Goshen. That's where the people of Israel were. 
Exodus9:27 Then Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron. This time I've sinned,"" he said to them. ""The Lord has done what is right. I and my people have done what is wrong." 
Exodus9:28 Pray to the Lord, because we've had enough thunder and hail. I'll let you and your people go. You don't have to stay here any longer.""" 
Exodus9:29 Moses replied, ""When I've left the city, I'll lift up my hands and pray to the Lord. The thunder will stop. There won't be any more hail. Then you will know that the earth belongs to the Lord." 
Exodus9:30 But I know that you and your officials still don't have any respect for the Lord God. 
Exodus9:31 The barley was ripe. The flax was blooming. So they were both destroyed. 
Exodus9:32 But the wheat and spelt weren't destroyed. That's because they ripen later. 
Exodus9:33 Then Moses left Pharaoh and went out of the city. He lifted up his hands and prayed to the Lord. The thunder and hail stopped. The rain didn't pour down on the land any longer. 
Exodus9:34 Pharaoh saw that the rain, hail and thunder had stopped. So he sinned again. He and his officials made their hearts stubborn." 
Exodus9:35 So Pharaoh's heart was stubborn. He wouldn't let the people of Israel go, just as the Lord had said through Moses." 
Exodus10:1 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""Go to Pharaoh. I have made his heart stubborn. I have also made the hearts of his officials stubborn so I can do my miraculous signs among them." 
Exodus10:2 Then you will be able to tell your children and grandchildren how hard I was on the Egyptians. You can tell them I did great miracles among the people of Egypt. And all of you will know that I am the Lord. 
Exodus10:3 So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh. They said to him, ""The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, says, 'How long will you refuse to obey me? Let my people go. Then they will be able to worship me." 
Exodus10:4  'If you refuse to let them go, I will bring locusts into your country tomorrow." 
Exodus10:5 They will cover the ground so that it can't be seen. They will eat what little you have left after the hail. That includes every tree that is growing in your fields. 
Exodus10:6 They will fill your houses. They will be in the homes of all of your officials and your people. Your parents and your people before them have never seen anything like it as long as they have lived here.'  Then Moses turned around and left Pharaoh. 
Exodus10:7 Pharaoh's officials said to him, ""How long will this man be a trap for us? Let the people go. Then they'll be able to worship the Lord their God. After everything that's happened, don't you realize that Egypt is destroyed?""" 
Exodus10:8 Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh. Go. Worship the Lord your God,"" he said. ""But just who will be going?""" 
Exodus10:9 Moses answered, ""We'll go with our young people and old people. We'll go with our sons and daughters. We'll take our flocks and herds. We are supposed to hold a feast in the Lord's honor.""" 
Exodus10:10 Pharaoh said, ""The Lord will really be with all of you if I ever let you go, along with your women and children! Clearly you are planning to do something bad." 
Exodus10:11 No! I'll only allow the men to go. Then all of you can worship the Lord. After all, that's what you have been asking for."" Then Pharaoh drove Moses and Aaron out of his sight." 
Exodus10:12 The Lord said to Moses, ""Reach out your hand over Egypt. Locusts will cover the land. They will eat up everything that is growing in the fields. They will eat up everything that was left by the hail.""" 
Exodus10:13 So Moses reached his wooden staff out over Egypt. Then the Lord made an east wind blow across the land. It blew all that day and all that night. By morning the wind had brought the locusts. 
Exodus10:14 They came into every part of Egypt. They settled down in every area of the country in large numbers. There had never been a plague of locusts like it before. And there will never be one like it again. 
Exodus10:15 The locusts covered the ground until it was black. They ate up everything that was left after the hail. They ate up everything that was growing in the fields. They ate up the fruit on the trees. There was nothing green left on any tree or plant in the whole land of Egypt. 
Exodus10:16 Pharaoh quickly sent for Moses and Aaron. He said, ""I have sinned against the Lord your God. I've also sinned against you." 
Exodus10:17 Now forgive my sin one more time. Pray to the Lord your God to take this deadly plague away from me. 
Exodus10:18 After Moses left Pharaoh, he prayed to the Lord." 
Exodus10:19 The Lord changed the wind to a very strong west wind. The wind picked up the locusts. It blew them into the Red Sea. Not even one locust was left anywhere in Egypt. 
Exodus10:20 But the Lord made Pharaoh's heart stubborn. And Pharaoh wouldn't let the people of Israel go. 
Exodus10:21 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Reach out your hand toward the sky. Darkness will spread over Egypt. It will be so dark that people can feel it.""" 
Exodus10:22 So Moses reached out his hand toward the sky. Then complete darkness covered Egypt for three days. 
Exodus10:23 No one could see anyone else or go anywhere for three days. But all of the people of Israel had light where they lived. 
Exodus10:24 Then Pharaoh sent for Moses. He said to him, ""Go. Worship the Lord. Even your women and children can go with you. Just leave your flocks and herds behind.""" 
Exodus10:25 But Moses said, ""You must allow us to take animals to offer as sacrifices and burnt offerings to the Lord our God." 
Exodus10:26 Our livestock must also go with us. We have to use some of them to worship the Lord our God. We can't leave even one animal behind. Until we get there, we won't know what we are supposed to use to worship the Lord.""" 
Exodus10:27 But the Lord made Pharaoh's heart stubborn. So he wouldn't let the people go. 
Exodus10:28 Pharaoh said to Moses, ""Get out of my sight! Make sure you don't come to see me again! If you do, you will die.""" 
Exodus10:29 I'll do just as you say,"" Moses replied. ""I will never come to see you again.""" 
Exodus11:1 The Lord had spoken to Moses. He had said, ""I will bring one more plague on Pharaoh and on Egypt. After that, he will let you and your people go. When he does, he will drive you completely away." 
Exodus11:2 Tell the men and women alike to ask their neighbors for articles made out of silver and gold. 
Exodus11:3 The Lord caused the Egyptians to treat the Israelites in a kind way. Pharaoh's officials and the people had great respect for Moses. 
Exodus11:4 Moses said, ""The Lord says, 'About midnight I will go through every part of Egypt." 
Exodus11:5 Every oldest son in Egypt will die. The oldest son of Pharaoh, who sits on the throne, will die. The oldest son of the female slave, who works at her hand mill, will die. All of the male animals that were born first to their mothers among the cattle will also die." 
Exodus11:6 There will be loud crying all over Egypt. It will be worse than it's ever been before. And nothing like it will ever be heard again. 
Exodus11:7  'But among the people of Israel not even one dog will bark at any man or animal.' Then you will know that the Lord treats Egypt differently from us. 
Exodus11:8 All of your officials will come and bow down to me. They will say, 'Go, you and all of the people who follow you!' After that, I will leave."" Moses burned with anger when he left Pharaoh." 
Exodus11:9 The Lord had spoken to Moses. He had said, ""Pharaoh will refuse to listen to you. So I will multiply my miracles in Egypt.""" 
Exodus11:10 Moses and Aaron did all of those miracles in the sight of Pharaoh. But the Lord made Pharaoh's heart stubborn. He wouldn't let the people of Israel go out of his country. 
Exodus12:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron in Egypt. 
Exodus12:2 He said, ""From now on, this month will be your first month. Each of your years will begin with it." 
Exodus12:3 Speak to the whole community of Israel. Tell them that on the tenth day of this month each man must get a lamb from his flock. A lamb should be chosen for each family and home. 
Exodus12:4 Suppose there are not enough people in your family to eat a whole lamb. Then you must share some of it with your nearest neighbor. You must add up the total number of people there are. You must decide how much lamb is needed for each person. 
Exodus12:5 The animals you choose must be males that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. You may choose either sheep or goats. 
Exodus12:6 Take care of them until the 14th day of the month. Then the whole community of Israel must kill them when the sun goes down. 
Exodus12:7 Take some of the blood. Put it on the sides and tops of the doorframes of the houses where you eat the lambs. 
Exodus12:8 That same night eat the meat cooked over the fire. Also eat bitter plants. And eat bread that is made without yeast. 
Exodus12:9 Do not eat the meat raw or boiled in water. Instead, cook it over the fire. Cook the head, legs and inside parts." 
Exodus12:10 Do not leave any of it until morning. If some is left over until morning, burn it." 
Exodus12:11 Eat the meat while your coat is tucked into your belt. Put your sandals on your feet. Take your walking stick in your hand. Eat the food quickly. It is the Lord's Passover. 
Exodus12:12 That same night I will pass through Egypt. I will strike down every oldest son. I will also kill all of the male animals that were born first to their mothers. And I will judge all of the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord. 
Exodus12:13 The blood on your houses will be a sign for you. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. No deadly plague will touch you when I strike Egypt." 
Exodus12:14 Always remember this day. For all time to come, you and your children after you must celebrate this day as a feast in honor of the Lord. It is a law that will last forever." 
Exodus12:15 Eat bread made without yeast for seven days. On the first day remove the yeast from your homes. For the next seven days, anyone who eats anything that has yeast in it must be cut off from Israel." 
Exodus12:16 On the first and seventh days, come together for a special service. Do not work at all on those days. All you are allowed to do is prepare food for everyone to eat." 
Exodus12:17 Celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread. I brought you out of Egypt on this very day like an army on the march. It is a law that will last for all time to come. 
Exodus12:18 In the first month eat bread that is made without yeast. Eat it from the evening of the 14th day until the evening of the 21st day. 
Exodus12:19 For seven days do not let any yeast be found in your homes. Anyone who eats anything that has yeast in it must be cut off from the community of Israel. That applies to outsiders and Israelites alike. 
Exodus12:20 Do not eat anything that is made with yeast. No matter where you live, eat bread that is made without yeast.""" 
Exodus12:21 Then Moses sent for all of the elders of Israel. He said to them, ""Go at once. Choose the animals for your families. Each family must kill a Passover lamb." 
Exodus12:22 Get a branch of a hyssop plant. Dip it into the blood in the bowl. Put some of the blood on the top and on both sides of the doorframe. None of you can go out the door of your house until morning. 
Exodus12:23 The Lord will go through the land to strike the Egyptians down. He'll see the blood on the top and sides of the doorframe. He will pass over that house. He won't let the destroying angel enter your homes to kill you. 
Exodus12:24 Obey all of these directions. It's a law for you and your children after you for all time to come. 
Exodus12:25 The Lord will give you the land, just as he promised. When you enter it, keep this holy day." 
Exodus12:26 Your children will ask you, 'What does this holy day mean to you?'" 
Exodus12:27 Tell them, 'It's the Passover sacrifice in honor of the Lord. He passed over the houses of the people of Israel in Egypt. He spared our homes when he struck the Egyptians down.' "" Then the people of Israel bowed down and worshiped." 
Exodus12:28 They did just what the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus12:29 At midnight the Lord struck down every oldest son in Egypt. He killed the oldest son of Pharaoh, who sat on the throne. He killed all of the oldest sons of prisoners, who were in prison. He also killed all of the male animals that were born first to their mothers among the livestock." 
Exodus12:30 Pharaoh and all of his officials got up during the night. So did all of the Egyptians. There was loud crying in Egypt because someone had died in every home. 
Exodus12:31 During the night, Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron. He said to them, ""Get out of here! You and the Israelites, leave my people! Go. Worship the Lord, just as you have asked." 
Exodus12:32 Go. Take your flocks and herds, just as you have said. And also give me your blessing.""" 
Exodus12:33 The Egyptians begged the people of Israel to hurry up and leave the country. If you don't,"" they said, ""we'll all die!""" 
Exodus12:34 So the people took their dough before the yeast was added to it. They carried it on their shoulders in bread pans that were wrapped in clothes. 
Exodus12:35 They did just as Moses had directed them. They asked the Egyptians for articles that were made out of silver and gold. They also asked them for clothes. 
Exodus12:36 The Lord had caused the Egyptians to treat the people of Israel in a kind way. So they gave them what they asked for. The people of Israel took many expensive things that belonged to the Egyptians. 
Exodus12:37 The Israelites traveled from Rameses to Succoth. There were about 600,000 men who were old enough to go into battle. The women and children went with them." 
Exodus12:38 So did many other people. The Israelites also took large flocks and herds with them. 
Exodus12:39 They brought dough from Egypt. With it they baked bread without yeast. The dough didn't have any yeast in it. That's because the people had been driven out of Egypt before they had time to prepare their food. 
Exodus12:40 The people of Israel lived in Egypt for 430 years. 
Exodus12:41 At the end of the 430 years, to the very day, all of the Lord's people marched out of Egypt like an army." 
Exodus12:42 The Lord kept watch that night to bring them out of Egypt. So on that same night every year all of the Israelites must keep watch. They must do it to honor the Lord for all time to come. 
Exodus12:43 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said, ""Here are the rules for the Passover. ""No one from another country is allowed to eat the Passover meal." 
Exodus12:44 Any slave you have bought is allowed to eat it after you have circumcised him. 
Exodus12:45 But a hired worker or someone who lives with you for a while is not allowed to eat it. 
Exodus12:46 It must be eaten inside a house. Do not take any of the meat outside. Do not break any of the bones. 
Exodus12:47 The whole community of Israel must celebrate the Passover. 
Exodus12:48 Suppose an outsider who is living among you wants to celebrate the Lord's Passover. Then all of the males in that home must be circumcised. After that, the person can take part, just like an Israelite. Only males who are circumcised can eat it." 
Exodus12:49 The same law applies to Israelites and to outsiders who are living among you. 
Exodus12:50 All of the people of Israel did just what the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron. 
Exodus12:51 On that very day the Lord brought the Israelites out of Egypt like an army on the march. 
Exodus13:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus13:2 Set apart for me the first boy born in every family. The oldest son of every Israelite mother belongs to me. Every male animal that is born first to its mother also belongs to me. 
Exodus13:3 Then Moses said to the people, ""Remember this day. It's the day you came out of Egypt. That's the land where you were slaves. The Lord used his mighty hand to bring you out of Egypt. Don't eat anything that has yeast in it." 
Exodus13:4 You are leaving today. It's the month of Abib. 
Exodus13:5 The Lord will bring you into the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Hivites and Jebusites. He took an oath and promised your people of long ago that he would give that land to you. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey. When you get there, keep this holy day in this month." 
Exodus13:6 For seven days eat bread that is made without yeast. On the seventh day hold a feast in the Lord's honor. 
Exodus13:7 Eat bread that is made without yeast during those seven days. Nothing that has yeast in it should be found among you. No yeast should be seen anywhere inside your borders. 
Exodus13:8 On that day talk to your son. Tell him, 'I'm doing this because of what the Lord did for me when I came out of Egypt.'" 
Exodus13:9 When you celebrate this day, it will be like a mark on your hand. It will be like a reminder on your forehead. The law of the Lord must be on your lips. The Lord used his mighty hand to bring you out of Egypt." 
Exodus13:10 Obey this law at the appointed time year after year. 
Exodus13:11 The Lord will bring you into the land of Canaan. He will give it to you, just as he promised he would. He even took an oath when he made the promise to you and your people of long ago." 
Exodus13:12 After you arrive there, give to the Lord the oldest son of every mother. Every male animal that is born first to its mother among your livestock belongs to the Lord." 
Exodus13:13 By sacrificing a lamb, buy back every male donkey that is born first to its mother. But if you don't buy the donkey back, break its neck. Buy back every oldest son." 
Exodus13:14 In days to come, your son will ask you, 'What does this mean?' ""When he does, say to him, 'The Lord used his mighty hand to bring us out of Egypt. That's the land where we were slaves." 
Exodus13:15 Pharaoh was stubborn. He refused to let us go. So the Lord killed every oldest son in Egypt. He also killed every male animal that was born first to its mother. That's why I sacrifice to the Lord every male animal that was born first. And that's why I buy back each oldest son for him.' 
Exodus13:16 This day will be like a mark on your hand. It will be like a sign on your forehead. It will remind you that the Lord used his mighty hand to bring us out of Egypt. 
Exodus13:17 Pharaoh let the people go. The shortest road from Goshen to Canaan went through the Philistine country. But God didn't lead them that way. God said, ""If they have to go into battle, they might change their minds. They might return to Egypt.""" 
Exodus13:18 So God led the people toward the Red Sea by taking them on a road through the desert. The Israelites were prepared for battle when they went up out of Egypt. 
Exodus13:19 Moses took the bones of Joseph along with him. Joseph had made the sons of Israel take an oath and make a promise. He had said, ""I'm sure that God will come to help you. When he does, you must carry my bones up from this place with you."",(Genesis 50:25)" 
Exodus13:19 Moses took the bones of Joseph along with him. Joseph had made the sons of Israel take an oath and make a promise. He had said, ""I'm sure that God will come to help you. When he does, you must carry my bones up from this place with you."",(Genesis 50:25)" 
Exodus13:20 The people left Succoth. They camped at Etham on the edge of the desert. 
Exodus13:21 By day the Lord went ahead of them in a pillar of cloud. It guided them on their way. At night he led them with a pillar of fire. It gave them light. So they could travel by day or at night. 
Exodus13:22 The pillar of cloud didn't leave its place in front of the people during the day. And the pillar of fire didn't leave its place at night. 
Exodus14:1 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. 
Exodus14:2 He said, ""Tell the people of Israel to turn back. Have them camp near Pi Hahiroth between Migdol and the Red Sea. They must camp by the sea, right across from Baal Zephon." 
Exodus14:3 Pharaoh will think, 'The people of Israel are wandering around the land. They don't know which way to go. The desert is all around them.'" 
Exodus14:4 I will make Pharaoh's heart stubborn. He will chase them. But I will gain glory for myself because of what will happen to Pharaoh and his whole army. And the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord. So the Israelites camped by the Red Sea. 
Exodus14:5 The king of Egypt was told that the people had gotten away. Then Pharaoh and his officials changed their minds about them. They said, ""What have we done? We've let the people of Israel go! We've lost our slaves and all of the work they used to do for us!""" 
Exodus14:6 So he had his chariot made ready. He took his army with him. 
Exodus14:7 He took 600 of the best chariots in Egypt. He also took along all of the other chariots. Officers were in charge of all of them. 
Exodus14:8 The Lord made the heart of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, stubborn. So he chased the Israelites, who were marching out boldly." 
Exodus14:9 The Egyptians went after the Israelites. All of Pharaoh's horses and chariots and horsemen and troops went after them. They caught up with them as they camped by the sea. The Israelites were near Pi Hahiroth, across from Baal Zephon." 
Exodus14:10 As Pharaoh approached, the people of Israel looked up. There were the Egyptians marching after them! The Israelites were terrified. They cried out to the Lord." 
Exodus14:11 They said to Moses, ""Why did you bring us to the desert to die? Weren't there any graves in Egypt? What have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt?" 
Exodus14:12 We told you in Egypt, 'Leave us alone. Let us serve the Egyptians.' It would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die here in the desert!""" 
Exodus14:13 Moses answered the people. He said, ""Don't be afraid. Stand firm. You will see how the Lord will save you today. Do you see those Egyptians? You will never see them again." 
Exodus14:14 The Lord will fight for you. Just be still. 
Exodus14:15 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Why are you crying out to me? Tell the people of Israel to move on." 
Exodus14:16 Hold your wooden staff out. Reach your hand out over the Red Sea to part the water. Then the people can go through the sea on dry ground. 
Exodus14:17 I will make the hearts of the Egyptians stubborn. They will go in after the Israelites. I will gain glory for myself because of what will happen to Pharaoh, his whole army, his chariots and his horsemen." 
Exodus14:18 The Egyptians will know that I am the Lord. I will gain glory because of what will happen to all of them. 
Exodus14:19 The angel of God had been traveling in front of Israel's army. Now he moved back and went behind them. The pillar of cloud also moved away from in front of them. Now it stood behind them. 
Exodus14:20 It came between the armies of Egypt and Israel. All through the night the cloud brought darkness to one side and light to the other. Neither army went near the other all night long. 
Exodus14:21 Then Moses reached his hand out over the Red Sea. All that night the Lord pushed the sea back with a strong east wind. He turned the sea into dry land. The waters were parted. 
Exodus14:22 The people of Israel went through the sea on dry ground. There was a wall of water on their right side and on their left. 
Exodus14:23 The Egyptians chased them. All of Pharaoh's horses and chariots and horsemen followed them into the sea. 
Exodus14:24 Near the end of the night the Lord looked down from the pillar of fire and cloud. He saw the Egyptian army and threw it into a panic. 
Exodus14:25 He kept their chariot wheels from turning freely. That made the chariots hard to drive. The Egyptians said, ""Let's get away from the Israelites! The Lord is fighting for Israel against Egypt.""" 
Exodus14:26 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Reach your hand out over the sea. The waters will flow back over the Egyptians and their chariots and horsemen.""" 
Exodus14:27 So Moses reached his hand out over the sea. At sunrise the sea went back to its place. The Egyptians tried to run away from the sea. But the Lord swept them into it. 
Exodus14:28 The water flowed back and covered the chariots and horsemen. It covered the entire army of Pharaoh that had followed the people of Israel into the sea. Not one of the Egyptians was left. 
Exodus14:29 But the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground. There was a wall of water on their right side and on their left. 
Exodus14:30 That day the Lord saved Israel from the power of Egypt. Israel saw the Egyptians lying dead on the shore. 
Exodus14:31 The Israelites saw the great power the Lord showed against the Egyptians. So they had respect for the Lord. They put their trust in him and in his servant Moses. 
Exodus15:1 Here is the song that Moses and the people of Israel sang to the Lord. They said, ""I will sing to the Lord. He is greatly honored. He has thrown Pharaoh's horses and their riders into the Red Sea." 
Exodus15:2 The Lord gives me strength. I sing about him. He has saved me. He is my God. I will praise him. He is my father's God. I will honor him. 
Exodus15:3 The Lord goes into battle. The Lord is his name. 
Exodus15:4 He has thrown Pharaoh's chariots and army into the Red Sea. Pharaoh's best officers drowned in the sea. 
Exodus15:5 The deep waters covered them. They sank to the bottom like a stone. 
Exodus15:6 Lord, your right hand was majestic and powerful. Lord, your right hand destroyed your enemies." 
Exodus15:7 Because of your great majesty, you threw down those who opposed you. Your burning anger blazed out. It burned them up like straw." 
Exodus15:8 The powerful blast from your nose piled up the waters. The rushing waters stood firm like a wall. The deep waters stood up in the middle of the sea. 
Exodus15:9 Your enemies bragged, 'We will chase Israel. We will catch them. We'll divide up what we take from them. We'll eat them alive. We'll pull our swords out. Our powerful hands will destroy them.'" 
Exodus15:10 But you blew with your breath. The Red Sea covered your enemies. They sank like lead in the mighty waters. 
Exodus15:11 Lord, who among the gods is like you? Who is like you? You are majestic and holy. Your glory fills me with wonder. You do wonderful miracles." 
Exodus15:12 You reached out your right hand. The earth swallowed up the Egyptians. 
Exodus15:13 Because your love is faithful, you will lead the people you have set free. Because you are so strong, you will guide them to the holy place where you live." 
Exodus15:14 The nations will hear about it and tremble. Pain and suffering will take hold of the Philistines. 
Exodus15:15 The chiefs of Edom will be terrified. The leaders of Moab will tremble with fear. The people of Canaan will melt away. 
Exodus15:16 Fear and terror will fall on them. Your powerful arm will make them as still as a stone. Then your people will pass by, Lord. Then the people you created will pass by." 
Exodus15:17 You will bring them in. You will plant them on the mountain you gave them. Lord, you have made that place your home. Lord, your hands have made your holy place secure." 
Exodus15:18 The Lord will rule for ever and ever. 
Exodus15:19 Pharaoh's horses, chariots and horsemen went into the Red Sea. The Lord brought the waters of the sea back over them. But the people of Israel walked through the sea on dry ground." 
Exodus15:20 Aaron's sister Miriam was a prophet. She took a tambourine in her hand. All the women followed her. They played tambourines and danced. 
Exodus15:21 Miriam sang to them, ""Sing to the Lord. He is greatly honored. He has thrown Pharaoh's horses and their riders into the Red Sea.""" 
Exodus15:22 Then Moses led Israel away from the Red Sea. They went into the Desert of Shur. For three days they traveled in the desert. They didn't find any water there. 
Exodus15:23 When they came to Marah, they couldn't drink its water. It was bitter. That's why the place is named Marah." 
Exodus15:24 The people told Moses they weren't happy with him. They said, ""What are we supposed to drink?""" 
Exodus15:25 Then Moses cried out to the Lord. The Lord showed him a stick. Moses threw it into the water. The water became sweet. There the Lord made a rule and a law for the people. And there he put them to the test. 
Exodus15:26 He said, ""I am the Lord your God. Listen carefully to my voice. Do what is right in my eyes. Pay attention to my commands. Obey all of my rules. If you do, I will not send on you any of the sicknesses I sent on the Egyptians. I am the Lord who heals you.""" 
Exodus15:27 The people came to Elim. It had 12 springs and 70 palm trees. They camped there near the water. 
Exodus16:1 The whole community of Israel started out from Elim. They came to the Desert of Sin. It was between Elim and Sinai. They arrived there on the 15th day of the second month after they had come out of Egypt. 
Exodus16:2 In the desert the whole community told Moses and Aaron they weren't happy with them. 
Exodus16:3 The Israelites said to them, ""We wish the Lord had put us to death in Egypt. There we sat around pots of meat. We ate all of the food we wanted. But you have brought us out into this desert. You must want this entire community to die of hunger.""" 
Exodus16:4 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people must go out each day. Have them gather enough bread for that day. Here is how I will put them to the test. I will see if they will follow my directions." 
Exodus16:5 On the sixth day they must prepare what they bring in. On that day they must gather twice as much as on the other days. 
Exodus16:6 So Moses and Aaron spoke to all of the people of Israel. They said, ""In the evening you will know that the Lord brought you out of Egypt." 
Exodus16:7 And in the morning you will see the glory of the Lord. He has heard you say you aren't happy with him. Who are we? Why are you telling us you aren't happy with us? 
Exodus16:8 Moses also said, ""You will know that the Lord has heard you speak against him. He will give you meat to eat in the evening. He'll give you all of the bread you want in the morning. But who are we? You aren't speaking against us. You are speaking against the Lord.""" 
Exodus16:9 Then Moses told Aaron, ""Talk to the whole community of Israel. Say to them, 'Come to the Lord. He has heard you speak against him.' """ 
Exodus16:10 While Aaron was talking to the whole community of Israel, they looked toward the desert. There was the glory of the Lord appearing in the cloud!" 
Exodus16:11 The Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus16:12 I have heard the people of Israel talking about how unhappy they are. Tell them, 'When the sun goes down, you will eat meat. In the morning you will be filled with bread. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God.' """ 
Exodus16:13 That evening quail came and covered the camp. In the morning the ground around the camp was covered with dew. 
Exodus16:14 When the dew was gone, thin flakes appeared on the desert floor. They looked like frost on the ground." 
Exodus16:15 The people of Israel saw the flakes. They asked each other, ""What's that?"" They didn't know what it was. Moses said to them, ""It's the bread the Lord has given you to eat." 
Exodus16:16 Here is what the Lord has commanded. He has said, 'Each one of you should gather as much as you need. Take two quarts for each person who lives in your tent.' """ 
Exodus16:17 The people of Israel did as they were told. Some gathered a lot, and some gathered a little." 
Exodus16:18 When they measured it out, those who gathered a lot didn't have too much. And those who gathered a little had enough. All of them gathered only what they needed." 
Exodus16:19 Then Moses said to them, ""Don't keep any of it until morning.""" 
Exodus16:20 Some of them didn't pay any attention to Moses. They kept part of it until morning. But it was full of maggots and began to stink. So Moses became angry with them. 
Exodus16:21 Each morning all of them gathered as much as they needed. But by the hottest time of the day, the thin flakes had melted away." 
Exodus16:22 On the sixth day, the people gathered twice as much. It amounted to four quarts for each person. The leaders of the community came and reported that to Moses." 
Exodus16:23 He said to them, ""Here is what the Lord commanded. He said, 'Tomorrow will be a day of rest. It will be a holy Sabbath day. It will be set apart for the Lord. So bake what you want to bake. Boil what you want to boil. Save what is left. Keep it until morning.' """ 
Exodus16:24 So they saved it until morning, just as Moses commanded. It didn't stink or get maggots in it." 
Exodus16:25 Eat it today,"" Moses said. ""Today is a Sabbath day in the Lord's honor. You won't find any flakes on the ground today." 
Exodus16:26 Gather them for six days. But on the seventh day there won't be any. It's the Sabbath. 
Exodus16:27 In spite of what Moses said, some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather the flakes. But they didn't find any." 
Exodus16:28 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""How long will all of you refuse to obey my commands and my teachings?" 
Exodus16:29 Keep in mind that I have given you the Sabbath day. That is why on the sixth day I give you bread for two days. All of you must stay where you are on the seventh day. No one can go out. 
Exodus16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day. 
Exodus16:31 The people of Israel called the bread manna. It was white like coriander seeds. It tasted like wafers that were made with honey. 
Exodus16:32 Moses said, ""Here is what the Lord has commanded. He has said, 'Get two quarts of manna. Keep it for all time to come. Then those who live after you will see the bread I gave you to eat in the desert. I gave it to you when I brought you out of Egypt.' """ 
Exodus16:33 So Moses said to Aaron, ""Get a jar. Put two quarts of manna in it. Then place it in front of the Lord. Keep it there for all time to come.""" 
Exodus16:34 Aaron did exactly as the Lord had commanded Moses. He put the manna in front of the tablets of the covenant. He put it there so it would be kept for all time to come. 
Exodus16:35 The people of Israel ate manna for 40 years. They ate it until they came to a land that was settled. They ate it until they reached the border of Canaan. 
Exodus16:36 The jar had an omer of manna in it. An omer was two quarts. 
Exodus17:1 The whole community of Israel started out from the Desert of Sin. They traveled from place to place, just as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephidim. But there wasn't any water for the people to drink." 
Exodus17:2 So they argued with Moses. They said, ""Give us water to drink."" Moses replied, ""Why are you arguing with me? Why are you putting the Lord to the test?""" 
Exodus17:3 But the people were thirsty for water there. So they told Moses they weren't happy with him. They said, ""Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? Did you want us, our children and our livestock to die of thirst?""" 
Exodus17:4 Then Moses cried out to the Lord. He said, ""What am I going to do with these people? They are almost ready to kill me by throwing stones at me.""" 
Exodus17:5 The Lord answered Moses. He said, ""Walk on ahead of the people. Take some of the elders of Israel along with you. Take in your hand the wooden staff you used when you struck the Nile River. Go." 
Exodus17:6 I will stand there in front of you by the rock at Mount Horeb. Hit the rock. Then water will come out of it for the people to drink. So Moses hit the rock in the sight of the elders of Israel. 
Exodus17:7 Moses called the place Massah and Meribah. That's because the people of Israel argued with him there. They also put the Lord to the test. They asked, ""Is the Lord among us or not?""" 
Exodus17:8 The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Rephidim. 
Exodus17:9 Moses said to Joshua, ""Choose some of our men. Then go out and fight against the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill. I'll stand there with the staff of God in my hands.""" 
Exodus17:9 Moses said to Joshua, ""Choose some of our men. Then go out and fight against the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill. I'll stand there with the staff of God in my hands.""" 
Exodus17:10 So Joshua fought against the Amalekites, just as Moses had ordered. Moses, Aaron and Hur went to the top of the hill." 
Exodus17:10 So Joshua fought against the Amalekites, just as Moses had ordered. Moses, Aaron and Hur went to the top of the hill." 
Exodus17:11 As long as Moses held his hands up, the Israelites were winning. But every time he lowered his hands, the Amalekites began to win." 
Exodus17:12 When Moses' arms got tired, Aaron and Hur got a stone and put it under him. Then he sat on it. Aaron and Hur held his hands up. Aaron was on one side, and Hur was on the other. Moses' hands remained steady until sunset." 
Exodus17:13 So Joshua destroyed the Amalekite army with swords. 
Exodus17:13 So Joshua destroyed the Amalekite army with swords. 
Exodus17:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""That is something to be remembered. So write it on a scroll. Make sure Joshua knows you have done it. I will completely erase the memory of the Amalekites from the earth.""" 
Exodus17:14 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""That is something to be remembered. So write it on a scroll. Make sure Joshua knows you have done it. I will completely erase the memory of the Amalekites from the earth.""" 
Exodus17:15 Then Moses built an altar. He called it The Lord Is My Banner. 
Exodus17:16 He said, ""I raised my hands toward the throne of the Lord. The Lord will fight against the Amalekites for all time to come.""" 
Exodus18:1 Moses' father-in-law Jethro was the priest of Midian. He heard about everything God had done for Moses and for his people Israel. He heard how the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt. 
Exodus18:2 Moses had sent his wife Zipporah to his father-in-law. So Jethro welcomed her 
Exodus18:3 and her two sons. One son was named Gershom. That's because Moses had said, ""I'm an outsider in a strange land.""" 
Exodus18:4 The other was named Eliezer. That's because Moses had said, ""My father's God helped me. He saved me from Pharaoh's sword.""" 
Exodus18:5 Moses' father-in-law Jethro came to Moses in the desert. Moses' sons and wife came with Jethro. Moses was camped near the mountain of God. 
Exodus18:6 Jethro had sent a message to him. It said, ""I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you. I'm bringing your wife and her two sons.""" 
Exodus18:7 So Moses went out to meet his father-in-law. Moses bowed down and kissed him. They greeted each other. Then they went into the tent. 
Exodus18:8 Moses told his father-in-law about everything the Lord had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians because of how much he loved Israel. He told him about all of their hard times along the way. He told him about how the Lord had saved them. 
Exodus18:9 Jethro was delighted to hear about all of the good things the Lord had done for Israel. He heard about how God had saved them from the power of Egypt. 
Exodus18:10 He said, ""I praise the Lord. He saved you and your people from the power of Pharaoh and Egypt." 
Exodus18:11 Now I know that the Lord is greater than all other gods. See what he did to those who looked down on Israel. 
Exodus18:12 Then Moses' father-in-law Jethro brought a burnt offering and other sacrifices to God. Aaron came with all of the elders of Israel. They ate with Moses' father-in-law in the sight of God. 
Exodus18:13 The next day Moses took his seat to serve the people as their judge. They stood around him from morning until evening. 
Exodus18:14 His father-in-law saw everything Moses was doing for the people. So he said, ""Aren't you trying to do too much for the people? You are the only judge. And all of these people are standing around you from morning until evening.""" 
Exodus18:15 Moses answered him. He said, ""The people come to me to find out what God wants them to do." 
Exodus18:16 Anytime they don't agree, they come to me. I decide between them. I tell them about God's rules and laws.""" 
Exodus18:17 Moses' father-in-law replied, ""What you are doing isn't good." 
Exodus18:18 You will just get worn out. And so will these people who come to you. There's too much work for you. You can't possibly handle it by yourself. 
Exodus18:19 Listen to me. I'll give you some advice, and may God be with you. You must speak to God for the people. Take their problems to him." 
Exodus18:20 Teach them the rules and laws. Show them how to live and what to do. 
Exodus18:21 But choose men of ability from all of the people. They must have respect for God. You must be able to trust them. They must not try to get money by cheating others. Appoint them as officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens." 
Exodus18:22 Let them serve the people as judges. But have them bring every hard case to you. They can decide the easy ones themselves. That will make your load lighter. They will share it with you. 
Exodus18:23 If this is what God wants and if you do it, then you will be able to carry the load. And all of these people will go home satisfied.""" 
Exodus18:24 Moses listened to his father-in-law. He did everything Jethro said. 
Exodus18:25 He chose men of ability from the whole community of Israel. He made them leaders of the people. They became officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens." 
Exodus18:26 They judged the people at all times. They brought the hard cases to Moses. But they decided the easy ones themselves. 
Exodus18:27 Moses sent his father-in-law on his way. So Jethro returned to his own country. 
Exodus19:1 Exactly three months after the people of Israel left Egypt, they came to the Desert of Sinai." 
Exodus19:2 After they started out from Rephidim, they entered the Desert of Sinai. They camped there in the desert in front of the mountain." 
Exodus19:3 Then Moses went up to God. The Lord called out to him from the mountain. He said, ""Here is what I want you to say to my people, who came from Jacob's family. Tell the Israelites," 
Exodus19:4 You have seen for yourselves what I did to Egypt. You saw how I carried you on the wings of eagles and brought you to myself. 
Exodus19:5  'Now obey me completely. Keep my covenant. If you do, then out of all of the nations you will be my special treasure. The whole earth is mine." 
Exodus19:6 But you will be a kingdom of priests to serve me. You will be my holy nation.' That is what you must tell the Israelites. 
Exodus19:7 So Moses went back. He sent for the elders of the people. He explained to them everything the Lord had commanded him to say. 
Exodus19:8 All of the people answered together. They said, ""We will do everything the Lord has said."" So Moses brought their answer back to the Lord." 
Exodus19:9 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""I am going to come to you in a thick cloud. The people will hear me speaking with you. They will always put their trust in you."" Then Moses told the Lord what the people had said." 
Exodus19:10 The Lord said to Moses, ""Go to the people. Today and tomorrow set them apart for me. Have them wash their clothes." 
Exodus19:11 Have the people ready by the third day. On that day I will come down on Mount Sinai. Everyone will see it. 
Exodus19:12 Put limits for the people around the mountain. Tell them, 'Be careful that you do not go up the mountain. Do not even touch the foot of it. You can be sure that all who touch the mountain will be put to death." 
Exodus19:13 Do not lay a hand on any of them. Kill them with stones or shoot them with arrows. Whether they are people or animals, do not let them live.' They may go up to the mountain only when the ram's horn gives out a long blast.""" 
Exodus19:14 Moses went down the mountain to the people. After he set them apart for the Lord, they washed their clothes." 
Exodus19:15 Then he spoke to the people. He said, ""Get ready for the third day. Don't make love.""" 
Exodus19:16 On the morning of the third day there was thunder and lightning. A thick cloud covered the mountain. A trumpet gave out a very loud blast. Everyone in the camp trembled with fear. 
Exodus19:17 Then Moses led the people out of the camp to meet with God. They stood at the foot of the mountain. 
Exodus19:18 Smoke covered Mount Sinai, because the Lord came down on it in fire. The smoke rose up from it like smoke from a furnace. The whole mountain trembled and shook." 
Exodus19:19 The sound of the trumpet got louder and louder. Then Moses spoke. And the voice of God answered him. 
Exodus19:20 The Lord came down to the top of Mount Sinai. He told Moses to come to the top of the mountain. So Moses went up. 
Exodus19:21 The Lord said to him, ""Go down and warn the people. They must not force their way through to see me. If they do, many of them will die." 
Exodus19:22 The priests approach me when they serve me. But even they must set themselves apart for me. If they do not, my anger will break out against them.""" 
Exodus19:23 Moses said to the Lord, ""The people can't come up Mount Sinai. You yourself warned us. You said, 'Put limits around the mountain. Set it apart as holy.' """ 
Exodus19:24 The Lord replied, ""Go down. Bring Aaron up with you. But the priests and the people must not force their way through. They must not come up to me. If they do, my anger will break out against them.""" 
Exodus19:25 So Moses went down to the people and told them. 
Exodus20:1 Here are all of the words God spoke. He said," 
Exodus20:2 I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. That is the land where you were slaves. 
Exodus20:3 Do not put any other gods in place of me. 
Exodus20:4 Do not make statues of gods that look like anything in the sky or on the earth or in the waters. 
Exodus20:5 Do not bow down to them or worship them. I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. I punish the children for the sin of their parents. I punish the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of those who hate me." 
Exodus20:6 But for all time to come I show love to all those who love me and keep my commandments. 
Exodus20:7 Do not misuse the name of the Lord your God. The Lord will find guilty anyone who misuses his name. 
Exodus20:8 Remember to keep the Sabbath day holy. 
Exodus20:9 Do all of your work in six days. 
Exodus20:10 But the seventh day is a Sabbath in honor of the Lord your God. Do not do any work on that day. The same command applies to your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, and your animals. It also applies to any outsiders who live in your cities." 
Exodus20:11 In six days I made the heavens and the earth. I made the oceans and everything in them. But I rested on the seventh day. So I blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. 
Exodus20:12 Honor your father and mother. Then you will live a long time in the land the Lord your God is giving you. 
Exodus20:13 Do not commit murder. 
Exodus20:14 Do not commit adultery. 
Exodus20:15 Do not steal. 
Exodus20:16 Do not give false witness against your neighbor. 
Exodus20:17 Do not long for anything that belongs to your neighbor. Do not long for your neighbor's house, wife, male or female servant, ox or donkey.""" 
Exodus20:18 The people saw the thunder and lightning. They heard the trumpet. They saw the mountain covered with smoke. They trembled with fear and stayed a long way off. 
Exodus20:19 They said to Moses, ""Speak to us yourself. Then we'll listen. But don't let God speak to us. If he does, we'll die.""" 
Exodus20:20 Moses said to the people, ""Don't be afraid. God has come to put you to the test. He wants you to have respect for him. That will keep you from sinning.""" 
Exodus20:21 Moses approached the thick darkness where God was. But the people remained a long way off. 
Exodus20:22 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""Here is what you must tell the people of Israel. Say to them, 'You have seen for yourselves what I said to you from heaven." 
Exodus20:23 Do not put any other gods in place of me. Do not make silver or gold statues of them for yourselves. 
Exodus20:24  'Make an altar out of dirt for me. Sacrifice your burnt offerings and friendship offerings on it. Sacrifice your sheep, goats and cattle on it. I will come to you and bless you everywhere I cause my name to be honored." 
Exodus20:25  'If you make an altar out of stones in honor of me, do not build it with blocks of stone. You will make it ""unclean"" if you use a tool on it." 
Exodus20:26  'Do not walk up steps to my altar. If you do, someone might see your naked body under your robes.'" 
Exodus21:1 Here are the laws you must explain to the people of Israel. 
Exodus21:2 Suppose you buy a Hebrew servant. He must serve you for six years. But in the seventh year, you must set him free. He does not have to pay anything." 
Exodus21:3 If he does not have a wife when he comes, he must go free alone. But if he has a wife when he comes, she must go with him." 
Exodus21:4 Suppose his master gives him a wife. And suppose she has sons or daughters by him. Then only the man will go free. The woman and her children will belong to her master. 
Exodus21:5 But suppose the servant says, 'I love my master and my wife and children. I don't want to go free.'" 
Exodus21:6 Then his master must take him to the judges. He must be taken to the door or doorpost of his master's house. His master must poke a hole through his ear lobe into the doorpost. Then he will become his servant for life. 
Exodus21:7 Suppose a man sells his daughter as a servant. Then she can't go free as male servants do. 
Exodus21:8 But what if the master who has chosen her does not like her? Then he must let the man buy her back. He has no right to sell her to strangers. He has broken his promise to her. 
Exodus21:9 What if he chooses her to get married to his son? Then he must grant her the rights of a daughter. 
Exodus21:10 What if he marries another woman? He must still give the first one her food and clothes and make love to her. 
Exodus21:11 If he does not provide her with those three things, she can go free. She does not have to pay anything." 
Exodus21:12 You can be sure that if anyone hits and kills someone else, he will be put to death." 
Exodus21:13 Suppose he did not do it on purpose. Suppose I let it happen. Then he can escape to a place I will choose. 
Exodus21:14 But suppose he kills someone on purpose. Then take him away from my altar and put him to death. 
Exodus21:15 If anyone attacks his father or mother, he will be put to death." 
Exodus21:16 If anyone kidnaps and sells another person, he will be put to death. If he still has the person with him when he is caught, he will be put to death." 
Exodus21:17 If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death." 
Exodus21:18 Suppose two men get into a fight and argue with each other. One hits the other with a stone or his fist. He does not die but has to stay in bed. 
Exodus21:19 And later he gets up and walks around outside with his walking stick. Then the man who hit him will not be held accountable. But he must pay the one who was hurt for the time he spent in bed. He must be sure that the person is completely healed. 
Exodus21:20 Suppose a man beats his male or female slave to death with a club. Then he must be punished. 
Exodus21:21 But he will not be punished if the slave gets up after a day or two. After all, the slave is his property." 
Exodus21:22 Suppose some men are fighting and one of them hits a pregnant woman. And suppose she has her baby early but is not badly hurt. Then the man who hurt her must pay a fine. He must pay what the woman's husband asks for and the court allows. 
Exodus21:23 But if someone is badly hurt, a life must be taken for a life." 
Exodus21:24 An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth. A hand must be cut off for a hand and a foot for a foot. 
Exodus21:25 A burn must be given for a burn, a wound for a wound, and a bruise for a bruise." 
Exodus21:26 Suppose a man hits his male or female servant in the eye and destroys it. Then he must let the servant go free to pay for the eye. 
Exodus21:27 Suppose he knocks out the tooth of a male or female servant. Then he must let the servant go free to pay for the tooth. 
Exodus21:28 Suppose a bull kills a man or woman with its horns. Then you must kill the bull by throwing stones at it. Its meat must not be eaten. The owner of the bull will not be held accountable. 
Exodus21:29 But suppose the bull has had the habit of attacking people. And suppose the owner has been warned but has not kept it fenced in. Then if it kills a man or woman, you must kill it with stones. The owner must also be put to death." 
Exodus21:30 But suppose payment is required of him instead. Then he can save his life by paying what is required. 
Exodus21:31 The same law applies if the bull wounds a son or daughter with its horns. 
Exodus21:32 Suppose the bull wounds a male or female slave. Then the owner must pay the slave's master 12 ounces of silver. You must kill the bull with stones. 
Exodus21:33 Suppose a man uncovers a pit or digs one and does not cover it. And suppose an ox or donkey falls into it. 
Exodus21:34 Then the owner of the pit must pay the animal's owner for the loss. The dead animal will belong to the owner of the pit. 
Exodus21:35 Suppose a man's bull wounds a neighbor's bull and it dies. Then they must sell the live one. And they must share the money and the dead animal equally. 
Exodus21:36 But suppose people knew that the bull had the habit of attacking. And suppose the owner did not keep it fenced in. Then he must give another animal to pay for the dead animal. The dead animal will belong to him. 
Exodus22:1 Suppose a man steals an ox or a sheep. And suppose he kills it or sells it. Then he must pay back five head of cattle for the ox. Or he must pay back four sheep or goats for the sheep. 
Exodus22:2 Suppose you catch a thief breaking into your house. And suppose you hit the thief and kill him. Then you are not guilty of murder. 
Exodus22:3 But suppose it happens after the sun has come up. Then you are guilty of murder. A thief must pay for what he has stolen. But suppose he does not have anything. Then he must be sold to pay for what he has stolen. 
Exodus22:4 What if the stolen ox, donkey or sheep is found alive with him? Then the thief must pay back twice as much as he stole." 
Exodus22:5 Suppose a man lets his livestock eat grass in someone else's field or vineyard. Then he must pay that person back from the best crops of his own field or vineyard. 
Exodus22:6 Suppose a fire breaks out and spreads into bushes. It burns grain that has been cut and stacked. Or it burns grain that is still growing. Or it burns the whole field. Then the one who started the fire must pay for the loss. 
Exodus22:7 Suppose a man gives his neighbor silver or other things to keep safe. And suppose they are stolen from the neighbor's house. If the thief is caught, he must pay back twice as much as he stole." 
Exodus22:8 But suppose the thief is not found. Then the neighbor must go to the judges. They will decide whether the neighbor has stolen the other person's property. 
Exodus22:9 Suppose you have an ox, donkey, sheep or clothing that does not belong to you. Or you have other property that was lost by someone else. And suppose someone says, 'That belongs to me.' Then both people must bring their case to the judges. The one the judges decide is guilty must pay back twice as much to the other person." 
Exodus22:10 Suppose a man asks his neighbor to take care of a donkey, ox, sheep or any other animal. And suppose the animal dies or gets hurt. Or suppose it is stolen while no one is looking." 
Exodus22:11 Then the problem will be settled by taking an oath and promising the Lord to tell the truth. Suppose the neighbor takes an oath and says, 'I didn't steal your property.' Then the owner must accept what the neighbor says. No payment is required." 
Exodus22:12 But suppose the animal really was stolen. Then the neighbor must pay the owner back. 
Exodus22:13 Or suppose it was torn to pieces by a wild animal. Then the neighbor must bring in what is left as proof. No payment is required. 
Exodus22:14 Suppose a man borrows an animal from his neighbor. And it gets hurt or dies while the owner is not there. Then the man must pay for it. 
Exodus22:15 But suppose the owner is with the animal. Then the man will not have to pay. If he hired the animal, the money he paid to hire it covers the loss." 
Exodus22:16 Suppose a man meets a virgin who is not engaged. And he talks her into having sex with him. Then he must pay her father the price for a bride. And he must get married to her. 
Exodus22:17 But suppose her father absolutely refuses to give her to him. Then he must still pay the price for getting married to a virgin. 
Exodus22:18 Do not let a woman who does evil magic stay alive. Put her to death. 
Exodus22:19 Anyone who has sex with an animal must be put to death. 
Exodus22:20 Anyone who sacrifices to any god other than me must be destroyed. 
Exodus22:21 Do not treat outsiders badly. Do not beat them down. Remember, you were outsiders in Egypt." 
Exodus22:22 Do not take advantage of widows. Do not take advantage of children whose fathers have died. 
Exodus22:23 If you do, they might cry out to me. Then I will certainly hear them." 
Exodus22:24 And I will get angry. I will kill you with a sword. Your wives will become widows. Your children's fathers will die. 
Exodus22:25 Suppose you lend money to one of my people among you who is in need. Then do not be like those who lend money and charge interest. Do not charge any interest. 
Exodus22:26 Suppose your neighbor owes you money and gives you a coat as a promise to pay it back. Then return it to him by sunset. 
Exodus22:27 That coat is the only thing he owns to wear or sleep in. When he cries out to me, I will listen, because I am loving and kind." 
Exodus22:28 Do not speak evil things against me. Do not call down a curse on the ruler of your people. 
Exodus22:29 Do not hold back your grain offerings or wine offerings. You must give me the oldest of your sons. 
Exodus22:30 Do the same with your cattle and sheep. Let them stay with their mothers for seven days. But give them to me on the eighth day. 
Exodus22:31 I want you to be my holy people. So do not eat the meat of any animal that has been torn by wild animals. Throw it to the dogs. 
Exodus23:1 Do not spread reports that are false. Do not help an evil person by telling lies in court. 
Exodus23:2 Do not follow the crowd when they do what is wrong. When you are a witness in court, do not turn what is right into wrong. Do not go along with the crowd." 
Exodus23:3 Do not show favor to a poor person in court. 
Exodus23:4 Suppose you come across your enemy's ox or donkey wandering away. Then be sure to take it back to him. 
Exodus23:5 Suppose you see that the donkey of someone who hates you has fallen down under its load. Then do not leave it there. Be sure you help him with it. 
Exodus23:6 Be fair to your poor people in their court cases. 
Exodus23:7 Do not have anything to do with a charge that is false. Do not put to death those who are not guilty of doing anything wrong. I will not let those who are guilty go free. 
Exodus23:8 Do not take money from people who want special favors. It makes you blind to the truth. It twists the words of godly people. 
Exodus23:9 Do not beat an outsider down. You yourselves know how it feels to be outsiders. Remember, you were outsiders in Egypt." 
Exodus23:10 For six years plant your fields and gather your crops. 
Exodus23:11 But during the seventh year do not plow your land or use it. Then the poor people who are among you can get food from it. The wild animals can eat what is left over. Do the same thing with your vineyards and your groves of olive trees. 
Exodus23:12 Do all of your work in six days. But do not do any work on the seventh day. Then your oxen and donkeys can rest. The slaves who are born in your house can be renewed. And so can the outsiders. 
Exodus23:13 Be careful to do everything I have said to you. Do not use the names of other gods. Do not even let them be heard on your lips. 
Exodus23:14 Three times a year you must celebrate a feast in my honor. 
Exodus23:15 Celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Eat bread that is made without yeast for seven days, just as I commanded you. Do it at the appointed time in the month of Abib. You came out of Egypt in that month. ""You must not come to worship me with your hands empty." 
Exodus23:16 Celebrate the Feast of Weeks. Bring the first share of your crops from your field. Celebrate the Feast of Booths. Hold it in the fall when you gather in your crops from the field. 
Exodus23:17 Three times a year all of your men must come to worship me. I am your Lord and King. 
Exodus23:18 Do not include anything that is made with yeast when you offer me the blood of a sacrifice. Suppose the fat from sacrifices is left over from my feasts. Then do not keep it until morning. 
Exodus23:19 Bring the best of the first share of your crops to my house. I am the Lord your God. Do not cook a young goat in its mother's milk. 
Exodus23:20 I am sending an angel ahead of you. He will guard you along the way. He will bring you to the place I have prepared. 
Exodus23:21 Pay attention to him. Listen to what he says. Do not refuse to obey him. He will not forgive you if you turn against him. My very Name is in him. 
Exodus23:22 Listen carefully to what he says. Do everything I say. Then I will be an enemy to your enemies. I will fight against those who fight against you. 
Exodus23:23 My angel will go ahead of you. He will bring you into the land of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hivites and Jebusites. I will wipe them out." 
Exodus23:24 Do not do what they do. Do not bow down to their gods or worship them. You must destroy the statues of their gods. You must break their sacred stones to pieces. 
Exodus23:25 I am the Lord your God. Worship me. Then I will bless your food and water. I will take away sickness from among you. 
Exodus23:26 In your land no woman will give birth to a dead baby. Every woman will be able to have children. I will give you a long life. 
Exodus23:27 I will send my terror ahead of you. I will throw every nation you meet into a panic. I will make all of your enemies turn their backs and run away. 
Exodus23:28 I will send hornets ahead of you. They will drive the Hivites, Canaanites and Hittites out of your way." 
Exodus23:29 But I will not drive them out in just one year. If I did, the land would be deserted. There would be too many wild animals for you." 
Exodus23:30 I will drive them out ahead of you little by little. I will do it until your numbers have increased enough for you to take control of the land. 
Exodus23:31 I will make your borders secure from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea. They will go from the desert to the Euphrates River. I will hand over to you the people who live in the land. You will drive them out to make room for you. 
Exodus23:32 Do not make a covenant with them or with their gods. 
Exodus23:33 Do not let them live in your land. If you do, they will cause you to sin against me. If you worship their gods, that will certainly be a trap for you.""" 
Exodus24:1 The Lord said to Moses, ""You and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and 70 of the elders of Israel must come up to me. Do not come close when you worship." 
Exodus24:2 Only Moses can come close to me. The others must not come near. And the people may not go up with him. 
Exodus24:3 Moses went and told the people all of the Lord's words and laws. They answered with one voice. They said, ""We will do everything the Lord has told us to do.""" 
Exodus24:4 Then Moses wrote down everything the Lord had said. Moses got up early the next morning. He built an altar at the foot of the mountain. He set up 12 stone pillars. They stood for the 12 tribes of Israel. 
Exodus24:5 Then he sent young Israelite men to offer burnt offerings. They also sacrificed young bulls as friendship offerings to the Lord. 
Exodus24:6 Moses took half of the blood and put it in bowls. He sprinkled the other half on the altar. 
Exodus24:7 Then he took the Scroll of the Covenant and read it to the people. They answered, ""We will do everything the Lord has told us to do. We will obey him.""" 
Exodus24:8 Then Moses took the blood and sprinkled it on the people. He said, ""This is the blood that puts the covenant into effect. The Lord has made this covenant with you in keeping with all of these words.""" 
Exodus24:9 Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and the 70 elders of Israel went up." 
Exodus24:10 They saw the God of Israel. Under his feet was something like a street made out of sapphire. It was as clear as the sky itself. 
Exodus24:11 But God didn't raise his hand against those leaders of the people of Israel. They saw God. And they ate and drank. 
Exodus24:12 The Lord said to Moses, ""Come up to me on the mountain. Stay here. I will give you the stone tablets. They contain the law and commands I have written to teach the people.""" 
Exodus24:13 Then Moses and Joshua, his helper, started out. Moses went up on the mountain of God." 
Exodus24:13 Then Moses and Joshua, his helper, started out. Moses went up on the mountain of God." 
Exodus24:14 He said to the elders, ""Wait for us here until we come back to you. Aaron and Hur are with you. Anyone who has a problem can go to them.""" 
Exodus24:15 Moses went up on the mountain. Then the cloud covered it. 
Exodus24:16 The glory of the Lord settled on Mount Sinai. The cloud covered the mountain for six days. On the seventh day the Lord called out to Moses from inside the cloud. 
Exodus24:17 The people of Israel saw the glory of the Lord. It looked like a fire burning on top of the mountain. 
Exodus24:18 Moses entered the cloud as he went on up the mountain. He stayed on the mountain for 40 days and 40 nights. 
Exodus25:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus25:2 Tell the people of Israel to bring me an offering. You must receive the offering for me from all whose hearts move them to give. 
Exodus25:3 Here are the offerings you must receive from them. gold, silver and bronze" 
Exodus25:4 blue, purple and bright red yarn and fine linen goat hair" 
Exodus25:5 ram skins that are dyed red the hides of sea cows acacia wood 
Exodus25:6 olive oil for the lights spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet-smelling incense 
Exodus25:7 onyx stones and other jewels for the linen apron and chest cloth 
Exodus25:8 Have them make a sacred tent for me. I will live among them. 
Exodus25:9 Make the holy tent and everything that belongs to it. Make them exactly like the pattern I will show you. 
Exodus25:10 Have them make a chest out of acacia wood. Make it three feet nine inches long and two feet three inches wide and high. 
Exodus25:11 Cover it inside and outside with pure gold. Put a strip of gold around it. 
Exodus25:12 Make four gold rings for it. Join them to its four bottom corners. Put two rings on one side and two rings on the other. 
Exodus25:13 Then make poles out of acacia wood. Cover them with gold. 
Exodus25:14 Put the poles through the rings on the sides of the chest to carry it. 
Exodus25:15 The poles must remain in the rings of the chest. Do not remove them. 
Exodus25:16 I will give you the tablets of the covenant. When I do, put them into the chest." 
Exodus25:17 Make its cover out of pure gold. The cover is the place where sin will be paid for. Make it three feet nine inches long and two feet three inches wide. 
Exodus25:18 Make two cherubim out of hammered gold at the ends of the cover. 
Exodus25:19 Put one cherub on each end of it. Make the cherubim as part of the cover itself. 
Exodus25:20 The cherubim must have their wings spread up over the cover. The cherubim must face each other and look toward the cover. 
Exodus25:21 Place the cover on top of the chest. I will give you the tablets of the covenant. Put them into the chest. 
Exodus25:22 The chest is the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. I will meet with you above the cover between the two cherubim that are over the ark. There I will give you all of my commands for the people of Israel. 
Exodus25:23 Make a table out of acacia wood. Make it three feet long, one foot six inches wide and two feet three inches high." 
Exodus25:24 Cover it with pure gold. Put a strip of gold around it. 
Exodus25:25 Also make a rim around it that is three inches wide. Put a strip of gold around the rim. 
Exodus25:26 Make four gold rings for the table. Join them to the four corners, where the four legs are." 
Exodus25:27 The rings must be close to the rim. They must hold the poles that will be used to carry the table. 
Exodus25:28 Make the poles out of acacia wood. Cover them with gold. Use them to carry the table. 
Exodus25:29 Make its plates and dishes out of pure gold. Also make its pitchers and bowls out of pure gold. Use the pitchers and bowls to pour out drink offerings. 
Exodus25:30 Put the holy bread on the table. It must be near my holy throne on the ark of the covenant at all times. 
Exodus25:31 Make a lampstand out of pure gold. Hammer out its base and stem. Its buds, blooms and cups must branch out from it." 
Exodus25:32 Six branches must come out from the sides of the lampstand. Make three on one side and three on the other. 
Exodus25:33 On one branch make three cups that are shaped like almond flowers with buds and blooms. Then put three on the next branch. Do the same with all six branches that come out from the lampstand. 
Exodus25:34 On the lampstand there must be four cups that are shaped like almond flowers with buds and blooms. 
Exodus25:35 One bud must be under the first pair of branches that come out from the lampstand. Put a second bud under the second pair. And put a third bud under the third pair. Make a total of six branches. 
Exodus25:36 The buds and branches must come out from the lampstand. The whole lampstand must be one piece that is hammered out of pure gold. 
Exodus25:37 Then make its seven lamps. Set them up on it so that they light the space in front of it. 
Exodus25:38 The trays and wick cutters must be made out of pure gold. 
Exodus25:39 Use 75 pounds of pure gold to make the lampstand and everything that is used with it. 
Exodus25:40 Be sure to make everything just like the pattern I showed you on the mountain. 
Exodus26:1 Make ten curtains out of finely twisted linen for the holy tent. Make them with blue, purple and bright red yarn. Have a skilled worker sew cherubim into the pattern." 
Exodus26:2 Make all of the curtains the same size. They must be 42 feet long and six feet wide. 
Exodus26:3 Join five of the curtains together. Do the same thing with the other five. 
Exodus26:4 Make loops out of blue strips of cloth along the edge of the end curtain in one set. Do the same thing with the end curtain in the other set. 
Exodus26:5 Make 50 loops on the end curtain of the one set. Do the same thing on the end curtain of the other set. Put the loops across from each other. 
Exodus26:6 Make 50 gold hooks. Use them to join the curtains together so that the holy tent is all one piece. 
Exodus26:7 Make a total of 11 curtains out of goat hair to put over the holy tent. 
Exodus26:8 Make all 11 curtains the same size. They must be 45 feet long and six feet wide. 
Exodus26:9 Join five of the curtains together into one set. Do the same thing with the other six. Fold the sixth curtain in half at the front of the tent. 
Exodus26:10 Make 50 loops along the edge of the end curtain in the one set. Do the same thing with the other set. 
Exodus26:11 Then make 50 bronze hooks. Put them in the loops to join the tent together all in one piece. 
Exodus26:12 Let the extra half curtain hang down at the rear of the holy tent. 
Exodus26:13 The tent curtains will be one foot six inches longer on both sides. What is left over will hang over the sides of the holy tent and cover it. 
Exodus26:14 Make a covering for the tent. Make it out of ram skins that are dyed red. Put a covering of the hides of sea cows over that. 
Exodus26:15 Make frames out of acacia wood for the holy tent. 
Exodus26:16 Make each frame 15 feet long and two feet three inches wide. 
Exodus26:17 Add two small wooden pins to each frame. Make the pins stick out so that they are even with each other. Make all of the frames for the holy tent in the same way. 
Exodus26:18 Make 20 frames for the south side of the holy tent. 
Exodus26:19 And make 40 silver bases to go under them. Make two bases for each frame. Put one under each pin that sticks out. 
Exodus26:20 For the north side of the holy tent make 20 frames 
Exodus26:21 and 40 silver bases. Put two bases under each frame. 
Exodus26:22 Make six frames for the west end of the holy tent. 
Exodus26:23 Make two frames for the corners at the far end. 
Exodus26:24 At those two corners the frames must be double from top to bottom. They must be fitted into a single ring. Make both of them the same. 
Exodus26:25 There will be eight frames and 16 silver bases. There will be two bases under each frame. 
Exodus26:26 Also make crossbars out of acacia wood. Make five for the frames on one side of the holy tent. 
Exodus26:27 Make five for the frames on the other side. And make five for the frames on the west, at the far end of the holy tent." 
Exodus26:28 The center crossbar must reach from end to end at the middle of the frames. 
Exodus26:29 Cover the frames with gold. Make gold rings to hold the crossbars. Also cover the crossbars with gold. 
Exodus26:30 Set up the holy tent in keeping with the plan I showed you on the mountain. 
Exodus26:31 Make a curtain out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. Have a skilled worker sew cherubim into the pattern." 
Exodus26:32 Hang the curtain with gold hooks on four posts that are made out of acacia wood. Cover the posts with gold. Stand them on four silver bases. 
Exodus26:33 Hang the curtain from the hooks. Place the ark of the covenant behind the curtain. The curtain will separate the Holy Room from the Most Holy Room. 
Exodus26:34 Put the cover on the ark of the covenant in the Most Holy Room. The cover will be the place where sin is paid for. 
Exodus26:35 Place the table outside the curtain on the north side of the holy tent. And put the lampstand across from it on the south side. 
Exodus26:36 For the entrance to the tent make a curtain out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. Have a person who sews skillfully make it." 
Exodus26:37 Make gold hooks for the curtain. Make five posts out of acacia wood. Cover them with gold. And make five bronze bases for them. 
Exodus27:1 Build an altar out of acacia wood. It must be four feet six inches high and seven feet six inches square. 
Exodus27:2 Make a horn stick out from each of its upper four corners. Cover the altar with bronze. 
Exodus27:3 Make all of its tools out of bronze. Make its pots to remove the ashes. Make its shovels, sprinkling bowls, meat forks, and pans for carrying ashes." 
Exodus27:4 Make a bronze grate for the altar. Make a bronze ring for each of the four corners of the grate. 
Exodus27:5 Put the grate halfway up the altar on the inside. 
Exodus27:6 Make poles out of acacia wood for the altar. Cover them with bronze. 
Exodus27:7 Put the poles through the rings. They will be on two sides of the altar for carrying it. 
Exodus27:8 Make the altar out of boards. Make it hollow. You must make it just as I showed you on the mountain. 
Exodus27:9 Make a courtyard for the holy tent. The south side must be 150 feet long. It must have curtains that are made out of finely twisted linen. 
Exodus27:10 The curtains must be hung on 20 posts and 20 bronze bases. The posts must have silver hooks and bands on them. 
Exodus27:11 The north side must also be 150 feet long. It must have curtains with 20 posts and 20 bronze bases. The posts must have silver hooks and bands on them. 
Exodus27:12 The west end of the courtyard must be 75 feet wide. It must have curtains with ten posts and ten bases. 
Exodus27:13 The east end of the courtyard, toward the sunrise, must also be 75 feet wide." 
Exodus27:14 On one side of the entrance you must put curtains that are 22 feet six inches long. Hang them on three posts. Each post must have a base. 
Exodus27:15 On the other side you must also put curtains that are 22 feet six inches long. Hang them on three posts. Each post must have a base. 
Exodus27:16 For the entrance to the courtyard, provide a curtain that is 30 feet long. Make it out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. Have someone who sews skillfully make it. Hang it on four posts. Each post must have a base." 
Exodus27:17 All of the posts that are around the courtyard must have silver bands and hooks. They must also have bronze bases. 
Exodus27:18 The courtyard must be 150 feet long and 75 feet wide. It must have curtains that are made out of finely twisted linen. They must be seven feet six inches high. The posts must have bronze bases. 
Exodus27:19 Make all of the other articles used for any purpose in the holy tent out of bronze. That includes all of the tent stakes for the tent and the courtyard. 
Exodus27:20 Command the people of Israel to bring you clear oil that is made from pressed olives. Use it to keep the lamps burning and giving light. 
Exodus27:21 Aaron and his sons must keep the lamps burning in the Tent of Meeting. The lamps will be outside the curtain that is in front of the tablets of the covenant. The lamps must be kept burning in my sight from evening until morning. That is a law for the people of Israel that will last for all time to come. 
Exodus28:1 Have your brother Aaron brought to you from among the people of Israel. His sons Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar must also be brought. They will serve me as priests." 
Exodus28:2 Make sacred clothes for your brother Aaron. When he is wearing them, people will honor him. They will have respect for him." 
Exodus28:3 Speak to all of the skilled workers. I have given them the skill to do this kind of work. Tell them to make clothes for Aaron. He will wear them when he is set apart to serve me as priest. 
Exodus28:4 They must make a chest cloth, a linen apron, an outer robe, an inner robe, a turban and a belt. They must make sacred clothes for your brother Aaron and his sons. Then they will serve me as priests." 
Exodus28:5 Have them use fine gold wire, and blue, purple and bright red yarn, and fine linen." 
Exodus28:6 Make the linen apron out of fine gold wire, and out of blue, purple and bright red yarn, and out of finely twisted linen. Have a skilled worker make it." 
Exodus28:7 It must have two shoulder straps joined to two of its corners. 
Exodus28:8 Its skillfully made waistband must be like it. The waistband must be part of the apron itself. Make the waistband out of fine gold wire, and out of blue, purple and bright red yarn, and out of finely twisted linen." 
Exodus28:9 Get two onyx stones. Carve the names of the sons of Israel on them. 
Exodus28:10 Arrange them in the order of their birth. Carve six names on one stone and six on the other. 
Exodus28:11 Carve the names of the sons of Israel on the two stones the way a jewel cutter carves a seal. Then put the stones in fancy gold settings. 
Exodus28:12 Connect them to the shoulder straps of the linen apron. The stones will stand for the sons of Israel. Aaron must carry the names on his shoulders as a reminder while he is serving me. 
Exodus28:13 Make fancy gold settings. 
Exodus28:14 Make two braided chains out of pure gold. Make them like ropes. Join the chains to the settings. 
Exodus28:15 Make a chest cloth that will be used for making decisions. Have a skilled worker make it. Make it like the linen apron. Use fine gold wire, and blue, purple and bright red yarn, and finely twisted linen." 
Exodus28:16 Make it nine inches square. Fold it in half. 
Exodus28:17 Put four rows of valuable jewels on it. Put a ruby, a topaz and a beryl in the first row." 
Exodus28:18 Put a turquoise, a sapphire and an emerald in the second row." 
Exodus28:19 Put a jacinth, an agate and an amethyst in the third row." 
Exodus28:20 And put a chrysolite, an onyx and a jasper in the fourth row. Put them in fancy gold settings." 
Exodus28:21 Use a total of 12 stones. Use one for each of the names of the sons of Israel. Each stone must be carved like a seal with the name of one of the 12 tribes. 
Exodus28:22 Make braided chains out of pure gold for the chest cloth. Make them like ropes. 
Exodus28:23 Make two gold rings for the chest cloth. Connect them to two corners of it. 
Exodus28:24 Join the two gold chains to the rings at the corners of the chest cloth. 
Exodus28:25 Join the other ends of the chains to the two settings. Join them to the shoulder straps on the front of the linen apron. 
Exodus28:26 Make two gold rings. Connect them to the other two corners of the chest cloth. Put them on the inside edge next to the apron. 
Exodus28:27 Make two more gold rings. Connect them to the bottom of the shoulder straps on the front of the apron. Put them close to the seam. Put them right above the waistband of the apron. 
Exodus28:28 The rings of the chest cloth must be tied to the rings of the apron. Tie them to the waistband with blue cord. Then the chest cloth will not swing out from the linen apron. 
Exodus28:29 When Aaron enters the Holy Room, he will carry the names of the sons of Israel over his heart. Their names will be on the chest cloth of decision. They will be a continuing reminder while he is serving me." 
Exodus28:30 Also put the Urim and Thummim into the chest cloth. Then they will be over Aaron's heart when he comes to serve me. In that way, Aaron will always have what he needs to make decisions for the people of Israel. He will carry the Urim and Thummim over his heart while he is serving me." 
Exodus28:31 Make the outer robe of the linen apron completely from blue cloth. 
Exodus28:32 In the center of the robe, make an opening for the head of the priest. Make an edge like a collar around the opening. Then it will not tear." 
Exodus28:33 Make pomegranates out of blue, purple and bright red yarn. Sew them around the hem of the robe. Sew gold bells between them." 
Exodus28:34 Sew a gold bell between every two pomegranates all around the hem of the robe. 
Exodus28:35 Aaron must wear the robe when he serves. The bells will jingle when he enters the Holy Room while he is serving me. And they will jingle when he goes out. Then he will not die. 
Exodus28:36 Make a plate out of pure gold. Carve words on it as if it were a seal. Carve the words set apart for the Lord. 
Exodus28:37 Tie the plate to the front of the turban with a blue cord. 
Exodus28:38 Aaron must wear it on his forehead all the time. He will be held accountable for all of the sacred gifts the Israelites set apart. Then I will accept the gifts. 
Exodus28:39 Make the inner robe out of fine linen. And make the turban out of fine linen. Have the belt made by a person who sews skillfully. 
Exodus28:40 Make inner robes, belts and headbands for Aaron's sons. When they are wearing them, people will honor them. They will also have respect for them." 
Exodus28:41 Put all of the clothes on your brother Aaron and his sons. Then pour olive oil on them and prepare them to serve me. Set them apart to serve me as priests. 
Exodus28:42 Make linen underwear that reaches from the waist to the thigh. 
Exodus28:43 Aaron and the priests who are in his family line must wear it when they enter the Tent of Meeting. They must wear it when they approach the altar to serve in the Holy Room. Then they will not be found guilty and die. For all time to come, that will be a law for Aaron and the priests who are in his family line." 
Exodus29:1 Here is what you must do to set Aaron and his sons apart to serve me as priests. Get a young bull and two rams. They must not have any flaws. 
Exodus29:2 Get fine wheat flour that does not have yeast in it. Use the flour to make bread, flat cakes that are mixed with olive oil, and wafers that are spread with oil." 
Exodus29:3 Put everything in a basket. Offer them along with the bull and the two rams. 
Exodus29:4 Then bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Wash them with water. 
Exodus29:5 Take the inner robe, the outer robe of the linen apron, the apron itself and the chest cloth. Dress Aaron in them. Take the skillfully made waistband and tie the apron on him with it." 
Exodus29:6 Put the turban on his head. Connect the sacred crown to the turban. 
Exodus29:7 Take the anointing oil and pour it on his head. 
Exodus29:8 Bring his sons and dress them in their inner robes. 
Exodus29:9 Put headbands on them. Tie belts on Aaron and his sons. The work of the priests belongs to them. This is my law that will last for all time to come. And that is how you must prepare Aaron and his sons to serve me. 
Exodus29:10 Bring the bull to the front of the Tent of Meeting. Have Aaron and his sons place their hands on its head. 
Exodus29:11 Kill it in my sight at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus29:12 Dip your finger into some of the bull's blood. Put it on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar. Pour the rest of it out at the base of the altar. 
Exodus29:13 Then take all of the fat around the inside parts. Take the covering of the liver. Take both kidneys with the fat on them. And burn all of it on the altar. 
Exodus29:14 But burn the bull's meat, hide and guts outside the camp. It is a sin offering." 
Exodus29:15 Get one of the rams. Have Aaron and his sons place their hands on its head. 
Exodus29:16 Kill it. Take the blood and sprinkle it against every side of the altar. 
Exodus29:17 Cut the ram into pieces. Wash the inside parts and the legs. Put them with the head and the other pieces. 
Exodus29:18 Then burn the whole ram on the altar. It is a burnt offering to me. It has a pleasant smell. It is an offering that is made to me with fire. 
Exodus29:19 Get the other ram. Have Aaron and his sons place their hands on its head. 
Exodus29:20 Kill it. Put some of its blood on the right ear lobes of Aaron and his sons. Put some on the thumbs of their right hands. Also put some on the big toes of their right feet. Then sprinkle blood against every side of the altar. 
Exodus29:21 Get some of the blood from the altar. Also get some of the anointing oil. Sprinkle both of them on Aaron and his clothes and his sons and their clothes. Then he and his sons and their clothes will be set apart to serve me. 
Exodus29:22 Here is what you must take from the second ram. Take the fat, the fat tail, the fat around the inside parts, the covering of the liver, both kidneys with the fat on them, and the right thigh. It is the ram you must use when you prepare the priests to serve me." 
Exodus29:23 Get a loaf, a flat cake that is made with oil, and a wafer. Take them from the basket of bread that was made without yeast. It is the one that is in front of me." 
Exodus29:24 Put everything in the hands of Aaron and his sons. Tell them to lift it up and wave it in front of me as a wave offering. 
Exodus29:25 Then take it from their hands. Burn it on the altar along with the burnt offering. It gives a smell that is pleasant to me. It is an offering that is made to me with fire. 
Exodus29:26 Get the breast of the ram that is used when you prepare Aaron to serve me. Wave it in front of me as a wave offering. It will be your share of the meat. 
Exodus29:27 Here are the parts of the second ram that belong to Aaron and his sons. You must set apart the breast that was waved and the thigh that was offered. 
Exodus29:28 It will always be the regular share from the people of Israel for Aaron and his sons. The people must give it to me from their friendship offerings. 
Exodus29:29 Aaron's sacred clothes will belong to his sons who will come after him. Then they can wear them when you anoint them and prepare them to serve me. 
Exodus29:30 The son who comes after him as priest must wear them seven days. He will come and serve in the Holy Room in the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus29:31 Get the ram that is sacrificed when you prepare Aaron and his sons to serve me. Cook the meat in a sacred place. 
Exodus29:32 Aaron and his sons must eat the ram's meat. And they must eat the bread that is in the basket. They must eat all of it at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus29:33 Those are the offerings to pay for their sins. They must eat them. The offerings must be made when Aaron and his sons are set apart and prepared to serve me. No one else can eat them. They are sacred. 
Exodus29:34 And if any parts of the ram or bread that are sacrificed when you prepare Aaron and his sons to serve me are left until morning, burn them up. They must not be eaten. They are sacred." 
Exodus29:35 Do everything I have commanded you to do for Aaron and his sons. Take seven days when you prepare them to serve me. 
Exodus29:36 Sacrifice a bull each day. It is a sin offering to pay for their sins. Make the altar pure. Pour olive oil on it to set it apart. 
Exodus29:37 Take seven days to make the altar pure. Set it apart. Then the altar will be a very holy place. Anything that touches it will be holy. 
Exodus29:38 Every day offer on the altar two lambs that are a year old. 
Exodus29:39 Offer one in the morning. Offer the other one when the sun goes down. 
Exodus29:40 Along with the first lamb, offer eight cups of fine flour. Mix it with a quart of oil that is made from pressed olives. Along with that, offer a quart of wine as a drink offering." 
Exodus29:41 Sacrifice the other lamb when the sun goes down. Sacrifice it along with the same grain offering and its drink offering as you do in the morning. It has a pleasant smell. It is an offering that is made to me with fire. 
Exodus29:42 For all time to come, the burnt offering must be sacrificed regularly. Sacrifice it at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting in my sight. There I will meet you and speak to you." 
Exodus29:43 There I will also meet with the people of Israel. My glory will make the place holy. 
Exodus29:44 So I will set the Tent of Meeting and the altar apart. And I will set Aaron and his sons apart to serve me as priests. 
Exodus29:45 Then I will live among the people of Israel. And I will be their God. 
Exodus29:46 They will know that I am the Lord their God. They will know that I brought them out of Egypt so I could live among them. I am the Lord their God. 
Exodus30:1 Make an altar for burning incense. Make it out of acacia wood. 
Exodus30:2 It must be one foot six inches square and three feet high. Make a horn stick out from each of its upper four corners. 
Exodus30:3 Cover the top, sides and horns with pure gold. Put a strip of gold around it." 
Exodus30:4 Make two gold rings for the altar below the strip. Put the rings across from each other. They will hold the poles that are used to carry it. 
Exodus30:5 Make the poles out of acacia wood. Cover them with gold. 
Exodus30:6 Put the altar in front of the curtain that hangs in front of the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. The ark will have a cover. It will be the place where sin is paid for. There I will meet with you. 
Exodus30:7 Aaron must burn sweet-smelling incense on the altar. He must do it every morning when he takes care of the lamps. 
Exodus30:8 He must burn incense again when he lights the lamps at sunset. Incense must be burned regularly to me. Do it for all time to come. 
Exodus30:9 Do not burn any other incense on the altar. Do not use the altar for burnt offerings or grain offerings. Do not pour drink offerings on it. 
Exodus30:10 Once a year Aaron must put the blood of a sin offering on its horns to make it pure. He must do it on the day Israel's sin is paid for. Do it for all time to come. The altar is a very holy place to me. 
Exodus30:11 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Exodus30:12 When you make a list of the people of Israel and count them, they must pay me for their lives at the time they are counted. Then a plague will not come on them when you count them." 
Exodus30:13 Each one who is counted must pay a fifth of an ounce of silver. It must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. The payment is an offering to me. 
Exodus30:14 Each one who is counted must be 20 years old or more. He must give an offering to me. 
Exodus30:15 When you make the offering, rich people must not give more than a fifth of an ounce of silver. And poor people must not give less. The offering you give to me will pay for your lives." 
Exodus30:16 Receive the money from the people of Israel. Use it for any purpose in the Tent of Meeting. It will remind the people that they are paying me for their lives. 
Exodus30:17 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Exodus30:18 Make a large bronze bowl for washing. Make a bronze stand to put it on. Place the bowl between the Tent of Meeting and the altar. Put water in it. 
Exodus30:19 Aaron and his sons must wash their hands and feet with water from it. 
Exodus30:20 When they enter the Tent of Meeting, they must wash with water so that they will not die. They will come to the altar to serve me. They will bring an offering that is made to me with fire." 
Exodus30:21 When they do, they must wash their hands and feet so that they will not die. For all time to come, that will be a law for Aaron and the priests who are in his family line.""" 
Exodus30:22 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. 
Exodus30:23 He said, ""Get some fine spices. Get 12 pounds eight ounces of liquid myrrh. Get six pounds four ounces of sweet-smelling cinnamon and the same amount of sweet-smelling cane." 
Exodus30:24 Also get 12 pounds eight ounces of cassia. All of the spices must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Get four quarts of olive oil. 
Exodus30:25 Have a person who makes perfume mix everything into a sacred anointing oil. It will smell sweet. 
Exodus30:26 Then anoint the Tent of Meeting and the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. 
Exodus30:27 Anoint the table for the holy bread and all of its articles. Anoint the lampstand and the things that are used with it. Anoint the altar for burning incense. 
Exodus30:28 Anoint the altar for burnt offerings and all of its tools. And anoint the large bowl together with its stand. 
Exodus30:29 You must set them apart so that they will be very holy. Anything that touches them will be holy. 
Exodus30:30 Anoint Aaron and his sons. Set them apart so that they can serve me as priests. 
Exodus30:31 Say to the people of Israel, 'This will be my sacred anointing oil for all time to come." 
Exodus30:32 Do not pour it on the bodies of any other men. Do not make any other oil in the same way. It is sacred. So you must think of it as sacred. 
Exodus30:33 Anyone who makes perfume in the same way and puts it on someone who is not a priest must be cut off from his people.' 
Exodus30:34 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Get some sweet-smelling spices. Get some gum resin, onycha and galbanum. Also get some pure frankincense. Make sure everything is in equal amounts." 
Exodus30:35 Have a person who makes perfume mix it all up into a sweet-smelling incense. It must have salt in it. It will be pure and sacred. 
Exodus30:36 Grind some of it into powder. Place it in front of the tablets of the covenant in the Tent of Meeting. There I will meet with you. The incense will be very holy to you. 
Exodus30:37 Do not make any incense for yourselves in the same way. Think of it as holy to me. 
Exodus30:38 Anyone who makes incense in the same way to enjoy its sweet smell must be cut off from his people. 
Exodus31:1 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. 
Exodus31:2 He said, ""I have chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri. Uri is the son of Hur. Bezalel is from the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus31:3 I have filled him with the Spirit of God. I have filled him with skill, ability and knowledge in all kinds of crafts." 
Exodus31:4 He can make beautiful patterns in gold, silver and bronze." 
Exodus31:5 He can cut and set stones. He can work with wood. In fact, he can work in all kinds of crafts." 
Exodus31:6 I have also appointed Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, to help him. Oholiab is from the tribe of Dan. ""I have given ability to all of the skilled workers. They can make everything I have commanded you to make. Here is the complete list." 
Exodus31:7 the Tent of Meeting the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept the cover for the ark 
Exodus31:8 the table for the holy bread and its articles the pure gold lampstand and everything that is used with it the altar for burning incense 
Exodus31:9 the altar for burnt offerings and all of its tools the large bowl with its stand 
Exodus31:10 the sacred clothes for Aaron the priest the clothes for his sons when they serve as priests 
Exodus31:11 the anointing oil the sweet-smelling incense for the Holy Room The skilled workers must make them just as I commanded you. 
Exodus31:12 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. 
Exodus31:13 He said, ""Tell the people of Israel, 'You must always keep my Sabbath days. That will be the sign of the covenant I have made between me and you for all time to come. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I make you holy." 
Exodus31:14  'Keep the Sabbath day. It is holy to you. Those who misuse it must be put to death. Those who do any work on that day must be cut off from their people. 
Exodus31:15 Do your work in six days. But the seventh day is a Sabbath. You must rest on it. It is set apart for me. Those who work on the Sabbath day must be put to death. 
Exodus31:16  'The people of Israel must keep the Sabbath. They must celebrate it for all time to come. It will be a covenant that lasts forever. 
Exodus31:17 It will be the sign of the covenant I have made between me and the people of Israel forever.  'I made the heavens and the earth in six days. But on the seventh day I did not work. I rested.' 
Exodus31:18 The Lord finished speaking to Moses on Mount Sinai. Then he gave him the two tablets of the covenant. They were made out of stone. The words on them were written by the finger of God. 
Exodus32:1 The people saw that Moses took a long time to come down from the mountain. So they gathered around Aaron. They said to him, ""Come. Make us a god that will lead us. This fellow Moses brought us up out of Egypt. But we don't know what has happened to him.""" 
Exodus32:2 Aaron answered them, ""Take the gold earrings off your wives, your sons and your daughters. Bring the earrings to me.""" 
Exodus32:3 So all of the people took off their earrings. They brought them to Aaron. 
Exodus32:4 He took what they gave him and made it into a metal statue of a god. It looked like a calf. He shaped it with a tool. Then the people said, ""Israel, here is your god who brought you up out of Egypt.""" 
Exodus32:5 When Aaron saw it, he built an altar in front of the calf. He said, ""Tomorrow will be a feast day in the Lord's honor.""" 
Exodus32:6 So the next day the people got up early. They sacrificed burnt offerings and brought friendship offerings. They sat down to eat and drink. Then they got up to dance wildly in front of their god. 
Exodus32:7 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Go down. Your people you brought up out of Egypt have become very sinful." 
Exodus32:8 They have quickly turned away from what I commanded them. They have made themselves a statue of a god that looks like a calf. They have bowed down and sacrificed to it. And they have said, 'Israel, here is your god who brought you up out of Egypt.'" 
Exodus32:9 I have seen those people,"" the Lord said to Moses. ""They are stubborn." 
Exodus32:10 Now leave me alone. My anger will burn against them. I will destroy them. Then I will make you into a great nation. 
Exodus32:11 But Moses asked the Lord his God to show favor to the people. Lord,"" he said, ""why should your anger burn against your people? You used your great power and mighty hand to bring them out of Egypt." 
Exodus32:12 Why should the Egyptians say, 'He brought them out to hurt them. He wanted to kill them in the mountains. He wanted to wipe them off the face of the earth'? Turn away from your burning anger. Please take pity on your people. Don't destroy them!" 
Exodus32:13 Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac and Israel. You made a promise. You took an oath in your name. You said, 'I will make your children after you as many as the stars in the sky. I will give them all of this land I promised them. It will belong to them forever.' """ 
Exodus32:14 Then the Lord took pity on his people. He didn't destroy them as he had said he would. 
Exodus32:15 Moses turned and went down the mountain. He had the two tablets of the covenant in his hands. Words were written on both sides of the tablets, front and back." 
Exodus32:16 The tablets were the work of God. The words had been written by God. They had been carved on the tablets. 
Exodus32:17 Joshua heard the noise of the people shouting. So he said to Moses, ""It sounds like war in the camp.""" 
Exodus32:17 Joshua heard the noise of the people shouting. So he said to Moses, ""It sounds like war in the camp.""" 
Exodus32:18 Moses replied, ""It's not the sound of winning. It's not the sound of losing. It's the sound of singing that I hear.""" 
Exodus32:19 As Moses approached the camp, he saw the calf. He also saw the people dancing. So he burned with anger. He threw the tablets out of his hands. They broke into pieces at the foot of the mountain." 
Exodus32:20 He took the calf the people had made. He burned it in the fire. Then he ground it into powder. He scattered it on the water. And he made the people of Israel drink it. 
Exodus32:21 He said to Aaron, ""What did these people do to you? How did they make you lead them into such terrible sin?""" 
Exodus32:22 Please don't be angry,"" Aaron answered. ""You know how these people like to do what is evil." 
Exodus32:23 They said to me, 'Make us a god that will lead us. This fellow Moses brought us up out of Egypt. But we don't know what has happened to him.'" 
Exodus32:24 So I told them, 'Anyone who has any gold jewelry, take it off.' They gave me the gold. I threw it into the fire. And out came this calf!""" 
Exodus32:25 Moses saw that the people were running wild. Aaron had let them get out of control. The people had become a joke to their enemies. 
Exodus32:26 Moses stood at the entrance to the camp. He said, ""Anyone who is on the Lord's side, come to me."" All of the Levites joined him." 
Exodus32:27 Then he spoke to them. He said, ""The Lord, the God of Israel, says, 'Each man must put on his sword. Then he must go back and forth through the camp from one end to the other. Each man must kill his brother, friend and neighbor.' """ 
Exodus32:28 The Levites did as Moses commanded. About 3,000 of the people died that day." 
Exodus32:29 Then Moses said to the Levites, ""You have been set apart for the Lord today. You stood against your own sons and brothers. And he has blessed you this day.""" 
Exodus32:30 The next day Moses said to the people, ""You have committed a terrible sin. But now I will go up to the Lord. Maybe if I pray to him, he will forgive your sin.""" 
Exodus32:31 So Moses went back to the Lord. He said, ""These people have committed a terrible sin. They have made a god out of gold for themselves." 
Exodus32:32 Now please forgive their sin. But if you won't, then erase my name from the scroll you have written.""" 
Exodus32:33 The Lord replied to Moses, ""I will erase from my scroll only the names of those who have sinned against me." 
Exodus32:34 Now go. Lead the people to the place I spoke about. My angel will go ahead of you. But when the time comes for me to punish, I will punish them for their sin.""" 
Exodus32:35 The Lord struck the people with a plague. That's because of what they did with the calf Aaron had made. 
Exodus33:1 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Leave this place. You and the people you brought up out of Egypt must leave it. Go up to the land I promised with an oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I said to them, 'I will give it to your children after you.'" 
Exodus33:2 I will send an angel ahead of you. I will drive out the Canaanites, Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Exodus33:3 Go up to the land that has plenty of milk and honey. But I will not go with you. You are stubborn. I might destroy you on the way. 
Exodus33:4 When the people heard those painful words, they became sad and began to sob. No one put on any jewelry." 
Exodus33:5 The Lord had said to Moses, ""Tell the people of Israel, 'You are stubborn. If I went with you even for a moment, I might destroy you. Now take off your jewelry. Then I will decide what to do with you.' """ 
Exodus33:6 So the people took off their jewelry at Mount Horeb. 
Exodus33:7 Moses used to take a tent and set it up far outside the camp. He called it the tent of meeting. Anyone who wanted to ask the Lord a question would go to the tent of meeting that was outside the camp. 
Exodus33:8 When Moses would go out to the tent, all of the people would get up and stand at the entrances to their tents. They would watch Moses until he entered the tent." 
Exodus33:9 As Moses would go into the tent, the pillar of cloud would come down. It would stay at the entrance while the Lord spoke with Moses." 
Exodus33:10 The people would see the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance to the tent. Then all of them would stand and worship at the entrances to their tents. 
Exodus33:11 The Lord would speak to Moses face to face. It was like a man speaking to his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp. But Joshua, his young helper, didn't leave the tent. Joshua was the son of Nun." 
Exodus33:11 The Lord would speak to Moses face to face. It was like a man speaking to his friend. Then Moses would return to the camp. But Joshua, his young helper, didn't leave the tent. Joshua was the son of Nun." 
Exodus33:12 Moses said to the Lord, ""You have been telling me, 'Lead these people.' But you haven't let me know whom you will send with me. You have said, 'I know your name. I know all about you. And I am pleased with you.'" 
Exodus33:13 If you are pleased with me, teach me more about yourself. Then I can know you. And I can continue to please you. Remember that this nation is your people.""" 
Exodus33:14 The Lord replied, ""I will go with you. And I will give you rest.""" 
Exodus33:15 Then Moses said to him, ""If you don't go with us, don't send us up from here." 
Exodus33:16 How will anyone know that you are pleased with me and your people? You must go with us. How else will we be different from all of the other people on the face of the earth? 
Exodus33:17 The Lord said to Moses, ""I will do exactly what you have asked. I am pleased with you. And I know your name. I know all about you.""" 
Exodus33:18 Then Moses said, ""Now show me your glory.""" 
Exodus33:19 The Lord said, ""I will make all of my goodness pass in front of you. And I will announce my name, The Lord, in front of you. I will have mercy on whom I have mercy. And I will show love to those I love." 
Exodus33:20 But you can't see my face,"" he said. ""No one can see me and stay alive.""" 
Exodus33:21 The Lord continued, ""There is a place near me where you can stand on a rock." 
Exodus33:22 When my glory passes by, I will put you in an opening in the rock. I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by." 
Exodus33:23 Then I will remove my hand. You will see my back. But my face must not be seen. 
Exodus34:1 The Lord said to Moses, ""Cut out two stone tablets that are just like the first ones. I will write on them the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke." 
Exodus34:2 Be ready in the morning. Then come up on Mount Sinai. Meet with me there on top of the mountain. 
Exodus34:3 No one must come with you. No one must be seen anywhere on the mountain. Not even the flocks and herds must be allowed to eat grass in front of the mountain. 
Exodus34:4 So Moses carved out two stone tablets that were just like the first ones. Early in the morning he went up Mount Sinai. He carried the two tablets in his hands. He did as the Lord had commanded him to do. 
Exodus34:5 Then the Lord came down in the cloud. He stood there with Moses and announced his name, The Lord." 
Exodus34:6 As he passed in front of Moses, he called out. He said, ""I am the Lord, the Lord. I am a God who is tender and kind. I am gracious. I am slow to get angry. I am faithful and full of love." 
Exodus34:7 I continue to show my love to thousands of people. I forgive those who do evil. I forgive those who refuse to obey. And I forgive those who sin. But I do not let guilty people go without punishing them. I punish the children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren for the sin of their parents.""" 
Exodus34:8 Moses bowed down to the ground at once and worshiped. 
Exodus34:9 Lord,"" he said, ""if you are pleased with me, then go with us. Even though these people are stubborn, forgive the evil things we have done. Forgive our sin. And accept us as your people.""" 
Exodus34:10 Then the Lord said, ""I am making a covenant with you. I will do wonderful things in front of all of your people. I will do miracles that have never been done before in any nation in the whole world. The people you live among will see the things that I, the Lord, will do for you. And they will see how wonderful those things really are." 
Exodus34:11 Obey what I command you today. I will drive out the Amorites, Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites to make room for you." 
Exodus34:12 Be careful. Do not make a peace treaty with those who live in the land where you are going. They will be a trap to you. 
Exodus34:13 Tear down their altars. Smash their sacred stones. Cut down the poles they use to worship the goddess Asherah. 
Exodus34:14 Do not worship any other god. I am a jealous God. In fact, my name is Jealous." 
Exodus34:15 Be careful not to make a peace treaty with those who live in the land. They commit sin by offering sacrifices to their gods. They will invite you to eat their sacrifices. 
Exodus34:16 You will choose some of their daughters as wives for your sons. And those daughters will commit sin by worshiping their gods. Then they will lead your sons to do the same thing. 
Exodus34:17 Do not make statues of gods. 
Exodus34:18 Celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread. For seven days eat bread that is made without yeast, just as I commanded you. Do it at the appointed time in the month of Abib. You came out of Egypt in that month." 
Exodus34:19 Every male animal that is born first to its mother belongs to me. That includes your livestock. It includes herds and flocks alike. 
Exodus34:20 Sacrifice a lamb to buy back every male donkey that is born first to its mother. But if you do not buy the donkey back, break its neck. Buy back every oldest son. ""You must not come to worship me with your hands empty." 
Exodus34:21 Do your work in six days. But you must rest on the seventh day. Even when you are plowing your land or gathering your crops, you must rest on the seventh day." 
Exodus34:22 Celebrate the Feast of Weeks. Bring the first share of your wheat crop. Celebrate the Feast of Booths. Hold it in the fall. 
Exodus34:23 Three times a year all of your men must come to worship me. I am your Lord and King, the God of Israel." 
Exodus34:24 I will drive out nations ahead of you. I will increase your territory. Go up three times a year to worship me. While you are doing that, I will keep others from wanting to take any of your land for themselves. I am the Lord your God." 
Exodus34:25 Do not include anything that is made with yeast when you offer me the blood of a sacrifice. You must not keep any of the meat from the sacrifice of the Passover Feast until morning. 
Exodus34:26 Bring the best of the first share of your crops to my house. I am the Lord your God. Do not cook a young goat in its mother's milk. 
Exodus34:27 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""Write down the words I have spoken. I have made a covenant with you and with Israel in keeping with those words.""" 
Exodus34:28 Moses was there with the Lord for 40 days and 40 nights. He didn't eat any food or drink any water. The Lord wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant. Those words are the Ten Commandments. 
Exodus34:29 Moses came down from Mount Sinai. He had the two tablets of the covenant in his hands. His face was shining because he had spoken with the Lord. But he didn't realize it. 
Exodus34:30 Aaron and all of the people of Israel saw Moses. His face was shining. So they were afraid to come near him. 
Exodus34:31 But Moses called out to them. So Aaron and all of the leaders of the community came to him. And Moses spoke to them. 
Exodus34:32 After that, all of the people came near him. And he gave them all of the commands the Lord had given him on Mount Sinai." 
Exodus34:33 Moses finished speaking to them. Then he put a veil over his face. 
Exodus34:34 But when he would go to speak with the Lord, he would remove the veil. He would keep it off until he came out. Then he would tell the people what the Lord had commanded." 
Exodus34:35 They would see that his face was shining. So Moses would put the veil back over his face. He would keep it on until he went in again to speak with the Lord. 
Exodus35:1 Moses gathered the whole community of Israel together. He said to them, ""Here are the things the Lord has commanded you to do." 
Exodus35:2 You must do your work in six days. But the seventh day will be your holy day. It will be a Sabbath in the Lord's honor. You must rest on it. Anyone who does any work on it must be put to death. 
Exodus35:3 Do not even light a fire in any of your homes on the Sabbath day. 
Exodus35:4 Moses spoke to the whole community of Israel. He said, ""Here is what the Lord has commanded." 
Exodus35:5 Take an offering for the Lord from what you have. Those who want to can bring an offering to the Lord. Here is what they can bring. gold, silver and bronze" 
Exodus35:6 blue, purple and bright red yarn and fine linen goat hair" 
Exodus35:7 ram skins that are dyed red the hides of sea cows acacia wood 
Exodus35:8 olive oil for the lights spices for the anointing oil and for the sweet-smelling incense 
Exodus35:9 onyx stones and other jewels for the linen apron and the chest cloth 
Exodus35:10 All of the skilled workers among you must come. They must make everything the Lord has commanded 
Exodus35:11 for the holy tent and its covering. Here is what they must make. hooks frames crossbars posts bases 
Exodus35:12 the ark of the covenant the poles and cover for the ark the curtain that screens the ark 
Exodus35:13 the table for the holy bread the poles and all of the articles for the table the holy bread 
Exodus35:14 the lampstand for light and everything that is used with it the lamps and the olive oil that gives light 
Exodus35:15 the altar for burning incense the poles for the altar the anointing oil the sweet-smelling incense the curtain for the entrance to the holy tent 
Exodus35:16 the altar for burnt offerings with its bronze grate its poles and all of its tools the large bronze bowl with its stand 
Exodus35:17 the curtains of the courtyard with their posts and bases the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard 
Exodus35:18 the ropes and tent stakes for the holy tent and for the courtyard 
Exodus35:19 the sacred clothes for Aaron the priest the clothes for his sons when they serve as priests 
Exodus35:20 Then the whole community of Israel left Moses. 
Exodus35:21 Everyone who wanted to give offerings to the Lord brought them to him. The offerings were for the work on the Tent of Meeting, for the sacred clothes, and for any other purpose there." 
Exodus35:22 Every man and woman who wanted to give came. They brought gold jewelry of all kinds. They brought pins, earrings, rings and other jewelry. All of them gave their gold as a wave offering to the Lord." 
Exodus35:23 People brought what they had. They brought blue, purple or bright red yarn or fine linen. They brought goat hair, ram skins that were dyed red, or the hides of sea cows." 
Exodus35:24 Some brought silver or bronze as an offering to the Lord. Others brought acacia wood for any part of the work. 
Exodus35:25 All of the skilled women spun yarn with their hands. They brought blue, purple or bright red yarn or fine linen." 
Exodus35:26 All of the skilled women who wanted to spin the goat hair did so. 
Exodus35:27 The leaders brought onyx stones and other jewels for the linen apron and the chest cloth. 
Exodus35:28 They also brought spices and olive oil. They brought them for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the sweet-smelling incense." 
Exodus35:29 All of the men and women of Israel who wanted to bring offerings to the Lord brought them to him. The offerings were for all of the work the Lord had commanded Moses to tell them to do. 
Exodus35:30 Then Moses spoke to the people of Israel. He said, ""The Lord has chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri. Uri is the son of Hur. Bezalel is from the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus35:31 The Lord has filled him with the Spirit of God. He has filled him with skill, ability and knowledge in all kinds of crafts." 
Exodus35:32 He can make beautiful patterns in gold, silver and bronze." 
Exodus35:33 He can cut and set stones. He can work with wood. In fact, he can work in all kinds of arts and crafts." 
Exodus35:34 And the Lord has given both him and Oholiab the ability to teach others. Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, is from the tribe of Dan." 
Exodus35:35 The Lord has filled them with skill to do all kinds of work. They carve things and make patterns. They sew skillfully with blue, purple and bright red yarn and on fine linen. They use thread to make beautiful cloth. They have the skill to work in all kinds of crafts." 
Exodus36:1 Bezalel and Oholiab must do the work just as the Lord has commanded. So must every skilled worker to whom the Lord has given skill and ability. They must know how to do all of the work for every purpose connected with the sacred tent. And that includes setting it up. 
Exodus36:2 Then Moses sent for Bezalel and Oholiab. He sent for every skilled worker to whom the Lord had given ability and who wanted to come and do the work. 
Exodus36:3 They received from Moses all of the offerings the people of Israel had brought. They had brought the offerings for all of the work for every purpose connected with the holy tent. That included setting it up. The people kept bringing the offerings they chose to give. They brought them morning after morning. 
Exodus36:4 So all of the skilled workers who were working on the holy tent stopped what they were doing. 
Exodus36:5 They said to Moses, ""The people are bringing more than enough for doing the work the Lord commanded us to do.""" 
Exodus36:6 Then Moses gave an order. A message was sent through the whole camp. It said, ""No man or woman should make anything else and offer it for the holy tent."" And so the people were kept from bringing more offerings." 
Exodus36:7 There was already more than enough to do all of the work. 
Exodus36:8 All of the skilled workers made the holy tent. They made ten curtains out of finely twisted linen. They made them with blue, purple and bright red yarn. A skilled worker sewed cherubim into the pattern." 
Exodus36:9 All of the curtains were the same size. They were 42 feet long and six feet wide. 
Exodus36:10 The workers joined five of the curtains together. They did the same thing with the other five. 
Exodus36:11 Then they made loops out of blue strips of cloth along the edge of the end curtain in one set. They did the same thing with the end curtain in the other set. 
Exodus36:12 They also made 50 loops on the end curtain of the one set. They did the same thing on the end curtain of the other set. They put the loops across from each other. 
Exodus36:13 Then they made 50 gold hooks. They used them to join curtains together so that the holy tent was all one piece. 
Exodus36:14 The workers made a total of 11 curtains out of goat hair to put over the holy tent. 
Exodus36:15 All 11 curtains were the same size. They were 45 feet long and six feet wide. 
Exodus36:16 The workers joined five of the curtains together into one set. They did the same thing with the other six. 
Exodus36:17 Then they made 50 loops along the edge of the end curtain in the one set. They did the same thing with the other set. 
Exodus36:18 They made 50 bronze hooks. They used them to join the tent together all in one piece. 
Exodus36:19 They made a covering for the tent. They made it out of ram skins that were dyed red. They put a covering of the hides of sea cows over that. 
Exodus36:20 The workers made frames out of acacia wood for the holy tent. 
Exodus36:21 Each frame was 15 feet long and two feet three inches wide. 
Exodus36:22 The workers added two small wooden pins to each frame. The pins stuck out so that they were even with each other. The workers made all of the frames of the holy tent in the same way. 
Exodus36:23 They made 20 frames for the south side of the holy tent. 
Exodus36:24 And they made 40 silver bases to go under them. They made two bases for each frame. They put one under each pin that stuck out. 
Exodus36:25 For the north side of the holy tent they made 20 frames 
Exodus36:26 and 40 silver bases. They put two bases under each frame. 
Exodus36:27 The workers made six frames for the west end of the holy tent. 
Exodus36:28 They made two frames for the corners of the holy tent at the far end. 
Exodus36:29 At those two corners the frames were double from top to bottom. They were fitted into a single ring. The workers made both of them the same. 
Exodus36:30 So there were eight frames and 16 silver bases. There were two bases under each frame. 
Exodus36:31 The workers also made crossbars out of acacia wood. They made five for the frames on one side of the holy tent. 
Exodus36:32 They made five for the frames on the other side. And they made five for the frames on the west, at the far end of the holy tent." 
Exodus36:33 The center crossbar reached from end to end at the middle of the frames. 
Exodus36:34 They covered the frames with gold. They made gold rings to hold the crossbars. They also covered the crossbars with gold. 
Exodus36:35 They made the curtain out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. A skilled worker sewed cherubim into the pattern." 
Exodus36:36 The workers made four posts out of acacia wood for the curtain. They covered the posts with gold. They made gold hooks and four silver bases for the posts. 
Exodus36:37 For the entrance to the tent the workers made a curtain out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. A person who sewed skillfully made it." 
Exodus36:38 The workers made five posts with hooks for the curtains. They covered the tops of the posts and their bands with gold. And they made five bronze bases for them. 
Exodus37:1 Bezalel made the ark of the covenant out of acacia wood. It was three feet nine inches long and two feet three inches wide and high. 
Exodus37:2 He covered it inside and outside with pure gold. He put a strip of gold around it. 
Exodus37:3 He made four gold rings for it. He joined them to its four bottom corners. He put two rings on one side and two rings on the other. 
Exodus37:4 Then he made poles out of acacia wood. He covered them with gold. 
Exodus37:5 He put the poles through the rings on the sides of the ark to carry it. 
Exodus37:6 He made its cover out of pure gold. It was three feet nine inches long and two feet three inches wide. The cover is the place where sin is paid for. 
Exodus37:7 He made two cherubim out of hammered gold at the ends of the cover. 
Exodus37:8 He put one cherub on each end of it. 
Exodus37:9 He made the cherubim as part of the cover itself. The cherubim's wings spread up over the cover. The cherubim faced each other and looked toward the cover. 
Exodus37:10 The workers made the table out of acacia wood. It was three feet long, one foot six inches wide and two feet three inches high." 
Exodus37:11 They covered it with pure gold. They put a strip of gold around it. 
Exodus37:12 They also made a rim three inches wide around it. They put a strip of gold around the rim. 
Exodus37:13 They made four gold rings for the table. They joined them to the four corners, where the four legs were." 
Exodus37:14 The rings were close to the rim. They held the poles that were used to carry the table. 
Exodus37:15 The workers made the poles out of acacia wood. They covered them with gold. 
Exodus37:16 They made plates, dishes and bowls out of pure gold for the table. They also made pure gold pitchers to pour out drink offerings." 
Exodus37:17 The workers made the lampstand out of pure gold. They hammered out its base and stem. Its buds, blooms and cups branched out from it." 
Exodus37:18 Six branches came out from the sides of the lampstand. There were three on one side and three on the other. 
Exodus37:19 On one branch there were three cups that were shaped like almond flowers with buds and blooms. There were three on the next branch. There were three on all six branches that came out from the lampstand. 
Exodus37:20 On the lampstand there were four cups that were shaped like almond flowers with buds and blooms. 
Exodus37:21 One bud was under the first pair of branches that came out from the lampstand. A second bud was under the second pair. And a third bud was under the third pair. There was a total of six branches. 
Exodus37:22 The buds and branches came out from the lampstand. The whole lampstand was one piece that was hammered out of pure gold. 
Exodus37:23 The workers made its seven lamps out of pure gold. They also made its trays and wick cutters out of pure gold. 
Exodus37:24 They used 75 pounds of pure gold to make the lampstand and everything that was used with it. 
Exodus37:25 The workers made an altar for burning incense. They made it out of acacia wood. It was one foot six inches square and three feet high. A horn stuck out from each of its upper four corners. 
Exodus37:26 The workers covered the top, sides and horns with pure gold. They put a strip of gold around it." 
Exodus37:27 They made two gold rings below the strip. They put the rings across from each other. The rings held the poles that were used to carry it. 
Exodus37:28 The workers made the poles out of acacia wood. They covered them with gold. 
Exodus37:29 They also made the sacred anointing oil and the pure, sweet-smelling incense. A person who makes perfume made them." 
Exodus38:1 The workers made the altar for burnt offerings out of acacia wood. It was four feet six inches high and seven feet six inches square. 
Exodus38:2 They made a horn stick out from each of its four upper corners. They covered the altar with bronze. 
Exodus38:3 They made all of its tools out of bronze. They made its pots, shovels, sprinkling bowls, meat forks, and pans for carrying ashes." 
Exodus38:4 They made a bronze grate for the altar. They put the grate halfway up the altar on the inside. 
Exodus38:5 They made a bronze ring for each of the four corners of the grate. 
Exodus38:6 They made poles out of acacia wood. They covered them with bronze. 
Exodus38:7 They put the poles through the rings. The poles were on two sides of the altar for carrying it. The workers made the altar out of boards. They made it hollow. 
Exodus38:8 The workers made the large bronze bowl and its bronze stand. They made them out of the bronze mirrors that belonged to the women who served at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Exodus38:9 Next, the workers made the courtyard. The south side was 150 feet long. It had curtains that were made out of finely twisted linen." 
Exodus38:10 The curtains had 20 posts and 20 bronze bases. The posts had silver hooks and bands on them. 
Exodus38:11 The north side was also 150 feet long. Its curtains had 20 posts and 20 bronze bases. The posts had silver hooks and bands on them. 
Exodus38:12 The west end was 75 feet wide. It had curtains with ten posts and ten bases. The posts had silver hooks and bands on them. 
Exodus38:13 The east end, toward the sunrise, was also 75 feet wide." 
Exodus38:14 Curtains that were 22 feet six inches long were on one side of the entrance. They were hung on three posts. Each post had a base. 
Exodus38:15 Curtains that were 22 feet six inches long were also on the other side of the entrance to the courtyard. They were hung on three posts. Each post had a base. 
Exodus38:16 All of the curtains that were around the courtyard were made out of finely twisted linen. 
Exodus38:17 The bases for the posts were made out of bronze. The hooks and bands that were on the posts were made out of silver. Their tops were covered with silver. So all of the posts of the courtyard had silver bands. 
Exodus38:18 The curtain for the entrance to the courtyard was made out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. A person who sewed skillfully made it. It was 30 feet long. Like the curtains of the courtyard, it was seven feet six inches high." 
Exodus38:19 It had four posts and four bronze bases. Their hooks and bands were made out of silver. Their tops were covered with silver. 
Exodus38:20 All of the tent stakes of the holy tent were made out of bronze. So were all of the stakes of the courtyard that was around it. 
Exodus38:21 Here are the amounts of the metals that were used for the holy tent, where the tablets of the covenant were kept. Moses commanded the Levites to record the amounts. The Levites did the work under the direction of Ithamar. Ithamar was the son of the priest Aaron." 
Exodus38:22 Bezalel, the son of Uri, made everything the Lord had commanded Moses. Uri was the son of Hur. Bezalel was from the tribe of Judah." 
Exodus38:23 Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, helped Bezalel. Oholiab was from the tribe of Dan. He could carve things and make patterns. And he could sew skillfully with blue, purple and bright red yarn and on fine linen." 
Exodus38:24 The total weight of the gold from the wave offering was more than a ton. It was weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. The gold was used for all of the work that was done in connection with the sacred tent. 
Exodus38:25 The silver that was received from the men in the community who were listed and counted weighed four tons. It was weighed out in keeping with the weights used in the sacred tent. 
Exodus38:26 It amounted to a fifth of an ounce for each person. It was weighed out in keeping with the weights used in the sacred tent. The silver was received from the men who had been listed and counted. All of them were 20 years old or more. Their total number was 603,550." 
Exodus38:27 The four tons of silver were used to make the bases for the holy tent and for the curtain. The 100 bases were made from the four tons. Each base used more than 75 pounds of silver. 
Exodus38:28 The workers used 45 pounds to make the hooks for the posts, to cover the tops of the posts, and to make their bands." 
Exodus38:29 The bronze from the wave offering weighed two and a half tons. 
Exodus38:30 The workers used some of it to make the bases for the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. They used some for the bronze altar for burnt offerings and its bronze grate and all of its tools. 
Exodus38:31 They used some for the bases for the courtyard that was around the holy tent. They used some for the bases for the courtyard entrance. And they used the rest to make all of the tent stakes for the holy tent and the courtyard that was around it. 
Exodus39:1 The workers made clothes from the blue, purple and bright red yarn. The clothes were worn by those who served in the holy tent. The workers also made sacred clothes for Aaron. They made them just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:2 The workers made the linen apron out of fine gold wire, and out of blue, purple and bright red yarn, and out of finely twisted linen." 
Exodus39:3 They hammered out thin sheets of gold. They cut it into fine wire. They sewed it into the blue, purple and bright red yarn and fine linen. A skilled worker made it." 
Exodus39:4 The workers made shoulder straps for the apron. The straps were joined to two of its corners. 
Exodus39:5 Its skillfully made waistband was made like it. The waistband was part of the apron itself. It was made out of fine gold wire, and out of blue, purple and bright red yarn, and out of finely twisted linen. The workers made it just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:6 They put the onyx stones in fancy gold settings. They carved the names of the sons of Israel on them. They did it the way a person carves a seal. 
Exodus39:7 Then they connected them to the shoulder straps of the linen apron. The stones stood for the sons of Israel and were a reminder for them. The workers did those things just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Exodus39:8 Skilled workers made the chest cloth. They made it like the linen apron. They used fine gold wire, and blue, purple and bright red yarn, and finely twisted linen." 
Exodus39:9 The chest cloth was nine inches square. It was folded in half. 
Exodus39:10 They put four rows of valuable jewels on it. A ruby, a topaz and a beryl were in the first row." 
Exodus39:11 A turquoise, a sapphire and an emerald were in the second row." 
Exodus39:12 A jacinth, an agate and an amethyst were in the third row." 
Exodus39:13 And a chrysolite, an onyx and a jasper were in the fourth row. The workers put them in fancy gold settings." 
Exodus39:14 They used a total of 12 stones. There was one stone for each of the names of the sons of Israel. Each stone was carved like a seal with the name of one of the 12 tribes. 
Exodus39:15 The workers made braided chains out of pure gold for the chest cloth. They made them like ropes. 
Exodus39:16 They made two fancy gold settings and two gold rings. They connected them to two corners of the chest cloth. 
Exodus39:17 They joined the two gold chains to the rings at the corners of the chest cloth. 
Exodus39:18 They joined the other ends of the chains to the two settings. They joined them to the shoulder straps on the front of the linen apron. 
Exodus39:19 The workers made two gold rings. They connected them to the other two corners of the chest cloth. They put them on the inside edge next to the apron. 
Exodus39:20 They made two more gold rings. They connected them to the bottom of the shoulder straps on the front of the apron. They put them close to the seam right above the waistband of the apron. 
Exodus39:21 They tied the rings of the chest cloth to the rings of the apron with blue cord. That connected it to the waistband. Then the chest cloth would not swing out from the linen apron. The workers did those things just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Exodus39:22 The workers made the outer robe of the linen apron completely from blue cloth. The cloth was made by a skillful person. 
Exodus39:23 The workers made an opening like a collar in the center of the robe. They made an edge around the opening. Then it couldn't tear. 
Exodus39:24 They made pomegranates out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and finely twisted linen. They sewed them around the hem of the robe." 
Exodus39:25 They made bells out of pure gold. They sewed them around the hem between the pomegranates. 
Exodus39:26 They sewed a bell between every two pomegranates all around the hem of the robe. Aaron had to wear the robe when he served as priest. That's what the Lord commanded Moses. 
Exodus39:27 The workers made inner robes out of fine linen for Aaron and his sons. The linen cloth was made by a skillful person. 
Exodus39:28 The workers also made the turban out of fine linen. And they made the headbands and the underwear out of finely twisted linen. 
Exodus39:29 The belt was made out of finely twisted linen and blue, purple and bright red yarn. A person who sewed skillfully made it. The workers did those things just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:30 They made the plate out of pure gold. It was a sacred crown. They carved words on it as if it were a seal. They carved the words set apart for the Lord. 
Exodus39:31 Then they tied the plate to the turban with a blue cord. They did those things just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Exodus39:32 So all of the work on the holy tent, the Tent of Meeting, was completed. The people of Israel did everything just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Exodus39:33 Then they brought the holy tent to Moses along with everything that belonged to it. Here are the things they brought. hooks frames crossbars posts bases 
Exodus39:34 the covering of ram skins that were dyed red the covering of the hides of sea cows the curtain that screens the ark 
Exodus39:35 the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept the poles and cover for the ark 
Exodus39:36 the table for the holy bread with all of its articles the holy bread 
Exodus39:37 the pure gold lampstand with its row of lamps and everything that is used with it the olive oil that gives light 
Exodus39:38 the gold altar for burning incense the anointing oil the sweet-smelling incense the curtain for the entrance to the tent 
Exodus39:39 the bronze altar for burnt offerings with its bronze grate its poles and all of its tools the large bowl with its stand 
Exodus39:40 the curtains of the courtyard with their posts and bases the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard the ropes and tent stakes for the courtyard 
Exodus39:41 the sacred clothes for the priest Aaron the clothes for his sons when they serve as priests 
Exodus39:42 The people of Israel had done all of the work just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Exodus39:43 Moses looked over the work carefully. He saw that the workers had done it just as the Lord had commanded. So Moses gave them his blessing. 
Exodus40:1 Then the Lord said to Moses," 
Exodus40:2 Set up the holy tent, the Tent of Meeting. Set it up on the first day of the first month." 
Exodus40:3 Place in it the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. Screen the ark with the curtain. 
Exodus40:4 Bring in the table for the holy bread. Arrange the loaves of bread on it. Then bring in the lampstand. Set up its lamps. 
Exodus40:5 Place the gold altar for burning incense in front of the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. Put up the curtain at the entrance to the holy tent. 
Exodus40:6 Place the altar for burnt offerings in front of the entrance to the holy tent, the Tent of Meeting." 
Exodus40:7 Place the large bowl between the Tent of Meeting and the altar. Put water in the bowl. 
Exodus40:8 Set up the courtyard around the holy tent. Put the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard. 
Exodus40:9 Get the anointing oil. Anoint the holy tent and everything that is in it. Set apart the holy tent and everything that belongs to it. Then it will be holy. 
Exodus40:10 Anoint the altar for burnt offerings and all of its tools. Set the altar apart. Then it will be a very holy place. 
Exodus40:11 Anoint the large bowl and its stand. Set them apart. 
Exodus40:12 Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Wash them with water. 
Exodus40:13 Dress Aaron in the sacred clothes. Anoint him and set him apart. Then he will be able to serve me as priest. 
Exodus40:14 Bring his sons and dress them in their inner robes. 
Exodus40:15 Anoint them just as you anointed their father. Then they will be able to serve me as priests. They will be anointed to do the work of priests. That work will last for all time to come. 
Exodus40:16 Moses did everything just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:17 So the holy tent was set up. It was the first day of the first month in the second year. 
Exodus40:18 Moses set up the holy tent. He put the bases in place. He put the frames in them. He put in the crossbars. He set up the posts. 
Exodus40:19 He spread the holy tent over the frames. Then he put the coverings over the tent. Moses did it as the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:20 He got the tablets of the covenant. He placed them in the ark. He put the poles through its rings. And he put the cover on it. The cover was the place where sin is paid for. 
Exodus40:21 Moses brought the ark into the holy tent. He hung the curtain to screen the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. Moses did it as the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:22 He placed the table for the holy bread in the Tent of Meeting. It was on the north side of the holy tent outside the curtain. 
Exodus40:23 He arranged the loaves of bread on it in the sight of the Lord. Moses did it as the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:24 He placed the lampstand in the Tent of Meeting. It stood across from the table on the south side of the holy tent. 
Exodus40:25 He set up the lamps in the sight of the Lord. Moses did it as the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:26 He placed the gold altar for burning incense in the Tent of Meeting. He placed it in front of the curtain. 
Exodus40:27 He burned sweet-smelling incense on it. Moses did it as the Lord had commanded him. 
Exodus40:28 Then he put up the curtain at the entrance to the holy tent. 
Exodus40:29 He set the altar for burnt offerings near the entrance to the holy tent, the Tent of Meeting. He sacrificed burnt offerings and grain offerings on it. Moses did it as the Lord had commanded him." 
Exodus40:30 He placed the large bowl between the Tent of Meeting and the altar. He put water in the bowl for washing. 
Exodus40:31 Moses and Aaron and his sons used it to wash their hands and feet. 
Exodus40:32 They washed when they entered the Tent of Meeting or approached the altar. They did it as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Exodus40:33 Then Moses set up the courtyard around the holy tent and altar. He put up the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard. And so Moses completed the work. 
Exodus40:34 Then the cloud covered the Tent of Meeting. The glory of the Lord filled the holy tent. 
Exodus40:35 Moses couldn't enter the Tent of Meeting because the cloud had settled on it. The glory of the Lord filled the holy tent. 
Exodus40:36 The people of Israel continued their travels. When the cloud lifted from above the holy tent, they started out." 
Exodus40:37 But if the cloud didn't lift, they did not start out. They stayed until the day it lifted." 
Exodus40:38 So the cloud of the Lord was above the holy tent during the day. Fire was in the cloud at night. The whole community of Israel could see the cloud during all of their travels. 
Leviticus1:1 The Lord called out to Moses. He spoke to him from the Tent of Meeting. He said," 
Leviticus1:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose any one of you brings an offering to the Lord. You must bring an animal from your herd or flock." 
Leviticus1:3  'If a man brings a burnt offering from the herd, he must offer a male animal. It must not have any flaws. He must bring it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Then the Lord will accept it." 
Leviticus1:4  'The man must place his hand on the head of the burnt offering. Then the Lord will accept it in place of him. It will pay for his sin. 
Leviticus1:5 The young bull must be killed there in the sight of the Lord.  'Then the priests who are in Aaron's family line must bring its blood to the altar. They must sprinkle it against every side of the altar. The altar stands at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus1:6  'The skin must be removed from the animal that is brought for the burnt offering. Then the animal must be cut into pieces. 
Leviticus1:7  'The priests who are in Aaron's family line must build a fire on the altar. They must place wood on the fire. 
Leviticus1:8 Then they must place the pieces of the animal on the burning wood on the altar. The pieces include the head and the fat. 
Leviticus1:9  'The inside parts of the animal must be washed with water. The legs must also be washed. The priest must burn all of it on the altar.  'It is a burnt offering. It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus1:10  'If the offering is a burnt offering from the flock, it must be a male animal. It can be a sheep or a goat. It must not have any flaws." 
Leviticus1:11  'It must be killed at the north side of the altar in the sight of the Lord. The priests who are in Aaron's family line must sprinkle its blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus1:12  'The animal must be cut into pieces. The priest must place them on the burning wood on the altar. The pieces include the head and the fat. 
Leviticus1:13  'The inside parts must be washed with water. The legs must also be washed. The priest must bring all of it to the altar. He must burn it there.  'It is a burnt offering. It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus1:14  'If the offering to the Lord is a burnt offering of birds, it must be a dove or a young pigeon." 
Leviticus1:15  'The priest must bring it to the altar. He must twist its head off. Then he must burn the rest of the bird on the altar. Its blood must be emptied out on the side of the altar. 
Leviticus1:16  'The priest must remove the small bag inside the bird's throat. He must also remove what is in the bag. Then he must throw all of it to the east side of the altar. That is where the ashes are. 
Leviticus1:17 He must take hold of the wings of the bird and tear it open. But he must not tear it in two. Then the priest will burn it on the wood that is on the fire on the altar.  'It is a burnt offering. It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:1  'Suppose someone brings a grain offering to the Lord. Then his offering must be made out of fine flour. He must pour olive oil on it. He must also put incense on it. 
Leviticus2:2  'He must take it to the priests who are in Aaron's family line. A priest must take a handful of the fine flour and oil. He must mix it with all of the incense. Then he must burn that part on the altar. It will be a reminder that all good things come from the Lord. It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:3  'The rest of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and to the priests who are in his family line. It is a very holy part of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus2:4  'If you bring a grain offering that is baked in an oven, make it out of fine flour. It can be flat cakes that are made without yeast. Mix them with olive oil. Or it can be wafers that are made without yeast. Spread oil on them." 
Leviticus2:5 If your grain offering is grilled on a metal plate, make it out of fine flour. Mix it with oil. Make it without yeast." 
Leviticus2:6 Break it into pieces. Pour oil on it. It is a grain offering. 
Leviticus2:7 If your grain offering is cooked in a pan, make it out of fine flour and oil." 
Leviticus2:8  'Bring to the Lord your grain offering that is made out of all of those things. Give it to the priest. He must take it to the altar. 
Leviticus2:9 He must take out the part of the grain offering that reminds you that all good things come from the Lord. He must burn it on the altar. It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus2:10  'The rest of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and the priests who are in his family line. It is a very holy part of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus2:11  'Every grain offering you bring to the Lord must be made without yeast. You must not burn any yeast or honey in an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus2:12  'You can bring them to the Lord as an offering of the first share of the food you gather or produce. But they must not be offered on the altar as a pleasant smell. 
Leviticus2:13  'Put salt on all of your grain offerings. Salt stands for the lasting covenant between you and your God. So do not leave it out of your grain offerings. Add it to all of your offerings. 
Leviticus2:14  'Suppose you bring to the Lord a grain offering of the first share of your food. Then offer crushed heads of your first grain that have been cooked in fire. 
Leviticus2:15 Put olive oil and incense on it. It is a grain offering. 
Leviticus2:16  'The priest must burn part of the crushed grain and the oil. It will remind you that all good things come from the Lord. The priest must burn it together with all of the incense. It is an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus3:1  'Suppose someone brings a friendship offering. If he offers an animal from the herd, it can be either male or female. It must not have any flaws. He must offer it in the sight of the Lord." 
Leviticus3:2  'The man must place his hand on the animal's head. It must be killed at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Then the priests who are in Aaron's family line must sprinkle the blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus3:3  'Part of the friendship offering must be given to the Lord as an offering that is made with fire. It must include all of the fat that covers the inside parts or is connected to them. 
Leviticus3:4 It must include both kidneys with the fat on them next to the lower back muscles. It must also include the covering of the liver. All of it must be removed together with the kidneys. 
Leviticus3:5  'Then the priests who are in Aaron's family line must burn it on the altar. They must burn it on top of the burnt offering on the burning wood.  'It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus3:6  'If a man brings an animal from the flock as a friendship offering to the Lord, it can be either male or female. It must not have any flaws." 
Leviticus3:7 If he brings a lamb, he must offer it in the sight of the Lord." 
Leviticus3:8 The man must place his hand on the lamb's head. It must be killed there in front of the Tent of Meeting. Then the priests who are in Aaron's family line must sprinkle its blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus3:9 Part of the offering must be brought as a sacrifice that is made to the Lord with fire. It must include the lamb's fat and the entire fat tail cut off close to the backbone. It must include all of the fat that covers the inside parts or is connected to them. 
Leviticus3:10 It must include both kidneys with the fat on them next to the lower back muscles. It must also include the covering of the liver. All of it must be removed together with the kidneys. 
Leviticus3:11  'Then the priest must burn it on the altar as food. It is an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus3:12  'If a man brings a goat, he must offer it in the sight of the Lord." 
Leviticus3:13 The man must place his hand on its head. It must be killed there in front of the Tent of Meeting. Then the priests who are in Aaron's family line must sprinkle its blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus3:14  'Part of the offering must be brought as an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. It must include all of the fat that covers the inside parts or is connected to them. 
Leviticus3:15 It must include both kidneys with the fat on them next to the lower back muscles. It must also include the covering of the liver. All of it must be removed together with the kidneys. 
Leviticus3:16  'Then the priest must burn it on the altar as food. It is an offering that is made with fire. It has a pleasant smell. All of the fat belongs to the Lord. 
Leviticus3:17  'You must not eat any fat or any blood. That is a law that will last for all time to come. It applies no matter where you live.' 
Leviticus4:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus4:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose someone sins without meaning to. And that person does something the Lord commands us not to do." 
Leviticus4:3  'Suppose it is the anointed priest who sins. And suppose he brings guilt on the people. Then he must bring a young bull to the Lord. It must not have any flaws. He must bring it as a sin offering for the sin he has committed. 
Leviticus4:4 He must bring the bull to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting in the sight of the Lord. He must place his hand on its head. He must kill it there in the sight of the Lord. 
Leviticus4:5  'Then the priest must take some of the bull's blood. He must carry it into the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus4:6 He must dip his finger into the blood. He must sprinkle some of it seven times in the sight of the Lord. He must do it in front of the curtain of the Most Holy Room. 
Leviticus4:7  'Then the priest must put some of the blood on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar for burning incense. The incense has a sweet smell. The altar stands in front of the Lord in the Tent of Meeting. The priest must pour out the rest of the bull's blood at the bottom of the altar for burnt offerings. That altar stands at the entrance to the tent. 
Leviticus4:8  'He must remove all of the fat from the bull for the sin offering. It includes the fat that covers the inside parts or is connected to them. 
Leviticus4:9 It includes both kidneys with the fat on them next to the lower back muscles. It also includes the covering of the liver. He must remove all of it together with the kidneys. 
Leviticus4:10 He must remove it in the same way the fat is removed from an ox that is sacrificed as a friendship offering. Then the priest must burn all of it on the altar for burnt offerings. 
Leviticus4:11  'But the bull's hide must be taken away. So must all of its meat. So must its head and legs. And so must its inside parts and guts. 
Leviticus4:12 In other words, all of the rest of the bull must be taken away. The priest must take it outside the camp. He must take it to a place that is ""clean."" He must take it to the place where the ashes are thrown. There he must burn it in a wood fire on a pile of ashes." 
Leviticus4:13  'Or suppose the whole community of Israel sins without meaning to. They do something the Lord commands us not to do. Even if they are not aware of what they have done, they are guilty." 
Leviticus4:14  'But suppose they become aware of the sin they have committed. Then they must bring a young bull as a sin offering. They must offer it in front of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus4:15 The elders of the community must place their hands on the bull's head in the sight of the Lord. The bull must be killed in the sight of the Lord. 
Leviticus4:16  'Then the anointed priest must take some of the bull's blood into the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus4:17 He must dip his finger into the blood. He must sprinkle it seven times in the sight of the Lord. He must do it in front of the curtain. 
Leviticus4:18 He must put some of the blood on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar. The altar stands in front of the Lord in the Tent of Meeting. The priest must pour out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar for burnt offerings. That altar stands at the entrance to the tent. 
Leviticus4:19  'He must remove all of the fat from the bull. He must burn it on the altar. 
Leviticus4:20 He must do the same thing with that bull as he did with the bull for the sin offering. When he does, he will pay for the sin of the people. And they will be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:21  'Then he must take the bull outside the camp. He must burn it just as he burned the first bull. It is the sin offering for the whole community. 
Leviticus4:22  'Or suppose a leader sins without meaning to. If he disobeys any of the commands of the Lord his God, he is guilty." 
Leviticus4:23  'But suppose he is made aware of the sin he has committed. Then he must bring an offering. It must be a male goat. It must not have any flaws. 
Leviticus4:24 He must place his hand on the goat's head. He must kill it. He must do it at the place where the animals for burnt offerings are killed in the sight of the Lord. His offering is a sin offering. 
Leviticus4:25  'Then the priest must dip his finger into some of the blood of the sin offering. He must put it on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar for burnt offerings. He must pour out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar. 
Leviticus4:26  'He must burn all of the fat on the altar. He must burn it in the same way he burned the fat of the friendship offering. When he does, he will pay for the sin of the leader. And the leader will be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:27  'Or suppose someone in the community sins without meaning to. If he disobeys any of the Lord's commands, he is guilty." 
Leviticus4:28  'But suppose he is made aware of the sin he has committed. Then he must bring an offering for the sin he has committed. It must be a female goat. It must not have any flaws. 
Leviticus4:29 He must place his hand on the head of the animal for the sin offering. It must be killed at the place where the animals for burnt offerings are killed. 
Leviticus4:30  'Then the priest must dip his finger into some of the blood. He must put it on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar for burnt offerings. He must pour out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar. 
Leviticus4:31  'He must remove all of the fat in the same way the fat is removed from the friendship offering. He must burn it on the altar. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. When the priest burns the offering, he will pay for the sin of that person. And he will be forgiven." 
Leviticus4:32  'Suppose he brings a lamb as his sin offering. Then he must bring a female animal. It must not have any flaws. 
Leviticus4:33 He must place his hand on its head. He must kill it as a sin offering. He must do it at the place where the animals for burnt offerings are killed. 
Leviticus4:34  'Then the priest must dip his finger into some of the blood of the sin offering. He must put it on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar for burnt offerings. He must pour out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar. 
Leviticus4:35  'He must remove all of the fat in the same way the fat is removed from the lamb for the friendship offering. He must burn it on the altar on top of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. When he does, he will pay for the sin that person has committed. And he will be forgiven." 
Leviticus5:1  'Suppose a person has been called as a witness to something he has seen or learned about. Then if he does not tell what he knows, he has sinned. And he will be held accountable for it." 
Leviticus5:2  'Or suppose a person touches something that is not clean. It could be the dead bodies of wild animals or of livestock. Or it could be the dead bodies of creatures that move along the ground. Even though he is not aware that he touched them, he has become ""unclean."" And he is guilty." 
Leviticus5:3  'Or suppose he touches something unclean that comes from a human being. It could be anything that would make him unclean. Suppose he is not aware that he touched it. When he finds out about it, he will be guilty." 
Leviticus5:4  'Or suppose a person takes an oath and makes a promise to do something without thinking it through. It does not matter what he promised. It does not matter whether he took the oath without thinking about it carefully. And suppose he is not aware that he did not think it through. When he finds out about it, he will be guilty." 
Leviticus5:5  'When someone is guilty in any of those ways, he must admit he has sinned." 
Leviticus5:6 He must bring a sin offering to pay for the sin he has committed. He must bring to the Lord a female lamb or goat from the flock. The priest will sacrifice the animal. That will pay for the person's sin. 
Leviticus5:7  'Suppose he can't afford a lamb. Then he must get two doves or two young pigeons. He must bring them to the Lord to pay for his sin. One of them is for a sin offering. The other is for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus5:8  'He must bring them to the priest. The priest will offer the one for the sin offering first. He must twist its head. But he must not twist it off completely. 
Leviticus5:9  'Then he must sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering against the side of the altar. He must empty out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar. It is a sin offering. 
Leviticus5:10  'Then the priest will offer the other bird as a burnt offering. He must do it in the way the law requires. That will pay for the sin the person has committed. And he will be forgiven. 
Leviticus5:11  'But suppose he can't afford two doves or two young pigeons. Then he must bring eight cups of fine flour as an offering for his sin. It is a sin offering. He must not put olive oil or incense on it. That is because it is a sin offering. 
Leviticus5:12  'He must bring it to the priest. The priest must take a handful of it. He must burn that part on the altar. It will be a reminder that all good things come from the Lord. The priest must burn it on top of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. It is a sin offering. 
Leviticus5:13  'In that way the priest will pay for any of the sins the person has committed. And he will be forgiven. The rest of the offering will belong to the priest. It is the same as in the case of the grain offering.' 
Leviticus5:14 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus5:15 Suppose a person sins by breaking the law. And he does it without meaning to. He sins against me or my priests by refusing to give them one of the holy things that are set apart for them. Then he must bring me a ram from the flock. It must not have any flaws. It must be worth the required amount of silver. It must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. It is a guilt offering. It will pay for his sin. 
Leviticus5:16 He must also pay for the holy thing he refused to give. He must add a fifth of its value to it. He must give all of it to the priest. The priest will pay for the person's sin with the ram. It is a guilt offering. And he will be forgiven. 
Leviticus5:17 Suppose a person sins by doing something I command him not to do. Even though he does not know it, he is guilty. He will be held accountable for it." 
Leviticus5:18 He must bring to the priest a ram from the flock as a guilt offering. It must not have any flaws. And it must be worth the required amount of money. The priest will sacrifice the animal. That will pay for what the person has done wrong without meaning to. And he will be forgiven. 
Leviticus5:19 It is a guilt offering. He has been guilty of doing wrong against me. 
Leviticus6:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus6:2 Suppose a person sins by not being faithful to me. He does it by tricking his neighbors. He tricks them in connection with something they have placed in his care. He steals from them. Or he cheats them. 
Leviticus6:3 Or he finds something they have lost and then tells a lie about it. Or he goes to court. He takes an oath and tells a lie when he witnesses about it. Or he commits any other sin like those sins. 
Leviticus6:4 When he sins in any of those ways, he becomes guilty. He must return what he stole. He must give back what he took by cheating his neighbors. He must return what they placed in his care. He must return the lost property he found." 
Leviticus6:5 He must return anything he told a lie about when he witnessed in court. He must pay back everything in full. He must add a fifth of its value to it. He must give all of it to the owner on the day he brings his guilt offering. 
Leviticus6:6 He must bring his guilt offering to the priest to pay for his sin. It is an offering to me. He must bring a ram from the flock. It must not have any flaws. It must be worth the required amount of money. 
Leviticus6:7 The priest will sacrifice the ram to pay for the person's sin. He will do it in my sight. And the person will be forgiven for any of the things he did that made him guilty. 
Leviticus6:8 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus6:9 Give Aaron and the priests who are in his family line a command. Tell them, 'Here are some more rules for burnt offerings. The burnt offering must remain on the altar through the whole night. The fire on the altar must be kept burning until morning." 
Leviticus6:10  'The priest must put on his linen clothes. He must put on linen underwear next to his body. He must remove the ashes of the burnt offering that the fire has burned up on the altar. He must place them beside the altar. 
Leviticus6:11 Then he must take his clothes off and put others on. He must carry the ashes outside the camp to a place that is clean. 
Leviticus6:12  'The fire on the altar must be kept burning. It must not go out. Every morning the priest must add more wood to the fire. He must place the burnt offering on the fire. He must burn the fat of the friendship offerings on it. 
Leviticus6:13 The fire must be kept burning on the altar all the time. It must not go out. 
Leviticus6:14  'Here are some more rules for grain offerings. The priests who are in Aaron's family line must bring the grain offering to the Lord in front of the altar. 
Leviticus6:15  'The priest must take a handful of fine flour and olive oil. He must add to it all of the incense that is on the grain offering. He must burn that part on the altar. It will remind him that all good things come from the Lord. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Leviticus6:16  'Aaron and the priests who are in his family line will eat the rest of it. But they must eat it without yeast in a holy place. They must eat it in the courtyard of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus6:17 It must not be baked with yeast. The Lord has given it to the priests as their share of the offerings that are made to him with fire. It is very holy, just like the sin offering and the guilt offering." 
Leviticus6:18  'Any priests who are in Aaron's family line can eat it. It is their regular share of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. It is their share for all time to come. Anyone who touches those offerings will become holy.' 
Leviticus6:19 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus6:20 On the day each high priest who is in Aaron's family line is anointed, he must bring an offering to me. He must bring eight cups of fine flour as a regular grain offering. He must bring half of it in the morning. He must bring the other half in the evening." 
Leviticus6:21 Mix it with olive oil. Grill it on a metal plate. Break it in pieces. Bring it as a grain offering. It gives a smell that is pleasant to me. 
Leviticus6:22 The son of Aaron who will become the next high priest after him will prepare the grain offering. It is my regular share. It must be completely burned up. 
Leviticus6:23 Every grain offering a high priest offers must be completely burned up. It must not be eaten. 
Leviticus6:24 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus6:25 Speak to Aaron and the priests who are in his family line. Tell them, 'Here are some more rules for sin offerings. You must kill the animal for the sin offering in the sight of the Lord. Kill it in the place where the burnt offering is killed. It is very holy." 
Leviticus6:26 The priest who offers it will eat it. He must eat it in a holy place. He must eat it in the courtyard of the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus6:27  'Anyone who touches any of its meat will become holy. Suppose some of the blood is spilled on someone's clothes. Then you must wash them in a holy place. 
Leviticus6:28 Break the clay pot the meat is cooked in. But suppose you cook it in a bronze pot. Then you must scrub the pot and rinse it with water. 
Leviticus6:29  'Any male in a priest's family can eat the meat. It is very holy. 
Leviticus6:30  'But suppose some of the blood of a sin offering is brought into the Tent of Meeting. And that blood is brought into the Holy Room to pay for sin. Then that sin offering must not be eaten. It must be burned. 
Leviticus7:1  'Here are some more rules for guilt offerings. The guilt offering is very holy. 
Leviticus7:2 You must kill the animal for the guilt offering in the same place where you kill the animal for the burnt offering. Sprinkle its blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus7:3  'Offer all of its fat. It must include the fat tail and the fat that covers the inside parts. 
Leviticus7:4 It must include both kidneys with the fat on them next to the lower back muscles. It must also include the covering of the liver. Remove all of it together with the kidneys. 
Leviticus7:5 The priest must burn all of it on the altar. It is an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. It is a guilt offering. 
Leviticus7:6  'Any male in a priest's family can eat it. But he must eat it in a holy place. It is very holy. 
Leviticus7:7  'The same law applies to the sin offering and the guilt offering. Both of them belong to the priest who offers them to pay for sin. 
Leviticus7:8 The priest who offers a burnt offering for anyone can keep its hide for himself. 
Leviticus7:9  'Every grain offering that is baked in an oven belongs to the priest who offers it. So does every grain offering that is cooked in a pan or grilled on a metal plate. 
Leviticus7:10 Every grain offering belongs equally to all of the priests who are in Aaron's family line. That is true whether it is mixed with olive oil or it is dry. 
Leviticus7:11  'Here are some more rules for friendship offerings a person may bring to the Lord. 
Leviticus7:12  'Suppose he offers a friendship offering to show he is thankful. Then together with the thank offering he must offer flat cakes of bread. He must make them without yeast. He must mix them with olive oil. Or he must offer wafers that are made without yeast. He must spread oil on them. Or he must offer flat cakes that are made out of fine flour. He must add oil to it. He must work the flour and mix it well. 
Leviticus7:13  'He must bring another friendship offering along with his thank offering. It should be flat cakes of bread that are made with yeast. 
Leviticus7:14 He must bring one of each kind of bread as an offering. One kind is made with yeast. The other is not. Both of them are a gift to the Lord. They belong to the priest who sprinkles the blood of the friendship offerings. 
Leviticus7:15  'The person must eat the meat from his thank offering on the day he offers it. He must not leave any of it until morning. 
Leviticus7:16  'But suppose he brings a friendship offering to keep a promise he has made. Or suppose he brings an offering he chooses to give. Then he must eat the sacrifice on the day he offers it. But if anything is left over, he may eat it the next day." 
Leviticus7:17  'He must burn up any meat from the sacrifice that is left over until the third day. 
Leviticus7:18 Suppose he eats any meat from the friendship offering on the third day. Then the Lord will not accept the offering. He will not accept it as a gift from that person. It is not pure. If the person eats any of it, he will be held accountable for it." 
Leviticus7:19  'He must not eat meat that touches anything that is unclean. He must burn it up. Anyone who is clean may eat any other meat. 
Leviticus7:20  'But suppose a person is not clean and eats any meat from the friendship offering that belongs to the Lord. Then that person will be cut off from his people. 
Leviticus7:21  'Suppose a person touches something that is not clean. It does not matter whether it comes from a human being who is not clean. It does not matter whether it comes from an animal that is not clean. It does not matter whether it comes from something that is hated and is not clean. And suppose the person eats any of the meat from the friendship offering that belongs to the Lord. Then that person will be cut off from his people.' 
Leviticus7:22 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus7:23 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Do not eat any of the fat of cattle, sheep or goats." 
Leviticus7:24 Do not eat the fat of any animal that is found dead. Do not eat the fat of an animal that wild animals have torn apart. But you can use the fat for any other purpose. 
Leviticus7:25  'Suppose an animal has been sacrificed as an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. No one may eat its fat. If he does, he will be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus7:26  'No matter where you live, do not eat the blood of any bird or animal." 
Leviticus7:27 If anyone does, he will be cut off from his people.' """ 
Leviticus7:28 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus7:29 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose a person brings a friendship offering to the Lord. Then he must bring part of it as his special gift to the Lord." 
Leviticus7:30 He must bring it with his own hands. It is an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. He must bring the fat together with the breast. He must lift the breast up and wave it in front of the Lord as a wave offering. 
Leviticus7:31 The priest will burn the fat on the altar.  'But the breast belongs to Aaron and the priests who are in his family line. 
Leviticus7:32 Give the right thigh from your friendship offerings to the priest as a gift. 
Leviticus7:33 The priest who offers the blood and fat from the friendship offering must be given the right thigh. It is his share. 
Leviticus7:34  'I, the Lord, have taken the breast that is waved and the thigh that is given. I have taken them from the friendship offerings of the people of Israel. And I have given them to the priest Aaron and the priests who are in his family line. The offerings are their regular share from the people of Israel.' """ 
Leviticus7:35 That is the part of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire and given to Aaron and the priests who are in his family line. It was given to Aaron and his sons on the day they were set apart to serve the Lord as priests. 
Leviticus7:36 On the day they were anointed, the Lord commanded the people of Israel to give that part to them. For all time to come, it will be the regular share of Aaron and the priests who are in his family line." 
Leviticus7:37 Those are the rules for burnt offerings, grain offerings, sin offerings, guilt offerings and friendship offerings. They are also the rules for the offerings that are given when priests are being prepared to serve the Lord." 
Leviticus7:38 They are the rules the Lord gave Moses on Mount Sinai. He gave them on the day he commanded the people of Israel to bring their offerings to the Lord. That took place in the Sinai Desert. 
Leviticus8:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus8:2 Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Bring their clothes and the anointing oil. Bring the bull for the sin offering. Also bring two rams. And bring the basket with the bread that is made without yeast. 
Leviticus8:3 Then gather the whole community at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus8:4 Moses did just as the Lord had commanded him. All of the people gathered together at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus8:5 Moses said to the people, ""Here is what the Lord has commanded us to do.""" 
Leviticus8:6 Then Moses brought Aaron and his sons to the people. He washed Aaron and his sons with water. 
Leviticus8:7 He put the inner robe on Aaron. He tied the belt around him. He dressed him in the outer robe. He put the linen apron on him. He took the skillfully made waistband and tied the apron on him with it. He wanted to make sure it was securely tied to him. 
Leviticus8:8 Moses placed the chest cloth on Aaron. He put the Urim and Thummim in the chest cloth. 
Leviticus8:9 Then he placed the turban on Aaron's head. On the front of the turban he put the gold plate. It was a sacred crown. Moses did everything just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Leviticus8:10 Then Moses took the anointing oil and poured it on the holy tent. He also poured it on everything that was in it. That's how he set those things apart for the Lord. 
Leviticus8:11 He sprinkled some of the oil on the altar seven times. He poured oil on the altar and all of its tools. He poured it on the large bowl and its stand. He did it to set them apart. 
Leviticus8:12 He poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron's head. He anointed him to set him apart to serve the Lord. 
Leviticus8:13 Then Moses brought Aaron's sons to the people. He put the inner robes on them. He tied belts around them. He put headbands on them. He did everything just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Leviticus8:14 Then he brought the bull for the sin offering. Aaron and his sons placed their hands on its head. 
Leviticus8:15 Moses killed the bull. He dipped his finger into some of the blood. He put it on all of the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar. He did it to make the altar pure. He poured out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar. So he set it apart to make it pure. 
Leviticus8:16 Moses also removed all of the fat that was around the inside parts of the bull. He removed the covering of the liver. He took both kidneys and their fat. Then he burned all of it on the altar. 
Leviticus8:17 But he burned the rest of the bull outside the camp. He burned up its hide, its meat and its guts. He did it just as the Lord had commanded him." 
Leviticus8:18 Then Moses brought the ram for the burnt offering. Aaron and his sons placed their hands on its head. 
Leviticus8:19 Moses killed the ram. He sprinkled the blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus8:20 He cut the ram into pieces. He burned the head, the other pieces and the fat." 
Leviticus8:21 He washed the inside parts and the legs with water. He burned the whole ram on the altar as a burnt offering. It had a pleasant smell. It was an offering that was made to the Lord with fire. Moses did everything just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Leviticus8:22 Then he brought the other ram. It was sacrificed to prepare the priests for serving the Lord. Aaron and his sons placed their hands on its head. 
Leviticus8:23 Moses killed the ram. He put some of its blood on Aaron's right ear lobe. He put some on the thumb of Aaron's right hand. He also put some on the big toe of Aaron's right foot. 
Leviticus8:24 Then Moses brought Aaron's sons to the people. He put some of the blood on their right ear lobes. He put some on the thumbs of their right hands. He also put some on the big toes of their right feet. Then he sprinkled the rest of the blood against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus8:25 He removed the fat, the fat tail and all of the fat around the inside parts. He removed the covering of the liver. He removed both kidneys and their fat. And he removed the right thigh." 
Leviticus8:26 Then he took a flat cake of bread from the basket of bread that was made without yeast. The basket was in front of the Lord. Moses took a cake of bread that was made with olive oil. He also took a wafer. He put all of it on the fat parts of the ram and on its right thigh. 
Leviticus8:27 He put everything in the hands of Aaron and his sons. He told them to lift it up and wave it in front of the Lord as a wave offering. 
Leviticus8:28 Then Moses took it from their hands. He burned it on the altar on top of the burnt offering. It was the offering that was sacrificed to prepare the priests for serving the Lord. It had a pleasant smell. It was an offering that was made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus8:29 Moses also lifted the ram's breast up and waved it in front of the Lord as a wave offering. The breast was Moses' share of the ram that was sacrificed to prepare the priests for serving the Lord. Moses did everything just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Leviticus8:30 Then Moses took some of the anointing oil. He also took some of the blood from the altar. He sprinkled some of the oil and blood on Aaron and his clothes. He also sprinkled some on Aaron's sons and their clothes. That's how he set apart Aaron and his clothes. And that's how he set apart Aaron's sons and their clothes. 
Leviticus8:31 Then Moses spoke to Aaron and his sons. He said, ""Cook the meat at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Eat it there along with the bread from the basket of the offerings that are brought to prepare the priests for serving the Lord. Do it just as I commanded you. I said, 'Aaron and his sons must eat it.'" 
Leviticus8:32 Then burn up the rest of the meat and the bread. 
Leviticus8:33 Don't leave the entrance to the Tent of Meeting for seven days. Don't leave until the days that are required to prepare you for serving the Lord have been completed. Stay here for the full seven days. 
Leviticus8:34 The Lord commanded what has been done here today. It was done to pay for your sin. 
Leviticus8:35 Stay at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting for seven days. Stay here day and night. Do what the Lord requires. Then you won't die. That's the command the Lord gave me. 
Leviticus8:36 So Aaron and his sons did everything just as the Lord had commanded through Moses. 
Leviticus9:1 On the eighth day Moses sent for Aaron, his sons and the elders of Israel." 
Leviticus9:2 He said to Aaron, ""Bring a bull calf for your sin offering. Bring a ram for your burnt offering. They must not have any flaws. Offer them to the Lord." 
Leviticus9:3 Then speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Bring a male goat for a sin offering. Bring a calf and a lamb for a burnt offering. Both of them must be a year old. They must not have any flaws." 
Leviticus9:4 Bring an ox and a ram for a friendship offering. Sacrifice all of them to the Lord. Also bring a grain offering. Mix it with olive oil. Today the Lord will appear to you.' 
Leviticus9:5 The people got the things Moses commanded them to get. They took them to the front of the Tent of Meeting. The whole community came up close to the tent. They stood there in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus9:6 Then Moses said, ""You have done what the Lord has commanded. So the glory of the Lord will appear to you.""" 
Leviticus9:7 Moses said to Aaron, ""Come to the altar. Sacrifice your sin offering and your burnt offering. Pay for your sin and the sin of the people. Sacrifice the people's offering. Pay for their sin. Do just as the Lord has commanded.""" 
Leviticus9:8 So Aaron came to the altar. He killed the calf as a sin offering for himself. 
Leviticus9:9 His sons brought its blood to him. He dipped his finger into the blood. He put some on the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar. He poured out the rest at the bottom of the altar. 
Leviticus9:10 He burned the fat and the kidneys on the altar. He also burned the covering of the liver. All of those parts were from the sin offering. Aaron did just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Leviticus9:11 He burned up the meat and the hide outside the camp. 
Leviticus9:12 Then he killed the animal for the burnt offering. His sons handed him its blood. He sprinkled it against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus9:13 They handed him the burnt offering piece by piece. It included the animal's head. Aaron burned everything on the altar. 
Leviticus9:14 He washed the inside parts and the legs. He burned them on top of the burnt offering on the altar. 
Leviticus9:15 Then Aaron brought the people's offering. He took the goat for their sin offering and killed it. He offered it for a sin offering. He did just as he had done with his own sin offering. 
Leviticus9:16 He brought the animal for the burnt offering. He offered it in the way the law requires. 
Leviticus9:17 He also brought the grain offering. He took a handful of it and burned it on the altar. It was in addition to that morning's burnt offering. 
Leviticus9:18 Aaron killed the ox and the ram as the friendship offering for the people. His sons handed him the blood. He sprinkled it against every side of the altar. 
Leviticus9:19 His sons also brought the fat parts of the ox and the ram. They included the fat tail and the layer of fat. They also included the kidneys and the covering of the liver. 
Leviticus9:20 Aaron's sons placed everything on the breasts of the animals. Aaron burned the fat on the altar. 
Leviticus9:21 He lifted up the breasts and the right thigh and waved them in front of the Lord as a wave offering. He did it just as Moses had commanded. 
Leviticus9:22 Then Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people. He gave them a blessing. He had already sacrificed the sin offering, the burnt offering and the friendship offering. So he stepped down from the altar." 
Leviticus9:23 Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting. When they came out, they gave the people a blessing. The glory of the Lord appeared to all of the people." 
Leviticus9:24 The Lord sent fire on the altar. It burned up the burnt offering and the fat parts that were on it. All of the people saw it. Then they shouted for joy. They fell with their faces to the ground. 
Leviticus10:1 Nadab and Abihu were two of Aaron's sons. They got their shallow cups for burning incense. They put fire in them. They added incense to it. They made an offering to the Lord by using fire that wasn't allowed. They did it against his command. 
Leviticus10:2 So the Lord sent fire on them. It burned them up. They died in front of the Lord. 
Leviticus10:3 Then Moses spoke to Aaron. He said, ""That's what the Lord was talking about when he said, "" 'Among those who approach me I will show that I am holy. In the sight of all of the people I will be honored.' ""So Aaron remained silent." 
Leviticus10:4 Moses sent for Mishael and Elzaphan. They were sons of Aaron's uncle Uzziel. Moses said to them, ""Come here. Carry the bodies of your cousins outside the camp. Take them away from in front of the Holy Room.""" 
Leviticus10:5 So they came and carried them outside the camp. It was just as Moses had ordered. The bodies of Nadab and Abihu still had their inner robes on them. 
Leviticus10:6 Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar. They were Aaron's sons. Moses said, ""Don't let your hair hang loose. Don't tear your clothes. If you do, you will die. And the Lord will be angry with the whole community. ""But all of the people of Israel are allowed to show they are sad. They are your relatives. They can sob over those the Lord has destroyed with fire." 
Leviticus10:7 Don't leave the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. If you do, you will die. That's because the Lord's anointing oil has made you holy."" So they did what Moses told them to do." 
Leviticus10:8 Then the Lord spoke to Aaron. He said," 
Leviticus10:9 You and your sons must not drink any kind of wine when you go into the Tent of Meeting. If you do, you will die. That is a law that will last for all time to come." 
Leviticus10:10 You must be able to tell the difference between what is holy and what is not. You must be able to tell the difference between what is 'clean' and what is not. 
Leviticus10:11 You must teach the people of Israel all of the rules I have given them through Moses. 
Leviticus10:12 Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar. They were Aaron's two remaining sons. Moses said, ""Take the grain offering that is left over from the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. It is very holy. Make bread without yeast from it. Eat it beside the altar." 
Leviticus10:13 Eat it in a holy place. It's your share and your sons' share of the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. Those rules are in keeping with the command the Lord gave me. 
Leviticus10:14 But you and your sons and your daughters can eat the breast that was waved. You can also eat the thigh that was offered. Eat them in a place that is 'clean.' They have been given to you and your children. They are your share of the friendship offerings the people of Israel bring. 
Leviticus10:15 The thigh that was offered must be brought together with the fat parts of the offerings that are made with fire. The breast that was waved must be brought in the same way. All of it must be lifted up and waved in front of the Lord as a wave offering. It will be the regular share for you and your children. That's what the Lord has commanded. 
Leviticus10:16 Moses asked about the goat that was brought as the sin offering. He found out that it had been burned up. So he became angry with Eleazar and Ithamar. They were Aaron's two remaining sons. Moses asked them," 
Leviticus10:17 Why didn't you eat the sin offering in a place that is near the Holy Room? The offering is very holy. It was given to you to take the people's guilt away. It paid for their sin in the sight of the Lord. 
Leviticus10:18 The blood of the offering wasn't taken into the Holy Room. So you should have eaten the goat in a place that is near the Holy Room. That's what I commanded. 
Leviticus10:19 Aaron replied to Moses, ""Today the people sacrificed their sin offering to the Lord. They also sacrificed their burnt offerings to him. But a terrible thing has happened to me. Two of my sons have died. Would the Lord have been pleased if I had eaten the sin offering today?""" 
Leviticus10:20 When Moses heard that, he was satisfied." 
Leviticus11:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said to them," 
Leviticus11:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Many animals live on land. Here are the only ones you can eat." 
Leviticus11:3 You can eat any animal that has hoofs that are separated completely in two. But it must also chew the cud. 
Leviticus11:4  'Some animals only chew the cud. Some only have hoofs that are separated in two. You must not eat those animals.  'Camels chew the cud. But their hoofs are not separated in two. So they are not clean for you. 
Leviticus11:5  'Rock badgers chew the cud. But their hoofs are not separated in two. So they are not clean for you. 
Leviticus11:6  'Rabbits chew the cud. But their hoofs are not separated in two. So they are not clean for you. 
Leviticus11:7  'Pigs have hoofs that are separated completely in two. But they do not chew the cud. So they are not clean for you. 
Leviticus11:8  'You must not eat the meat of those animals. You must not even touch their dead bodies. They are not clean for you. 
Leviticus11:9  'Many creatures live in the water of the oceans and streams. You can eat all of those that have fins and scales. 
Leviticus11:10  'But be sure to avoid all of the creatures in the oceans or streams that do not have fins and scales. That includes all of those that move together in groups and all of those that do not. 
Leviticus11:11 Be sure to avoid them. Do not eat their meat. Do not even touch their dead bodies. 
Leviticus11:12 Be sure to avoid everything that lives in the water that does not have fins and scales. 
Leviticus11:13  'Here are the birds you must be sure to avoid. Do not eat them. Be sure to avoid them.  'They include eagles, vultures and black vultures." 
Leviticus11:14 They include red kites and all kinds of black kites. 
Leviticus11:15 They include all kinds of ravens. 
Leviticus11:16 They include horned owls, screech owls, gulls and all kinds of hawks." 
Leviticus11:17  'They include little owls, cormorants and great owls." 
Leviticus11:18 They include white owls, desert owls and ospreys." 
Leviticus11:19 They also include storks, hoopoes, bats and all kinds of herons." 
Leviticus11:20  'Be sure to avoid every flying insect that walks on all fours. 
Leviticus11:21 But you can eat some creatures that have wings and walk on all fours. Their legs have joints so they can hop on the ground. 
Leviticus11:22  'Here are the insects you can eat. You can eat all kinds of locusts, katydids, crickets and grasshoppers." 
Leviticus11:23 But be sure to avoid every other creature that has wings and four legs. 
Leviticus11:24  'You will make yourselves unclean if you eat those things. If you touch their dead bodies, you will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus11:25 If a person picks up one of their dead bodies, he must wash his clothes. He will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus11:26  'Suppose an animal has hoofs that are not separated completely in two. Or suppose an animal does not chew the cud. Then those animals are not clean for you. If you touch the dead body of any of them, you will not be ""clean.""" 
Leviticus11:27  'Many animals walk on all fours. But those that walk on their paws are not clean for you. Anyone who touches their dead bodies will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus11:28 If he picks up their dead bodies, he must wash his clothes. He will be ""unclean"" until evening. They are not ""clean"" for him." 
Leviticus11:29  'Many animals move around on the ground. Here are the ones that are not clean for you. They include weasels, rats and all kinds of large lizards." 
Leviticus11:30 They also include geckos, monitor lizards, wall lizards, skinks and chameleons." 
Leviticus11:31 Those are the animals that move around on the ground that are not clean for you. If you touch their dead bodies, you will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus11:32  'Suppose one of them dies and falls on something. Then that article will not be clean. It does not matter what it is used for. It does not matter whether it is made out of wood, cloth, hide or black cloth. Put it in water. It will be ""unclean"" until evening. After that, it will be ""clean.""" 
Leviticus11:33  'Suppose one of those animals falls into a clay pot. Then everything that is in the pot will be unclean. You must break the pot. 
Leviticus11:34 Any food that could be eaten but has water on it that came from that pot is not clean. And any liquid that could be drunk from it is not clean. 
Leviticus11:35  'Anything that the dead body of one of those animals falls on becomes unclean. If it is an oven or cooking pot, break it. It is ""unclean."" And you must consider it ""unclean.""" 
Leviticus11:36  'But a spring or a well for collecting water remains clean. That is true even if the dead body of one of those animals falls into it. But anyone who touches the dead body is not clean. 
Leviticus11:37  'If the dead body falls on any seeds that have not been planted yet, the seeds remain ""clean.""" 
Leviticus11:38 But suppose water has already been put on the seeds. And suppose the dead body falls on them. Then they are not clean for you. 
Leviticus11:39  'Suppose an animal you are allowed to eat dies. If anyone touches its dead body, he will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus11:40 If he eats part of the dead body, he must wash his clothes. He will be ""unclean"" until evening. If he picks up the dead body, he must wash his clothes. He will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus11:41  'Be sure to avoid every creature that moves around on the ground. Do not eat it. 
Leviticus11:42 Do not eat any of those creatures. It does not matter whether they move on their bellies. It does not matter whether they walk on all fours or on many feet. Be sure to avoid them. 
Leviticus11:43 Do not make yourselves unclean by eating any of those animals. Do not make yourselves unclean because of them. Do not let them make you unclean. 
Leviticus11:44  'I am the Lord your God. Set yourselves apart. Be holy, because I am holy. Do not make yourselves ""unclean"" by eating any creatures that move around on the ground." 
Leviticus11:45 I am the Lord. I brought you up out of Egypt to be your God. So be holy, because I am holy." 
Leviticus11:46  'Those are the rules about animals and birds. Those are the rules about every living thing that moves in the water. And those are the rules about every creature that moves around on the ground. 
Leviticus11:47 You must be able to tell the difference between what is clean and what is not. You must also be able to tell the difference between the living creatures that can be eaten and those that can't.' 
Leviticus12:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus12:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose a woman becomes pregnant and has a baby boy. Then she will be ""unclean"" for seven days. It is the same as when she is ""unclean"" during her monthly period." 
Leviticus12:3 On the eighth day the boy must be circumcised. 
Leviticus12:4  'After that, the woman must wait for 33 days to be made pure from her bleeding. She must not touch anything that is sacred until the 33 days are over. During that time she must not go to the sacred tent." 
Leviticus12:5  'But suppose she has a baby girl. Then she will be unclean for two weeks. It is the same as during her period. After the two weeks, she must wait for 66 days to be made pure from her bleeding." 
Leviticus12:6  'After she has waited the required number of days to be made pure, she must bring two offerings. She must take them to the priest at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. She must bring a lamb that is a year old for a burnt offering. She must also bring a young pigeon or a dove for a sin offering." 
Leviticus12:7 The priest must offer them to the Lord. They will pay for her sin. Then she will be clean from her bleeding.  'Those are the rules for a woman who has a baby boy or girl. 
Leviticus12:8  'But suppose she can't afford a lamb. Then she must bring two doves or two young pigeons. One is for a burnt offering. The other is for a sin offering. The priest will sacrifice those offerings. That will pay for her sin. And she will be clean. ' 
Leviticus13:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He told them to say to the people," 
Leviticus13:2 Suppose someone's skin has a swelling or a rash or a bright spot. And suppose it could become a skin disease. Then he must be brought to the priest Aaron. Or he must be brought to a priest who is in Aaron's family line. 
Leviticus13:3 The priest must look carefully at the sore on the person's skin. He must see whether the hair in the sore has turned white. He must also see whether the sore seems to be under the skin. If the sore is white and is under the skin, it is a skin disease. When the priest looks that person over carefully, he must announce that the person is 'unclean.'" 
Leviticus13:4 Suppose the spot on the skin is white but does not seem to be under the skin. And suppose the hair in the spot has not turned white. Then the priest must make the person stay away from everyone else for seven days. 
Leviticus13:5 On the seventh day the priest must look carefully at the sore again. Suppose it has not changed and has not spread in the skin. Then the priest must make the person stay away from everyone else for another seven days. 
Leviticus13:6 On the seventh day the priest must look carefully at the sore again. If it has faded and has not spread, he must announce that the person is 'clean.' It is only a rash. He must wash his clothes. He will be 'clean.'" 
Leviticus13:7 But suppose the rash spreads in the skin after he has shown himself to the priest a second time. Then he must appear in front of the priest again. 
Leviticus13:8 The priest must look carefully at the sore. If the rash has spread, he must announce that the person is 'unclean.' He has a skin disease." 
Leviticus13:9 When anyone has a skin disease, he must be brought to the priest." 
Leviticus13:10 The priest must look him over carefully. Suppose there is a white swelling in the skin. Suppose it has turned the hair white. And suppose there are open sores in the swelling. 
Leviticus13:11 Then the person has a skin disease that will never go away. The priest must announce that he is 'unclean.' The priest must not make the person stay away from everyone else. He is already 'unclean.' 
Leviticus13:12 Suppose the disease breaks out all over his skin. And suppose it covers him from head to foot, as far as the priest can tell." 
Leviticus13:13 Then the priest must look him over carefully. If the disease has covered his whole body, the priest must announce that he is 'clean.' All of his skin has turned white. So he is 'clean.'" 
Leviticus13:14 But when open sores appear on his skin, he will not be 'clean.'" 
Leviticus13:15 When the priest sees the open sores, he must announce that he is 'unclean.' The open sores are not 'clean.' He has a skin disease." 
Leviticus13:16 But if the open sores change and turn white, he must go to the priest." 
Leviticus13:17 The priest must look him over carefully. If the sores have turned white, the priest must announce that the person is 'clean.' Then he will be 'clean.'" 
Leviticus13:18 Suppose someone has a boil on his skin and it heals. 
Leviticus13:19 And suppose a white swelling or shiny pink spot appears where the boil was. Then he must show himself to the priest. 
Leviticus13:20 The priest must look at the boil carefully. Suppose it seems to be under the skin. And suppose the hair in it has turned white. Then the priest must announce that the person is 'unclean.' A skin disease has broken out where the boil was. 
Leviticus13:21 But suppose that when the priest looks at the boil carefully, there is no white hair in it. The boil is not under the skin. And it has faded. Then the priest must make the person stay away from everyone else for seven days." 
Leviticus13:22 If the boil is spreading in the skin, the priest must announce that the person is 'unclean.' He has a skin disease." 
Leviticus13:23 But suppose the spot has not changed. And suppose it has not spread. Then it is only a scar from the boil. And the priest must announce that the person is 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:24 Suppose someone has a burn on his skin. And suppose a white or shiny pink spot shows up in the open sores of the burn. 
Leviticus13:25 Then the priest must look at the spot carefully. Suppose the hair in it has turned white. And suppose the spot seems to be under the skin. Then the person has a skin disease. It has broken out where he was burned. The priest must announce that the person is 'unclean.' He has a skin disease. 
Leviticus13:26 But suppose the priest looks at the spot carefully. Suppose there is no white hair in it. Suppose the spot is not under the skin. And suppose it has faded. Then the priest must make the person stay away from everyone else for seven days. 
Leviticus13:27 On the seventh day the priest must look him over carefully. If the spot is spreading in the skin, the priest must announce that the person is 'unclean.' He has a skin disease." 
Leviticus13:28 But suppose the spot has not changed. It has not spread in the skin. And it has faded. Then the burn has caused it to swell. The priest must announce that the person is 'clean.' It is only a scar from the burn. 
Leviticus13:29 Suppose a man or woman has a sore on the head or chin. 
Leviticus13:30 Then the priest must look at the sore carefully. Suppose it seems to be under the skin. And suppose the hair in the sore is yellow and thin. Then the priest must announce that the person is 'unclean.' The sore is an itch. It is a skin disease on the head or chin. 
Leviticus13:31 But suppose the priest looks carefully at that kind of sore. It does not seem to be under the skin. And there is no black hair in it. Then the priest must make the person stay away from everyone else for seven days. 
Leviticus13:32 On the seventh day the priest must look at the sore carefully. Suppose the itch has not spread in the skin. It does not have any yellow hair in it. And it does not seem to be under the skin. 
Leviticus13:33 Then the person must shave his head. But he must not shave the area where the disease is. And the priest must make him stay away from everyone else for another seven days. 
Leviticus13:34 On the seventh day the priest must look at the itch carefully. Suppose it has not spread in the skin. And suppose it does not seem to be under the skin. Then the priest must announce that the person is 'clean.' He must wash his clothes. He will be 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:35 But suppose the itch spreads in the skin after the priest announces that the person is 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:36 Then the priest must look him over carefully. Suppose the itch has spread. Then the priest does not have to look for yellow hair. The person is not 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:37 But suppose the itch has been stopped and black hair has grown in it, as far as the priest can tell. Then the itch is healed. The person is 'clean.' The priest must announce that he is 'clean.'" 
Leviticus13:38 Suppose a man or woman has white spots on the skin. 
Leviticus13:39 Then the priest must look at them carefully. Suppose he sees that the spots are dull white. Then a harmless rash has broken out on the skin. That person is 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:40 Suppose a man loses all of the hair on his head. Then he is 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:41 Suppose he loses only the hair on the front of his head. Then he is 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:42 But suppose he has a shiny pink sore on his head where his hair was. Then he has a skin disease. It is breaking out on his whole head or on the front of his head. 
Leviticus13:43 The priest must look him over carefully. Suppose the swollen sore on his head or on the front of it is pink and shiny. And suppose it looks like a skin disease. 
Leviticus13:44 Then he has a skin disease. He is not 'clean.' The priest must announce that the man is 'unclean.' That is because he has a sore on his head. 
Leviticus13:45 Suppose someone has a skin disease that makes him 'unclean.' Then he must wear torn clothes. He must let his hair hang loose. He must cover the lower part of his face. He must cry out, 'Unclean! Unclean!'" 
Leviticus13:46 As long as he has the disease, he remains 'unclean.' He must live alone. He must live outside the camp." 
Leviticus13:47 Suppose some clothes have mold on them. The clothes could be made out of wool or linen. 
Leviticus13:48 Or there could be cloth that is woven or knitted out of linen or wool. There could be pieces of leather. Or there could be articles that are made out of leather. 
Leviticus13:49 And suppose the mold that is on the clothes or on the woven or knitted cloth looks green or red. Or suppose the green or red mold is on the pieces of leather or the leather articles. Then it is mold that spreads. It must be shown to the priest. 
Leviticus13:50 The priest must look at it carefully. He must keep the article with the mold on it away from everything else for seven days. 
Leviticus13:51 On the seventh day he must look at it carefully. Suppose the mold has spread in the clothes or in the woven or knitted cloth. Or suppose it has spread on the pieces of leather or on the leather articles. Then it is mold that destroys. The article is not 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:52 The priest must burn up everything that has the mold in it. He must burn up the clothes or the woven or knitted cloth that is made out of wool or linen. He must burn up the leather articles. The mold destroys. So everything must be burned up. 
Leviticus13:53 But suppose the priest looks at the article carefully. The mold has not spread in the clothes. And it has not spread in the woven or knitted cloth or in the leather articles. 
Leviticus13:54 Then he will order someone to wash the article that has the mold on it. After that, the priest must keep the articles away from everything else for another seven days." 
Leviticus13:55 After the article that has the mold on it has been washed, the priest must look at it carefully. Suppose the way the mold looks has not changed. Then even though the mold has not spread, it is not 'clean.' Burn it up. It does not matter which side of the article the mold is on." 
Leviticus13:56 But suppose the priest looks at it carefully. And suppose the mold has faded after the article has been washed. Then the priest must tear out the part that has mold on it. He must tear it out of the clothes or leather. He must tear it out of the woven or knitted cloth. 
Leviticus13:57 But suppose it shows up again in the clothes. Or suppose it shows up again in the woven or knitted cloth or in the leather articles. Then it is spreading. Everything that has the mold on it must be burned up. 
Leviticus13:58 The clothes that have been washed and do not have any more mold on them must be washed again. So must the woven or knitted cloth or the leather articles. Then they will be 'clean.' 
Leviticus13:59 Those are the rules about what to do with anything that has mold on it. They apply to clothes that are made out of wool or linen. They apply to woven and knitted cloth and to leather articles. They give a priest directions about when to announce whether something is clean or not. 
Leviticus14:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He told him to say to the people," 
Leviticus14:2 Here are the rules for making someone 'clean' if he has had a skin disease. They apply when he is brought to the priest. 
Leviticus14:3 The priest must go outside the camp. He must look the person over carefully. Suppose he has been healed of his skin disease. 
Leviticus14:4 Then the priest will order someone to bring him two live 'clean' birds. He will also order someone to bring him some cedar wood, bright red yarn and branches of a hyssop plant. All of those things will be used to make the person 'clean.'" 
Leviticus14:5 The priest will order someone to kill one of the birds. It must be killed over fresh water in a clay pot. 
Leviticus14:6 Then the priest must take the live bird. He must dip it into the blood of the bird that was killed over the fresh water. He must dip it into the blood together with the cedar wood, the bright red yarn and the hyssop plant." 
Leviticus14:7 The priest will sprinkle the blood on the person who had the skin disease. That will make him 'clean.' The priest must sprinkle him seven times. Then the priest must announce that he is 'clean.' After that, the priest must let the live bird go free in the open fields." 
Leviticus14:8 The person must also wash his clothes to be made 'clean.' He must shave off all of his hair. He must take a bath. Then he will be 'clean.' After that, he may come into the camp. But he must stay outside his tent for seven days." 
Leviticus14:9 On the seventh day he must shave off all of his hair. He must shave his head. He must shave off his beard. He must also shave off his eyebrows and the rest of his hair. He must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. Then he will be 'clean.' 
Leviticus14:10 On the eighth day he must bring two male lambs and one female lamb as an offering. The female must be a year old. The lambs must not have any flaws. He must also bring 24 cups of fine flour as a grain offering. He must mix it with olive oil. He must also bring five ounces of oil. 
Leviticus14:11 The priest who announces that the person is 'clean' must bring him and his offerings to me. He must do it at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus14:12 Then the priest must take one of the male lambs. He must offer it as a guilt offering. He must offer it along with five ounces of oil. He must lift all of it up and wave it in front of me as a wave offering. 
Leviticus14:13 He must kill the lamb in the holy place where sin offerings and burnt offerings are killed. The guilt offering belongs to the priest, just as the sin offering does. The guilt offering is very holy." 
Leviticus14:14 The priest must take some of the blood from the guilt offering and put it on the person's right ear lobe. He must put some on the thumb of his right hand. He must also put some on the big toe of his right foot. 
Leviticus14:15 Then the priest must take some of the oil and pour it into his own left hand. 
Leviticus14:16 He must dip his right forefinger into the oil that is in his hand. He must use his finger to sprinkle some of the oil in front of me seven times. 
Leviticus14:17 The priest must put some of the oil that is in his hand on the same places he put the blood of the guilt offering. He must put some on the person's right ear lobe. He must put some on the thumb of his right hand. He must put some on the big toe of his right foot. 
Leviticus14:18 He must put on his head the rest of the oil that is in his hand. It will pay for the person's sin in my sight. 
Leviticus14:19 Then the priest must sacrifice the sin offering. It will pay for the person's sin. He will be made 'clean' after being 'unclean.' After that, the priest will kill the burnt offering." 
Leviticus14:20 He will offer it on the altar. He will offer it together with the grain offering. It will pay for the person's sin. Then he will be 'clean.' 
Leviticus14:21 But suppose he is poor. Suppose he can't afford all of those offerings. Then he must bring one male lamb as a guilt offering. It must be lifted up and waved in front of me to pay for his sin. He must also bring eight cups of fine flour along with the lamb. He must mix the flour with olive oil. It is a grain offering. He must offer it along with five ounces of oil. 
Leviticus14:22 He must also bring two doves or two young pigeons that he can afford. One is for a sin offering. The other is for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus14:23 On the eighth day he must bring them to the priest so he can be made 'clean.' He must bring them to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. He must do it in my sight. 
Leviticus14:24 The priest must take the lamb for the guilt offering. He must take it together with the five ounces of oil. He must lift all of it up and wave it in front of me as a wave offering. 
Leviticus14:25 He must kill the lamb for the guilt offering. He must take some of its blood and put it on the person's right ear lobe. He must put some on the thumb of his right hand. He must also put some on the big toe of his right foot. 
Leviticus14:26 The priest must pour some of the oil into his own left hand. 
Leviticus14:27 He must dip his right forefinger into the oil that is in his hand. He must use his finger to sprinkle some of it seven times in front of me. 
Leviticus14:28 He must put some of the oil that is in his hand on the same places he put the blood of the guilt offering. He must put some on the person's right ear lobe. He must put some on the thumb of his right hand. He must also put some on the big toe of his right foot. 
Leviticus14:29 He must put on his head the rest of the oil that is in his hand. It will pay for the person's sin in my sight. 
Leviticus14:30 The priest will sacrifice the doves or the young pigeons that the person can afford. 
Leviticus14:31 One is for a sin offering. The other is for a burnt offering. The priest must offer them together with the grain offering. In that way he will pay for the person's sin in my sight. He will do it to make him 'clean.' 
Leviticus14:32 Those are the rules for anyone who has a skin disease. They are for people who can't afford the regular offerings that are required to make them clean. 
Leviticus14:33 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He told them to say to the people," 
Leviticus14:34 You will enter the land of Canaan. I am giving it to you as your own. When you enter it, suppose I put mold in one of your houses. And suppose the mold spreads." 
Leviticus14:35 Then the owner of that house must go and speak to the priest. He must say, 'I've seen something that looks like mold in my house.'" 
Leviticus14:36 The priest must order everything to be taken out of the house. It must be done before he goes in to look carefully at the mold. If it is not done, the priest must announce that everything in the house is 'unclean.' ""After the house is empty the priest must go in and check it." 
Leviticus14:37 He must look carefully at the mold that is on the walls. Suppose it looks as if it has green or red dents in it. And suppose the dents look as if they are behind the surface of the wall. 
Leviticus14:38 Then the priest must go out the door. He must close the house up for seven days. 
Leviticus14:39 On the seventh day the priest will return to check the house. Suppose the mold that is on the walls has spread. 
Leviticus14:40 Then he must order someone to tear out the stones that have mold on them. He must have them thrown into an 'unclean' place outside the town. 
Leviticus14:41 He must have all of the inside walls of the house scraped. Everything that is scraped off must be dumped into an 'unclean' place outside the town. 
Leviticus14:42 Then other stones must be put in the place of the stones that had mold on them. The inside walls of the house must be coated with new clay. 
Leviticus14:43 Suppose the stones have been torn out. The house has been scraped. And the walls have been coated with new clay. But the mold appears again. 
Leviticus14:44 Then the priest must go and look things over carefully. Suppose the mold has spread in the house. Then it is the kind of mold that destroys things. The house is not 'clean.' 
Leviticus14:45 It must be torn down. The stones, the wood and all of the clay coating must be torn out. All of it must be taken out of the town to an 'unclean' place." 
Leviticus14:46 Suppose someone goes into the house while it is closed up. Then he will be 'unclean' until evening. 
Leviticus14:47 If he sleeps or eats in the house, he must wash his clothes." 
Leviticus14:48 But suppose the priest comes to look things over carefully. And suppose the mold has not spread after the walls had been coated with new clay. Then he will announce that the house is 'clean.' The mold is gone. 
Leviticus14:49 To make the house pure, the priest must get two birds. He must also get some cedar wood, bright red yarn and branches of a hyssop plant." 
Leviticus14:50 He must kill one of the birds over fresh water in a clay pot. 
Leviticus14:51 Then he must take the cedar wood, the hyssop plant, the bright red yarn and the live bird. He must dip all of them into the blood of the dead bird. He must also dip them into the fresh water. He must sprinkle the house seven times." 
Leviticus14:52 The priest will use the blood and the water to make the house pure. He will use the live bird to make it pure. He will also use the cedar wood, the hyssop plant and the bright red yarn to make it pure." 
Leviticus14:53 Then he must let the live bird go free in the open fields outside the town. In that way he will make the house pure. It will be 'clean.' 
Leviticus14:54 Those are the rules for skin diseases. They apply to itches. 
Leviticus14:55 They apply to mold in clothes or in houses. 
Leviticus14:56 They also apply to swellings, rashes or bright red spots on the skin." 
Leviticus14:57 Use those rules to decide whether something is clean or not. Those are the rules for skin diseases and for mold. 
Leviticus15:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Leviticus15:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose liquid waste is flowing out of a man's body. That liquid is not ""clean.""" 
Leviticus15:3 It does not matter whether it continues to flow out of his body or is blocked. It will make him unclean. Here is how his liquid body waste will make him unclean. 
Leviticus15:4  'Any bed the man who has the flow of liquid body waste lies on will not be clean. Anything he sits on will not be clean. 
Leviticus15:5  'If any of you touches the man's bed, you must wash your clothes. You must take a bath. You will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus15:6 Suppose you sit on anything the man sat on. Then you must wash your clothes. You must take a bath. You will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:7  'Suppose you touch the man who has the flow of liquid body waste. Then you must wash your clothes. You must take a bath. You will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:8  'Suppose you are clean. And suppose the man who has the flow of liquid waste spits on you. Then you must wash your clothes. You must take a bath. You will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:9  'Everything the man sits on when he is riding will be unclean. 
Leviticus15:10 Suppose you touch any of the things that were under him. Then you will be unclean until evening. Even if you pick up those things, you must wash your clothes. You must take a bath. You will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus15:11  'Suppose the man who has the liquid flow touches you. And suppose he does it without rinsing his hands with water. Then you must wash your clothes. You must take a bath. You will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:12  'Suppose the man touches a clay pot. Then that pot must be broken. Any wooden article he touches must be rinsed with water. 
Leviticus15:13  'Suppose the man has been healed from his liquid flow. Then he must wait seven days. He must wash his clothes. He must take a bath in fresh water. After that, he will be ""clean.""" 
Leviticus15:14  'On the eighth day he must get two doves or two young pigeons. He must come to the Lord at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. There he must give the birds to the priest. 
Leviticus15:15 The priest must sacrifice them. One is for a sin offering. The other is for a burnt offering. In that way the priest will pay for the man's sin in the sight of the Lord. He will do it because the man had a liquid flow. 
Leviticus15:16  'Suppose semen flows from a man's body. Then he must wash his whole body with water. He will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:17  'Suppose clothes or leather have semen on them. Then they must be washed with water. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:18  'Suppose a man makes love to a woman. And suppose semen flows from his body and touches both of them. Then they must take a bath. They will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:19  'Suppose a woman is having her regular period. Then for seven days she will not be pure. Anyone who touches her will be unclean until evening. 
Leviticus15:20  'Anything she lies on during her period will be unclean. Anything she sits on will be unclean. 
Leviticus15:21  'If anyone touches her bed, he must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. He will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus15:22 If anyone touches anything she sits on, he must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. He will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus15:23  'It does not matter whether it was her bed or anything she was sitting on. If anyone touches it, he will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus15:24  'Suppose a man makes love to that woman. And suppose blood from her monthly period touches him. Then he will be unclean for seven days. Any bed he lies on will be unclean. 
Leviticus15:25  'Suppose blood flows from a woman's body for many days. And it happens at a time other than her monthly period. Or blood keeps flowing after her period is over. Then she will be unclean as long as the blood continues to flow. She will be unclean,"" just as she is during the days of her period." 
Leviticus15:26  'Any bed she lies on while her blood continues to flow will be unclean. It is the same as it is when she is having her period. Anything she sits on will be unclean. It is the same as it is when she is having her period. 
Leviticus15:27  'If anyone touches those things, he will not be ""clean."" He must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. He will be ""unclean"" until evening." 
Leviticus15:28  'Suppose the woman has been healed from her flow of blood. Then she must wait seven days. After that, she will be ""clean.""" 
Leviticus15:29 On the eighth day she must get two doves or two young pigeons. She must bring them to the priest at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus15:30  'The priest must sacrifice them. One is for a sin offering. The other is for a burnt offering. In that way he will pay for her sin in the sight of the Lord. He will do it because her flow of blood made her unclean. 
Leviticus15:31  'You must keep the people of Israel away from things that make them unclean. Then they will not die for being unclean. And they will not die for making the place where the Lord lives unclean. It is in the middle of the camp.' 
Leviticus15:32 Those are the rules for a man who has liquid waste flowing out of his body. They apply to a man who is made unclean by semen that flows from his body. 
Leviticus15:33 They apply to a woman who is having her monthly period. They apply to a man or woman who has a liquid flow. And they apply to a man who makes love to a woman who is not clean. 
Leviticus16:1 The Lord spoke to Moses after two of Aaron's sons had died. They were the sons who died when they came near the Lord. 
Leviticus16:2 The Lord said to Moses, ""Speak to your brother Aaron. Tell him not to come into the Most Holy Room just anytime he wants to. Tell him not to come behind the curtain that is in front of the cover of the ark. The cover is the place where sin is paid for. If he comes behind the curtain, he will die. That is because I appear in the cloud over the cover." 
Leviticus16:3 Aaron must not enter the area of the sacred tent without bringing a sacrifice. He must bring a young bull for a sin offering. He must also bring a ram for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:4 He must put on the sacred inner robe that is made out of linen. He must wear linen underwear next to his body. He must tie the linen belt around him. And he must put on the linen turban. Those are sacred clothes. So he must take a bath before he puts them on. 
Leviticus16:5 The community of Israel must give him two male goats and a ram. The goats are for a sin offering. The ram is for a burnt offering. 
Leviticus16:6 Aaron must offer the bull for his own sin offering. It will pay for his own sin and the sin of his whole family. 
Leviticus16:7 Then he must take the two goats and bring them to me at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus16:8 He must cast lots for the two goats. One lot is for me. The other is for the goat that carries the people's sins away. 
Leviticus16:9 Aaron must bring the goat that is chosen for me by lot. He must sacrifice it for a sin offering. 
Leviticus16:10 But the goat that is chosen by the other lot must remain alive. First it must be brought in to me to pay for the people's sin. Then it must be sent into the desert as a goat that carries the people's sins away. 
Leviticus16:11 Aaron must bring the bull for his own sin offering. It will pay for his own sin and the sin of his whole family. He must kill the bull for his own sin offering. 
Leviticus16:12 He must take a shallow cup full of burning coals from the altar in my sight. He must get two handfuls of incense that is completely ground up. The incense must smell sweet. He must take the cup and the incense behind the curtain. 
Leviticus16:13 He must put the incense on the fire in my sight. The smoke from the incense will hide the cover of the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. The cover is the place where sin is paid for. Aaron must burn the incense so that he will not die. 
Leviticus16:14 He must dip his finger in the bull's blood. He must sprinkle it on the front of the cover of the ark. He must sprinkle some in front of the cover. He must do it seven times. 
Leviticus16:15 Then Aaron must kill the goat for the sin offering for the people. He must take its blood behind the curtain. There he must do the same thing with it as he did with the bull's blood. He must sprinkle it on the cover of the ark. He must also sprinkle some in front of it. 
Leviticus16:16 That is how he will make the Most Holy Room pure. He must do it because the people of Israel are not 'clean.' They have not obeyed me. They have also committed other sins. Aaron must do the same for the Tent of Meeting because it stands in the middle of the camp. And the camp is not 'clean.' 
Leviticus16:17 No one can be in the Tent of Meeting when Aaron goes into the Most Holy Room to pay for the people's sin. No one can enter the tent until Aaron comes out. He will not come out until he has paid for his own sin and the sin of his whole family. He will not come out until he has also paid for the sin of the whole community of Israel. 
Leviticus16:18 Then he will come out to the altar for burnt offerings. It is in front of the tent where the ark of the Lord is. He will make the altar pure and clean. He will take some of the bull's blood and some of the goat's blood. Then he will put the blood on all of the horns that stick out from the upper four corners of the altar. 
Leviticus16:19 He will sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times. He will do it to make the altar pure. He will do it to set it apart from the people of Israel. They are not 'clean.' 
Leviticus16:20 Aaron will finish making the Most Holy Room pure and clean. He will finish making the Tent of Meeting and the altar pure. Then he will bring the live goat out. 
Leviticus16:21 He must place both of his hands on its head. While he does that, he must tell me about all of the sins the people of Israel have committed. He must tell me about all of their evil acts and the times they did not obey me. In that way he puts their sins on the goat's head. ""Then he will send the goat away into the desert. The goat will be led away by a man who was appointed to do it." 
Leviticus16:22 The goat will carry all of their sins on itself to a place where there are no people. And the man will set the goat free in the desert. 
Leviticus16:23 Then Aaron must go into the Tent of Meeting. He must take off the linen clothes he put on before he entered the Most Holy Room. He must leave them there. 
Leviticus16:24 He must take a bath in a holy place. And he must put on his regular clothes. Then he will come out and sacrifice the burnt offering for himself. He will also sacrifice the burnt offering for the people. That will pay for his own sin and the people's sin. 
Leviticus16:25 He will also burn the fat of the sin offering on the altar. 
Leviticus16:26 The man who sets free the goat that carries the people's sins away must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. After that, he can come back into the camp." 
Leviticus16:27 The bull and the goat for the sin offerings must be taken outside the camp. Their blood was brought into the Most Holy Room. It paid for sin. The hides, meat and guts must be burned up." 
Leviticus16:28 The man who burns them must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. After that, he can come back into the camp." 
Leviticus16:29 Here is a law for you that will last for all time to come. On the tenth day of the seventh month you must not eat anything. You must not do any work. It does not matter whether you are Israelites or outsiders. 
Leviticus16:30 On that day your sin will be paid for. You will be made pure and clean. You will be clean from all of your sins in my sight. 
Leviticus16:31 That day is a sabbath for you. You must rest on it. You must not eat anything on that day. That is a law that will last for all time to come. 
Leviticus16:32 The high priest must pay for sin. He must make everything pure and clean. He has been anointed and prepared to become the next high priest after his father. He must put on the sacred clothes that are made out of linen. 
Leviticus16:33 He must make the Most Holy Room, the Tent of Meeting and the altar pure. And he must pay for the sin of the priests and all of the people in the whole community." 
Leviticus16:34 Here is a law for you that will last for all time to come. Once a year you must pay for all of the sin of the people of Israel. So it was done, just as the Lord commanded Moses." 
Leviticus17:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus17:2 Speak to Aaron and his sons. Speak to all of the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Here is what the Lord has commanded. He has said," 
Leviticus17:3 Suppose someone sacrifices an ox, a lamb or a goat. He sacrifices it in the camp or outside of it." 
Leviticus17:4 He does it instead of bringing the animal to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. He sacrifices it instead of giving it as an offering to me in front of my holy tent. Then he will be thought of as guilty of spilling blood. Because he has done that, he must be cut off from his people." 
Leviticus17:5  ' The people of Israel are now making sacrifices in the open fields. But they must bring their sacrifices to the priest. They must bring them to me at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. There they must sacrifice them as friendship offerings. 
Leviticus17:6 The priest must sprinkle the blood against my altar. It is the altar at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. He must burn the fat. It will give a pleasant smell to me. 
Leviticus17:7  ' Israel must stop offering any of their sacrifices to statues of gods that look like goats. When they offer sacrifices to those statues, they are not faithful to me. That is a law for them that will last for all time to come."" '" 
Leviticus17:8 Tell them, 'Suppose someone offers a burnt offering or sacrifice. It does not matter whether he is an Israelite or an outsider." 
Leviticus17:9 And suppose he does not bring it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting to sacrifice it to me. Then he must be cut off from his people. 
Leviticus17:10  'Suppose someone eats meat that still has blood in it. It does not matter whether he is an Israelite or an outsider. I will turn against him if he eats it. I will cut him off from his people. 
Leviticus17:11  'The life of each creature is in its blood. So I have given you the blood of animals to pay for your sin on the altar. Blood is life. That is why blood pays for your sin. 
Leviticus17:12  'So I say to the people of Israel, ""You must not eat meat that still has blood in it. And an outsider who lives among you must not eat it either.""" 
Leviticus17:13  'Suppose any of you hunts any animal or bird that can be eaten. It does not matter whether you are an Israelite or an outsider. You must let the blood flow out of the animal or bird. You must cover the blood with dirt. 
Leviticus17:14  'That is because every creature's life is its blood. And that is why I have said to the people of Israel, ""You must not eat any creature's meat that still has blood in it. Every creature's life is its blood. Anyone who eats that kind of meat must be cut off.""" 
Leviticus17:15  'Suppose someone eats anything that is found dead or is torn apart by wild animals. It does not matter whether he is an Israelite or an outsider. He must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. He will be unclean until evening. After that, he will be ""clean.""" 
Leviticus17:16  'But suppose he does not wash his clothes. And suppose he does not take a bath. Then he will be held accountable for what he has done.' 
Leviticus18:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus18:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus18:3 You must not do what the people of Egypt do. You used to live there. And you must not do what the people of Canaan do. I am bringing you into their land. Do not follow their practices. 
Leviticus18:4  'You must obey my laws. You must be careful to follow my rules. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus18:5 Keep my rules and laws. The one who obeys them will live by them. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus18:6  'Do not have sex with any of your close relatives. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus18:7  'Do not bring shame on your father by having sex with your mother. Do not have sex with her. She is your mother. 
Leviticus18:8  'Do not have sex with any other wife of your father. That would bring shame on your father. 
Leviticus18:9  'Do not have sex with your sister. It does not matter whether she is your father's daughter or your mother's daughter. It does not matter whether she was born in the same home as you were or somewhere else. 
Leviticus18:10  'Do not have sex with your son's daughter or your daughter's daughter. That would bring shame on you. 
Leviticus18:11  'Do not have sex with the daughter of your father's wife. She was born to your father. She is your sister. 
Leviticus18:12  'Do not have sex with your father's sister. She is a close relative on your father's side. 
Leviticus18:13  'Do not have sex with your mother's sister. She is a close relative on your mother's side. 
Leviticus18:14  'Do not bring shame on your father's brother by having sex with his wife. She is your aunt. 
Leviticus18:15  'Do not have sex with your daughter-in-law. She is your son's wife. Do not have sex with her. 
Leviticus18:16  'Do not have sex with your brother's wife. That would bring shame on your brother. 
Leviticus18:17  'Do not have sex with both a woman and her daughter. Do not have sex with either her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter. They are close relatives on her side. Having sex with them is an evil thing. 
Leviticus18:18  'Do not take your wife's sister as another wife and have sex with her. Do not do it while your wife is still living. 
Leviticus18:19  'Do not make love to a woman during her monthly period. She is not clean at that time. 
Leviticus18:20  'Do not have sex with your neighbor's wife. That would make you unclean. 
Leviticus18:21  'Do not hand over any of your children to be sacrificed to the god Molech. That would be treating my name as if it were not holy. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus18:22  'Do not have sex with a man as you would have sex with a woman. I hate that. 
Leviticus18:23  'Do not have sex with an animal. Do not make yourself unclean by doing that. A woman must not offer herself to an animal to have sex with it. That is a twisted use of sex. 
Leviticus18:24  'Do not make yourselves unclean in any of those ways. That is how other nations became unclean. So I am going to drive those nations out of the land to make room for you. 
Leviticus18:25 Even their land was not clean. So I punished it because of its sin. The land itself threw out the people who lived there. 
Leviticus18:26  'But you must keep my rules and my laws. You must not do any of the things I hate. It does not matter whether you are Israelites or outsiders. 
Leviticus18:27  'All of those things were done by the people who lived in the land before you. That is how the land became unclean. 
Leviticus18:28 If you make the land unclean,"" it will throw you out. It will get rid of you just as it got rid of the nations that were there before you." 
Leviticus18:29  'Suppose you do any of the things I hate. Then you must be cut off from your people. 
Leviticus18:30  'Do exactly what I require. When you arrive in Canaan, do not follow any of the practices of its people. I hate the things they do. Do not make yourselves ""unclean"" by doing them. I am the Lord your God.' """ 
Leviticus19:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus19:2 Speak to the whole community of Israel. Tell them, 'Be holy, because I am holy. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:3  'All of you must have respect for your mother and father. You must always keep my Sabbath days. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:4  'Do not turn away from me to worship statues of gods. Do not make gods out of metal for yourselves. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:5  'Suppose you sacrifice a friendship offering to me. Then do it in the right way. And I will accept it from you. 
Leviticus19:6 You must eat it on the same day you sacrifice it or on the next day. Anything that is left over until the third day must be burned up. 
Leviticus19:7  'If you eat any of it on the third day, it is not pure. I will not accept it." 
Leviticus19:8 If you eat it, you will be held accountable. You have misused what is holy to me. You will be cut off from your people." 
Leviticus19:9  'Suppose you are harvesting your crops. Then do not harvest all the way to the edges of your field. And do not pick up the grain you missed. 
Leviticus19:10 Do not go over your vineyard a second time. Do not pick up the grapes that have fallen to the ground. Leave them for poor people and outsiders. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:11  'Do not steal.  'Do not tell lies.  'Do not cheat one another. 
Leviticus19:12  'Do not take an oath and give false witness in my name. That would be treating it as if it were not holy. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:13  'Do not cheat your neighbor. Do not rob him.  'Do not hold back the pay of a hired worker until morning. 
Leviticus19:14  'Do not call a curse down on deaf people. Do not put anything in front of blind people that will make them trip. Instead, have respect for me. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:15  'Do not make something that is wrong appear to be right. Treat poor people and rich people in the same way. Do not favor one person over another. Instead, judge everyone fairly." 
Leviticus19:16  'Do not go around spreading lies among your people.  'Do not do anything that puts your neighbor's life in danger. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:17  'Do not hate your brother in your heart. Correct your neighbor boldly when he does something wrong. Then you will not share his guilt. 
Leviticus19:18  'Do not try to get even. Do not hold anything against one of your people. Instead, love your neighbor as you love yourself. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus19:19  'Obey my rules.  'Do not let different kinds of animals mate with each other.  'Do not mix two kinds of seeds and then plant them in your field.  'Do not wear clothes that are made out of two kinds of cloth. 
Leviticus19:20  'Suppose a man has sex with a female slave. But she and another man have promised to get married to each other. And her freedom has not yet been paid for or given to her. Then she and the man who had sex with her must be punished. But they must not be put to death, because she had not been set free." 
Leviticus19:21  'The man must bring a ram to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. It is for a guilt offering to me. 
Leviticus19:22 The priest must take the ram for the guilt offering. He must sacrifice it to pay for the man's sin in my sight. Then his sin will be forgiven. 
Leviticus19:23  'When you enter the land, suppose you plant a fruit tree. Then do not eat its fruit for the first three years. The fruit is not ""clean.""" 
Leviticus19:24 In the fourth year all of the fruit will be holy. Offer it as a way of showing praise to me. 
Leviticus19:25 But in the fifth year you can eat the fruit. Then you will gather more and more fruit. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:26  'Do not eat any meat that still has blood in it.  'Do not practice any kind of evil magic at all. 
Leviticus19:27  'Do not cut the hair on the sides of your head. Do not clip off the edges of your beard. 
Leviticus19:28  'Do not make cuts on your bodies when someone dies. Do not put marks on your skin. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:29  'Do not dishonor your daughter's body by making a prostitute out of her. If you do, the people of Israel will start using prostitutes. The land will be filled with evil." 
Leviticus19:30  'You must always keep my Sabbath days. Have respect for my sacred tent. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus19:31  'Do not look for advice from people who get messages from those who have died. Do not go to people who talk to the spirits of the dead. If you do, they will make you ""unclean."" I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus19:32  'Stand up in order to show your respect for old people. Also have respect for me. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:33  'Suppose an outsider lives with you in your land. Then do not treat him badly. 
Leviticus19:34 Treat him as if he were one of your own people. Love him as you love yourself. Remember that all of you were outsiders in Egypt. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus19:35  'Be honest when you measure lengths, weights or amounts." 
Leviticus19:36 Use honest scales and honest weights. Use honest dry measures. And use honest liquid measures. I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. 
Leviticus19:37  'Obey all of my rules and laws. Follow them. I am the Lord.' 
Leviticus20:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus20:2 Say to the people of Israel, 'Suppose a person sacrifices one of his children to the god Molech. It does not matter whether that person is an Israelite or an outsider who lives in Israel. He must be put to death. The people of the community must kill him by throwing stones at him." 
Leviticus20:3 I will turn against that man. I will cut him off from his people. That is because he sacrificed his child to Molech. He has made my sacred tent unclean. He has treated my name as if it were not holy. 
Leviticus20:4  'Suppose the people of the community close their eyes to the fact that the man sacrificed his child to Molech. And suppose they fail to put him to death. 
Leviticus20:5 Then I will turn against that man and his family. I will cut him off from his people. I will also cut off all those who follow him by joining themselves to Molech. They are not faithful to me. 
Leviticus20:6  'Suppose someone looks for advice from people who get messages from those who have died. Or he goes to people who talk to the spirits of the dead. And he follows their advice. Then he has not been faithful to me. So I will turn against him. I will cut him off from his people. 
Leviticus20:7  'Set yourselves apart for me. Be holy, because I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus20:8 Obey my rules. Follow them. I am the Lord. I make you holy. 
Leviticus20:9  'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death. He has cursed his father or mother. Anything that happens to him will be his own fault." 
Leviticus20:10  'Suppose a man commits adultery with his neighbor's wife. Then the man and the woman must be put to death. 
Leviticus20:11  'Suppose a man has sex with his father's wife. Then he has brought shame on his father. The man and the woman must be put to death. Anything that happens to them will be their own fault. 
Leviticus20:12  'Suppose a man has sex with his daughter-in-law. Then they must be put to death. They have used sex in a twisted way. Anything that happens to them will be their own fault. 
Leviticus20:13  'Suppose a man has sex with another man as he would have sex with a woman. I hate what they have done. They must be put to death. Anything that happens to them will be their own fault. 
Leviticus20:14  'Suppose a man gets married to both a woman and her mother. That is evil. All of them must be burned to death. Then there will not be any evil among you. 
Leviticus20:15  'Suppose a man has sex with an animal. Then he must be put to death. You must also kill the animal. 
Leviticus20:16  'Suppose a woman has sex with an animal. Then kill the woman and the animal. They must be put to death. Anything that happens to them will be their own fault. 
Leviticus20:17  'Suppose a man gets married to his sister and has sex with her. That is a shameful thing to do. It does not matter whether she is the daughter of his father or of his mother. They must be cut off right in front of their own people. That man has brought shame on his sister. He will be held accountable for what he has done. 
Leviticus20:18  'Suppose a man makes love to a woman during her monthly period. He has uncovered the place where her bleeding was coming from. And she has let him do it. So they must be cut off from their people. 
Leviticus20:19  'Do not have sex with the sister of either your mother or your father. That would bring shame on a close relative. Both of you would be held accountable for what you have done. 
Leviticus20:20  'Suppose a man has sex with his aunt. Then he has brought shame on his uncle. Both of them will be held accountable for what they have done. They will die without having any children. 
Leviticus20:21  'Suppose a man gets married to his brother's wife. That is something that should never be done. He has brought shame on his brother. Neither of them will have any children. 
Leviticus20:22  'Obey all of my rules and laws. Follow them. Then the land where I am bringing you to live will not throw you out. 
Leviticus20:23 To make room for you, I am going to drive out the nations that are in the land. You must not follow the practices of those nations. I hated those nations because they did all of those things." 
Leviticus20:24  'But I said to you, ""You will take over their land as your own. I will give it to you. It will belong to you. It is a land that has plenty of milk and honey."" I am the Lord your God. I have set you apart from the other nations." 
Leviticus20:25  'So you must be able to tell the difference between animals that are clean and those that are not. You must know which birds are clean and which are not. Do not make yourselves unclean by eating any animal or bird that is not clean. Do not make yourselves unclean by eating anything that moves along the ground. I have set all of them apart. They are unclean for you. 
Leviticus20:26  'You must be holy. You must be set apart to me. I am the Lord. I am holy. I have set you apart from the other nations to be my own people. 
Leviticus20:27  'Suppose a man or woman gets messages from those who have died. Or suppose a man or woman talks to the spirits of the dead. Then you must put that man or woman to death. You must kill them by throwing stones at them. Anything that happens to them will be their own fault.' 
Leviticus21:1 The Lord said to Moses, ""Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron. Tell them, 'A priest must not make himself ""unclean"" by going near the dead body of any of his people." 
Leviticus21:2 But he can go near the body of a close relative. It could be his mother, father, son, daughter or brother." 
Leviticus21:3 He can also go near a sister who is not married. She would have depended on him because she did not have a husband. The priest can make himself unclean by going near her body. 
Leviticus21:4 But he must not make himself unclean by going near the bodies of people who were only related to him by marriage. Going near them would make him unclean. 
Leviticus21:5  'Priests must not shave any part of their heads. They must not shave off the edges of their beards. They must not make cuts on their bodies when someone dies. 
Leviticus21:6  'Priests must be holy. They must be set apart for me. I am their God. They must not treat my name as if it were not holy. They must be holy because they bring offerings that are made to me with fire. That is my food. 
Leviticus21:7  'They must not get married to women who are unclean because they are prostitutes. They must not marry women who are divorced from their husbands. That is because priests are holy. They are set apart for me. I am their God. 
Leviticus21:8 Consider them as holy, because they offer up food to me. Consider them as holy, because I am holy. I am the Lord. I make you holy." 
Leviticus21:9  'Suppose a priest's daughter makes herself unclean by becoming a prostitute. Then she brings shame on her father. She must be burned to death. 
Leviticus21:10  'The high priest is the one among his brothers whose head has been anointed with olive oil. He has been appointed to wear the priest's clothes.  'When someone dies, the high priest must not let his hair hang loose. He must not tear his clothes to show how sad he is." 
Leviticus21:11 He must not enter a place where there is a dead body. He must not make himself unclean,"" even if his father or mother dies." 
Leviticus21:12 He must not leave my sacred tent to take part in burying a body. That would bring shame on the tent. My anointing oil has set the high priest apart. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus21:13  'The woman the high priest gets married to must be a virgin. 
Leviticus21:14 He must not marry a widow or a woman who is divorced. He must not marry a woman who is unclean because she is a prostitute. He must only get married to a virgin. She must come from his own people. 
Leviticus21:15 If he marries a virgin, he makes the children he has by her ""clean."" I am the Lord. I make him holy.' """ 
Leviticus21:16 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus21:17 Speak to Aaron. Tell him, 'For all time to come, no man in your family line who has any flaws can come near to offer food to me." 
Leviticus21:18  'No man who has any flaws can come near. No man who is blind or disabled can come. No man whose body is scarred or twisted can come. 
Leviticus21:19 No man whose foot or hand is disabled can come. 
Leviticus21:20 No man whose back is bent can come. No man who is too short can come. No man who has anything wrong with his eyes can come. No man who has boils or running sores can come. No man whose sex glands are crushed can come. 
Leviticus21:21  'No man in the family line of the priest Aaron who has any flaws can come near me. He can't come to bring the offerings that are made to me with fire. If he has any flaws, he must not come near to offer food to me." 
Leviticus21:22 He can eat the holy food. He can also eat my very holy food. 
Leviticus21:23 But because he has a flaw, he must not go near the curtain or approach the altar. If he does, he will make my sacred tent ""unclean."" I am the Lord. I make everything holy.' """ 
Leviticus21:24 So Moses told all of those things to Aaron and his sons. He also told them to all of the people of Israel. 
Leviticus22:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus22:2 Here is what I want you to tell Aaron and his sons. Tell them to treat the sacred offerings with respect. They are the offerings the people of Israel set apart to honor me. So Aaron and his sons must never treat my name as if it were not holy. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:3 Say to them, 'Suppose a man in your family line is ""unclean."" And suppose he comes near the sacred offerings. They are the offerings the people of Israel set apart to honor me. That man must be cut off from serving me as a priest. That applies for all time to come. I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:4  'Suppose a man in Aaron's family line has a skin disease. Or suppose liquid waste is flowing out of his body. Then he can't eat the sacred offerings until he is made pure and clean.  'Suppose he touches something that has been made unclean by coming near a dead body. Or suppose he touches someone who has semen flowing from his body. Then he will not be clean. 
Leviticus22:5 Or suppose he touches any crawling thing that makes him unclean. Or suppose he touches any person who makes him unclean. It does not matter what he touches that is unclean. It will make him unclean. 
Leviticus22:6  'The one who touches anything of that kind will be unclean until evening. He must not eat any of the sacred offerings unless he has taken a bath. 
Leviticus22:7 When the sun goes down, he will be ""clean."" After that, he can eat the sacred offerings. They are his food." 
Leviticus22:8  'He must not eat anything that is found dead or torn apart by wild animals. If he does, it will make him ""unclean."" I am the Lord." 
Leviticus22:9  'The priests must do what I require. But suppose they make fun of what I require. Then they will become guilty and die. I am the Lord. I make them holy. 
Leviticus22:10  'Only a member of a priest's family can eat the sacred offering. The guest of a priest can't eat it. A priest's hired worker can't eat it either. 
Leviticus22:11  'But suppose a priest buys a slave with money. Or suppose a slave is born in his house. Then that slave can eat the sacred food. 
Leviticus22:12  'Suppose a priest's daughter gets married to someone who is not a priest. Then she can't eat any of the food that is brought as a sacred gift. 
Leviticus22:13 But suppose the priest's daughter becomes a widow or is divorced. She does not have any children. And she returns to live in her father's house, where she lived when she was young. Then she can eat her father's food. But a person who does not belong to a priest's family can't eat any of it." 
Leviticus22:14  'Suppose someone eats a sacred offering by mistake. Then he must pay back the priest for the offering. He must also add a fifth of its value to it. 
Leviticus22:15  'The priests must not allow the sacred offerings to become unclean. They are the offerings the people of Israel bring to me. 
Leviticus22:16 The priests must not allow the offerings to become unclean by letting the people eat them. If they do, they will bring guilt on the people. They will have to pay for what they have done. I am the Lord. I make them holy.' """ 
Leviticus22:17 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus22:18 Speak to Aaron and his sons. Speak to all of the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose any of you brings a gift for a burnt offering to the Lord. It does not matter whether you are an Israelite or an outsider who lives in Israel. It does not matter whether you bring the offering to keep a promise or because you choose to give it." 
Leviticus22:19 You must bring a male animal that does not have any flaws if you want the Lord to accept it from you. It does not matter whether it is from your cattle, sheep or goats." 
Leviticus22:20 Do not bring an animal that has any flaws. If you do, the Lord will not accept it from you." 
Leviticus22:21  'Suppose any of you brings an animal for a friendship offering to the Lord. Then it must not have any flaws at all. If it does, the Lord will not accept it. It does not matter whether the animal is from your herd or flock. It does not matter whether you bring it to keep a promise or because you choose to give it." 
Leviticus22:22 Do not offer a blind animal to the Lord. Do not bring an animal that is hurt or wounded. And do not offer one that has warts or boils or running sores. Do not place any of them on the altar as an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. 
Leviticus22:23  'But suppose you bring an offering you choose to give. Then you can bring an ox or a sheep whose body is twisted or too small. But the Lord will not accept it if you offer it to keep a promise. 
Leviticus22:24  'You must not offer the Lord a male animal whose sex glands have been hurt. The glands also must not be crushed, torn or cut. You must not offer that kind of animal in your own land." 
Leviticus22:25 And you must not accept that kind of animal from someone who comes from another land. You must not offer it as food for your God. He will not accept it from you. Its body is twisted and has flaws.' 
Leviticus22:26 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus22:27 When a calf, lamb or goat is born, it must remain with its mother for seven days. From the eighth day on, I will accept it as an offering that is made to me with fire." 
Leviticus22:28 Do not kill a cow and its calf on the same day. Do not kill a female sheep and its lamb on the same day. 
Leviticus22:29 Sacrifice a thank offering to me in the right way. Then I will accept it from you. 
Leviticus22:30 You must eat it that same day. Do not leave any of it until morning. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:31 Obey my commands. Follow them. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus22:32 Do not treat my name as if it were not holy. The people of Israel must recognize me as the holy God. I am the Lord. I make you holy. 
Leviticus22:33 I brought you out of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus23:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus23:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Here are my appointed feast days. They are the appointed feast days of the Lord. Tell the people that they must come together for these sacred feasts." 
Leviticus23:3  'There are six days when you can work. But the seventh day is a Sabbath. You must rest on it. Come together on that sacred day. You must not do any work on it. No matter where you live, it is a Sabbath day in my honor." 
Leviticus23:4  'Here are my appointed feasts. Tell the people that they must come together for these sacred feasts at their appointed times. 
Leviticus23:5 My Passover begins when the sun goes down on the 14th day of the first month. 
Leviticus23:6  'My Feast of Unleavened Bread begins on the 15th day of that month. For seven days you must eat bread that is made without yeast. 
Leviticus23:7 On the first day you must come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work on that day. 
Leviticus23:8 On each of the seven days bring an offering that is made to me with fire. On the seventh day come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work on that day.' 
Leviticus23:9 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus23:10 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'When you enter the land I am going to give you, bring an offering to me. Gather your crops. Bring the first bundle of grain to the priest." 
Leviticus23:11 He must lift the grain up and wave it in front of me. Then I will accept it from you. The priest must wave it on the day after the Sabbath. 
Leviticus23:12  'On the day he waves the grain for you, you must sacrifice a burnt offering to me. It must be a lamb that does not have any flaws. It must be a year old." 
Leviticus23:13 You must bring it together with its grain offering. The grain offering must be 16 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. It is an offering that is made to me with fire. It has a pleasant smell. You must offer a drink offering along with the burnt offering. It must be a quart of wine. 
Leviticus23:14  'You must not eat any bread until the very day you bring your offering to me. You must not eat any grain that has been cooked or any of your first grain until that time. That is a law that will last for all time to come. It applies no matter where you live. 
Leviticus23:15  'The day you brought the grain for the wave offering was the day after the Sabbath. Count off seven full weeks from that day. 
Leviticus23:16 Count off 50 days up to the day after the seventh Sabbath. On that day bring me an offering of your first grain. 
Leviticus23:17 Bring two loaves of bread that are made with 16 cups of fine flour. They must be baked with yeast. Bring them to me as a wave offering from the first share of your crops. That applies no matter where you live. 
Leviticus23:18  'Together with the bread, bring seven male lambs. Each lamb must be a year old. It must not have any flaws. Also bring one young bull and two rams. They will be a burnt offering to me. They will be offered together with their grain offerings and drink offerings. They are an offering that is made with fire. They give a pleasant smell to me." 
Leviticus23:19  'Then sacrifice one male goat for a sin offering. Also sacrifice two lambs for a friendship offering. Each of the lambs must be a year old. 
Leviticus23:20 The priest must lift the two lambs up and wave them in front of me as a wave offering. He must offer them together with the bread that is made out of the first share of your crops. They are a sacred offering to me. They will be given to the priest. 
Leviticus23:21  'On that same day tell the people that they must come together for a special service. They must not do any regular work. That is a law that will last for all time to come. It applies no matter where you live. 
Leviticus23:22  'Suppose you are gathering your crops. Then do not harvest all the way to the edges of your field. And do not pick up the grain you missed. Leave some for poor people and outsiders. I am the Lord your God.' 
Leviticus23:23 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus23:24 Say to the people of Israel, 'On the first day of the seventh month you must have a day of rest. It must be a special service that is announced with trumpet blasts." 
Leviticus23:25 Do not do any regular work on that day. Instead, bring an offering that is made to me with fire.' """ 
Leviticus23:26 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus23:27 The tenth day of the seventh month is the day when sin is paid for. Come together for a special service. Do not eat any food. Bring an offering that is made to me with fire. 
Leviticus23:28 Do not do any work on that day. It is the day when sin is paid for. On that day your sin will be paid for in my sight. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus23:29 Suppose you do eat food on that day. Then you will be cut off from your people. 
Leviticus23:30 I will destroy anyone among your people who does any work on that day. 
Leviticus23:31 You must not do any work at all. That is a law that will last for all time to come. It applies no matter where you live. 
Leviticus23:32 That day is a sabbath for you. You must rest on it. You must not eat anything on that day. You must keep your sabbath from the evening of the ninth day of the month until the following evening. 
Leviticus23:33 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus23:34 Say to the people of Israel, 'On the 15th day of the seventh month my Feast of Booths begins. It lasts for seven days." 
Leviticus23:35  'On the first day you must come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work on that day. 
Leviticus23:36 On each of the seven days bring an offering that is made to me with fire. On the eighth day come together for a special service. Bring an offering that is made to me with fire. That special service is the closing service. Do not do any regular work on that day. 
Leviticus23:37  'Those are my appointed feasts. Tell the people that they must come together for those sacred feasts. During those times, the people must bring offerings that are made to me with fire. They are burnt offerings and grain offerings. They are sacrifices and drink offerings. Each offering must be brought at its required time." 
Leviticus23:38  'The feasts are in addition to my Sabbath days. The offerings are in addition to your gifts and anything you have promised. They are also in addition to all of the offerings you choose to give me. 
Leviticus23:39  'Begin with the 15th day of the seventh month. That is after you have gathered your crops. On that day celebrate my Feast of Booths for seven days. The first day is a day of rest. The eighth day is also a day of rest. 
Leviticus23:40 On the first day you must get the best fruit from the trees. You must also get palm leaves, leafy branches and poplar branches. You must be filled with joy in my sight for seven days. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus23:41  'Celebrate my Feast of Booths for seven days each year. That is a law that will last for all time to come. Celebrate the feast in the seventh month. 
Leviticus23:42 Live in booths for seven days. All of the people of Israel must live in booths. 
Leviticus23:43 Then your children after you will know that I made the people of Israel live in booths. I made them do it after I brought them out of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.' 
Leviticus23:44 So Moses announced to the people of Israel the appointed feasts of the Lord. 
Leviticus24:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus24:2 Command the people of Israel to bring you clear oil that is made from pressed olives. Use it to keep the lamps burning and giving light all the time. 
Leviticus24:3 Aaron must take care of the lamps in my sight from evening until morning all the time. That is a law that will last for all time to come. The lamps are outside the curtain that is in front of the tablets of the covenant in the Tent of Meeting. 
Leviticus24:4 The lamps are on the pure gold lampstand in front of me. They must be taken care of all the time. 
Leviticus24:5 Get fine flour and bake 12 loaves of bread. Use 16 cups of flour for each loaf. 
Leviticus24:6 Place them in two rows. Put six loaves in each row on the table that is made out of pure gold. The table stands in front of me. 
Leviticus24:7 Along each row put some pure incense. It will remind you that all good things come from me. Burn the incense in place of the bread. The incense is an offering that is made to me with fire. 
Leviticus24:8 The bread must be set out in front of me regularly. Do it every Sabbath day. It will be Israel's duty to provide it for all time to come. 
Leviticus24:9 The bread belongs to Aaron and his sons. They must eat it in a holy place. It is a very holy part of their regular share of the offerings that are made to me with fire. 
Leviticus24:10 There was a man who had an Israelite mother. His father was born in Egypt. The man went out among the people of Israel. A fight broke out in the camp between him and an Israelite. 
Leviticus24:11 The son of the Israelite woman spoke evil things against the Lord by using a curse. So the people brought him to Moses. The name of the man's mother was Shelomith. She was the daughter of Dibri. Dibri was from the tribe of Dan. 
Leviticus24:12 The people kept her son under guard until they could find out what the Lord wanted them to do. 
Leviticus24:13 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus24:14 Get the man who spoke evil things against me. Take him outside the camp. All those who heard him say those things must place their hands on his head. Then the whole community must kill him by throwing stones at him. 
Leviticus24:15 Say to the people of Israel, 'If anyone calls down a curse on me, he will be held accountable." 
Leviticus24:16 If anyone speaks evil things against my Name, he must be put to death. The whole community must kill him by throwing stones at him. It does not matter whether he is an outsider or an Israelite. When he speaks evil things against my Name, he must be put to death." 
Leviticus24:17  'If anyone kills another human being, he must be put to death." 
Leviticus24:18 If anyone kills someone's animal, he must pay its owner. A life must be taken for a life." 
Leviticus24:19  'Suppose someone hurts his neighbor. Then what he has done must be done to him. 
Leviticus24:20 A bone must be broken for a bone. An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth. He must be hurt in the same way he hurt someone else. 
Leviticus24:21  'If anyone kills an animal, he must pay its owner. But if he kills a human being, he must be put to death." 
Leviticus24:22 The same law applies whether he is an outsider or an Israelite. I am the Lord your God.' 
Leviticus24:23 Then Moses spoke to the people of Israel. They got the man who had spoken evil things against the Lord. They took him outside the camp. There they killed him by throwing stones at him. The people of Israel did just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Leviticus25:1 The Lord spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai. He said," 
Leviticus25:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'You will enter the land I am going to give you. When you do, you must honor me every seventh year by not farming the land that year." 
Leviticus25:3  'For six years plant your fields. Trim the branches in your vineyards and gather your crops. 
Leviticus25:4  'But the seventh year must be a sabbath for the land. The land must rest during it. It is a sabbath year in my honor. Do not plant your fields. Do not trim the branches in your vineyards. 
Leviticus25:5 Do not gather what grows without being planted. And do not gather the grapes from the vines you have not taken care of. The land must have a year of rest. 
Leviticus25:6  'Anything the land produces during the sabbath year will be food for you. It will be for you and your male and female servants. Your hired workers will eat it. So will people who live with you for a while. 
Leviticus25:7 And so will your livestock and the wild animals that are in your land. Anything the land produces can be eaten. 
Leviticus25:8  'Count off seven sabbaths of years. Count off seven times seven years. The seven sabbaths of years add up to a total of 49 years. 
Leviticus25:9 The tenth day of the seventh month is the day when sin is paid for. On that day blow the trumpet all through your land. 
Leviticus25:10  'Set the 50th year apart. Announce freedom all over the land to everyone who lives there. The 50th year will be a Year of Jubilee for you. Each of you must return to your own family property. And each of you must return to your own tribe. 
Leviticus25:11  'The 50th year will be a Year of Jubilee for you. Do not plant anything. Do not gather what grows without being planted. And do not gather the grapes from the vines you have not taken care of. 
Leviticus25:12 It is a Year of Jubilee. It will be holy for you. Eat only what the fields produce. 
Leviticus25:13  'In the Year of Jubilee all of you must return to your own property. 
Leviticus25:14  'Suppose you sell land to one of your own people. Or you buy land from him. Then do not take advantage of each other. 
Leviticus25:15 The price you pay must be based on the number of years since the last Year of Jubilee. And the price you charge must be based on the number of years left for gathering crops before the next Year of Jubilee. 
Leviticus25:16  'When there are many years left, you must raise the price. When there are only a few years left, you must lower the price. That is because what the man is really selling you is the number of crops the land will produce." 
Leviticus25:17 Do not take advantage of each other. Instead, have respect for me. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus25:18  'Follow my rules. Be careful to obey my laws. Then you will live safely in the land. 
Leviticus25:19 The land will produce its fruit. You will eat as much as you want. And you will live there in safety. 
Leviticus25:20  'Suppose you say, ""In the seventh year we will not plant anything or gather our crops. So what will we eat?""" 
Leviticus25:21 I will send you a great blessing in the sixth year. The land will produce enough for three years. 
Leviticus25:22 While you plant during the eighth year, you will eat food from the old crop. You will continue to eat food from it until the crops from the ninth year are gathered." 
Leviticus25:23  'The land must not be sold without a way of getting it back. That is because it belongs to me. You are only outsiders who rent my land. 
Leviticus25:24 You must make sure that you can buy the land back. That applies to all of the land that belongs to you. 
Leviticus25:25  'Suppose one of your own people becomes poor. And suppose he has to sell some of his land. Then his nearest relative must come and buy back what he has sold. 
Leviticus25:26  'But suppose he does not have anyone to buy it back for him. And suppose things go well for him and he earns enough money to buy it back himself. 
Leviticus25:27 Then he must decide how much the crops have become worth since the time he sold the land. He must take that amount off the price the land was sold for. He must give the man who is selling it back to him the money that is left. Then he can go back to his own property. 
Leviticus25:28  'But suppose he has not earned enough money to pay the man back. Then the buyer he sold the land to will keep it until the Year of Jubilee. At that time it will be returned to him. Then he can go back to his property. 
Leviticus25:29  'Suppose a man sells a house in a city that has a wall around it. Then for a full year after he sells it he has the right to buy it back. 
Leviticus25:30  'But suppose he does not buy it back before the full year has passed. Then the house in the walled city will continue to belong to the buyer and his children after him. It will not be returned to the seller in the Year of Jubilee. 
Leviticus25:31  'But houses in villages that do not have walls around them must be treated like property outside walled cities. Those houses can be bought back at any time. And they must be returned in the Year of Jubilee. 
Leviticus25:32  'The Levites always have the right to buy back their houses in the towns that belong to them. 
Leviticus25:33 So their property among the people of Israel can be bought back. That applies to a house that is sold in any of their towns. Any house that is sold must be returned to its original owner in the Year of Jubilee. That is because the houses of the Levites will always belong to them. 
Leviticus25:34  'But the grasslands around their towns must never be sold. They will belong to them for all time to come. 
Leviticus25:35  'Suppose one of your own people becomes poor. And suppose he can't take care of himself. Then help him just as you would help an outsider or someone who is living among you for a while. In that way, the man who is poor can continue to live among you." 
Leviticus25:36  'Do not charge him interest of any kind. Instead, have respect for me. Then the man who has become poor can continue to live among you." 
Leviticus25:37 If you lend him money, you must not charge him interest. And you must not sell him food for more than it cost you." 
Leviticus25:38  'I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. I did it to give you the land of Canaan. I wanted to be your God. 
Leviticus25:39  'Suppose one of your own people becomes poor. And suppose he sells himself to you. Then do not make him work as a slave. 
Leviticus25:40 You must treat him like a hired worker. Or you must treat him like someone who is living among you for a while.  'He must work for you until the Year of Jubilee. 
Leviticus25:41 Then he and his children must be set free. He will go back to his own tribe. He will go back to the property his people have always owned. 
Leviticus25:42  'The people of Israel are my servants. I brought them out of Egypt. So they must not be sold as slaves. 
Leviticus25:43 Show them pity when you rule over them. Have respect for me. 
Leviticus25:44  'You must get your male and female slaves from the nations that are around you. You can buy slaves from them. 
Leviticus25:45 You can buy as slaves some of the people who are living among you for a while. You can also buy members of their families who were born among you. They will become your property. 
Leviticus25:46 You can leave them to your children as their share of your property. You can make them slaves for life. But when you rule over your own people, you must be kind to them." 
Leviticus25:47  'Suppose an outsider or someone who is living among you for a while becomes rich. Then suppose one of your own people becomes poor. He sells himself to the outsider who is living among you. Or he sells himself to a member of the outsider's family. 
Leviticus25:48 Then he keeps the right to buy himself back after he has sold himself. One of his relatives can buy him back. 
Leviticus25:49 An uncle or a cousin can buy himself back after he has sold himself. In fact, any relative in his tribe can do it. Or suppose things go well for him. Then he can buy himself back." 
Leviticus25:50  'He and his buyer must count the number of years from the time of the sale up to the Year of Jubilee. The price for his freedom must be based on the amount that is paid to a hired man for that number of years. 
Leviticus25:51  'Suppose there are many years until the Year of Jubilee. Then for his freedom he must pay a larger share of the price that was paid for him. 
Leviticus25:52 But suppose there are only a few years left until the Year of Jubilee. Then he must count the number of years that are left. The payment for his freedom must be based on that number. 
Leviticus25:53  'He must be treated as if he had been hired from year to year. You must make sure that his owner is kind to him when he rules over him. 
Leviticus25:54  'Suppose he is not bought back in any of those ways. Then he and his children must still be set free in the Year of Jubilee. 
Leviticus25:55 That is because the people of Israel belong to me. They are my servants. I brought them out of Egypt. I am the Lord their God. 
Leviticus26:1  'Do not make statues of gods for yourselves. Do not set up a likeness of a god or a sacred stone for yourselves. Do not place a carved stone in your land and bow down in front of it. I am the Lord your God. 
Leviticus26:2  'You must always keep my Sabbath days. Have respect for my sacred tent. I am the Lord. 
Leviticus26:3  'Follow my rules. Be careful to obey my commands. 
Leviticus26:4 Then I will send you rain at the right time. The ground will produce its crops. The trees of the field will bear their fruit. 
Leviticus26:5 You will continue to thresh your grain until you gather your grapes. You will continue to gather your grapes until you plant your crops. You will have all you want to eat. And you will live in safety in your land. 
Leviticus26:6  'I will give you peace in the land. You will sleep, and no one will make you afraid. I will remove wild animals from the land. There will not be any war in your country." 
Leviticus26:7 You will hunt down your enemies. You will kill them with your swords. 
Leviticus26:8 Five of you will chase 100. And 100 of you will chase 10,000. You will kill your enemies with your swords." 
Leviticus26:9  'I will look with favor on you. I will give you many children and increase your numbers. And I will keep my covenant with you. 
Leviticus26:10 You will still be eating last year's crops when you have to move them out to make room for new crops. 
Leviticus26:11  'I will live among you. I will not turn away from you. 
Leviticus26:12 I will walk among you. I will be your God. And you will be my people. 
Leviticus26:13 I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. I did not want you to be slaves in Egypt anymore. I threw off your heavy load. I helped you walk with your heads held high. 
Leviticus26:14  'But suppose you will not listen to me. You will not carry out all of my commands. 
Leviticus26:15 You will say no to my rules and turn away from my laws. And you will break my covenant by failing to carry out all of my commands. 
Leviticus26:16 Then here is what I will do to you. All at once I will bring terror on you. I will send sicknesses that will make you weak. I will send fever that will destroy your sight. It will slowly take your life away. When you plant seeds, it will not do you any good. Instead, your enemies will eat what you have planted." 
Leviticus26:17 I will turn against you. Then your enemies will win the battle over you. Those who hate you will rule over you. You will run away even when no one is chasing you. 
Leviticus26:18  'After all of that, suppose you still will not listen to me. Then I will punish you for your sins seven times." 
Leviticus26:19 I will break down your stubborn pride. I will make the sky above you like iron, and it will not rain. I will make the ground under you like bronze, and you will not be able to farm it." 
Leviticus26:20 You will work with all of your strength, but it will not do you any good. That is because your soil will not produce any crops. The trees of the land will not bear any fruit." 
Leviticus26:21  'Suppose you continue to be my enemy. And suppose you still refuse to listen to me. Then I will multiply your troubles many times because of your sins. 
Leviticus26:22 I will send wild animals against you. They will kill your children. They will destroy your cattle. There will be so few of you left that your roads will be deserted. 
Leviticus26:23  'After all of those things, suppose you still do not accept my warnings. And suppose you continue to be my enemy." 
Leviticus26:24 Then I myself will be your enemy. I will make you suffer for your sins again and again. 
Leviticus26:25 I will send war against you to punish you for breaking my covenant. When you go back into your cities, I will send a plague among you. You will be handed over to your enemies." 
Leviticus26:26 I will cut off your supply of bread. Ten women will need only one oven to bake your bread. They will weigh out the bread piece by piece. Even when you eat all of it, it will not be enough to satisfy you." 
Leviticus26:27  'After all of that, suppose you still do not listen to me. And suppose you continue to be my enemy." 
Leviticus26:28 Then I will be angry with you. I will be your enemy. I myself will again punish you for your sins over and over. 
Leviticus26:29 You will eat the dead bodies of your sons. You will also eat the dead bodies of your daughters. 
Leviticus26:30  'I will destroy the high places where you worship other gods. I will pull down your incense altars. I will pile up your dead bodies on the lifeless statues of your gods. And I will turn away from you. 
Leviticus26:31 I will completely destroy your cities. I will destroy your places of worship. The pleasant smell of your offerings will not give me any delight. 
Leviticus26:32  'I will destroy your land so completely that your enemies who live there will be shocked. 
Leviticus26:33 I will scatter you among the nations. I will pull out my sword and hunt you down. Your land and your cities will be completely destroyed. 
Leviticus26:34  'Then the deserted land will enjoy its sabbath years. It will rest. It will not be farmed. It will enjoy its sabbaths. But you will become prisoners in the country of your enemies. 
Leviticus26:35 The land will rest the whole time it is deserted. It was not able to rest during the sabbaths you lived in it. 
Leviticus26:36  'Some of you will be left in the lands of your enemies. I will fill your hearts with fear. The sound of a leaf that is blown by the wind will scare you away. You will run as if you were escaping from swords. You will fall down, even though no one is chasing you." 
Leviticus26:37 You will trip over one another as if you were running away from the battle. You will run away, even though no one is chasing you. You will not be able to stand and fight against your enemies." 
Leviticus26:38  'While you are still scattered among the nations, you will die. The lands of your enemies will destroy you." 
Leviticus26:39 You who are left in those lands will become weaker and weaker. You will die because of your sins and the sins of your parents. 
Leviticus26:40  'But suppose you admit that you and your parents have sinned. You admit the evil and dishonest things you have done against me. And you admit you have become my enemy. 
Leviticus26:41 What you did made me become your enemy. I let your enemies take you into their land. But suppose you stop being stubborn. You stop being proud. And you pay for your sin. 
Leviticus26:42 Then I will remember my covenant with Jacob. I will remember my covenant with Isaac. I will remember my covenant with Abraham. I will remember what I said to them about the land. 
Leviticus26:43  'You will leave the land. It will enjoy its sabbaths while it lies deserted because you are not there. You will pay for your sins because you said no to my laws. You turned away from my rules. 
Leviticus26:44  'But even after all of that, I will not say no to you or turn away from you. I will not destroy you completely in the land of your enemies. I will not break my covenant with you. I am the Lord your God." 
Leviticus26:45 Because of you, I will remember the covenant I made with the people of Israel who lived before you. I brought them out of Egypt to be their God. The nations saw me do it. I am the Lord.' """ 
Leviticus26:46 Those are the orders, the laws and the rules of the covenant the Lord made on Mount Sinai. He made it between himself and the people of Israel through Moses." 
Leviticus27:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Leviticus27:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Suppose someone makes a special promise to set a person apart to serve me. Here is how much it will cost to set that person free from the promise to serve." 
Leviticus27:3  'The cost for a male between the ages of 20 and 60 is 20 ounces of silver. It must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. 
Leviticus27:4 The cost for a female of the same age is 12 ounces of silver. 
Leviticus27:5  'The cost for a male between the ages of five and 20 is eight ounces of silver. The cost for a female of the same age is four ounces of silver. 
Leviticus27:6  'The cost for a male between the ages of one month and five years is two ounces of silver. The cost for a female of the same age is one and a fourth ounces of silver. 
Leviticus27:7  'The cost for a male who is 60 years old or more is six ounces of silver. The cost for a female of the same age is four ounces of silver. 
Leviticus27:8  'But suppose the one who makes the special promise is too poor to pay the required amount. Then he must bring to the priest the person who will be set free. The priest will decide the right value for that person. It will be based on how much the one who makes the promise can afford. 
Leviticus27:9  'Suppose what he promised is an animal that I will accept as an offering. Then the animal that is given to me becomes holy. 
Leviticus27:10 The one who makes the promise must not trade it. He must not trade a good animal for a bad one. And he must not trade a bad animal for a good one. Suppose he chooses one animal instead of another. Then both animals become holy. 
Leviticus27:11  'Suppose the animal he promised is not clean. Suppose I will not accept it as an offering. Then the animal must be brought to the priest. 
Leviticus27:12 He will decide whether it is good or bad. Its value will be what he decides it will be. 
Leviticus27:13 Suppose the owner wants to buy the animal back. Then he must add a fifth to its cost. 
Leviticus27:14  'Suppose a man sets his house apart as something that is holy to me. Then the priest will decide whether it is good or bad. Its value will remain what he decides it will be. 
Leviticus27:15 Suppose the man sets his house apart. And suppose later he wants to buy it back. Then he must add a fifth to its value. The house will belong to him again. 
Leviticus27:16  'Suppose a man sets apart a piece of his family's land to me. Then its value must be decided based on the number of seeds that are required to grow a full crop on it. That value will be 20 ounces of silver for every six bushels of barley seeds. 
Leviticus27:17  'Suppose he sets his field apart during the Year of Jubilee. Then the value that has been decided will not be changed. 
Leviticus27:18 But suppose he sets his field apart after the Year of Jubilee. Then the priest will decide its value based on the number of years that are left until the next Year of Jubilee. The value that was decided will be reduced. 
Leviticus27:19  'Suppose the man who sets his field apart wants to buy it back. Then he must add a fifth to its value. The field will belong to him again. 
Leviticus27:20 But suppose he does not buy the field back. Instead, suppose he sells it to someone else. Then he can never buy it back." 
Leviticus27:21  'When the field is set free in the Year of Jubilee, it will become holy. It will be like a field that is set apart to me. It will become the property of the priests." 
Leviticus27:22  'Suppose a man sets apart to me a field he has bought. And suppose it is not part of his family's land. 
Leviticus27:23 Then the priest will decide its value based on the number of years that are left until the Year of Jubilee. The man must pay that value on the day it is decided. The money is holy. It is set apart for me. 
Leviticus27:24  'In the Year of Jubilee the field will go back to the person the man bought it from. That person is the one who had owned the land before. 
Leviticus27:25  'Every amount of money must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. 
Leviticus27:26  'But no one can set apart the first male animal that is born to its mother. That animal already belongs to me. It does not matter whether it is an ox or a sheep. It belongs to me. 
Leviticus27:27  'Suppose it is an animal that is not clean. Then the owner may buy it back at the value that has been decided. And he must add a fifth to its value. But suppose he does not buy it back. Then it must be sold at the value that has been decided. 
Leviticus27:28  'But nothing a man owns and sets apart to me can be sold or bought back. It does not matter whether it is a person or an animal or a family's land. Everything that is set apart to me is very holy to me. 
Leviticus27:29  'No one who is set apart in a special way to be destroyed can be bought back. He must be put to death. 
Leviticus27:30  'A tenth of everything the land produces belongs to me. That includes grain from the soil and fruit from the trees. It is holy. It is set apart for me. 
Leviticus27:31 Suppose a man buys back some of his tenth. Then he must add a fifth of the cost to it. 
Leviticus27:32  'The whole tenth of his herds and flocks will be holy. They will be set apart for me. That includes every tenth animal that its shepherd marks with his wooden staff. 
Leviticus27:33 The owner must not pick out the good animals from the bad. He must not choose one animal instead of another. But if he does, both animals become holy. They can't be bought back.' """ 
Leviticus27:34 The Lord gave Moses all of those commands on Mount Sinai for the people of Israel. 
Numbers1:1 The Lord spoke to Moses in the Tent of Meeting. It happened in the Desert of Sinai. The Lord spoke to him on the first day of the second month. It was the second year after the people of Israel came out of Egypt. The Lord said," 
Numbers1:2 Count all of the men of Israel. Make a list of them by their tribes and families. List every man by name. List them one by one. 
Numbers1:3 Count all of the men who are able to serve in the army. They must be 20 years old or more. I want you and Aaron to make a list of them company by company. 
Numbers1:4 One man from each tribe must help you. Those who help must be the heads of their families. 
Numbers1:5 Here are the names of the men who must help you. From the tribe of Reuben will come Elizur, the son of Shedeur." 
Numbers1:6 From the tribe of Simeon will come Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers1:7 From the tribe of Judah will come Nahshon, the son of Amminadab." 
Numbers1:8 From the tribe of Issachar will come Nethanel, the son of Zuar." 
Numbers1:9 From the tribe of Zebulun will come Eliab, the son of Helon." 
Numbers1:10 From the tribe of Ephraim will come Elishama, the son of Ammihud. From the tribe of Manasseh will come Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur. Ephraim and Manasseh were Joseph's two sons." 
Numbers1:11 From the tribe of Benjamin will come Abidan, the son of Gideoni." 
Numbers1:12 From the tribe of Dan will come Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers1:13 From the tribe of Asher will come Pagiel, the son of Ocran." 
Numbers1:14 From the tribe of Gad will come Eliasaph, the son of Deuel." 
Numbers1:15 From the tribe of Naphtali will come Ahira, the son of Enan.""" 
Numbers1:16 Those were the men who were appointed from the community. They were the leaders of the tribes of their people. They were the heads of the major families in Israel. 
Numbers1:17 Moses and Aaron went and got the men whose names had been given to them. 
Numbers1:18 Then Moses and Aaron gathered all of the men of Israel together. It was the first day of the second month. The men announced the tribe and family they belonged to. Those who were 20 years old or more were listed by name. They were listed one by one. 
Numbers1:19 Everything was done just as the Lord had commanded Moses. So Moses counted them in the Desert of Sinai. 
Numbers1:20 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Reuben, Israel's oldest son. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed one by one. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families." 
Numbers1:21 The number from the tribe of Reuben was 46,500." 
Numbers1:22 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Simeon. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed one by one. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:23 The number from the tribe of Simeon was 59,300." 
Numbers1:24 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Gad. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:25 The number from the tribe of Gad was 45,650." 
Numbers1:26 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Judah. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:27 The number from the tribe of Judah was 74,600." 
Numbers1:28 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Issachar. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:29 The number from the tribe of Issachar was 54,400." 
Numbers1:30 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Zebulun. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:31 The number from the tribe of Zebulun was 57,400." 
Numbers1:32 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Ephraim, the son of Joseph. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families." 
Numbers1:33 The number from the tribe of Ephraim was 40,500." 
Numbers1:34 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Manasseh, the son of Joseph. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families." 
Numbers1:35 The number from the tribe of Manasseh was 32,200." 
Numbers1:36 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Benjamin. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:37 The number from the tribe of Benjamin was 35,400." 
Numbers1:38 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Dan. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:39 The number from the tribe of Dan was 62,700." 
Numbers1:40 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Asher. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:41 The number from the tribe of Asher was 41,500." 
Numbers1:42 Here is the number of men from the tribe of Naphtali. All of the men who were able to serve in the army were counted. They were 20 years old or more. They were listed by name. They were listed in keeping with the records of their tribes and families. 
Numbers1:43 The number from the tribe of Naphtali was 53,400." 
Numbers1:44 Those were the men Moses and Aaron counted. The 12 leaders of Israel helped them. There was one leader from each tribe. 
Numbers1:45 The men who were counted were able to serve in Israel's army. All of them were 20 years old or more. They were counted family by family. 
Numbers1:46 The total number was 603,550." 
Numbers1:47 But the families of the tribe of Levi were not counted along with the others. 
Numbers1:48 The Lord had spoken to Moses. He had said," 
Numbers1:49 You must not count the men from the tribe of Levi. Do not include them when you list the other men of Israel. 
Numbers1:50 Instead, put the Levites in charge of the holy tent. That is where the tablets of the covenant are kept. The Levites will be in charge of everything that belongs to the holy tent. They must carry the tent and everything that belongs to it. They must take care of it. They must set up camp around it." 
Numbers1:51 When the holy tent must be moved, the Levites must take it down. And when the tent must be set up, the Levites must do it. Anyone else who goes near it will be put to death." 
Numbers1:52 The people of Israel must set up their tents by companies. All of them must be in their own camps under their own flags. 
Numbers1:53 But the Levites must set up their tents around the holy tent where the tablets of the covenant are kept. Then my anger will not fall on the community of Israel. The Levites will be held accountable for taking care of the tent. 
Numbers1:54 The people of Israel did everything just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers2:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers2:2 The people of Israel must camp around the Tent of Meeting. But they must not camp too close to it. All of them must camp under their flags and under the banners of their families. 
Numbers2:3 The companies of the camp of Judah must be on the east side. They must set up camp toward the sunrise. They must camp under their flag. The leader of the tribe of Judah is Nahshon, the son of Amminadab." 
Numbers2:4 There are 74,600 men in his company." 
Numbers2:5 The tribe of Issachar will camp next to them. The leader of the tribe of Issachar is Nethanel, the son of Zuar." 
Numbers2:6 There are 54,400 men in his company." 
Numbers2:7 The tribe of Zebulun will be next. The leader of the tribe of Zebulun is Eliab, the son of Helon." 
Numbers2:8 There are 57,400 men in his company." 
Numbers2:9 So a total of 186,400 men will be set apart for the camp of Judah. They will be arranged company by company. They will start out first." 
Numbers2:10 The companies of the camp of Reuben will be on the south side. They will be under their flag. The leader of the tribe of Reuben is Elizur, the son of Shedeur." 
Numbers2:11 There are 46,500 men in his company." 
Numbers2:12 The tribe of Simeon will camp next to them. The leader of the tribe of Simeon is Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai." 
Numbers2:13 There are 59,300 men in his company." 
Numbers2:14 The tribe of Gad will be next. The leader of the tribe of Gad is Eliasaph, the son of Deuel." 
Numbers2:15 There are 45,650 men in his company." 
Numbers2:16 So a total of 151,450 men will be set apart for the camp of Reuben. They will be arranged company by company. They will start out second." 
Numbers2:17 Then the camp of the Levites will start out. The Tent of Meeting will go with them. They will march in the middle of the other camps. They will start out in the same order as they do when they set up camp. Each one will be in his own place under his flag. 
Numbers2:18 The companies of the camp of Ephraim will be on the west side. They will be under their flag. The leader of the tribe of Ephraim is Elishama, the son of Ammihud." 
Numbers2:19 There are 40,500 men in his company." 
Numbers2:20 The tribe of Manasseh will be next to them. The leader of the tribe of Manasseh is Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur." 
Numbers2:21 There are 32,200 men in his company." 
Numbers2:22 The tribe of Benjamin will be next. The leader of the tribe of Benjamin is Abidan, the son of Gideoni." 
Numbers2:23 There are 35,400 men in his company." 
Numbers2:24 So a total of 108,100 men will be set apart for the camp of Ephraim. They will be arranged company by company. They will start out third." 
Numbers2:25 The companies of the camp of Dan will be on the north side. They will be under their flag. The leader of the tribe of Dan is Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers2:26 There are 62,700 men in his company." 
Numbers2:27 The tribe of Asher will camp next to them. The leader of the tribe of Asher is Pagiel, the son of Ocran." 
Numbers2:28 There are 41,500 men in his company." 
Numbers2:29 The tribe of Naphtali will be next. The leader of the tribe of Naphtali is Ahira, the son of Enan." 
Numbers2:30 There are 53,400 men in his company." 
Numbers2:31 So a total of 157,600 men will be set apart for the camp of Dan. They will start out last. They will march under their flags." 
Numbers2:32 Those are the men of Israel. They were counted in keeping with their families. The total number of all of the men who were in the camps is 603,550, company by company." 
Numbers2:33 But the Levites weren't counted along with the other men of Israel. That's what the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers2:34 So the people of Israel did everything the Lord had commanded Moses. That's the way they set up camp under their flags. And that's the way they started out. Each man marched out with his own tribe and family. 
Numbers3:1 Here is the story of the family of Aaron and Moses. It belongs to the time when the Lord talked with Moses on Mount Sinai. 
Numbers3:2 Aaron's oldest son was Nadab. His other sons were Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
Numbers3:3 Those were the names of Aaron's sons. They were the anointed priests. They were prepared to serve the Lord as priests. 
Numbers3:4 But Nadab and Abihu made an offering to the Lord by using fire that wasn't allowed. So they fell dead in front of him. That happened in the Desert of Sinai. They didn't have any sons. Only Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests while their father Aaron was living. 
Numbers3:5 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers3:6 Bring the men of the tribe of Levi to the priest Aaron. They will help him. 
Numbers3:7 They must work at the Tent of Meeting for Aaron and for the whole community. They must do what needs to be done at the holy tent. 
Numbers3:8 They must take care of everything that is connected with the Tent of Meeting. When they do, they are acting for all of the people of Israel." 
Numbers3:9 Give the Levites to Aaron and his sons. They are the men of Israel who must be given completely to him. 
Numbers3:10 Appoint Aaron and his sons to serve as priests. Anyone else who approaches the sacred tent must be put to death. 
Numbers3:11 The Lord also said to Moses," 
Numbers3:12 I have taken the Levites from among the people of Israel. I have taken them in place of the oldest son who is born to each woman in Israel. The Levites belong to me. 
Numbers3:13 That is because every male that is born first to a mother is mine. In Egypt I struck down all of the males that were born first. I did it when I set apart for myself every male that is born first to a mother in Israel. That is true for men and animals alike. They belong to me. I am the Lord. 
Numbers3:14 The Lord spoke to Moses in the Desert of Sinai. He said," 
Numbers3:15 Count the Levites by their family groups. Count every male who is a month old or more. 
Numbers3:16 So Moses counted them. He did just as the word of the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers3:17 The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
Numbers3:18 The major families from Gershon were Libni and Shimei. 
Numbers3:19 The major families from Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
Numbers3:20 The major families from Merari were Mahli and Mushi. Those were the major families of the Levites. 
Numbers3:21 The families of Libni and Shimei belonged to the family of Gershon. 
Numbers3:22 All of the males who were a month old or more were counted. There were 7,500 of them." 
Numbers3:23 The families of Gershon had to camp on the west side. They had to camp behind the holy tent. 
Numbers3:24 The leader of the families of Gershon was Eliasaph, the son of Lael." 
Numbers3:25 Here are the duties of the families of Gershon at the Tent of Meeting. They were held accountable for taking care of the holy tent and its coverings. They took care of the curtain at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers3:26 They took care of the curtains of the courtyard. They took care of the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard. The courtyard was all around the holy tent and altar. They also took care of the ropes. In fact, they had to take care of everything that was connected with the use of all of those things." 
Numbers3:27 The families of Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel belonged to the family of Kohath." 
Numbers3:28 All of the males who were a month old or more were counted. There were 8,600 of them. The families of Kohath were held accountable for taking care of the sacred tent." 
Numbers3:29 They had to camp on the south side of the holy tent. 
Numbers3:30 The leader of the families of Kohath was Elizaphan, the son of Uzziel." 
Numbers3:31 They were held accountable for taking care of the ark of the covenant. They took care of the table for the holy bread. They took care of the lampstand and the two altars. They took care of the articles that were used for serving in the sacred tent. They also took care of the inner curtain. In fact, they had to take care of everything that was connected with the use of all of those things." 
Numbers3:32 The chief leader of the Levites was Eleazar. He was the son of the priest Aaron. Eleazar was appointed over those who were held accountable for taking care of the sacred tent. 
Numbers3:33 The families of Mahli and Mushi belonged to the family of Merari. 
Numbers3:34 All of the males who were a month old or more were counted. There were 6,200 of them." 
Numbers3:35 The leader of the families of Merari was Zuriel, the son of Abihail. They had to camp on the north side of the holy tent." 
Numbers3:36 They were appointed to take care of the frames of the tent. They took care of its crossbars, posts and bases. They took care of all of its supplies. In fact, they had to take care of everything that was connected with the use of all of those things." 
Numbers3:37 They also took care of the posts of the courtyard that was around the holy tent. And they took care of the bases, tent stakes and ropes." 
Numbers3:38 Moses, Aaron and Aaron's sons had to camp to the east of the holy tent. They had to camp toward the sunrise in front of the Tent of Meeting. They were held accountable for taking care of the sacred tent. They had to do it for the people of Israel. Anyone else who approached the tent would be put to death." 
Numbers3:39 The total number of the Levites was 22,000. They were counted family by family. Every male who was a month old or more was counted. Moses and Aaron counted them, just as the Lord had commanded." 
Numbers3:40 The Lord said to Moses, ""Count the males among the people of Israel who were the oldest sons born in their families. Count all those who are a month old or more. Make a list of their names." 
Numbers3:41 Take the Levites for me in their place. And take the livestock of the Levites in place of all of the male animals in Israel that were born first to their mothers. I am the Lord. 
Numbers3:42 So Moses counted all of the oldest sons in Israel. He did just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers3:43 There were 22,273 of those sons who were a month old or more. They were listed by name." 
Numbers3:44 The Lord also said to Moses," 
Numbers3:45 Take the Levites in place of all the males who were born first in Israel. Also take the livestock of the Levites in place of the livestock of Israel. The Levites belong to me. I am the Lord. 
Numbers3:46 But there are 273 more males who were born first in Israel than there are male Levites. 
Numbers3:47 Collect two ounces of silver for each of them. Weigh it out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. 
Numbers3:48 Give the silver to Aaron and his sons. It will buy the freedom of the additional sons in Israel. 
Numbers3:49 So Moses collected the silver from the additional sons in Israel to buy their freedom. The Levites took the place of all of the others. 
Numbers3:50 Moses collected 35 pounds of silver. It was weighed out in keeping with the weights that are used in the sacred tent. Moses collected it from the oldest sons in Israel. 
Numbers3:51 He gave the silver to Aaron and his sons. He did just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers4:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers4:2 Count the Kohath families of the Levites. Make a list of them family by family. 
Numbers4:3 Count all of the men who are from 30 to 50 years old. Those are the men who must come and serve at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:4 Here is the work the men of Kohath must do at the Tent of Meeting. They must take care of the things that are very holy. 
Numbers4:5 When the camp is ready to move, Aaron and his sons must go into the tent. They must take down the curtain that screens the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. They must cover the ark with the curtain." 
Numbers4:6 Then they must cover that with the hides of sea cows. They must spread a solid blue cloth over the hides. And they must put the poles in place. 
Numbers4:7 They must spread a blue cloth over the table for the holy bread. They must put the plates, dishes and bowls on the cloth. They must also put the jars for drink offerings on it. The bread that is always kept there must remain on it." 
Numbers4:8 They must spread a bright red cloth over everything. Then they must cover that with the hides of sea cows. And they must put the poles of the table in place. 
Numbers4:9 They must get a blue cloth. With it they must cover the lampstand that gives light. They must also cover its lamps, trays and wick cutters. And they must cover all of its jars. The jars are for the olive oil that is used in the lampstand." 
Numbers4:10 Then Aaron and his sons must wrap the lampstand and all of the things that are used with it. They must cover it with the hides of sea cows. And they must put it on a frame to carry it. 
Numbers4:11 They must spread a blue cloth over the gold altar for burning incense. They must cover that with the hides of sea cows. And they must put the poles of the altar in place. 
Numbers4:12 They must get all of the articles that are used for serving in the sacred tent. They must wrap them in a blue cloth. They must cover that with the hides of sea cows. Then they must put the articles on a frame to carry them. 
Numbers4:13 They must remove the ashes from the bronze altar for burnt offerings. They must spread a purple cloth over it. 
Numbers4:14 Then they must place all of the tools on it. The tools are used for serving at the altar. They include the pans for carrying ashes. They also include the meat forks, shovels and sprinkling bowls. Aaron and his sons must cover the altar with the hides of sea cows. And they must put its poles in place." 
Numbers4:15 Aaron and his sons must cover all of the holy articles that belong to the holy tent. Then the men of Kohath must get ready to carry everything. They must do it when the camp is ready to move. But they must not touch the holy things. If they do, they will die. The men of Kohath must carry everything that is in the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers4:16 The priest Eleazar will be in charge of the olive oil for the light. He is the son of Aaron. Eleazar will be in charge of the sweet-smelling incense. He will be in charge of the regular grain offering and the anointing oil. He will be in charge of the entire holy tent. He will also be in charge of everything that is in it. That includes all of the articles that belong to the tent. 
Numbers4:17 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers4:18 Make sure that the Kohath families are not cut off from the Levites. 
Numbers4:19 I want them to live and not die when they come near the very holy things. So here is what you must do for them. Aaron and his sons must go into the sacred tent and tell each man what to do. They must tell each man what to carry. 
Numbers4:20 But the men of Kohath must not go in and look at the holy things. They must not look at them even for a moment. If they do, they will die.""" 
Numbers4:21 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers4:22 Count the Gershon families. Make a list of them family by family. 
Numbers4:23 Count all of the men who are from 30 to 50 years old. Those are the men who must come and serve at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:24 Here is how the Gershon families must serve. They must carry things. 
Numbers4:25 They must carry the curtains of the holy Tent of Meeting. They must carry its covering and the outside covering of the hides of sea cows. They must carry the curtains that cover the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:26 They must carry the curtains of the courtyard. The courtyard is all around the holy tent and altar. They must carry the curtain for the entrance. They must carry the ropes. They must also carry all of the supplies that are used for any purpose in the tent. The men of Gershon must do everything that needs to be done with those things. 
Numbers4:27 All of their work must be done under the direction of Aaron and his sons. That includes carrying and everything else they do. Aaron and his sons must tell them what to carry. And that will be their work. 
Numbers4:28 It is what the Gershon families must do at the Tent of Meeting. They must work under the direction of the priest Ithamar. He is the son of Aaron. 
Numbers4:29 Count the Merari families. Count them family by family. 
Numbers4:30 Count all of the men who are from 30 to 50 years old. Those are the men who must come and serve at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:31 Here is the work they must do at the Tent of Meeting. They must carry the frames of the holy tent. They must carry its crossbars, posts and bases." 
Numbers4:32 They must also carry the posts of the courtyard. The courtyard is all around the holy tent. And they must carry the bases for the posts as well as their tent stakes and ropes. They must also carry all of the supplies and everything that is connected with their use. Tell each man exactly what to carry. 
Numbers4:33 That is the work the Merari families must do at the Tent of Meeting. They must work under the direction of the priest Ithamar. He is the son of Aaron. 
Numbers4:34 Moses, Aaron and the leaders of the community counted the men of Kohath. They counted them family by family." 
Numbers4:35 They counted all of the men who were from 30 to 50 years old. Those were the men who came and served at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:36 There were 2,750 men. They were counted family by family." 
Numbers4:37 That was the total of all of the men in the Kohath families who served at the Tent of Meeting. Moses and Aaron counted them. They did just as the Lord had commanded through Moses. 
Numbers4:38 The men of Gershon were counted family by family. 
Numbers4:39 All of the men who were from 30 to 50 years old were counted. They were the men who came and served at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:40 There were 2,630 men. They were counted family by family." 
Numbers4:41 That was the total of the men in the Gershon families who served at the Tent of Meeting. Moses and Aaron counted them. They did just as the Lord had commanded. 
Numbers4:42 The men of Merari were counted family by family. 
Numbers4:43 All of the men who were from 30 to 50 years old were counted. They were the men who came and served at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers4:44 There were 3,200 men. They were counted family by family." 
Numbers4:45 That was the total of the men in the Merari families. Moses and Aaron counted them. They did just as the Lord had commanded through Moses. 
Numbers4:46 So Moses and Aaron counted all of the Levites. The leaders of Israel helped them. They counted the Levites family by family. 
Numbers4:47 All of the men who were from 30 to 50 years old were counted. They were the men who came and served at the Tent of Meeting. They were also supposed to carry it. 
Numbers4:48 The total number of men was 8,580." 
Numbers4:49 Everything was done as the Lord had commanded through Moses. Each man was given his work. And each one was told what to carry. So they were counted, just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Numbers5:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers5:2 Tell the Israelites that certain people must be sent away from the camp. Command them to send away anyone who has a skin disease. They must send away all those who have a liquid waste coming from their bodies. And they must send away those who are not 'clean' because they have touched a dead body. 
Numbers5:3 That applies to men and women alike. Send them out of the camp. They must not make their camp 'unclean.' That is where I live among them. 
Numbers5:4 So the people of Israel did what the Lord commanded. They sent those who were not clean out of the camp. They did just as the Lord had directed Moses. 
Numbers5:5 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers5:6 Speak to the people of Israel. Say to them, 'Suppose a man or woman does something wrong to someone else. Then that person is not being faithful to the Lord. People like that are guilty." 
Numbers5:7  'They must admit they have committed a sin. They must pay in full for what they did wrong. And they must add a fifth to it. Then they must give all of it to the person they have sinned against. 
Numbers5:8  'But suppose the person has died. And suppose there is not a close relative who can be paid for the sin that was committed. Then what is paid belongs to the Lord. It must be given to the priest. A ram must be given along with it. The ram must be sacrificed to the Lord to pay for the sin. 
Numbers5:9  'All of the sacred gifts the people of Israel bring to a priest will belong to him. 
Numbers5:10 Sacred gifts belong to the man who gives them. But what he gives to a priest will belong to the priest.' 
Numbers5:11 Then the Lord spoke to Moses again. He said," 
Numbers5:12 Speak to the people of Israel. Say to them, 'Suppose a man's wife goes down the wrong path. And suppose she is not faithful to him." 
Numbers5:13 She has sex with another man. And suppose what she has done is hidden from her husband. No one knows she is not clean. So there is no witness against her. And she has not been caught in the act. 
Numbers5:14  'Suppose her husband becomes jealous. He does not trust his wife, and she is really not ""clean."" Or suppose he does not trust her even though she is ""clean.""" 
Numbers5:15 Then he must take his wife to the priest.  'He must also bring an offering. It must be eight cups of barley flour. The offering is for his wife. He must not pour olive oil on it. And he must not put incense on it. It is a grain offering for being jealous. It calls attention to a person's guilt. 
Numbers5:16  'The priest must have her stand in front of the Lord. 
Numbers5:17 He must pour some holy water into a clay jar. He must get some dust from the floor of the holy tent. And he must put it into the water. 
Numbers5:18 The priest must have the woman stand in front of the Lord. Then he must untie her hair. He must place in her hands the offering that calls attention to a person's guilt. It is the grain offering for being jealous. The priest must keep the bitter water with him. It is the water that brings a curse. 
Numbers5:19  'Then the priest must have the woman take an oath. He must say to her, ""Suppose no other man has had sex with you. And suppose you haven't gone down the wrong path. You have kept yourself pure while you are married to your husband. Then may the bitter water that brings a curse not harm you." 
Numbers5:20 But suppose you have gone down the wrong path while you are married to your husband. You have made yourself 'unclean.' You have had sex with a man who isn't your husband. 
Numbers5:21  'At that point the priest must put the woman under the curse of the oath. He must say, ""May the Lord cause your people to call a curse down on you. May he cause them to speak against you. May they do it when the Lord makes your body unable to have children." 
Numbers5:22 May this water that brings a curse enter your body. May it make your body unable to have children.  'Then the woman must say, ""Amen. Let it happen.""" 
Numbers5:23  'The priest must write the curses on a scroll. He must wash them off in the bitter water. 
Numbers5:24 It is the water he will have the woman drink. It is bitter water that brings a curse. It will enter her body. And it will cause her to suffer bitterly. 
Numbers5:25  'The priest must take from her hands the grain offering for being jealous. He must lift it up and wave it in front of the Lord. He must bring it to the altar. 
Numbers5:26 Then the priest must take a handful of the grain offering. It is the offering that calls attention to a person's guilt. He must burn it on the altar. After that, he must have the woman drink the water." 
Numbers5:27  'Suppose she has made herself unclean. She has not been faithful to her husband. And she has drunk the water that brings a curse. Then it will go into her body. It will cause her to suffer bitterly. It will make her body unable to have children. Her people will call a curse down on her. 
Numbers5:28  'But suppose the woman has not made herself unclean. And suppose she is free from anything that is not clean. Then she will be free of guilt. And she will be able to have children. 
Numbers5:29  'That is the law about being jealous. It applies to a woman who has gone down the wrong path. She has made herself unclean while she is married to her husband. 
Numbers5:30 And it applies to a man who becomes jealous. He has doubts about his wife. The priest must have her stand in front of the Lord. He must apply the entire law to her. 
Numbers5:31 The husband will not be guilty of doing anything wrong. But the woman will be punished for her sin.' 
Numbers6:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers6:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Say to them, 'Suppose a man or woman wants to make a special promise. They want to set themselves apart to the Lord for a certain period of time. They want to be Nazirites." 
Numbers6:3  'Then they must not drink any kind of wine. They must not drink vinegar that is made out of wine of any kind. They must not drink grape juice. They must not eat grapes or raisins. 
Numbers6:4 As long as they are Nazirites, they must not eat anything grapevines produce. They must not even eat the seeds or skins of grapes." 
Numbers6:5  'They must not use razors on their heads. They must not cut their hair during the whole time they have set themselves apart to the Lord. They must be holy until that time is over. They must let the hair on their heads grow long. 
Numbers6:6 And they must not go near a dead body during that whole time. 
Numbers6:7  'But what if their father or mother dies? Or what if their brother or sister dies? Then they must not make themselves unclean because of them. The hair on their heads shows they are set apart for God. 
Numbers6:8 During the whole time they are set apart they are holy to the Lord. 
Numbers6:9  'Suppose someone dies suddenly in front of them. That makes the hair they have set apart to the Lord unclean. So they must shave their heads on the day they will be made clean. That is the seventh day. 
Numbers6:10  'Then on the eighth day they must bring two doves. Or they can bring two young pigeons. They must bring them to the priest. He will be at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers6:11 The priest must offer one of the birds as a sin offering. And he must offer the other as a burnt offering. The sacrifices will pay for the sin of the Nazirite man or woman. They sinned by being near a dead body. That same day they must set their heads apart as holy. 
Numbers6:12  'They must set themselves apart to the Lord again. They must do it for the same period of time they had agreed to at first. And they must bring a male lamb that is a year old as a guilt offering. The days before that day do not count. That is because they became unclean during the time they were set apart. 
Numbers6:13  'The time when the Nazirites are set apart will come to an end. Here is the law that applies to them at that time. They must be brought to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers6:14  'There they must sacrifice their offerings to the Lord. They must bring a male lamb that is a year old. It must not have any flaws. It is for a burnt offering. Then they must bring a female lamb that is a year old. It must not have any flaws. It is for a sin offering. And they must bring a ram that does not have any flaws. It is for a friendship offering. 
Numbers6:15  'They must sacrifice the offerings together with their grain offerings and drink offerings. And they must also bring a basket of bread that is made without yeast. The offering must include flat cakes that are made out of fine flour mixed with olive oil. And it must include wafers that are spread with oil. 
Numbers6:16  'The priest must bring all of those things to the Lord. He must sacrifice the sin offering and the burnt offering. 
Numbers6:17 He must bring the basket of bread that is made without yeast. And he must sacrifice the ram. It will be a friendship offering to the Lord. The priest must bring it together with its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers6:18  'Then the Nazirites must shave off the hair they had set apart to the Lord. They must do it at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. And they must put the hair in the fire that burns the sacrifice of the friendship offering. 
Numbers6:19  'After the Nazirites have shaved off their hair, the priest must take a boiled shoulder of the ram. He must remove a cake and a wafer from the basket. They must be made without yeast. And he must place the shoulder and the bread in the hands of the Nazirites." 
Numbers6:20  'Then he must lift up the shoulder and bread and wave them in front of the Lord. They are a wave offering. They are holy. They belong to the priest. The breast that was waved belongs to him. The thigh that was offered belongs to him too. After the offering is waved, the Nazirites can drink wine." 
Numbers6:21  'That is the law of the Nazirites. They promise to sacrifice offerings to the Lord. They do it when they set themselves apart. And they should bring anything else they can afford. They must carry out the promises they have made. They must do it in keeping with the law of the Nazirites.' 
Numbers6:22 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers6:23 Tell Aaron and his sons, 'Here is how I want you to bless the people of Israel. Say to them," 
Numbers6:24  ' May the Lord bless you and take good care of you. 
Numbers6:25 May the Lord smile on you and be gracious to you. 
Numbers6:26 May the Lord look on you with favor and give you his peace. ' 
Numbers6:27 In that way they will put the blessing of my name on the people of Israel. And I will bless them. 
Numbers7:1 Moses finished setting up the holy tent. Then he anointed it with olive oil. He set it apart to the Lord. He did the same thing with everything that belonged to it. He also anointed the altar. And he set apart to the Lord the altar and all of its tools. 
Numbers7:2 Then the leaders of Israel brought their offerings. The leaders were the heads of the families. They were the leaders of the tribes. They were in charge of the men who had been counted. 
Numbers7:3 They brought gifts to the Lord. They brought six covered carts and 12 oxen. Each leader gave an ox. And every two leaders gave a cart. They put their gifts in front of the holy tent. 
Numbers7:4 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers7:5 Accept the gifts from the leaders. I want their gifts to be used in the work at the Tent of Meeting. Give them to the Levites. They need them to do their work. 
Numbers7:6 So Moses gave the carts and the oxen to the Levites. 
Numbers7:7 He gave two carts and four oxen to the men from the family of Gershon. They needed them to do their work. 
Numbers7:8 He gave four carts and eight oxen to the men from the family of Merari. They needed them to do their work. All of those men were under the direction of the priest Ithamar, the son of Aaron." 
Numbers7:9 But Moses didn't give any carts or oxen to the men from the family of Kohath. They had to carry the holy things on their shoulders. They were accountable for the holy things. 
Numbers7:10 When the altar was anointed, the leaders brought their offerings. They placed them in front of the altar. They brought their offerings to set the altar apart." 
Numbers7:11 The Lord had spoken to Moses. He had said, ""Each day one leader must bring his offering. He must bring it to set the altar apart.""" 
Numbers7:12 On the first day Nahshon, the son of Amminadab, brought his offering. Nahshon was from the tribe of Judah." 
Numbers7:13 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:14 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:15 Nahshon brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:16 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:17 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Nahshon, the son of Amminadab, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:18 On the second day Nethanel, the son of Zuar, brought his offering. Nethanel was the leader of the tribe of Issachar." 
Numbers7:19 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The silver plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. Both were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:20 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:21 Nethanel brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:22 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:23 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Nethanel, the son of Zuar, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:24 On the third day Eliab, the son of Helon, brought his offering. Eliab was the leader of the people of Zebulun." 
Numbers7:25 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:26 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:27 Eliab brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:28 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:29 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Eliab, the son of Helon, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:30 On the fourth day Elizur, the son of Shedeur, brought his offering. Elizur was the leader of the people of Reuben." 
Numbers7:31 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:32 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:33 Elizur brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:34 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:35 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Elizur, the son of Shedeur, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:36 On the fifth day Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai, brought his offering. Shelumiel was the leader of the people of Simeon." 
Numbers7:37 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl were filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:38 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:39 Shelumiel brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:40 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:41 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:42 On the sixth day Eliasaph, the son of Deuel, brought his offering. Eliasaph was the leader of the people of Gad." 
Numbers7:43 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:44 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:45 Eliasaph brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:46 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:47 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Eliasaph, the son of Deuel, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:48 On the seventh day Elishama, the son of Ammihud, brought his offering. Elishama was the leader of the people of Ephraim." 
Numbers7:49 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:50 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:51 Elishama brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:52 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:53 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Elishama, the son of Ammihud, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:54 On the eighth day Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur, brought his offering. Gamaliel was the leader of the people of Manasseh." 
Numbers7:55 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:56 He also brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:57 Gamaliel brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:58 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:59 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:60 On the ninth day Abidan, the son of Gideoni, brought his offering. Abidan was the leader of the people of Benjamin." 
Numbers7:61 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:62 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:63 Abidan brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:64 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:65 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Abidan, the son of Gideoni, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:66 On the tenth day Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai, brought his offering. Ahiezer was the leader of the people of Dan." 
Numbers7:67 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:68 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:69 Ahiezer brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:70 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:71 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:72 On the eleventh day Pagiel, the son of Ocran, brought his offering. Pagiel was the leader of the people of Asher." 
Numbers7:73 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:74 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:75 Pagiel brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:76 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:77 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Pagiel, the son of Ocran, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:78 On the twelfth day Ahira, the son of Enan, brought his offering. Ahira was the leader of the people of Naphtali." 
Numbers7:79 He brought one silver plate and one silver sprinkling bowl. The plate weighed three pounds four ounces. The sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. They were weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. Each plate and bowl was filled with fine flour that was mixed with olive oil. It was a grain offering. 
Numbers7:80 He brought one gold dish. It weighed four ounces. It was filled with incense. 
Numbers7:81 Ahira brought one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb that was a year old. They would be sacrificed as a burnt offering." 
Numbers7:82 He brought one male goat to be sacrificed as a sin offering. 
Numbers7:83 He brought two oxen, five rams and five male goats. He also brought five male lambs that were a year old. All of them would be sacrificed as a friendship offering. That was everything that Ahira, the son of Enan, brought as his offering." 
Numbers7:84 Those were the offerings the leaders of the people of Israel brought. They gave them to set the altar apart when it was anointed with olive oil. They gave 12 silver plates, 12 silver sprinkling bowls and 12 gold dishes." 
Numbers7:85 Each silver plate weighed three pounds four ounces. Each sprinkling bowl weighed one pound 12 ounces. The total weight of the silver dishes was 60 pounds. Everything was weighed in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent. 
Numbers7:86 Each of the 12 gold dishes weighed four ounces. They were filled with incense. They were weighed in keeping with the weights used in the sacred tent. The total weight of the gold dishes was three pounds. 
Numbers7:87 The leaders brought 12 young bulls, 12 rams and 12 male lambs that were a year old. That was the total number of animals they gave for the burnt offering. They gave them together with the grain offering. They brought 12 male goats for the sin offering." 
Numbers7:88 The leaders brought 24 oxen, 60 rams, 60 male goats and 60 male lambs that were a year old. That was the total number of animals that were sacrificed as the friendship offering. Those were the offerings they brought to set the altar apart. The leaders brought them after the altar was anointed with oil." 
Numbers7:89 Moses entered the Tent of Meeting. He wanted to speak with the Lord. There Moses heard the Lord talking to him. The Lord's voice was speaking to him from between the two cherubim. The cherubim were over the place where sin is paid for. It was the cover on the ark where the tablets of the covenant were kept. The Lord spoke with Moses there. 
Numbers8:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers8:2 Speak to Aaron. Say to him, 'Set up the seven lamps. They will give light to the area that is in front of the lampstand.' """ 
Numbers8:3 So Aaron did it. He set up the lamps so that they faced forward on the lampstand. He did just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers8:4 The lampstand was made out of hammered gold. From its base to its blooms it was made out of hammered gold. The lampstand was made exactly like the pattern the Lord had shown Moses. 
Numbers8:5 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers8:6 Take the Levites from among the other men of Israel. Make them 'clean' in the usual way. 
Numbers8:7 Here is how to make them pure. Sprinkle the special water on them. Then have them shave their whole bodies. Also have them wash their clothes. That is how they will make themselves pure. 
Numbers8:8 Have them get a young bull along with its grain offering. The offering must be made out of fine flour mixed with olive oil. Then you must get a second young bull. You must sacrifice it as a sin offering. 
Numbers8:9 Bring the Levites to the front of the Tent of Meeting. Gather the whole community of Israel together. 
Numbers8:10 You must bring the Levites to me. The men of Israel must place their hands on them. 
Numbers8:11 Aaron must bring the Levites to me. They are a wave offering from the people of Israel. That is how they will be set apart to do my work. 
Numbers8:12 I want the Levites to place their hands on the heads of the bulls. Then they must sacrifice one bull as a sin offering to me. And they must sacrifice the other as a burnt offering. The blood of the bulls will pay for the sin of the Levites. 
Numbers8:13 Have the Levites stand in front of Aaron and his sons. Then give them as a wave offering to me. 
Numbers8:14 That is how I want you to set the Levites apart from the other men of Israel. The Levites will belong to me. 
Numbers8:15 Make the Levites pure. Give them to me as a wave offering. Then they must come to do their work at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers8:16 They are the men of Israel who will be given to me completely. I have taken them to be my own. I have taken them in place of every son who is born first in his family in Israel. 
Numbers8:17 Every male that is born first in Israel belongs to me. That is true whether it is a man or an animal. I struck down all of the males that were born first to a mother in Egypt. Then I set apart for myself all of the males that were born first in Israel. 
Numbers8:18 And I have taken the Levites in place of all of the sons who are born first in Israel. 
Numbers8:19 I have given the Levites as gifts to Aaron and his sons. I have taken them from all of the men of Israel. I have appointed them to do the work at the Tent of Meeting. They will do it in place of the men of Israel. That is how they will keep the men of Israel from being guilty when they go near the sacred tent. Then no plague will strike the people of Israel when they go near the tent. 
Numbers8:20 So Moses and Aaron and the whole community of Israel did with the Levites just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers8:21 The Levites made themselves pure. They washed their clothes. Then Aaron gave them to the Lord as a wave offering. That's how he paid for their sin to make them pure. 
Numbers8:22 After that, the Levites came to do their work at the Tent of Meeting. They worked under the direction of Aaron and his sons. And so Moses and Aaron and the whole community of Israel did with the Levites just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Numbers8:23 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers8:24 Here is what the Levites must do. Men who are 25 years old or more must come and take part in the work at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers8:25 But when they reach the age of 50, they must not work any longer. They must stop doing their regular work." 
Numbers8:26 They can help their brothers with their duties at the Tent of Meeting. But they themselves should not do the work. That is how you must direct the Levites to do their work. 
Numbers9:1 The Lord spoke to Moses in the Desert of Sinai. It was the first month of the second year after the people came out of Egypt. He said," 
Numbers9:2 Tell the people of Israel to celebrate the Passover Feast. Have them do it at the appointed time. 
Numbers9:3 Celebrate it when the sun goes down on the 14th day of this month. Obey all of its rules and laws. 
Numbers9:4 So Moses told the people of Israel to celebrate the Passover Feast. 
Numbers9:5 They did it in the Desert of Sinai. They celebrated it when the sun went down on the 14th day of the first month. The people of Israel did everything just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers9:6 But some of them couldn't celebrate the Passover Feast on that day. That's because they weren't clean. They had gone near a dead body. So they came to Moses and Aaron that same day. 
Numbers9:7 They said to Moses, ""We went near a dead body. So we aren't 'clean.' But why should we be kept from bringing the Lord's offering at the appointed time? Why shouldn't we bring it along with the other people of Israel?""" 
Numbers9:8 Moses answered them, ""Wait until I find out what the Lord wants you to do.""" 
Numbers9:9 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers9:10 Tell the people of Israel, 'Suppose any of you or your children are not ""clean"" because you have gone near a dead body. Or suppose you are away on a journey. You can still celebrate the Lord's Passover." 
Numbers9:11  'I want you to celebrate it on the 14th day of the second month. You have to do it when the sun goes down. You have to eat the lamb together with bread that is made without yeast. Eat it with bitter plants. 
Numbers9:12 Do not leave any of it until morning. Do not break any of its bones. When you celebrate the Passover Feast, follow all of the rules." 
Numbers9:13  'But suppose a man is clean. He is not on a journey. And he fails to celebrate the Passover Feast. Then he must be cut off from the community of Israel. He did not bring the Lord's offering at the appointed time. He will be punished for his sin. 
Numbers9:14  'What if there is an outsider living among you? And what if he wants to celebrate the Lord's Passover? Then he must obey its rules and laws. You must have the same laws for outsiders as you do for the people of Israel.' 
Numbers9:15 The holy tent was set up. It was the tent where the tablets of the covenant were kept. On the day it was set up, the cloud covered it. From evening until morning the cloud that was above the tent looked like fire." 
Numbers9:16 That's what continued to happen. The cloud covered the tent. At night the cloud looked like fire. 
Numbers9:17 When the cloud lifted from its place above the tent, the people of Israel started out. Where the cloud settled, the people of Israel camped." 
Numbers9:18 When the Lord gave the command, the people of Israel started out. And when he gave the command, they camped. As long as the cloud stayed above the holy tent, they remained in camp." 
Numbers9:19 Sometimes the cloud remained above the tent for a long time. Then the people of Israel obeyed the Lord's order. They didn't start out. 
Numbers9:20 Sometimes the cloud was above the tent for only a few days. When the Lord would give the command, they would camp. Then when he would give the command, they would start out." 
Numbers9:21 Sometimes the cloud stayed only from evening until morning. When it lifted in the morning, they started out. It didn't matter whether it was day or night. When the cloud lifted, the people started out." 
Numbers9:22 It didn't matter whether the cloud stayed above the holy tent for two days or a month or a year. The people of Israel would remain in camp. They wouldn't start out. But when the cloud lifted, they would start out." 
Numbers9:23 When the Lord gave the command, they camped. And when he gave the command, they started out. They obeyed the Lord's order. They obeyed him, just as he had commanded them through Moses." 
Numbers10:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers10:2 Make two trumpets out of hammered silver. Blow them when you want the community to gather together. And blow them when you want the camps to start out. 
Numbers10:3 When both trumpets are blown, the whole community must gather in front of you. They must come to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting." 
Numbers10:4 Suppose only one trumpet is blown. Then the leaders must gather in front of you. They are the heads of the tribes of Israel. 
Numbers10:5 When a trumpet blast is blown, the tribes that are camped on the east side must start out." 
Numbers10:6 When the second blast is blown, the camps on the south side must start out. The blast will tell them when to start." 
Numbers10:7 Blow the trumpets to gather the people together. But do not use the same kind of blast. 
Numbers10:8 The sons of Aaron, the priests, must blow the trumpets. That is a law for you and your children after you for all time to come." 
Numbers10:9 Suppose you go into battle in your own land. And suppose it is against an enemy who is beating you down. Then blow a blast on the trumpets. If you do, I will remember you. I will save you from your enemies. I am the Lord your God." 
Numbers10:10 You must also blow the trumpets when you are happy. Blow them at your appointed feasts. Blow them at your New Moon Feasts. Blow them when you sacrifice your burnt offerings. Blow them when you sacrifice your friendship offerings. They will remind me of you. I am the Lord your God. 
Numbers10:11 It was the 20th day of the second month of the second year. On that day the cloud began to move. It went up from above the holy tent where the tablets of the covenant were kept. 
Numbers10:12 Then the people of Israel started out from the Desert of Sinai. They traveled from place to place. They kept going until the cloud came to rest in the Desert of Paran. 
Numbers10:13 The first time they started out, the Lord commanded Moses to tell them to do it. And they did it." 
Numbers10:14 The companies of the camp of Judah went first. They went out under their flag. Nahshon was their commander. He was the son of Amminadab. 
Numbers10:15 Nethanel was over the company of the tribe of Issachar. Nethanel was the son of Zuar. 
Numbers10:16 Eliab was over the company of the tribe of Zebulun. Eliab was the son of Helon. 
Numbers10:17 The holy tent was taken down. The men of Gershon and Merari started out. They carried the tent. 
Numbers10:18 The companies of the camp of Reuben went next. They went out under their flag. Elizur was their commander. He was the son of Shedeur. 
Numbers10:19 Shelumiel was over the company of the tribe of Simeon. Shelumiel was the son of Zurishaddai. 
Numbers10:20 Eliasaph was over the company of the tribe of Gad. Eliasaph was the son of Deuel. 
Numbers10:21 The men of Kohath started out. They carried the holy things. The holy tent had to be set up before they arrived. 
Numbers10:22 The companies of the camp of Ephraim went next. They went out under their flag. Elishama was their commander. He was the son of Ammihud. 
Numbers10:23 Gamaliel was over the company of the tribe of Manasseh. Gamaliel was the son of Pedahzur. 
Numbers10:24 Abidan was over the company of the tribe of Benjamin. Abidan was the son of Gideoni. 
Numbers10:25 Finally, the companies of the camp of Dan started out. They marched out under their flag. They followed behind all of the other companies and guarded them. Ahiezer was their commander. He was the son of Ammishaddai." 
Numbers10:26 Pagiel was over the company of the tribe of Asher. Pagiel was the son of Ocran. 
Numbers10:27 Ahira was over the company of the tribe of Naphtali. Ahira was the son of Enan. 
Numbers10:28 As the companies of Israel started out, that was the order they marched in." 
Numbers10:29 Moses spoke to Hobab, the son of Reuel. Reuel was Moses' father-in-law. Reuel was from Midian. Moses said to Hobab, ""We're starting out for the place the Lord promised to us. He said to us, 'I will give it to you.' So come with us. We'll treat you well. The Lord has promised to give good things to Israel.""" 
Numbers10:30 Hobab answered, ""No. I can't go. I'm going back to my own land. I'm returning to my own people.""" 
Numbers10:31 But Moses said, ""Please don't leave us. You know where we should camp in the desert. You can be our guide." 
Numbers10:32 So come with us. The Lord will give us good things. We'll share them with you. 
Numbers10:33 So they started out from the mountain of the Lord. They traveled for three days. The ark of the covenant of the Lord went in front of them during those three days. It went ahead of them to find a place for them to rest. 
Numbers10:34 They started out from the camp by day. And the cloud of the Lord was above them. 
Numbers10:35 When the ark started out, Moses said, ""Lord, rise up! Let your enemies be scattered. Let them run away from you.""" 
Numbers10:36 When the ark came to rest, Moses said, ""Lord, return. Return to the many thousands of people in Israel.""" 
Numbers11:1 The people weren't happy about the hard times they were having. The Lord heard what they were saying. It made him burn with anger. Then the Lord sent fire on them. It blazed out among the people. It burned up some of the outer edges of the camp. 
Numbers11:2 The people cried out to Moses. Then he prayed to the Lord. And the fire died down. 
Numbers11:3 So that place was named Taberah. That's because fire from the Lord had blazed out among them there. 
Numbers11:4 Some people who were with them began to long for other food. Again the people of Israel began to cry out. They said, ""We wish we had meat to eat." 
Numbers11:5 We remember the fish we ate in Egypt. It didn't cost us anything. We also remember the cucumbers, melons, leeks, onions and garlic." 
Numbers11:6 But now we've lost all interest in eating. We never see anything but this manna! 
Numbers11:7 The manna was like coriander seeds. It looked like sap from a tree. 
Numbers11:8 The people went around gathering it. Then they ground it in a small mill they held in their hands. Or they crushed it in a stone bowl. They cooked it in a pot. Or they made cakes out of it. It tasted like something made with olive oil. 
Numbers11:9 When the dew came down on the camp at night, the manna also came down." 
Numbers11:10 Moses heard people from every family crying. They were sobbing at the entrances to their tents. The Lord burned with hot anger. So Moses became troubled. 
Numbers11:11 He asked the Lord, ""Why have you brought this trouble on me? Why aren't you pleased with me? Why have you loaded me down with the troubles of all of these people?" 
Numbers11:12 Am I like a mother to them? Are they my children? Why do you tell me to carry them in my arms? Do I have to carry them the way a nurse carries a baby? Do I have to carry them to the land you promised? You took an oath and promised the land to their people of long ago. 
Numbers11:13 Where can I get meat for all of these people? They keep crying out to me. They say, 'Give us meat to eat!'" 
Numbers11:14 I can't carry all of these people by myself. The load is too heavy for me. 
Numbers11:15 Is this how you are going to treat me? If you are pleased with me, just put me to death right now. Don't let me live if I have to see myself destroyed anyway.""" 
Numbers11:16 The Lord said to Moses, ""Bring me 70 of Israel's elders. Bring men that you know are leaders and officials among the people. Have them come to the Tent of Meeting. I want them to stand there with you." 
Numbers11:17 I will come down. I will speak with you there. I will take some of my Spirit that is on you. And I will put the Spirit on them. They will help you carry the people's load. Then you will not have to carry it alone. 
Numbers11:18 Tell the people, 'Set yourselves apart for tomorrow. At that time you will eat meat. The Lord heard you when you cried out. You said, ""We wish we had meat to eat. We were better off in Egypt."" "" 'Now the Lord will give you meat. And you will eat it." 
Numbers11:19 You will not eat it for just one or two days. You will not eat it for just five, ten or 20 days." 
Numbers11:20 Instead, you will eat it for a whole month. You will eat it until it comes out of your nose. You will eat it until you hate it. "" 'The Lord is among you. But you have turned your back on him. You have cried out while he was listening. You have said, ""Why did we ever leave Egypt?"" ' """ 
Numbers11:21 But Moses said, ""Here I am among 600,000 men on the march. And you say, 'I will give them meat to eat for a whole month'!" 
Numbers11:22 Would they have enough if flocks and herds were killed for them? Would they have enough even if all of the fish in the ocean were caught for them? 
Numbers11:23 The Lord answered Moses, ""Am I not strong enough? Now you will see whether what I say will come true for you.""" 
Numbers11:24 So Moses went out. He told the people what the Lord had said. He gathered 70 of their elders together. He had them stand around the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers11:25 Then the Lord came down in the cloud. He spoke with Moses. He took some of his Spirit that was on Moses. And he put the Spirit on the 70 elders. When the Spirit came on them, they prophesied. But they didn't do it again." 
Numbers11:26 Two men had remained in the camp. Their names were Eldad and Medad. They were listed among the elders. But they didn't go out to the Tent of Meeting. In spite of that, the Spirit came on them too. So they prophesied in the camp." 
Numbers11:27 A young man ran up to Moses. He said, ""Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.""" 
Numbers11:28 Joshua spoke up. He was the son of Nun. Joshua had been Moses' helper from the time he was young. He said, ""Moses! Please stop them!""" 
Numbers11:28 Joshua spoke up. He was the son of Nun. Joshua had been Moses' helper from the time he was young. He said, ""Moses! Please stop them!""" 
Numbers11:29 But Moses replied, ""Are you jealous for me? I wish that all of the Lord's people were prophets. And I wish that the Lord would put his Spirit on them.""" 
Numbers11:30 Then Moses and the elders of Israel returned to the camp. 
Numbers11:31 The Lord sent out a wind. It drove quail in from the Red Sea. It brought them down all around the camp. They were about three feet above the ground. They could be seen in every direction as far as a person could walk in a day. 
Numbers11:32 The people went out all day and gathered quail. They gathered them all night and all the next day. No one gathered less than 60 bushels. Then they spread the quail out all around the camp. 
Numbers11:33 But while the meat was still in their mouths, the Lord acted. Before the people could swallow it, his anger burned against them. He struck them with a terrible plague." 
Numbers11:34 So the place was named Kibroth Hattaavah. That's where the bodies of the people who had longed for other food were buried. 
Numbers11:35 From Kibroth Hattaavah the people traveled to Hazeroth. And they stayed there. 
Numbers12:1 Miriam and Aaron began to say bad things about Moses. That's because Moses had married a woman from Cush. 
Numbers12:2 Has the Lord spoken only through Moses? they asked. Hasn't he also spoken through us? The Lord heard what they said. 
Numbers12:3 Moses wasn't very proud at all. In fact, he had less pride than anyone else on the face of the earth." 
Numbers12:4 The Lord spoke to Moses, Aaron and Miriam. He said, ""All three of you, come out to the Tent of Meeting."" So they did." 
Numbers12:5 Then the Lord came down in a pillar of cloud. He stood at the entrance to the tent. And he told Aaron and Miriam to come to him. Both of them stepped forward. 
Numbers12:6 Then the Lord said, ""Listen to my words. ""Suppose one of my prophets is among you. I make myself known to him in visions. I speak to him in dreams." 
Numbers12:7 But that is not true of my servant Moses. He is faithful in everything he does in my house. 
Numbers12:8 With Moses I speak face to face. I speak with him clearly. I do not speak in riddles. I let him see something of what I look like. So why were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? 
Numbers12:9 The anger of the Lord burned against them. And he left them. 
Numbers12:10 When the cloud went up from above the tent, there stood Miriam. She had a disease that made her skin as white as snow. Aaron turned toward her. He saw that she had a skin disease." 
Numbers12:11 So he said to Moses, ""We have committed a very foolish sin. Please don't hold it against us." 
Numbers12:12 Don't let Miriam be like a baby that was born dead. Don't let her look like a dead baby whose body is half eaten away. 
Numbers12:13 So Moses cried out to the Lord. He said, ""God, please heal her!""" 
Numbers12:14 The Lord answered Moses. He said, ""Suppose her father had spit in her face. Then she would have been put to shame for seven days. So keep her outside the camp for seven days. After that, you can bring her back.""" 
Numbers12:15 So Miriam was kept outside the camp for seven days. The people didn't move on until she was brought back. 
Numbers12:16 After that, the people left Hazeroth. They camped in the Desert of Paran." 
Numbers13:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers13:2 Send some men to check out the land of Canaan. I am giving it to the people of Israel. Send one leader from each of Israel's tribes. 
Numbers13:3 So Moses sent them out from the Desert of Paran. He sent them as the Lord had commanded. All of them were leaders of the people of Israel. 
Numbers13:4 Here are their names. There was Shammua from the tribe of Reuben. Shammua was the son of Zaccur. 
Numbers13:5 There was Shaphat from the tribe of Simeon. Shaphat was the son of Hori. 
Numbers13:6 There was Caleb from the tribe of Judah. Caleb was the son of Jephunneh. 
Numbers13:7 There was Igal from the tribe of Issachar. Igal was the son of Joseph. 
Numbers13:8 There was Hoshea from the tribe of Ephraim. Hoshea was the son of Nun. 
Numbers13:9 There was Palti from the tribe of Benjamin. Palti was the son of Raphu. 
Numbers13:10 There was Gaddiel from the tribe of Zebulun. Gaddiel was the son of Sodi. 
Numbers13:11 There was Gaddi from the tribe of Manasseh. Gaddi was the son of Susi. Manasseh was a tribe of Joseph. 
Numbers13:12 There was Ammiel from the tribe of Dan. Ammiel was the son of Gemalli. 
Numbers13:13 There was Sethur from the tribe of Asher. Sethur was the son of Michael. 
Numbers13:14 There was Nahbi from the tribe of Naphtali. Nahbi was the son of Vophsi. 
Numbers13:15 There was Geuel from the tribe of Gad. Geuel was the son of Maki. 
Numbers13:16 Those are the men Moses sent to check out the land. He gave the name Joshua to Hoshea, the son of Nun." 
Numbers13:16 Those are the men Moses sent to check out the land. He gave the name Joshua to Hoshea, the son of Nun." 
Numbers13:17 Moses sent them to check out Canaan. He said, ""Go up through the Negev Desert. Go on into the central hill country." 
Numbers13:18 See what the land is like. See whether the people who live there are strong or weak. See whether they are few or many. 
Numbers13:19 What kind of land do they live in? Is it good or bad? What kind of towns do they live in? Do the towns have high walls around them or not? 
Numbers13:20 How is the soil? Is it rich land or poor land? Are there trees on it or not? Do your best to bring back some of the fruit of the land. It was the season for the first ripe grapes. 
Numbers13:21 So the men went up and checked out the land. They went from the Desert of Zin as far as Rehob. It was in the direction of Lebo Hamath. 
Numbers13:22 They went up through the Negev Desert and came to Hebron. That's where Ahiman, Sheshai and Talmai lived. They belonged to the family line of Anak. Hebron had been built seven years before Zoan. Zoan was a city in Egypt." 
Numbers13:23 The men came to the Valley of Eshcol. There they cut off a branch that had a single bunch of grapes on it. Two of them carried it on a pole between them. They carried some pomegranates and figs along with it. 
Numbers13:24 That place was called the Valley of Eshcol. That's because the men of Israel cut off a bunch of grapes there. 
Numbers13:25 At the end of 40 days, the men returned from checking out the land." 
Numbers13:26 The men came back to Moses, Aaron and the whole community of Israel. The people were at Kadesh in the Desert of Paran. There the men reported to Moses and Aaron and all of the people. They showed them the fruit of the land." 
Numbers13:27 They gave Moses their report. They said, ""We went into the land you sent us to. It really does have plenty of milk and honey! Here's some fruit from the land." 
Numbers13:28 But the people who live there are powerful. Their cities have high walls around them and are very large. We even saw members of the family line of Anak there. 
Numbers13:29 The Amalekites live in the Negev Desert. The Hittites, Jebusites and Amorites live in the central hill country. The Canaanites live near the Mediterranean Sea. They also live along the Jordan River.""" 
Numbers13:30 Then Caleb interrupted the men who were speaking to Moses. He said, ""We should go up and take the land. We can certainly do it.""" 
Numbers13:31 But the men who had gone up with him spoke. They said, ""We can't attack those people. They are stronger than we are.""" 
Numbers13:32 The men spread a bad report about the land among the people of Israel. They said, ""The land we checked out destroys those who live in it. All of the people we saw there are very big and tall." 
Numbers13:33 We saw the Nephilim there. We seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes. And that's also how we seemed to them. The children of Anak came from the Nephilim. 
Numbers14:1 That night all of the people in the community raised their voices. They sobbed out loud. 
Numbers14:2 The people of Israel spoke against Moses and Aaron. The whole community said to them, ""We wish we had died in Egypt or even in this desert." 
Numbers14:3 Why is the Lord bringing us to this land? We're going to be killed with swords. Our enemies will capture our wives and children. Wouldn't it be better for us to go back to Egypt? 
Numbers14:4 They said to one another, ""We should choose another leader. We should go back to Egypt.""" 
Numbers14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell with their faces to the ground. They did it in front of the whole community of Israel that was gathered there. 
Numbers14:6 Joshua, the son of Nun, tore his clothes. So did Caleb, the son of Jephunneh. Joshua and Caleb were two of the men who had checked out the land." 
Numbers14:6 Joshua, the son of Nun, tore his clothes. So did Caleb, the son of Jephunneh. Joshua and Caleb were two of the men who had checked out the land." 
Numbers14:7 They spoke to the whole community of Israel. They said, ""We passed through the land and checked it out. It's very good." 
Numbers14:8 If the Lord is pleased with us, he'll lead us into that land. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey. He'll give it to us." 
Numbers14:9 But don't refuse to obey him. And don't be afraid of the people of the land. We will swallow them up. The Lord is with us. So nothing can save them. Don't be afraid of them. 
Numbers14:10 But all of the people talked about killing Joshua and Caleb by throwing stones at them. Then the glory of the Lord appeared at the Tent of Meeting. All of the people of Israel saw it. 
Numbers14:10 But all of the people talked about killing Joshua and Caleb by throwing stones at them. Then the glory of the Lord appeared at the Tent of Meeting. All of the people of Israel saw it. 
Numbers14:11 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""How long will these people make fun of me? How long will they refuse to believe in me? They refuse even though I have done many miraculous signs among them." 
Numbers14:12 So I will strike them down with a plague. I will destroy them. But I will make you into a greater and stronger nation than they are. 
Numbers14:13 Moses said to the Lord, ""Then the Egyptians will hear about it. You used your power to bring these people up from among them." 
Numbers14:14 And the Egyptians will tell the people who live in Canaan about it. Lord, they have already heard a lot about you. They've heard that you are with these people. They've heard that you have been seen face to face. They've been told that your cloud stays over them. They've heard that you go in front of them in a pillar of cloud by day. They've been told that you go in front of them in a pillar of fire at night." 
Numbers14:15 Suppose you put these people to death all at one time. Then the nations who have heard those things about you will talk. They'll say," 
Numbers14:16 The Lord took an oath. He promised to give these people the land of Canaan. But he wasn't able to bring them into it. So he killed them in the desert.' 
Numbers14:17 Now, Lord, show your strength. You have said," 
Numbers14:18 I am the Lord. I am slow to get angry. I am full of love. I forgive those who sin. I forgive those who refuse to obey. But I do not let guilty people go without punishing them. I punish the children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren for the sin of their parents.'" 
Numbers14:19 Lord, your love is great. So forgive the sin of these people. Forgive them just as you have done from the time they left Egypt until now.""" 
Numbers14:20 The Lord replied, ""I have forgiven them, just as you asked." 
Numbers14:21 You can be sure that I live. You can be sure that my glory fills the whole earth. 
Numbers14:22 And you can be just as sure that these men will not see the land I promised to give them. They have seen my glory. They have seen the miraculous signs I did in Egypt. And they have seen what I did in the desert. But they did not obey me. And they have put me to the test ten times. 
Numbers14:23 So not even one of them will ever see the land I promised with an oath to give to their people of long ago. No one who has made fun of me will ever see it. 
Numbers14:24 But my servant Caleb has a different spirit. He follows me with his whole heart. So I will bring him into the land he went to. And his children after him will receive land there. 
Numbers14:25 The Amalekites and Canaanites are living in the valleys. So turn back tomorrow. Start out toward the desert. Go along the way that leads to the Red Sea. 
Numbers14:26 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers14:27 How long will this evil community speak against me? I have heard these Israelites talk about how unhappy they are. 
Numbers14:28 So tell them, 'Here is what I, the Lord, am announcing. You can be sure that I live. And you can be just as sure that I will do to you the very things that I heard you say." 
Numbers14:29  'You will die in this desert. Every one of you who is 20 years old or more will die. Every one of you who was counted in the list of the people will die. Every one of you who has spoken out against me will be wiped out. 
Numbers14:30 I lifted up my hand and promised with an oath to make this land your home. But now not all of you will enter the land. Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, will enter it. So will Joshua, the son of Nun. They are the only ones who will enter the land." 
Numbers14:30 I lifted up my hand and promised with an oath to make this land your home. But now not all of you will enter the land. Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, will enter it. So will Joshua, the son of Nun. They are the only ones who will enter the land." 
Numbers14:31  'You have said that your enemies would capture your children. But I will bring your children in to enjoy the land you have turned your backs on. 
Numbers14:32 As for you, you will die in the desert." 
Numbers14:33 Your children will be shepherds here for 40 years. They will suffer because you were not faithful. They will suffer until the last of your bodies lies here in the desert. 
Numbers14:34 For 40 years you will suffer for your sins. That is one year for each of the 40 days you checked out the land. You will know what it is like to have me against you.' 
Numbers14:35 I, the Lord, have spoken. You can be sure that I will do those things to this whole evil community. They have joined together against me. They will meet their end in this desert. They will die here.""" 
Numbers14:36 So the Lord struck down the men Moses had sent to check out the land. They had returned and had spread a bad report about the land. And that had made the whole community speak out against Moses. 
Numbers14:37 Those men were to blame for spreading the bad report. So the Lord struck them down. They died of a plague. 
Numbers14:38 Only two of the men who went to check out the land remained alive. One of them was Joshua, the son of Nun. The other was Caleb, the son of Jephunneh." 
Numbers14:38 Only two of the men who went to check out the land remained alive. One of them was Joshua, the son of Nun. The other was Caleb, the son of Jephunneh." 
Numbers14:39 Moses reported to all of the people of Israel what the Lord had said. And they became very sad. 
Numbers14:40 Early the next morning they went up toward the high hill country. We have sinned,"" they said. ""We will go up to the place the Lord promised to give us.""" 
Numbers14:41 But Moses said, ""Why aren't you obeying the Lord's command? You won't succeed." 
Numbers14:42 So don't go up. The Lord isn't with you. Your enemies will win the battle over you. 
Numbers14:43 The Amalekites and Canaanites will meet you on the field of battle. You have turned away from the Lord. So he won't be with you. And you will be killed with swords. 
Numbers14:44 But they wouldn't listen. They still went up toward the high hill country. They went up even though Moses didn't move from the camp. They went even though the ark of the Lord's covenant didn't move from the camp. 
Numbers14:45 Then the Amalekites and Canaanites who lived in that hill country came down. They attacked the people of Israel. They won the battle over them. They chased them all the way to Hormah. 
Numbers15:1 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Say to them, 'You are going to enter the land I am giving you as a home." 
Numbers15:3 When you do, you will give offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. The animals must come from your herd or flock. The offerings will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. They can be either burnt offerings or sacrifices. They can be either for special promises or for feast offerings. Or they can be for offerings you choose to give." 
Numbers15:4  'With each of the offerings, the one who brings it must give the Lord a grain offering. It must be eight cups of fine flour. It must be mixed with a quart of olive oil." 
Numbers15:5 Also prepare a quart of wine as a drink offering. You must give it with each lamb that you bring for the burnt offering or the sacrifice. 
Numbers15:6  'With a ram prepare a grain offering. It must be 16 cups of fine flour. It must be mixed with two and a half pints of olive oil. 
Numbers15:7 You must bring two and a half pints of wine as a drink offering. Offer everything as a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Numbers15:8  'Suppose you prepare a young bull as a burnt offering or sacrifice. You prepare it to keep a special promise to the Lord. Or you prepare it to give as a friendship offering. 
Numbers15:9 Then bring a grain offering with the bull. The grain offering must be 24 cups of fine flour. It must be mixed with two quarts of olive oil. 
Numbers15:10 Also bring two quarts of wine as a drink offering. It will be an offering that is made with fire. It will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Numbers15:11  'Each bull or ram must be prepared in the same way. Each lamb or young goat must also be prepared in that way. 
Numbers15:12 Do it for each animal. Do it for as many animals as you prepare. 
Numbers15:13  'Everyone in Israel must do those things in that way. He must do them when he brings an offering that is made with fire. Offerings like that give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Numbers15:14  'Everyone must always do what the law requires. It does not matter whether he is an outsider or someone else who is living among you. He must do exactly as you do when he brings an offering that is made with fire. Offerings like that give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Numbers15:15  'The community must have the same rules for you and for the outsider who is living among you. That law will last for all time to come. In the sight of the Lord, the law applies to you and the outsider alike." 
Numbers15:16 The same laws and rules will apply to you and to the outsider who is living among you.' 
Numbers15:17 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:18 Speak to the people of Israel. Say to them, 'You are going to enter the land I am taking you to." 
Numbers15:19 You will eat its food. When you do, bring part of it as an offering to the Lord." 
Numbers15:20 Bring a loaf that is made from the first flour you grind. Give it as an offering from the threshing floor. 
Numbers15:21 You must bring the offering to the Lord. You must give it from the first grain you grind. You must do it for all time to come. 
Numbers15:22  'Suppose you fail to keep any of the commands the Lord gave Moses. And suppose you do it without meaning to. 
Numbers15:23 That applies to any of the commands the Lord told Moses to give you. And they are in effect from the day the Lord gave them and for all time to come. 
Numbers15:24 Suppose the community sins without meaning to. And suppose they do not know they have sinned. Then the whole community must offer a young bull. They must offer it for a burnt offering. It will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. Along with it, they must offer its required grain offering and drink offering. They must also offer a male goat for a sin offering." 
Numbers15:25  'With it the priest will pay for the sin of the whole community of Israel. Then they will be forgiven. They did not mean to commit that sin. And they have brought to the Lord an offering that is made with fire for the wrong thing they did. They have brought a sin offering with it. 
Numbers15:26  'The Lord will forgive the whole community of Israel and the outsiders living among them. All of the people had a part in the sin, even though they did not mean to do it." 
Numbers15:27  'But suppose just one person sins without meaning to. Then he must bring a female goat for a sin offering. It must be a year old. 
Numbers15:28 With it the priest will pay for the person's sin in the sight of the Lord. He will do it for the one who did wrong by sinning without meaning to. When the sin is paid for, that person will be forgiven." 
Numbers15:29  'The same law applies to everyone who sins without meaning to. It does not matter whether he is an Israelite or an outsider. 
Numbers15:30  'But suppose someone sins on purpose. It does not matter whether he is an Israelite or an outsider. He speaks evil things against the Lord. He must be cut off from his people. 
Numbers15:31 He has made fun of what the Lord has said. He has broken the Lord's commands. He must certainly be cut off. He is still guilty.' 
Numbers15:32 The people of Israel were in the desert. One Sabbath day, people saw a man gathering wood." 
Numbers15:33 They brought him to Moses and Aaron and the whole community. 
Numbers15:34 They kept him under guard. It wasn't clear what should be done to him. 
Numbers15:35 Then the Lord said to Moses, ""The man must die. The whole community must kill him by throwing stones at him. They must do it outside the camp.""" 
Numbers15:36 So the people took the man outside the camp. There they killed him by throwing stones at him. They did just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers15:37 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers15:38 Speak to the people of Israel. Say to them, 'You must make tassels on the corners of your clothes. A blue cord must be on each tassel. You must do it for all time to come." 
Numbers15:39 You will have the tassels to look at. They will remind you to obey all of the Lord's commands. Then you will be faithful to him. You will not go after what your own hearts and eyes long for. 
Numbers15:40  'You will remember to obey all of my commands. And you will be set apart for your God. 
Numbers15:41 I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord your God.' 
Numbers16:1 Korah was the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath. Kohath was the son of Levi. Korah and certain men from the tribe of Reuben turned against Moses. The men from Reuben were Dathan, Abiram and On. Dathan and Abiram were the sons of Eliab. On was the son of Peleth." 
Numbers16:2 All of those men rose up against Moses. And 250 men of Israel joined them. All of them were known as leaders in the community. They had been appointed as members of the ruling body. 
Numbers16:3 They came as a group to oppose Moses and Aaron. They said to Moses and Aaron, ""You have gone too far! The whole community is holy. Every one in it is holy. And the Lord is with them. So why do you put yourselves above the Lord's people?""" 
Numbers16:4 When Moses heard what they said, he fell with his face to the ground." 
Numbers16:5 Then he spoke to Korah and all of his followers. He said, ""In the morning the Lord will show who belongs to him. He will show who is holy. He'll bring that person near him. He'll bring the man he chooses near him." 
Numbers16:6 Korah, here's what you and all of your followers must do. Get some shallow cups for burning incense." 
Numbers16:7 Tomorrow put fire and incense in them. Offer it to the Lord. The man the Lord chooses will be the one who is holy. You Levites have gone too far! 
Numbers16:8 Moses also said to Korah, ""Listen, you Levites!" 
Numbers16:9 The God of Israel has separated you from the rest of the community of Israel. He has brought you near him to work at the Lord's holy tent. He has given you to the people so that you can serve them. Isn't all of that enough for you? 
Numbers16:10 He has already brought you and all of the other Levites near him. But now you want to be priests too. 
Numbers16:11 You and all of your followers have joined together against the Lord. Why are you telling Aaron you aren't happy with him? 
Numbers16:12 Then Moses sent for Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab. But they said, ""We won't come!" 
Numbers16:13 You have brought us up out of a land that has plenty of milk and honey. You have brought us here to kill us in this desert. Isn't that enough? Now do you also want to act as if you were ruling over us? 
Numbers16:14 Besides, you haven't brought us into a land that has plenty of milk and honey. You haven't given us fields and vineyards of our own. Are you going to poke out the eyes of these men? No! We won't come!""" 
Numbers16:15 Then Moses became very angry. He said to the Lord, ""Don't accept their offering. I haven't taken even a donkey from them. In fact, I haven't done anything wrong to any of them.""" 
Numbers16:16 Moses said to Korah, ""You and all of your followers must stand in front of the Lord tomorrow. You must appear there along with Aaron." 
Numbers16:17 Each man must get his shallow cup. He must put incense in it. There will be a total of 250 incense cups. Each man must bring his cup to the Lord. You and Aaron must also bring your cups. 
Numbers16:18 So each man got his cup. He put fire and incense in it. All of the men came with Moses and Aaron. They stood at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers16:19 Korah gathered all of his followers together at the entrance to the tent. They opposed Moses and Aaron. Then the glory of the Lord appeared to the whole community. 
Numbers16:20 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers16:21 Separate yourselves from these people. Then I can put an end to all of them at once. 
Numbers16:22 But Moses and Aaron fell with their faces to the ground. They cried out, ""God, you are the God who creates the spirits of all people. Will you be angry with the whole community when only one man sins?""" 
Numbers16:23 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers16:24 Tell the community, 'Move away from the tents of Korah, Dathan and Abiram.' """ 
Numbers16:25 Moses got up. He went to Dathan and Abiram. The elders of Israel followed him. 
Numbers16:26 Moses warned the community. He said, ""Move away from the tents of those evil men! Don't touch anything that belongs to them. If you do, the Lord will sweep you away because of all of their sins.""" 
Numbers16:27 So they moved away from the tents of Korah, Dathan and Abiram. Dathan and Abiram had already come out. They were standing at the entrances to their tents. Their wives, children and little ones were standing there with them." 
Numbers16:28 Then Moses said, ""What is about to happen wasn't my idea. The Lord has sent me to do everything I'm doing. Here is how you will know I'm telling you the truth." 
Numbers16:29 Those men won't die a natural death. Something will happen to them that doesn't usually happen to people. If what I'm telling you isn't true, then you will know that the Lord hasn't sent me." 
Numbers16:30 But the Lord will make something totally new happen. The ground will open its mouth and swallow them up. It will swallow up everything that belongs to them. They will go down into the grave alive. When that happens, you will know that those men have made fun of the Lord.""" 
Numbers16:31 As soon as Moses finished speaking all of those words, what he had said came true. The ground under them broke open." 
Numbers16:32 It opened its mouth. It swallowed up those men. In fact, it swallowed up everyone who lived in their houses. It swallowed all of Korah's men. And it swallowed up everything they owned." 
Numbers16:33 They went down into the grave alive. Everything they owned went down with them. The ground closed over them. They died. And so they disappeared from the community. 
Numbers16:34 All of the people of Israel who were around them heard their cries. They ran away from them. They shouted, ""The ground is going to swallow us up too!""" 
Numbers16:35 Then the Lord sent down fire. It burned up the 250 men who were offering the incense. 
Numbers16:36 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers16:37 Speak to the priest Eleazar. He is the son of Aaron. Remind him that the shallow cups are holy. He must take them out of the fire. He must scatter the burning coals away from there. 
Numbers16:38 The men who sinned used those cups. And it cost them their lives. Hammer the cups into bronze sheets that will cover the altar. The cups were offered to the Lord. They have become holy. Let them serve as a warning to the people of Israel. 
Numbers16:39 So the priest Eleazar collected the bronze incense cups. They had been brought by the men who had been burned up. He had them hammered out to cover the altar. 
Numbers16:40 He did just as the Lord had directed Moses to tell him to do. The covering would be a reminder to the people of Israel. It would remind them that no one except a son of Aaron should come and burn incense to the Lord. If people other than priests did that, they would become like Korah and his followers." 
Numbers16:41 The next day the whole community of Israel told Moses and Aaron they weren't happy with them. You have killed the Lord's people,"" they said." 
Numbers16:42 The community gathered together to oppose Moses and Aaron. The people walked toward the Tent of Meeting. Suddenly the cloud covered it. The glory of the Lord appeared. 
Numbers16:43 Then Moses and Aaron went to the front of the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers16:44 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers16:45 Get away from these people. Then I can put an end to all of them at once. And Moses and Aaron fell with their faces to the ground. 
Numbers16:46 Moses said to Aaron, ""Take your incense cup. Put incense in it. And put fire from the altar in it. Then hurry to the people and pay for their sin. The Lord has sent his anger. The plague has started.""" 
Numbers16:47 So Aaron did as Moses said. He ran in among the people. The plague had already started among them. But Aaron offered the incense and paid for their sin. 
Numbers16:48 He stood between those who were alive and those who were dead. And the plague stopped. 
Numbers16:49 But 14,700 people died from the plague. That doesn't include those who had died because of what Korah did." 
Numbers16:50 Then Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. The plague had stopped. 
Numbers17:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers17:2 Speak to the people of Israel. Get 12 wooden staffs from them. Get one from the leader of each of Israel's tribes. Write the name of each man on his staff. 
Numbers17:3 Write Aaron's name on the staff of Levi. There must be one staff for the head of each of Israel's tribes. 
Numbers17:4 Put the staffs in the Tent of Meeting. Place them in front of the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. That is where I meet with you. 
Numbers17:5 The staff that belongs to the man I choose will begin to grow new shoots. The people of Israel are never happy with what you do. I will put an end to what they are saying. 
Numbers17:6 So Moses spoke to the people of Israel. Their leaders gave him 12 wooden staffs. They gave one for the leader of each of Israel's tribes. Aaron's staff was among them. 
Numbers17:7 Moses put the staffs in front of the Lord in the tent where the tablets of the covenant were kept. 
Numbers17:8 The next day Moses entered the tent. He looked at Aaron's staff. It stood for the tribe of Levi. Moses saw that it had not only begun to grow new shoots. It had also produced buds and flowers and almonds. 
Numbers17:9 Then Moses brought out all of the staffs from in front of the Lord. He brought them to all of the people of Israel. They looked at them. And each man took his own staff. 
Numbers17:10 The Lord said to Moses, ""Put Aaron's staff back in front of the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. The staff will be kept there as a warning to those who refuse to obey. They are never happy with what I do. Aaron's staff will put an end to what they are saying. Then they will not die.""" 
Numbers17:11 Moses did just as the Lord commanded him. 
Numbers17:12 The people of Israel said to Moses, ""We'll die! We are lost! All of us are lost!" 
Numbers17:13 Anyone who even comes near the Lord's holy tent will die. Are all of us going to die? 
Numbers18:1 The Lord spoke to Aaron. He said, ""You, your sons and your father's family are in charge of the sacred tent. You will be held accountable for sins that are committed against it. And you and your sons will be held accountable for sins that are committed against the office of priest." 
Numbers18:2 Bring the Levites from your tribe to join you. They will help you when you and your sons serve at the tent where the tablets of the covenant are kept. 
Numbers18:3 They will work for you. They must do everything that needs to be done at the tent. But they must not go near anything that belongs to the sacred tent. And they must not go near the altar. If they do, they and you will die." 
Numbers18:4 They will help you take care of the Tent of Meeting. They will join you in all of the work at the tent. No one else can come near you there. 
Numbers18:5 You will be held accountable for taking care of the sacred tent and the altar. Then my anger will not fall on the people of Israel again. 
Numbers18:6 I myself have chosen the Levites. I have chosen them from among the people of Israel. They are a gift to you. I have set them apart to do the work at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers18:7 But only you and your sons can serve as priests. Only you and your sons can work with everything at the altar and inside the curtain. I am letting you serve as priests. It is a gift from me. Anyone else who comes near the sacred tent must be put to death. 
Numbers18:8 Then the Lord spoke to Aaron. He said, ""I have put you in charge of the offerings that are brought to me. The people of Israel will give me holy offerings. I will give all of their offerings to you and your sons. They are the part that belongs to you. They are your regular share." 
Numbers18:9 You will have a part of the very holy offerings. It is the part that is not burned in the fire. That part belongs to you and your sons. You will have a part of all of the gifts the people bring me as very holy offerings. It does not matter whether they are grain offerings or sin offerings or guilt offerings. 
Numbers18:10 Eat your part as something that is very holy. Every male will eat it. You must consider it holy. 
Numbers18:11 Part of the gifts the people of Israel bring as wave offerings will be set to one side. That part will also belong to you. I will give it to you and your sons and daughters. It is your regular share. Everyone in your home who is 'clean' can eat it. 
Numbers18:12 I will give you all of the finest olive oil and grain the people give me. And I will give you all of the finest fresh wine they give me. They give all of those things as the first share of their harvest. 
Numbers18:13 All of the first shares of the harvest they bring me will belong to you. Everyone in your home who is 'clean' can eat it. 
Numbers18:14 Everything in Israel that is set apart to me belongs to you. 
Numbers18:15 Offer to me every male that is born first to its mother. It belongs to you. That is true for men and animals alike. But you must buy back every oldest son. Suppose certain animals are not 'clean.' Then you must buy back every male that is born first to its mother. 
Numbers18:16 When they are a month old, you must buy them back. You must pay the price to buy them back. The price is set at two ounces of silver. It must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights that are used in the sacred tent." 
Numbers18:17 But you must not buy back any male calf that is born first. And you must not buy back any male sheep or goat that is born first. They are holy. Sprinkle their blood on the altar. And burn their fat as an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to me. 
Numbers18:18 The meat will belong to you. It is just like the breast and the right thigh of the wave offering. Those parts belong to you. 
Numbers18:19 Part of the holy offerings the people of Israel bring to me will be set to one side. No matter what it is, I will give it to you and your sons and daughters. It is your regular share. It is a covenant of salt from me. The salt means that the covenant will last for all time to come for you and your children.""" 
Numbers18:20 The Lord spoke to Aaron. He said, ""You will not receive any part of the land I am giving to Israel. You will not have any share among them. I am your share. I am what you will receive among the people of Israel." 
Numbers18:21 The people of Israel will give me a tenth of everything they produce. And I will give it to the Levites. They serve at the Tent of Meeting. I will give them the tenth for the work they do there. 
Numbers18:22 From now on the people of Israel must not go near the Tent of Meeting. If they do, they will be punished for their sin. They will die." 
Numbers18:23 The Levites will do the work at the Tent of Meeting. They will be held accountable for sins that are committed against it. That is a law that will last for all time to come. The Levites will not receive any share among the people of Israel. 
Numbers18:24 Instead, I will give the Levites the tenth as their share. It is the tenth that the people of Israel bring me as an offering. That is why I said the Levites would not have any share of land among the people of Israel.""" 
Numbers18:25 The Lord said to Moses," 
Numbers18:26 Speak to the Levites. Say to them, 'You will receive the tenth from the people of Israel. I will give it to you as your share. When I do, you must give a tenth of that tenth as an offering to the Lord." 
Numbers18:27 Your offering will be considered as if you gave grain from a threshing floor. It will be considered as juice from a winepress. 
Numbers18:28  'In that way, you also will bring an offering to the Lord. You will bring it from the tenth you receive from the people of Israel. You must give the Lord's part to the priest Aaron. You must bring it from the tenth you receive." 
Numbers18:29 You must bring to the Lord a part of everything that is given to you. It must be the best and holiest part.' 
Numbers18:30 Say to the Levites, 'You must bring the best part. Then it will be considered as if you gave grain from a threshing floor. It will be considered as juice from a winepress." 
Numbers18:31 You and your families can eat the rest of it anywhere. It is your pay for your work at the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers18:32 Bring the best part of what you receive. Then you will not be guilty of holding anything back. You will not make the holy offerings of the people of Israel unclean. You will not die.' 
Numbers19:1 The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers19:2 Here is what the law I have commanded requires. Tell the people of Israel to bring you a young red cow. It must not have any flaws at all. It must never have pulled a load. 
Numbers19:3 Give it to the priest Eleazar. It must be taken outside the camp and killed in front of him. 
Numbers19:4 Then the priest Eleazar must put some of its blood on his finger. He must sprinkle the blood toward the front of the Tent of Meeting. He must do it seven times. 
Numbers19:5 While he watches, the young cow must be burned. Its hide, meat, blood and guts must be burned." 
Numbers19:6 The priest must get some cedar wood, branches of a hyssop plant, and bright red wool. He must throw them on the young cow as it burns." 
Numbers19:7 After that, the priest must wash his clothes. He must also take a bath. Then he can come into the camp. But he will be 'unclean' until evening." 
Numbers19:8 The man who burns the young cow must wash his clothes. He must also take a bath. He too will be 'unclean' until evening. 
Numbers19:9 A man who is 'clean' will gather up the ashes of the young cow. He must put them in a place that is 'clean.' The place must be outside the camp. The ashes will be kept by the community of Israel. They will be added to the special water. The water will be used to make people pure from their sin. 
Numbers19:10 The man who gathers up the ashes of the young cow must wash his clothes. He too will be 'unclean' until evening. That law is for the people of Israel. It is also for the outsiders who are living among them. The law will last for all time to come. 
Numbers19:11 Anyone who touches a dead person's body will be 'unclean' for seven days. 
Numbers19:12 He must make himself pure and clean with the special water. He must do it on the third day. He must also do it on the seventh day. Then he will be 'clean.' But suppose he does not make himself pure and clean on the third and seventh days. Then he will not be 'clean.' 
Numbers19:13 Anyone who touches a dead person's body and does not make himself pure and clean makes my holy tent 'unclean.' He must be cut off from Israel. The special water has not been sprinkled on him. So he is 'unclean.' And he remains 'unclean.' 
Numbers19:14 Here is the law that applies when a person dies in a tent. Anyone who enters the tent will be 'unclean' for seven days. Anyone who is in the tent will also be 'unclean' for seven days. 
Numbers19:15 And anything in it that is open and has no lid will be 'unclean.' 
Numbers19:16 Suppose someone is out in the country. And suppose he touches someone who has been killed with a sword. Or he touches someone who has died a natural death. Or he touches a human bone or a grave. Then anyone who touches any of those things will be 'unclean' for seven days. 
Numbers19:17 Here is what I want you to do for someone who is not 'clean.' Put some ashes from the burned young cow into a jar. Pour fresh water on the ashes. 
Numbers19:18 Then a man who is 'clean' must dip branches of a hyssop plant in the water. He must sprinkle the tent with it. Everything that belongs to the tent must be sprinkled with it. The people who were in the tent must also be sprinkled. Anyone who has touched a human bone or a grave must be sprinkled. So must anyone who has touched someone who has been killed. So must anyone who has touched someone who has died a natural death. 
Numbers19:19 The man who is 'clean' must sprinkle the person who is not. That must be done on the third and seventh days. On the seventh day the person who is not 'clean' must be made pure and clean. The one who is being made 'clean' must wash his clothes. He must take a bath. Then that evening he will be 'clean.' 
Numbers19:20 But what if a person who is 'unclean' does not make himself pure and clean? Then he must be cut off from the community. He has made my holy tent 'unclean.' The special water has not been sprinkled on him. He is not 'clean.' 
Numbers19:21 That law will apply to all of those people for all time to come. The man who sprinkles the special water must also wash his clothes. Anyone who touches the water will be 'unclean' until evening. 
Numbers19:22 Anything that an 'unclean' person touches becomes 'unclean.' And anyone who touches it becomes 'unclean' until evening. 
Numbers20:1 In the first month the whole community of Israel arrived at the Desert of Zin. They stayed at Kadesh. Miriam died there. Her body was also buried there. 
Numbers20:2 The people didn't have any water. So they gathered together to oppose Moses and Aaron. 
Numbers20:3 They argued with Moses. They said, ""We wish we had died when our people fell dead in front of the Lord." 
Numbers20:4 Why did you bring the Lord's people into this desert? We and our livestock will die here. 
Numbers20:5 Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? Why did you bring us to this terrible place? It doesn't have any grain or figs. It doesn't have any grapes or pomegranates. There isn't even any water for us to drink! 
Numbers20:6 Moses and Aaron left the people. They went to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. There they fell with their faces to the ground. Then the glory of the Lord appeared to them. 
Numbers20:7 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers20:8 Get your wooden staff. You and your brother Aaron gather the people together. Then speak to that rock while everyone is watching. It will pour out its water. You will bring water out of the rock for the community. Then they and their livestock can drink it. 
Numbers20:9 So Moses took the wooden staff from the tent. He did just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers20:10 He and Aaron gathered the people together in front of the rock. Moses said to them, ""Listen, you who refuse to obey! Do we have to bring water out of this rock for you?""" 
Numbers20:11 Then Moses raised his arm. He hit the rock twice with his staff. Water poured out. And the people and their livestock drank it. 
Numbers20:12 But the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said, ""You did not trust in me enough to honor me. You did not honor me as the holy God in front of the people of Israel. So you will not bring this community into the land I am giving them.""" 
Numbers20:13 Those were the waters of Meribah. That's where the people of Israel argued with the Lord. And that's where he showed them he is holy. 
Numbers20:14 Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom. The messengers said, ""The nation of Israel is your brother. They say, 'You know about all of the hard times we've had." 
Numbers20:15 Long ago our people went down into Egypt. We lived there for many years. The Egyptians treated us and our people badly. 
Numbers20:16 But we cried out to the Lord. He heard our cry. He sent an angel and brought us out of Egypt.  'Now here we are at the town of Kadesh. It's on the edge of your territory. 
Numbers20:17 Please let us pass through your country. We won't go through any field or vineyard. We won't drink water from any well. We'll travel along the king's highway. We won't turn to the right or the left. We'll just go straight through your territory.' 
Numbers20:18 But the people of Edom answered, ""You can't pass through here. If you try to, we'll march out against you. We'll attack you with our swords.""" 
Numbers20:19 The people of Israel replied, ""We'll go along the main road. We and our livestock won't drink any of your water. If we do, we'll pay for it. We only want to walk through your country. That's all we ask.""" 
Numbers20:20 Again the people of Edom answered, ""You can't pass through here."" Then the people of Edom came out against them. They came with a large and powerful army." 
Numbers20:21 Edom refused to let Israel go through their territory. So Israel turned away from them. 
Numbers20:22 The whole community of Israel started out from Kadesh. They arrived at Mount Hor. 
Numbers20:23 It was near the border of Edom. There the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron. He said," 
Numbers20:24 Aaron will join the members of his family who have already died. He will not enter the land I am giving to the people of Israel. Both of you refused to obey my command. You did it at the waters of Meribah. 
Numbers20:25 So get Aaron and his son Eleazar. Take them up Mount Hor. 
Numbers20:26 Take Aaron's official robes off him. Put them on his son Eleazar. Aaron will die on Mount Hor. He will join the members of his family who have already died. 
Numbers20:27 Moses did just as the Lord had commanded. The three men went up Mount Hor while the whole community was watching. 
Numbers20:28 Moses took Aaron's official robes off him. He put them on Aaron's son Eleazar. And Aaron died there on top of the mountain. Then Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain. 
Numbers20:29 The whole community found out that Aaron had died. So the entire nation of Israel sobbed over him for 30 days. 
Numbers21:1 The Canaanite king of the city of Arad lived in the Negev Desert. He heard that Israel was coming along the road to Atharim. So he attacked the people of Israel. He captured some of them. 
Numbers21:2 Then Israel made a promise to the Lord. They said, ""Hand these people over to us. If you do, we will set their cities apart to you in a special way to be destroyed.""" 
Numbers21:3 The Lord gave Israel what they asked for. He handed the Canaanites over to them. Israel completely destroyed them. They also destroyed their towns. So that place was named Hormah. 
Numbers21:4 The people of Israel traveled from Mount Hor along the way to the Red Sea. They wanted to go around Edom. But they grew tired on the way. 
Numbers21:5 So they spoke against God. They also spoke against Moses. They said to them, ""Why have you brought us up out of Egypt? Do you want us to die here in the desert? We don't have any bread! We don't have any water! And we hate this awful food!""" 
Numbers21:6 Then the Lord sent poisonous snakes among the people of Israel. The snakes bit them. Many of the people died. 
Numbers21:7 The others came to Moses. They said, ""We sinned when we spoke against the Lord and against you. Pray that the Lord will take the snakes away from us."" So Moses prayed for the people." 
Numbers21:8 The Lord said to Moses, ""Make a snake. Put it up on a pole. Then anyone who is bitten can look at it and remain alive.""" 
Numbers21:9 So Moses made a bronze snake. He put it up on a pole. Then anyone who was bitten by a snake and looked at the bronze snake remained alive. 
Numbers21:10 The people of Israel moved on. They camped at Oboth. 
Numbers21:11 Then they started out from Oboth. They camped in Iye Abarim. It's in the desert on the eastern border of Moab. 
Numbers21:12 From there they moved on. They camped in the Zered Valley. 
Numbers21:13 They started out from there and camped by the Arnon River. It's in the desert that spreads out into the territory of the Amorites. The Arnon is the border of Moab. It's between Moab and the Amorites. 
Numbers21:14 Here is what the Book of the Wars of the Lord says about it. It says, ""Sing about Waheb in Suphah and the valleys. Sing about the Arnon" 
Numbers21:15 and the slopes of the valleys. They lead to the place called Ar. They lie along the border of Moab. 
Numbers21:16 From there the people of Israel continued on to Beer. That was the well where the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Gather the people together. I will give them water to drink.""" 
Numbers21:17 Then Israel sang a song. They said, ""Spring up, you well! Sing about it." 
Numbers21:18 Sing about the well the princes dug. Sing about the well the nobles of the people dug. All of their rulers were holding their rods and staffs. Then the people of Israel went from the desert to Mattanah. 
Numbers21:19 They went from Mattanah to Nahaliel. They went from Nahaliel to Bamoth. 
Numbers21:20 And they went from Bamoth to a valley in Moab. It's the valley where the highest slopes of Pisgah look out over a dry and empty land. 
Numbers21:21 The people of Israel sent messengers to speak to Sihon. He was the king of the Amorites. The messengers said to him," 
Numbers21:22 Let us pass through your country. We won't go off the road into any field or vineyard. We won't drink water from any well. We'll travel along the king's highway. We'll just go straight through your territory. 
Numbers21:23 But Sihon wouldn't let Israel pass through his territory. He gathered his whole army together. Then he marched out into the desert against Israel. When he reached Jahaz, he fought against Israel." 
Numbers21:24 But Israel put him to death with their swords. They took over his land. They took everything from the Arnon River to the Jabbok River. But they didn't take over any of the land of the Ammonites. That's because the Ammonites had built strong forts along their border. 
Numbers21:25 The people of Israel captured all of the cities of the Amorites. Then they settled down in them. They captured the city of Heshbon. They also captured all of the settlements that were around it. 
Numbers21:26 Sihon, the king of the Amorites, ruled in Heshbon. He had fought against an earlier king of Moab. Sihon had taken from him all of his land all the way to the Arnon River." 
Numbers21:27 That's why the poets say, ""Come to Heshbon. Let it be built again. Let Sihon's city be made as good as new." 
Numbers21:28 Fire went out from Heshbon. A blaze went out from the city of Sihon. It burned up Ar in Moab. It burned up the citizens who lived on Arnon's hills. 
Numbers21:29 Moab, how terrible it is for you! People of Chemosh, you are destroyed! Chemosh has deserted his sons and daughters. His sons have run away from the battle. His daughters have become prisoners. He has handed all of them over to Sihon, the king of the Amorites." 
Numbers21:30 But we have taken them over. Heshbon is destroyed all the way to Dibon. We have destroyed them as far as Nophah. Nophah goes all the way to Medeba. 
Numbers21:31 So Israel settled in the land of the Amorites. 
Numbers21:32 Moses sent spies to the city of Jazer. The people of Israel captured the settlements that were around it. They drove out the Amorites who were there. 
Numbers21:33 Then they turned and went up along the road toward Bashan. Og was the king of Bashan. He and his whole army marched out. They went to fight against Israel at Edrei. 
Numbers21:34 The Lord said to Moses, ""Do not be afraid of Og. I have handed him over to you. I have given you his whole army. I have also given you his land. Do to him what you did to Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He ruled in Heshbon.""" 
Numbers21:35 So the people of Israel struck Og down. They struck his sons down. And they wiped out his whole army. They didn't leave anyone alive. They took over his land for themselves. 
Numbers22:1 Then the people of Israel traveled to the flatlands of Moab. They camped along the Jordan River across from Jericho. 
Numbers22:2 Balak saw everything that Israel had done to the Amorites. Balak was the son of Zippor. 
Numbers22:3 The people of Moab were terrified because there were so many Israelites. In fact, Moab was filled with panic because of the people of Israel." 
Numbers22:4 The Moabites spoke to the elders of Midian. They said, ""This huge mob is going to lick up everything around us. They'll lick it up as an ox licks up all of the grass in the fields."" Balak, the son of Zippor, was the king of Moab at that time." 
Numbers22:5 He sent messengers to get Balaam. Balaam was the son of Beor. Balaam was at the city of Pethor near the Euphrates River. Pethor was in the land where Balaam had been born. Balak told the messengers to say to Balaam, ""A nation has come out of Egypt. They are covering the face of the land. They've settled down next to me." 
Numbers22:6 So come and put a curse on those people. They are too powerful for me. Maybe I'll be able to win the battle over them. Maybe I'll be able to drive them out of the country. I know that those you bless will be blessed. And I know that those you put a curse on will be cursed. 
Numbers22:7 The elders of Moab and Midian left. They took with them the money they knew Balaam would ask for. They wanted him to use magic and figure things out for them. They came to where Balaam was. And they told him what Balak had said. 
Numbers22:8 Spend the night here,"" Balaam said to them. ""I'll bring you back the answer the Lord gives me."" So the princes of Moab stayed with him." 
Numbers22:9 God came to Balaam. He asked, ""Who are these men who are with you?""" 
Numbers22:10 Balaam said to God, ""Balak king of Moab, the son of Zippor, sent me a message." 
Numbers22:11 He said, 'A nation has come out of Egypt. They are covering the whole surface of the land. So come. Put a curse on them for me. Maybe I'll be able to fight them. Maybe I'll be able to drive them away.' """ 
Numbers22:12 But God said to Balaam, ""Do not go with them. You must not put a curse on those people. I have blessed them.""" 
Numbers22:13 The next morning Balaam got up. He said to Balak's princes, ""Go back to your own country. The Lord won't let me go with you.""" 
Numbers22:14 So the princes of Moab returned to Balak. They said, ""Balaam wouldn't come with us.""" 
Numbers22:15 Then Balak sent other princes. They were more important than the first ones. And there were more of them. 
Numbers22:16 They came to Balaam. They said, ""Balak, the son of Zippor, says, 'Don't let anything keep you from coming to me." 
Numbers22:17 I'll make you very rich. I'll do anything you say. Come. Put a curse on those people for me.' 
Numbers22:18 But Balaam gave them his answer. He said, ""Balak could give me his palace filled with silver and gold. Even then, I still couldn't do anything at all that goes beyond what the Lord my God commands." 
Numbers22:19 Stay here tonight, just as the others did. I'll find out what else the Lord will tell me.""" 
Numbers22:20 That night God came to Balaam. He said, ""These men have come to get you. So go with them. But do only what I tell you to do.""" 
Numbers22:21 Balaam got up in the morning. He put a saddle on his donkey. Then he went with the princes of Moab. 
Numbers22:22 But God was very angry when Balaam went. So the angel of the Lord stood in the road to oppose him. Balaam was riding on his donkey. His two servants were with him. 
Numbers22:23 The donkey saw the angel of the Lord standing in the road. The angel was holding a sword. He was ready for battle. So the donkey left the road and went into a field. Balaam hit the donkey. He wanted to get it back on the road. 
Numbers22:24 Then the angel of the Lord stood in a narrow path. The path went between two vineyards. There were walls on both sides. 
Numbers22:25 The donkey saw the angel of the Lord. So it moved close to the wall. It crushed Balaam's foot against the wall. He hit the donkey again. 
Numbers22:26 Then the angel of the Lord moved on ahead. He stood in a narrow place. There was no room to turn, either right or left." 
Numbers22:27 The donkey saw the angel of the Lord. So it lay down under Balaam. That made him angry. He hit the donkey with his walking stick. 
Numbers22:28 Then the Lord opened the donkey's mouth. It said to Balaam, ""What have I done to you? Why did you hit me those three times?""" 
Numbers22:29 Balaam answered the donkey. He said, ""You have made me look foolish! I wish I had a sword in my hand. If I did, I'd kill you right now.""" 
Numbers22:30 The donkey said to Balaam, ""I'm your own donkey. I'm the one you have always ridden. Haven't you been riding me to this very day? Have I ever made you look foolish before?"" ""No,"" he said." 
Numbers22:31 Then the Lord opened Balaam's eyes. He saw the angel of the Lord standing in the road. He saw that the angel was holding a sword. The angel was ready for battle. So Balaam bowed down. He fell with his face to the ground. 
Numbers22:32 The angel of the Lord spoke to him. He asked him, ""Why have you hit your donkey three times? I have come here to oppose you. What you are doing is foolish." 
Numbers22:33 The donkey saw me. It turned away from me three times. Suppose it had not turned away. Then I would certainly have killed you by now. But I would have spared the donkey. 
Numbers22:34 Balaam spoke to the angel of the Lord. He said, ""I have sinned. I didn't realize you were standing in the road to oppose me. Tell me whether you are pleased with me. If you aren't, I'll go back.""" 
Numbers22:35 The angel of the Lord spoke to Balaam. He said, ""Go with the men. But say only what I tell you to say."" So Balaam went with the princes of Balak." 
Numbers22:36 Balak heard that Balaam was coming. So he went out to meet him. They met at a Moabite town near the Arnon River. The town was on the border of Balak's territory. 
Numbers22:37 Balak spoke to Balaam. He said, ""Didn't I send messengers to you? I wanted you to come quickly. So why didn't you come? I can make you very rich.""" 
Numbers22:38 Well, I've come to you now,"" Balaam replied. ""But I can't say just anything. I can only speak the words God puts in my mouth.""" 
Numbers22:39 Then Balaam went with Balak to Kiriath Huzoth. 
Numbers22:40 Balak sacrificed cattle and sheep. He gave some to Balaam. He also gave some to the princes who were with him. 
Numbers22:41 The next morning Balak took Balaam up to Bamoth Baal. From there he saw part of the people of Israel. 
Numbers23:1 Balaam said to Balak, ""Build me seven altars here. Prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me to sacrifice.""" 
Numbers23:2 Balak did just as Balaam said. The two of them offered a bull and a ram on each altar. 
Numbers23:3 Then Balaam said to Balak, ""Stay here beside your offering. I'll go and try to find out what the Lord wants me to do. Maybe he'll come and meet with me. Then I'll tell you what he says to me."" So Balaam went off to a bare hilltop." 
Numbers23:4 God met with him there. Balaam said, ""I've prepared seven altars. On each altar I've offered a bull and a ram.""" 
Numbers23:5 The Lord put a message in Balaam's mouth. The Lord said, ""Go back to Balak. Give him my message.""" 
Numbers23:6 So Balaam went back to him. He found Balak standing beside his offering. All of the princes of Moab were with him. 
Numbers23:7 Then Balaam spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""Balak brought me from the land of Aram. The king of Moab sent for me from the mountains in the east. 'Come,' he said. 'Put a curse on Jacob's people for me. Come. Speak against Israel.'" 
Numbers23:8 But how can I put a curse on people God hasn't cursed? How can I speak against people the Lord hasn't spoken against? 
Numbers23:9 I see them from the rocky peaks. I view them from the hills. I see a group of people who live by themselves. They don't consider themselves to be one of the nations. 
Numbers23:10 Jacob's people are like the dust of the earth. Can dust be counted? Who can count even a fourth of the people of Israel? Let me die as godly people die. Let my death be like theirs! 
Numbers23:11 Balak said to Balaam, ""What have you done to me? I brought you here to put a curse on my enemies! But all you have done is give them a blessing!""" 
Numbers23:12 He answered, ""I have to speak only the words the Lord puts in my mouth.""" 
Numbers23:13 Then Balak said to Balaam, ""Come with me to another place. You can see the people of Israel from there. You will see only some of them. You won't see all of them. From there, put a curse on them for me.""" 
Numbers23:14 So Balak took Balaam to the field of Zophim. It was on the highest slopes of Pisgah. There he built seven altars. He offered a bull and a ram on each altar. 
Numbers23:15 Balaam said to Balak, ""Stay here beside your offering. I'll meet with the Lord over there.""" 
Numbers23:16 The Lord met with Balaam. He put a message in Balaam's mouth. The Lord said, ""Go back to Balak. Give him my message.""" 
Numbers23:17 So he went to him. He found him standing beside his offering. The princes of Moab were with him. Balak asked him, ""What did the Lord say?""" 
Numbers23:18 Then Balaam spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""Balak, rise up and listen. Son of Zippor, hear me." 
Numbers23:19 God isn't a mere man. He can't lie. He isn't a human being. He doesn't change his mind. He speaks, and then he acts. He makes a promise, and then he keeps it." 
Numbers23:20 He has commanded me to bless Israel. He has given them his blessing. And I can't change it. 
Numbers23:21 I don't see any trouble coming on the people of Jacob. I don't see any suffering in Israel. The Lord their God is with them. The shout of the King is among them. 
Numbers23:22 God brought them out of Egypt. They are as strong as a wild ox. 
Numbers23:23 There isn't any magic that can hurt the people of Jacob. No one can use magic words to harm Israel. Here is what will be said about the people of Jacob. Here is what will be said about Israel. People will say, 'See what God has done!'" 
Numbers23:24 The people of Israel are going to wake up like a female lion. They are going to get up like a male lion. They are like a lion that won't rest until it eats what it has caught. They are like a lion that won't rest until it drinks the blood of what it has killed. 
Numbers23:25 Then Balak said to Balaam, ""Don't put a curse on them at all! And don't give them a blessing at all!""" 
Numbers23:26 Balaam answered, ""Didn't I tell you that I have to do only what the Lord says?""" 
Numbers23:27 Then Balak said to Balaam, ""Come. Let me take you to another place. Perhaps God will be pleased to let you put a curse on them for me from there.""" 
Numbers23:28 Balak took Balaam to the top of Mount Peor. It looks out over a dry and empty land. 
Numbers23:29 Balaam said, ""Build me seven altars here. Prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me to sacrifice.""" 
Numbers23:30 Balak did just as Balaam said. He offered a bull and a ram on each altar. 
Numbers24:1 Balaam saw that the Lord was pleased to give his blessing to Israel. So he didn't try to use evil magic as he had done at other times. Instead, he turned and looked toward the desert." 
Numbers24:2 He looked out and saw Israel. They had set up their camps tribe by tribe. The Spirit of God came on him. 
Numbers24:3 Balaam spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""Here is the message God gave Balaam, the son of Beor. It's the message God gave to the one who sees clearly." 
Numbers24:4 It's the message God gave to the one who hears the words of God. He sees a vision from the Mighty One. He falls down flat with his face toward the ground. His eyes have been opened by the Lord. 
Numbers24:5 People of Jacob, your tents are very beautiful. Israel, the places where you live are very beautiful." 
Numbers24:6 They spread out like valleys. They are like gardens beside a river. They are like aloes the Lord has planted. They are like cedar trees beside a stream. 
Numbers24:7 Their water buckets will run over. Their seeds will have plenty of water. Their king will be greater than King Agag. Their kingdom will be honored. 
Numbers24:8 God brought them out of Egypt. They are as strong as a wild ox. They eat up nations that are at war with them. They break their bones in pieces. They wound them with their arrows. 
Numbers24:9 Like a male lion they lie down and sleep. They are like a female lion. Who dares to wake them up? May those who bless you be blessed! May those who call down a curse on you be cursed! 
Numbers24:10 Then Balak's anger burned against Balaam. He slapped his hands together. He said to Balaam, ""I sent for you to put a curse on my enemies. But you have given them a blessing three times." 
Numbers24:11 Get out of here right away! Go home! I said I'd make you very rich. But the Lord has kept you from getting rich. 
Numbers24:12 Balaam answered Balak, ""Here is what I told the messengers you sent me." 
Numbers24:13 I said, 'Balak could give me his palace filled with silver and gold. Even if I wanted to, I still couldn't do anything at all that goes beyond what the Lord commands. I have to say only what the Lord tells me to say.'" 
Numbers24:14 Now I'm going back to my people. But come. Let me warn you about what these people will do to your people in days to come. 
Numbers24:15 Then Balaam spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""Here is the message God gave Balaam, the son of Beor. It's the message God gave to the one who sees clearly." 
Numbers24:16 It's the message God gave to the one who hears the words of God. The Most High God has given him knowledge. He sees a vision from the Mighty One. He falls down flat with his face toward the ground. His eyes have been opened by the Lord. 
Numbers24:17 I see him, but I don't see him now. I view him, but he isn't near. A star will come from among the people of Jacob. A king will rise up out of Israel. He'll crush the foreheads of the people of Moab. He'll crush the skulls of all of the sons of Sheth." 
Numbers24:18 He'll win the battle over Edom. He'll win the battle over his enemy Seir. But Israel will grow strong. 
Numbers24:19 A ruler will come from among the people of Jacob. He'll destroy those from the city who are still alive. 
Numbers24:20 Then Balaam saw the people of Amalek. He spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""Amalek was the first nation to attack Israel. But they will finally be destroyed.""" 
Numbers24:21 Then he saw the Kenites. He spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""The place where you live is safe. Your nest is on a high cliff." 
Numbers24:22 But you Kenites will be destroyed. Assyria will take you as prisoners. 
Numbers24:23 Then he spoke the message he had received from God. He said, ""Who can live when God does this?" 
Numbers24:24 Ships will come from the shores of Kittim. They will bring Assyria and Eber under their control. But they themselves will also be destroyed. 
Numbers24:25 Then Balaam got up and returned home. And Balak went on his way. 
Numbers25:1 Israel was staying in Shittim. The men of Israel began to commit sexual sins with the women of Moab. 
Numbers25:2 The women invited the men to feasts and sacrifices in honor of their gods. The people ate and bowed down in front of the statues of those gods. 
Numbers25:3 So Israel joined in worshiping the god Baal that was worshiped at Peor. The Lord's anger burned against Israel. 
Numbers25:4 The Lord said to Moses, ""Take all of the leaders of these people. Kill them. Put their dead bodies out in the open. I want to see you do it in the middle of the day. Then my anger will not burn against Israel.""" 
Numbers25:5 So Moses spoke to Israel's judges. He said, ""Some of your men have joined in worshiping the god Baal that is worshiped at Peor. Each of you must kill the men in your tribe who have done that.""" 
Numbers25:6 Then a man of Israel brought a woman of Midian to his family. He did it right in front of the eyes of Moses and the whole community of Israel. They were sobbing at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Numbers25:7 Phinehas was a priest. He was the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron. When Phinehas saw what had happened, he left the people. He took a spear in his hand." 
Numbers25:8 He followed the man into a tent. Phinehas stuck the spear through both the man and the woman. Then the Lord stopped the plague against the people of Israel. 
Numbers25:9 But the plague had already killed 24,000 of them." 
Numbers25:10 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers25:11 Phinehas is a priest. He is the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron. Phinehas has turned my anger away from the people of Israel. I am committed to making sure I am honored among them. And he is as committed as I am. Even though I was angry with them, I did not put an end to them." 
Numbers25:12 So tell Phinehas I am making my covenant with him. It promises to give him peace. 
Numbers25:13 He and his sons after him will have a covenant to be priests forever. That is because he was committed to making sure that I, his God, was honored. In that way he paid for the sin of the people of Israel.""" 
Numbers25:14 The name of the man of Israel who was killed was Zimri. He was the son of Salu. Zimri was killed along with the woman of Midian. Salu was a family leader in the tribe of Simeon. 
Numbers25:15 The name of the woman of Midian who was killed was Cozbi. She was the daughter of Zur. Zur was the chief of a family in Midian. 
Numbers25:16 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers25:17 Treat the people of Midian just as you would treat enemies. Kill them. 
Numbers25:18 After all, they treated you like enemies. They tricked you into worshiping the god Baal that is worshiped at Peor. They also tricked you because of what Cozbi did. She was the woman who was killed when the plague that was connected with Peor came. Cozbi was the daughter of a leader of Midian.""" 
Numbers26:1 After the plague the Lord spoke to Moses and the priest Eleazar. Eleazar was the son of Aaron. The Lord said," 
Numbers26:2 Count all of the men of Israel. Make a list of them by their families. Count all of the men who are able to serve in Israel's army. They must be 20 years old or more. 
Numbers26:3 At that time the people of Israel were on the flatlands of Moab. They were by the Jordan River across from Jericho. Moses and the priest Eleazar spoke with them. They said," 
Numbers26:4 Count all of the men who are 20 years old or more. Do it just as the Lord commanded Moses. Here are the men of Israel who came out of Egypt. 
Numbers26:5 Reuben was Israel's oldest son. Here are the names of his sons. The Hanochite family came from Hanoch. The Palluite family came from Pallu. 
Numbers26:6 The Hezronite family came from Hezron. The Carmite family came from Carmi. 
Numbers26:7 Those were the families of Reuben. The number of men was 43,730." 
Numbers26:8 Eliab was the son of Pallu. 
Numbers26:9 Eliab's sons were Nemuel, Dathan and Abiram. Dathan and Abiram were the same community officials who refused to obey Moses and Aaron. They were among the followers of Korah who refused to obey the Lord." 
Numbers26:10 The ground opened its mouth. It swallowed them up along with Korah. The followers of Korah died when fire burned up 250 men. Their deaths were a warning to the rest of Israel. 
Numbers26:11 But the family line of Korah didn't die out completely. 
Numbers26:12 Here are the names of Simeon's sons. They are listed by their families. The Nemuelite family came from Nemuel. The Jaminite family came from Jamin. The Jakinite family came from Jakin. 
Numbers26:13 The Zerahite family came from Zerah. The Shaulite family came from Shaul. 
Numbers26:14 Those were the families of Simeon. The number of the men was 22,200." 
Numbers26:15 Here are the names of Gad's sons. They are listed by their families. The Zephonite family came from Zephon. The Haggite family came from Haggi. The Shunite family came from Shuni. 
Numbers26:16 The Oznite family came from Ozni. The Erite family came from Eri. 
Numbers26:17 The Arodite family came from Arodi. The Arelite family came from Areli. 
Numbers26:18 Those were the families of Gad. The number of the men was 40,500." 
Numbers26:19 Er and Onan were sons of Judah. But they died in Canaan. 
Numbers26:20 Here are the names of Judah's sons. They are listed by their families. The Shelanite family came from Shelah. The Perezite family came from Perez. The Zerahite family came from Zerah. 
Numbers26:21 Here are the names of the sons of Perez. The Hezronite family came from Hezron. The Hamulite family came from Hamul. 
Numbers26:22 Those were the families of Judah. The number of the men was 76,500." 
Numbers26:23 Here are the names of Issachar's sons. They are listed by their families. The Tolaite family came from Tola. The Puite family came from Puah. 
Numbers26:24 The Jashubite family came from Jashub. The Shimronite family came from Shimron. 
Numbers26:25 Those were the families of Issachar. The number of the men was 64,300." 
Numbers26:26 Here are the names of Zebulun's sons. They are listed by their families. The Seredite family came from Sered. The Elonite family came from Elon. The Jahleelite family came from Jahleel. 
Numbers26:27 Those were the families of Zebulun. The number of the men was 60,500." 
Numbers26:28 Here are the names of Joseph's sons. They are listed by their families. The families came from Manasseh and Ephraim, the sons of Joseph." 
Numbers26:29 Here are the names of Manasseh's sons. The Makirite family came from Makir. Makir was the father of Gilead. The Gileadite family came from Gilead. 
Numbers26:30 Here are the names of Gilead's sons. The Iezerite family came from Iezer. The Helekite family came from Helek. 
Numbers26:31 The Asrielite family came from Asriel. The Shechemite family came from Shechem. 
Numbers26:32 The Shemidaite family came from Shemida. The Hepherite family came from Hepher. 
Numbers26:33 Zelophehad was the son of Hepher. Zelophehad didn't have any sons. All he had was daughters. Their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Numbers26:34 Those were the families of Manasseh. The number of the men was 52,700." 
Numbers26:35 Here are the names of Ephraim's sons. They are listed by their families. The Shuthelahite family came from Shuthelah. The Bekerite family came from Beker. The Tahanite family came from Tahan. 
Numbers26:36 The sons of Shuthelah were the Eranite family. They came from Eran. 
Numbers26:37 Those were the families of Ephraim. The number of the men was 32,500. Those were the sons of Joseph. They are listed by their families." 
Numbers26:38 Here are the names of Benjamin's sons. They are listed by their families. The Belaite family came from Bela. The Ashbelite family came from Ashbel. The Ahiramite family came from Ahiram. 
Numbers26:39 The Shuphamite family came from Shupham. The Huphamite family came from Hupham. 
Numbers26:40 Bela's sons came from Ard and Naaman. The Ardite family came from Ard. The Naamite family came from Naaman. 
Numbers26:41 Those were the families of Benjamin. The number of the men was 45,600." 
Numbers26:42 Here is the name of Dan's son. He is listed by his family. The Shuhamite family came from Shuham. That was the family of Dan. 
Numbers26:43 All of the men in Dan's family were Shuhamites. The number of the men was 64,400." 
Numbers26:44 Here are the names of Asher's sons. They are listed by their families. The Imnite family came from Imnah. The Ishvite family came from Ishvi. The Beriite family came from Beriah. 
Numbers26:45 Here are the names of the families that came from Beriah's sons. The Heberite family came from Heber. The Malkielite family came from Malkiel. 
Numbers26:46 Asher also had a daughter named Serah. 
Numbers26:47 Those were the families of Asher. The number of the men was 53,400." 
Numbers26:48 Here are the names of Naphtali's sons. They are listed by their families. The Jahzeelite family came from Jahzeel. The Gunite family came from Guni. 
Numbers26:49 The Jezerite family came from Jezer. The Shillemite family came from Shillem. 
Numbers26:50 Those were the families of Naphtali. The number of the men was 45,400." 
Numbers26:51 The total number of the men of Israel was 601,730." 
Numbers26:52 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers26:53 I will give the land to them. The amount of land each family receives will be based on the number of its men. 
Numbers26:54 Give a larger share to a larger family. Give a smaller share to a smaller family. Each family will receive its share based on the number of men who are listed in it. 
Numbers26:55 Be sure that you use lots when you give out the land. What each family receives will be based on the number of men listed in its tribe. 
Numbers26:56 Use lots when you give out each share. Use lots for the larger and smaller families alike. 
Numbers26:57 Here are the names of the Levites. They are listed by their families. The Gershonite family came from Gershon. The Kohathite family came from Kohath. The Merarite family came from Merari. 
Numbers26:58 Here are the names of the other Levite families. They are the Libnite family, the Hebronite family, the Mahlite family, the Mushite family, the Korahite family. Amram came from the Kohathite family." 
Numbers26:59 The name of Amram's wife was Jochebed. She was from the family line of Levi. She was born to the Levites in Egypt. Aaron, Moses and their sister Miriam were born in the family line of Amram and Jochebed." 
Numbers26:60 Aaron was the father of Nadab and Abihu. He was also the father of Eleazar and Ithamar. 
Numbers26:61 But Nadab and Abihu made an offering to the Lord by using fire that wasn't allowed. So they died. 
Numbers26:62 The number of male Levites who were a month old or more was 23,000. They weren't listed along with the other men of Israel. That's because they didn't receive a share among them." 
Numbers26:63 Those are the men who were counted by Moses and the priest Eleazar. At that time the people of Israel were on the flatlands of Moab. They were by the Jordan River across from Jericho. 
Numbers26:64 The men of Israel had been counted before in the Sinai Desert by Moses and the priest Aaron. But not one of them was among the men who were counted this time. 
Numbers26:65 The Lord had told the people of Israel at Kadesh Barnea that they would certainly die in the desert. Not one of them was left alive except Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Numbers26:65 The Lord had told the people of Israel at Kadesh Barnea that they would certainly die in the desert. Not one of them was left alive except Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Numbers27:1 The daughters of Zelophehad belonged to the family groups of Manasseh. Zelophehad was the son of Hepher. Hepher was the son of Gilead. Gilead was the son of Makir. Makir was the son of Manasseh. And Manasseh was the son of Joseph. The names of Zelophehad's daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah. They approached" 
Numbers27:2 the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. There they stood in front of Moses and the priest Eleazar. The leaders and the whole community were there too. Zelophehad's daughters said," 
Numbers27:3 Our father died in the Sinai Desert. But he wasn't one of the men who followed Korah. He wasn't one of those who joined together against the Lord. Our father died because of his own sin. He didn't leave any sons. 
Numbers27:4 Why should our father's name disappear from his family just because he didn't have a son? Give us property among our father's relatives. 
Numbers27:5 So Moses brought their case to the Lord. 
Numbers27:6 The Lord spoke to him. He said," 
Numbers27:7 What Zelophehad's daughters are saying is right. You must certainly give them property. Give them a share among their father's relatives. Turn their father's property over to them. 
Numbers27:8 Say to the people of Israel, 'Suppose a man dies who doesn't have a son. Then turn his property over to his daughter." 
Numbers27:9 Suppose the man doesn't have a daughter. Then give his property to his brothers. 
Numbers27:10 Suppose the man doesn't have any brothers. Then give his property to his father's brothers. 
Numbers27:11 Suppose his father doesn't have any brothers. Then give his property to the nearest male relative in his family group. It will belong to him. That is what the law will require of the people of Israel. It is just as the Lord commanded me.' 
Numbers27:12 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""Go up this mountain in the Abarim range. See the land I have given the people of Israel." 
Numbers27:13 After you have seen it, you too will join the members of your family who have already died. You will die, just as your brother Aaron did." 
Numbers27:14 The community refused to obey me at the waters of Meribah Kadesh. At that time, you and Aaron did not obey my command. You did not honor me in front of them as the holy God."" Meribah Kadesh is in the Desert of Zin." 
Numbers27:15 Moses spoke to the Lord. He said," 
Numbers27:16 Lord, you are the God who creates the spirits of all people. Please appoint a man to lead this community." 
Numbers27:17 Put him in charge of them. Tell him to take care of them. Then your people won't be like sheep that don't have a shepherd. 
Numbers27:18 So the Lord said to Moses, ""Joshua, the son of Nun, has the ability to be a wise leader. Get him and place your hand on him." 
Numbers27:18 So the Lord said to Moses, ""Joshua, the son of Nun, has the ability to be a wise leader. Get him and place your hand on him." 
Numbers27:19 Have him stand in front of the priest Eleazar and the whole community. Put him in charge while everyone is watching. 
Numbers27:20 Give him some of your authority. Then the whole community of Israel will obey him. 
Numbers27:21 Joshua will stand in front of the priest Eleazar. Eleazar will help him make decisions. Eleazar will get help from me by using the Urim. Joshua and the whole community of Israel must not make any move at all unless I command them to. 
Numbers27:21 Joshua will stand in front of the priest Eleazar. Eleazar will help him make decisions. Eleazar will get help from me by using the Urim. Joshua and the whole community of Israel must not make any move at all unless I command them to. 
Numbers27:22 Moses did just as the Lord commanded him. He got Joshua and had him stand in front of the priest Eleazar and the whole community. 
Numbers27:22 Moses did just as the Lord commanded him. He got Joshua and had him stand in front of the priest Eleazar and the whole community. 
Numbers27:23 Then Moses placed his hands on Joshua. And he put him in charge of the people. He did just as the Lord had directed through Moses. 
Numbers27:23 Then Moses placed his hands on Joshua. And he put him in charge of the people. He did just as the Lord had directed through Moses. 
Numbers28:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers28:2 Here is a command I want you to give the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Be sure to bring to the Lord the food for the offerings that are made to him with fire. Do it at the appointed time. It will give a smell that is pleasant to him.'" 
Numbers28:3 Tell them, 'Here is the offering you must bring to the Lord. It should be made with fire. Bring him two lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. Bring them as a regular burnt offering each day." 
Numbers28:4  'Prepare one lamb in the morning. Prepare the other when the sun goes down. 
Numbers28:5 Bring a grain offering along with them. It must have eight cups of fine flour. Mix it with a quart of oil that is made from pressed olives. 
Numbers28:6 It is the regular burnt offering. The Lord established it at Mount Sinai. It has a pleasant smell. It is an offering that is made to him with fire. 
Numbers28:7 Along with that, offer a quart of wine as a drink offering. It must be given along with each lamb. Pour out the drink offering to the Lord at the sacred tent." 
Numbers28:8  'Prepare the second lamb when the sun goes down. Sacrifice it along with the same kind of grain offering and drink offering that you prepare in the morning. It is an offering that is made with fire. It gives a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Numbers28:9  'On the Sabbath day, bring an offering of two lambs. They must be a year old. They must not have any flaws. Offer them along with their drink offering. Offer them along with a grain offering of 16 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil." 
Numbers28:10 It is the burnt offering for every Sabbath day. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. 
Numbers28:11  'On the first day of every month, bring to the Lord a burnt offering. Bring two young bulls and one ram. Also bring seven male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws." 
Numbers28:12  'Bring a grain offering along with each bull. It must have 24 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. Bring a grain offering along with the ram. It must have 16 cups of fine flour. Mix it with oil. 
Numbers28:13 Bring a grain offering along with each lamb. It must have eight cups of fine flour. Mix it with oil. It is for a burnt offering. It has a pleasant smell. It is an offering that is made to the Lord with fire. 
Numbers28:14  'Bring a drink offering along with each bull. It must have two quarts of wine. Offer two and a half pints along with the ram. And offer one quart along with each lamb.  'It is the burnt offering for each month. It must be made on the day of each New Moon Feast during the year. 
Numbers28:15  'One male goat must be brought to the Lord as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. 
Numbers28:16  'The Lord's Passover Feast must be held on the 14th day of the first month. 
Numbers28:17 On the 15th day of the month there must be a feast. For seven days eat bread that is made without yeast. 
Numbers28:18 On the first day come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work. 
Numbers28:19  'Bring to the Lord an offering that is made with fire. Bring a burnt offering of two young bulls and one ram. Also bring seven male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers28:20  'Prepare a grain offering along with each bull. The offering must have 24 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. Offer 16 cups along with the ram. 
Numbers28:21 Offer eight cups along with each of the seven lambs. 
Numbers28:22  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It will pay for your sin. 
Numbers28:23 Prepare everything in addition to the regular morning burnt offering. 
Numbers28:24 Prepare the food in that way for the offering that is made with fire. Do it every day for seven days. The offering will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. You must prepare the offering in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. 
Numbers28:25  'On the seventh day come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work. 
Numbers28:26  'On the day you gather the first share of your crops, bring to the Lord an offering of your first grain. Do it during the Feast of Weeks. Come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work." 
Numbers28:27  'Bring a burnt offering of two young bulls and one ram. Also bring seven male lambs that are a year old. The offering will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. 
Numbers28:28  'Bring a grain offering along with each bull. It must have 24 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. Offer 16 cups along with the ram. 
Numbers28:29 Offer eight cups along with each of the seven lambs. 
Numbers28:30  'Include a male goat to pay for your sin. 
Numbers28:31  'Prepare everything along with the drink offerings. Do it in addition to the regular burnt offering and its grain offering. Be sure the animals do not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:1  'On the first day of the seventh month, come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work. Blow the trumpets on that day." 
Numbers29:2  'Prepare a burnt offering. It will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. Prepare one young bull and one ram. Also prepare seven male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:3  'Prepare a grain offering along with the bull. It must have 24 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. Offer 16 cups along with the ram. 
Numbers29:4 Offer eight cups along with each of the seven lambs. 
Numbers29:5  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It will pay for your sin. 
Numbers29:6  'Each month and each day you must bring burnt offerings. Bring them along with their grain offerings and drink offerings as they are required.  'The offerings for the Feast of Trumpets are in addition to them. They are offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. They have a pleasant smell. 
Numbers29:7  'On the tenth day of the seventh month, come together for a special service. You must not eat anything on that day. You must not do any work on it." 
Numbers29:8  'Bring a burnt offering. It will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. Bring one young bull and one ram. Also bring seven male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:9  'Prepare a grain offering along with the bull. It must have 24 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. Offer 16 cups along with the ram. 
Numbers29:10 Offer eight cups along with each of the seven lambs. 
Numbers29:11  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the offering that pays for sin. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering along with its grain offering. It is also in addition to their drink offerings. 
Numbers29:12  'On the 15th day of the seventh month, come together for a special service. Do not do any regular work. Celebrate the Feast of Booths in honor of the Lord for seven days." 
Numbers29:13  'Bring an offering that is made with fire. It will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. Bring a burnt offering of 13 young bulls and two rams. Also bring 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:14  'Prepare a grain offering along with each of the 13 bulls. It must have 24 cups of fine flour. Mix it with olive oil. Offer 16 cups along with each of the two rams. 
Numbers29:15 Offer eight cups along with each of the 14 lambs. 
Numbers29:16  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:17  'On the second day prepare 12 young bulls and two rams. Also prepare 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:18  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bulls, rams and lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:19  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering along with its grain offering. It is also in addition to their drink offerings. 
Numbers29:20  'On the third day prepare 11 bulls and two rams. Also prepare 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:21  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bulls, rams and lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:22  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:23  'On the fourth day prepare ten bulls and two rams. Also prepare 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:24  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bulls, rams and lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:25  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:26  'On the fifth day prepare nine bulls and two rams. Also prepare 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:27  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bulls, rams and lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:28  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:29  'On the sixth day prepare eight bulls and two rams. Also prepare 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:30  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bulls, rams and lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:31  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:32  'On the seventh day prepare seven bulls and two rams. Also prepare 14 male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:33  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bulls, rams and lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:34  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to its grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:35  'On the eighth day come together for a sacred service. Do not do any regular work. 
Numbers29:36  'Bring an offering that is made with fire. It will give a smell that is pleasant to the Lord. Bring a burnt offering of one bull and one ram. Also bring seven male lambs that are a year old. They must not have any flaws. 
Numbers29:37  'Prepare their grain offerings and drink offerings. Prepare them along with the bull, the ram and the lambs. Prepare them in keeping with the required number." 
Numbers29:38  'Include a male goat as a sin offering. It is in addition to the regular burnt offering. It is also in addition to the grain offering and drink offering. 
Numbers29:39  'Here are the offerings you must prepare for the Lord at your appointed feasts. They are burnt offerings, grain offerings, drink offerings and friendship offerings. They are in addition to the offerings you bring to keep a special promise you make to the Lord. They are also in addition to the offerings you choose to give.' """ 
Numbers29:40 Moses told the people of Israel everything the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers30:1 Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of Israel. He said, ""Here is what the Lord commands." 
Numbers30:2 Suppose a man makes a special promise to the Lord. Or suppose he takes an oath and agrees to do something. Then he must keep his promise. He must do everything he said he would do. 
Numbers30:3 Suppose a young woman is still living in her father's house. She makes a special promise to the Lord. Or she takes an oath and agrees to do something. 
Numbers30:4 Suppose her father hears about her promise or oath. And he doesn't say anything to her about it. Then she must keep her promise. She must do what she agreed to do. 
Numbers30:5 But suppose her father doesn't allow her to keep her promises when he hears about them. Then she doesn't have to do what she promised or agreed to do. The Lord will set her free. He'll do it because her father hasn't allowed her to keep her promises. 
Numbers30:6 Suppose she gets married after she makes a special promise. Or she gets married after agreeing to do something without thinking it through. 
Numbers30:7 Suppose her husband hears about what she did. And he doesn't say anything to her about it. Then she must keep her promise. She must do what she agreed to do. 
Numbers30:8 But suppose her husband doesn't allow her to keep her promises when he hears about them. Then she doesn't have to do what she promised. She doesn't have to do what she agreed to do without thinking it through. The Lord will set her free. 
Numbers30:9 Suppose a widow makes a special promise. Or suppose she takes an oath and agrees to do something. Then she must keep her promise. She must do what she agreed to do. The same rules apply to a woman who has been divorced. 
Numbers30:10 Suppose a woman who is living with her husband makes a special promise. Or she takes an oath and agrees to do something. 
Numbers30:11 Suppose her husband hears about what she did. He doesn't say anything to her about it. And he doesn't try to stop her from keeping her promises. Then she must keep her promise. She must do what she agreed to do. 
Numbers30:12 But suppose her husband doesn't allow her to keep her promises when he hears about them. Then she doesn't have to do what she promised. She doesn't have to do what she agreed to do. Her husband has kept her from doing what she said she would do. The Lord will set her free. 
Numbers30:13 Her husband can let her keep any special promise she makes. Or he can refuse to let her keep it. Suppose she takes an oath and agrees not to eat anything. Then her husband can let her keep her promise. Or he can refuse to let her keep it. 
Numbers30:14 But suppose day after day her husband doesn't say anything to her about what she did. Then he lets her keep all of her promises. He lets her do everything she agreed to do. That's because he didn't say anything to her when he heard about what she had done. 
Numbers30:15 But suppose some time after he hears about her promises he doesn't let her keep them. Then she will be guilty. But he will be held accountable for it. 
Numbers30:16 Those are the rules the Lord gave Moses about a man and his wife. And those are the rules the Lord gave about a father and his young daughter who is still living in his house. 
Numbers31:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers31:2 Pay the people of Midian back for what they did to the Israelites. After that, you will join the members of your family who have already died.""" 
Numbers31:3 So Moses said to the people, ""Prepare some of your men for battle. They must go to war against Midian. They will carry out the Lord's plan to punish Midian." 
Numbers31:4 Send 1,000 men from each of the tribes of Israel into battle.""" 
Numbers31:5 So Moses prepared 12,000 men for battle. There were 1,000 from each tribe. They came from the families of Israel." 
Numbers31:6 Moses sent them into battle. He sent 1,000 from each tribe. The priest Phinehas went along with them. Phinehas was the son of Eleazar. Phinehas took some articles from the sacred tent with him. He also took the trumpets. The trumpet blasts would tell the people what to do and when to do it." 
Numbers31:7 They fought against Midian, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. They killed every man." 
Numbers31:8 Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur and Reba were among the men they killed. Those men were the five kings of Midian. The people of Israel also killed Balaam, the son of Beor, with a sword." 
Numbers31:9 They captured the women and children of Midian. They took for themselves all of the herds, flocks and goods." 
Numbers31:10 They burned up all of the towns where the people of Midian had settled. They also burned up all of their camps. 
Numbers31:11 They carried off everything they had taken. That included the people and the animals. 
Numbers31:12 They brought back to Israel's camp the prisoners and everything else they had taken. They took them to Moses and to the priest Eleazar. They brought them to the whole community. Israel was camped on the flatlands of Moab. They were by the Jordan River across from Jericho. 
Numbers31:13 Moses and the priest Eleazar went to meet them outside the camp. So did all of the leaders of the community. 
Numbers31:14 Moses was angry with the officers of the army who had returned from the battle. Some of them were the commanders of thousands of men. Others were the commanders of hundreds. 
Numbers31:15 Have you let all of the women remain alive? Moses asked them. 
Numbers31:16 The women followed Balaam's advice. They caused the people of Israel to turn away from the Lord. The people worshiped the god Baal that was worshiped at Peor. So a plague struck them. 
Numbers31:17 Kill all of the boys. And kill every woman who has made love to a man. 
Numbers31:18 But save for yourselves every woman who has never made love to a man. 
Numbers31:19 All of you who have killed anyone must stay outside the camp for seven days. And all of you who have touched anyone who was killed must do the same thing. On the third and seventh days you must make yourselves pure. You must also make your prisoners pure. 
Numbers31:20 Make all of your clothes pure and clean. Everything that is made out of leather, goat hair or wood must be made pure.""" 
Numbers31:21 Then the priest Eleazar spoke to the soldiers who had gone into battle. He said, ""Here is what the law the Lord gave Moses requires." 
Numbers31:22 All of your gold, silver, bronze, iron, tin and lead" 
Numbers31:23 must be put through fire. So must everything else that doesn't burn up. Then those things will be 'clean.' But they must also be made pure with the special water. In fact, everything that won't burn up must be put through that water." 
Numbers31:24 On the seventh day wash your clothes. And you will be 'clean.' Then you can come into the camp. 
Numbers31:25 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers31:26 Here is what you and the priest Eleazar and the family heads of the community must do. You must count all of the people and animals you took. 
Numbers31:27 Divide up some of what you took with the soldiers who fought in the battle. Divide up the rest with the others in the community. 
Numbers31:28 Set apart a gift for me. Take something from the soldiers who fought in the battle. Set apart one out of every 500 people, cattle, donkeys, sheep and goats." 
Numbers31:29 Take my gift from the soldiers' half. Give it to the priest Eleazar. It is my share. 
Numbers31:30 Also take something from the half that belongs to the people of Israel. Choose one out of every 50 people, cattle, donkeys, sheep, goats or other animals. Give them to the Levites. They are accountable for taking care of my holy tent.""" 
Numbers31:31 So Moses and the priest Eleazar did just as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Numbers31:32 What the soldiers took included 675,000 sheep." 
Numbers31:33 There were also 72,000 cattle" 
Numbers31:34 and 61,000 donkeys." 
Numbers31:35 And there were 32,000 women who had never made love to a man." 
Numbers31:36 Here is the half that belonged to those who had fought in the battle. There were 337,500 sheep." 
Numbers31:37 From among them, the Lord's gift was 675." 
Numbers31:38 There were 36,000 cattle. From among them, the Lord's gift was 72." 
Numbers31:39 There were 30,500 donkeys. From among them, the Lord's gift was 61." 
Numbers31:40 There were 16,000 women. From among them, the Lord's gift was 32." 
Numbers31:41 Moses gave the gift to the priest Eleazar. It was the Lord's share. Moses did just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers31:42 The other half belonged to the people of Israel. Moses set it apart from what belonged to the fighting men. 
Numbers31:43 The community's half was 337,500 sheep," 
Numbers31:44 36,000 cattle," 
Numbers31:45 30,500 donkeys" 
Numbers31:46 and 16,000 women." 
Numbers31:47 Moses chose one out of every 50 people and animals. He gave them to the Levites. They were accountable for taking care of the Lord's holy tent. Moses did just as the Lord had commanded him. 
Numbers31:48 Then the army officers went to Moses. Some of them were the commanders of thousands of men. Others were the commanders of hundreds. 
Numbers31:49 All of them said to Moses, ""We have counted the soldiers under our command. Not a single one is missing." 
Numbers31:50 So we've brought an offering to the Lord. We've brought the gold articles each of us took in the battle. We've also brought armbands, bracelets, rings, earrings and necklaces. We've brought them to pay for our sin in the sight of the Lord.""" 
Numbers31:51 Moses and the priest Eleazar accepted the beautiful gold articles from the army officers. 
Numbers31:52 The gold that was received from the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds weighed 420 pounds. Moses and Eleazar offered all of it as a gift to the Lord. 
Numbers31:53 Each soldier had taken things from the battle for himself. 
Numbers31:54 Moses and the priest Eleazar accepted the gold from all of the commanders. They brought it into the Tent of Meeting. It reminded the Lord of the people of Israel. 
Numbers32:1 The tribes of Reuben and Gad had very large herds and flocks. They looked at the lands of Jazer and Gilead. They saw that those lands were just right for livestock. 
Numbers32:2 So they came to Moses and the priest Eleazar. They also came to the leaders of the community. They said," 
Numbers32:3 We have seen the cities of Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah and Heshbon. We've seen Elealeh, Sebam, Nebo and Beon." 
Numbers32:4 All of them are in the land the Lord has brought under Israel's control. This land is just right for livestock. And we have livestock. 
Numbers32:5 We hope you are pleased with us,"" they continued. ""If you are, please give us this land. Then it will belong to us. But don't make us go across the Jordan River.""" 
Numbers32:6 Moses spoke to the people of Gad and Reuben. He said, ""Should the rest of us go to war while you stay here?" 
Numbers32:7 The Lord has given the land of Canaan to the people of Israel. So why would you want to keep them from going over into it? 
Numbers32:8 That's what your fathers did. I sent them from Kadesh Barnea to check out the land. 
Numbers32:9 They went up to the Valley of Eshcol and looked at the land. Then they talked the people of Israel out of entering the land the Lord had given them. 
Numbers32:10 The Lord's anger was stirred up that day. So he took an oath and made a promise. He said," 
Numbers32:11 Not one of the men who is 20 years old or more who came up out of Egypt will see the land. They have not followed me with their whole heart. I took an oath and promised to give the land to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Numbers32:12  'But not one of these men will see it except Caleb and Joshua. Caleb is the son of Jephunneh, the Kenizzite. And Joshua is the son of Nun. They will see the land. They followed me with their whole heart.'" 
Numbers32:12  'But not one of these men will see it except Caleb and Joshua. Caleb is the son of Jephunneh, the Kenizzite. And Joshua is the son of Nun. They will see the land. They followed me with their whole heart.'" 
Numbers32:13 The Lord's anger burned against Israel. He made them wander around in the desert for 40 years. They wandered until all of the people who had done evil in his sight had died. 
Numbers32:14 Now here you are, you bunch of sinners! You have taken the place of your fathers. And you are making the Lord even more angry with Israel." 
Numbers32:15 What if you turn away from following him? Then he'll leave all of these people in the desert again. And it will be your fault when they are destroyed. 
Numbers32:16 Then they came up to Moses. They said, ""We would like to build pens here for our livestock. We would also like to build cities for our women and children." 
Numbers32:17 But we're ready to prepare ourselves for battle. We're even ready to go ahead of the people of Israel. We'll go with them until we've brought them to their place. While we're gone, our women and children will live in cities that have high walls around them. That will keep them safe from the people who are living in this land." 
Numbers32:18 We won't return to our homes until all of the people of Israel have received their share of the land. 
Numbers32:19 We won't receive any share with them on the west side of the Jordan River. We've already received our share here on the east side. 
Numbers32:20 Then Moses said to them, ""Do what you have promised to do. Prepare yourselves to fight for the Lord." 
Numbers32:21 Prepare yourselves and go across the Jordan River. Fight for the Lord until he has driven out his enemies in front of him. 
Numbers32:22 When the land is under the Lord's control, you can come back here. Your duty to the Lord and Israel will be over. Then the Lord will give you this land as your own." 
Numbers32:23 But what if you fail to do your duty? Then you will be sinning against the Lord. And you can be sure that your sin will be discovered. It will be brought out into the open. 
Numbers32:24 So build up cities for your women and children. Make sheep pens for your flocks. But do what you have promised to do. 
Numbers32:25 The people of Gad and Reuben spoke to Moses. They said, ""We will do just as you command." 
Numbers32:26 Our children and wives will remain here in the cities of Gilead. So will our flocks and herds. 
Numbers32:27 But we will prepare ourselves for battle. We'll go across the Jordan River and fight for the Lord. We will do just as you have said. 
Numbers32:28 Then Moses gave orders about them to the priest Eleazar. He gave the same orders to Joshua, the son of Nun. He also spoke to the family heads of the tribes of Israel." 
Numbers32:28 Then Moses gave orders about them to the priest Eleazar. He gave the same orders to Joshua, the son of Nun. He also spoke to the family heads of the tribes of Israel." 
Numbers32:29 He said, ""The men of Gad and Reuben must prepare themselves for battle. They must go across the Jordan River with you. They must help you fight for the Lord. They must stay with you until the land has been brought under your control. If they do, give them the land of Gilead as their own." 
Numbers32:30 But what if they don't get ready for battle? What if they don't go across the Jordan with you? Then they must accept a share with you in Canaan. 
Numbers32:31 The people of Gad and Reuben gave their answer. They said, ""We will do what the Lord has said." 
Numbers32:32 We'll get ready for battle. We'll go across the Jordan into Canaan. We'll fight for the Lord there. But the property we receive will be on this side of the Jordan River. 
Numbers32:33 Then Moses gave their land to them. He gave it to the tribes of Gad and Reuben and half of the tribe of Manasseh. Manasseh was Joseph's son. One part of that land had belonged to the kingdom of Sihon, the king of the Amorites. The other part had belonged to the kingdom of Og, the king of Bashan. Moses gave that whole land to those two and a half tribes. It included its cities and the territory around them." 
Numbers32:34 The people of Gad built up the cities of Dibon, Ataroth and Aroer." 
Numbers32:35 They built up Atroth Shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah," 
Numbers32:36 Beth Nimrah and Beth Haran. They built a high wall around each of those cities. They also built sheep pens for their flocks. 
Numbers32:37 The people of Reuben built up Heshbon, Elealeh and Kiriathaim." 
Numbers32:38 They also built up Nebo, Baal Meon and Sibmah. They gave new names to the cities they had built up." 
Numbers32:39 The people of Makir, the son of Manasseh, went to the land of Gilead. They captured it. They drove out the Amorites who were living there." 
Numbers32:40 So Moses gave Gilead to the people of Makir, the son of Manasseh. And they settled there." 
Numbers32:41 Jair was a man in the family line of Manasseh. Jair captured Gilead's settlements. He called them Havvoth Jair. 
Numbers32:42 Nobah captured Kenath and the settlements that were around it. He named it after himself. 
Numbers33:1 Here are the places where the people of Israel stopped during their journey. When they came out of Egypt, they marched in companies like an army. Moses and Aaron led them." 
Numbers33:2 The Lord commanded Moses to record their journey. Here are the places where they stopped. 
Numbers33:3 The people of Israel started out from Rameses. It was the 15th day of the first month. It was the day after the Passover Feast. They marched out boldly in plain sight of all of the Egyptians. 
Numbers33:4 The Egyptians were burying all of their oldest sons. The Lord had struck them down. He had done it when he punished their gods. 
Numbers33:5 The people of Israel left Rameses and camped at Succoth. 
Numbers33:6 They left Succoth and camped at Etham. Etham was on the edge of the desert. 
Numbers33:7 They left Etham and turned back to Pi Hahiroth. It was east of Baal Zephon. They camped near Migdol. 
Numbers33:8 They left Pi Hahiroth. Then they passed through the Red Sea into the desert. They traveled for three days in the Desert of Etham. Then they camped at Marah. 
Numbers33:9 They left Marah and went to Elim. Twelve springs and 70 palm trees were there. So they camped at Elim. 
Numbers33:10 They left Elim and camped by the Red Sea. 
Numbers33:11 They left the Red Sea and camped in the Desert of Sin. 
Numbers33:12 They left the Desert of Sin and camped at Dophkah. 
Numbers33:13 They left Dophkah and camped at Alush. 
Numbers33:14 They left Alush and camped at Rephidim. But there was no water there for the people to drink. 
Numbers33:15 They left Rephidim and camped in the Desert of Sinai. 
Numbers33:16 They left the Desert of Sinai and camped at Kibroth Hattaavah. 
Numbers33:17 They left Kibroth Hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth. 
Numbers33:18 They left Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah. 
Numbers33:19 They left Rithmah and camped at Rimmon Perez. 
Numbers33:20 They left Rimmon Perez and camped at Libnah. 
Numbers33:21 They left Libnah and camped at Rissah. 
Numbers33:22 They left Rissah and camped at Kehelathah. 
Numbers33:23 They left Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher. 
Numbers33:24 They left Mount Shepher and camped at Haradah. 
Numbers33:25 They left Haradah and camped at Makheloth. 
Numbers33:26 They left Makheloth and camped at Tahath. 
Numbers33:27 They left Tahath and camped at Terah. 
Numbers33:28 They left Terah and camped at Mithcah. 
Numbers33:29 They left Mithcah and camped at Hashmonah. 
Numbers33:30 They left Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth. 
Numbers33:31 They left Moseroth and camped at Bene Jaakan. 
Numbers33:32 They left Bene Jaakan and camped at Hor Haggidgad. 
Numbers33:33 They left Hor Haggidgad and camped at Jotbathah. 
Numbers33:34 They left Jotbathah and camped at Abronah. 
Numbers33:35 They left Abronah and camped at Ezion Geber. 
Numbers33:36 They left Ezion Geber and camped at Kadesh. Kadesh was in the Desert of Zin. 
Numbers33:37 They left Kadesh and camped at Mount Hor. It was on the border of Edom. 
Numbers33:38 The priest Aaron went up Mount Hor when the Lord commanded him to. That's where he died. It happened on the first day of the fifth month. It was the 40th year after the people of Israel came out of Egypt. 
Numbers33:39 Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor. 
Numbers33:40 The Canaanite king of Arad lived in the Negev Desert in Canaan. He heard that the people of Israel were coming. 
Numbers33:41 They left Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah. 
Numbers33:42 They left Zalmonah and camped at Punon. 
Numbers33:43 They left Punon and camped at Oboth. 
Numbers33:44 They left Oboth and camped at Iye Abarim. It was on the border of Moab. 
Numbers33:45 They left Iyim and camped at Dibon Gad. 
Numbers33:46 They left Dibon Gad and camped at Almon Diblathaim. 
Numbers33:47 They left Almon Diblathaim and camped in the mountain range of Abarim near Nebo. 
Numbers33:48 They left the mountain range of Abarim and camped on the flatlands of Moab. They were by the Jordan River across from Jericho. 
Numbers33:49 They camped there along the Jordan River from Beth Jeshimoth to Abel Shittim. 
Numbers33:50 On the flatlands of Moab the Lord spoke to Moses. He spoke to him by the Jordan River across from Jericho. The Lord said," 
Numbers33:51 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'Go across the Jordan River into Canaan." 
Numbers33:52 Drive out all those who are living in the land. The statues of their gods are made out of stone and metal. Destroy all of those statues. And destroy all of the high places where they are worshiped. 
Numbers33:53  'Take the land as your own. Settle down in it. I have given it to you. 
Numbers33:54 Use lots when you give out the land. Do it based on the number of men who are in each tribe and family. Give a larger share to a larger group. And give a smaller group a smaller share. The share they receive by using lots will belong to them. Give out the shares based on the number of men in Israel's tribes. 
Numbers33:55  'But suppose you do not drive out the people who are living in the land. Then those you allow to remain there will become like needles in your eyes. They will become like thorns in your sides. They will give you trouble in the land where you will live. 
Numbers33:56 Then I will do to you what I plan to do to them.' 
Numbers34:1 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers34:2 Give the people of Israel a command. Tell them, 'You are going to enter Canaan. The land will be given to you as your own. Here are the borders it will have." 
Numbers34:3  'Your southern border will include some of the Desert of Zin. It will be along the border of Edom. On the east, your southern border will start from the end of the Dead Sea." 
Numbers34:4 It will cross south of Scorpion Pass. It will continue on to Zin. From there it will go south of Kadesh Barnea. Then it will go to Hazar Addar and over to Azmon. 
Numbers34:5 There it will turn and join the Wadi of Egypt. It will come to an end at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Numbers34:6  'Your western border will be the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. That will be your border on the west. 
Numbers34:7  'For your northern border, run a line from the Mediterranean Sea to Mount Hor." 
Numbers34:8 Continue it from Mount Hor to Lebo Hamath. Then the border will go to Zedad. 
Numbers34:9 It will continue to Ziphron. It will come to an end at Hazar Enan. That will be your border on the north. 
Numbers34:10  'For your eastern border, run a line from Hazar Enan to Shepham." 
Numbers34:11 The border will go down from Shepham to Riblah. Riblah is on the east side of Ain. From there the border will continue along the slopes east of the Sea of Galilee. 
Numbers34:12 Then the border will go down along the Jordan River. It will come to an end at the Dead Sea.  'That will be your land. And those will be its borders on every side.' 
Numbers34:13 Moses gave the people of Israel a command. He said, ""Use lots when you give out the land. Each tribe will have its own share. The Lord has ordered it to be given to the nine and a half tribes." 
Numbers34:14 The families of the tribes of Reuben and Gad have already received their shares. The families of half of the tribe of Manasseh have also received their share. 
Numbers34:15 Those two and a half tribes have received their shares east of the Jordan River. It flows near Jericho. Their land is toward the sunrise. 
Numbers34:16 The Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers34:17 Here are the names of the men who will give out the shares of the land to your people. They are the priest Eleazar and Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Numbers34:17 Here are the names of the men who will give out the shares of the land to your people. They are the priest Eleazar and Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Numbers34:18 Also appoint one leader from each tribe to help give out the land. 
Numbers34:19 Here are their names. Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, is from the tribe of Judah." 
Numbers34:20 Shemuel, the son of Ammihud, is from the tribe of Simeon." 
Numbers34:21 Elidad, the son of Kislon, is from the tribe of Benjamin." 
Numbers34:22 Bukki, the son of Jogli, is the leader from the tribe of Dan." 
Numbers34:23 Hanniel, the son of Ephod, is the leader from the tribe of Manasseh. Manasseh was the son of Joseph." 
Numbers34:24 Kemuel, the son of Shiphtan, is the leader from the tribe of Ephraim. Ephraim was the son of Joseph." 
Numbers34:25 Elizaphan, the son of Parnach, is the leader from the tribe of Zebulun." 
Numbers34:26 Paltiel, the son of Azzan, is the leader from the tribe of Issachar." 
Numbers34:27 Ahihud, the son of Shelomi, is the leader from the tribe of Asher." 
Numbers34:28 Pedahel, the son of Ammihud, is the leader from the tribe of Naphtali.""" 
Numbers34:29 Those are the men the Lord commanded to give out the shares of the land. They were commanded to give them to Israel in the land of Canaan. 
Numbers35:1 On the flatlands of Moab, the Lord spoke to Moses. It was by the Jordan River across from Jericho. The Lord said," 
Numbers35:2 Command the people of Israel to give the Levites towns to live in. The towns must come from the shares of land the people will have as their own. Also give the Levites the grasslands that are around the towns. 
Numbers35:3 Then the Levites will have towns to live in. They will also have grasslands that are for their cattle, flocks and all of their other livestock." 
Numbers35:4 The grasslands that are around each town you give them will go out to 1,500 feet from the town wall." 
Numbers35:5 Outside each town, the east side will measure 3,000 feet. The south side will measure 3,000 feet. The west side will measure 3,000 feet. And the north side will measure 3,000 feet. The town must be in the center. The Levites will have the area around it as grasslands." 
Numbers35:6 Six of the towns you give the Levites will be cities to go to for safety. A person who has killed someone can run to one of them. Also give the Levites 42 other towns. 
Numbers35:7 You must give the Levites a total of 48 towns. Also give them the grasslands that are around the towns. 
Numbers35:8 The towns you give the Levites must come from the land the people of Israel have as their own. So the number you give from each tribe will depend on the size of that tribe's share. Take many towns from a tribe that has many. But take only a few towns from a tribe that has only a few. 
Numbers35:9 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said," 
Numbers35:10 Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'You will soon go across the Jordan River. You will enter Canaan." 
Numbers35:11 When you do, choose the cities to go to for safety. People who have killed someone by accident can run to one of those cities." 
Numbers35:12 They will be places of safety for them. People will be safe there from those who want to kill them. Then those who are charged with murder will not die before their case has been brought to the community court. 
Numbers35:13  'Six towns will be the cities you can go to for safety. 
Numbers35:14 Three will be east of the Jordan River. The other three will be in Canaan. 
Numbers35:15  'Those six towns will be places where the people of Israel can go for safety. Outsiders and any other people living in Israel can also go to them for safety. So anyone who has killed another person by accident can run there. 
Numbers35:16  'Suppose a person uses an iron object to hit and kill someone. Then he is a murderer. He must be put to death. 
Numbers35:17 Or suppose a person is holding a stone that could kill. And he uses it to hit and kill someone. Then he is a murderer. He must be put to death. 
Numbers35:18 Or suppose a person is holding a wooden object that could kill. And he uses it to hit and kill someone. Then he is a murderer. He must be put to death. 
Numbers35:19  'The dead person's nearest male relative should kill the murderer. When he meets him, he should kill him." 
Numbers35:20  'What if a person makes evil plans against someone else? And what if that person pushes him so that he dies? Or what if that person throws something at him so that he dies? 
Numbers35:21 Or what if that person hits the other person with a fist so that the other dies? Then the person who does any of those things must be put to death. He is a murderer.  'The dead person's nearest male relative should kill the murderer. When he meets him, he should kill him." 
Numbers35:22  'But what if a person suddenly pushes someone else without being angry? Or what if that person throws something at him without meaning to? 
Numbers35:23 Or what if that person does not see him and drops a stone on him that kills him? He was not the dead person's enemy. He did not mean to harm him. 
Numbers35:24  'Then the court must decide between the person who did the act and the nearest male relative of the one who was killed. Here are the rules the court must follow. 
Numbers35:25  'The court must provide a safe place for the person who is charged with murder. It must keep him safe from those who want to kill him. The court must send him back to the city he ran to for safety. He must stay there until the high priest dies. The priest is the one who has been anointed with the holy oil. 
Numbers35:26  'But suppose the one who has been charged with murder goes outside that city. 
Numbers35:27 And suppose the dead person's nearest male relative finds that one outside the city. Then the relative can kill the one who has been charged. The relative will not be guilty of murder. 
Numbers35:28  'The one who has been charged must stay in that city until the high priest dies. Only then can the one who has been charged return home. 
Numbers35:29  'That is what the law requires of you for all time to come. It will apply to you no matter where you live. 
Numbers35:30  'Suppose a person kills someone. That person must be put to death as a murderer. But do it only when there are witnesses who can tell what happened. Do not put anyone to death if only one witness tells what happened. 
Numbers35:31  'Do not accept payment for a murderer's life. He should die. He must certainly be put to death. 
Numbers35:32  'Do not accept payment for anyone who has run to a city for safety. Do not let him buy his freedom to return home. He must not go back and live on his own land before the high priest dies. 
Numbers35:33  'Do not pollute the land where you are. Murder pollutes the land. Only one thing can pay to remove the pollution in the land where murder has been committed. The blood of the one who spilled another's blood must be spilled. 
Numbers35:34 So do not make the land where you live unclean. I live there too. I live among the people of Israel. I am the Lord.' 
Numbers36:1 The heads of the families of Gilead came to Moses. Gilead was the son of Makir. The family heads were from the tribe of Manasseh. So they were in the family line of Joseph. They spoke to Moses in front of the leaders of the families of Israel. 
Numbers36:2 They said, ""The Lord commanded you to give shares of the land to the people of Israel. He told you to use lots when you do it. At that time the Lord ordered you to give our brother Zelophehad's share to his daughters." 
Numbers36:3 Suppose they get married to men who are from other tribes in Israel. Then their share will be taken away from our family's land. It will be added to the land of the tribe they marry into. So a part of the share that was given to us will be taken away. 
Numbers36:4 The Year of Jubilee for the people of Israel will come. Then their share will be added to the land of the tribe they marry into. Their land will be taken away from the share that was given to our tribe. 
Numbers36:5 Then the Lord gave a command to Moses. He told Moses to give an order to the people of Israel. Moses said, ""What the tribe in the family line of Joseph is saying is right." 
Numbers36:6 Here is what the Lord commands for Zelophehad's daughters. They can get married to anyone they want to. But they have to get married to someone in their own family's tribe. 
Numbers36:7 Property in Israel must not pass from one tribe to another. Everyone in Israel must keep his family's share of his tribe's land. 
Numbers36:8 Suppose a daughter in any tribe of Israel receives land from her parents. Then she must get married to someone in her father's family and tribe. In that way, every family's share will remain in its family line in Israel." 
Numbers36:9 Property can't pass from one tribe to another. Each tribe of Israel must keep the land it receives. 
Numbers36:10 So Zelophehad's daughters did just as the Lord commanded Moses. 
Numbers36:11 The names of the daughters were Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah and Noah. All of them got married to their cousins on their father's side." 
Numbers36:12 They married men who were in the family line of Manasseh, the son of Joseph. So the land they received remained in their father's family and tribe." 
Numbers36:13 Those are the commands and rules the Lord gave through Moses. He gave them to the people of Israel on the flatlands of Moab. They were by the Jordan River across from Jericho. 
Deuteronomy1:1 These are the words Moses spoke to all of the people of Israel. At that time, they were in the desert east of the Jordan River. It's in the Arabah Valley across from Suph. They were between Paran and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth and Dizahab." 
Deuteronomy1:2 It takes 11 days to go from Mount Horeb to Kadesh Barnea if you travel on the Mount Seir road. 
Deuteronomy1:3 It was now the 40th year since the people of Israel had left Egypt. On the first day of the 11th month, Moses spoke to them. He told them everything the Lord had commanded him to tell them." 
Deuteronomy1:4 They had already won the battle over Sihon. Sihon was the king of the Amorites. He had ruled in Heshbon. Israel had also won the battle over Og at Edrei. Og was the king of Bashan. He had ruled in Ashtaroth. 
Deuteronomy1:5 The people were east of the Jordan River in the territory of Moab. There Moses began to explain the law. Here is what he said. 
Deuteronomy1:6 The Lord our God spoke to us at Mount Horeb. He said, ""You have stayed long enough at this mountain." 
Deuteronomy1:7 Take your tents down. Go into the hill country of the Amorites. Go to all of the people who are their neighbors. Go to the people who live in the Arabah Valley. Travel to the mountains and the western hills. Go to the people in the Negev Desert and along the coast. Travel to the land of Canaan and to Lebanon. Go as far as the great Euphrates River. 
Deuteronomy1:8 I have given you all of that land. Go in and take it as your own. I took an oath. I promised I would give the land to your fathers. I promised it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I also said I would give it to their children after them.""" 
Deuteronomy1:9 At that time I spoke to you. I said, ""You are too heavy a load for me to carry alone." 
Deuteronomy1:10 The Lord your God has increased your numbers. Today you are as many as the stars in the sky. 
Deuteronomy1:11 The Lord is the God of your people. May he increase your numbers a thousand times. May he bless you, just as he promised he would." 
Deuteronomy1:12 But I can't handle your problems and troubles all by myself. I can't settle your arguments. 
Deuteronomy1:13 So choose some wise men from each of your tribes. They must understand how to give good advice. The people must have respect for them. I will appoint those men to have authority over you. 
Deuteronomy1:14 You answered me, ""Your suggestion is good.""" 
Deuteronomy1:15 So I took the leading men of your tribes who were wise and respected. I appointed them to have authority over you. I made them commanders of thousands, hundreds, fifties and tens. I appointed them to be officials over the tribes." 
Deuteronomy1:16 Here is what I commanded your judges at that time. I said, ""Listen to your people's cases when they argue with one another. Judge them fairly. It doesn't matter whether the case is between fellow Israelites or between an Israelite and an outsider." 
Deuteronomy1:17 When you judge them, treat everyone the same. Listen to those who are important and those who are not. Don't be afraid of any man. God is the highest judge. Bring me any case that is too hard for you. I'll listen to it.""" 
Deuteronomy1:18 At that time I told you everything you should do. 
Deuteronomy1:19 The Lord our God commanded us to start out from Mount Horeb. So we did. We went toward the hill country of the Amorites. We traveled all through the huge and terrible desert you saw. Finally, we reached Kadesh Barnea." 
Deuteronomy1:20 Then I said to you, ""You have reached the hill country of the Amorites. The Lord our God is giving it to us." 
Deuteronomy1:21 The Lord your God has given you the land. Go up and take it. Do what the Lord says. He's the God of your people. Don't be afraid. Don't lose hope. 
Deuteronomy1:22 Then all of you came to me. You said, ""Let's send some men ahead of us. They can check out the land for us and bring back a report. They can suggest to us which way to go. They can tell us about the towns we'll come to.""" 
Deuteronomy1:23 That seemed like a good idea to me. So I chose 12 of you. I picked one man from each tribe. 
Deuteronomy1:24 They left and went up into the hill country. There they came to the Valley of Eshcol. They checked it out. 
Deuteronomy1:25 They got some of the fruit of that land. They brought it down to us and gave us their report. They said, ""The Lord our God is giving us a good land.""" 
Deuteronomy1:26 But you wouldn't go up. You refused to obey the command of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy1:27 You spoke against him in your tents. You said, ""The Lord hates us. That's why he brought us out of Egypt to hand us over to the Amorites. He wanted to destroy us." 
Deuteronomy1:28 Where can we go? The men who checked out the land have made us lose hope. They say, 'The people are stronger and taller than we are. The cities are large. They have walls that reach up to the sky. We even saw the Anakites there.' """ 
Deuteronomy1:29 Then I said to you, ""Don't be terrified. Don't be afraid of them." 
Deuteronomy1:30 The Lord your God will go ahead of you. He will fight for you. With your own eyes you saw how he fought for you in Egypt. 
Deuteronomy1:31 You also saw how the Lord your God brought you through the desert. He carried you everywhere you went, just as a father carries his son. And now you have arrived here.""" 
Deuteronomy1:32 In spite of that, you didn't trust in the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy1:33 He went ahead of you on your journey. He was in the fire at night and in the cloud during the day. He found places for you to camp. He showed you the way you should go. 
Deuteronomy1:34 The Lord heard what you said. So he became angry. He took an oath and made a promise. He said," 
Deuteronomy1:35 I promised to give this good land to your people long ago. But not one of you evil men who are alive today will see it. 
Deuteronomy1:36 Only Caleb will see the land. He is the son of Jephunneh. I will give him and his children after him the land he walked on. He followed me with his whole heart. 
Deuteronomy1:37 Because of you, the Lord became angry with me also. He said, ""You will not enter the land either." 
Deuteronomy1:38 But Joshua, the son of Nun, is your helper. Joshua will enter the land. Help him to be brave. Give him hope. He will lead Israel to take the land as their own." 
Deuteronomy1:38 But Joshua, the son of Nun, is your helper. Joshua will enter the land. Help him to be brave. Give him hope. He will lead Israel to take the land as their own." 
Deuteronomy1:39 You said your little ones would be taken prisoner. But they will enter the land. They do not know right from wrong yet. But I will give them the land. They will take it as their own. 
Deuteronomy1:40 As for you, turn around. Start out toward the desert. Go along the road that leads to the Red Sea.""" 
Deuteronomy1:41 Then you replied, ""We have sinned against the Lord. We will go up and fight. We'll do just as the Lord our God has commanded us."" So all of you got your swords and put them on. You thought it would be easy to go up into the hill country." 
Deuteronomy1:42 But the Lord spoke to me. He said, ""Tell them, 'Do not go up and fight. I will not be with you. Your enemies will win the battle over you.' """ 
Deuteronomy1:43 So I told you what the Lord said. But you wouldn't listen. You refused to obey his command. You were so filled with pride that you marched up into the hill country. 
Deuteronomy1:44 The Amorites who lived in those hills came out and attacked you. Like large numbers of bees they chased you. They beat you down from Seir all the way to Hormah. 
Deuteronomy1:45 You came back and sobbed in front of the Lord. But he didn't pay any attention to your sobs. He wouldn't listen to you. 
Deuteronomy1:46 So you stayed in Kadesh for many years. You spent a long time in that area. 
Deuteronomy2:1 We turned back and started out toward the desert. We went along the road that leads to the Red Sea. That's how the Lord had directed me. For a long time we made our way around the hill country of Seir. 
Deuteronomy2:2 Then the Lord spoke to me. He said," 
Deuteronomy2:3 You have made your way around this hill country long enough. So now turn north. 
Deuteronomy2:4 Here are the orders I want you to give the people. Tell them, 'You are about to pass through the territory of your relatives. They are from the family line of Esau. They live in Seir. They will be afraid of you. But be very careful." 
Deuteronomy2:5 Do not make them angry. If you do, they will go to war against you. I will not give you any of their land. You will not have even enough to put your foot on. I have given Esau the hill country of Seir as his own." 
Deuteronomy2:6 Pay them with silver for the food you eat and the water you drink.' 
Deuteronomy2:7 The Lord your God has blessed you in everything your hands have done. He watched over you when you traveled through that huge desert. For these 40 years the Lord your God has been with you. So you have had everything you need. 
Deuteronomy2:8 We went on past our relatives. They are from the family line of Esau. They live in Seir. We turned away from the Arabah Valley road. It comes up from Elath and Ezion Geber. We traveled along the desert road of Moab. 
Deuteronomy2:9 Then the Lord said to me, ""Do not attack the Moabites. Do not even make them angry. If you do, they will go to war against you. I will not give you any part of their land. I have given Moab to the people in the family line of Lot. I have given it to them as their own.""" 
Deuteronomy2:10 The Emites used to live there. They were strong people. There were large numbers of them. They were as tall as the Anakites. 
Deuteronomy2:11 Like the Anakites, they too were thought of as Rephaites. But the Moabites called them Emites." 
Deuteronomy2:12 The Horites used to live in Seir. But the people of Esau drove them out. They destroyed the Horites to make room for themselves. Then they settled in their territory. They did just as Israel has done in the land the Lord gave them as their own. 
Deuteronomy2:13 The Lord said, ""Now get up. Go across the Zered Valley."" So we went across it." 
Deuteronomy2:14 Between the time we left Kadesh Barnea and the time we went across the Zered Valley, 38 years passed. By then, all of the fighting men who had been in our camp from the beginning had died. The Lord had warned them with an oath that it would happen." 
Deuteronomy2:15 He used his power against them until he had gotten rid of all of them. Not one was left in the camp. 
Deuteronomy2:16 Finally, the last of the fighting men among the people died." 
Deuteronomy2:17 Then the Lord spoke to me. He said," 
Deuteronomy2:18 Today you must pass near the border of Moab. Moab is also called Ar. 
Deuteronomy2:19 When you come to the Ammonites, do not attack them. Do not make them angry. If you do, they will go to war against you. I will not give you any of their land as your own. I have given it to the people in the family line of Lot. I have given it to them as their own.""" 
Deuteronomy2:20 That land was also thought of as a land of the Rephaites. They used to live there. But the Ammonites called them Zamzummites. 
Deuteronomy2:21 The Rephaites were strong people. There were large numbers of them. They were as tall as the Anakites. The Lord destroyed the Rephaites to make room for the Ammonites. So the Ammonites drove them out. Then they settled in the territory of the Rephaites. 
Deuteronomy2:22 The Lord had done the same thing for the people of Esau. They lived in Seir. He destroyed the Horites to make room for them. They drove the Horites out. So the people of Esau have lived in Seir in the territory of the Horites to this very day. 
Deuteronomy2:23 The Avvites lived in villages as far away as Gaza. But people came from Crete. They destroyed the Avvites. Then they settled in the territory of the Avvites. 
Deuteronomy2:24 The Lord said, ""Start out and go across the valley of the Arnon River. I have handed Sihon over to you. He is the Amorite king of Heshbon. I have also given you his country. Begin to take it as your own. Go to war against him." 
Deuteronomy2:25 This very day I will bring fear and terror on all of the nations because of you. They will hear about you. They will tremble with fear. Pain and suffering will take hold of them because of you. 
Deuteronomy2:26 I sent messengers from the Desert of Kedemoth. I told them to go to Sihon, the king of Heshbon. They offered him peace. They said," 
Deuteronomy2:27 Let us pass through your country. We'll stay on the main road. We won't turn off it to one side or the other. 
Deuteronomy2:28 We'll pay you the right amount of silver for food to eat and water to drink. Just let us walk through your country. 
Deuteronomy2:29 The people of Esau, who live in Seir, allowed us to do that. The people of Moab, who live in Ar, also allowed us to do it. So let us walk through until we go across the Jordan River. Then we'll be able to go into the land the Lord our God is giving us.""" 
Deuteronomy2:30 But Sihon, the king of Heshbon, refused to let us walk through. The Lord your God had made his heart and spirit stubborn. The Lord wanted to hand him over to you. And that's exactly what he has done." 
Deuteronomy2:31 The Lord said to me, ""I have begun to hand Sihon and his country over to you. So begin the battle to take his land as your own.""" 
Deuteronomy2:32 Sihon and his whole army came out to fight against us at Jahaz. 
Deuteronomy2:33 But the Lord our God handed him over to us. We struck him down together with his sons and his whole army. 
Deuteronomy2:34 At that time we took all of his towns. We completely destroyed them. We killed all of the men, women and children. We didn't leave any of them alive." 
Deuteronomy2:35 But we took for ourselves the livestock and everything else from the towns we had captured. 
Deuteronomy2:36 Not a single town was too strong for us. That includes all of the towns from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon River valley all the way to Gilead. It also includes the town in the valley. The Lord our God gave us all of them. 
Deuteronomy2:37 And you obeyed the Lord's command. You didn't go near any part of the land of the Ammonites. That includes the land along the Jabbok River. It also includes the land around the towns that are in the hills. 
Deuteronomy3:1 Next, we turned and went up along the road toward Bashan. Og, the king of Bashan, marched out with his whole army. They fought against us at Edrei." 
Deuteronomy3:2 The Lord said to me, ""Do not be afraid of Og. I have handed him over to you. I have also handed over his whole army and his land. Do to him what you did to Sihon. Sihon was the Amorite king who ruled in Heshbon.""" 
Deuteronomy3:3 So the Lord our God also handed Og, the king of Bashan, and his whole army over to us. We struck them down. We didn't leave any of them alive." 
Deuteronomy3:4 At that time we took all of his cities. There were 60 of them. We took the whole area of Argob. That was Og's kingdom in Bashan. 
Deuteronomy3:5 All of those cities had high walls around them. The city gates were made secure with heavy metal bars. There were also large numbers of villages that didn't have walls. 
Deuteronomy3:6 We completely destroyed them. We did to them just as we had done to Sihon, the king of Heshbon. We destroyed all of their cities. We destroyed the men, women and children." 
Deuteronomy3:7 But we kept for ourselves the livestock and everything else we took from their cities. 
Deuteronomy3:8 So at that time we took the territory east of the Jordan River. We captured it from those two Amorite kings. The territory goes all the way from the Arnon River valley to Mount Hermon. 
Deuteronomy3:9 Hermon is called Sirion by the people of Sidon. The Amorites call it Senir. 
Deuteronomy3:10 We captured all of the towns on the high flatlands. We took the whole land of Gilead. And we captured the whole land of Bashan as far away as Salecah and Edrei. Those were towns that belonged to Og's kingdom in Bashan. 
Deuteronomy3:11 Og, the king of Bashan, was the only Rephaite left. His bed was made out of iron. It was more than 13 feet long and six feet wide. It is still in the Ammonite city of Rabbah." 
Deuteronomy3:12 I divided up the land we took over at that time. I gave the tribes of Reuben and Gad the territory north of Aroer by the Arnon River valley. It includes half of the hill country of Gilead together with its towns. 
Deuteronomy3:13 I gave the rest of Gilead to half of the tribe of Manasseh. I also gave them the whole land of Bashan, the kingdom of Og. The whole area of Argob in Bashan used to be known as a land of the Rephaites." 
Deuteronomy3:14 Jair took the whole area of Argob. He was from the family line of Manasseh. Argob goes all the way to the border of the people of Geshur and Maacah. It was named after Jair. So Bashan is called Havvoth Jair to this very day. 
Deuteronomy3:15 I gave Gilead to Makir. 
Deuteronomy3:16 But I gave to the tribes of Reuben and Gad the territory that reaches from Gilead down to the Arnon River valley. It reaches all the way to the Jabbok River. The Jabbok is the northern border of Ammon. The middle of the Arnon River valley is its southern border. 
Deuteronomy3:17 The western border of Reuben and Gad is the Jordan River in the Arabah Valley. It reaches from the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea. It runs below the slopes of Pisgah. 
Deuteronomy3:18 Here is the command I gave at that time to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. I said, ""The Lord your God has given you this land as your very own. But all of your strong men must be prepared for battle. They must cross over ahead of the rest of your fellow Israelites." 
Deuteronomy3:19 But your wives and children can stay in the towns I've given you. You can keep your livestock there too. I know you have a lot of livestock. 
Deuteronomy3:20 Let your families and livestock stay in those towns until the Lord gives peace and rest to the other tribes, just as he has given you peace and rest. And let them stay until the other tribes have taken over the land the Lord your God is giving them. That land is across the Jordan River. After that, each of you may go back to the land I've given you as your very own.""" 
Deuteronomy3:21 At that time I gave Joshua a command. I said, ""Your own eyes have seen everything the Lord your God has done to Sihon and Og. He will do the same thing to all of the kingdoms in the land where you are going." 
Deuteronomy3:21 At that time I gave Joshua a command. I said, ""Your own eyes have seen everything the Lord your God has done to Sihon and Og. He will do the same thing to all of the kingdoms in the land where you are going." 
Deuteronomy3:22 Don't be afraid of them. The Lord your God himself will fight for you. 
Deuteronomy3:23 At that time I made my appeal to the Lord. I said," 
Deuteronomy3:24 Lord and King, you have begun to show me how great you are. You have shown me how strong your hand is. You do great works and mighty acts. There isn't any god in heaven or on earth that can do what you do." 
Deuteronomy3:25 Let me go across the Jordan River. Let me see the good land that is beyond it. I want to see that fine hill country and Lebanon. 
Deuteronomy3:26 But the Lord was angry with me because of what you did. He wouldn't listen to me. That is enough! the Lord said. Do not speak to me anymore about this matter. 
Deuteronomy3:27 Go up to the highest slopes of Pisgah. Look west and north and south and east. Look at the land with your own eyes. But you are not going to go across that Jordan River. 
Deuteronomy3:28 So appoint Joshua as the new leader. Help him to be brave. Give him hope and strength. He will take these people across the Jordan. You will see the land. But he will lead them into it to take it as their own. 
Deuteronomy3:28 So appoint Joshua as the new leader. Help him to be brave. Give him hope and strength. He will take these people across the Jordan. You will see the land. But he will lead them into it to take it as their own. 
Deuteronomy3:29 So we stayed in the valley near Beth Peor. 
Deuteronomy4:1 Israel, listen to the rules and laws I'm going to teach you. Follow them. Then you will live. You will go in and take over the land. The Lord was the God of your people long ago. He's giving you the land." 
Deuteronomy4:2 Don't add to what I'm commanding you. Don't subtract from it either. Instead, obey the commands of the Lord your God that I'm giving you." 
Deuteronomy4:3 Your own eyes saw what the Lord your God did at Baal Peor. He destroyed every one of your people who followed the Baal that was worshiped at Peor. 
Deuteronomy4:4 But all of you who remained true to the Lord your God are still alive today. 
Deuteronomy4:5 I have taught you rules and laws, just as the Lord my God commanded me. Follow them in the land you are entering to take as your very own." 
Deuteronomy4:6 Be careful to keep them. That will show the nations how wise and understanding you are. They will hear about all of those rules. They'll say, ""That great nation certainly has wise and understanding people.""" 
Deuteronomy4:7 The Lord our God is near us every time we pray to him. What other nation is great enough to have its gods that close to them? 
Deuteronomy4:8 I'm giving you the laws of the Lord today. What other nation is great enough to have rules and laws that are as fair as these? 
Deuteronomy4:9 Don't be careless. Instead, be very careful. Don't forget the things your eyes have seen. As long as you live, don't let them slip from your mind. Teach them to your children and their children after them." 
Deuteronomy4:10 Remember the day you stood at Mount Horeb. The Lord your God was there. He said to me, ""Bring the people to me to hear my words. I want them to learn to have respect for me as long as they live in the land. I want them to teach my words to their children.""" 
Deuteronomy4:11 You came near and stood at the foot of the mountain. It blazed with fire that reached as high as the very heavens. There were black clouds and deep darkness. 
Deuteronomy4:12 Then the Lord spoke to you out of the fire. You heard the sound of his words. But you didn't see any shape or form. You only heard a voice. 
Deuteronomy4:13 He announced his covenant to you. That covenant is the Ten Commandments. He commanded you to follow them. Then he wrote them down on two stone tablets. 
Deuteronomy4:14 At that time the Lord directed me to teach you his rules and laws. You must follow them in the land you are crossing the Jordan River to take as your own. 
Deuteronomy4:15 The Lord spoke to you at Mount Horeb out of the fire. But you didn't see any shape or form that day. So be very careful. 
Deuteronomy4:16 Make sure you don't commit a horrible sin. Don't make for yourselves a statue of a god. Don't make a god that looks like a man or woman or anything else. 
Deuteronomy4:17 Don't make one that looks like any animal on earth or any bird that flies in the sky. 
Deuteronomy4:18 Don't make a statue that looks like any creature that moves along the ground or any fish that swims in the water. 
Deuteronomy4:19 When you look up at the heavens, you will see the sun and moon. And you will see huge numbers of stars. Don't let anyone tempt you to bow down to the sun, moon or stars. Don't worship things the Lord your God has provided for all of the nations on earth." 
Deuteronomy4:20 Egypt was like a furnace that melts iron down and makes it pure. But the Lord took you and brought you out of Egypt. He wanted you to be his very own people. And that's exactly what you are. 
Deuteronomy4:21 The Lord was angry with me because of what you did. He took an oath that he would never let me go across the Jordan River. He promised that I would never enter that good land. It's the land the Lord your God is giving you as your own. 
Deuteronomy4:22 I'll die here in this land. I won't go across the Jordan. But you are about to cross over it. And you are about to take that good land as your own. 
Deuteronomy4:23 Be careful. Don't forget the covenant the Lord your God made with you. Don't make for yourselves a statue of any god at all. He has told you not to. So don't do it. 
Deuteronomy4:24 The Lord your God is like a fire that burns everything up. He's a jealous God. 
Deuteronomy4:25 You will have children and grandchildren. And you will live in the land a long time. But don't commit a horrible sin. Don't make a statue of a god. If you do, that will be an evil thing in the sight of the Lord your God. You will make him angry." 
Deuteronomy4:26 I'm calling out to heaven and earth to be witnesses against you this very day. If you do those things, you will quickly die in the land you are going across the Jordan River to take over. You won't live there very long. You will certainly be destroyed." 
Deuteronomy4:27 The Lord will drive you out of your land. He will scatter you among the nations. Only a few of you will remain alive there. 
Deuteronomy4:28 There you will worship gods that men have made out of wood and stone. Those gods can't see, hear, eat or smell." 
Deuteronomy4:29 Perhaps while you are there, you will look to the Lord your God. You will find him if you look for him with all your heart and with all your soul." 
Deuteronomy4:30 All of the things I've told you about might happen to you. And you will be in trouble. But later you will return to the Lord your God. You will obey him. 
Deuteronomy4:31 The Lord your God is tender and loving. He won't leave you or destroy you. He won't forget the covenant he made with your people long ago. He took an oath when he made it. 
Deuteronomy4:32 Ask now about the days of long ago. Learn what happened long before your time. Ask about what has happened since the time God created man on the earth. Ask from one end of the world to the other. Has anything as great as this ever happened? Has anything like it ever been heard of? 
Deuteronomy4:33 You heard the voice of God speaking out of fire. And you lived! Has that happened to any other people? 
Deuteronomy4:34 Has any god ever tried to take one nation out of another to be his own? Has any god done it by putting his people to the test? Has any god done it with miraculous signs and wonders or with a war? Has any god reached out his mighty hand and powerful arm? Or has any god shown his people his great and wonderful acts? The Lord your God did all of those things for you in Egypt. With your very own eyes you saw him do them. 
Deuteronomy4:35 The Lord showed you those things so that you might know he is God. There is no other God except him. 
Deuteronomy4:36 From heaven he made you hear his voice. He wanted to teach you. On earth he showed you his great fire. You heard his words coming out of the fire. 
Deuteronomy4:37 He loved your people long ago. He chose their children after them. So he brought you out of Egypt. He used his great strength to do it. 
Deuteronomy4:38 He drove out nations to make room for you. They were greater and stronger than you are. He will bring you into their land. He wants to give it to you as your very own. The whole land is as good as yours right now. 
Deuteronomy4:39 The Lord is God in heaven above and on the earth below. Today you must agree with that and take it to heart. There is no other God. 
Deuteronomy4:40 I'm giving you his rules and commands today. Obey them. Then things will go well with you and your children after you. You will live a long time in the land. The Lord your God is giving you the land for all time to come. 
Deuteronomy4:41 I set apart three cities east of the Jordan River. 
Deuteronomy4:42 Anyone who killed a person he didn't hate and without meaning to do it could run to one of those cities. He could go there and stay alive. 
Deuteronomy4:43 Here are the names of the cities. Bezer was for the people of Reuben. It was in the high flatlands in the desert. Ramoth was for the people of Gad. It was in Gilead. Golan was for the people of Manasseh. It was in Bashan. 
Deuteronomy4:44 Here is the law I gave the people of Israel. 
Deuteronomy4:45 Here are its terms, rules and laws. I gave them to the people when they came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy4:46 They were now east of the Jordan River in the valley near Beth Peor. They were in the land of Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He ruled in Heshbon. But the people of Israel and I won the battle over him after we came out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy4:47 We captured his land and made it our own. We also took the land of Og, the king of Bashan. Sihon and Og were the two Amorite kings east of the Jordan River." 
Deuteronomy4:48 Their land reached from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon River valley to Mount Hermon. 
Deuteronomy4:49 It included the whole Arabah Valley east of the Jordan. It included land all the way to the Dead Sea below the slopes of Pisgah. 
Deuteronomy5:1 I sent for all of the people of Israel. Here is what I said to them. Israel, listen to me. Here are the rules and laws I'm announcing to you today. Learn them well. Be sure to follow them." 
Deuteronomy5:2 The Lord our God made a covenant with us at Mount Horeb. 
Deuteronomy5:3 He didn't make it only with our parents. He also made it with us. In fact, he made it with all of us who are alive here today." 
Deuteronomy5:4 The Lord spoke to you face to face. His voice came out of the fire on the mountain. 
Deuteronomy5:5 At that time I stood between the Lord and you. I announced to you the Lord's message. I did it because you were afraid of the fire. You didn't go up the mountain. The Lord said," 
Deuteronomy5:6 I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. That is the land where you were slaves. 
Deuteronomy5:7 Do not put any other gods in place of me. 
Deuteronomy5:8 Do not make statues of gods that look like anything in the sky or on the earth or in the waters. 
Deuteronomy5:9 Do not bow down to them or worship them. I am the Lord your God. I am a jealous God. I punish the children for the sin of their parents. I judge the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of those who hate me. 
Deuteronomy5:10 But for all time to come I show love to all those who love me and keep my commandments. 
Deuteronomy5:11 Do not misuse the name of the Lord your God. The Lord will find guilty anyone who misuses his name. 
Deuteronomy5:12 Observe the Sabbath day. Keep it holy, just as the Lord your God commanded you." 
Deuteronomy5:13 Do all of your work in six days. 
Deuteronomy5:14 But the seventh day is a Sabbath in honor of the Lord your God. Do not do any work on that day. The same command applies to your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, your oxen, your donkeys and your other animals. It also applies to any outsiders who live in your cities. I want your male and female servants to rest, just as you do." 
Deuteronomy5:15 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. The Lord your God reached out his mighty hand and powerful arm and brought you out of there. So he has commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. 
Deuteronomy5:16 Honor your father and mother, just as the Lord your God commanded you. Then you will live a long time in the land he is giving you. And things will go well with you there." 
Deuteronomy5:17 Do not commit murder. 
Deuteronomy5:18 Do not commit adultery. 
Deuteronomy5:19 Do not steal. 
Deuteronomy5:20 Do not give false witness against your neighbor. 
Deuteronomy5:21 Do not long for your neighbor's wife. Do not long to have anything that belongs to your neighbor. Do not long to have your neighbor's house or land, male or female servant, ox or donkey.""" 
Deuteronomy5:22 Those are the commandments the Lord announced in a loud voice to your whole community. He gave them to you there on the mountain. He spoke out of the fire, cloud and deep darkness. He didn't add anything else. Then he wrote the commandments on two stone tablets. And he gave them to me." 
Deuteronomy5:23 The mountain was blazing with fire. You heard the voice coming out of the darkness. So your elders and all of the leaders of your tribes came to me. 
Deuteronomy5:24 You said, ""The Lord our God has shown us his glory and majesty. We have heard his voice coming out of the fire. Today we have seen that a man can still stay alive even if God speaks with him." 
Deuteronomy5:25 But why should we die? This great fire will burn us up. We'll die if we hear the voice of the Lord our God again. 
Deuteronomy5:26 We have heard the voice of the living God. We've heard him speaking out of the fire. Has any other human being ever heard him speak like that and stayed alive? 
Deuteronomy5:27 Go near and listen to everything the Lord our God says. Then tell us what he tells you. We will listen and obey. 
Deuteronomy5:28 The Lord heard you when you spoke to me. He said to me, ""I have heard what these people said to you. Everything they said was good." 
Deuteronomy5:29 But I wish they would always have respect for me in their hearts. I wish they would always obey all of my commands. Then things would go well with them and their children forever. 
Deuteronomy5:30 Go and tell them to return to their tents. 
Deuteronomy5:31 But you stay here with me. Then I will give you all of my commands, rules and laws. You must teach the people to follow them in the land I am giving them as their very own.""" 
Deuteronomy5:32 So be careful to do what the Lord your God has commanded you. Don't turn away from his commands to the right or the left. 
Deuteronomy5:33 Live exactly as the Lord your God has commanded you to live. Then you will enjoy life in the land you will soon own. Things will go well with you there. You will live there for a long time. 
Deuteronomy6:1 The Lord your God has directed me to teach you his commands, rules and laws. Obey them in the land you will take over when you go across the Jordan River." 
Deuteronomy6:2 Then you, your children and their children after them will have respect for the Lord your God as long as you live. Keep all of his rules and commands I'm giving you. If you do, you will enjoy long life." 
Deuteronomy6:3 Israel, listen to me. Make sure you obey me. Then things will go well with you. Your numbers will increase greatly in a land that has plenty of milk and honey. That's what the Lord, the God of your parents, promised you." 
Deuteronomy6:4 Israel, listen to me. The Lord is our God. The Lord is the one and only God." 
Deuteronomy6:5 Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your strength. 
Deuteronomy6:6 The commandments I give you today must be in your hearts. 
Deuteronomy6:7 Make sure your children learn them. Talk about them when you are at home. Talk about them when you walk along the road. Speak about them when you go to bed. And speak about them when you get up. 
Deuteronomy6:8 Write them down and tie them on your hands as a reminder. Also tie them on your foreheads. 
Deuteronomy6:9 Write them on the doorframes of your houses. Also write them on your gates. 
Deuteronomy6:10 The Lord your God will bring you into the land of Canaan. He took an oath. He promised he would give the land to your fathers. He promised it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. The land has large, wealthy cities you didn't build." 
Deuteronomy6:11 It has houses that are filled with all kinds of good things you didn't provide. It has wells you didn't dig. And it has vineyards and groves of olive trees you didn't plant. You will have plenty to eat. 
Deuteronomy6:12 But be careful that you don't forget the Lord. Remember that he brought you out of Egypt. That's the land where you were slaves. 
Deuteronomy6:13 Worship the Lord your God. He is the only one you should serve. When you make promises, take your oaths in his name." 
Deuteronomy6:14 Don't follow other gods. Don't worship the gods of the nations that are around you. 
Deuteronomy6:15 The Lord your God is among you. He is a jealous God. If you worship other gods, his anger will burn against you. And he will destroy you from the face of the land." 
Deuteronomy6:16 Don't put the Lord your God to the test as you did at Massah. 
Deuteronomy6:17 Be sure to obey the Lord's commands. Follow the terms and rules he has given you. 
Deuteronomy6:18 Do what is right and good in the Lord's eyes. Then things will go well with you. You will go in and take over the land. It's the good land the Lord promised with an oath to your people long ago. 
Deuteronomy6:19 You will drive out all of your enemies to make room for you. That's what the Lord said would happen. 
Deuteronomy6:20 Later on, your son might ask you, ""What is the meaning of the terms, rules and laws the Lord our God has commanded you to obey?""" 
Deuteronomy6:21 If he does, tell him, ""We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt. But the Lord used his mighty hand to bring us out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy6:22 With our own eyes we saw the Lord send miraculous signs and wonders. They were great and terrible. He sent them on Egypt and Pharaoh and everyone in his house. 
Deuteronomy6:23 But the Lord brought us out of Egypt. He planned to bring us into the land of Canaan and give it to us. It's the land he promised with an oath to our people long ago. 
Deuteronomy6:24 The Lord our God commanded us to obey all of his rules. He commanded us to have respect for him. If we do, we will always succeed and be kept alive. That's what is happening today." 
Deuteronomy6:25 We must make sure we obey the whole law in the sight of the Lord our God. That's what he has commanded us to do. If we obey his law, we'll be doing what he requires of us.""" 
Deuteronomy7:1 The Lord your God will bring you into the land. You are going to enter it and take it as your own. He'll drive many nations out to make room for you. He'll drive out the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. Those seven nations are larger and stronger than you are." 
Deuteronomy7:2 The Lord your God will hand them over to you. You will win the battle over them. You must completely destroy them. Don't make a peace treaty with them. Don't show them any mercy. 
Deuteronomy7:3 Don't get married to any of them. Don't give your daughters to their sons. And don't take their daughters for your sons. 
Deuteronomy7:4 If you do, those people will turn your children away from following the Lord. Then your children will serve other gods. The Lord's anger will burn against you. It will quickly destroy you." 
Deuteronomy7:5 So here is what you must do to those people. Break down their altars. Smash their sacred stones. Cut down the poles they use to worship the goddess Asherah. Burn the statues of their gods in the fire. 
Deuteronomy7:6 You are a holy nation. The Lord your God has set you apart for himself. He has chosen you to be his special treasure. He chose you out of all of the nations on the face of the earth to be his people. 
Deuteronomy7:7 The Lord chose you because he loved you very much. He didn't choose you because you had more people than other nations. In fact, you had the smallest number of all." 
Deuteronomy7:8 The Lord chose you because he loved you. He wanted to keep the promise he had made with an oath to your people long ago. That's why he brought you out of Egypt with a mighty hand. He bought you back from the land where you were slaves. He set you free from the power of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy7:9 So I want you to realize that the Lord your God is God. He is the faithful God. He keeps his covenant for all time to come. He keeps it with those who love him and obey his commands. He shows them his love. 
Deuteronomy7:10 But he will pay back those who hate him. He'll destroy them. He'll quickly pay back those who hate him. 
Deuteronomy7:11 So be careful to follow the commands, rules and laws I'm giving you today." 
Deuteronomy7:12 Pay attention to the laws of the Lord your God. Be careful to obey them. Then he will keep his covenant of love with you. That's what he promised with an oath to your people long ago. 
Deuteronomy7:13 The Lord will love you and bless you. He'll increase your numbers. He'll give you many children. He'll bless the crops of your land. He'll give you plenty of grain, olive oil and fresh wine. He'll bless your herds with many calves. He'll give your flocks many lambs. He'll do all of those things for you in the land of Canaan. It's the land he promised your people long ago that he would give you." 
Deuteronomy7:14 He will bless you more than any other nation. All of your men and women will have children. All of your livestock will have little ones. 
Deuteronomy7:15 The Lord will keep you from getting sick. He won't send on you any of the horrible sicknesses you saw all around you in Egypt. But he'll send them on everyone who hates you. 
Deuteronomy7:16 You must destroy all of the nations the Lord your God hands over to you. Don't feel sorry for them. Don't serve their gods. If you do, they will be a trap for you." 
Deuteronomy7:17 You might say to yourselves, ""These nations are stronger than we are. How can we drive them out?""" 
Deuteronomy7:18 But don't be afraid of them. Be sure to remember what the Lord your God did to Pharaoh and all of the Egyptians. 
Deuteronomy7:19 With your own eyes you saw what the Lord did to them. You saw his miraculous signs and wonders. He reached out his mighty hand and powerful arm. The Lord your God used all of those things to bring you out. He will do the same things to all of the nations you are now afraid of. 
Deuteronomy7:20 The Lord your God will also send hornets among them. Some of the people who are left alive will hide from you. But even they will die. 
Deuteronomy7:21 So don't be terrified by them. The Lord your God is with you. He is a great and wonderful God. 
Deuteronomy7:22 The Lord your God will drive out those nations to make room for you. But he will do it little by little. You won't be allowed to get rid of them all at once. If you did, wild animals would multiply all around you." 
Deuteronomy7:23 But the Lord your God will hand those nations over to you. He will throw them into a panic until they are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy7:24 He will hand their kings over to you. You will wipe out their names from the earth. No one will be able to stand up against you. You will destroy them. 
Deuteronomy7:25 Burn the statues of their gods in the fire. Don't long for the silver and gold that is on those statues. Don't take it for yourselves. If you do, it will be a trap for you. The Lord your God hates it." 
Deuteronomy7:26 Don't bring anything he hates into your house. If you do, you will be completely destroyed along with it. So hate it with all your heart. It is set apart to be destroyed." 
Deuteronomy8:1 Make sure you follow every command I'm giving you today. Then you will live. You will increase your numbers. You will enter the land and take it as your own. It's the land the Lord promised with an oath to your people long ago. 
Deuteronomy8:2 Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way. He guided you in the desert for these 40 years. He wanted to take your pride away. He wanted to put you to the test and know what was in your hearts. He wanted to see whether you would obey his commands. 
Deuteronomy8:3 He took your pride away. He let you go hungry. Then he gave you manna to eat. You and your parents had never even known anything about manna before. He tested you to teach you that man doesn't live only on bread. He also lives on every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. 
Deuteronomy8:4 Your clothes didn't wear out during these 40 years. Your feet didn't swell. 
Deuteronomy8:5 Here is what I want you to know in your hearts. The Lord your God trains you, just as parents train their children." 
Deuteronomy8:6 Obey the commands of the Lord your God. Live as he wants you to live. Have respect for him. 
Deuteronomy8:7 The Lord your God is bringing you into a good land. It has streams and pools of water. Springs flow in its valleys and hills. 
Deuteronomy8:8 It has wheat, barley, vines, fig trees, pomegranates, olive oil and honey." 
Deuteronomy8:9 There is plenty of food in that land. You will have everything you need. Its rocks have iron in them. And you can dig copper out of its hills. 
Deuteronomy8:10 When you have eaten and are satisfied, praise the Lord your God. Praise him for the good land he has given you." 
Deuteronomy8:11 Make sure you don't forget the Lord your God. Don't fail to obey his commands, laws and rules. I'm giving them to you today." 
Deuteronomy8:12 But suppose you don't obey his commands. And suppose you have plenty to eat. You build fine houses and settle down in them. 
Deuteronomy8:13 Your herds and flocks increase their numbers. You also get more and more silver and gold. And everything you have multiplies. 
Deuteronomy8:14 Then your hearts will become proud. And you will forget the Lord your God. The Lord brought you out of Egypt. That's the land where you were slaves. 
Deuteronomy8:15 He led you through that huge and terrible desert. It was a dry land. It didn't have any water. It had poisonous snakes and scorpions. The Lord gave you water out of solid rock. 
Deuteronomy8:16 He gave you manna to eat in the desert. Your parents had never even known anything about manna before. The Lord took your pride away. He put you to the test. He did it so that things would go well with you in the end. 
Deuteronomy8:17 You might say to yourselves, ""Our power and our strong hands have made us rich.""" 
Deuteronomy8:18 But remember the Lord your God. He gives you the ability to produce wealth. That shows he stands by the terms of his covenant. He promised it with an oath to your people long ago. And he's still faithful to his covenant today. 
Deuteronomy8:19 Don't forget the Lord your God. Don't follow other gods. Don't worship them and bow down to them. I give witness against you today that if you do, you will certainly be destroyed." 
Deuteronomy8:20 You will be destroyed just like the nations the Lord your God is destroying to make room for you. That's what will happen if you don't obey him. 
Deuteronomy9:1 Israel, listen to me. You are now about to go across the Jordan. You will take over the land of the nations that live there. Those nations are greater and stronger than you are. Their large cities have walls that reach up to the sky." 
Deuteronomy9:2 The people who live there are Anakites. They are strong and tall. You know all about them. You have heard people say, ""Who can stand up against the Anakites?""" 
Deuteronomy9:3 But today you can be sure the Lord your God will go over there ahead of you. He is like a fire that will burn them up. He'll destroy them. He'll bring them under your control. You will drive them out. You will put an end to them quickly, just as the Lord has promised you." 
Deuteronomy9:4 The Lord your God will drive them out to make room for you. When he does, don't say to yourselves, ""The Lord has done it because we are godly. That's why he brought us here to take over this land."" That isn't true. The Lord is going to drive out those nations to make room for you because they are very evil." 
Deuteronomy9:5 You are not going in to take over their land because you have done what is right or honest. It's because those nations are so evil. That's why the Lord your God will drive them out ahead of you. He will do what he said he would do. He took an oath and made a promise to your fathers. He made it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy9:6 The Lord your God is giving you this good land to take as your own. But you must understand that it isn't because you are a godly nation. In fact, you are stubborn." 
Deuteronomy9:7 Here is something you must remember. Never forget it. You made the Lord your God angry in the desert. You refused to obey him from the day you left Egypt until you arrived here. 
Deuteronomy9:8 At Mount Horeb you made the Lord angry enough to destroy you. 
Deuteronomy9:9 I went up the mountain. I went there to receive the tablets of the covenant. They were made out of stone. It was the covenant the Lord had made with you. I stayed on the mountain for 40 days and 40 nights. I didn't eat any food or drink any water. 
Deuteronomy9:10 The Lord gave me two stone tablets. The words on them were written by the finger of God. All of the commandments the Lord gave you were written on the tablets. He announced them to you out of the fire on the mountain. He wrote them on the day you gathered together there. 
Deuteronomy9:11 The 40 days and 40 nights came to an end. Then the Lord gave me the two stone tablets. They were the tablets of the covenant. 
Deuteronomy9:12 The Lord told me, ""Go down from here right away. The people you brought out of Egypt have become very sinful. They have quickly turned away from what I commanded them. They have made a metal statue of a god for themselves.""" 
Deuteronomy9:13 The Lord said to me, ""I have seen these people. They are so stubborn!" 
Deuteronomy9:14 Do not try to stop me. I am going to destroy them. I will wipe them out from the earth. Then I will make you into a great nation. Your people will be stronger than they were. There will be more of you than there were of them. 
Deuteronomy9:15 So I turned and went down the mountain. It was blazing with fire. I was carrying the two tablets of the covenant. 
Deuteronomy9:16 When I looked, I saw that you had sinned against the Lord your God. You had made for yourselves a metal statue of a god. It looked like a calf. You had quickly turned away from the path the Lord had commanded you to follow." 
Deuteronomy9:17 So I threw the two tablets out of my hands. You watched them break into pieces. 
Deuteronomy9:18 Then once again I fell down flat in front of the Lord with my face toward the ground. I lay there for 40 days and 40 nights. I didn't eat any food or drink any water. You had committed a terrible sin. You had done an evil thing in the Lord's sight. You had made him angry. 
Deuteronomy9:19 I was afraid of the Lord's burning anger. He was so angry with you he wanted to destroy you. But the Lord listened to me again. 
Deuteronomy9:20 And he was so angry with Aaron he wanted to destroy him too. But at that time I prayed for Aaron. 
Deuteronomy9:21 I also got that sinful calf you had made. I burned it in the fire. I crushed it and ground it into fine powder. Then I threw the powder into a stream that was flowing down the mountain. 
Deuteronomy9:22 You also made the Lord angry at Taberah, Massah and Kibroth Hattaavah." 
Deuteronomy9:23 The Lord sent you out from Kadesh Barnea. He said, ""Go up and take over the land I have given you."" But you refused to do what the Lord your God had commanded you to do. You didn't trust him or obey him." 
Deuteronomy9:24 You have been refusing to obey the Lord as long as I've known you. 
Deuteronomy9:25 I lay down in front of the Lord with my face toward the ground for 40 days and 40 nights. I did it because the Lord had said he would destroy you. 
Deuteronomy9:26 I prayed to him. Lord and King,"" I said, ""don't destroy your people. They belong to you. You set them free by your great power. You used your mighty hand to bring them out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy9:27 Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Forgive the people of Israel for being so stubborn. Don't judge them for the evil and sinful things they've done." 
Deuteronomy9:28 If you do, the Egyptians will say, 'The Lord wasn't able to take them into the land he had promised to give them. He hated them. So he brought them out of Egypt to put them to death in the desert.'" 
Deuteronomy9:29 But they are your people. They belong to you. You used your great power to bring them out of Egypt. You reached out your mighty arm and saved them. 
Deuteronomy10:1 At that time the Lord spoke to me. He said, ""Carve out two stone tablets, just like the first ones. Then come up to me on the mountain. Also make a wooden chest." 
Deuteronomy10:2 I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. Then you must put the tablets in the chest.""" 
Deuteronomy10:3 So I made the ark out of acacia wood. I carved out two stone tablets that were just like the first ones. I went up the mountain. I carried the two tablets in my hands. 
Deuteronomy10:4 The Lord wrote on the tablets what he had written before. It was the Ten Commandments. He had announced them to you out of the fire on the mountain. It was on the day you had gathered together there. So the Lord gave the tablets to me. 
Deuteronomy10:5 Then I came back down the mountain. I put the tablets in the ark I had made, just as the Lord had commanded me. And that's where they are now." 
Deuteronomy10:6 Remember how the people of Israel traveled from the wells of Bene Jaakan to Moserah. That's where Aaron died. And his body was buried there. His son Eleazar became the next priest after him. 
Deuteronomy10:7 From Moserah the people traveled to Gudgodah. Then they went on to Jotbathah. That land has streams of water. 
Deuteronomy10:8 At that time the Lord set the tribe of Levi apart. He appointed them to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord. He wanted them to serve him. He told them to bless the people in his name. And they still do it today. 
Deuteronomy10:9 That's why the Levites don't have any part of the land the Lord gave the other tribes in Israel. They don't have any share among them. The Lord himself is their share. That's what the Lord your God told them. 
Deuteronomy10:10 I had stayed on the mountain for 40 days and nights, just as I did the first time. The Lord listened to me that time also. He didn't want to destroy you." 
Deuteronomy10:11 Go,"" the Lord said to me. ""Lead the people on their way. Then they can enter the land and take it over. I have taken an oath. I promised I would give the land to their fathers. I promised it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.""" 
Deuteronomy10:12 And now, Israel, what is the Lord your God asking you to do? Have respect for him. Live exactly as he wants you to live. Love him. Serve him with all your heart and with all your soul." 
Deuteronomy10:13 Obey the Lord's commands and rules. I'm giving them to you today for your own good. 
Deuteronomy10:14 The heavens belong to the Lord your God. Even the highest heavens belong to him. He owns the earth and everything in it. 
Deuteronomy10:15 But the Lord loved your people very much long ago. You are their children. And he chose you above all of the other nations. His love and his promise remain with you to this very day. 
Deuteronomy10:16 So don't let your hearts be stubborn anymore. Obey the Lord. 
Deuteronomy10:17 The Lord your God is the greatest God of all. He is the greatest Lord of all. He is the great God. He is mighty and wonderful. He treats everyone the same. He doesn't accept any money from those who want special favors. 
Deuteronomy10:18 He stands up for widows and for children whose fathers have died. He loves outsiders. He gives them food and clothes. 
Deuteronomy10:19 So you also must love outsiders. Remember that you yourselves were outsiders in Egypt. 
Deuteronomy10:20 Have respect for the Lord your God. Serve him. Remain true to him. When you make promises, take your oaths in his name." 
Deuteronomy10:21 He is the one you should praise. He's your God. With your own eyes you saw the great and wonderful miracles he did for you. 
Deuteronomy10:22 Long ago, your people went down into Egypt. The total number of them was 70. And now the Lord your God has made you as many as the stars in the sky." 
Deuteronomy11:1 Love the Lord your God. Do what he requires. Always obey his rules, laws and commands." 
Deuteronomy11:2 Remember today that your children weren't the ones the Lord your God taught and trained. They didn't see his majesty. They weren't in Egypt when he reached out his mighty hand and powerful arm. 
Deuteronomy11:3 They didn't see the miraculous signs and the other things he did in Egypt. They didn't see what he did to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and to his whole country." 
Deuteronomy11:4 They weren't there when he destroyed the army of Egypt and its horses and chariots. The Lord swept the waters of the Red Sea over the Egyptians while they were chasing you. He wiped them out forever. 
Deuteronomy11:5 Your children didn't see what he did for you in the desert before you arrived here. 
Deuteronomy11:6 They didn't see what he did to Dathan and Abiram, who were the sons of Eliab. Eliab was from the tribe of Reuben. The earth opened its mouth right in the middle of the Israelite camp. It swallowed up Dathan and Abiram. It swallowed them up together with their families, tents and every living thing that belonged to them." 
Deuteronomy11:7 But with your own eyes you saw all of the great things the Lord has done. 
Deuteronomy11:8 So obey all of the commands I'm giving you today. Then you will be strong enough to go in and take over the land. You will go across the Jordan River and take it as your own. 
Deuteronomy11:9 You will live in the land for a long time. It's the land the Lord promised to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and their children after them. He took an oath when he made that promise. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey." 
Deuteronomy11:10 You will enter it and take it over. It isn't like the land of Egypt. That's where you came from. You planted your seeds there. You had to water them, just as you have to water a vegetable garden." 
Deuteronomy11:11 But you will soon go across the Jordan River. The land you are going to take over has mountains and valleys in it. It drinks rain from heaven. 
Deuteronomy11:12 It's a land the Lord your God takes care of. His eyes always look on it with favor. He watches over it from the beginning of the year to its end. 
Deuteronomy11:13 So be faithful. Obey the commands the Lord your God is giving you today. Love him. Serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. 
Deuteronomy11:14 Then the Lord will send rain on your land at the right time. He'll send rain in the fall and in the spring. You will be able to gather your grain. You will also be able to make olive oil and fresh wine. 
Deuteronomy11:15 He'll provide grass in the fields for your cattle. You will have plenty to eat. 
Deuteronomy11:16 But be careful. Don't let anyone tempt you to do something wrong. Don't turn away and worship other gods. Don't bow down to them. 
Deuteronomy11:17 If you do, the Lord's anger will burn against you. He'll close up the sky. It won't rain. The ground won't produce its crops. Soon you will die. You won't live to enjoy the good land the Lord is giving you." 
Deuteronomy11:18 So keep my words in your hearts and minds. Write them down and tie them on your hands as a reminder. Also tie them on your foreheads. 
Deuteronomy11:19 Teach them to your children. Talk about them when you are at home. Talk about them when you walk along the road. Speak about them when you go to bed. And speak about them when you get up. 
Deuteronomy11:20 Write them on the doorframes of your houses. Also write them on your gates. 
Deuteronomy11:21 Then you and your children will live for a long time in the land. The Lord took an oath and promised to give the land to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Your family line will continue as long as the heavens remain above the earth." 
Deuteronomy11:22 So be careful. Obey all of the commands I'm giving you to follow. Love the Lord your God. Live exactly as he wants you to live. Remain true to him. 
Deuteronomy11:23 Then the Lord will drive out all of the nations to make room for you. They are larger and stronger than you are. But you will take their land. 
Deuteronomy11:24 Every place you walk on will belong to you. Your territory will go all the way from the desert to Lebanon. It will go from the Euphrates River to the Mediterranean Sea. 
Deuteronomy11:25 No man will be able to stand up against you. The Lord your God will throw the whole land into a panic because of you. He'll do it everywhere you go, just as he promised you." 
Deuteronomy11:26 Listen to me. I'm setting a blessing and a curse in front of you today. 
Deuteronomy11:27 I'm giving you the commands of the Lord your God today. You will be blessed if you obey them. 
Deuteronomy11:28 But you will be cursed if you don't obey them. So don't turn away from the path I'm now commanding you to take. Don't worship other gods. You haven't known anything about them before. 
Deuteronomy11:29 The Lord your God will bring you into the land to take it over. When he does, you must announce the blessings from Mount Gerizim. You must announce the curses from Mount Ebal." 
Deuteronomy11:30 As you know, those mountains are across the Jordan River. They are beyond the road that runs along the west side of the Jordan. They are near the large trees of Moreh. The mountains are in the territory of the Canaanites, who live in the Arabah Valley near Gilgal." 
Deuteronomy11:31 You are about to go across the Jordan River. You will enter the land and take it over. The Lord your God is giving it to you. You will take it over and live there. 
Deuteronomy11:32 When you do, make sure you obey all of the rules and laws I'm giving you today." 
Deuteronomy12:1 Here are the rules and laws you must obey. Be careful to follow them in the land the Lord has given you to take as your own. He's the God of your people who lived long ago. Obey these rules and laws as long as you live in the land. 
Deuteronomy12:2 You will soon drive the nations out of it. Completely destroy all of the places where they worship their gods. Destroy them on the high mountains, on the hills, and under every green tree." 
Deuteronomy12:3 Break down their altars. Smash their sacred stones. Burn up the poles they use to worship the goddess Asherah. Cut down the statues of their gods. Wipe out the names of their gods from those places. 
Deuteronomy12:4 You must not worship the Lord your God the way those nations worship their gods. 
Deuteronomy12:5 Instead, go to the special place he will choose from among all of your tribes. He will put his Name there. That's where you must go." 
Deuteronomy12:6 Take your burnt offerings and sacrifices to that place. Bring your special gifts and a tenth of everything you produce. Take with you what you have promised to give. Bring any other offerings you choose to give. And bring the male animals among your livestock that were born first to their mothers. 
Deuteronomy12:7 You and your families will eat at the place the Lord your God will choose. He will be with you there. You will find joy in everything you have done. That's because he has blessed you. 
Deuteronomy12:8 You must not do as we're doing here today. All of us are doing only what we think is right. 
Deuteronomy12:9 That's because you haven't yet reached the place the Lord is giving you. Your God will give you peace and rest there. 
Deuteronomy12:10 But first you will go across the Jordan River. You will settle in the land he's giving you. It will belong to you as your share. He will give you peace and rest from all of your enemies around you. You will live in safety. 
Deuteronomy12:11 The Lord your God will choose a special place. He will put his Name there. That's where you must bring everything I command you to bring. That includes your burnt offerings and sacrifices. It includes your special gifts and a tenth of everything you produce. It also includes all of the things of value that you promised to give to the Lord. 
Deuteronomy12:12 Be filled with joy there in the sight of the Lord your God. Your children should also be joyful. So should your male and female servants. And so should the Levites from your towns. The Levites won't receive any part of the land as their share. 
Deuteronomy12:13 Be careful not to sacrifice your burnt offerings anywhere you want to. 
Deuteronomy12:14 Offer them only at the place the Lord will choose in one of your tribes. There obey everything I command you. 
Deuteronomy12:15 But you can kill your animals in any of your towns. You can eat as much of the meat as you want to. You can eat it as if it were antelope or deer meat. That's in keeping with the blessing the Lord your God is giving you. Those who are clean and those who are not can eat it. 
Deuteronomy12:16 But you must not eat meat that still has blood in it. Pour the blood out on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy12:17 Here are the things you must not eat in your own towns. You must not eat the tenth part of your grain, olive oil and fresh wine. It belongs to the Lord. You must not eat the male animals among your livestock that were born first to their mothers. Don't eat anything you have promised to give. Don't eat any offerings you have chosen to give. And you must not eat any of your special gifts." 
Deuteronomy12:18 Instead, you must eat all of those things in the sight of the Lord your God. Do it at the place he will choose. You, your children, your male and female servants and the Levites from your towns can eat them. Be filled with joy in the sight of the Lord your God. Be joyful in everything you do." 
Deuteronomy12:19 Don't forget to take care of the Levites as long as you live in your land. 
Deuteronomy12:20 The Lord your God will increase your territory, just as he has promised you. When he does, you might get hungry for meat. You might say, ""I'd really like some meat."" Then you can eat as much of it as you want to." 
Deuteronomy12:21 The Lord your God will choose a special place. He will put his Name there. But suppose it's too far away for you to go to it. Then you can kill animals from the herds and flocks the Lord has given you. Do it just as I have commanded you. In your own towns you can eat as much of the meat as you want to. 
Deuteronomy12:22 Eat it as you would eat antelope or deer meat. Those who are clean and those who are not can eat it. 
Deuteronomy12:23 But be sure you don't eat meat that still has blood in it. The blood is the animal's life. So you must not eat the life along with the meat. 
Deuteronomy12:24 You must not eat the blood. Pour it out on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy12:25 Don't eat it. Then things will go well with you and your children after you. You will be doing what is right in the eyes of the Lord. 
Deuteronomy12:26 But go to the place the Lord will choose. Take with you the things you have set apart for him. Bring what you have promised to give him. 
Deuteronomy12:27 Sacrifice your burnt offerings on the altar of the Lord your God. Offer the meat and the blood there. The blood of your sacrifices must be poured out beside his altar. But you can eat the meat. 
Deuteronomy12:28 Make sure you obey all of the rules I'm giving you. Then things will always go well with you and your children after you. That's because you will be doing what is good and right in the eyes of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy12:29 You are about to attack the land and take it over as your own. When you do, the Lord your God will cut off the nations who live there. He will do it to make room for you. You will drive them out. You will settle in their land." 
Deuteronomy12:30 They will be destroyed to make room for you. But when they are, be careful. Don't be trapped. Don't ask questions about their gods. Don't say, ""How do these nations serve their gods? We'll do it in the same way.""" 
Deuteronomy12:31 You must not worship the Lord your God the way they worship their gods. When they worship, they do all kinds of evil things the Lord hates. They even burn up their children in the fire as sacrifices to their gods." 
Deuteronomy12:32 Be sure you do everything I'm commanding you to do. Don't add anything to my commands. And don't take anything away from them. 
Deuteronomy13:1 Suppose a prophet appears among you. Or someone comes who uses dreams to tell what's going to happen. He tells you that a miraculous sign or wonder is going to take place. 
Deuteronomy13:2 The sign or wonder he has spoken about might really take place. And he might say, ""Let's follow other gods. Let's worship them."" But you haven't known anything about those gods before." 
Deuteronomy13:3 So you must not listen to what that prophet or dreamer has said. The Lord your God is putting you to the test. He wants to know whether you love him with all your heart and with all your soul. 
Deuteronomy13:4 You must follow him. You must have respect for him. Keep his commands. Obey him. Serve him. Remain true to him. 
Deuteronomy13:5 That prophet or dreamer must be put to death. He told you not to obey the Lord your God. The Lord brought you out of Egypt. He set you free from the land where you were slaves. He commanded you to live the way he wants you to. But that prophet or dreamer has tried to make you turn away from it. Get rid of that evil person. 
Deuteronomy13:6 Suppose your very own brother or sister secretly tempts you to do something wrong. Or your child or the wife you love tempts you. Or your closest friend does it. Suppose one of them says, ""Let's go and worship other gods."" But you and your people long ago hadn't known anything about those gods before." 
Deuteronomy13:7 They are the gods of the nations that are around you. Those nations might be near or far away. In fact, they might reach from one end of the land to the other." 
Deuteronomy13:8 Don't give in to those who are tempting you. Don't listen to them. Don't feel sorry for them. Don't spare them or save them. 
Deuteronomy13:9 You must certainly put them to death. You must be the first to throw stones at them. Then all of the people must do the same thing. 
Deuteronomy13:10 Put them to death by throwing stones at them. They tried to turn you away from the Lord your God. He brought you out of Egypt. That's the land where you were slaves. 
Deuteronomy13:11 After you kill those who tempted you, all of the people of Israel will hear about it. And they will be too scared to do an evil thing like that again." 
Deuteronomy13:12 The Lord your God is giving you towns to live in. But suppose you hear something bad about one of those towns. 
Deuteronomy13:13 You hear that evil men have appeared among you. They've tried to get the people of their town to do something wrong. They've said, ""Let's go and worship other gods."" But you haven't known anything about those gods before." 
Deuteronomy13:14 So you must question people. You must check the matter out carefully. If it's true, an evil thing has really happened among you. It's something the Lord hates." 
Deuteronomy13:15 Then you must certainly kill with your swords everyone who lives in that town. Destroy it completely. Wipe out its people and livestock. 
Deuteronomy13:16 Gather all of the goods of that town into the middle of the main street. Burn the town completely. Burn up everything in it. It's a whole burnt offering to the Lord your God. The town must remain a pile of stones forever. It must never be built again. 
Deuteronomy13:17 Don't keep anything that should be destroyed. Then the Lord will turn away from his burning anger. He will show you mercy. He'll have deep concern for you. He'll increase your numbers. That's what he promised your people long ago. He took an oath when he made the promise. 
Deuteronomy13:18 The Lord your God will do those things if you obey him. I'm giving you his commands today. And you must obey all of them. You must do what is right in his eyes. 
Deuteronomy14:1 You are the children of the Lord your God. Don't cut yourselves to honor the dead. Don't shave the front of your heads to honor them. 
Deuteronomy14:2 You are a holy nation. The Lord your God has set you apart for himself. He has chosen you to be his special treasure. He chose you out of all of the nations on the face of the earth. 
Deuteronomy14:3 Don't eat anything the Lord hates. 
Deuteronomy14:4 Here are the only animals you can eat. You can eat oxen, sheep, goats," 
Deuteronomy14:5 deer, gazelles, roe deer, wild goats, ibexes, antelope and mountain sheep." 
Deuteronomy14:6 You can eat any animal that has hoofs that are separated completely in two. But it must also chew the cud. 
Deuteronomy14:7 Some animals only chew the cud. Others only have hoofs that are completely separated in two. The camel, rabbit and rock badger chew the cud, but they don't have hoofs that are completely separated. So you can't eat them. They are not ""clean"" for you." 
Deuteronomy14:8 Pigs aren't clean for you either. They have hoofs that are completely separated, but they don't chew the cud. So don't eat their meat. And don't touch their dead bodies." 
Deuteronomy14:9 Many creatures live in water. You can eat all of the ones that have fins and scales. 
Deuteronomy14:10 But don't eat anything that doesn't have fins and scales. It isn't clean for you. 
Deuteronomy14:11 You can eat any clean bird. 
Deuteronomy14:12 But there are many birds you can't eat. They include eagles, vultures, and black vultures." 
Deuteronomy14:13 They include red kites, black kites and all kinds of falcons." 
Deuteronomy14:14 They include all kinds of ravens. 
Deuteronomy14:15 They include horned owls, screech owls, gulls and all kinds of hawks." 
Deuteronomy14:16 They include little owls, great owls, white owls" 
Deuteronomy14:17 and desert owls. They include ospreys and cormorants. 
Deuteronomy14:18 They include storks and all kinds of herons. They also include hoopoes and bats. 
Deuteronomy14:19 All insects that fly together in groups are unclean for you. So don't eat them. 
Deuteronomy14:20 But you can eat any creature that has wings and is clean. 
Deuteronomy14:21 If you find something that's already dead, don't eat it. You can give it to an outsider who is living in any of your towns. He can eat it. Or you can sell it to someone who is from another country. But you are a holy nation. The Lord your God has set you apart for himself. Don't cook a young goat in its mother's milk." 
Deuteronomy14:22 Be sure to set apart a tenth of everything your fields produce each year. 
Deuteronomy14:23 Here are the things you should eat in the sight of the Lord your God. You should eat a tenth part of your grain, olive oil and fresh wine. You should also eat the male animals among your livestock that were born first to their mothers. Eat all of those things at the special place the Lord your God will choose. He will put his Name there. You will learn to have respect for him always." 
Deuteronomy14:24 But suppose the place the Lord will choose for his Name is too far away from you. And suppose your God has blessed you. And your tenth part is too heavy for you to carry. 
Deuteronomy14:25 Then sell it for silver. Take the silver with you. Go to the place the Lord your God will choose. 
Deuteronomy14:26 Use the silver to buy anything you like. It can be cattle or sheep. It can be any kind of wine. In fact, it can be anything else you wish. Then you and your family can eat there in the sight of the Lord your God. You can be filled with joy." 
Deuteronomy14:27 Don't forget to take care of the Levites who will live in your towns. They won't receive any part of the land as their share. 
Deuteronomy14:28 At the end of every three years, bring a tenth of everything you produce that year. Store it in your towns." 
Deuteronomy14:29 Then the Levites can come and eat. That's because they won't receive any part of the land as their share. The outsiders and widows who live in your towns can come. So can the children whose fathers have died. Everyone can have plenty to eat. Then the Lord your God will bless you in everything you do. 
Deuteronomy15:1 At the end of every seven years you must forgive people what they owe you. 
Deuteronomy15:2 Have you made a loan to one of your own people? Then forgive what is owed to you. You can't require that person to pay you back. The Lord's time to forgive what is owed has been announced. 
Deuteronomy15:3 You can require someone from another nation to pay you back. But you must forgive your own people what they owe you. 
Deuteronomy15:4 There shouldn't be any poor people among you. The Lord will greatly bless you in the land he is giving you. You will take it over as your own. 
Deuteronomy15:5 The Lord your God will bless you if you obey him completely. Be careful to follow all of the commands I'm giving you today. 
Deuteronomy15:6 The Lord your God will bless you, just as he has promised. You will lend money to many nations. But you won't have to borrow from any of them. You will rule over many nations. But none of them will rule over you." 
Deuteronomy15:7 Suppose there are poor people among you. And suppose they live in one of the towns in the land the Lord your God is giving you. Then don't be mean to them. They are poor. So don't hold back money from them. 
Deuteronomy15:8 Instead, open your hands and lend them what they need. Do it freely." 
Deuteronomy15:9 Be careful not to have an evil thought in your mind. Don't say to yourself, ""The seventh year will soon be here. It's the year for forgiving people what they owe."" If you think like that, you might treat your needy people badly. You might not give them anything. Then they might make their appeal to the Lord against you. And he will find you guilty of sin." 
Deuteronomy15:10 So give freely to those who are needy. Open your hearts to them. Then the Lord your God will bless you in all of your work. He will bless you in everything you do. 
Deuteronomy15:11 There will always be poor people in the land. So I'm commanding you to give freely to those who are poor and needy in your land. Open your hands to them. 
Deuteronomy15:12 Suppose Hebrew men or women sell themselves to you. If they do, they will serve you for six years. Then in the seventh year you must let them go free." 
Deuteronomy15:13 But when you set them free, don't send them away without anything to show for all of their work." 
Deuteronomy15:14 Freely give them some animals from your flock. Also give them some of your grain and wine. The Lord your God has blessed you richly. Give to them as he has given to you. 
Deuteronomy15:15 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. The Lord your God set you free. That's why I'm giving you this command today. 
Deuteronomy15:16 But suppose your servant says to you, ""I don't want to leave you."" He loves you and your family. And you are taking good care of him." 
Deuteronomy15:17 Then take him to the door of your house. Poke a hole through his ear lobe into the doorpost. And he will become your servant for life. Do the same with your female servant. 
Deuteronomy15:18 Don't think you are being cheated when you set your servants free. After all, they have served you for six years. The service of each of them has been worth twice as much as the service of a hired worker. And the Lord your God will bless you in everything you do." 
Deuteronomy15:19 Set apart to the Lord your God every male animal among your livestock that was born first to its mother. Don't put that kind of ox to work. Don't clip the wool from that kind of sheep. 
Deuteronomy15:20 Each year you and your family must eat them. Do it in the sight of the Lord your God at the place he will choose. 
Deuteronomy15:21 Suppose an animal has something wrong with it. It might not be able to see or walk. Or it might have a bad flaw. Then you must not sacrifice it to the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy15:22 You must eat it in your own towns. Those who are clean and those who are not can eat it. Eat it as if it were antelope or deer meat. 
Deuteronomy15:23 But you must not eat meat that still has blood in it. Pour the blood out on the ground like water. 
Deuteronomy16:1 Celebrate the Passover Feast of the Lord your God in the month of Abib. In that month he brought you out of Egypt at night. 
Deuteronomy16:2 Sacrifice an animal from your flock or herd. It is the Passover sacrifice in honor of the Lord your God. Sacrifice it at the special place the Lord will choose. He will put his Name there. 
Deuteronomy16:3 Don't eat the animal along with bread that is made with yeast. Instead, for seven days eat bread that is made without yeast. It's the bread that reminds you of how much you suffered. Remember that you left Egypt in a hurry. Remember it all the days of your life. Don't forget the day you left Egypt." 
Deuteronomy16:4 Don't keep any yeast anywhere in your land for seven days. Don't let any of the meat you sacrifice on the evening of the first day be left over until the next morning. 
Deuteronomy16:5 You must not sacrifice the Passover animal in any town the Lord your God is giving you. 
Deuteronomy16:6 Sacrifice it only in the special place he will choose for his Name. Sacrifice it there in the evening when the sun goes down. Do it on the same day every year. Be sure it's the day you left Egypt. 
Deuteronomy16:7 Cook it and eat it. Do it at the place the Lord your God will choose. Then in the morning return to your tents. 
Deuteronomy16:8 For six days eat bread that is made without yeast. On the seventh day come together for a service in honor of the Lord your God. Don't do any work. 
Deuteronomy16:9 Count off seven weeks from the time you begin to cut your grain in the field. 
Deuteronomy16:10 Then celebrate the Feast of Weeks in honor of the Lord your God. Give anything you choose to give as an offering. Do it in keeping with the blessings the Lord has given you. 
Deuteronomy16:11 Be filled with joy in the sight of the Lord your God. Be joyful at the special place he will choose for his Name. You, your children, and your male and female servants should be joyful. So should the Levites who are living in your towns. So should the outsiders and widows who are living among you. And so should the children whose fathers have died." 
Deuteronomy16:12 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. Be careful to obey the rules I'm giving you. 
Deuteronomy16:13 Gather the grain from your threshing floors. Take the fresh wine from your winepresses. Then celebrate the Feast of Booths for seven days. 
Deuteronomy16:14 Be filled with joy at your Feast. You, your children, and your male and female servants should be joyful. So should the Levites, the outsiders, and the widows who are living in your towns. And so should the children whose fathers have died." 
Deuteronomy16:15 For seven days celebrate the Feast in honor of the Lord your God. Do it at the place he will choose. The Lord will bless you when you gather all of your crops. He'll bless you in everything you do. And you will be full of joy. 
Deuteronomy16:16 All of your men must appear in front of the Lord your God at the holy tent. They must go to the place he will choose. They must do it three times a year. They must go there to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks and the Feast of Booths. No man should appear in front of the Lord without bringing something with him." 
Deuteronomy16:17 Each of you must bring a gift. Do it in keeping with the way the Lord your God has blessed you. 
Deuteronomy16:18 Appoint judges and officials for each of your tribes. Do it in every town the Lord your God is giving you. They must judge the people fairly. 
Deuteronomy16:19 Do what is right. Treat everyone the same. Don't take money from people who want special favors. It makes those who are wise close their eyes to the truth. It twists the words of those who do what is right. 
Deuteronomy16:20 Follow only what is right. If you do, you will live. You will take over the land the Lord your God is giving you." 
Deuteronomy16:21 Don't set up a wooden pole that is used to worship the goddess Asherah. Don't set it up beside the altar you build to worship the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy16:22 Don't set up a sacred stone to honor another god. The Lord your God hates Asherah poles and sacred stones. 
Deuteronomy17:1 Suppose an ox or sheep has anything at all wrong with it. Then don't sacrifice it to the Lord your God. He hates it. 
Deuteronomy17:2 Someone who is living among you might do what is evil in the sight of the Lord your God. It might happen in one of the towns the Lord is giving you. That person is breaking the Lord's covenant. 
Deuteronomy17:3 The person might have worshiped or bowed down to other gods. That person might have bowed down to the sun or moon or stars in the sky. I have commanded you not to do those things. 
Deuteronomy17:4 When you hear that people have done something like that, check the matter out carefully. If it's true, an evil thing has been done in Israel. It's something the Lord hates." 
Deuteronomy17:5 So take the person who has done that evil thing to your city gate. Put that person to death with stones. 
Deuteronomy17:6 The witness of two or three people is required to put someone to death. No one can be put to death because of what only one witness says. It needs the witness of two or three people. 
Deuteronomy17:7 The witnesses must throw the first stones. Then the rest of the people must also throw stones. Get rid of that evil person. 
Deuteronomy17:8 People will bring their cases to your courts. But some cases will be too hard for you to judge. They might be about murders, attacks or other crimes. Then take those hard cases to the place the Lord your God will choose." 
Deuteronomy17:9 Go to a priest, who is a Levite. And go to the judge who is in office at that time. Ask them for their decision. They will give it to you." 
Deuteronomy17:10 They'll hand down their decisions at the place the Lord will choose. You must do what they decide. Be careful to do everything they direct you to do. 
Deuteronomy17:11 Act in keeping with the laws they teach you. Accept the decisions they give you. Don't turn away from what they tell you. Don't turn to the right or the left. 
Deuteronomy17:12 Someone might make fun of the judge. Or he might make fun of the priest who serves the Lord your God at the place he will choose. If the man does that, he must be put to death. Remove that evil person from Israel." 
Deuteronomy17:13 All of the people of Israel will hear about it. And they will be afraid to make fun of a judge or priest again. 
Deuteronomy17:14 You will enter the land the Lord your God is giving you. You will take it as your own. You will settle down in it. When you do, you will say, ""Let's appoint a king over us, just like all of the nations around us.""" 
Deuteronomy17:15 When that happens, make sure you appoint over you the king the Lord your God chooses. He must be from among your own people. Don't appoint over you someone from another country. Don't choose anyone who isn't from one of the tribes of Israel." 
Deuteronomy17:16 The king must not get large numbers of horses for himself. He must not make the people return to Egypt to get more horses. The Lord has told you, ""You must not go back there again.""" 
Deuteronomy17:17 The king must not have a lot of wives. If he does, he will be led down the wrong path. He must not store up large amounts of silver and gold." 
Deuteronomy17:18 When he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he must make himself a copy of the law I'm teaching you. He must write it on a scroll. He must copy it from the scroll of a priest, who is a Levite." 
Deuteronomy17:19 The king must keep the scroll close to him at all times. He must read it all the days of his life. Then he can learn to have respect for the Lord his God. He can carefully follow all of the words of that law and those rules. 
Deuteronomy17:20 He won't think of himself as being better than his people are. He won't turn away from the law. He won't turn to the right or the left. Then he and his sons after him will rule over his kingdom in Israel for a long time. 
Deuteronomy18:1 The priests, who are Levites, won't receive any part of the land of Israel. That also applies to the whole tribe of Levi. They will eat the offerings that are made to the Lord with fire. That will be their share." 
Deuteronomy18:2 They won't have any part of the land the Lord gave the other tribes in Israel. The Lord himself is their share, just as he promised them." 
Deuteronomy18:3 Anyone who sacrifices a bull or a sheep owes a share of it to the priests. Their share is the shoulder, jaws and inside parts." 
Deuteronomy18:4 You must give the priests the first share of the harvest of your grain, olive oil and fresh wine. You must also give them the first wool you clip from your sheep." 
Deuteronomy18:5 The Lord your God has chosen the Levites and their sons after them to serve him in his name always. He hasn't chosen priests from any of your other tribes. 
Deuteronomy18:6 Sometimes a Levite will move from the town in Israel where he's living. And he will come to the place the Lord will choose. He'll do it because he really wants to. 
Deuteronomy18:7 Then he can serve in the name of the Lord his God. He'll be like all of the other Levites who serve the Lord there. 
Deuteronomy18:8 He must have an equal share of the good things they have. That applies even if he has already received money by selling things his family owned. 
Deuteronomy18:9 You will enter the land the Lord your God is giving you. When you do, don't copy the practices of the nations that are there. The Lord hates those practices." 
Deuteronomy18:10 Here are things you must not do. Don't sacrifice your children in the fire to other gods. Don't practice any kind of evil magic at all. Don't use magic to try to explain the meaning of warnings in the sky or of any other signs. Don't take part in worshiping evil powers. 
Deuteronomy18:11 Don't put a spell on anyone. Don't get messages from those who have died. Don't talk to the spirits of the dead. Don't get advice from the dead. 
Deuteronomy18:12 The Lord your God hates it when anyone does those things. The nations that are in the land he's giving you practice the things he hates. So he will drive out those nations to make room for you. 
Deuteronomy18:13 You must be without blame in the sight of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy18:14 You will take over the nations that are in the land the Lord is giving you. They listen to those who practice all kinds of evil magic. But you belong to the Lord your God. He says you must not do those things. 
Deuteronomy18:15 The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me. He will be one of your own people. You must listen to him. 
Deuteronomy18:16 At Mount Horeb you asked the Lord your God for a prophet. You asked him on the day you gathered together. You said, ""We don't want to hear the voice of the Lord our God. We don't want to see this great fire anymore. If we do, we'll die.""" 
Deuteronomy18:17 The Lord said to me, ""What they are saying is good." 
Deuteronomy18:18 I will raise up for them a prophet like you. He will be one of their own people. I will put my words in his mouth. He will tell them everything I command him to say. 
Deuteronomy18:19 The prophet will speak in my name. But someone might not listen to what I say through the prophet. Then that person will be accountable to me. 
Deuteronomy18:20 But suppose a prophet dares to speak in my name something I have not commanded him to say. Or he speaks in the name of other gods. Then that prophet must be put to death. 
Deuteronomy18:21 You will say to yourselves, ""How can we know when a message hasn't been spoken by the Lord?""" 
Deuteronomy18:22 Sometimes a prophet will announce something in the name of the Lord. And it won't take place or come true. Then that's a message the Lord hasn't told him to speak. That prophet has dared to speak on his own authority. So don't be afraid of him or what he says. 
Deuteronomy19:1 The Lord your God will destroy the nations whose land he is giving you. You will drive them out. And you will settle down in their towns and houses. 
Deuteronomy19:2 When you do, set apart for yourselves three cities in the land. It's the land the Lord your God is giving you to take as your own." 
Deuteronomy19:3 Build roads to those cities and separate the land into three parts. Then anyone who kills another person can run to one of the cities for safety. They are in the land the Lord your God is giving you as your own. 
Deuteronomy19:4 Here is the rule about a person who kills someone. That person can run to one of those cities for safety. The rule applies to all those who kill a neighbor they didn't hate and didn't mean to kill. 
Deuteronomy19:5 For example, suppose a man goes into a forest with his neighbor to cut wood. When he swings his ax to chop down a tree, the head of the ax flies off. And it hits his neighbor and kills him. Then that man can run to one of those cities and save his life." 
Deuteronomy19:6 If he doesn't go to one of those cities, the dead man's nearest male relative might become very angry. He might chase the man. If the city is too far away, he might catch him and kill him. But he isn't worthy of death, because he didn't hate his neighbor." 
Deuteronomy19:7 That's why I command you to set apart for yourselves three cities. 
Deuteronomy19:8 The Lord your God will increase the size of your territory. He took an oath and promised your fathers he would do it. He will give you the whole land he promised them. 
Deuteronomy19:9 But he'll do it only if you are careful to obey all of the laws I'm commanding you today. I'm commanding you to love the Lord your God. I want you to live always as he wants you to live. When he gives you additional land, you must set apart three more cities." 
Deuteronomy19:10 Do it so the blood of those who aren't guilty of murder won't be spilled in your land. It's the land the Lord your God is giving you as your own. 
Deuteronomy19:11 But suppose a man hates his neighbor. So he hides and waits for him. Then he attacks him and kills him. And he runs to one of those cities for safety. 
Deuteronomy19:12 If he does, the elders of his own town must send for him. He must be brought back from the city and handed over to the dead man's nearest male relative. The relative will kill him." 
Deuteronomy19:13 Don't feel sorry for him. He has killed someone who hadn't done anything wrong. Crimes like that must be punished in Israel. Then things will go well with you. 
Deuteronomy19:14 Don't move your neighbor's boundary stone. It was set up by people who lived there before you. It marks the border of a field in the land you will receive as your own. The Lord your God is giving you that land. You will take it over. 
Deuteronomy19:15 Suppose someone is charged with committing a crime of any kind. Then one witness won't be enough to prove he is guilty. Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses. 
Deuteronomy19:16 Suppose a witness who tells lies goes to court and brings charges against someone. The witness says that person committed a crime. 
Deuteronomy19:17 Then the two people in the case must stand in front of the Lord. They must stand in front of the priests and the judges who are in office at that time. 
Deuteronomy19:18 The judges must check out the matter carefully. And suppose the witness is proved to be lying. Then he has given false witness against another Israelite. 
Deuteronomy19:19 So do to the lying witness what he tried to do to the other person. Get rid of that evil person. 
Deuteronomy19:20 The rest of the people will hear about it. And they will be afraid. They won't allow such an evil thing to be done among them again. 
Deuteronomy19:21 Don't feel sorry for that evil person. A life must be taken for a life. An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth. A hand must be cut off for a hand and a foot for a foot. 
Deuteronomy20:1 When you go to war against your enemies, you might see that they have horses and chariots. They might even have an army that is stronger than yours. But don't be afraid of them. The Lord your God will be with you. After all, he brought you up out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy20:2 Just before you go into battle, the priest will come forward. He'll speak to the army." 
Deuteronomy20:3 He'll say, ""Men of Israel, listen to me. Today you are going into battle against your enemies. Don't be scared. Don't be afraid. Don't panic. Don't be terrified by them." 
Deuteronomy20:4 The Lord your God is going with you. He'll fight for you. He'll help you win the battle over your enemies. 
Deuteronomy20:5 The officers will speak to the army. They will say, ""Has anyone built a new house and not started to live in it? Let him go home. If he doesn't, he might die in battle. Then someone else will live in his house." 
Deuteronomy20:6 Has anyone planted a vineyard and not started to enjoy it? Let him go home. If he doesn't, he might die in battle. Then someone else will enjoy his vineyard." 
Deuteronomy20:7 Has anyone promised to get married to a woman but hasn't done it yet? Let him go home. If he doesn't, he might die in battle. Then someone else will marry her.""" 
Deuteronomy20:8 The officers will continue, ""Is any man afraid? Is anyone scared? Let him go home. Then the other men won't lose hope too.""" 
Deuteronomy20:9 The officers will finish speaking to the army. When they do, they'll appoint commanders over it." 
Deuteronomy20:10 Suppose you march up to attack a city. Before you attack it, offer peace to its people." 
Deuteronomy20:11 Suppose they accept your offer and open their gates. Then force all of the people in the city to be your slaves. They will have to work for you. 
Deuteronomy20:12 But suppose they refuse your offer of peace and prepare for battle. Then surround that city. Get ready to attack it. 
Deuteronomy20:13 The Lord your God will hand it over to you. When he does, kill all of the men with your swords." 
Deuteronomy20:14 But you can take the women and children for yourselves. You can also take the livestock and everything else in the city. What you have captured from your enemies you can use for yourselves. The Lord your God has given it to you. 
Deuteronomy20:15 That's how you must treat all of the cities that are far away from you. Those cities don't belong to the nations that are nearby. 
Deuteronomy20:16 But what about the cities the Lord your God is giving you as your own? Kill everything in those cities that breathes. 
Deuteronomy20:17 Completely destroy them. Wipe out the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. That's what the Lord your God commanded you to do." 
Deuteronomy20:18 If you don't destroy them, they'll teach you to follow all of the things the Lord hates. He hates the way they worship their gods. If you do those things, you will sin against the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy20:19 Suppose you surround a city and get ready to attack it. And suppose you fight against it for a long time in order to capture it. Then don't chop its trees down and destroy them. You can eat their fruit. So don't cut them down. The trees of the field aren't people. So why should you attack them? 
Deuteronomy20:20 But you can cut down trees that you know aren't fruit trees. You can build war machines out of their wood. You can use them until you capture the city you are fighting against. 
Deuteronomy21:1 Suppose you find someone who has been killed. The body is lying in a field in the land the Lord your God is giving you to take as your own. But no one knows who the killer was. 
Deuteronomy21:2 Then your elders and judges will go out and measure how far it is from the body to the nearby towns. 
Deuteronomy21:3 The elders from the town that is nearest to the body will get a young cow. It must never have been used for work. It must never have pulled a load. 
Deuteronomy21:4 The elders must lead it down into a valley. The valley must not have been farmed. There must be a stream flowing through it. There in the valley the elders must break the cow's neck. 
Deuteronomy21:5 The priests, who are sons of Levi, will step forward. The Lord your God has chosen them to serve him. He wants them to bless the people in his name. He wants them to decide all cases that have to do with people arguing and attacking others." 
Deuteronomy21:6 Then all of the elders from the town that is nearest to the body will wash their hands. They will wash them over the young cow whose neck they broke in the valley. 
Deuteronomy21:7 They'll say to the Lord, ""We didn't kill that person. We didn't see it happen." 
Deuteronomy21:8 Accept this payment for the sin of your people Israel. Lord, you have set your people free. Don't hold them guilty for spilling the blood of someone who hasn't done anything wrong."" That will pay for the death of that person." 
Deuteronomy21:9 So you will get rid of the guilt of killing someone who didn't do anything wrong. That's because you have done what is right in the Lord's eyes. 
Deuteronomy21:10 Suppose you go to war against your enemies. And the Lord your God hands them over to you and you take them as prisoners. 
Deuteronomy21:11 Then you notice a beautiful woman among them. If you like her, you can get married to her." 
Deuteronomy21:12 Bring her home. Have her shave her head. Have her cut her nails. 
Deuteronomy21:13 Have her throw away the clothes she was wearing when she was captured. Let her live in your house and sob over her parents for a full month. Then you can go to her and be her husband. And she will be your wife. 
Deuteronomy21:14 But suppose you aren't pleased with her. Then let her go where she wants to. You must not sell her. You must not treat her as a slave. You have already brought shame on her. 
Deuteronomy21:15 Suppose a man has two wives. He loves one but not the other. And both of them have sons by him. But the oldest son is the son of the wife the man doesn't love. 
Deuteronomy21:16 Someday he'll leave his property to his sons. When he does, he must not give the rights of the oldest son to the son of the wife he loves. He must give those rights to his oldest son. He must do it even though his oldest son is the son of the wife he doesn't love." 
Deuteronomy21:17 He must recognize the full rights of the oldest son, even though that son is the son of the wife he doesn't love. He must give that son a double share of everything he has. That son is the first sign of his father's strength. So the rights of the oldest son belong to him." 
Deuteronomy21:18 Suppose someone has a very stubborn son. He doesn't obey his father and mother. And he won't listen to them when they try to correct him. 
Deuteronomy21:19 Then his parents will take hold of him and bring him to the elders at the gate of his town. 
Deuteronomy21:20 They will say to the elders, ""This son of ours is very stubborn. He won't obey us. He wastes his money. He's always getting drunk.""" 
Deuteronomy21:21 Then all of the people in his town will put him to death by throwing stones at him. Get rid of that evil person. All of the people of Israel will hear about it. And they will be afraid to disobey their parents. 
Deuteronomy21:22 Suppose a man is put to death for a crime that is worthy of death. And a pole is stuck through his body and set up where people can see it. 
Deuteronomy21:23 Then you must not leave the body on the pole all night. Make sure you bury it that same day. Everyone who is hung on a pole is under God's curse. You must not make the land unclean. The Lord your God is giving it to you as your own. 
Deuteronomy22:1 Suppose you see your neighbor's ox or sheep wandering away. Then don't act as if you didn't see it. Instead, make sure you take it back to him." 
Deuteronomy22:2 Your neighbor might not live near you. Or you might not know who he is. Then take the animal home with you. Keep it until he comes looking for it. Then give it back. 
Deuteronomy22:3 Do the same thing if you find his donkey, coat or anything he loses. Don't act as if you didn't see it." 
Deuteronomy22:4 Suppose you see your neighbor's donkey or ox that has fallen down on the road. Then don't act as if you didn't see it. Help him get it up on its feet again. 
Deuteronomy22:5 A woman must not wear men's clothes. And a man must not wear women's clothes. The Lord your God hates it when anyone does that. 
Deuteronomy22:6 Suppose you happen to find a bird's nest beside the road. It might be in a tree or on the ground. And suppose the mother bird is sitting on her little birds or on the eggs. Then don't take the mother along with the little ones. 
Deuteronomy22:7 You can take the little ones. But make sure you let the mother go. Then things will go well with you. You will live for a long time. 
Deuteronomy22:8 If you build a new house, put a low wall around the edge of your roof. Then you won't be held accountable if someone falls off your roof and dies." 
Deuteronomy22:9 Don't plant two kinds of seeds in your vineyard. If you do, the crops you grow there will be polluted. Your grapes will also be polluted." 
Deuteronomy22:10 Don't let an ox and a donkey pull the same plow together. 
Deuteronomy22:11 Don't wear clothes made of wool and linen that are woven together. 
Deuteronomy22:12 Make tassels on the four corners of the coat you wear. 
Deuteronomy22:13 Suppose a man gets married to a woman and makes love to her. But then he doesn't like her. 
Deuteronomy22:14 So he tells lies about her and says she's a bad woman. He says, ""I got married to this woman. But when I made love to her, I discovered she wasn't a virgin.""" 
Deuteronomy22:15 Then the woman's parents must bring proof that she was a virgin. They must give the proof to the elders at the gate of the town. 
Deuteronomy22:16 The woman's father will speak to the elders. He'll say, ""I gave my daughter to this man to be his wife. But he doesn't like her." 
Deuteronomy22:17 So now he has told lies about her. He has said, 'I discovered that your daughter wasn't a virgin.' But here's the proof that my daughter was a virgin."" Then her parents will show the elders of the town the cloth that has her blood on it." 
Deuteronomy22:18 The elders will punish the man. 
Deuteronomy22:19 They'll make him weigh out two and a half pounds of silver. They'll give it to the woman's father. That's because the man has said an Israelite virgin is a bad woman. She will continue to be his wife. He must not divorce her as long as he lives. 
Deuteronomy22:20 But suppose the charge is true. And there isn't any proof that the woman was a virgin. 
Deuteronomy22:21 Then she must be brought to the door of her father's house. There the people of her town will put her to death by throwing stones at her. She has done a very terrible thing in Israel. She has had sex before she got married. Get rid of that evil person. 
Deuteronomy22:22 Suppose a man is seen having sex with another man's wife. Then the man and the woman must both die. Get rid of those evil people. 
Deuteronomy22:23 Suppose a man happens to see a virgin in a town. And she has promised to get married to another man. But the man who happens to see her has sex with her. 
Deuteronomy22:24 Then you must take both of them to the gate of that town. You must put them to death by throwing stones at them. You must kill the woman because she was in a town and didn't scream for help. And you must kill the man because he had sex with another man's wife. Get rid of those evil people. 
Deuteronomy22:25 But suppose a man happens to see a woman out in the country. And she has promised to marry another man. But the man who happens to see her rapes her. Then only the man who has done that will die. 
Deuteronomy22:26 Don't do anything to the woman. She hasn't committed a sin that is worthy of death. That case is like the case of someone who attacks and murders his neighbor. 
Deuteronomy22:27 The man found the woman out in the country. And she screamed. But there wasn't anyone around who could save her. 
Deuteronomy22:28 Suppose a man happens to see a virgin who hasn't promised to marry another man. And the man who happens to see her rapes her. But someone discovers them. 
Deuteronomy22:29 Then the man must weigh out 20 ounces of silver. He must give it to the woman's father. The man must marry the woman, because he raped her. And he can never divorce her as long as he lives." 
Deuteronomy22:30 A man must not get married to his stepmother. He must not bring shame on his father by having sex with her. 
Deuteronomy23:1 No man whose sex organs have been crushed or cut can join in worship with the Lord's people. 
Deuteronomy23:2 No one who was born to a woman who wasn't married can join in worship with the Lord's people. That also applies to the person's children for all time to come. 
Deuteronomy23:3 The people of Ammon and Moab can't join in worship with the Lord's people. That also applies to their children after them for all time to come. 
Deuteronomy23:4 The Ammonites and Moabites didn't come to meet you with food and water on your way out of Egypt. They even hired Balaam from Pethor in Aram Naharaim to call down a curse on you. Balaam was the son of Beor. 
Deuteronomy23:5 The Lord your God wouldn't listen to Balaam. Instead, he turned the curse into a blessing for you. He did it because he loves you." 
Deuteronomy23:6 So don't make a peace treaty with the Ammonites and Moabites as long as you live. 
Deuteronomy23:7 Don't hate the people of Edom. They are your relatives. Don't hate the people of Egypt. After all, you lived as outsiders in their country." 
Deuteronomy23:8 The great-grandchildren of the Edomites and Egyptians can join in worship with the Lord's people. 
Deuteronomy23:9 There will be times when you are at war with your enemies. And your soldiers will be in camp. Then keep away from anything that isn't pure and clean. 
Deuteronomy23:10 Suppose semen flows from the body of one of your soldiers during the night. Then that will make him unclean. He must go outside the camp and stay there. 
Deuteronomy23:11 But as evening approaches, he must wash himself. When the sun goes down, he can return to the camp." 
Deuteronomy23:12 Choose a place outside the camp where you can go to the toilet. 
Deuteronomy23:13 Keep a shovel among your tools. When you go to the toilet, dig a hole. Then cover up your waste." 
Deuteronomy23:14 The Lord your God walks around in your camp. He's there to keep you safe. He's also there to hand your enemies over to you. So your camp must be holy. Then he won't see anything among you that is shameful. He won't turn away from you. 
Deuteronomy23:15 If a slave comes to you for safety, don't hand him over to his master." 
Deuteronomy23:16 Let him live among you anywhere he wants to. Let him live in any town he chooses. Don't crush him. 
Deuteronomy23:17 A man or woman in Israel must not become a temple prostitute. 
Deuteronomy23:18 The Lord your God hates the money that men and women get for being prostitutes. So don't take that money into the house of the Lord to pay what you promised to give. 
Deuteronomy23:19 Don't charge your own people any interest. Don't charge them when they borrow money, food or anything else." 
Deuteronomy23:20 You can charge interest to people from another country. But don't charge your own people. Then the Lord your God will bless you in everything you do. He will bless you in the land you are entering to take as your own. 
Deuteronomy23:21 Don't put off giving to the Lord your God everything you promise him. He will certainly require it from you. And you will be guilty of committing a sin. 
Deuteronomy23:22 But if you don't make a promise, you won't be guilty." 
Deuteronomy23:23 Make sure you do what you promised to do. With your own mouth you made the promise to the Lord your God. No one forced you to do it. 
Deuteronomy23:24 When you enter your neighbor's vineyard, you can eat all of the grapes you want. But don't put any of them in your basket." 
Deuteronomy23:25 When you enter your neighbor's field, you can pick heads of grain. But don't cut down his standing grain." 
Deuteronomy24:1 Suppose a man gets married to a woman. But later he decides he doesn't like her. He finds something shameful about her. So he gives her a letter of divorce and sends her away from his house. 
Deuteronomy24:2 Then after she leaves his house she becomes another man's wife. 
Deuteronomy24:3 But her second husband doesn't like her either. So he gives her a letter of divorce and sends her away from his house. Or perhaps he dies. 
Deuteronomy24:4 Then her first husband isn't allowed to marry her again. The Lord would hate that. When her first husband divorced her, she became ""unclean."" Don't bring sin on the land the Lord your God is giving you as your own." 
Deuteronomy24:5 Suppose a man has just gotten married. Then don't send him into battle. Don't give him any other duty either. He's free to stay home for one year. He needs time to make his new wife happy. 
Deuteronomy24:6 Someone might borrow money from you and give you two millstones to keep until you are paid back. Don't keep them. Don't even keep the upper one. That person depends on the millstones to make a living. 
Deuteronomy24:7 Suppose a man is caught kidnapping another Israelite. And he sells or treats that person as a slave. Then the kidnapper must die. Get rid of that evil person. 
Deuteronomy24:8 What about skin diseases? Be very careful to do exactly what the priests, who are Levites, tell you to do. You must be careful to follow the commands I've given them." 
Deuteronomy24:9 Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam on your way out of Egypt. 
Deuteronomy24:10 Suppose your neighbor borrows something from you. And he offers you something to keep until you get paid back. Then don't go into his house to get it. 
Deuteronomy24:11 Stay outside. Let the man bring it out to you. 
Deuteronomy24:12 He might be poor. You might be given his coat to keep until you get paid back. Don't go to sleep while you still have it. 
Deuteronomy24:13 Return it before the sun goes down. He needs it to sleep in and will thank you for returning it. The Lord your God will see it and know that you have done the right thing. 
Deuteronomy24:14 Don't take advantage of any hired worker who is poor and needy. That applies to your own people. It also applies to outsiders who are living in one of your towns. 
Deuteronomy24:15 Give them their pay every day. They are poor and are counting on it. If you don't pay them, they might cry out to the Lord against you. Then you will be guilty of committing a sin." 
Deuteronomy24:16 Parents must not be put to death because of what their children do. And children must not be put to death because of what their parents do. People must die because of their own sins. 
Deuteronomy24:17 Do what is right and fair for outsiders and for children whose fathers have died. Suppose a widow borrows something from you. And she offers to give you her coat until she pays you back. Don't take it. 
Deuteronomy24:18 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. Remember that the Lord your God set you free from there. That's why I'm commanding you to do those things. 
Deuteronomy24:19 When you are gathering crops in your field, you might leave some grain behind by mistake. Don't go back to get it. Leave it for outsiders and widows. Leave it for children whose fathers have died. Then the Lord your God will bless you in everything you do." 
Deuteronomy24:20 When you knock olives off your trees, don't go back over the branches a second time. Leave what remains for outsiders and widows. Leave it for children whose fathers have died." 
Deuteronomy24:21 When you pick grapes in your vineyard, don't go back over the vines a second time. Leave what remains for outsiders and widows. Leave it for children whose fathers have died." 
Deuteronomy24:22 Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. That's why I'm commanding you to do those things. 
Deuteronomy25:1 Suppose two men don't agree about something. Then they must take their case to court. The judges will decide the case. They will let the one who isn't guilty go free. And they will punish the one who is guilty. 
Deuteronomy25:2 The guilty one might have done something that's worthy of a beating. Then the judge will make him lie down and be beaten with a whip right there in court. The number of strokes should fit the crime. 
Deuteronomy25:3 But the judge must not give the guilty man more than 40 strokes. If more than that are used, you will look down on your Israelite neighbor." 
Deuteronomy25:4 Don't stop an ox from eating while you use it to separate grain from straw. 
Deuteronomy25:5 Suppose two brothers are living near each other. And one of them dies without having a son. Then his widow must not get married to anyone outside the family. Her husband's brother should marry her. That's what a brother-in-law is supposed to do. 
Deuteronomy25:6 Her first baby boy will be named after her first husband. Then the dead man's name will not be wiped out in Israel. 
Deuteronomy25:7 But suppose the man doesn't want to get married to his brother's wife. Then she will go to the elders at the gate of the town. She will say, ""My husband's brother refuses to keep his brother's name alive in Israel. He won't do for me what a brother-in-law is supposed to do.""" 
Deuteronomy25:8 Then the elders in his town will send for him. They will talk to him. But he still might say, ""I don't want to marry her.""" 
Deuteronomy25:9 Then his brother's widow will go up to him in front of the elders. She'll pull one of his sandals off his foot. She'll spit in his face. And she'll say, ""That's what we do to a man who won't build up his brother's family line.""" 
Deuteronomy25:10 That man's family line will be known in Israel as The Family of the Man Whose Sandal Was Pulled Off. 
Deuteronomy25:11 Suppose two men are fighting. And the wife of one of them comes to save her husband from his attacker. So she reaches out and grabs hold of his sex organs. 
Deuteronomy25:12 Then you must cut off her hand. Don't feel sorry for her. 
Deuteronomy25:13 Don't have two different scales. You must not have one that weighs things heavier than they really are and another that weighs them lighter than they are. 
Deuteronomy25:14 And don't have two different sets of measures. You must not have one set that measures things larger than they really are and another that measures them smaller than they are. 
Deuteronomy25:15 You must use weights and measures that are honest and exact. Then you will live a long time in the land the Lord your God is giving you. 
Deuteronomy25:16 He hates anyone who cheats. 
Deuteronomy25:17 Remember what the Amalekites did to you on your way out of Egypt. 
Deuteronomy25:18 You were tired and worn out. They met you on your journey. They attacked everyone who was lagging behind. They didn't have any respect for God. 
Deuteronomy25:19 The Lord your God will give you peace and rest from all of the enemies who are around you. He'll do it in the land he's giving you to take over as your very own. Then you will wipe out the memory of the Amalekites from the earth. Don't forget to do it! 
Deuteronomy26:1 You will enter the land the Lord your God is giving you as your own. You will take it over. You will settle down in it. 
Deuteronomy26:2 When you do, get some of the first share of everything your soil produces. Put it in a basket. It's from the land the Lord your God is giving you. Take your gifts and go to the special place he will choose. He will put his Name there." 
Deuteronomy26:3 Speak to the priest who is in office at that time. Tell him, ""I announce today to the Lord your God that I have come to this land. It's the land he promised with an oath to our fathers to give us.""" 
Deuteronomy26:4 The priest will take the basket from you. He'll set it down in front of the altar of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy26:5 Then you will speak while the Lord is listening. You will say, ""My father Jacob was a wanderer from the land of Aram. He went down into Egypt with a few people. He lived there and became the father of a great nation. It had huge numbers of people." 
Deuteronomy26:6 But the people of Egypt treated us badly. They made us suffer. They made us work very hard. 
Deuteronomy26:7 Then we cried out to the Lord. He is the God of our people who lived long ago. He heard our voice. He saw how much we were suffering. The Egyptians were crushing us. They were making us work very hard. 
Deuteronomy26:8 So the Lord reached out his mighty hand and powerful arm and brought us out of Egypt. He did great and wonderful things. He did miraculous signs and wonders. 
Deuteronomy26:9 He brought us to this place. He gave us this land. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey. 
Deuteronomy26:10 Now, Lord, I'm bringing you the first share of crops from the soil. After all, you have given them to me."" Place the basket in front of the Lord your God. Bow down to him." 
Deuteronomy26:11 You and the Levites and the outsiders among you will be full of joy. You will enjoy all of the good things the Lord your God has given to you and your family. 
Deuteronomy26:12 You will set apart a tenth of everything you produce in the third year. That's the year for giving the tenth to people who have special needs. You will give it to the Levites, outsiders and widows. You will also give it to children whose fathers have died. Then all of them will have plenty to eat in your towns." 
Deuteronomy26:13 Speak to the Lord your God. Say to him, ""I have taken your sacred share from my house. I have given it to the Levites, outsiders and widows. I have also given it to children whose fathers have died. I've done everything you commanded me to do. I haven't turned away from your commands. I haven't forgotten any of them." 
Deuteronomy26:14 I haven't eaten any part of your sacred share while I was sobbing over someone who had died. I haven't taken any of it from my house while I was 'unclean.' And I haven't offered any of it to the dead. Lord my God, I've obeyed you. I've done everything you commanded me to do." 
Deuteronomy26:15 Look down from the holy place where you live in heaven. Bless your people Israel. Bless the land you have given us. It's the land you promised with an oath to give to our fathers. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey. 
Deuteronomy26:16 This very day the Lord your God commands you to follow all of those rules and laws. Be careful to obey them with all your heart and with all your soul. 
Deuteronomy26:17 Today you have announced that the Lord is your God. You have said you would live exactly as he wants you to live. You have agreed to keep his rules, commands and laws. And you have said you would obey him." 
Deuteronomy26:18 Today the Lord has announced that you are his people. He has said that you are his special treasure. He promised that you would be. He has told you to keep all of his commands. 
Deuteronomy26:19 He has announced that he will make you famous. He'll give you more praise and honor than all of the other nations he has made. And he has said that you will be a holy nation. The Lord your God has set you apart for himself. That's exactly what he promised to do. 
Deuteronomy27:1 The elders of Israel and I gave commands to the people. We said, ""Obey all of the commands we're giving you today." 
Deuteronomy27:2 You will go across the Jordan River. You will enter the land the Lord your God is giving you. When you do, set up some large stones. Put a coat of plaster on them." 
Deuteronomy27:3 Write all of the words of this law on them. Do it when you have crossed over into the land the Lord your God is giving you. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey. The Lord is the God of your fathers. He promised you that you would enter the land. 
Deuteronomy27:4 After you have gone across the Jordan, set up those stones on Mount Ebal. Put a coat of plaster on them. We're commanding you today to do that." 
Deuteronomy27:5 Build an altar there to honor the Lord your God. Make it out of stones. Don't use any iron tool on them. 
Deuteronomy27:6 Use stones you find in the fields to build his altar. Then offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy27:7 Sacrifice friendship offerings there. Eat them and be filled with joy in the sight of the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy27:8 You must write all of the words of this law on the stones you have set up. Write the words very clearly. 
Deuteronomy27:9 Then the priests, who are Levites, and I spoke to all of the people of Israel. We said, ""Israel, be quiet! Listen! You have now become the people of the Lord your God." 
Deuteronomy27:10 Obey him. Follow his commands and rules that we're giving you today. 
Deuteronomy27:11 Here are the commands I gave the people that very day. 
Deuteronomy27:12 You will go across the Jordan River. When you do, I want six tribes to stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people. Those tribes are Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph and Benjamin." 
Deuteronomy27:13 I want the other six tribes to stand on Mount Ebal to announce some curses. Those tribes are Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan and Naphtali." 
Deuteronomy27:14 The Levites will speak to all of the people of Israel in a loud voice. They will say," 
Deuteronomy27:15 May any man who makes a wooden or metal statue of a god and sets it up in secret be under the Lord's curse. That statue is made by a skilled worker. And the Lord hates it. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:16 May anyone who brings shame on his father or mother be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:17 May anyone who moves his neighbor's boundary stone be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:18 May anyone who leads blind people down the wrong road be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:19 May anyone who isn't fair in the way he treats outsiders, widows, and children whose fathers have died be under the Lord's curse."" Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:20 May any man who has sex with his stepmother be under the Lord's curse. That man brings shame on his father by doing that. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:21 May anyone who has sex with animals be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:22 May any man who has sex with his sister be under the Lord's curse. It doesn't matter whether she is his full sister or his half sister. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:23 May any man who has sex with his mother-in-law be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:24 May anyone who kills his neighbor secretly be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:25 May anyone who accepts money to kill someone who isn't guilty of doing anything wrong be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy27:26 May anyone who doesn't honor the words of this law by obeying them be under the Lord's curse. Then all of the people will say, ""Amen!""" 
Deuteronomy28:1 Make sure you obey the Lord your God completely. Be careful to follow all of his commands. I'm giving them to you today. If you do those things, the Lord will honor you more than all of the other nations on earth." 
Deuteronomy28:2 If you obey the Lord your God, here are the blessings that will come to you and remain with you." 
Deuteronomy28:3 You will be blessed in the cities. You will be blessed out in the country. 
Deuteronomy28:4 Your children will be blessed. Your crops will be blessed. The young animals among your livestock will be blessed. That includes your calves and lambs. 
Deuteronomy28:5 Your baskets and bread pans will be blessed. 
Deuteronomy28:6 You will be blessed no matter where you go. 
Deuteronomy28:7 Enemies will rise up against you. But the Lord will help you win the battle over them. They will come at you from one direction. But they'll run away from you in seven directions. 
Deuteronomy28:8 The Lord your God will bless your barns with plenty of grain and other food. He will bless everything you do. He'll bless you in the land he's giving you. 
Deuteronomy28:9 The Lord your God will make you his holy people. He will set you apart for himself. He took an oath and promised to do that. He promised to do it if you would keep his commands and live exactly as he wants you to live. 
Deuteronomy28:10 All of the nations on earth will see that you belong to the Lord. And they will be afraid of you. 
Deuteronomy28:11 The Lord will give you more than you need. You will have many children. Your livestock will have many little ones. Your crops will do very well. All of that will happen in the land he promised with an oath to your fathers to give you. 
Deuteronomy28:12 The Lord will open up the heavens. That's where he stores his riches. He will send rain on your land at just the right time. He'll bless everything you do. You will lend money to many nations. But you won't have to borrow from any of them. 
Deuteronomy28:13 The Lord your God will make you leaders, not followers. Pay attention to his commands that I'm giving you today. Be careful to follow them. Then you will always be on top. You will never be on the bottom." 
Deuteronomy28:14 Don't turn away from any of the commands I'm giving you today. Don't turn to the right or the left. Don't follow other gods. Don't worship them. 
Deuteronomy28:15 But suppose you don't obey the Lord your God. And you aren't careful to follow all of his commands and rules I'm giving you today. Then he will send curses on you. They'll catch up with you. Here are those curses. 
Deuteronomy28:16 You will be cursed in the cities. You will be cursed out in the country. 
Deuteronomy28:17 Your baskets and bread pans will be cursed. 
Deuteronomy28:18 Your children will be cursed. Your crops will be cursed. Your calves and lambs will be cursed. 
Deuteronomy28:19 You will be cursed no matter where you go. 
Deuteronomy28:20 The Lord will send curses on you. You won't know what's going on. In everything you do, he will be angry with you. You will be destroyed suddenly and completely. That will happen because you did an evil thing when you deserted the Lord." 
Deuteronomy28:21 He will send all kinds of sicknesses on you. He'll send them until he has destroyed you. He'll remove you from the land you are entering to take as your own. 
Deuteronomy28:22 The Lord will make you sick and very weak. He will strike you with fever and swelling. He'll send burning heat. There won't be any rain. The hot winds will completely dry up your crops. All of those things will happen until you die. 
Deuteronomy28:23 The sky above you will be like bronze. The ground beneath you will be like iron. 
Deuteronomy28:24 The Lord will turn the rain of your country into dust and powder. It will come down from the skies until you are destroyed. 
Deuteronomy28:25 The Lord will help your enemies win the battle over you. You will come at them from one direction. But you will run away from them in seven directions. You will look so bad that all of the kingdoms on earth will be completely shocked when they see you. 
Deuteronomy28:26 Birds and wild animals will eat up your dead bodies. There won't be anyone left to scare them away. 
Deuteronomy28:27 The Lord will send boils on you, just like the ones he sent on the Egyptians. You will have growths in your bodies and boils on your skin. You will itch all over. No one will be able to heal you." 
Deuteronomy28:28 The Lord will make you lose your mind. He will make you blind. You won't know what's going on. 
Deuteronomy28:29 Even at noon you will have to feel your way around like a blind person in the dark. You won't have success in anything you do. Day after day you will be robbed and beaten down. No one will be able to save you. 
Deuteronomy28:30 You and a woman will promise to get married to each other. But another man will take her and rape her. You will build a house. But you won't live in it. You will plant a vineyard. But you won't eat a single grape from it. 
Deuteronomy28:31 Your ox will be killed right in front of your eyes. But you won't eat any of it. Your donkey will be taken away from you by force. And you will never get it back. Your sheep will be given to your enemies. No one will be able to save them. 
Deuteronomy28:32 Your children will be given to another nation. Day after day you will watch for them to come back. But you will only wear out your eyes. You won't be able to help your children. 
Deuteronomy28:33 A nation you don't know anything about will eat what you work to produce on your land. You will be completely beaten down as long as you live. 
Deuteronomy28:34 The things you see will make you lose your mind. 
Deuteronomy28:35 The Lord will send painful boils on your knees and legs. No one will be able to heal them. They will cover you from head to toe. 
Deuteronomy28:36 The Lord will drive you out of the land. And he will drive out the king you place over you. All of you will go to a nation you and your people long ago didn't know anything about. There you will worship other gods. They will be made out of wood and stone. 
Deuteronomy28:37 You will look very bad to all of the nations where the Lord sends you. They will be completely shocked when they see you. They will laugh at you and make fun of you. 
Deuteronomy28:38 You will plant many seeds in your field. But you will gather very little food. Locusts will eat it up. 
Deuteronomy28:39 You will plant vineyards and take care of them. But you won't drink the wine. You won't gather the grapes. Worms will eat them up. 
Deuteronomy28:40 You will have olive trees through your whole country. But you won't use the oil. The olives will drop off the trees. 
Deuteronomy28:41 You will have children. But you won't be able to keep them. They'll be taken away as prisoners. 
Deuteronomy28:42 Large numbers of locusts will eat up the leaves on all of your trees. They will also eat up the crops on your land. 
Deuteronomy28:43 Outsiders who live among you will become your leaders. They will rise higher and higher. But you will sink lower and lower. 
Deuteronomy28:44 They will lend money to you. But you won't be able to lend money to them. They will be the leaders. But you will be the followers. 
Deuteronomy28:45 The Lord your God will send all of those curses on you. They will follow you everywhere. They'll catch up with you. You will be under the Lord's curse until you are destroyed. That's because you didn't obey him. You didn't keep the commands and rules he gave you. 
Deuteronomy28:46 Those curses will remain as miraculous signs and wonders against you and your children after you forever. 
Deuteronomy28:47 You didn't serve the Lord your God with joy and gladness when times were good. 
Deuteronomy28:48 So he will send enemies against you. You will have to serve them. You will be hungry and thirsty. You will be naked and poor. The Lord will put the iron chains of slavery around your necks until he has destroyed you. 
Deuteronomy28:49 The Lord will bring a nation against you from far away. It will come from the ends of the earth. It will dive down on you like an eagle. You won't understand that nation's language. 
Deuteronomy28:50 Its people will look mean. They won't have any respect for old people. They won't show any kindness to young people. 
Deuteronomy28:51 They will eat up the young animals among your livestock. They'll eat up the crops on your land. They'll destroy you. They won't leave you any grain, olive oil or fresh wine. They won't leave you any calves or lambs. They'll destroy you." 
Deuteronomy28:52 They'll surround all of the cities through your whole land. They'll get ready to attack them. They'll do those things until the high, strong walls you trust in fall down. That's what will happen to the cities in the land the Lord your God is giving you." 
Deuteronomy28:53 Your enemies will surround you and get ready to attack you. They will make you suffer greatly. So you will eat your own children. You will eat the dead bodies of the sons and daughters the Lord your God has given you. 
Deuteronomy28:54 There may be a gentle and caring man among you. But he will treat his own brother badly. He'll be just as mean to the wife he loves and to any of his children who are still alive. 
Deuteronomy28:55 He won't give to a single one of them any part of the dead bodies of his children that he's eating. It will be all he has left to eat. That's how much your enemies will make you suffer when they surround all of your cities to attack them. 
Deuteronomy28:56 There may be a gentle and caring woman among you. She wouldn't even touch the ground with her feet without first putting her sandals on. But she will not share anything with the husband she loves. She won't share with her own children either. 
Deuteronomy28:57 She will eat what comes out of her body after she has a baby. Then she'll even eat her baby. She won't share it with anyone in her family. She'll plan to eat it in secret. There won't be anything else for her to eat because the city she lives in will be surrounded. That's an example of how much your enemies will make you suffer when they are getting ready to attack your cities. 
Deuteronomy28:58 Be careful to follow all of the words of this law. They are written in this scroll. Have respect for the glorious and wonderful name of the Lord your God. If you don't," 
Deuteronomy28:59 he will send terrible plagues on you and your children after you. He'll send horrible and lasting troubles. He'll make you very sick for a long time. 
Deuteronomy28:60 He'll bring on you all of the sicknesses you were afraid of getting when you were in Egypt. You won't be able to get rid of them. 
Deuteronomy28:61 The Lord will also bring on you all of the other kinds of sickness and trouble I haven't written down in this Scroll of the Law. You will be destroyed. 
Deuteronomy28:62 At one time you were as many as the stars in the sky. But there will only be a few of you left. That's because you didn't obey the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy28:63 It pleased the Lord to give you success and to increase your numbers. But it will please him just as much to wipe you out and destroy you. You will be removed from the land you are entering to take as your own. 
Deuteronomy28:64 Then the Lord will scatter you among all of the nations. He'll spread you around from one end of the earth to the other. There you will worship statues of gods that are made out of wood and stone. You and your people long ago hadn't known anything about those gods. 
Deuteronomy28:65 Among those nations you won't find any peace. There won't be any place where you can settle down and rest your feet. There the Lord will give you minds that are filled with worry. He'll give you eyes that are worn out from sobbing. Your hearts won't have any hope. 
Deuteronomy28:66 Your lives will always be in danger. You will be filled with fear night and day. You will never be sure you are safe. 
Deuteronomy28:67 In the morning you will say, ""We wish it were evening!"" In the evening you will say, ""We wish it were morning!"" Your hearts will be filled with fear. The things you see will terrify you." 
Deuteronomy28:68 The Lord will send you back to Egypt in ships. He'll send you on a journey I said you should never have to make again. You will offer to sell yourselves to your enemies as slaves in Egypt. But no one will buy you. 
Deuteronomy29:1 These are the terms of the covenant the Lord commanded me to make with the people of Israel in Moab. The terms were added to the covenant he had made with them at Mount Horeb. 
Deuteronomy29:2 I sent for all of the Israelites. Here is what I said to them. With your own eyes you have seen everything the Lord did in Egypt to Pharaoh. You have seen what he did to all of Pharaoh's officials and to his whole land. 
Deuteronomy29:3 With your own eyes you saw how the Lord really made them suffer. You saw his miraculous signs and great wonders. 
Deuteronomy29:4 But to this very day the Lord hasn't given you a mind that understands. He hasn't given you eyes that see. He hasn't given you ears that hear. 
Deuteronomy29:5 He led you through the desert for 40 years. During that time your clothes didn't wear out. The sandals on your feet didn't wear out either. 
Deuteronomy29:6 You didn't eat any bread. You didn't drink any kind of wine. The Lord did all of those things because he wanted you to know that he is the Lord your God. 
Deuteronomy29:7 When we got here, Sihon and Og came out to fight against us. Sihon was the king of Heshbon. And Og was the king of Bashan. But we won the battle over them." 
Deuteronomy29:8 We took their land. We gave it to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh as their share. 
Deuteronomy29:9 Be careful to obey the terms of this covenant. Then you will have success in everything you do. 
Deuteronomy29:10 Today all of you are standing here in the sight of the Lord your God. Your leaders and chief men are here. Your elders and officials are here. So are all of the other men of Israel. 
Deuteronomy29:11 Your children and wives are here with you too. So are the outsiders who are living in your camps. They chop your wood and carry your water. 
Deuteronomy29:12 All of you are standing here in order to enter into a covenant with the Lord your God. He is making the covenant with you today. He's sealing it with an oath. 
Deuteronomy29:13 Today he wants to show you that you are his people and that he is your God. That's what he promised with an oath to your fathers. He promised it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy29:14 I'm making this covenant. I'm sealing it with an oath. I'm not making it only with you 
Deuteronomy29:15 who are standing here with us today in the sight of the Lord our God. I'm also making it with those who aren't here today. 
Deuteronomy29:16 You yourselves know how we lived in Egypt. You also know how we passed through other countries on the way here. 
Deuteronomy29:17 You saw the statues of their gods that were made out of wood, stone, silver and gold. The Lord hates those statues." 
Deuteronomy29:18 Make sure there isn't a man or woman among your families or tribes who turns away from the Lord our God. No one must worship the gods of those nations. Make sure that kind of worship doesn't spread like bitter poison through your whole community. 
Deuteronomy29:19 Some people who worship those gods will hear the oath that seals the covenant I'm making. They think they can escape trouble by saying to themselves, ""We'll be safe, even though we're stubborn and go our own way."" But trouble will come on them everywhere in the land." 
Deuteronomy29:20 The Lord will never be willing to forgive those people. His burning anger will blaze out against them. All of the curses I've written down in this scroll will fall on them. And the Lord will wipe out their names from the earth. 
Deuteronomy29:21 He will find those people in all of the tribes of Israel and give them nothing but trouble. That will be in keeping with all of the curses of the covenant. They are written down in this Scroll of the Law. 
Deuteronomy29:22 Even your children's children will see the troubles that have fallen on the land. They'll see the sicknesses the Lord has brought on it. People who come from countries far away will also see those things. 
Deuteronomy29:23 The whole land will be burned up. Nothing but salt and sulfur will be left. Nothing will be planted there. Nothing will grow there. In fact, nothing will even start to grow there. The land will be like Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim after they were destroyed. The Lord wiped out those cities because he was very angry." 
Deuteronomy29:24 All of the nations will ask, ""Why has the Lord done this to the land? What could have made him so very angry?""" 
Deuteronomy29:25 And they will hear the answer, ""It's because the people who are living there have broken the covenant of the Lord. He's the God of their parents. He made that covenant with them when he brought them out of Egypt." 
Deuteronomy29:26 They went off and worshiped other gods. They bowed down to them. They hadn't known anything about those gods before. The Lord hadn't given those gods to them. 
Deuteronomy29:27 So the Lord's anger burned against the land. He brought on it all of the curses that are written down in this scroll. 
Deuteronomy29:28 The Lord's anger blazed out against his people. So he pulled them up out of their land. He threw them into another land. And that's where they are now. 
Deuteronomy29:29 The Lord our God keeps certain things hidden. But he makes other things known to us and our children forever. He does it so we can obey all of the words of this law. 
Deuteronomy30:1 I have told you about all of those blessings and curses. The Lord will bring them on you. Then you will think carefully about them everywhere the Lord your God scatters you among the nations. 
Deuteronomy30:2 You and your children will return to the Lord your God. You will obey him with all your heart and with all your soul. That will be in keeping with everything I'm commanding you today. 
Deuteronomy30:3 When all of that happens, the Lord your God will bless you with great success again. He will be very kind to you. He'll bring you back from all of the nations where he scattered you." 
Deuteronomy30:4 Suppose you have been forced to go away to the farthest land on earth. The Lord your God will bring you back even from there. 
Deuteronomy30:5 He will bring you to the land that belonged to your people long ago. You will take it over. He'll make you better off than your people were. He'll increase your numbers more than he increased theirs. 
Deuteronomy30:6 The Lord your God will keep your hearts from being stubborn. He'll do the same thing for your children and their children. Then you will love him with all your heart and with all your soul. And you will live. 
Deuteronomy30:7 The Lord your God will put all of those curses on your enemies. They hated you and hunted you down. 
Deuteronomy30:8 You will obey the Lord again. You will follow all of his commands that I'm giving you today. 
Deuteronomy30:9 Then the Lord your God will give you great success in everything you do. You will have many children. Your livestock will have many little ones. Your crops will do very well. The Lord will take delight in you again. He'll give you success. That's what he did for your people long ago. 
Deuteronomy30:10 But you must obey the Lord your God. You must keep his commands and rules. They are written in this Scroll of the Law. You must turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
Deuteronomy30:11 What I'm commanding you today is not too hard for you. It isn't beyond your reach. 
Deuteronomy30:12 It isn't up in heaven. So you don't have to ask, ""Who will go up into heaven to get it? Who will announce it to us so we can obey it?""" 
Deuteronomy30:13 And it isn't beyond the ocean. So you don't have to ask, ""Who will go across the ocean to get it? Who will announce it to us so we can obey it?""" 
Deuteronomy30:14 No, the message isn't far away at all. In fact, it's really near you. It's in your mouth and in your heart so that you can obey it." 
Deuteronomy30:15 Today I'm giving you a choice. You can have life and success. Or you can have death and harm. 
Deuteronomy30:16 I'm commanding you today to love the Lord your God. I'm commanding you to live exactly as he wants you to live. You must obey his commands, rules and laws. Then you will live. Your numbers will increase. The Lord your God will bless you in the land you are entering to take as your own." 
Deuteronomy30:17 Don't let your hearts turn away from the Lord. Instead, obey him. Don't let yourselves be drawn away to other gods. And don't bow down to them and worship them." 
Deuteronomy30:18 If you do, I announce to you this very day that you will certainly be destroyed. You are about to go across the Jordan River and take over the land. But you won't live there very long." 
Deuteronomy30:19 I'm calling for heaven and earth to give witness against you this very day. I'm offering you the choice of life or death. You can choose either blessings or curses. But I want you to choose life. Then you and your children will live. 
Deuteronomy30:20 And you will love the Lord your God. You will obey him. You will remain true to him. The Lord is your very life. He will give you many years in the land. He took an oath. He promised to give that land to your fathers. He promised it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." 
Deuteronomy31:1 Here are the words I spoke to all of the people of Israel. 
Deuteronomy31:2 I said, ""I am now 120 years old. I'm not able to lead you anymore. The Lord has said to me, 'You will not go across the Jordan River.'" 
Deuteronomy31:3 The Lord your God himself will go across ahead of you. He'll destroy the nations that are there in order to make room for you. You will take over their land. Joshua will also go across ahead of you, just as the Lord said he would." 
Deuteronomy31:3 The Lord your God himself will go across ahead of you. He'll destroy the nations that are there in order to make room for you. You will take over their land. Joshua will also go across ahead of you, just as the Lord said he would." 
Deuteronomy31:4 The Lord will do to those nations what he did to Sihon and Og. He destroyed those Amorite kings along with their land. 
Deuteronomy31:5 The Lord will hand those nations over to you. Then you must do to them everything I've commanded you to do. 
Deuteronomy31:6 Be strong and brave. Don't be afraid of them. Don't be terrified because of them. The Lord your God will go with you. He will never leave you. He'll never desert you. 
Deuteronomy31:7 Then I sent for Joshua. I spoke to him in front of all of the people of Israel. I said, ""Be strong and brave. You must go with these people. They are going into the land the Lord promised with an oath to give to their fathers. You must divide it up among them. They will each receive their share." 
Deuteronomy31:7 Then I sent for Joshua. I spoke to him in front of all of the people of Israel. I said, ""Be strong and brave. You must go with these people. They are going into the land the Lord promised with an oath to give to their fathers. You must divide it up among them. They will each receive their share." 
Deuteronomy31:8 The Lord himself will go ahead of you. He will be with you. He will never leave you. He'll never desert you. So don't be afraid. Don't lose hope. 
Deuteronomy31:9 I wrote down that law. I gave it to the priests, who are sons of Levi. They carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord. I also gave the law to all of the elders of Israel." 
Deuteronomy31:10 Then I commanded them, ""You must read this law at the end of every seven years. Do it in the year when you forgive people what they owe. Read it during the Feast of Booths." 
Deuteronomy31:11 That's when all of the people of Israel come to appear in front of the Lord your God at the holy tent. It will be at the place he will choose. You must read this law to them. 
Deuteronomy31:12 Gather the people together. Gather the men, women and children. Also bring together the outsiders who are living in your towns. Then they can listen and learn to have respect for the Lord your God. And they'll be careful to obey all of the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy31:13 Their children must hear it read too. They don't know this law yet. They too must learn to have respect for the Lord your God. They must respect him as long as you live in the land. You are about to go across the Jordan River and take that land as your very own. 
Deuteronomy31:14 The Lord spoke to me. He said, ""The day when you will die is near. Have Joshua go to the Tent of Meeting. Join him there. That is where I will appoint him as the new leader."" So Joshua and I went to the Tent of Meeting." 
Deuteronomy31:14 The Lord spoke to me. He said, ""The day when you will die is near. Have Joshua go to the Tent of Meeting. Join him there. That is where I will appoint him as the new leader."" So Joshua and I went to the Tent of Meeting." 
Deuteronomy31:15 Then the Lord appeared at the tent in a pillar of cloud. It stood over the entrance to the tent. 
Deuteronomy31:16 The Lord spoke to me. He said, ""You are going to join the members of your family who have already died. The people will not be faithful to me. They will soon join themselves to the strange gods that are worshiped in the land they are entering. The people will desert me. They will break the covenant I made with them." 
Deuteronomy31:17 On that day I will become angry with them. I will desert them. I will turn my face away from them. And they will be destroyed. Many horrible troubles and hard times will come on them. On that day they will say, 'Trouble has come on us. Our God isn't with us!'" 
Deuteronomy31:18 I will certainly turn away from them on that day. I will do it because they did a very evil thing when they turned to other gods. 
Deuteronomy31:19 I want you to write down a song for yourselves. Teach it to the people of Israel. Have them sing it. It will be my witness against them. 
Deuteronomy31:20 I will bring them into a land that has plenty of milk and honey. I promised the land to their fathers. I took an oath when I promised it. In that land they will eat until they have had enough. They will get fat. When they do, they will turn to other gods and worship them. They will turn their backs on me. They will break my covenant." 
Deuteronomy31:21 Many horrible troubles and hard times will come on them. Then the song I am giving you will be a witness against them. That is because the song will not be forgotten by their children and their children's children. I know what they are likely to do. I know it even before I bring them into the land I promised them with an oath. 
Deuteronomy31:22 So that day I wrote the song down. And I taught it to the people of Israel. 
Deuteronomy31:23 The Lord gave a command to Joshua, the son of Nun. He said, ""Be strong and brave. You will bring the Israelites into the land I promised them with an oath. I myself will be with you.""" 
Deuteronomy31:23 The Lord gave a command to Joshua, the son of Nun. He said, ""Be strong and brave. You will bring the Israelites into the land I promised them with an oath. I myself will be with you.""" 
Deuteronomy31:24 I finished writing the words of that law in a scroll. I wrote them down from beginning to end. 
Deuteronomy31:25 Then I gave a command to the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord. I said," 
Deuteronomy31:26 Take this Scroll of the Law. Place it beside the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God. It will remain there as a witness against you. 
Deuteronomy31:27 I know how you refuse to obey the Lord. I know how stubborn you are. You have refused to obey him while I've been living among you. So you will certainly refuse to obey him after I'm dead! 
Deuteronomy31:28 Gather together all of the elders of your tribes and all of your officials. Bring them to me. Then I can speak these words to them. I can call for heaven and earth to give witness against them. 
Deuteronomy31:29 I know that after I'm dead you will certainly become very sinful. You will turn away from the path I've commanded you to take. In days to come, trouble will fall on you. That's because you will do what is evil in the sight of the Lord. You will make him very angry because of the statues of gods your hands have made.""" 
Deuteronomy31:30 I spoke the words of this song from beginning to end. The whole community of Israel heard them. Here is what I said. 
Deuteronomy32:1 Heavens, listen to me. Then I will speak. Earth, hear the words of my mouth." 
Deuteronomy32:2 Let my teaching fall like rain. Let my words come down like dew. Let them be like raindrops on new grass. Let them be like rain on tender plants. 
Deuteronomy32:3 I will make known the name of the Lord. Praise God! How great he is! 
Deuteronomy32:4 He is the Rock. His works are perfect. All of his ways are right. He is faithful. He doesn't do anything wrong. He is honest and fair. 
Deuteronomy32:5 Israel, you have sinned against him very much. It's too bad for you that you aren't his children anymore. You have become a twisted and evil nation." 
Deuteronomy32:6 Is that how you thank the Lord? You aren't wise. You are foolish. Remember, he's your Father. He's your Creator. He made you. He formed you." 
Deuteronomy32:7 Remember the days of old. Think about what the Lord did through those many years. Ask your father. He will tell you. Ask your elders. They'll explain it to you. 
Deuteronomy32:8 The Most High God gave the nations their lands. He divided up the human race. He set up borders for the nations. He did it based on the number of the sons of Israel. 
Deuteronomy32:9 The Lord's people are his share. Jacob is the nation he has received. 
Deuteronomy32:10 The Lord found Israel in a desert land. He found them in an empty and windy wasteland. He took care of them and kept them safe. He guarded them as he would guard his own eyes. 
Deuteronomy32:11 He was like an eagle that stirs up its nest. It hovers over its little ones. It spreads out its wings to catch them. It carries them on its feathers. 
Deuteronomy32:12 The Lord was the only one who led Israel. No other god was with them. 
Deuteronomy32:13 The Lord made them ride on the highest places in the land. He fed them what grew in the fields. He gave them the sweetest honey. He fed them olive oil from a rocky hillside. 
Deuteronomy32:14 He gave them butter and milk from the herds and flocks. He fed them the fattest lambs and goats. He gave them the best of Bashan's rams. He fed them the finest wheat. They drank the bubbling red juice of grapes. 
Deuteronomy32:15 When Israel grew fat, they became stubborn. When they were filled with food, they became fat and heavy. They left the God who made them. They turned away from the Rock who saved them." 
Deuteronomy32:16 They made him jealous by serving strange gods. They made him angry by worshiping statues of gods. He hated those gods. 
Deuteronomy32:17 The people sacrificed to demons, not to God. The demons were gods they hadn't known anything about. Those gods were new to them. Their people long ago didn't worship them." 
Deuteronomy32:18 But then they deserted the Rock. He was their Father. They forgot the God who created them. 
Deuteronomy32:19 When the Lord saw that, he turned away from them. His sons and daughters made him angry." 
Deuteronomy32:20 I will turn my face away from them,"" he said. ""I will see what will happen to them in the end. They are sinful people. They are unfaithful children." 
Deuteronomy32:21 They made me jealous by serving what is not even a god. They made me angry by worshiping worthless statues of gods. I will use people who are not a nation to make them jealous. I will use a nation that has no understanding to make them angry. 
Deuteronomy32:22 My anger has started a fire. It burns down to the kingdom of the dead. It will eat up the earth and its crops. It will set the base of the mountains on fire. 
Deuteronomy32:23 I will pile troubles on my people. I will shoot all of my arrows at them. 
Deuteronomy32:24 I will send them hunger. It will make them weak. I will send terrible sickness. I will send deadly plagues. I will send wild animals that will tear them apart. Snakes that glide through the dust will bite them. 
Deuteronomy32:25 In the streets their children will be killed with swords. Their homes will be filled with terror. Young men and women will die. Babies and old people will die. 
Deuteronomy32:26 I said I would scatter them. I said I would wipe them from human memory. 
Deuteronomy32:27 But I was afraid their enemies would make fun of that. I was afraid their attackers would not understand. I was sure they would say, 'We're the ones who've beaten them! The Lord isn't the one who did it.' """ 
Deuteronomy32:28 Israel is a nation that doesn't have any sense. They can't understand anything. 
Deuteronomy32:29 I wish they were wise. Then they would understand what's coming. They'd realize what would happen to them in the end. 
Deuteronomy32:30 How could one person chase a thousand? How could two make ten thousand run away? It couldn't happen unless their Rock had deserted them. It couldn't take place unless the Lord had given them up. 
Deuteronomy32:31 Their rock is not like our Rock. Even our enemies know that. 
Deuteronomy32:32 Their vine comes from the vines of Sodom. It comes from the vineyards of Gomorrah. Their grapes are filled with poison. Their bunches of grapes taste bitter. 
Deuteronomy32:33 Their wine is like the poison of snakes. It's like the deadly poison of cobras. 
Deuteronomy32:34 The Lord says, ""I have kept all of those terrible things stored away. I have kept them sealed up in my strongbox." 
Deuteronomy32:35 I punish people. I will pay them back. The time will come when their feet will slip. Their day of trouble is near. Very soon they will be destroyed. 
Deuteronomy32:36 The Lord will judge his people. He'll show tender love to those who serve him. He will know when their strength is gone. He'll see that no one at all is left. 
Deuteronomy32:37 He'll say, ""Where are their gods now? Where is the rock they went to for safety?" 
Deuteronomy32:38 Where are the gods who ate the fat of their sacrifices? Where are the gods who drank the wine of their drink offerings? Let them rise up to help you! Let them keep you safe! 
Deuteronomy32:39 Look! I am the One! There is no other God except me. I put some people to death. I bring others to life. I have wounded, and I will heal. No one can save you from my powerful hand." 
Deuteronomy32:40 I raise my hand to heaven. Here is the oath I take. You can be sure that I live forever. 
Deuteronomy32:41 And you can be just as sure that I will sharpen my flashing sword. My hand will hold it when I judge. I will get even with my enemies. I will pay back those who hate me. 
Deuteronomy32:42 I will make my arrows drip with blood. My sword will destroy people. It will kill some. It will even kill prisoners. It will cut off the heads of enemy leaders. 
Deuteronomy32:43 You nations, be full of joy. Be joyful together with God's people. The Lord will get even with his enemies. He will pay them back for killing those who serve him. He will wipe away the sin of his land and people." 
Deuteronomy32:44 I spoke all of the words of that song to the people. Joshua, the son of Nun, was with me." 
Deuteronomy32:44 I spoke all of the words of that song to the people. Joshua, the son of Nun, was with me." 
Deuteronomy32:45 I finished speaking all of those words to all of the people of Israel. 
Deuteronomy32:46 Then I said to the people, ""Think carefully about all of the words I have announced to you today. I want you to command your children to be careful to obey all of the words of this law." 
Deuteronomy32:47 They aren't just useless words for you. They are your very life. If you obey them, you will live in the land for a long time. It's the land you are going across the Jordan River to take as your own.""" 
Deuteronomy32:48 On that same day the Lord spoke to me. He said," 
Deuteronomy32:49 Go up into the Abarim Mountains. Go to Mount Nebo in Moab. It is across from Jericho. From there look out over Canaan. It is the land I am giving the people of Israel to take as their own. 
Deuteronomy32:50 You will die there on the mountain you have climbed. You will join the members of your family who have already died. In the same way, your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor. He joined the members of his family who had already died." 
Deuteronomy32:51 You and Aaron disobeyed me in front of the Israelites. It happened at the waters of Meribah Kadesh in the Desert of Zin. You did not honor me among the Israelites as the holy God. 
Deuteronomy32:52 So you will see the land. But you will see it only from far away. You will not enter the land I am giving to the people of Israel. 
Deuteronomy33:1 Here is the blessing that Moses, the man of God, gave to the people of Israel before he died." 
Deuteronomy33:2 He said, ""The Lord came from Mount Sinai. Like the rising sun, he shone on his people from Mount Seir. He shone on them from Mount Paran. He came with large numbers of angels. He came from his mountain slopes in the south." 
Deuteronomy33:3 Lord, I'm sure you love your people. All of the Israelites are in your hands. At your feet all of them bow down. And you teach them." 
Deuteronomy33:4 They learn the law I gave them. It belongs to the community of the people of Jacob. 
Deuteronomy33:5 The Lord was king over Israel when the leaders of the people came together. The tribes of Israel were also there. 
Deuteronomy33:6 Here's what Moses said about Reuben. Let Reuben live. Don't let him die. But let his people be few. 
Deuteronomy33:7 Here's what Moses said about Judah. Lord, listen to Judah cry out. Bring him to his people. By his own power he stands up for himself. Lord, help him fight against his enemies!""" 
Deuteronomy33:8 Here's what Moses said about Levi. Your Thummim and Urim belong to the man you favored. You put him to the test at Massah. You argued with him at the waters of Meribah. 
Deuteronomy33:9 Levi didn't show special favor to anyone. He did not spare his father and mother. He didn't excuse his relatives or his children. But he watched over your word. He guarded your covenant. 
Deuteronomy33:10 He teaches your rules to the people of Jacob. He teaches your law to Israel. He offers incense to you. He sacrifices whole burnt offerings on your altar. 
Deuteronomy33:11 Lord, bless all of his skills. Be pleased with everything he does. Destroy those who rise up against him. Strike down his enemies until they can't get up.""" 
Deuteronomy33:12 Here's what Moses said about Benjamin. Let the one the Lord loves rest safely in him. The Lord guards him all day long. The one the Lord loves rests in his arms. 
Deuteronomy33:13 Here's what Moses said about Joseph. May the Lord bless Joseph's land. May he bless it with dew from the highest heavens. May he bless it with water from the deepest oceans. 
Deuteronomy33:14 May he bless it with the best crops the sun can produce. May he bless it with the finest crops the moon can give. 
Deuteronomy33:15 May he bless it with the best products of the age-old mountains. May he bless it with the many crops of the ancient hills. 
Deuteronomy33:16 May he bless it with the best gifts that fill the earth. May he bless it with the favor of the One who spoke out of the burning bush. Let all of those blessings rest on the head of Joseph. Let them rest on the head of the one who is prince among his brothers. 
Deuteronomy33:17 His glory is like the glory of a bull that was born first to its mother. His horns are like the horns of a wild ox. He will destroy the nations with them. He'll wipe out the nations that are very far away. The ten thousands of men in Ephraim's army are like the bull and the ox. So are the thousands in the army of Manasseh. 
Deuteronomy33:18 Here's what Moses said about Zebulun and Issachar. Zebulun, be filled with joy when you go out. Issachar, be joyful in your tents." 
Deuteronomy33:19 You will call for all of the other Israelites to go to the mountain. There you will offer proper sacrifices. You will enjoy the many good things your ships bring you. You will enjoy treasures that are hidden in the sand. 
Deuteronomy33:20 Here's what Moses said about Gad. May the One who gives Gad more land be praised! Gad lives there like a lion that tears off arms and heads. 
Deuteronomy33:21 He chose the best land for his livestock. The leader's share was kept for him. The leaders of the people came together. Then Gad carried out the Lord's holy plan. He carried out the Lord's decisions for Israel. 
Deuteronomy33:22 Here's what Moses said about Dan. Dan is like a lion's cub that charges out of the land of Bashan. 
Deuteronomy33:23 Here's what Moses said about Naphtali. The Lord greatly favors Naphtali. The Lord fills him with his blessing. Naphtali's land will reach south to the Sea of Galilee. 
Deuteronomy33:24 Here's what Moses said about Asher. Asher is the most blessed of sons. Let his brothers show favor to him. Let him wash his feet with olive oil. 
Deuteronomy33:25 The bars of his gates will be made out of iron and bronze. His strength will last as long as he lives. 
Deuteronomy33:26 There is no one like the God of Israel. He rides in the heavens to help you. He rides on the clouds in his glory. 
Deuteronomy33:27 God lives forever! You can run to him for safety. His powerful arms are always there to carry you. He will drive out your enemies to make room for you. He'll say to you, 'Destroy them!'" 
Deuteronomy33:28 So Israel will live alone in safety. Jacob's spring of water is safe in a land that has grain and fresh wine. There the heavens drop their dew. 
Deuteronomy33:29 Israel, how blessed you are! Who is like you? The Lord has saved you. He keeps you safe. He helps you. He's like a glorious sword to you. Your enemies will bow down to you in fear. You will bring them under your control.""" 
Deuteronomy34:1 Moses climbed Mount Nebo. He went up from the flatlands of Moab to the highest slopes of Pisgah. It's across from Jericho. At Pisgah the Lord showed him the whole land from Gilead all the way to Dan. 
Deuteronomy34:2 Moses saw the whole land of Naphtali. He saw the territory of Ephraim and Manasseh. The Lord showed him the whole land of Judah all the way to the Mediterranean Sea. 
Deuteronomy34:3 Moses saw the Negev Desert. He saw the whole area from the Valley of Jericho all the way to Zoar. Jericho was also known as The City of Palm Trees. 
Deuteronomy34:4 Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ""This is the land I promised with an oath to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I told them, 'I will give this land to your children and their children.' Moses, I have let you see it with your own eyes. But you will not go across the Jordan River to enter it.""" 
Deuteronomy34:5 Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in Moab, just as the Lord had said." 
Deuteronomy34:6 The Lord buried the body of Moses in Moab. His grave is in the valley across from Beth Peor. But to this day no one knows where it is. 
Deuteronomy34:7 Moses was 120 years old when he died. But his eyes were not weak. He was still very strong. 
Deuteronomy34:8 The people of Israel sobbed over Moses on the flatlands of Moab for 30 days. They did it until their time for sobbing and crying was over. 
Deuteronomy34:9 Joshua, the son of Nun, was filled with wisdom. That's because Moses had placed his hands on him. So the Israelites listened to Joshua. They did what the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:9 Joshua, the son of Nun, was filled with wisdom. That's because Moses had placed his hands on him. So the Israelites listened to Joshua. They did what the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Deuteronomy34:10 Since then, Israel has never had a prophet like Moses. The Lord knew him face to face." 
Deuteronomy34:11 Moses did many miraculous signs and wonders. The Lord had sent him to do them in Egypt. Moses did them against Pharaoh, against all of his officials and against his whole land." 
Deuteronomy34:12 No one has ever had the mighty power Moses had. No one has ever done the wonderful acts he did in the sight of all of the people of Israel. 
Joshua1:1 Moses, the servant of the Lord, died. After that, the Lord spoke to Joshua, the son of Nun. Joshua was Moses' helper. The Lord said to Joshua," 
Joshua1:2 My servant Moses is dead. Now then, I want you and all of these people to get ready to go across the Jordan River. I want all of you to go into the land I am about to give to the people of Israel." 
Joshua1:3 I will give all of you every place you walk on, just as I promised Moses." 
Joshua1:4 Your territory will reach from the Negev Desert all the way to Lebanon. The great Euphrates River will be to the east. The Mediterranean Sea will be to the west. Your territory will include all of the Hittite country. 
Joshua1:5 Joshua, no one will be able to stand up against you as long as you live. I will be with you, just as I was with Moses. I will never leave you. I will never desert you." 
Joshua1:6 Be strong and brave. You will lead these people, and they will take the land as their very own. It is the land I promised with an oath to give their people long ago." 
Joshua1:7 Be strong and very brave. Make sure you obey the whole law my servant Moses gave you. Do not turn away from it to the right or the left. Then you will have success everywhere you go. 
Joshua1:8 Never stop reading this Scroll of the Law. Day and night you must think about what it says. Make sure you do everything that is written in it. Then things will go well with you. And you will have great success. 
Joshua1:9 Here is what I am commanding you to do. Be strong and brave. Do not be terrified. Do not lose hope. I am the Lord your God. I will be with you everywhere you go. 
Joshua1:10 So Joshua gave orders to the officers of the people. He said," 
Joshua1:11 Go through the camp. Tell the people, 'Get your supplies ready. Three days from now you will go across the Jordan River right here. You will go in and take over the land. The Lord your God is giving it to you as your very own.' """ 
Joshua1:12 Joshua also spoke to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. He said to them," 
Joshua1:13 Remember what Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you. He said, 'The Lord your God is giving you this land. It's a place where you can settle down and live in peace and rest.'" 
Joshua1:14 Your wives, children and livestock can stay here east of the Jordan River. Moses gave you this land. But all of your fighting men must get ready for battle. They must go across ahead of the other tribes. You must help them" 
Joshua1:15 until the Lord gives them rest. In the same way, he has already given you rest. You must help them until they also have taken over their land. It's the land the Lord your God is giving them. After that, you can come back here. Then you can live in your own land. It's the land that Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave you east of the Jordan River. It's toward the sunrise.""" 
Joshua1:16 Then the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh answered Joshua. They said, ""We'll do what you have commanded us to do. We'll go where you send us." 
Joshua1:17 We obeyed Moses completely. And we'll obey you just as completely. But may the Lord your God be with you, just as he was with Moses." 
Joshua1:18 Suppose people question your authority. And suppose they refuse to obey anything you command them to do. Then they will be put to death. Just be strong and brave! 
Joshua2:1 Joshua, the son of Nun, sent two spies from Shittim. He sent them in secret. He said to them, ""Go. Look the land over. Most of all, check out Jericho."" So they went to Jericho. They stayed at the house of a prostitute. Her name was Rahab." 
Joshua2:2 The king of Jericho was told, ""Look! Some of the people of Israel have come here tonight. They've come to check out the land.""" 
Joshua2:3 So the king sent a message to Rahab. It said, ""Bring out the men who came into your house. They've come to check out the whole land.""" 
Joshua2:4 But the woman had hidden the two men. She said, ""It's true that the men came here. But I didn't know where they had come from." 
Joshua2:5 They left at sunset, when it was time to close the city gate. I don't know which way they went. Go after them quickly. You might catch up with them.""" 
Joshua2:6 But in fact she had taken them up on the roof. There she had hidden them under some flax she had piled up. 
Joshua2:7 The king's men left to hunt down the spies. They took the road that leads to where the Jordan River can be crossed. As soon as they had gone out of the city, the gate was shut." 
Joshua2:8 Rahab went up on the roof before the spies settled down for the night. 
Joshua2:9 She said to them, ""I know that the Lord has given this land to you. We are very much afraid of you. Everyone who lives in this country is weak with fear because of you." 
Joshua2:10 We've heard how the Lord dried up the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt. We've heard what you did to Sihon and Og, the two Amorite kings. They ruled east of the Jordan River. You completely destroyed them." 
Joshua2:11 When we heard about it, our hearts melted away in fear. Because of you, we aren't brave anymore. The Lord your God is the God who rules over heaven above and earth below." 
Joshua2:12 Now then, please take an oath. Promise me in the name of the Lord that you will be kind to my family. I've been kind to you. Promise me" 
Joshua2:13 that you will spare the lives of my father and mother. Spare my brothers and sisters. Also spare everyone in their families. Promise that you won't put any of us to death. 
Joshua2:14 So the men made a promise to her. We'll give up our lives to save yours,"" they said. ""But don't tell anyone what we're doing. Then we'll be kind and faithful to you when the Lord gives us the land.""" 
Joshua2:15 The house Rahab lived in was part of the city wall. So she let the spies down by a rope through the window. 
Joshua2:16 She had said to them, ""Go up into the hills. The men who are chasing you won't be able to find you. Hide yourselves there for three days until they return. Then you can go on your way.""" 
Joshua2:17 The men said to her, ""You made us take an oath and make a promise. But we won't keep it" 
Joshua2:18 unless you do what we say. When we enter the land, you must tie this bright red rope in the window. Tie it in the window you let us down through. ""Bring your father and mother into your house. Also bring your brothers and everyone else in your family into your house." 
Joshua2:19 None of you must go out into the street. If you do, anything that happens to you will be your own fault. Don't hold us accountable. ""But if anyone hurts someone who is inside the house with you, it will be our fault. And you can hold us accountable." 
Joshua2:20 Don't tell anyone what we're doing. If you do, we won't have to keep the promise you asked us to make.""" 
Joshua2:21 I agree,"" Rahab replied. ""I'll do as you say."" So she sent them away, and they left. Then she tied the bright red rope in the window." 
Joshua2:22 When the spies left, they went up into the hills. They stayed there for three days. By that time the men who were chasing them had searched all along the road. They couldn't find them. So they returned." 
Joshua2:23 Then the two spies started back. They went down out of the hills. They went across the Jordan River. They came to Joshua, the son of Nun. They told him everything that had happened to them." 
Joshua2:24 They said, ""We're sure the Lord has given the whole land over to us. All of the people there are weak with fear because of us.""" 
Joshua3:1 Early one morning Joshua and all of the people of Israel started out from Shittim. They went down to the Jordan River. They camped there before they went across it. 
Joshua3:2 After three days the officers went all through the camp. 
Joshua3:3 They gave orders to the people. They said, ""Watch for the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God. The priests, who are Levites, will be carrying it. When you see it, you must move out from where you are and follow it." 
Joshua3:4 Then you will know which way to go. You have never gone this way before. But don't go near the ark. Stay about 1,000 yards away from it.""" 
Joshua3:5 Joshua spoke to the people. He said, ""Set yourselves apart to the Lord. Tomorrow he'll do amazing things among you.""" 
Joshua3:6 Joshua said to the priests, ""Go and get the ark of the covenant. Walk on ahead of the people."" So they went and got it. Then they walked on ahead of them." 
Joshua3:7 The Lord said to Joshua, ""Today I will begin to honor you in the eyes of all of the people of Israel. Then they will know that I am with you, just as I was with Moses." 
Joshua3:8 Speak to the priests who carry the ark of the covenant. Tell them, 'When you reach the edge of the Jordan River, go into the water and stand there.' """ 
Joshua3:9 Joshua spoke to the people of Israel. He said, ""Come here. Listen to what the Lord your God is saying." 
Joshua3:10 You will soon know that the living God is among you. You can be sure that he'll drive out the people who are now living in the land. He'll do it to make room for you. He'll drive out the Canaanites, Hittites, Hivites, Perizzites, Girgashites, Amorites and Jebusites." 
Joshua3:11 The ark will go into the Jordan River ahead of you. It's the ark of the covenant of the Lord of the whole earth. 
Joshua3:12 Choose 12 men from the tribes of Israel. Choose one from each tribe. 
Joshua3:13 The priests will carry the ark of the Lord. He's the Lord of the whole earth. As soon as the priests step into the Jordan, it will stop flowing. The water that's coming down the river will pile up in one place. That's how you will know that the living God is among you.""" 
Joshua3:14 So the people took their tents down. They prepared to go across the Jordan River. The priests who were carrying the ark of the covenant went ahead of them. 
Joshua3:15 The water of the Jordan was going over its banks. It always does that at the time the crops are being gathered. The priests came to the river. Their feet touched the water's edge. 
Joshua3:16 Right away the water that was coming down the river stopped flowing. It piled up far away at a town called Adam near Zarethan. The water that was flowing down to the Dead Sea was completely cut off. So the people went across the Jordan River opposite Jericho. 
Joshua3:17 The priests carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord. They stood firm on dry ground in the middle of the river. They stayed there until the whole nation of Israel had gone across on dry ground. 
Joshua4:1 After the whole nation had gone across the Jordan River, the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said," 
Joshua4:2 Choose 12 men from among the people. Choose one from each tribe. 
Joshua4:3 Tell them to get 12 stones from the middle of the river. They must pick them up from right where the priests stood. They must carry the stones over with all of you. And they must put them down at the place where you will stay tonight. 
Joshua4:4 So Joshua called together the 12 men he had appointed from among the people of Israel. There was one man from each tribe. 
Joshua4:5 He said to them, ""Go back to the middle of the Jordan River. Go to where the ark of the Lord your God is. Each one of you must pick up a stone. You must carry it on your shoulder. There will be as many stones as there are tribes in Israel." 
Joshua4:6 The stones will serve as a reminder to you. In days to come, your children will ask you, 'What do these stones mean?'" 
Joshua4:7 Tell them that the Lord cut off the flow of water in the Jordan River. Tell them its water stopped flowing when the ark of the covenant of the Lord went across. The stones will always remind the Israelites of what happened there. 
Joshua4:8 So the people of Israel did as Joshua commanded them. They took 12 stones from the middle of the Jordan River. There was one stone for each of the tribes of Israel. It was just as the Lord had told Joshua. The people carried the stones with them to their camp. There they put them down. 
Joshua4:9 Joshua piled up the 12 stones that had been in the middle of the river. They had been right where the priests who carried the ark of the covenant had stood. And they are still there to this very day. 
Joshua4:10 The priests who carried the ark remained standing in the middle of the Jordan River. They stayed there until the people had done everything the Lord had commanded Joshua. It was just as Moses had directed Joshua. All of the people went across quickly. 
Joshua4:11 As soon as they did, the ark of the Lord and the priests also went across to the other side. The people were watching them." 
Joshua4:12 Among the people who went across the river were men from the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. The men were armed. They went across ahead of the rest of the people of Israel. It was just as Moses had directed them. 
Joshua4:13 There were about 40,000 of them. All of them were ready for battle. They went across in front of the ark of the Lord. They went to the flatlands around Jericho. They were prepared to go to war." 
Joshua4:14 That day the Lord honored Joshua in the eyes of all of the people of Israel. They had respect for Joshua as long as he lived. They respected him just as much as they had respected Moses. 
Joshua4:15 Then the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said," 
Joshua4:16 Command the priests to come up out of the Jordan River. They are carrying the ark where the tablets of the covenant are kept. 
Joshua4:17 So Joshua gave a command to the priests. He said, ""Come up out of the Jordan River.""" 
Joshua4:18 Then the priests came up out of the river. They were carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord. As soon as they stepped out on dry ground, the water of the Jordan began to flow again. It went over its banks, just as it had done before." 
Joshua4:19 On the tenth day of the first month the people went up out of the Jordan River. They camped at Gilgal on the eastern border of Jericho. 
Joshua4:20 Joshua set up the 12 stones at Gilgal. They were the ones the people had taken out of the Jordan. 
Joshua4:21 Then he spoke to the people of Israel. He said, ""In days to come, your children after you will ask their parents, 'What do these stones mean?'" 
Joshua4:22 Their parents must tell them, 'Israel went across the Jordan River on dry ground.'" 
Joshua4:23 The Lord your God dried up the Jordan for you until you had gone across it. He did to the Jordan River the same thing he had done to the Red Sea. He dried up the Red Sea ahead of us until we had gone across it. 
Joshua4:24 He did it so that all of the nations on earth would know that he is powerful. He did it so that you would always have respect for the Lord your God. 
Joshua5:1 All of the Amorite and Canaanite kings heard how the Lord had dried up the Jordan River. They heard how he had dried it up for the people of Israel until they had gone across it. The Amorite kings lived west of the Jordan. The kings of Canaan lived along the Mediterranean Sea. When all of those kings heard what the Lord had done, their hearts melted away in fear. They weren't brave enough to face the people of Israel anymore." 
Joshua5:2 At that time the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said, ""Make knives out of hard stone. Circumcise the men of Israel.""" 
Joshua5:3 So Joshua made knives out of hard stone. Then he circumcised the men of Israel at Gibeath Haaraloth. 
Joshua5:4 Here is why Joshua circumcised them. All of the men who came out of Egypt had died. They died while they were going through the Sinai Desert after they had left Egypt. They were the men who were old enough to serve in the army. 
Joshua5:5 All of the men who came out had been circumcised. But all of the men who were born in the desert during the journey from Egypt hadn't been circumcised. 
Joshua5:6 The people of Israel had moved around in the desert for 40 years. By the end of that time all of the men who were old enough to serve in the army when they left Egypt had died. That's because they hadn't obeyed the Lord. The Lord had taken an oath. He had told them they wouldn't see the land. It's the land he had promised with an oath to their people to give us. It's a land that has plenty of milk and honey. 
Joshua5:7 Because they hadn't obeyed him, he raised up their sons to take their place. They were the ones Joshua circumcised. They hadn't been circumcised yet. That's because no one had circumcised them during the journey." 
Joshua5:8 So Joshua circumcised all of those men. The whole nation remained in the camp until the men were healed. 
Joshua5:9 Then the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said, ""Today I have taken away from you the shame of being laughed at by Egypt."" That's why the place where the men were circumcised has been called Gilgal to this very day." 
Joshua5:10 The people of Israel celebrated the Passover Feast. They observed it on the evening of the 14th day of the month. They did it while they were camped at Gilgal on the flatlands around Jericho. 
Joshua5:11 The day after the Passover, they ate some of the food that was grown in the land. On that very day they ate grain that had been cooked. They also ate bread that was made without yeast." 
Joshua5:12 The manna stopped coming down the day after they ate the food that was grown in the land. The people of Israel didn't have manna anymore. Instead, that year they ate food that was grown in Canaan." 
Joshua5:13 When Joshua was near Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing in front of him. The man was holding a sword. He was ready for battle. Joshua went up to him. He asked, ""Are you on our side? Or are you on the side of our enemies?""" 
Joshua5:14 I am not on either side,"" he replied. ""I have come as the commander of the Lord's army."" Then Joshua fell with his face to the ground. He asked the man, ""What message does my Lord have for me?""" 
Joshua5:15 The commander of the Lord's army replied, ""Take off your sandals. The place you are standing on is holy ground."" So Joshua took them off." 
Joshua6:1 The gates of Jericho were shut tight and guarded closely because of the people of Israel. No one went out. No one came in. 
Joshua6:2 Then the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said, ""I have handed Jericho over to you. I have also handed its king and its fighting men over to you." 
Joshua6:3 March around the city once with all of your fighting men. In fact, do it for six days." 
Joshua6:4 Have seven priests get trumpets that are made out of rams' horns. They must carry them in front of the ark. On the seventh day, march around the city seven times. Have the priests blow the trumpets as you march." 
Joshua6:5 You will hear them blow a long blast on the trumpets. When you do, have all of the men give a loud shout. The wall of the city will fall down. Then the whole army will go up to the city. Every man will go straight in.""" 
Joshua6:6 So Joshua, the son of Nun, called for the priests. He said to them, ""Go and get the ark of the covenant of the Lord. I want seven of you to carry trumpets in front of it.""" 
Joshua6:7 He gave an order to the men. He said, ""Move out! March around the city. Some of the fighting men must march in front of the ark of the Lord.""" 
Joshua6:8 When Joshua had spoken to the men, the seven priests went forward. They were carrying the seven trumpets as they marched in front of the ark of the Lord. They were blowing the trumpets. The ark of the Lord's covenant was carried behind the priests." 
Joshua6:9 Some of the fighting men marched ahead of the priests who were blowing the trumpets. The others followed behind the ark and guarded all of them. That whole time the priests were blowing the trumpets. 
Joshua6:10 But Joshua had given an order to the fighting men. He had said, ""Don't give a war cry. Don't raise your voices. Don't say a word until the day I tell you to shout. Then shout!""" 
Joshua6:11 So he had the ark of the Lord carried around the city once. Then the men returned to camp. They spent the night there. 
Joshua6:12 Joshua got up early the next morning. The priests went and got the ark of the Lord. 
Joshua6:13 The seven priests who were carrying the seven trumpets started out. They marched in front of the ark of the Lord. They blew the trumpets. Some of the fighting men marched ahead of them. The others followed behind the ark and guarded all of them. The priests kept blowing the trumpets. 
Joshua6:14 On the second day they marched around the city once. Then the men returned to camp. They did all of those things for six days. 
Joshua6:15 On the seventh day, they got up at sunrise. They marched around the city, just as they had done before. But on that day they went around it seven times." 
Joshua6:16 On the seventh time around, the priests blew a long blast on the trumpets. Then Joshua gave a command to the men. He said, ""Shout! The Lord has given you the city!" 
Joshua6:17 The city and everything that is in it must be set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. But the prostitute Rahab and all those who are with her in her house must be spared. That's because she hid the spies we sent. 
Joshua6:18 But keep away from the things that have been set apart to the Lord. If you take any of them, you will be destroyed. And you will bring trouble on the camp of Israel. You will cause it to be destroyed." 
Joshua6:19 All of the silver and gold is holy. It is set apart to the Lord. So are all of the articles that are made out of bronze and iron. All of those things must be added to the treasures that are kept in the Lord's house. 
Joshua6:20 The priests blew the trumpets. As soon as the fighting men heard the sound, they gave a loud shout. Then the wall fell down. Every man charged straight in. So they took the city." 
Joshua6:21 They set it apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. They destroyed every living thing in it with their swords. They killed men and women. They wiped out young people and old people. They destroyed cattle, sheep and donkeys." 
Joshua6:22 Then Joshua spoke to the two men who had gone in to check out the land. He said, ""Go into the prostitute's house. Bring her out. Also bring out everyone who is with her. That's what you promised her you would do when you took an oath.""" 
Joshua6:23 So the young men who had checked out the land went into Rahab's house. They brought her out along with her parents and brothers. They brought out everyone else who was there with her. They put them in a place that was outside the camp of Israel. 
Joshua6:24 Then they burned the whole city and everything that was in it. But they added the silver and gold to the treasures that were kept in the Lord's house. They also put there the articles that were made out of bronze and iron. 
Joshua6:25 But Joshua spared the prostitute Rahab. He spared her family. He also spared everyone else who was in the house with her. He did it because she hid the spies he had sent to Jericho. Rahab lives among the people of Israel to this very day. 
Joshua6:26 At that time Joshua took an oath and called down a curse. He said, ""May the man who tries to rebuild this city of Jericho be under the Lord's curse. ""If he lays its foundations, it will cost the life of his oldest son. If he sets up its gates, it will cost the life of his youngest son.""" 
Joshua6:27 So the Lord was with Joshua. And Joshua became famous everywhere in the land. 
Joshua7:1 But the people of Israel weren't faithful to the Lord. They didn't do what they were told to do with the things that had been set apart to him in a special way to be destroyed. Achan had taken some of those things. So the Lord's anger burned against Israel. Achan was the son of Carmi. Carmi was the son of Zimri. And Zimri was the son of Zerah. They were from the tribe of Judah. 
Joshua7:2 Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai. Ai is near Beth Aven east of Bethel. Joshua told the men, ""Go up and check out the area around Ai."" So the men went up and checked it out." 
Joshua7:3 Then they returned to Joshua. They said, ""The whole army doesn't have to go up and attack Ai. Send only two or three thousand men. They can take the city. Don't make the whole army go up there. Ai only has a few men.""" 
Joshua7:4 So only about 3,000 men went up. But the men of Ai drove them away." 
Joshua7:5 They chased the men of Israel from the city gate all the way to Shebarim. They killed about 36 of them on the way down. So the hearts of the people of Israel melted away in fear. 
Joshua7:6 Joshua and the elders of Israel became sad. Joshua tore his clothes. He fell in front of the ark of the Lord with his face to the ground. He remained there until evening. The elders did the same thing. They also sprinkled dust on their heads. 
Joshua7:7 Joshua said, ""Lord and King, why did you ever bring these people across the Jordan River? Did you want to hand us over to the Amorites? Did you want them to destroy us? I wish we had been content to stay on the other side of the Jordan!" 
Joshua7:8 Lord, our enemies have driven us away. What can I say?" 
Joshua7:9 The people of Canaan will hear about it. So will everyone else in the country. They will surround us. They'll wipe our name from the face of the earth. Then what will you do when people don't honor your great name anymore? 
Joshua7:10 The Lord said to Joshua, ""Get up! What are you doing down there on your face?" 
Joshua7:11 Israel has sinned. I made a covenant with them. I commanded them to keep it. But they have broken it. They have taken some of the things that had been set apart to me in a special way to be destroyed. They have stolen. They have lied. They have taken the things they stole and have put them with their own things. 
Joshua7:12 That is why the men of Israel can't stand up against their enemies. They turn their backs and run. It is because I have decided to let them be destroyed. You must destroy the things you took that had been set apart to me. If you do not, I will not be with you anymore." 
Joshua7:13 Go. Set the people apart. Tell them, 'Make yourselves pure. Get ready for tomorrow. Here is what the Lord, the God of Israel, wants you to do. He says, ""People of Israel, you have kept some of the things that had been set apart to me in a special way to be destroyed. You can't stand up against your enemies until you get rid of those things.""" 
Joshua7:14  'In the morning, come forward tribe by tribe. The tribe the Lord chooses will come forward group by group. The group the Lord chooses will come forward family by family. And the men in the family the Lord chooses will come forward one by one." 
Joshua7:15  'Anyone who is caught with the things that had been set apart to the Lord will be destroyed by fire. Everything that belongs to that person will also be destroyed. He has broken the Lord's covenant. He has done a very terrible thing in Israel!' 
Joshua7:16 Early the next morning Joshua had Israel come forward by tribes. The tribe of Judah was picked. 
Joshua7:17 The groups of Judah came forward. Joshua picked the group of Zerah. He had the group of Zerah come forward by families. The family of Zimri was picked. 
Joshua7:18 He had their men come forward one by one. Achan was picked. Achan was the son of Carmi. Carmi was the son of Zimri. And Zimri was the son of Zerah. Zerah was from the tribe of Judah. 
Joshua7:19 Joshua spoke to Achan. He said, ""My son, the Lord is the God of Israel. So give him glory by telling the truth! Give him praise by admitting you have sinned! Tell me what you have done. Don't hide it from me.""" 
Joshua7:20 Achan replied, ""It's true! I've sinned against the Lord, the God of Israel. Here is what I've done." 
Joshua7:21 I saw a beautiful robe from Babylonia among the things we had taken. I saw five pounds of silver. And I saw a gold bar that weighed 20 ounces. I wanted them, so I took them. I hid them in the ground inside my tent. The silver is on the bottom.""" 
Joshua7:22 So Joshua sent some messengers. They ran to Achan's tent. And there was everything, hidden in his tent! The silver was on the bottom." 
Joshua7:23 They brought the things out of the tent. They took them to Joshua and all of the people of Israel. And they spread them out in the sight of the Lord. 
Joshua7:24 Then Joshua and all of the people grabbed hold of Achan, the son of Zerah. They took the silver, the robe and the gold bar. They took Achan's sons and daughters. They took his cattle, donkeys and sheep. They also took his tent and everything he had. They took all of it to the Valley of Achor." 
Joshua7:25 Joshua said to Achan, ""Why have you brought this trouble on us? The Lord will bring trouble on you today."" Then all of the people killed Achan by throwing stones at him. They also killed the rest of his family with stones. They burned all of them up." 
Joshua7:26 They placed a large pile of rocks on top of Achan's body. The place has been called the Valley of Achor ever since. That pile is still there to this very day. After the people killed Achan, the Lord turned his burning anger away from them." 
Joshua8:1 Then the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said, ""Do not be afraid. Do not lose hope. Go up and attack Ai. Take the whole army with you. I have handed the king of Ai over to you. I have given you his people, his city and his land." 
Joshua8:2 Remember what you did to Jericho and its king. You will do the same thing to Ai and its king. But this time you can keep for yourselves the livestock and everything else you take from them. Have some of your fighting men hide behind the city and take them by surprise. 
Joshua8:3 So Joshua and the whole army moved out to attack Ai. He chose 30,000 of his best fighting men. He sent them out at night." 
Joshua8:4 He gave them orders. He said, ""Listen carefully to what I'm saying. You must hide behind the city. Don't go very far away from it. All of you must be ready to attack it." 
Joshua8:5 I and all of the men who are with me will go up to the city. The men of Ai will come out to fight against us, just as they did before. Then we'll run away from them." 
Joshua8:6 They'll chase us until we've drawn them away from the city. They'll say, 'They are running away from us, just as they did before.' ""When we run away from them," 
Joshua8:7 come out of your hiding place. Take over the city. The Lord your God will hand it over to you. 
Joshua8:8 When you have taken it, set it on fire. Do what the Lord has commanded. Make sure you obey my orders.""" 
Joshua8:9 Then Joshua sent them away. They went to the place where they had planned to hide. They hid in a place west of Ai. It was between Bethel and Ai. But Joshua spent that night with his men. 
Joshua8:10 Early the next morning Joshua brought his men together. He and the leaders of Israel marched in front of them to Ai. 
Joshua8:11 The whole army that was with him marched up to the city. They stopped in front of it. They set up camp north of Ai. There was a valley between them and the city. 
Joshua8:12 Joshua had chosen about 5,000 soldiers. He had ordered them to hide in a place west of Ai. It was between Bethel and Ai." 
Joshua8:13 The men took up their battle positions. All of the men who were in the camp that was north of the city took up their positions. So did those who were supposed to hide west of the city. That night Joshua went into the valley. 
Joshua8:14 The king of Ai saw what the army of Israel was doing. So he and all of his men hurried out of the city early in the morning. They marched out to meet Israel in battle. They went to a place that looked out over the Arabah Valley. The king didn't know that some of Israel's fighting men were hiding behind the city. 
Joshua8:15 Joshua and all of his men let the men of Ai drive them back. The men of Israel ran away toward the desert. 
Joshua8:16 All of the men of Ai were called out to chase them. They chased Joshua. So they were drawn away from the city. 
Joshua8:17 Not even one man remained in Ai or Bethel. All of them went out to chase Israel. When they did, they left the city wide open." 
Joshua8:18 Then the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said, ""Point the javelin that is in your hand at Ai. I will hand the city over to you."" So Joshua pointed his javelin at Ai." 
Joshua8:19 As soon as he did, the men who were hiding behind the city got up quickly. They came out of their hiding places and rushed forward. They entered the city and captured it. They quickly set it on fire." 
Joshua8:20 The men of Ai looked back. They saw smoke rising up from the city into the sky. But they couldn't escape in any direction. The men of Israel had been running away toward the desert. But now they turned around to face those who were chasing them. 
Joshua8:21 Joshua and all of his men saw that the men who had been hiding behind the city had captured it. They also saw the smoke that was going up from it. So they turned around and attacked the men of Ai. 
Joshua8:22 The men who had set Ai on fire came out of the city. They also fought against the men of Ai. So the men of Ai were caught in the middle. The army of Israel was on both sides of them. Israel struck them down. They didn't let anyone remain alive or get away. 
Joshua8:23 But they took the king of Ai alive. They brought him to Joshua. 
Joshua8:24 Israel finished killing all of the men of Ai. They destroyed them in the fields and in the desert where they had chased them. They struck every one of them down with their swords. Then all of the men of Israel returned to Ai. And they killed those who were left in it. 
Joshua8:25 The total number of men and women they killed that day was 12,000. They put to death all of the people of Ai." 
Joshua8:26 Joshua kept the javelin that was in his hand pointed at Ai. He didn't lower his hand until he and his men had totally destroyed everyone who lived there. 
Joshua8:27 But this time Israel kept for themselves the livestock and everything else they had taken from the city. The Lord had directed Joshua to let them do it. 
Joshua8:28 So Joshua burned Ai down. He tore it down so it could never be built again. It has been deserted to this very day. 
Joshua8:29 Joshua killed the king of Ai. He stuck a pole through the body. Then he set it up where people could see it. He left it there until evening. At sunset, Joshua ordered his men to remove the body from the pole. He told them to throw the body down at the entrance of the city gate. They put a large pile of rocks over the body. That pile is still there to this very day." 
Joshua8:30 Joshua built an altar to honor the Lord, the God of Israel. He built it on Mount Ebal." 
Joshua8:31 Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded the people of Israel to do that. Joshua built the altar in keeping with what is written in the Scroll of the Law of Moses. He built an altar out of stones that iron tools had never touched. Then the people offered on the altar burnt offerings to the Lord. They also sacrificed friendship offerings on it." 
Joshua8:32 Joshua copied the written law of Moses on stones. He did it while all of the people of Israel were watching. 
Joshua8:33 They were standing on both sides of the ark of the covenant of the Lord. All of the people of Israel, including outsiders and citizens, were there. Israel's elders, officials and judges were also there. All of them faced the priests, who were Levites. They were carrying the ark. Half of the people stood in front of Mount Gerizim. The other half stood in front of Mount Ebal. Moses, the servant of the Lord, had earlier told them to do it. It was when he had given directions to bless the people of Israel." 
Joshua8:34 Then Joshua read all of the words of the law out loud. He read the blessings and the curses. He read them in keeping with what is written in the Scroll of the Law. 
Joshua8:35 Joshua read every word Moses had commanded. He read them to the whole community of Israel. That included the women and children. It also included the outsiders who were living among them. 
Joshua9:1 All of the kings who ruled west of the Jordan River heard about the battles Israel had won. That included the kings who ruled in the central hill country and the western hills. It also included those who ruled along the entire coast of the Mediterranean Sea all the way to Lebanon. They were the kings of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Joshua9:2 They brought their armies together to fight against Joshua and Israel. 
Joshua9:3 The people of Gibeon heard about what Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai. 
Joshua9:4 So they decided to trick the people of Israel. They packed supplies as if they were going on a long trip. They loaded their donkeys with old sacks and old wineskins. The wineskins were cracked but had been mended. 
Joshua9:5 The men put worn-out sandals on their feet. The sandals had been patched. The men also wore old clothes. All of the bread they took along was dry and moldy. 
Joshua9:6 They went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal. They spoke to him and the men of Israel. They said, ""We've come from a country that's far away. Make a peace treaty with us.""" 
Joshua9:7 The men of Israel spoke to the Hivites. They said, ""But suppose you live close to us. If you do, we can't make a peace treaty with you.""" 
Joshua9:8 We'll serve you,"" they said to Joshua. But Joshua asked, ""Who are you? Where do you come from?""" 
Joshua9:9 They answered, ""We've come from a country that's very far away. We've come because the Lord your God is famous. We've heard reports about him. We've heard about everything he did in Egypt." 
Joshua9:10 We've heard about everything he did to Sihon and Og. They were the two kings of the Amorites. They ruled east of the Jordan River. Sihon was the king of Heshbon. Og was the king of Bashan. He ruled in Ashtaroth. 
Joshua9:11 Our elders and all of the people who are living in our country spoke to us. They said, 'Take supplies for your trip. Go and meet the people of Israel. Say to them, ""We'll serve you. Make a peace treaty with us."" '" 
Joshua9:12 Look at our bread. It was warm when we packed it. We packed it at home on the day we left to come and see you. But look at how dry and moldy it is now. 
Joshua9:13 When we filled these wineskins, they were new. But look at how cracked they are now. And our clothes and sandals are worn out because we've traveled so far.""" 
Joshua9:14 The men of Israel looked over the supplies those men had brought. But they didn't ask the Lord what they should do. 
Joshua9:15 Joshua made a peace treaty with the men who had come. He agreed to let them live. The leaders of the community took an oath to show that they agreed with the treaty. 
Joshua9:16 The people of Israel made a peace treaty with the people of Gibeon. But three days later they heard that the people of Gibeon lived close to them. 
Joshua9:17 So the people of Israel started out to go to the cities of those men. On the third day they came to Gibeon, Kephirah, Beeroth and Kiriath Jearim." 
Joshua9:18 But they didn't attack those cities. That's because the leaders of the community had taken an oath and made a peace treaty with them. They had taken the oath in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. The whole community told the leaders they weren't happy with them." 
Joshua9:19 But all of the leaders answered, ""We've made a peace treaty with them. We've taken an oath in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. So we can't touch them now." 
Joshua9:20 But here is what we'll do to them. We'll let them live. Then the Lord's anger won't fall on us because we didn't keep the oath we took. 
Joshua9:21 They continued, ""Let them live. But let them cut wood and carry water for the whole community."" So the leaders kept their promise to them." 
Joshua9:22 Joshua sent for the people of Gibeon. He said, ""Why did you trick us? You said, 'We live far away from you.' But in fact you live close to us." 
Joshua9:23 So now you are under a curse. You will always serve us. You will always cut wood and carry water for the house of my God. 
Joshua9:24 They answered Joshua, ""We were clearly told what the Lord your God had commanded his servant Moses to do. He commanded him to give you the whole land. He also ordered him to wipe out all of its people to make room for you. So we were afraid you would kill us. That's why we tricked you." 
Joshua9:25 We are now in your hands. Do to us what you think is good and right. 
Joshua9:26 So Joshua saved the people of Gibeon. He didn't let the people of Israel kill them. 
Joshua9:27 That day he made them cut wood and carry water. They had to serve the community of Israel. They also had to serve at the altar of the Lord at the place where he would choose to put it. And they still serve the people of Israel to this very day. 
Joshua10:1 Adoni-Zedek was the king of Jerusalem. He heard that Joshua had taken Ai. He found out that the city had been set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. He heard that Joshua had done to Ai and its king the same thing he had done to Jericho and its king. Adoni-Zedek heard that the people of Gibeon had made a peace treaty with Israel. He also found out that they were living among the people of Israel. 
Joshua10:2 The things he heard alarmed him and his people very much. That's because Gibeon was an important city. It was like one of the royal cities. It was larger than Ai. All of its men were good soldiers. 
Joshua10:3 So Adoni-Zedek, the king of Jerusalem, made an appeal to Hoham, the king of Hebron. He appealed to Piram, the king of Jarmuth. He appealed to Japhia, the king of Lachish. He also made an appeal to Debir, the king of Eglon." 
Joshua10:4 Come up and help me attack Gibeon,"" he said. ""Its people have made peace with Joshua and the people of Israel.""" 
Joshua10:5 The kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish and Eglon gathered their armies together. Those five Amorite kings moved all of their troops into position to fight against Gibeon. Then they attacked it." 
Joshua10:6 Joshua was in the camp at Gilgal. The people of Gibeon sent a message to him there. It said, ""Don't desert us. We serve you. Come up to us quickly! Save us! Help us! All of the Amorite kings from the central hill country have gathered their armies together to fight against us.""" 
Joshua10:7 So Joshua marched up from Gilgal with his whole army. The army included all of his best fighting men. 
Joshua10:8 The Lord said to Joshua, ""Do not be afraid of them. I have handed them over to you. Not one of them will be able to fight against you and win.""" 
Joshua10:9 Joshua marched all night from Gilgal. He took the Amorite armies by surprise. 
Joshua10:10 The Lord threw them into a panic as Israel marched toward them. Then Israel won a great battle over them at Gibeon. They chased them along the road that goes up to Beth Horon. They struck them down all the way to Azekah and Makkedah. 
Joshua10:11 The Amorites ran away as Israel marched toward them. They ran down the road from Beth Horon to Azekah. As they ran, the Lord threw large hailstones down on them from the sky. The hailstones killed more of them than the swords of the men of Israel did." 
Joshua10:12 So the Lord gave the Amorites over to Israel. On that day Joshua spoke to the Lord while the people of Israel were listening. He said, ""Sun, stand still over Gibeon. Moon, stand still over the Valley of Aijalon.""" 
Joshua10:13 So the sun stood still. The moon stopped. They didn't move again until the nation won the battle over its enemies. You can read about it in the Book of Jashar. The sun stopped in the middle of the sky. It didn't go down for about a full day. 
Joshua10:14 There has never been a day like it before or since. It was a day when the Lord listened to a mere man. You can be sure that the Lord was fighting for Israel! 
Joshua10:15 Joshua and his whole army returned to the camp at Gilgal. 
Joshua10:16 The five Amorite kings had run away. They had hidden in the cave at Makkedah. 
Joshua10:17 Joshua was told that the five kings had been found. He was also told that they were hiding in the cave at Makkedah. 
Joshua10:18 He said, ""Roll some large rocks up to the opening of the cave. Put some men there to guard it." 
Joshua10:19 But keep on going! Chase your enemies. Attack them from behind. Don't let them get back to their cities. The Lord your God has handed them over to you. 
Joshua10:20 So Joshua and the men of Israel completely destroyed them. They killed almost every one of them. But a few escaped. They went back to their cities that had high walls around them. 
Joshua10:21 Then Israel's whole army returned safely to Joshua. He was in the camp at Makkedah. No one in the land dared to say anything against the people of Israel. 
Joshua10:22 Joshua said, ""Open up the cave. Bring those five kings out to me.""" 
Joshua10:23 So Joshua's men brought the five kings out of the cave. They were the kings of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish and Eglon." 
Joshua10:24 The men brought them to Joshua. Then he sent for all of the men of Israel. He spoke to the army commanders who had come with him. He said, ""Come here. Put your feet on the necks of these kings."" So they came forward and placed their feet on the necks of the kings." 
Joshua10:25 Joshua said to them, ""Don't be afraid. Don't lose hope. Be strong and brave. This is what the Lord will do to all of the enemies you are going to fight.""" 
Joshua10:26 Joshua struck the five kings down and killed them. He stuck a pole through each of their bodies. Then he set the poles up where people could see the bodies. He left them there until evening. 
Joshua10:27 At sunset Joshua ordered his men to take the bodies down. So they took them down and threw them into the cave where the kings had been hiding. They placed large rocks at the opening of the cave. And the rocks are still there to this very day. 
Joshua10:28 That day Joshua took Makkedah. He killed its people and their king with the sword. He totally destroyed everyone in it. He didn't leave anyone alive. He did to the king of Makkedah the same thing he had done to the king of Jericho. 
Joshua10:29 Joshua moved on from Makkedah to Libnah. Israel's whole army went with him. They attacked Libnah. 
Joshua10:30 The Lord also handed that city and its king over to Israel. Joshua destroyed the city. He and his men killed everyone in it with their swords. He didn't leave anyone alive there. He did to its king the same thing he had done to the king of Jericho. 
Joshua10:31 Joshua moved on from Libnah to Lachish. Israel's whole army went with him. The men took up their battle positions. Then Joshua attacked Lachish. 
Joshua10:32 The Lord handed it over to Israel. Joshua took the city on the second day of the battle. He destroyed the city. He and his men killed everyone in it with their swords. He had done the same thing to Libnah. 
Joshua10:33 While all of that was happening, Horam had come up to help Lachish. He was the king of Gezer. But Joshua won the battle over him and his army. No one was left alive." 
Joshua10:34 Joshua moved on from Lachish to Eglon. Israel's whole army went with him. They took up their battle positions. Then they attacked Eglon. 
Joshua10:35 They captured it that same day. They totally destroyed everyone in it with their swords. They had done the same thing to Lachish. 
Joshua10:36 Joshua went up from Eglon to Hebron. Israel's whole army went with him. Then they attacked Hebron. 
Joshua10:37 They took the city. They destroyed it and its villages. They killed all of its people and their king with their swords. They didn't leave anyone alive. They totally destroyed the city and everyone in it. They had done the same thing at Eglon. 
Joshua10:38 Joshua turned back and attacked Debir. Israel's whole army went with him. 
Joshua10:39 They took the city, its king and its villages. They totally destroyed everyone in Debir with their swords. They didn't leave anyone alive. They did to Debir and its king the same thing they had done to Libnah and its king. They had also done the same thing to Hebron." 
Joshua10:40 So Joshua brought the whole area under his control. That included the central hill country and the Negev Desert. It included the western hills and the mountain slopes. It also included all of the kings in that whole area. Joshua didn't leave anyone alive. He totally destroyed everyone who breathed. He did just as the Lord, the God of Israel, had commanded." 
Joshua10:41 Joshua brought everyone from Kadesh Barnea to Gaza under his control. He also brought everyone from the whole area of Goshen to Gibeon under his control. 
Joshua10:42 He won the battle over all of those kings and their lands. He did it in one campaign. That's because the Lord, the God of Israel, fought for Israel." 
Joshua10:43 Then Joshua returned to the camp at Gilgal. Israel's whole army went with him. 
Joshua11:1 Jabin was the king of Hazor. He heard about the battles Israel had won. So he sent a message to Jobab. Jobab was the king of Madon. Jabin sent the same message to the kings of Shimron and Acshaph. 
Joshua11:1 Jabin was the king of Hazor. He heard about the battles Israel had won. So he sent a message to Jobab. Jobab was the king of Madon. Jabin sent the same message to the kings of Shimron and Acshaph. 
Joshua11:2 He also sent it to a lot of other kings. Some ruled in the mountains in the north. Some ruled in the Arabah Valley south of Kinnereth. Others ruled in the western hills. Still others ruled in Naphoth Dor in the west. 
Joshua11:3 Jabin sent the same message to the people of east Canaan and west Canaan. He sent it to the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites and Jebusites. They lived in the central hill country. He also sent it to the Hivites who lived below Mount Hermon in the area of Mizpah." 
Joshua11:4 Those kings marched out with all of their troops. They had a large number of horses and chariots. It was a huge army. The fighting men were as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. 
Joshua11:5 All of those kings gathered their armies together to fight against Israel. They set up camp together at the Waters of Merom. 
Joshua11:6 The Lord spoke to Joshua. He said, ""Do not be afraid of them. By this time tomorrow I will hand all of them over to Israel. All of them will be killed. You must cut the legs of their horses. You must burn up their chariots.""" 
Joshua11:7 So Joshua and his whole army attacked them suddenly. They fought against them at the Waters of Merom. 
Joshua11:8 The Lord handed them over to Israel. Israel won the battle over them. They hunted them down all the way to Greater Sidon. They chased them to Misrephoth Maim. They chased them to the Valley of Mizpah in the east. Not one of them was left alive. 
Joshua11:9 Joshua did to them what the Lord had directed him to do. He cut the legs of their horses. He burned up their chariots. 
Joshua11:10 At that time Joshua turned back. He captured Hazor. He killed its king with his sword. Hazor was the most important city in all of those kingdoms. 
Joshua11:11 The army of Israel killed everyone in Hazor with their swords. Its people had been set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. Israel's army didn't spare anything that breathed. Then Joshua burned up the city. 
Joshua11:12 Joshua took all of those royal cities and their kings. He and his men killed everyone in those cities with their swords. He totally destroyed them. He did just as Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded." 
Joshua11:13 Many cities were built on top of earlier cities that had been destroyed. Israel didn't burn up any of those except Hazor. Joshua burned it up. 
Joshua11:14 The army of Israel kept for themselves the livestock and everything else they took from those cities. But they killed all of the people with their swords. They completely destroyed them. They didn't spare anyone who breathed. 
Joshua11:15 The Lord had commanded his servant Moses to do all of those things. Moses had passed that command on to Joshua. And Joshua carried it out. He did everything the Lord had commanded Moses. 
Joshua11:16 So Joshua took the whole land. He took the central hill country and the whole Negev Desert. He took the whole area of Goshen. He took the western hills. He took the Arabah Valley. He took the mountains of Israel and the hills around them. 
Joshua11:17 He took the area that begins at Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir. The area ends at Baal Gad in the Valley of Lebanon below Mount Hermon. Joshua captured the kings who ruled over that whole land. He struck them down and killed them." 
Joshua11:18 He fought battles against all of those kings for a long time. 
Joshua11:19 Only the Hivites who lived in Gibeon made a peace treaty with the people of Israel. No other city made a treaty with them. So Israel captured all of those cities in battle. 
Joshua11:20 The Lord himself made the hearts of their people stubborn. He made them go to war against Israel so he could totally destroy them. He wanted to wipe them out. He didn't show them any mercy. The Lord had commanded Moses to destroy the people of Canaan. 
Joshua11:21 At that time Joshua went and destroyed the Anakites. They lived all through the hill country of Judah and Israel. They lived in Hebron, Debir and Anab. Joshua totally destroyed the Anakites and their towns." 
Joshua11:22 There weren't any Anakites left alive in Israel's territory. But a few were left alive in Gaza, Gath and Ashdod." 
Joshua11:23 So Joshua took the whole land, just as the Lord had directed Moses. Joshua gave the land to Israel as their very own. He divided it up and gave each tribe its share. Then the land had peace and rest." 
Joshua12:1 The people of Israel took over the territory east of the Jordan River. The land they took reached from the Arnon River valley to Mount Hermon. It included the whole east side of the Arabah Valley. Israel won the battle over the kings of that whole territory. Here are the lands Israel took from the kings they won the battle over. 
Joshua12:2 They took the land of Sihon. He was the king of the Amorites. He ruled in Heshbon. The land he ruled over begins at Aroer. Aroer is on the rim of the Arnon River valley. He ruled from the middle of the valley to the Jabbok River. The Jabbok is the border of Ammon. Sihon's territory included half of Gilead. 
Joshua12:3 He also ruled over the east side of the Arabah Valley. That land begins at the Sea of Galilee. It goes to the Dead Sea and over to Beth Jeshimoth. Then it goes south, below the slopes of Pisgah." 
Joshua12:4 Israel also took the territory of Og. He was the king of Bashan. He was one of the last of the Rephaites. He ruled in Ashtaroth and Edrei. 
Joshua12:5 He ruled over Mount Hermon, Salecah and the whole land of Bashan. He ruled all the way to the border of Geshur and Maacah. He ruled over half of Gilead. His land reached the border of Sihon. Sihon was the king of Heshbon." 
Joshua12:6 Moses was the servant of the Lord. Moses and the people of Israel won the battle over those two kings. He gave their land to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. He gave it to them as their share. 
Joshua12:7 Joshua and the people of Israel won the battle over the kings who ruled west of the Jordan River. The lands of the kings reached from Baal Gad in the Valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir. Joshua gave their lands to the tribes of Israel as their very own. He divided them up and gave each tribe its share." 
Joshua12:8 Those lands included the central hill country, the western hills and the Arabah Valley. They also included the mountain slopes, the Desert of Judah and the Negev Desert. Those lands belonged to the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites. Here are the kings Israel won the battle over." 
Joshua12:9 the king of Jericho one the king of Ai, which is near Bethel one" 
Joshua12:10 the king of Jerusalem one the king of Hebron one 
Joshua12:11 the king of Jarmuth one the king of Lachish one 
Joshua12:12 the king of Eglon one the king of Gezer one 
Joshua12:13 the king of Debir one the king of Geder one 
Joshua12:14 the king of Hormah one the king of Arad one 
Joshua12:15 the king of Libnah one the king of Adullam one 
Joshua12:16 the king of Makkedah one the king of Bethel one 
Joshua12:17 the king of Tappuah one the king of Hepher one 
Joshua12:18 the king of Aphek one the king of Lasharon one 
Joshua12:19 the king of Madon one the king of Hazor one 
Joshua12:20 the king of Shimron Meron one the king of Acshaph one 
Joshua12:21 the king of Taanach one the king of Megiddo one 
Joshua12:22 the king of Kedesh one the king of Jokneam in Carmel one 
Joshua12:23 the king of Dor in Naphoth Dor one the king of Goyim in Gilgal one 
Joshua12:24 the king of Tirzah oneThe total number of kings was 31. 
Joshua13:1 Joshua was now very old. The Lord said to him, ""You are very old. And there are still very large areas of land that have not been taken over yet." 
Joshua13:2 Here is the land that remains to be taken over. It includes all of the areas of Philistia and Geshur. 
Joshua13:3 Those areas begin at the Shihor River in the eastern part of Egypt. They go to the territory of Ekron in the north. All of that land is considered as belonging to the people of Canaan. The land that remains to be taken over includes the territory of the five rulers of Philistia. They rule over Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron. The Avvites" 
Joshua13:4 live south of them. The rest of the land of Canaan that remains to be taken over reaches from Arah all the way to Aphek. Arah belongs to the people of Sidon. The land that remains to be taken over includes the area where the Amorites live. 
Joshua13:5 It includes the area where the people of Byblos live. It also includes all of Lebanon to the east. It reaches from Baal Gad below Mount Hermon to Lebo Hamath. 
Joshua13:6 I myself will drive out all of the people who live in the mountain areas. Those areas reach from Lebanon to Misrephoth Maim. They include the area where all of the people of Sidon live. I myself will drive those people out to make room for the people of Israel. Make sure you set that land apart for Israel. Give it to them as their share, just as I have directed you." 
Joshua13:7 Divide it up among the nine tribes and half of the tribe of Manasseh. Give each tribe its share. 
Joshua13:8 The other half of Manasseh's tribe had already received the share of land Moses had given them. Their share was east of the Jordan River. The tribes of Reuben and Gad had already received their share too. Moses, the servant of the Lord, had given it to them." 
Joshua13:9 That land starts at Aroer on the rim of the Arnon River valley. It includes the town in the middle of the valley. It includes the high flatlands of Medeba all the way to Dibon. 
Joshua13:10 It also includes all of the towns of Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He had ruled in Heshbon. That area reaches to the border of Ammon." 
Joshua13:11 It also includes Gilead. It includes the territory of Geshur and Maacah. It includes Mount Hermon and the whole land of Bashan all the way to Salecah. 
Joshua13:12 So it includes the entire kingdom of Og in Bashan. Og had ruled in Ashtaroth and Edrei. He was one of the last of the Rephaites. Moses had won the battle over Sihon and Og. He had taken over their land. 
Joshua13:13 But the people of Israel didn't drive out the people of Geshur and Maacah. So they continue to live among the people of Israel to this very day. 
Joshua13:14 Moses hadn't given any share of the land to the tribe of Levi. That's because the offerings that are made with fire are their share. Those offerings are made to the Lord, the God of Israel. Moses gave the Levites what he had promised them." 
Joshua13:15 Here is what Moses had given to the tribe of Reuben, family group by family group." 
Joshua13:16 Their territory starts at Aroer on the rim of the Arnon River valley. It includes the town in the middle of the valley. It includes all of the high flatlands that are near Medeba. 
Joshua13:17 It includes Heshbon and all of its towns on those flatlands. Those towns include Dibon, Bamoth Baal, Beth Baal Meon," 
Joshua13:18 Jahaz, Kedemoth and Mephaath." 
Joshua13:19 They include Kiriathaim, Sibmah and Zereth Shahar on the hill in the valley." 
Joshua13:20 They also include Beth Peor, Beth Jeshimoth and the slopes of Pisgah." 
Joshua13:21 All of those towns are on the high flatlands. The territory includes the whole kingdom of Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He had ruled in Heshbon. Moses had won the battle over him and over the chiefs of Midian. Those chiefs were Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur and Reba. They were princes who helped Sihon fight against Israel. They lived in that country." 
Joshua13:22 The people of Israel killed many of them in battle. They also killed Balaam with a sword. He was the son of Beor. Balaam used magic to find out what was going to happen. 
Joshua13:23 The border of the tribe of Reuben was the bank of the Jordan River. All of those towns and their villages were given to the tribe of Reuben as their very own. Each family group received its share. 
Joshua13:24 Here is what Moses had given to the tribe of Gad, family group by family group." 
Joshua13:25 Their territory includes Jazer and all of the towns of Gilead. It includes half of the country of Ammon all the way to Aroer, which was near Rabbah." 
Joshua13:26 Their territory reaches from Heshbon to Ramath Mizpah and Betonim. It reaches from Mahanaim to the territory of Debir. 
Joshua13:27 In the valley their land includes Beth Haram, Beth Nimrah, Succoth and Zaphon. It also includes the rest of the kingdom of Sihon. He was the king of Heshbon. His kingdom included the east side of the Jordan River. It reached up to the south end of the Sea of Galilee." 
Joshua13:28 All of those towns and their villages were given to the tribe of Gad as their very own. Each family group received its share. 
Joshua13:29 Here is what Moses had given to half of the tribe of Manasseh, family group by family group. It's what Moses had given to half of Manasseh's family line." 
Joshua13:30 Their territory starts at Mahanaim. It includes the whole land of Bashan. That was the entire kingdom of Og, the king of Bashan. Manasseh's territory includes all of the 60 towns of Jair in Bashan." 
Joshua13:31 It includes half of the land of Gilead. It also includes Ashtaroth and Edrei. They were the royal cities of Og in Bashan. That land was given to half of the family line of Makir. He was the son of Manasseh. Each family group received its share. 
Joshua13:32 Those were the shares of land Moses had given the eastern tribes when he was in the flatlands of Moab. The flatlands are across the Jordan River east of Jericho. 
Joshua13:33 But Moses hadn't given any share to the tribe of Levi. The Lord, the God of Israel, is their share. Moses gave the Levites what he had promised them." 
Joshua14:1 The rest of the tribes of Israel received their shares of land in Canaan. The priest Eleazar and Joshua, the son of Nun, decided what each of the tribes should receive. The leaders of the tribes helped them make those decisions." 
Joshua14:2 The shares of nine tribes and half of the tribe of Manasseh were decided by using lots. That's what the Lord had commanded through Moses. 
Joshua14:3 Moses had given two tribes and the other half of the tribe of Manasseh their shares east of the Jordan River. But Moses had not given the Levites a share among the other tribes. 
Joshua14:4 Manasseh and Ephraim were the sons of Joseph. They had become two tribes. The Levites didn't receive any share of the land. They only received towns to live in and grasslands for their flocks and herds. 
Joshua14:5 So the people of Israel divided up the land, just as the Lord had commanded Moses." 
Joshua14:6 The men of Judah approached Joshua at Gilgal. Caleb, the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, spoke to Joshua. He said, ""You know what the Lord said to Moses, the man of God. He spoke to him at Kadesh Barnea about you and me." 
Joshua14:7 Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh Barnea to check out the land. I was 40 years old at that time. I brought back an honest report to him. I told him exactly what I had seen." 
Joshua14:8 Several other men of Israel went up with me. What they reported made the hearts of the people melt away in fear. But I followed the Lord my God with my whole heart. 
Joshua14:9 So on that day Moses took an oath and made a promise to me. He said, 'The land your feet have walked on will be your share. It will be the share of your children forever. That's because you have followed the Lord my God with your whole heart.' ,(Deuteronomy 1:36)" 
Joshua14:9 So on that day Moses took an oath and made a promise to me. He said, 'The land your feet have walked on will be your share. It will be the share of your children forever. That's because you have followed the Lord my God with your whole heart.' ,(Deuteronomy 1:36)" 
Joshua14:10 The Lord has done just as he promised. He made the promise while Israel was wandering around in the desert. That was 45 years ago. He has kept me alive all of this time. So here I am today, 85 years old!" 
Joshua14:11 I'm still as strong today as I was the day Moses sent me out. I'm just as able to go out to battle now as I was then. 
Joshua14:12 So give me this hill country. The Lord promised it to me that day. At that time you yourself heard that the Anakites were living there. You also heard that their cities were large and had high walls. But I'll drive them out, just as the Lord said I would. He will help me do it.""" 
Joshua14:13 Then Joshua blessed Caleb, the son of Jephunneh. He gave him Hebron as his share." 
Joshua14:14 So ever since that time Hebron has belonged to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite. That's because he followed the Lord, the God of Israel, with his whole heart." 
Joshua14:15 Hebron used to be called Kiriath Arba. It was named after Arba. He was the greatest man among the Anakites. So the land had peace and rest. 
Joshua15:1 Land was given to the tribe of Judah, family group by family group. It reached down to the territory of Edom. It went as far south as the Desert of Zin." 
Joshua15:2 Judah's border on the south started from the bay at the south end of the Dead Sea. 
Joshua15:3 It went across to the south of Scorpion Pass. It continued on to Zin. It went over to the south of Kadesh Barnea. Then it ran past Hezron up to Addar. It curved around to Karka. 
Joshua15:4 It then went along to Azmon. There it joined the Wadi of Egypt and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. That was the southern border of Judah. 
Joshua15:5 The border on the east was the Dead Sea. It went north all the way to where the Jordan River enters the sea. The border on the north started at the bay of the Dead Sea. That's where the Jordan River enters the sea. 
Joshua15:6 From there it went up to Beth Hoglah. It continued north of Beth Arabah to the Stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben." 
Joshua15:7 Then it went from the Valley of Achor up to Debir. It turned north to Gilgal. Gilgal faces the Pass of Adummim south of the valley. The border continued along to the springs of En Shemesh. It came to an end at En Rogel. 
Joshua15:8 Then it ran up the Valley of Ben Hinnom. It went along the south slope of Jerusalem. From there it climbed to the top of the hill that is west of the Hinnom Valley. The hill is also at the north end of the Valley of Rephaim. 
Joshua15:9 From the top of the hill the border headed toward the springs of Nephtoah. It went to the towns near Mount Ephron. It went down toward Kiriath Jearim. 
Joshua15:10 Then it curved west from Kiriath Jearim to Mount Seir. It ran along the north slope of Mount Kesalon. It continued down to Beth Shemesh and crossed over to Timnah. 
Joshua15:11 It went to the north slope of Ekron. Then it turned toward Shikkeron. It passed along to Mount Baalah and reached Jabneel. The border came to an end at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Joshua15:12 The border on the west was the coastline of the Mediterranean Sea. Those were the borders of the family groups of the tribe of Judah. 
Joshua15:13 Joshua gave a part of Judah's share of land to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh. That was in keeping with the Lord's command to Joshua. The share Caleb received was the city of Hebron. It was also called Kiriath Arba. Anak came from the family line of Arba." 
Joshua15:14 Caleb drove three Anakites out of Hebron. Their names were Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai. They were from the family line of Anak." 
Joshua15:15 From Hebron, Caleb marched out against the people who were living in Debir. It used to be called Kiriath Sepher." 
Joshua15:16 Caleb said, ""I will give my daughter Acsah to be married. I'll give her to the man who attacks and captures Kiriath Sepher.""" 
Joshua15:17 Othniel captured it. So Caleb gave his daughter Acsah to him to be his wife. Othniel was the son of Kenaz. He was Caleb's brother. 
Joshua15:18 One day Acsah came to Othniel. She begged him to ask her father for a field. When she got off her donkey, Caleb spoke to her. He asked, ""What can I do for you?""" 
Joshua15:19 She replied, ""Do me a special favor. You have given me some land in the Negev Desert. Give me springs of water also."" So Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs." 
Joshua15:20 Here is the share of land that was given to the tribe of Judah, family group by family group." 
Joshua15:21 The towns farthest south that were given to Judah were in the Negev Desert. They were near the border of Edom. Here is a list of those towns. Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur," 
Joshua15:22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah," 
Joshua15:23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan," 
Joshua15:24 Ziph, Telem, Bealoth," 
Joshua15:25 Hazor Hadattah, Hazor," 
Joshua15:26 Amam, Shema, Moladah," 
Joshua15:27 Hazar Gaddah, Heshmon, Beth Pelet," 
Joshua15:28 Hazar Shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah," 
Joshua15:29 Baalah, Iim, Ezem," 
Joshua15:30 Eltolad, Kesil, Hormah," 
Joshua15:31 Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah," 
Joshua15:32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain and Rimmon. The total number of towns was 29. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:33 Towns were also given to Judah in the western hills. Here is a list of those towns. Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah," 
Joshua15:34 Zanoah, En Gannim, Tappuah, Enam," 
Joshua15:35 Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah," 
Joshua15:36 Shaaraim, Adithaim and Gederah. Gederah is also called Gederothaim. The total number of towns was 14. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:37 Here's another list of towns that were given to Judah in the western hills. Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal Gad," 
Joshua15:38 Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel," 
Joshua15:39 Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon," 
Joshua15:40 Cabbon, Lahmas, Kitlish," 
Joshua15:41 Gederoth, Beth Dagon, Naamah and Makkedah. The total number of towns was 16. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:42 Here's another list of towns that were given to Judah in the western hills. Libnah, Ether, Ashan," 
Joshua15:43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib," 
Joshua15:44 Keilah, Aczib and Mareshah. The total number of towns was nine. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:45 Judah was also given Ekron and the settlements and villages that were around it. 
Joshua15:46 West of Ekron, Judah was given all of the settlements and villages that were near Ashdod." 
Joshua15:47 Judah was given Ashdod and the settlements and villages that were around it. And Judah was given Gaza and its settlements and villages. Judah's territory went all the way to the Wadi of Egypt and the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. 
Joshua15:48 Towns were also given to Judah in the central hill country. Here is a list of those towns. Shamir, Jattir, Socoh," 
Joshua15:49 Dannah, Debir," 
Joshua15:50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim," 
Joshua15:51 Goshen, Holon and Giloh. The total number of towns was 11. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:52 Here's another list of towns that were given to Judah in the central hill country. Arab, Dumah, Eshan," 
Joshua15:53 Janim, Beth Tappuah, Aphekah," 
Joshua15:54 Humtah, Hebron and Zior. The total number of towns was nine. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:55 Here's another list of towns that were given to Judah in the central hill country. Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah," 
Joshua15:56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah," 
Joshua15:57 Kain, Gibeah and Timnah. The total number of towns was ten. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:58 Here's another list of towns that were given to Judah in the central hill country. Halhul, Beth Zur, Gedor," 
Joshua15:59 Maarath, Beth Anoth and Eltekon. The total number of towns was six. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:60 Here's another list of towns that were given to Judah in the central hill country. Kiriath Jearim and Rabbah. The total number of towns was two. They had villages near them. 
Joshua15:61 Towns were also given to Judah in the desert. Here is a list of those towns. Beth Arabah, Middin, Secacah," 
Joshua15:62 Nibshan, the City of Salt and En Gedi. The total number of towns was six. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua15:63 Judah couldn't drive out the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem. So they live there with the people of Judah to this very day. 
Joshua16:1 The land that was given to the two tribes in the family line of Joseph began at the Jordan River near Jericho. Their border started east of the springs of Jericho. It went up from there through the desert into the hill country of Bethel. 
Joshua16:2 Bethel is also called Luz. From Bethel it crossed over to Ataroth. That's where the Arkites live. 
Joshua16:3 Then it went west down to the territory of the Japhletites. It went all the way to the area of Lower Beth Horon. It went on to Gezer. It came to an end at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Joshua16:4 The tribes of Manasseh and Ephraim were from the family line of Joseph. So they received that land as their share. 
Joshua16:5 Here is the territory that was given to the tribe of Ephraim, family group by family group. The border of their share of land started at Ataroth Addar in the east. It went to Upper Beth Horon." 
Joshua16:6 It continued toward the Mediterranean Sea. From Micmethath on the north, it curved toward the east. It went to Taanath Shiloh. It passed by Taanath Shiloh to Janoah on the east." 
Joshua16:7 Then it went down from Janoah to Ataroth and Naarah. It touched Jericho and came to an end at the Jordan River. 
Joshua16:8 From Tappuah the border went west to the Kanah Valley. It came to an end at the Mediterranean Sea. That was the land that was given to the tribe of Ephraim. Each family group received its share. 
Joshua16:9 The tribe of Ephraim was also given other towns and villages that were set apart for them. Those towns and villages were in the share of land that was given to the tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua16:10 The people of Ephraim didn't drive out the people of Canaan who were living in Gezer. The people of Canaan live among the people of Ephraim to this very day. But they are forced to work hard for the people of Ephraim. 
Joshua17:1 Land was given to the tribe of Manasseh. It was given to Makir. Manasseh was Joseph's oldest son. Makir was Manasseh's oldest son. The people of Gilead came from the family line of Makir. The people of Gilead had received the lands of Gilead and Bashan. That's because the people of Makir were great soldiers. 
Joshua17:2 So land was given to the rest of the people of Manasseh. It was given to the family groups of Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher and Shemida. They were the other men in the family line of Manasseh, the son of Joseph. Those were their names by their family groups." 
Joshua17:3 Makir was the son of Manasseh. Gilead was the son of Makir. Hepher was the son of Gilead. And Zelophehad was the son of Hepher. Zelophehad didn't have any sons. He only had daughters. Their names were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah." 
Joshua17:4 The daughters of Zelophehad went to the priest Eleazar and to Joshua, the son of Nun. They also went to the other leaders. They said, ""The Lord commanded Moses to give us our share of land among our male relatives."" So Joshua gave them land along with their male relatives. That was in keeping with what the Lord had commanded." 
Joshua17:5 Manasseh's share was made up of ten pieces of land. That land was in addition to Gilead and Bashan east of the Jordan River. 
Joshua17:6 So the five granddaughters of Hepher in the family line of Manasseh received land, just as the other five sons of Manasseh did. The land of Gilead belonged to the rest of the family line of Manasseh." 
Joshua17:7 The territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Micmethath. Micmethath was east of Shechem. The border ran south from Micmethath. The people who were living at En Tappuah were inside the border. 
Joshua17:8 Manasseh had the land around Tappuah. But the town of Tappuah itself was on the border of Manasseh's land. It belonged to the people of Ephraim. 
Joshua17:9 The border continued south to the Kanah Valley. Some of the towns that belonged to Ephraim were located among the towns of Manasseh. But the border of Manasseh was the north side of the valley. The border came to an end at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Joshua17:10 The land on the south belonged to Ephraim. The land on the north belonged to Manasseh. The territory of Manasseh reached the Mediterranean Sea. The tribe of Asher was the border on the north. The tribe of Issachar was the border on the east. 
Joshua17:11 Inside the land that was given to Issachar and Asher, the towns of Beth Shan and Ibleam belonged to Manasseh. The towns of Dor, Endor, Taanach and Megiddo and their people also belonged to Manasseh. Manasseh was given all of those towns and the settlements that were around them. The third town in the list was also called Naphoth Dor." 
Joshua17:12 But the people of Manasseh weren't able to take over those towns. That's because the people of Canaan had made up their minds to live in that area. 
Joshua17:13 The people of Israel grew stronger. Then they forced the people of Canaan to work hard for them. But they didn't drive them out completely. 
Joshua17:14 The people in the family line of Joseph spoke to Joshua. They said, ""Why have you given us only one share of the land to have as our own? There are large numbers of us. The Lord has blessed us greatly.""" 
Joshua17:15 That's true,"" Joshua said. ""There are large numbers of you. And the hill country of Ephraim is too small for you. So go up into the forest. Clear out some land for yourselves in the territory of the Perizzites and Rephaites.""" 
Joshua17:16 The people in Joseph's family line replied. They said, ""The hill country isn't big enough for us. And all of the people of Canaan who live in the flatlands use chariots that have iron parts. They include the people of Beth Shan and its settlements. They also include the people who live in the Valley of Jezreel.""" 
Joshua17:17 Joshua spoke again to the people in Joseph's family line. He said to the people of Ephraim and Manasseh, ""There are large numbers of you. And you are very powerful. You will have more than one piece of land." 
Joshua17:18 You will also have the central hill country. It's covered with trees. Cut them down and clear the land. That whole land from one end to the other will belong to you. The people of Canaan use chariots that have iron parts. And those people are strong. But you can drive them out. 
Joshua18:1 The whole community of Israel gathered together at Shiloh. They set up the Tent of Meeting there. The country was brought under their control. 
Joshua18:2 But there were still seven tribes in Israel who had not yet received their shares of land. 
Joshua18:3 So Joshua spoke to the people of Israel. He said, ""The Lord, the God of your people, has given you this land. How long will you wait before you begin to take it over?" 
Joshua18:4 Appoint three men from each tribe. I'll send them to map out the land. Then they'll write a report about its features. The report will point out the share of land each tribe will receive. Then the men will return to me. 
Joshua18:5 You must divide the land up into seven shares. Judah must remain in its territory in the south. The people in Joseph's family line must remain in their territory in the north. 
Joshua18:6 Write reports about the features of those seven shares of land. Bring them here to me. Then I'll cast lots for you in the sight of the Lord our God. 
Joshua18:7 But the Levites don't get any share of your land. That's because their share is to serve the Lord as priests. The tribes of Gad and Reuben and half of the tribe of Manasseh have already received their shares. They are on the east side of the Jordan River. Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave their shares to them.""" 
Joshua18:8 The men started out on their way to map out the land. Joshua directed them, ""Go and map out the land. Write a report about its features. Then return to me. I'll cast lots for you here at Shiloh in the sight of the Lord.""" 
Joshua18:9 So the men left and went through the land. They wrote a report about its features on a scroll. It showed how they divided up the land into seven shares. It listed the towns that were in each share. The men returned to Joshua in the camp at Shiloh. 
Joshua18:10 Then Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh in the sight of the Lord. There he gave out a share of land to each of the remaining tribes in Israel. 
Joshua18:11 The first lot that was drawn out was for the tribe of Benjamin, family group by family group. The territory they were given was located between the tribes of the people of Judah and the people of Joseph. Here are the borders of Benjamin's territory." 
Joshua18:12 On the north side their border started at the Jordan River. It went past the north slope of Jericho. Then it headed west into the central hill country. It came to an end at the Desert of Beth Aven. 
Joshua18:13 From there it crossed to the south slope of Bethel. Then it went down to Ataroth Addar on the hill south of Lower Beth Horon. 
Joshua18:14 From the hill that faces Beth Horon on the south the border turned south along the west side of the hill. It came to an end at Kiriath Jearim. That town belongs to the people of Judah. That was the border on the west. 
Joshua18:15 The border on the south side started at the west edge of Kiriath Jearim. It came to an end at the springs of Nephtoah. 
Joshua18:16 It went down to the foot of the hill that faces the Valley of Ben Hinnom. The hill is north of the Valley of Rephaim. The border continued down the Hinnom Valley. It went along the south slope of Jerusalem, where the people of Jebus live. It continued on to En Rogel." 
Joshua18:17 Then it curved north. It went to En Shemesh. It continued on to Geliloth. Geliloth faces the Pass of Adummim. The border ran down to the Stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben." 
Joshua18:18 It continued to the north slope of Beth Arabah. It went on down into the Arabah Valley. 
Joshua18:19 From there it went to the north slope of Beth Hoglah. It came to an end at the north bay of the Dead Sea. That's where the Jordan River flows into the Dead Sea. That was the border on the south. 
Joshua18:20 The Jordan River formed the border on the east side. Those were the borders that marked out on all sides the land the family groups of Benjamin received as their share. 
Joshua18:21 Here is a list of towns that were given to the tribe of Benjamin, family group by family group. Jericho, Beth Hoglah, Emek Keziz," 
Joshua18:22 Beth Arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel," 
Joshua18:23 Avvim, Parah, Ophrah," 
Joshua18:24 Kephar Ammoni, Ophni and Geba. The total number of towns and their villages was 12." 
Joshua18:25 Here is another list of towns that were given to Benjamin. Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth," 
Joshua18:26 Mizpah, Kephirah, Mozah," 
Joshua18:27 Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah," 
Joshua18:28 Zelah, Haeleph, Jerusalem, Gibeah and Kiriath. The total number of towns and their villages was 14. That was the share of land the family groups of Benjamin received." 
Joshua19:1 The second lot that was drawn out was for the tribe of Simeon, family group by family group. The share of land they were given was in the territory of Judah." 
Joshua19:2 Here is what Simeon's share included. Beersheba, Moladah," 
Joshua19:3 Hazar Shual, Balah, Ezem," 
Joshua19:4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah," 
Joshua19:5 Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susah," 
Joshua19:6 Beth Lebaoth and Sharuhen. The total number of towns was 13. Some of them had villages near them. 
Joshua19:7 Here's another list of towns that were given to Simeon. Ain, Rimmon, Ether and Ashan. The total number of towns was four. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua19:8 The towns and all of the villages that were around them reached all the way to Ramah in the Negev Desert. That was the share of land the tribe of Simeon received, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:9 Simeon's share of land was taken from Judah's share. That's because Judah had more land than they needed. So the people of Simeon received their share of land inside the territory of Judah. 
Joshua19:10 The third lot that was drawn out was for the tribe of Zebulun, family group by family group. Here are the borders of Zebulun's territory. The border of their share of land went as far as Sarid." 
Joshua19:11 It ran west to Maralah and touched Dabbesheth. It reached to the valley near Jokneam. 
Joshua19:12 It turned east from Sarid toward the sunrise. It went to the territory of Kisloth Tabor. It went on to Daberath and up to Japhia. 
Joshua19:13 Then it continued east to Gath Hepher and Eth Kazin. It came to an end at Rimmon and turned toward Neah. 
Joshua19:14 There the border went around on the north to Hannathon. It came to an end at the Valley of Iphtah El. 
Joshua19:15 Zebulun's territory included Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah and Bethlehem. The total number of towns was 12. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua19:16 Those towns and their villages were Zebulun's share, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:17 The fourth lot that was drawn out was for the tribe of Issachar, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:18 Here is what Issachar's share included. Jezreel, Kesulloth, Shunem," 
Joshua19:19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath," 
Joshua19:20 Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez," 
Joshua19:21 Remeth, En Gannim, En Haddah and Beth Pazzez." 
Joshua19:22 The border touched Tabor, Shahazumah and Beth Shemesh. It came to an end at the Jordan River. The total number of towns was 16. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua19:23 Those towns and their villages were the share the tribe of Issachar received, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:24 The fifth lot that was drawn out was for the tribe of Asher, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:25 Here is what Asher's share included. Helkath, Hali, Beten, Acshaph," 
Joshua19:26 Allammelech, Amad and Mishal. On the west the border touched Carmel and Shihor Libnath." 
Joshua19:27 Then it turned east toward Beth Dagon. It touched Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtah El. It went north to Beth Emek and Neiel. It went past Cabul on the left. 
Joshua19:28 It went to Abdon, Rehob, Hammon and Kanah. It reached all the way to Greater Sidon." 
Joshua19:29 The border then turned back toward Ramah. It went to Tyre, a city that had high walls around it. It turned toward Hosah. It came to an end at the Mediterranean Sea in the area of Aczib," 
Joshua19:30 Ummah, Aphek and Rehob. The total number of towns was 22. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua19:31 Those towns and their villages were the share the tribe of Asher received, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:32 The sixth lot that was drawn out was for Naphtali, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:33 Their border started at Heleph and the large tree in Zaanannim. It went past Adami Nekeb and Jabneel. It went to Lakkum and came to an end at the Jordan River. 
Joshua19:34 The border ran west through Aznoth Tabor. It came to an end at Hukkok. It touched Zebulun on the south. It touched Asher on the west. It touched the Jordan on the east. 
Joshua19:35 The cities that had high walls around them were Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Kinnereth," 
Joshua19:36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor," 
Joshua19:37 Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor," 
Joshua19:38 Iron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth Anath and Beth Shemesh. The total number of towns was 19. Some of them had villages near them." 
Joshua19:39 Those towns and their villages were the share the tribe of Naphtali received, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:40 The seventh lot that was drawn out was for the tribe of Dan, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:41 Here is what Dan's share of land included. Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir Shemesh," 
Joshua19:42 Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah," 
Joshua19:43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron," 
Joshua19:44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath," 
Joshua19:45 Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath Rimmon," 
Joshua19:46 Me Jarkon and Rakkon. Dan's share included the area that faces Joppa. 
Joshua19:47 The people of Dan had trouble taking over their territory. So they went up and attacked Leshem. They took it. They killed its people with their swords. Then they moved into Leshem and settled down there. They named it Dan. That's because they traced their family line back to him. 
Joshua19:48 All of those towns and their villages were the share the tribe of Dan received, family group by family group." 
Joshua19:49 The people of Israel finished dividing up the shares of land the tribes received. Then they gave a share to Joshua, the son of Nun." 
Joshua19:50 They did what the Lord had commanded them to do. They gave Joshua the town he asked for. It was Timnath Serah in the hill country of Ephraim. He built up the town and settled down there. 
Joshua19:51 All of those territories were given out by using lots at Shiloh. The lots were drawn out by the priest Eleazar and by Joshua, the son of Nun. The leaders of the tribes of Israel helped them. The lots were drawn out in front of the Lord at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. So the work of dividing up the land was finished." 
Joshua20:1 Then the Lord spoke to Joshua. He said," 
Joshua20:2 Tell the people of Israel to choose the cities to go to for safety, just as I directed you through Moses." 
Joshua20:3 Anyone who kills a person by accident can run there for safety. So can anyone who kills a person without meaning to. The one who is charged with murder will be kept safe from the nearest male relative of the person who was killed. 
Joshua20:4 Suppose the one who is charged runs for safety to one of those cities. Then he must stand in the entrance of the city gate. He must state his case in front of the elders of that city. They must let him come into their city. They must give him a place to live there. 
Joshua20:5 Suppose the nearest male relative of the person who was killed comes after him. Then the elders must not hand him over to that relative. That's because he didn't mean to kill his neighbor. He didn't make evil plans to do it. 
Joshua20:6 He must stay in that city until his case has been brought to the community court. He must stay there until the high priest who is serving at that time dies. Then he can go back to his own home. He can return to the town he ran away from. 
Joshua20:7 So the people of Israel set apart Kedesh in Galilee. It's in the hill country of Naphtali. They set apart Shechem. It's in the hill country of Ephraim. They set apart Kiriath Arba. It's in the hill country of Judah. Kiriath Arba is also called Hebron. 
Joshua20:8 On the east side of the Jordan River near Jericho they chose Bezer. It's in the desert on the high flatlands. It's in the territory of the tribe of Reuben. They chose Ramoth in Gilead. It's in the territory of the tribe of Gad. They chose Golan in the land of Bashan. It's in the territory of the tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua20:9 Suppose you kill someone by accident. Or another Israelite does it. Or an outsider who lives among you does it. Then any of you can run for safety to one of those cities that have been chosen. There you won't be killed by the nearest male relative of the person who was killed. First your case must be brought to the community court. 
Joshua21:1 The leaders of the Levite family groups approached the priest Eleazar and Joshua, the son of Nun. They also approached the leaders of the family groups of Israel's other tribes." 
Joshua21:2 They went to all of them at Shiloh in Canaan. They said to them, ""Give us towns to live in. Also give us grasslands for our livestock. That's what the Lord commanded through Moses.""" 
Joshua21:3 So the people of Israel gave the Levites towns and grasslands out of their own shares of land. They did what the Lord had commanded. Here are the towns the Levites were given. 
Joshua21:4 The first lot that was drawn out was for the people of Kohath, family group by family group. Some of the Levites came from the family line of the priest Aaron. They were given 13 towns from the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin." 
Joshua21:5 The rest of Kohath's family groups were given ten towns from the family groups of the tribes of Ephraim and Dan and half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua21:6 The family groups of Gershon were given 13 towns from the family groups of the tribes of Issachar, Asher and Naphtali and half of the tribe of Manasseh. That part of Manasseh was in the land of Bashan." 
Joshua21:7 The family groups of Merari received 12 towns from the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Zebulun. Each family group received its share." 
Joshua21:8 So the people of Israel gave those towns and their grasslands to the Levites. They did what the Lord had commanded through Moses. 
Joshua21:9 They gave some towns from the territories of the tribes of Judah and Simeon 
Joshua21:10 to the members of the family line of Aaron. The towns were given to the family groups of Kohath. They were Levites. The first lot that was drawn out was for them. Here are the towns the family groups of Kohath were given. 
Joshua21:11 The people of Israel gave them Kiriath Arba and the grasslands that were around it. Kiriath Arba is also called Hebron. It's in the hill country of Judah. Anak came from the family line of Arba. 
Joshua21:12 But Israel had already given away the fields and villages around the city. They had given them to Caleb as his share. Caleb was the son of Jephunneh. 
Joshua21:13 So they gave Hebron to the members of the family line of the priest Aaron. Hebron was a city where anyone who was charged with murder could go for safety. They also gave them Libnah," 
Joshua21:14 Jattir, Eshtemoa," 
Joshua21:15 Holon, Debir," 
Joshua21:16 Ain, Juttah and Beth Shemesh. They gave those towns and their grasslands to the family groups of Kohath. The total number of towns from the tribes of Judah and Simeon was nine." 
Joshua21:17 The people of Israel gave some towns from the tribe of Benjamin to the family groups of Kohath. The towns were Gibeon, Geba," 
Joshua21:18 Anathoth and Almon. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:19 So the total number of towns and their grasslands that were given to the priests in the family line of Aaron was 13. 
Joshua21:20 There were other family groups of Kohath among the Levites. They were given towns from the tribe of Ephraim. Here are the towns those other family groups of Kohath were given. 
Joshua21:21 In the hill country of Ephraim they were given Shechem. It was a city where anyone who was charged with murder could go for safety. They were also given Gezer," 
Joshua21:22 Kibzaim and Beth Horon. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:23 From the tribe of Dan they received Eltekeh, Gibbethon," 
Joshua21:24 Aijalon and Gath Rimmon. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:25 From half of the tribe of Manasseh they received Taanach and Gath Rimmon. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was two. 
Joshua21:26 So all of those ten towns and their grasslands were given to the other family groups of Kohath. 
Joshua21:27 Here are the towns the family groups of Gershon among the Levites were given. From half of the tribe of Manasseh they received Golan in the land of Bashan. Golan was a city where anyone who was charged with murder could go for safety. They also received Be Eshtarah. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was two. 
Joshua21:28 From the tribe of Issacharthey received Kishion, Daberath," 
Joshua21:29 Jarmuth and En Gannim. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:30 From the tribe of Asherthey received Mishal, Abdon," 
Joshua21:31 Helkath and Rehob. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:32 From the tribe of Naphtalithey received Kedesh in Galilee. Kedesh was a city where anyone who was charged with murder could go for safety. They also received Hammoth Dor and Kartan. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was three. 
Joshua21:33 So the total number of towns and their grasslands that were given to the family groups of Gershon was 13. 
Joshua21:34 The rest of the Levites were from the family groups of Merari. Here are the towns they were given. From the tribe of Zebulunthey received Jokneam, Kartah," 
Joshua21:35 Dimnah and Nahalal. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:36 From the tribe of Reubenthey received Bezer, Jahaz," 
Joshua21:37 Kedemoth and Mephaath. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:38 From the tribe of Gadthey received Ramoth in Gilead. Ramoth was a city where anyone who was charged with murder could go for safety. They also received Mahanaim," 
Joshua21:39 Heshbon and Jazer. The total number of those towns and their grasslands was four. 
Joshua21:40 So the total number of towns that were given to the family groups of Merari was 12. That concludes the list of towns the rest of the Levites received. 
Joshua21:41 The total number of Levite towns and their grasslands in the territory that was given to Israel was 48. 
Joshua21:42 Each of those towns had grasslands around it. That was true of all of them. 
Joshua21:43 So the Lord gave Israel all of the land he had promised with an oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. And Israel took it over. Then they settled down there." 
Joshua21:44 The Lord gave them peace and rest on every side. That's what he had promised their fathers he would do. Not one of their enemies was able to fight against Israel and win. The Lord handed all of their enemies over to them. 
Joshua21:45 The Lord kept all of the good promises he had made to the people of Israel. Every one of them came true. 
Joshua22:1 Joshua sent for the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua22:2 He said to them, ""You have done everything that Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded. You have also obeyed everything I commanded." 
Joshua22:3 For a long time now you haven't deserted the other Israelites. Instead, you have done what the Lord your God sent you to do. You have obeyed him to this very day." 
Joshua22:4 Now the Lord your God has given the other tribes peace and rest. That's what he promised to do. So return to your homes. They are in the land that Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave you. It's on the east side of the Jordan River." 
Joshua22:5 Be very careful to obey the law that Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave you. He commanded you to love the Lord your God. He told you to live exactly as the Lord wants you to. He told you to obey the Lord's commands. He told you to remain true to the Lord. And he told you to serve the Lord with all your heart and with all your soul.""" 
Joshua22:6 Joshua gave the eastern tribes his blessing. Then he sent them home. So they went. 
Joshua22:7 Moses had given land in Bashan to half of the tribe of Manasseh. Joshua had given land to the other half of the tribe along with the other tribes on the west side of the Jordan River. When Joshua sent them home, he blessed them." 
Joshua22:8 He said, ""Return to your homes. Take your great wealth with you. Return with your large herds of livestock. Take your silver, gold, bronze and iron with you. Return with all of your clothes. Divide up the things you have taken from your enemies. Share them with your people.""" 
Joshua22:9 So the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh went home. They left the other people of Israel at Shiloh in Canaan. They returned to Gilead. That was their own land. They had gotten it in keeping with the Lord's command through Moses. 
Joshua22:10 The tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh came to Geliloth. It was near the Jordan River in the land of Canaan. They built a large altar there by the Jordan. 
Joshua22:11 The rest of the people of Israel heard that they had built the altar. They heard that they had built it on the border of Canaan at Geliloth. It was near the Jordan River on the west side. 
Joshua22:12 So the whole community of Israel gathered together at Shiloh. They decided to go to war against the eastern tribes. 
Joshua22:13 The people of Israel sent the priest Phinehas to the land of Gilead. Phinehas was the son of Eleazar. They sent him to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua22:14 They sent ten of their leaders with him. There was one for each of the tribes of Israel. Each man was the leader of a family group among the larger family groups of Israel. 
Joshua22:15 They went to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh in the land of Gilead. They said to them," 
Joshua22:16 We're speaking for the Lord's whole community. How could you disobey the God of Israel like this? How could you turn away from the Lord? How could you disobey him by building an altar for yourselves? 
Joshua22:17 Don't you remember how we sinned at Peor? The Lord struck us with a plague because of what we did. Up to this very day we're still suffering because of that sin. 
Joshua22:18 Are you turning away from the Lord now? Suppose you disobey the Lord today. If you do, he'll be angry with the whole community of Israel tomorrow." 
Joshua22:19 If your own land isn't 'clean,' come over to the Lord's land. It's where his holy tent stands. Share our land with us. But don't disobey the Lord. Don't turn against us by building an altar for yourselves. Don't build any altar other than the altar of the Lord our God." 
Joshua22:20 Remember Achan, the son of Zerah. Achan wasn't faithful to the Lord. He took the things that had been set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. Didn't the Lord's anger come on the whole community of Israel? And Achan wasn't the only one who died because of his sin.""" 
Joshua22:21 Then the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh replied. They answered the leaders of the family groups of Israel. 
Joshua22:22 They said, ""The Mighty One, God, the Lord! The Mighty One, God, the Lord! He knows! And we want Israel to know! Have we opposed the Lord? Have we refused to obey him? If we have, don't spare us today." 
Joshua22:23 Have we built our own altar so we can turn away from the Lord? Have we built it to offer burnt offerings and grain offerings on it? Have we built it to sacrifice friendship offerings on it? If we have, may the Lord himself hold us accountable." 
Joshua22:24 No! We built it because we were afraid. Someday your children might speak to our children. We were afraid they might say, 'What do you have to do with the Lord? What do you have to do with the God of Israel?" 
Joshua22:25 The Lord has made the Jordan River a border between us and you. You people of Reuben! You people of Gad! You don't have anything to do with the Lord.' If your children say that, they might cause our children to stop worshiping the Lord." 
Joshua22:26 That's why we said to ourselves, 'Let's get ready and build an altar. But let's not build it to offer burnt offerings or sacrifices on it.'" 
Joshua22:27 So just the opposite is true. The altar will be a witness between us and you. It will be a witness between our children and yours after us. It will also be a witness that we will worship the Lord at his sacred tent. We'll worship him there with our burnt offerings, sacrifices and friendship offerings. Then in days to come your children won't be able to say to ours, 'You don't have anything to do with the Lord.'" 
Joshua22:28 So we said to ourselves, 'Suppose they say that to us sometime. Or suppose they say it to our children after us. Then we'll answer, ""Look at this altar. It's exactly like the Lord's altar. Our people built it. They didn't build it to offer burnt offerings and sacrifices on it. Instead, they built it to be a witness between us and you."" '" 
Joshua22:29 We would never refuse to obey the Lord. We would never turn away from him now. We wouldn't build an altar to offer burnt offerings, grain offerings and sacrifices on it. We wouldn't use any altar other than the altar of the Lord our God. That altar stands in front of his holy tent.""" 
Joshua22:30 The priest Phinehas heard what the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Manasseh had to say. The leaders of the family groups of the community of Israel heard it too. All of them were pleased with what they heard." 
Joshua22:31 The priest Phinehas spoke to the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Manasseh. Phinehas was the son of Eleazar. He said, ""Today we know that the Lord is with us. That's because you have been faithful to him in this matter. Now you have saved the people of Israel from the Lord's anger against them.""" 
Joshua22:32 Then the priest Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, returned to Canaan. So did the leaders. All of them went back from their meeting with the tribes of Reuben and Gad in Gilead. They brought a report back to the people of Israel." 
Joshua22:33 The people were glad to hear the report. They praised God. They didn't talk anymore about going to war against the eastern tribes. And they didn't talk anymore about destroying the country where the tribes of Reuben and Gad lived. 
Joshua22:34 The tribes of Reuben and Gad gave the altar a name. They called it A Witness Between Us That the Lord Is God. 
Joshua23:1 A long time had passed. The Lord had given Israel peace and rest from all of their enemies who were around them. By that time Joshua was very old. 
Joshua23:2 So he sent for all of the elders, leaders, judges and officials of Israel. He said to them, ""I'm very old." 
Joshua23:3 You yourselves have seen everything the Lord your God has done. You have seen what he's done to all of those nations because of you. The Lord your God fought for you. 
Joshua23:4 Remember how I've given you all of the land of the nations that remain here. I've given each of your tribes a share of it. It's the land of the nations I won the battle over. It's between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea in the west. 
Joshua23:5 The Lord your God himself will drive those nations out of your way. He will push them out to make room for you. You will take over their land, just as the Lord your God promised you." 
Joshua23:6 Be very strong. Be careful to obey everything that is written in the Scroll of the Law of Moses. Don't turn away from it to the right or the left. 
Joshua23:7 Don't have anything to do with the nations that remain among you. Don't use the names of their gods for any reason at all. Don't take oaths and make promises in their names. You must not serve them. You must not bow down to them. 
Joshua23:8 You must remain true to the Lord your God, just as you have done until now." 
Joshua23:9 The Lord has driven out great and powerful nations to make room for you. To this very day no one has been able to fight against you and win. 
Joshua23:10 One of you can chase a thousand away. That's because the Lord your God fights for you, just as he promised he would." 
Joshua23:11 So be very careful to love the Lord your God. 
Joshua23:12 But suppose you turn away from him. You mix with the people who are left alive in the nations that remain among you. Later, you and they get married to each other. And you do other kinds of things with them." 
Joshua23:13 Then you can be sure of what the Lord your God will do. He won't drive out those nations to make room for you anymore. Instead, they will become traps and snares for you. They will be like whips on your backs. They will be like thorns in your eyes. All of that will continue until you are destroyed. It will continue until you are removed from this good land. It's the land the Lord your God has given you." 
Joshua23:14 Now I'm about to die, just as everyone else on earth does. The Lord your God has kept all of the good promises he gave you. Every one of them has come true. Not one has failed to come true. And you know that with all your heart and soul." 
Joshua23:15 Every good promise of the Lord your God has come true. So you know that the Lord will bring on you all of the evil things he has warned you about. He'll do it until he has destroyed you. He'll do it until he has removed you from this good land. It's the land he has given you. 
Joshua23:16 Suppose you break the covenant the Lord your God made with you. He commanded you to obey it. But suppose you go and serve other gods. And you bow down to them. Then the Lord's anger will burn against you. You will quickly be destroyed. You will be removed from the good land he has given you. 
Joshua24:1 Joshua gathered all of Israel's tribes together at Shechem. He sent for the elders, leaders, judges and officials of Israel. They came and stood there in the sight of God." 
Joshua24:2 Joshua spoke to all of the people. He said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'Long ago your people lived east of the Euphrates River. They worshiped other gods there. Your people included Terah. He was the father of Abraham and Nahor." 
Joshua24:3  'I took your father Abraham from the land that is east of the Euphrates. I led him all through Canaan. I gave him many children and grandchildren. I gave him Isaac. 
Joshua24:4 To Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau. I gave the hill country of Seir to Esau. But Jacob and his children went down to Egypt. 
Joshua24:5  'Then I sent Moses and Aaron. I made the people of Egypt suffer because of the plagues I sent on them. But I brought you out of Egypt. 
Joshua24:6  'When I brought your parents out, they came to the Red Sea. The people of Egypt chased them with chariots and with men on horses. They chased them all the way to the sea." 
Joshua24:7 But your people cried out to me for help. So I put darkness between you and the people of Egypt. I swept them into the sea. It completely covered them. Your own eyes saw what I did to them. After that, you lived in the desert for a long time." 
Joshua24:8  'I brought you to the land of the Amorites. They lived east of the Jordan River. They fought against you. But I handed them over to you. I destroyed them to make room for you. Then you took over their land. 
Joshua24:9  'Balak, the son of Zippor, prepared to fight against Israel. Balak was king of Moab. He sent for Balaam. He wanted him to put a curse on you. Balaam was the son of Beor." 
Joshua24:10 But I would not listen to Balaam's curses. So he blessed you again and again. And I saved you from his power. 
Joshua24:11  'Then you went across the Jordan River. You came to Jericho. Its people fought against you. So did the Amorites, Perizzites, Canaanites, Hittites, Girgashites, Hivites and Jebusites. But I handed them over to you." 
Joshua24:12  'I sent hornets ahead of you. They drove your enemies out to make room for you. That included the two Amorite kings. You did not do that with your own swords and bows. 
Joshua24:13 So I gave you a land you had never farmed. I gave you cities you had not built. You are now living in them. And you are eating the fruit of vineyards and olive trees you did not plant.' 
Joshua24:14 So have respect for the Lord. Serve him. Be completely faithful to him. Throw away the gods your people worshiped east of the Euphrates River and in Egypt. Serve the Lord. 
Joshua24:15 But suppose you don't want to serve him. Then choose for yourselves right now whom you will serve. You can choose the gods your people served east of the Euphrates River. Or you can choose the gods the Amorites serve. After all, you are living in their land. But as for me and my family, we will serve the Lord.""" 
Joshua24:16 Then the people answered Joshua. They said, ""We would never desert the Lord! We would never serve other gods!" 
Joshua24:17 The Lord our God himself brought us and our parents up out of Egypt. He brought us out of that land where we were slaves. With our own eyes, we saw those great and miraculous signs he did. He kept us safe on our entire journey. He kept us safe as we traveled through all of the nations." 
Joshua24:18 He drove them out to make room for us. That included the Amorites. They also lived in the land. We too will serve the Lord. That's because he is our God. 
Joshua24:19 Joshua spoke to the people. He said, ""You aren't able to serve the Lord. He is a holy God. He is a jealous God. He won't forgive you when you disobey him. He won't forgive you when you sin against him." 
Joshua24:20 Suppose you desert the Lord. Suppose you serve the gods that people in other lands serve. If you do, he will turn against you. He will bring trouble on you. He will destroy you, even though he has been good to you.""" 
Joshua24:21 But the people spoke to Joshua. They said, ""No! We will serve the Lord.""" 
Joshua24:22 Then Joshua said, ""You are witnesses against yourselves. You have said that you have chosen to serve the Lord."" ""Yes. We are witnesses,"" they replied." 
Joshua24:23 Now then,"" said Joshua, ""throw away the gods that are among you. People from other lands serve those gods. Give yourselves completely to the Lord, the God of Israel.""" 
Joshua24:24 Then the people spoke to Joshua. They said, ""We will serve the Lord our God. We will obey him.""" 
Joshua24:25 On that day Joshua made a covenant for the people. There at Shechem he wrote down rules and laws for them. 
Joshua24:26 He recorded those things in the Scroll of the Law of God. Then he got a large stone. He set it up in Shechem under the oak tree. It was near the place that had been set apart for the Lord. 
Joshua24:27 Look! he said to all of the people. This stone will be a witness against us. It has heard all of the words the Lord has spoken to us. Suppose you aren't true to your God. Then the stone will be a witness against you. 
Joshua24:28 Joshua sent the people away. He sent all of them to their own shares of land. 
Joshua24:29 Then Joshua, the servant of the Lord, died. He was the son of Nun. He was 110 years old when he died." 
Joshua24:30 His people buried his body at Timnath Serah on his own property. It's north of Mount Gaash in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Joshua24:31 Israel served the Lord as long as Joshua lived. They also served him as long as the elders lived. Those were the elders who lived longer than Joshua did. They had seen for themselves everything the Lord had done for Israel. 
Joshua24:32 The people of Israel had brought Joseph's bones up from Egypt. They buried his bones at Shechem in the piece of land Jacob had bought. He had bought it from the sons of Hamor. He had paid 100 pieces of silver for it. Hamor was the father of Shechem. That piece of land became the share that belonged to Joseph's children after him. 
Joshua24:33 Aaron's son Eleazar died. His body was buried at Gibeah in the hill country of Ephraim. Gibeah had been given to Eleazar's son Phinehas. 
Judges1:1 Joshua died. After that, the people of Israel spoke to the Lord. They asked him, ""Who will go up first and fight for us against the people of Canaan?""" 
Judges1:1 Joshua died. After that, the people of Israel spoke to the Lord. They asked him, ""Who will go up first and fight for us against the people of Canaan?""" 
Judges1:2 The Lord answered, ""The tribe of Judah will go. I have handed the land over to them.""" 
Judges1:3 Then the men of Judah spoke to their fellow Israelites, the men of Simeon. They said, ""Come up with us. Come into the territory Joshua gave us. Help us fight against the people of Canaan. Then we'll go with you into your territory."" So the men of Simeon went with them." 
Judges1:3 Then the men of Judah spoke to their fellow Israelites, the men of Simeon. They said, ""Come up with us. Come into the territory Joshua gave us. Help us fight against the people of Canaan. Then we'll go with you into your territory."" So the men of Simeon went with them." 
Judges1:4 When the men of Judah attacked, the Lord helped them. He handed the Canaanites and Perizzites over to them. They struck down 10,000 men at Bezek." 
Judges1:5 Judah found Adoni-Bezek there. They fought against him. They struck down the Canaanites and Perizzites. 
Judges1:6 But Adoni-Bezek ran away. Judah chased him and caught him. Then they cut off his thumbs and big toes. 
Judges1:7 Adoni-Bezek said, ""I cut off the thumbs and big toes of 70 kings. I made them pick up scraps under my table. Now God has paid me back for what I did to them."" The men of Judah brought Adoni-Bezek to Jerusalem. That's where he died." 
Judges1:8 The men of Judah attacked Jerusalem and took it. They set the city on fire. They killed its people with their swords. 
Judges1:9 After that, the men of Judah went down to fight against the people of Canaan who were living in the central hill country. They also fought against those who were living in the Negev Desert and the western hills." 
Judges1:10 Then the men of Judah marched out against the Canaanites who were living in Hebron. The men of Judah won the battle over Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai. Hebron used to be called Kiriath Arba." 
Judges1:11 From Hebron they marched out against the people who were living in Debir. It used to be called Kiriath Sepher. 
Judges1:12 Caleb said, ""I will give my daughter Acsah to be married. I'll give her to the man who attacks and captures Kiriath Sepher.""" 
Judges1:13 Othniel captured it. So Caleb gave his daughter Acsah to him to be his wife. Othniel was the son of Kenaz. He was Caleb's younger brother. 
Judges1:14 One day Acsah came to Othniel. She begged him to ask her father for a field. When she got off her donkey, Caleb spoke to her. He said, ""What can I do for you?""" 
Judges1:15 She replied, ""Do me a special favor. You have given me some land in the Negev Desert. Give me springs of water also."" So Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs." 
Judges1:16 Moses' father-in-law was a Kenite. His family went up from Jericho. They went up with the people of Judah to the Desert of Judah. They went there to live among its people. Those people were living in the Negev Desert near Arad. Jericho was also known as The City of Palm Trees. 
Judges1:17 The men of Judah went with their fellow Israelites, the men of Simeon. They attacked the people of Canaan who were living in Zephath. They set the city apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. That's why the city was called Hormah." 
Judges1:18 The men of Judah took Gaza, Ashkelon and Ekron. They also took the territory that was around each of those cities." 
Judges1:19 The Lord was with the men of Judah. They took over the central hill country. But they weren't able to drive the people out of the flatlands. That's because those people used chariots that had some iron parts. 
Judges1:20 Moses had promised to give Hebron to Caleb. So Hebron was given to Caleb. He drove the three sons of Anak out of it. 
Judges1:21 But the people of Benjamin failed to drive out the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem. So they live there with the people of Benjamin to this very day. 
Judges1:22 The men of Joseph attacked Bethel. The Lord was with them. 
Judges1:23 They sent men to Bethel to check it out. It used to be called Luz. 
Judges1:24 Those who were sent saw a man coming out of the city. They said to him, ""Show us how to get into the city. If you do, we'll see that you are treated well.""" 
Judges1:25 So he showed them how to get in. The men of Joseph killed the people in the city with their swords. But they spared the man from Bethel. They also spared his whole family. 
Judges1:26 Then he went to the land of the Hittites. He built a city there. He called it Luz. That's still its name to this very day. 
Judges1:27 But the tribe of Manasseh didn't drive out the people of Beth Shan. They didn't drive out the people of Taanach, Dor, Ibleam and Megiddo. And they didn't drive out the people of the settlements that are around those cities either. That's because the people of Canaan had made up their minds to continue living in that land." 
Judges1:28 Later, Israel became stronger. Then they forced the people of Canaan to work hard for them. But Israel never drove them out completely." 
Judges1:29 The tribe of Ephraim didn't drive out the Canaanites who were living in Gezer. So they continued to live there among them. 
Judges1:30 The tribe of Zebulun didn't drive out the Canaanites who were living in Kitron and Nahalol. So they remained among them. But Zebulun forced the Canaanites to work hard for them. 
Judges1:31 The tribe of Asher didn't drive out the people who were living in Acco and Sidon. They didn't drive out the people of Ahlab, Aczib, Helbah, Aphek and Rehob." 
Judges1:32 So the people of Asher lived among the Canaanites who were in the land. 
Judges1:33 The tribe of Naphtali didn't drive out the people who were living in Beth Shemesh and Beth Anath. So the people of Naphtali lived among the Canaanites who were in the land. The people of Beth Shemesh and Beth Anath were forced to work hard for them. 
Judges1:34 The Amorites made the people of Dan stay in the central hill country. They didn't let them come down into the flatlands. 
Judges1:35 The Amorites made up their minds to stay in Mount Heres. They also stayed in Aijalon and Shaalbim. But the power of the tribes of Joseph grew. Then the Amorites were forced to work hard for them. 
Judges1:36 The border of the Amorites started at Scorpion Pass. It went to Sela and even past it. 
Judges2:1 The angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bokim. There he spoke to the people of Israel. I brought you up out of Egypt,"" he said. ""I led you into this land. It is the land I promised with an oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I said, 'I will never break the covenant I made with you." 
Judges2:2 So you must not make a covenant with the people of this land. Instead, you must tear down their altars.' ""But you have disobeyed me. Why did you do it?" 
Judges2:3 I have something to tell you. I will not drive those people out to make room for you. They will be like thorns in your sides. Their gods will be a trap to you. 
Judges2:4 The angel of the Lord spoke those things to all of the people of Israel. Then the people began to sob out loud. 
Judges2:5 So that place was called Bokim. The people offered sacrifices to the Lord there. 
Judges2:6 Joshua sent the people of Israel away. Then they went to take over the land. All of them went to their own shares of land. 
Judges2:6 Joshua sent the people of Israel away. Then they went to take over the land. All of them went to their own shares of land. 
Judges2:7 The people served the Lord as long as Joshua lived. They also served him as long as the elders lived. Those were the elders who lived longer than Joshua did. They had seen all of the great things the Lord had done for Israel. 
Judges2:7 The people served the Lord as long as Joshua lived. They also served him as long as the elders lived. Those were the elders who lived longer than Joshua did. They had seen all of the great things the Lord had done for Israel. 
Judges2:8 Joshua, the servant of the Lord, died. He was the son of Nun. He was 110 years old when he died." 
Judges2:8 Joshua, the servant of the Lord, died. He was the son of Nun. He was 110 years old when he died." 
Judges2:9 His people buried his body on his own property at Timnath Heres. It's north of Mount Gaash in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges2:10 All of the people of Joshua's time joined the members of their families who had already died. Then those who were born after them grew up. They didn't know the Lord. They didn't know what he had done for Israel. 
Judges2:10 All of the people of Joshua's time joined the members of their families who had already died. Then those who were born after them grew up. They didn't know the Lord. They didn't know what he had done for Israel. 
Judges2:11 The people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. They served the gods that were named after Baal. 
Judges2:12 They deserted the Lord, the God of their people. He had brought them out of Egypt. But now the people of Israel followed other gods and worshiped them. They served the gods of the nations that were around them. They made the Lord angry" 
Judges2:13 because they deserted him. They served Baal. They also served the goddesses that were named after Ashtoreth. 
Judges2:14 The Lord became angry with Israel. So he handed them over to robbers. The robbers stole everything from them. He gave them over to their enemies who were all around them. Israel wasn't able to fight against them anymore and win. 
Judges2:15 When Israel went out to fight, the Lord's power was against them. He let their enemies win the battle over them. The Lord had warned them with an oath that it would happen. And now they were suffering terribly." 
Judges2:16 Then the Lord gave them leaders. The leaders saved them from the power of those robbers. 
Judges2:17 But the people wouldn't listen to their leaders. They weren't faithful to the Lord. They joined themselves to other gods and worshiped them. They didn't obey the Lord's commands as their people before them had done. They quickly turned away from the path their people had taken. 
Judges2:18 When the Lord gave them a leader, he was with that leader. He saved the people from the power of their enemies. He did it as long as the leader lived. He was very sorry for the people. They groaned because of what their enemies did to them. The enemies beat them down. They treated them badly." 
Judges2:19 But when the leader died, the people returned to their evil ways. The things they did were even more sinful than the things their people before them had done. They followed other gods. They served them. They worshiped them. They refused to give up their evil practices. They wouldn't change their stubborn ways." 
Judges2:20 So the Lord's anger burned against the people of Israel. He said, ""This nation has broken my covenant. I made it with their people of long ago. But this nation has not listened to me." 
Judges2:21 Joshua left some nations in the land when he died. I will not drive those nations out to make room for you anymore. 
Judges2:21 Joshua left some nations in the land when he died. I will not drive those nations out to make room for you anymore. 
Judges2:22 I will use them to put Israel to the test. I will see whether Israel will live the way I want them to. I will see whether they will follow my path, just as their people did long ago.""" 
Judges2:23 The Lord had let those nations remain in the land. He didn't drive them out right away. He didn't hand them over to Joshua. 
Judges2:23 The Lord had let those nations remain in the land. He didn't drive them out right away. He didn't hand them over to Joshua. 
Judges3:1 The Lord left some nations in the land. He left them there in order to put the people of Israel to the test. He did it for all those who hadn't lived through any of the wars in Canaan. 
Judges3:2 He wanted to teach the men in Israel who had never been in battle before. He wanted them to learn how to fight. 
Judges3:3 So he left the five rulers of the Philistines. He left the people of Canaan and the people of Sidon. He left the Hivites who were living in the Lebanon mountains. They lived in the area that was between Mount Baal Hermon and Lebo Hamath. 
Judges3:4 The Lord left those nations where they were in order to put Israel to the test. He wanted to see whether they would obey his commands. He had given those commands through Moses to their people of long ago. 
Judges3:5 So the people of Israel lived among the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
Judges3:6 They got married to the daughters of those people. They gave their own daughters to the sons of those people. And they served the gods of those people. 
Judges3:7 The people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. They forgot the Lord their God. They served the gods that were named after Baal. They also served the goddesses that were named after Asherah. 
Judges3:8 So the Lord's anger burned against Israel. He gave them over to the power of Cushan-Rishathaim. He was the king of Aram Naharaim. For eight years Israel was under his rule. 
Judges3:9 They cried out to the Lord. Then he gave them a man to save them. His name was Othniel, the son of Kenaz. He was Caleb's younger brother." 
Judges3:10 The Spirit of the Lord came on Othniel. So he became Israel's leader. He went to war. The Lord handed Cushan-Rishathaim, the king of Aram, over to him. Othniel overpowered him." 
Judges3:11 So the land was at peace for 40 years. Then Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died." 
Judges3:12 Once again the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. Because they did that, the Lord gave Eglon power over Israel. Eglon was the king of Moab." 
Judges3:13 He got the Ammonites and Amalekites to join him. All of them came and attacked Israel. They took over Jericho. Jericho was also known as The City of Palm Trees. 
Judges3:14 For 18 years the people of Israel were under the rule of Eglon, the king of Moab." 
Judges3:15 Again the people of Israel cried out to the Lord. Then he gave them a man to save them. His name was Ehud, the son of Gera. Ehud was left-handed. He was from the tribe of Benjamin. The people of Israel sent Ehud to Eglon, the king of Moab. They sent him to give the king what he required them to bring him." 
Judges3:16 Ehud had made a sword that had two edges. It was about a foot and a half long. He tied it to his right leg under his clothes. 
Judges3:17 Eglon, the king of Moab, was a very fat man. Ehud gave him the gift he had brought." 
Judges3:18 After that, he sent away those who had carried it." 
Judges3:19 At the place where some statues of gods stood near Gilgal, Ehud turned back. He said, ""King Eglon, I have a secret message for you."" The king said, ""I want everyone to be quiet."" And all of his attendants left him." 
Judges3:20 Then Ehud approached him. King Eglon was sitting alone in the upstairs room of his summer palace. Ehud said, ""I have a message from God for you."" So the king got up from his seat." 
Judges3:21 Then Ehud reached out his left hand. He pulled out the sword that was tied to his right leg. He stuck it into the king's stomach. 
Judges3:22 Even the handle sank in after the blade. The blade came right out the king's back. Ehud didn't pull the sword out. And the fat closed over it. 
Judges3:23 Ehud went out to the porch. He shut the doors of the upstairs room behind him. Then he locked them. 
Judges3:24 After he had gone, the servants came. They found the doors of the upstairs room locked. They said, ""Eglon must be going to the toilet in the inside room of the house.""" 
Judges3:25 They waited for a long time. They waited so long they became worried. But the king still didn't open the doors of the room. So they took a key and unlocked them. There they saw their king. He had fallen to the floor. He was dead. 
Judges3:26 While Eglon's servants had been waiting, Ehud had gotten away. He passed by the statues of gods and escaped to Seirah." 
Judges3:27 There in the hill country of Ephraim he blew a trumpet. Then he led the people of Israel down from the hills. 
Judges3:28 Follow me,"" Ehud ordered. ""The Lord has handed your enemy Moab over to you."" So they followed him down. They took over the only places where people could go across the Jordan River to get to Moab. They didn't let anyone go across." 
Judges3:29 At that time they struck down about 10,000 men of Moab. All of those men were strong and powerful. But not even one escaped." 
Judges3:30 That day Moab was brought under the rule of Israel. So the land was at peace for 80 years. 
Judges3:31 After Ehud, Shamgar became the next leader. He was the son of Anath. He struck down 600 Philistines with a large, pointed stick that was used to drive oxen. He saved Israel too." 
Judges4:1 After Ehud died, the people of Israel once again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord." 
Judges4:2 So the Lord gave them over to the power of Jabin. He was a king in Canaan. He ruled in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera. Sisera lived in Harosheth Haggoyim. 
Judges4:3 Jabin used 900 chariots that had some iron parts. He treated the people of Israel very badly for 20 years. So they cried out to the Lord for help. 
Judges4:4 Deborah was a prophet. She was the wife of Lappidoth. She was leading Israel at that time. 
Judges4:5 Under The Palm Tree of Deborah she served the people as their judge. That place was between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim. The people of Israel came to her there. They came to have her decide cases for them. She settled matters between them. 
Judges4:6 Deborah sent for Barak. He was the son of Abinoam. Barak was from Kedesh in the land of Naphtali. Deborah said to Barak, ""The Lord, the God of Israel, is giving you a command. He says, 'Go! Take 10,000 men from the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun with you. Then lead the way to Mount Tabor." 
Judges4:7 I will draw Sisera into a trap. He is the commander of Jabin's army. I will bring him, his chariots and his troops to the Kishon River. There I will hand him over to you.' """ 
Judges4:8 Barak said to her, ""If you go with me, I'll go. But if you don't go with me, I won't go.""" 
Judges4:9 All right,"" Deborah said. ""I'll go with you. But because of the way you are doing this, you won't receive any honor. The Lord will hand Sisera over to a woman."" So Deborah went to Kedesh with Barak." 
Judges4:10 There he sent for Zebulun and Naphtali. And 10,000 men followed him. Deborah also went with him." 
Judges4:11 Heber, the Kenite, had left the other Kenites. They came from the family line of Hobab. He was the brother-in-law of Moses. Heber set up his tent by the large tree in Zaanannim near Kedesh." 
Judges4:12 Sisera was told that Barak, the son of Abinoam, had gone up to Mount Tabor." 
Judges4:13 So Sisera gathered together his 900 chariots that had some iron parts. He also gathered all of his men together. He brought them from Harosheth Haggoyim to the Kishon River. 
Judges4:14 Then Deborah said to Barak, ""Go! Today the Lord will hand Sisera over to you. Hasn't the Lord gone ahead of you?"" So Barak went down Mount Tabor. His 10,000 men followed him." 
Judges4:15 As Barak's men marched out, the Lord drove Sisera away from the field of battle. He scattered all of Sisera's chariots. Barak's men struck down Sisera's army with their swords. Sisera left his chariot behind. He ran away on foot." 
Judges4:16 But Barak chased Sisera's chariots and army. He chased them all the way to Harosheth Haggoyim. All of Sisera's men were killed with swords. Not even one was left. 
Judges4:17 But Sisera ran away on foot. He ran to the tent of Jael. She was the wife of Heber, the Kenite. Sisera ran there because Heber's family was friendly toward Jabin, the king of Hazor." 
Judges4:18 Jael went out to meet Sisera. Come in, sir,"" she said. ""Come right in. Don't be afraid."" So he entered her tent. Then she covered him up." 
Judges4:19 I'm thirsty,"" he said. ""Please give me some water."" So Jael opened a bottle of milk. The bottle was made out of animal skin. She gave him a drink of milk. Then she covered him up again." 
Judges4:20 Stand in the doorway of the tent,"" he told her. ""Someone might come by and ask you, 'Is anyone here?' If that happens, say 'No.' """ 
Judges4:21 But Heber's wife Jael picked up a tent stake and a hammer. She went quietly over to Sisera. He was lying there, fast asleep. He was very tired. She drove the stake through his head right into the ground. So he died." 
Judges4:22 Barak came by because he was chasing Sisera. Jael went out to meet him. Come right in,"" she said. ""I'll show you the man you are looking for."" So he went in with her. Sisera was lying there with the stake through his head. He was dead." 
Judges4:23 On that day God brought Jabin under Israel's control. He was a king in Canaan. 
Judges4:24 Israel's power grew stronger and stronger against Jabin, a king in Canaan. They became so strong that they destroyed him." 
Judges5:1 On that day Deborah and Barak sang a song. Barak was the son of Abinoam. Here is what Deborah and Barak sang. 
Judges5:2 The princes in Israel lead the way. The people follow them just because they want to. Praise the Lord! 
Judges5:3 Kings, hear this! Rulers, listen! I will sing to the Lord. I will sing. I will make music to the Lord. He is the God of Israel." 
Judges5:4 Lord, you went out from Mount Seir. You marched out from the land of Edom. The earth shook. The heavens poured. The clouds poured down their water." 
Judges5:5 The mountains shook because of the Lord. He was at Mount Sinai. They shook because of the Lord. He is the God of Israel. 
Judges5:6 The roads were deserted. So travelers used the winding paths. That happened in the days of Shamgar, the son of Anath. It happened in the days of Jael." 
Judges5:7 Life in the villages of Israel stopped. It stopped until I, Deborah, came. I came as a mother in Israel." 
Judges5:8 The people chose new gods. Then war came to the city gates. But no shields or spears were seen anywhere. There weren't any among 40,000 men in Israel." 
Judges5:9 My heart is with the princes in Israel. It's with the people who follow them just because they want to. Praise the Lord! 
Judges5:10 Some of you ride on white donkeys. Some of you sit on your saddle blankets. Some of you walk along the road. Think about 
Judges5:11 the voices of the singers at the watering places. They sing about the right things the Lord does. They sing about the right things his warriors in Israel do. The people of the Lord went down to the city gates. 
Judges5:12 'Wake up, Deborah! Wake up!' they said. 'Wake up! Wake up! Begin to sing! Barak, get up! Son of Abinoam, capture your prisoners!'" 
Judges5:13 Then the people who were left came down to the nobles. The people of the Lord came to me against the powerful enemy. 
Judges5:14 Some came from the part of Ephraim where some Amalekites lived. Benjamin was with the people who followed Ephraim. Captains came down from Makir. Those who rule like commanders came down from Zebulun. 
Judges5:15 The princes of Issachar were with Deborah. The men of Issachar were with Barak. They rushed behind him into the valley. In the territories of Reuben, men looked deeply into their hearts." 
Judges5:16 Why did they stay among the campfires? Why did they stay to hear shepherds whistling for the flocks? In the territories of Reuben, men looked deeply into their hearts." 
Judges5:17 Gilead stayed east of the Jordan River. Why did Dan stay near the ships? The men of Asher remained on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. They stayed in their safe harbors. 
Judges5:18 The people of Zebulun put their very lives in danger. So did Naphtali on the hills in the open country. 
Judges5:19 Kings came and fought. The kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the streams of Megiddo. But they didn't carry any silver away. They didn't take anything at all. 
Judges5:20 From the heavens the stars fought. From the sky they fought against Sisera. 
Judges5:21 The Kishon River swept them away. The Kishon is a very old river. My spirit, march on! Be strong!" 
Judges5:22 The hoofs of the horses pounded like thunder. The powerful horses of our enemies galloped away. 
Judges5:23 'Let Meroz be cursed,' said the angel of the Lord. 'Let bitter curses fall on its people. They did not come to help the Lord. They did not come to help him against our powerful enemies.'" 
Judges5:24 May Jael be the most blessed woman of all. May the wife of the Kenite Heber be blessed. May she be the most blessed woman of all those who live in tents. 
Judges5:25 Sisera asked for water. She gave him milk. In a bowl that was fit for nobles she brought him buttermilk. 
Judges5:26 Her hand reached out for a tent stake. Her right hand reached for a hammer. She hit Sisera. She crushed his head. She drove the stake right through his head. 
Judges5:27 He sank down. He fell at her feet. He was lying there. At her feet he sank down. He fell. He fell where he sank down. That's where he died. 
Judges5:28 Sisera's mother looked out through the window. From behind the wooden screen she cried out. 'Why is his chariot taking so long to get here?' she said. 'Why can't I hear the noise of his chariots yet?' 
Judges5:29 Her wisest ladies answer her. And here's what she keeps saying to herself. 
Judges5:30 She says, 'They must be finding riches to bring back. They must be dividing them up. Each man is getting a woman or two. They are giving colorful clothes to Sisera. The clothes are very beautiful. He will bring some for me to wear. The men must be finding many things to bring home.'" 
Judges5:31 Lord, may all of your enemies be destroyed. But may those who love you be like the morning sun. May they be like the sun when it shines the brightest."" So the land was at peace for 40 years." 
Judges6:1 Once again the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. So for seven years he handed them over to the people of Midian. 
Judges6:2 The Midianites treated the people of Israel very badly. That's why they made hiding places for themselves. They hid in holes in the mountains. They also hid in caves and in other safe places. 
Judges6:3 Each year the people planted their crops. When they did, the Midianites came into the country and attacked it. So did the Amalekites and other tribes from the east." 
Judges6:4 They camped on the land. They destroyed the crops all the way to Gaza. They didn't spare any living thing for Israel. They didn't spare sheep or cattle or donkeys. 
Judges6:5 The Midianites came up with their livestock and tents. They came like huge numbers of locusts. It was impossible to count all of those men and their camels. They came into the land to destroy it. 
Judges6:6 Midian made the people of Israel very poor. So they cried out to the Lord for help. 
Judges6:7 They cried out to the Lord because of what Midian had done. 
Judges6:8 So he sent a prophet to them. The prophet said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'I brought you up out of Egypt. That is the land where you were slaves." 
Judges6:9 I saved you from the power of Egypt. I saved you from all those who were beating you down. I drove the people of Canaan out to make room for you. I gave you their land. 
Judges6:10  'I said to you, ""I am the Lord your God. You are now living in the land of the Amorites. Do not worship their gods."" But you have not listened to me.' """ 
Judges6:11 The angel of the Lord came. He sat down under an oak tree in Ophrah. The tree belonged to Joash. He was from the family line of Abiezer. Gideon was threshing wheat in a winepress at Ophrah. He was the son of Joash. Gideon was threshing in a winepress to hide the wheat from the Midianites. 
Judges6:12 The angel of the Lord appeared to Gideon. He said, ""Mighty warrior, the Lord is with you.""" 
Judges6:13 But sir,"" Gideon replied, ""you say the Lord is with us. Then why has all of this happened to us? Where are all of the wonderful things he has done? Our parents told us about them. They said, 'Didn't the Lord bring us up out of Egypt?' But now the Lord has deserted us. He has handed us over to Midian.""" 
Judges6:14 The Lord turned to Gideon. He said to him, ""You are strong. Go and save Israel from the power of Midian. I am sending you.""" 
Judges6:15 But Lord,"" Gideon asked, ""how can I possibly save Israel? My family group is the weakest in the tribe of Manasseh. And I'm the least important member of my family.""" 
Judges6:16 The Lord answered, ""I will be with you. So you will strike down the men of Midian all at one time.""" 
Judges6:17 Gideon replied, ""If you are pleased with me, give me a special sign. Then I'll know that it's really you talking to me." 
Judges6:18 Please don't go away until I come back. I'll bring my offering and set it down in front of you. The Lord said, ""I will wait until you return.""" 
Judges6:19 Gideon went and prepared a young goat. From more than half a bushel of flour he made bread without using yeast. He put the meat in a basket. In a pot he put soup that was made from the meat. Then he brought all of it and offered it to the Lord under the oak tree. 
Judges6:20 The angel of God spoke to Gideon. He said, ""Take the meat and the bread. Place them on this rock. Then pour out the soup."" So Gideon did it." 
Judges6:21 The angel of the Lord had a wooden staff in his hand. With the tip of his staff he touched the meat and the bread. Fire blazed out of the rock. It burned up the meat and the bread. Then the angel of the Lord disappeared. 
Judges6:22 Gideon realized it was the angel of the Lord. He cried out, ""Lord and King, I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face!""" 
Judges6:23 But the Lord said to him, ""May peace be with you! Do not be afraid. You are not going to die.""" 
Judges6:24 So Gideon built an altar to honor the Lord there. He called it The Lord Is Peace. It still stands in Ophrah to this very day. Ophrah is in the territory that belongs to the family line of Abiezer. 
Judges6:25 That same night the Lord spoke to Gideon. He said, ""Get the second bull from your father's herd. Get the one that is seven years old. Tear down the altar your father built in honor of Baal. Cut down the pole that is beside it. The pole is used to worship the goddess Asherah." 
Judges6:26 Then build the right kind of altar. Build it in honor of the Lord your God. Build it on top of this hill. Then use the wood from the Asherah pole you cut down. Sacrifice the second bull as a burnt offering. 
Judges6:27 So Gideon went and got ten of his servants. He did just as the Lord had told him. But he was afraid of his family. He was also afraid of the men in the town. So he did everything at night instead of during the day. 
Judges6:28 In the morning the men in the town got up. They saw that Baal's altar had been torn down. The Asherah pole that was beside it had been cut down. And the second bull had been sacrificed on the new altar that had been built. 
Judges6:29 They asked each other, ""Who did this?"" They looked into the matter carefully. Someone told them, ""Gideon, the son of Joash, did it.""" 
Judges6:30 The men in the town spoke to Joash. They ordered him, ""Bring your son out here. He must die. He has torn down Baal's altar. He has cut down the Asherah pole that was beside it.""" 
Judges6:31 But Joash replied to the angry crowd that was around him. He said, ""Are you going to stand up for Baal? Are you trying to save him? Those who stand up for him will be put to death by morning! Is Baal really a god? If he is, he can stand up for himself when someone tears down his altar.""" 
Judges6:32 That's why Gideon was called Jerub-Baal that day. He said, ""Let Baal take his stand against him."" Gideon had torn down Baal's altar." 
Judges6:33 All of the Midianites and Amalekites gathered their armies together. Other tribes from the east joined them. All of them went across the Jordan River. They camped in the Valley of Jezreel. 
Judges6:34 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Gideon. So Gideon blew the trumpet to send for the men of Abiezer. He told them to follow him. 
Judges6:35 He sent messengers all through Manasseh. He called for the men of Manasseh to fight. He also sent messengers to the men of Asher, Zebulun and Naphtali. So all of those men went up to join the others." 
Judges6:36 Gideon said to God, ""You promised you would use me to save Israel." 
Judges6:37 Please do something for me. I'll put a piece of wool on the threshing floor. Suppose dew is only on the wool tomorrow morning. And suppose the ground all around it is dry. Then I will know that you will use me to save Israel. I'll know that your promise will come true. 
Judges6:38 And that's what happened. Gideon got up early the next day. He squeezed the dew out of the wool. The water filled a bowl. 
Judges6:39 Then Gideon said to God, ""Don't let your anger burn against me. Let me ask you for just one more thing. Let me use the wool for one more test. This time make the wool dry. And cover the ground with dew.""" 
Judges6:40 So that night God did it. Only the wool was dry. The ground all around it was covered with dew. 
Judges7:1 Early in the morning Jerub-Baal and all of his men camped at the spring of Harod. Jerub-Baal was another name for Gideon. The camp of Midian was north of Gideon's camp. It was in the valley near the hill of Moreh. 
Judges7:2 The Lord spoke to Gideon. He said, ""I want to hand Midian over to you. But you have too many men for me to do that. I do not want Israel to brag that their own strength has saved them." 
Judges7:3 So here is what I want you to announce to your men. Tell them, 'Those who tremble with fear can turn back. They can leave Mount Gilead.' "" So 22,000 men left. But 10,000 remained." 
Judges7:4 The Lord spoke to Gideon again. He said, ""There are still too many men. So take them down to the water. I will sort them out for you there. If I say, 'This one will go with you,' he will go. But if I say, 'That one will not go with you,' he will not go.""" 
Judges7:5 So Gideon took the men down to the water. There the Lord spoke to him. He said, ""Some men will drink the way dogs do. They will lap up the water with their tongues. Separate them from those who get down on their knees to drink.""" 
Judges7:6 Three hundred men lapped up the water. They brought it up to their mouths with their hands. All of the rest got down on their knees to drink. 
Judges7:7 The Lord spoke to Gideon. He said, ""With the help of the 300 men who lapped up the water I will save you. I will hand the Midianites over to you. Let all of the other men go home.""" 
Judges7:8 So Gideon sent the rest of the men of Israel to their tents. But he kept the 300 men. They took over the supplies and trumpets the others had left. The Midianites had set up their camp in the valley below where Gideon was. 
Judges7:9 During that night the Lord spoke to Gideon. He said, ""Get up. Go down against the camp. I am going to hand it over to you." 
Judges7:10 But what if you are afraid to attack? Then go down to the camp with your servant Purah. 
Judges7:11 Listen to what they are saying. After that, you will not be afraid to attack the camp."" So Gideon and his servant Purah went down to the edge of the camp." 
Judges7:12 The Midianites had settled in the valley. So had the Amalekites and all of the other tribes from the east. There were so many of them that they looked like huge numbers of locusts. Like the grains of sand on the seashore, their camels couldn't be counted." 
Judges7:13 Gideon arrived just as a man was telling a friend about his dream. I had a dream,"" he was saying. ""A round loaf of barley bread came rolling into the camp of Midian. It hit a tent with great force. The tent turned over and fell down flat.""" 
Judges7:14 His friend replied, ""That can only be the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash. Gideon is from Israel. God has handed the Midianites over to him. He has given him the whole camp.""" 
Judges7:15 Gideon heard the man explain what the dream meant. Then Gideon worshiped God. He returned to the camp of Israel. He called out, ""Get up! The Lord has handed the Midianites over to you.""" 
Judges7:16 Gideon separated the 300 men into three companies. He put a trumpet and an empty jar into the hands of each man. And he put a torch inside each jar. 
Judges7:17 Watch me,"" he told them. ""Do what I do. I'll go to the edge of the enemy camp. Then do exactly as I do." 
Judges7:18 I and everyone who is with me will blow our trumpets. Then blow your trumpets from your positions all around the camp. And shout the battle cry, 'For the Lord and for Gideon!' """ 
Judges7:19 Gideon and the 100 men who were with him reached the edge of the enemy camp. It was about ten o'clock at night. It was just after the guard had been changed. Gideon and his men blew their trumpets. They broke the jars that were in their hands. 
Judges7:20 The three companies blew their trumpets. They smashed their jars. They held their torches in their left hands. They held in their right hands the trumpets they were going to blow. Then they shouted the battle cry, ""A sword for the Lord and for Gideon!""" 
Judges7:21 Each man stayed in his position around the camp. But all of the Midianites ran away in fear. They were crying out as they ran. 
Judges7:22 When the 300 trumpets were blown, the Lord caused all of the men in the enemy camp to start fighting each other. They attacked each other with their swords. The army ran away to Beth Shittah toward Zererah. They ran all the way to the border of Abel Meholah near Tabbath." 
Judges7:23 The men of Israel from the tribes of Naphtali, Asher and all of Manasseh were called out. They chased the Midianites." 
Judges7:24 Gideon sent messengers through the entire hill country of Ephraim. They said, ""Come on down against the Midianites. Take control of the waters of the Jordan River before they get there. Do it all the way to Beth Barah."" So all of the men of Ephraim were called out. They took control of the waters of the Jordan all the way to Beth Barah." 
Judges7:25 They also captured Oreb and Zeeb. Those men were two of the Midianite leaders. The men of Ephraim killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb. They killed Zeeb at the winepress of Zeeb. They chased the Midianites. And they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon. He was by the Jordan River. 
Judges8:1 The men of Ephraim spoke to Gideon. They asked, ""Why have you treated us like this? Why didn't you ask us to help you when you went out to fight against Midian?"" They spoke very sharply against Gideon." 
Judges8:2 But he answered them, ""What I've done isn't anything compared to what you have done. After Ephraim's grapes have been gathered, isn't what is left over better than all of the grapes that have been gathered from Abiezer's vines?" 
Judges8:3 God handed Oreb and Zeeb over to you. They were Midianite leaders. So what was I able to do compared to what you did? After Gideon had said that, they didn't feel angry with him anymore." 
Judges8:4 Gideon and his 300 men were very tired. But they kept on chasing their enemies. They came to the Jordan River and went across it. 
Judges8:5 Gideon spoke to the men of Succoth. He said, ""Give my troops some bread. They are worn out. And I'm still chasing Zebah and Zalmunna. They are the kings of Midian.""" 
Judges8:6 But the officials of Succoth objected. They said, ""Have you already killed Zebah and Zalmunna? Have you cut their hands off and brought them back to prove it? If you haven't, why should we give bread to your troops?""" 
Judges8:7 Gideon replied, ""The Lord will hand Zebah and Zalmunna over to me. When he does, I'll tear your skin with thorns from desert bushes.""" 
Judges8:8 From there Gideon went up to Peniel. He asked its men for the same thing. But they answered as the men of Succoth had. 
Judges8:9 So he said to the men of Peniel, ""I'll be back after I've won the battle. Then I'll tear down this tower.""" 
Judges8:10 Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor. They had an army of about 15,000 men. That's all that was left of the armies of the tribes from the east. About 120,000 men who carried swords had died in battle." 
Judges8:11 Gideon went up the trail the people of the desert had made. It ran east of Nobah and Jogbehah. He attacked the army by surprise. 
Judges8:12 Zebah and Zalmunna ran away. They were the two kings of Midian. Gideon chased them and captured them. He destroyed their whole army. 
Judges8:13 Then Gideon, the son of Joash, returned from the battle. He came back through the Pass of Heres." 
Judges8:14 He caught a young man from Succoth. He asked him about the elders of the town. The young man wrote down for him the names of Succoth's 77 officials. 
Judges8:15 Then Gideon came and spoke to the men of Succoth. He said, ""Here are Zebah and Zalmunna. You made fun of me because of them. You said, 'Have you already killed Zebah and Zalmunna? Have you cut their hands off and brought them back to prove it? If you haven't, why should we give bread to your tired men?' """ 
Judges8:16 Gideon went and got the elders of the town. Then he taught the men of Succoth a lesson. He tore their skin with thorns from desert bushes. 
Judges8:17 He also pulled down the tower at Peniel. He killed the men in the town. 
Judges8:18 Then he spoke to Zebah and Zalmunna. He asked, ""What were the men like that you killed at Tabor?"" ""Men like you,"" they answered. ""Each one walked as if he were a prince.""" 
Judges8:19 Gideon replied, ""Those were my brothers. They were the sons of my own mother. You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that if you had spared their lives, I wouldn't kill you.""" 
Judges8:20 Then Gideon turned to his oldest son Jether. He said, ""Kill them!"" But Jether didn't pull out his sword. He was only a boy. So he was afraid." 
Judges8:21 Zebah and Zalmunna said, ""Come on. Do it yourself. 'The older the man, the stronger he is.' "" So Gideon stepped forward and killed them. Then he took the moon-shaped necklaces off the necks of their camels." 
Judges8:22 The people of Israel spoke to Gideon. They said, ""Rule over us. We want you, your son and your grandson to be our rulers. You have saved us from the power of Midian.""" 
Judges8:23 But Gideon told them, ""I will not rule over you. My son won't rule over you either. The Lord will rule over you.""" 
Judges8:24 He continued, ""I do ask one thing. I want each of you to give me an earring. I'm talking about the earrings you took from your enemies."" It was the practice of the people in the family line of Ishmael to wear gold earrings." 
Judges8:25 The people of Israel said, ""We'll be glad to give them to you."" So they spread out a piece of clothing. Each man threw a ring on it from what he had taken." 
Judges8:26 The weight of the gold rings Gideon asked for was 43 pounds. That didn't include the moon-shaped necklaces the kings of Midian had worn. It didn't include their other necklaces or their purple clothes. And it didn't include the gold chains that had been on the necks of their camels. 
Judges8:27 Gideon made an object out of all of the gold. It looked like the linen apron the high priest of Israel wore. He placed it in Ophrah. That was his hometown. All of the people of Israel worshiped it there. They weren't faithful to the Lord. So the gold object became a trap to Gideon and his family. 
Judges8:28 Israel brought Midian under their control. Midian wasn't able to attack Israel anymore. So the land was at peace for 40 years. The peace lasted as long as Gideon was living. 
Judges8:29 Jerub-Baal, the son of Joash, went back home to live. Jerub-Baal was another name for Gideon." 
Judges8:30 He had 70 sons of his own. That's because he had a lot of wives. 
Judges8:31 And he had a concubine who lived in Shechem. She also had a son by him. Gideon named that son Abimelech. 
Judges8:32 Gideon, the son of Joash, died when he was very old. His body was buried in the tomb of his father Joash in Ophrah. Ophrah was in the territory that belonged to the family line of Abiezer." 
Judges8:33 As soon as Gideon had died, the people of Israel joined themselves to the gods that were named after Baal. Israel wasn't faithful to the Lord. They worshiped Baal-Berith as their god." 
Judges8:34 They forgot what the Lord their God had done for them. He had saved them from the power of their enemies who were all around them. 
Judges8:35 Jerub-Baal had done many good things for the people of Israel. But they weren't kind to his family. Jerub-Baal was another name for Gideon. 
Judges9:1 Abimelech was the son of Jerub-Baal. He went to his mother's brothers in Shechem. He spoke to them and to all of the members of his mother's family group. He said," 
Judges9:2 Speak to all of the citizens of Shechem. Tell them, 'You can have all 70 of Jerub-Baal's sons rule over you. Or you can have just one man rule over you. Which would you rather have?' Remember, I'm your own flesh and blood.""" 
Judges9:3 The brothers told all of that to the citizens of Shechem. Then the people decided to follow Abimelech. They said, ""He's related to us.""" 
Judges9:4 They gave him 28 ounces of silver. They had taken it from the temple of the god Baal-Berith. Abimelech used it to hire some men. They were wild. They weren't good for anything. They became his followers. 
Judges9:5 Abimelech went to his father's home in Ophrah. There on a big rock he murdered his 70 brothers. All of them were the sons of Jerub-Baal. But Jotham escaped by hiding. He was Jerub-Baal's youngest son. 
Judges9:6 All of the citizens of Shechem and Beth Millo came together. They gathered at the stone pillar that was beside the large tree in Shechem. They wanted to crown Abimelech as their king. 
Judges9:7 Jotham was told about it. So he climbed up on top of Mount Gerizim. He shouted down to them, ""Citizens of Shechem! Listen to me! Then God will listen to you." 
Judges9:8 One day the trees went out to anoint a king for themselves. They said to an olive tree, 'Be our king.'" 
Judges9:9 But the olive tree answered, 'Should I give up my olive oil? It's used to honor gods and people alike. Should I give that up just to rule over the trees?'" 
Judges9:10 Next, the trees spoke to a fig tree. They said, 'Come and be our king.'" 
Judges9:11 But the fig tree replied, 'Should I give up my fruit? It's so good and sweet. Should I give that up just to rule over the trees?'" 
Judges9:12 Then the trees spoke to a vine. They said, 'Come and be our king.'" 
Judges9:13 But the vine answered, 'Should I give up my wine? It cheers up gods and people alike. Should I give that up just to rule over the trees?'" 
Judges9:14 Finally, all of the trees spoke to a bush that had thorns. They said, 'Come and be our king.'" 
Judges9:15 The bush spoke to the trees. It said, 'Do you really want to anoint me as king over you? If you do, come and rest in my shade. But if you don't, I will destroy you! Fire will come out of me and burn up the cedar trees of Lebanon!'" 
Judges9:16 Did you act in an honest way when you made Abimelech your king? Did you really do the right thing? Have you been fair to Jerub-Baal and his family? Have you given him the honor he's worthy of? 
Judges9:17 Remember that my father fought for you. He put his life in danger for you. He saved you from the power of Midian. 
Judges9:18 But today you have turned against my father's family. You have murdered his 70 sons on a big rock. Abimelech is only the son of my father's female slave. But you have made him king over the citizens of Shechem. You have done that because he's related to you. 
Judges9:19 Have you citizens of Shechem and Beth Millo acted in an honest way toward Jerub-Baal? Have you done the right thing to his family today? If you have, may you be happy with Abimelech! And may he be happy with you!" 
Judges9:20 But if you haven't, let fire come out from Abimelech and burn you up! And let fire come out from you and burn Abimelech up!""" 
Judges9:21 Then Jotham ran away. He escaped to Beer. He lived there because he was afraid of his brother Abimelech. 
Judges9:22 Abimelech ruled over Israel for three years. 
Judges9:23 Then God sent an evil spirit to cause trouble between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem. They turned against Abimelech. They decided not to follow him anymore. 
Judges9:24 God made that happen because of what Abimelech had done to Jerub-Baal's 70 sons. He had spilled their blood. God wanted to pay back their brother Abimelech for doing that. He also wanted to pay back the citizens of Shechem. They had helped Abimelech murder his brothers. 
Judges9:25 The citizens of Shechem opposed Abimelech. So they hid some men on top of the hills. They wanted them to attack and rob everyone who passed by. Abimelech was told about it. 
Judges9:26 Gaal and his relatives moved into Shechem. He was the son of Ebed. The citizens of Shechem put their trust in Gaal. 
Judges9:27 The people of Shechem went out into the fields. They gathered the grapes. They pressed the juice out of them by stomping on them. Then they held a feast in the temple of their god. While they were eating and drinking, they called down curses on Abimelech." 
Judges9:28 Then Gaal, the son of Ebed, spoke up. ""Who is Abimelech?"" he said. ""And who is Shechem? Why should we be under Abimelech's rule? Isn't he Jerub-Baal's son? Isn't Zebul his helper? It would be better to serve the men of Hamor. He was the father of Shechem. So why should we serve Abimelech?" 
Judges9:29 I wish these people were under my command. Then I would get rid of him. I would say to him, 'Call out your whole army!' """ 
Judges9:30 Zebul was the governor of Shechem. He heard about what Gaal, the son of Ebed, had said. So he burned with anger." 
Judges9:31 Zebul sent messengers to Abimelech secretly. They said, ""Gaal, the son of Ebed, has come to Shechem. His relatives have come with him. They are stirring up the city against you." 
Judges9:32 So come with your men during the night. Hide in the fields and wait. 
Judges9:33 In the morning at sunrise, attack the city. Gaal and his men will come out against you. Then do what you can.""" 
Judges9:34 So Abimelech and all of his troops started out at night. They went into their hiding places near Shechem. Abimelech had separated them into four companies. 
Judges9:35 Gaal, the son of Ebed, had already gone out. He was standing at the entrance of the city gate. He had arrived there just as Abimelech and his troops came out of their hiding places." 
Judges9:36 Gaal saw them. He said to Zebul, ""Look! People are coming down from the tops of the mountains!"" Zebul replied, ""You are wrong. Those aren't people. They are just the shadows of the mountains.""" 
Judges9:37 But Gaal spoke up again. He said, ""Look! People are coming down from the center of the land. Another company is coming from the direction of the fortune tellers' tree.""" 
Judges9:38 Then Zebul said to Gaal, ""Where is your big talk now? You said, 'Who is Abimelech? Why should we be under his rule?' Aren't these the people you looked down on? Go out and fight against them!""" 
Judges9:39 So Gaal led the citizens out of Shechem. They fought against Abimelech. 
Judges9:40 He chased Gaal from the field of battle. Many men were wounded as they ran away. Abimelech chased them all the way to the entrance of the city gate. 
Judges9:41 He stayed in Arumah. Zebul drove Gaal and his relatives out of Shechem. 
Judges9:42 The next day the people of Shechem went out to work in the fields. Abimelech was told about it. 
Judges9:43 So he gathered his men together. He separated them into three companies. Then he hid them in the fields and told them to wait. When he saw the people coming out of the city, he got up to attack them." 
Judges9:44 Abimelech and the men who were with him ran forward. They placed themselves at the entrance of the city gate. Then the other two companies rushed over to the people who were in the fields. There they struck them down. 
Judges9:45 Abimelech kept up his attack against the city all day long. He didn't stop until he had captured it. Then he killed its people. He destroyed the city. He scattered salt on it to make sure that nothing would be able to grow there. 
Judges9:46 The citizens who were in the tower of Shechem heard about what was happening. So they went to the safest place in the temple of the god El-Berith. 
Judges9:47 Abimelech heard that they had gathered together there. 
Judges9:48 He and all of his men went up Mount Zalmon. He got an ax and cut off some branches. He carried them on his shoulders. He ordered the men who were with him to do the same thing. Quick! he said. Do what you have seen me do! 
Judges9:49 So all of the men cut branches and followed Abimelech. They piled them against the place where the people had gone for safety. Then they set the place on fire with the people inside. There were about 1,000 men and women in the tower of Shechem. All of them died." 
Judges9:50 Next, Abimelech went to Thebez. He surrounded it. Then he attacked it and captured it." 
Judges9:51 But inside the city there was a strong tower. All of the people in the city ran to it for safety. All of the men and women went into it. They locked themselves in. They climbed up on the roof of the tower. 
Judges9:52 Abimelech went to the tower and attacked it. He approached the entrance to the tower to set it on fire. 
Judges9:53 But a woman dropped a large millstone on him. It broke his head open. 
Judges9:54 He quickly called out to the man who was carrying his armor. He said, ""Pull out your sword and kill me. Then people can't say, 'A woman killed him.' "" So his servant stuck his sword through him. And Abimelech died." 
Judges9:55 When the people of Israel saw he was dead, they went home." 
Judges9:56 That's how God paid Abimelech back for the evil thing he had done to his father. He had murdered his 70 brothers. 
Judges9:57 God also made the men of Shechem pay for all of the evil things they had done. The curse of Jotham came down on them. He was the son of Jerub-Baal. 
Judges10:1 Tola rose up to save Israel. That happened after the time of Abimelech. Tola was from the tribe of Issachar. He was the son of Puah, who was the son of Dodo. Tola lived in Shamir. It's in the hill country of Ephraim." 
Judges10:2 Tola led Israel for 23 years. After he died, his body was buried in Shamir." 
Judges10:3 Jair became the leader after Tola. Jair was from the land of Gilead. He led Israel for 22 years. 
Judges10:4 He had 30 sons. They rode on 30 donkeys. They controlled 30 towns in Gilead. Those towns are called Havvoth Jair to this very day. 
Judges10:5 After Jair died, his body was buried in Kamon." 
Judges10:6 Once again the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. They served the gods that were named after Baal. They served the goddesses that were named after Ashtoreth. They worshiped the gods of Aram and Sidon. They served the gods of Moab and Ammon. They also worshiped the gods of the Philistines. The people of Israel deserted the Lord. They didn't serve him anymore. 
Judges10:7 So the Lord's anger burned against them. He handed them over to the Philistines and the Ammonites. 
Judges10:8 That year they broke Israel's power completely. They treated the people of Israel badly for 18 years. Those people lived east of the Jordan River. They lived in Gilead. That was the land of the Amorites. 
Judges10:9 The Ammonites also went across the Jordan. They crossed over to fight against Judah, Benjamin and the people of Ephraim. Israel was suffering terribly." 
Judges10:10 Then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord. They said, ""We have sinned against you. We have deserted our God. We have served the gods that are named after Baal.""" 
Judges10:11 The Lord replied, ""The Egyptians and Amorites beat you down. So did the Ammonites and Philistines." 
Judges10:12 And so did the Amalekites and the people of Sidon and Maon. Each time you cried out to me for help. And I saved you from their power. 
Judges10:13 But you have deserted me. You have served other gods. So I will not save you anymore. 
Judges10:14 Go and cry out to the gods you have chosen. Let them save you when you get into trouble! 
Judges10:15 But the people of Israel replied to the Lord. They said, ""We have sinned. Do to us what you think is best. But please save us now.""" 
Judges10:16 Then they got rid of the strange gods that were among them. They served the Lord. And he couldn't stand to see Israel suffer anymore. 
Judges10:17 The Ammonites were called together to fight. They camped in the land of Gilead. Then the men of Israel gathered together. They camped at the city of Mizpah. 
Judges10:18 The leaders of Gilead spoke to each other. They said, ""Who will lead the attack against the Ammonites? That man will be the ruler of all of the people who live in Gilead.""" 
Judges11:1 Jephthah was a mighty warrior. He was from the land of Gilead. His father's name was Gilead. Jephthah's mother was a prostitute. 
Judges11:2 Gilead's wife also had sons by him. When they had grown up, they drove Jephthah away. ""You aren't going to get any share of our family's property,"" they said. ""You are the son of another woman.""" 
Judges11:3 So Jephthah ran away from his brothers. He settled in the land of Tob. A group of men who weren't good for anything gathered around him there. And they followed him. 
Judges11:4 Some time later, the Ammonites went to war against Israel." 
Judges11:5 So the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah from the land of Tob. 
Judges11:6 Come with us,"" they said. ""Be our commander. Then we can fight against the Ammonites.""" 
Judges11:7 Jephthah said to them, ""Didn't you hate me? Didn't you drive me away from my father's house? Why are you coming to me only when you are in trouble?""" 
Judges11:8 The elders of Gilead replied to him. You are right,"" they said. ""That's why we're turning to you now. Come with us and fight against the Ammonites. Then you will be our leader. You will rule over everyone who lives in Gilead.""" 
Judges11:9 Jephthah said, ""Suppose you take me back to fight against the Ammonites. And suppose the Lord gives them over to me. Then will I really be your leader?""" 
Judges11:10 The elders of Gilead replied, ""The Lord is our witness. We'll certainly do as you say.""" 
Judges11:11 So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead. And the people made him their leader and commander. He went to Mizpah. There he repeated to the Lord everything he had said. 
Judges11:12 Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of Ammon. They asked, ""What do you have against us? Why have you attacked our country?""" 
Judges11:13 The king of Ammon answered Jephthah's messengers. He said, ""Israel came up out of Egypt. At that time they took my land away. They took all of the land that was between the Arnon River and the Jabbok River. It reached all the way to the Jordan River. Now give it back. Then there will be peace.""" 
Judges11:14 Jephthah sent messengers back to the king of Ammon. 
Judges11:15 They said, ""Here is what Jephthah says to you. Israel didn't take the land of Moab. They didn't take the land of Ammon." 
Judges11:16 When Israel came up out of Egypt, they went through the desert to the Red Sea. From there they went on to Kadesh." 
Judges11:17 Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom. They said, 'Please let us go through your country.' But the king of Edom wouldn't listen to them. ""They sent the same message to the king of Moab. But he refused too. So Israel stayed at Kadesh." 
Judges11:18 Next, they traveled through the desert. They traveled along the borders of the lands of Edom and Moab. They passed along the east side of the country of Moab. They camped on the other side of the Arnon River. They didn't enter the territory of Moab. The Arnon River was Moab's border." 
Judges11:19 Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon. He was the king of the Amorites. He ruled in Heshbon. They said to him, 'Let us pass through your country to our own land.'" 
Judges11:20 But Sihon didn't trust Israel to pass through his territory. Instead, he gathered all of his men together. They camped at Jahaz. And they fought against Israel." 
Judges11:21 Then the Lord, the God of Israel, handed Sihon and all of his men over to Israel. Israel won the battle over them. Amorites were living in the country at that time. And Israel took over all of their land." 
Judges11:22 They captured all of the land that was between the Arnon River and the Jabbok River. It reached from the desert all the way to the Jordan River. 
Judges11:23 The Lord, the God of Israel, has driven the Amorites out to make room for his people. So what right do you have to take it over?" 
Judges11:24 You will take what your god Chemosh gives you, won't you? In the same way, we will take over what the Lord our God has given us." 
Judges11:25 Are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor? Balak was the king of Moab. Did he ever argue with Israel? Did he ever fight against them?" 
Judges11:26 For 300 years Israel has been living in Heshbon and Aroer. They have been living in the settlements that are around those cities. They have also been living in all of the towns that are along the Arnon River. Why didn't you take those places back during that time? 
Judges11:27 I haven't done anything wrong to you. But you are doing something wrong to me. You have gone to war against me. The Lord is the Judge. So let him decide our case today. Let him settle matters between the people of Israel and the people of Ammon. 
Judges11:28 But the king of Ammon didn't pay any attention to the message Jephthah sent him. 
Judges11:29 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Jephthah. He went across the territories of Gilead and Manasseh. He passed through Mizpah in the land of Gilead. From there he attacked the people of Ammon. 
Judges11:30 Jephthah made a promise to the Lord. He said, ""Hand the Ammonites over to me." 
Judges11:31 If you do, here's what I'll do when I come back from winning the battle. Anything that comes out the door of my house to meet me will belong to you. I will sacrifice it as a burnt offering.""" 
Judges11:32 Then Jephthah went over to fight against the Ammonites. The Lord handed them over to him. 
Judges11:33 Jephthah destroyed 20 towns between Aroer and the area of Minnith. He destroyed them all the way to Abel Keramim. So Israel brought Ammon under their control. 
Judges11:34 Jephthah returned to his home in Mizpah. And guess who came out to meet him. It was his daughter! She was dancing to the music of tambourines. She was his only child. He didn't have any other sons or daughters. 
Judges11:35 When Jephthah saw her, he was so upset that he tore his clothes. He cried out, ""My daughter! You have filled me with trouble and sorrow. I've made a promise to the Lord. And I can't break it.""" 
Judges11:36 My father,"" she replied, ""you have given your word to the Lord. So do to me just what you promised to do. The Ammonites were your enemies. And the Lord has paid them back for what they did to you." 
Judges11:37 But please do one thing for me,"" she continued. ""Give me two months to wander around in the hills. Let me sob there with my friends. I want to do that because I'll never get married.""" 
Judges11:38 You can go,"" he said. He let her go for two months. She and her friends went into the hills. They were filled with sadness because she would never get married." 
Judges11:39 After the two months were over, she returned to her father. He did to her just what he had promised to do. And she was a virgin. So that became a practice in Israel." 
Judges11:40 Each year the young women of Israel go away for four days. They do it in honor of the daughter of Jephthah. He was from the land of Gilead. 
Judges12:1 The men of Ephraim called out their troops. The troops went across the Jordan River to Zaphon. When they arrived, they said to Jephthah, ""You went to fight against the Ammonites. Why didn't you ask us to go with you? We're going to burn down your house over your head.""" 
Judges12:2 Jephthah answered, ""I and my people were taking part in a great struggle. We were at war with the Ammonites. I asked you for help. But you didn't come to save me from their power." 
Judges12:3 I saw that you wouldn't help. So I put my own life in danger. I went across the Jordan to fight against the Ammonites. The Lord helped me win the battle over them. So why have you come up today to fight against me? 
Judges12:4 Then Jephthah called the men of Gilead together. They fought against Ephraim. The men of Gilead struck them down. The people of Ephraim had said, ""You people of Gilead are nothing but deserters from Ephraim and Manasseh.""" 
Judges12:5 The men of Gilead captured the places where people go across the Jordan River to get to Ephraim. Some men of Ephraim weren't killed in the battle. When they arrived at the river, they would say, ""Let us go across."" Then the men of Gilead would ask each one, ""Are you from Ephraim?"" Suppose he replied, ""No.""" 
Judges12:6 Then they would say, ""All right. Say 'Shibboleth.' "" If he said ""Sibboleth,"" the way he said the word would give him away. He couldn't say it correctly. So they would grab hold of him. Then they would kill him at one of the places where people go across the Jordan. At that time, 42,000 men of Ephraim were killed." 
Judges12:7 Jephthah led Israel for six years. Then he died. His body was buried in a town in Gilead. Jephthah was from the land of Gilead. 
Judges12:8 After Jephthah, Ibzan from Bethlehem led Israel." 
Judges12:9 He had 30 sons and 30 daughters. He gave his daughters to be married to men who were outside his family group. He brought in 30 young women to be married to his sons. Those women also came from outside his family group. Ibzan led Israel for seven years. 
Judges12:10 Then he died. His body was buried in Bethlehem. 
Judges12:11 After Ibzan, Elon led Israel. He was from the tribe of Zebulun. Elon led Israel for ten years." 
Judges12:12 Then he died. His body was buried in Aijalon. It was in the land of Zebulun. 
Judges12:13 After Elon, Abdon led Israel. Abdon was the son of Hillel. Abdon was from Pirathon." 
Judges12:14 He had 40 sons and 30 grandsons. They rode on 70 donkeys. He led Israel for eight years. 
Judges12:15 Then he died. His body was buried at Pirathon in Ephraim. Pirathon was in the hill country of the Amalekites. Abdon was the son of Hillel. 
Judges13:1 Once again the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. So the Lord handed them over to the Philistines for 40 years. 
Judges13:2 A certain man from Zorah was named Manoah. He was from the tribe of Dan. Manoah had a wife who wasn't able to have children. 
Judges13:3 The angel of the Lord appeared to Manoah's wife. He said, ""You are not able to have children. But you are going to become pregnant. You will have a baby boy." 
Judges13:4 Make sure you do not drink any kind of wine. Also make sure you do not eat anything that is 'unclean.' 
Judges13:5 You will become pregnant. You will have a son. He must not use a razor on his head. He must not cut his hair. That is because the boy will be a Nazirite. He will be set apart to God from the day he is born. He will begin to save Israel from the power of the Philistines. 
Judges13:6 Then the woman went to her husband. She told him, ""A man of God came to me. He looked like an angel of God. His appearance was so amazing that it filled me with great wonder. I didn't ask him where he came from. And he didn't tell me his name." 
Judges13:7 But he said to me, 'You will become pregnant. You will have a son. So do not drink any kind of wine. Do not eat anything that is ""unclean."" That is because the boy will be a Nazirite. He will belong to God in a special way from the day he is born until the day he dies.' """ 
Judges13:8 Then Manoah prayed to the Lord. He said, ""Lord, I beg you to let the man of God you sent to us come again. He told us we would have a son. We want the man of God to teach us how to bring up the boy.""" 
Judges13:9 God heard Manoah. And the angel of God came again to the woman. He came while she was out in the field. But her husband Manoah wasn't with her. 
Judges13:10 The woman hurried to her husband. She told him, ""He's here! The man who appeared to me the other day is here!""" 
Judges13:11 Manoah got up and followed his wife. When he came to the man, he spoke to him. He said, ""Are you the one who talked to my wife?"" ""I am,"" he replied." 
Judges13:12 So Manoah asked him, ""What will happen when your words come true? What rules should we follow for the boy's life and work?""" 
Judges13:13 The angel of the Lord answered him. He said, ""Your wife must do everything I have told her to do." 
Judges13:14 She must not eat anything that comes from grapevines. She must not drink any kind of wine. She must not eat anything that is 'unclean.' She must do everything I have commanded her to do. 
Judges13:15 Manoah spoke to the angel of the Lord. He said, ""We would like you to stay and eat. We want to prepare a young goat for you.""" 
Judges13:16 The angel of the Lord replied, ""Even if I stay, I will not eat any of your food. But if you still want to prepare a burnt offering, you must offer it to the Lord."" Manoah didn't realize it was the angel of the Lord." 
Judges13:17 Then Manoah asked the angel of the Lord a question. What is your name? he said. We want to honor you when your word comes true. 
Judges13:18 The angel replied, ""Why are you asking me what my name is? You would not be able to understand it.""" 
Judges13:19 Manoah got a young goat. He brought it together with the grain offering. He sacrificed it on a rock to the Lord. Then the Lord did an amazing thing. It happened while Manoah and his wife were watching. 
Judges13:20 A flame blazed up from the altar toward heaven. The angel of the Lord rose up in the flame. When Manoah and his wife saw it, they fell with their faces to the ground." 
Judges13:21 The angel of the Lord didn't show himself again to Manoah and his wife. Then Manoah realized it was the angel of the Lord. 
Judges13:22 We're going to die! he said to his wife. We've seen God! 
Judges13:23 But his wife answered, ""The Lord doesn't want to kill us. If he did, he wouldn't have accepted a burnt offering and a grain offering from us. He wouldn't have shown us all of those things. He wouldn't have told us we're going to have a son.""" 
Judges13:24 Later, the woman had a baby boy. She named him Samson. As he grew up, the Lord blessed him." 
Judges13:25 The Spirit of the Lord began to work in his life. It happened while he was in Mahaneh Dan. It's between Zorah and Eshtaol. 
Judges14:1 Samson went down to Timnah. There he saw a young Philistine woman. 
Judges14:2 When he returned, he spoke to his father and mother. He said, ""I've seen a Philistine woman in Timnah. Get her for me. I want her to be my wife.""" 
Judges14:3 His father and mother replied, ""Can't we find a wife for you among your relatives? Isn't there one among any of our people? Do you have to go to the Philistines to get a wife? They aren't God's people. They haven't even been circumcised."" But Samson said to his father, ""Get her for me. She's the right one for me.""" 
Judges14:4 Samson's parents didn't know that the Lord wanted things to happen that way. He was working out his plans against the Philistines. That's because the Philistines were ruling over Israel at that time. 
Judges14:5 Samson went down to Timnah. His father and mother went with him. They approached the vineyards of Timnah. Suddenly a young lion came roaring toward Samson. 
Judges14:6 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Samson with power. He tore the lion apart with his bare hands. He did it as easily as he might have torn a young goat apart. But he didn't tell his father or mother what he had done. 
Judges14:7 Then he went down and talked with the woman. He liked her. 
Judges14:8 Some time later, he was going back to get married to her. But he turned off the road to look at the lion's dead body. Large numbers of bees and some honey were in it." 
Judges14:9 He dug the honey out with his hands. He ate it as he walked along. Then he joined his parents again. He gave them some honey. They ate it too. But he didn't tell them he had taken it from the lion's dead body. 
Judges14:10 Samson's father went down to see the woman. Samson had a big dinner prepared there. He was following the practice of men when they got married. 
Judges14:11 When the people saw Samson, they gave him 30 companions." 
Judges14:12 Let me tell you a riddle,"" Samson said to the companions. ""The dinner will last for seven days. Give me the answer to the riddle before the dinner ends. If you do, I'll give you 30 linen shirts. I'll also give you 30 sets of clothes." 
Judges14:13 But suppose you can't give me the answer. Then you must give me 30 linen shirts. You must also give me 30 sets of clothes. Tell us your riddle,"" they said. ""Let's hear it.""" 
Judges14:14 Samson replied, ""Out of the eater came something to eat. Out of the strong came something sweet."" For three days they couldn't give him the answer." 
Judges14:15 On the fourth day they spoke to Samson's wife. Get your husband to explain the riddle for us,"" they said. ""If you don't, we'll burn you to death. We'll burn up everyone in your family. Did you invite us here to rob us?""" 
Judges14:16 Then Samson's wife threw herself on him. She sobbed, ""You hate me! You don't really love me. You have given my people a riddle. But you haven't told me the answer."" ""I haven't even explained it to my father or mother,"" he replied. ""So why should I explain it to you?""" 
Judges14:17 She cried during the whole seven days the dinner was going on. So on the seventh day he finally told her the answer to the riddle. That's because she kept on asking him to tell her. Then she explained the riddle to her people. 
Judges14:18 Before sunset on the seventh day the men of the town spoke to Samson. They said, ""What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?"" Samson said to them, ""You have plowed with my young cow. If you hadn't, you wouldn't have known the answer to my riddle.""" 
Judges14:19 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Samson with power. He went down to Ashkelon. He struck down 30 of their men. He took everything they had with them. And he gave their clothes to those who had explained the riddle. Samson was burning with anger as he went up to his father's house. 
Judges14:20 Samson's wife was given to someone else. She was given to a friend of Samson. The friend had helped him at his wedding. 
Judges15:1 Later on, Samson went to visit his wife. He took a young goat with him. He went at the time the wheat was being gathered. He said, ""I'm going to my wife's room."" But her father wouldn't let him go in." 
Judges15:2 Her father said, ""I was sure you really hated her. So I gave her to your friend. Isn't her younger sister more beautiful? Take her instead.""" 
Judges15:3 Samson said to them, ""This time I have a right to get even with the Philistines. I'm going to hurt them badly.""" 
Judges15:4 So he went out and caught 300 foxes. He tied them in pairs by their tails. Then he tied a torch to each pair of tails. 
Judges15:5 He lit the torches. He let the foxes loose in the fields of grain that belonged to the Philistines. He burned up the grain that had been cut and stacked. He burned up the grain that was still growing. He also burned up the vineyards and olive trees. 
Judges15:6 The Philistines asked, ""Who did this?"" They were told, ""Samson did. He's the son-in-law of the man from Timnah. Samson did it because his wife was given to his friend."" So the Philistines went up and burned the woman and her father to death." 
Judges15:7 Samson said to them, ""Is that how you act? Then I won't stop until I pay you back.""" 
Judges15:8 He struck them down with heavy blows. He killed many of them. Then he went down and stayed in a cave. It was in the rock of Etam. 
Judges15:9 The Philistines went up and camped in Judah. They spread out near Lehi. 
Judges15:10 The men of Judah asked, ""Why have you come to fight against us?"" ""We've come to take Samson as our prisoner,"" they answered. ""We want to do to him what he did to us.""" 
Judges15:11 Then 3,000 men from Judah went to get Samson. They went down to the cave that was in the rock of Etam. They said to Samson, ""Don't you realize the Philistines are ruling over us? What have you done to us?"" Samson answered, ""I only did to them what they did to me.""" 
Judges15:12 The men of Judah said to him, ""We've come to tie you up. We're going to hand you over to the Philistines."" Samson said, ""Take an oath and promise me you won't kill me yourselves.""" 
Judges15:13 We agree,"" they answered. ""We'll only tie you up and hand you over to them. We won't kill you."" So they tied him up with two new ropes. They led him up from the rock." 
Judges15:14 Samson approached Lehi. The Philistines came toward him shouting. Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Samson with power. The ropes on his arms became like burned thread. They dropped off his hands. 
Judges15:15 He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey. He grabbed hold of it and struck down 1,000 men." 
Judges15:16 Then Samson said, ""By using a donkey's jawbone I've made them look like donkeys. By using a donkey's jawbone I've struck down 1,000 men.""" 
Judges15:17 Samson finished speaking. Then he threw the jawbone away. That's why the place was called Ramath Lehi. 
Judges15:18 Samson was very thirsty. So he cried out to the Lord. He said, ""You have helped me win this great battle. Do I have to die of thirst now? Must I fall into the power of people who haven't even been circumcised? They aren't your people.""" 
Judges15:19 Then God opened up the hollow place in Lehi. Water came out of it. When Samson drank the water, his strength returned. He felt as good as new. So the spring was called En Hakkore. It's still there in Lehi." 
Judges15:20 Samson led Israel for 20 years. In those days the Philistines were in the land. 
Judges16:1 One day Samson went to Gaza. There he saw a prostitute. He went in to spend the night with her. 
Judges16:2 The people of Gaza were told, ""Samson is here!"" So they surrounded the place. They hid and waited for him at the city gate all night long. They didn't make any move against him during the night. They said, ""Let's wait until the sun comes up. Then we'll kill him.""" 
Judges16:3 But Samson stayed there only until the middle of the night. Then he got up. He took hold of the doors of the city gate. He also took hold of the two doorposts. He tore them loose, together with their metal bar. He picked them up and put them on his shoulders. Then he carried them to the top of the hill that faces Hebron." 
Judges16:4 Some time later, Samson fell in love again. The woman lived in the Valley of Sorek. Her name was Delilah." 
Judges16:5 The rulers of the Philistines went to her. They said, ""See if you can get him to tell you the secret of why he's so strong. Find out how we can overpower him. Then we can tie him up. We can bring him under our control. Each of us will give you 28 pounds of silver.""" 
Judges16:6 So Delilah spoke to Samson. She said, ""Tell me the secret of why you are so strong. Tell me how you can be tied up and controlled.""" 
Judges16:7 Samson answered her, ""Let someone tie me up with seven new leather straps. They must be straps that aren't completely dry. Then I'll become as weak as any other man.""" 
Judges16:8 So the Philistine rulers brought seven new leather straps to her. They weren't completely dry. Delilah tied Samson up with them. 
Judges16:9 Men were hiding in the room. She called out to him. She said, ""Samson! The Philistines are attacking you!"" But he snapped the leather straps easily. They were like pieces of string that had come too close to a flame. So the secret of why he was so strong wasn't discovered." 
Judges16:10 Delilah spoke to Samson again. You have made me look foolish,"" she said. ""You told me a lie. Come on. Tell me how you can be tied up.""" 
Judges16:11 Samson said, ""Let someone tie me tightly with new ropes. They must be ropes that have never been used. Then I'll become as weak as any other man.""" 
Judges16:12 So Delilah got some new ropes. She tied him up with them. Men were hiding in the room. She called out to him. She said, ""Samson! The Philistines are attacking you!"" But he snapped the ropes off his arms. They fell off just as if they were threads." 
Judges16:13 Delilah spoke to Samson again. Until now, you have been making me look foolish,"" she said. ""You have been telling me lies. This time really tell me how you can be tied up."" He replied, ""Weave the seven braids of my hair into the cloth on a loom. Then pin my hair to the loom. If you do, I'll become as weak as any other man."" So while Samson was sleeping, Delilah took hold of the seven braids of his hair. She wove them into the cloth on a loom." 
Judges16:14 Then she pinned his hair to the loom. Again she called out to him. She said, ""Samson! The Philistines are attacking you!"" He woke up from his sleep. He pulled up the pin and the loom, together with the cloth." 
Judges16:15 Then she said to him, ""How can you say, 'I love you'? You won't even share your secret with me. This is the third time you have made me look foolish. And you still haven't told me the secret of why you are so strong.""" 
Judges16:16 She continued to pester him day after day. She nagged him until he was sick and tired of it. 
Judges16:17 So he told her everything. I've never used a razor on my head,"" he said. ""I've never cut my hair. That's because I've been a Nazirite since the day I was born. A Nazirite is set apart to God. If you shave my head, I won't be strong anymore. I'll become as weak as any other man.""" 
Judges16:18 Delilah realized he had told her everything. So she sent a message to the Philistine rulers. She said, ""Come back one more time. He has told me everything."" So the rulers returned. They brought the silver with them." 
Judges16:19 Delilah got Samson to go to sleep on her lap. Then she called for a man to shave off the seven braids of his hair. That's how she began to bring him under her control. And he wasn't strong anymore. 
Judges16:20 She called out, ""Samson! The Philistines are attacking you!"" He woke up from his sleep. He thought, ""I'll go out just as I did before. I'll shake myself free."" But he didn't know that the Lord had left him." 
Judges16:21 Then the Philistines grabbed hold of him. They poked his eyes out. They took him down to Gaza. They put bronze chains around him. Then they made him grind grain in the prison. 
Judges16:22 His head had been shaved. But the hair on it began to grow again. 
Judges16:23 The rulers of the Philistines gathered together. They were going to offer a great sacrifice to their god Dagon. They were going to celebrate. They said, ""Our god has handed our enemy Samson over to us.""" 
Judges16:24 When the people saw Samson, they praised their god. They said, ""Our god has handed our enemy over to us. Our enemy has destroyed our land. He has killed large numbers of our people.""" 
Judges16:25 After they had drunk a lot of wine, they shouted, ""Bring Samson out. Let him put on a show for us."" So they called Samson out of the prison. He put on a show for them. They had him stand near the temple pillars." 
Judges16:26 Then he spoke to the servant who was holding his hand. He said, ""Put me where I can feel the pillars. I'm talking about the ones that hold the temple up. I want to lean against them.""" 
Judges16:27 The temple was crowded with men and women. All of the Philistine rulers were there. About 3,000 men and women were on the roof. They were watching Samson put on a show." 
Judges16:28 Then he prayed to the Lord. He said, ""Lord and King, show me that you still have concern for me. God, please make me strong just one more time. Let me pay the Philistines back for what they did to my two eyes. Let me do it with only one blow.""" 
Judges16:29 Then Samson reached toward the two pillars that were in the middle of the temple. They held the temple up. He put his right hand on one of them. He put his left hand on the other. He leaned hard against them. 
Judges16:30 Samson said, ""Let me die together with the Philistines!"" Then he pushed with all his might. The temple came down on the rulers. It fell on all of the people who were in it. So Samson killed many more Philistines when he died than he did while he lived." 
Judges16:31 Then his brothers went down to get him. So did his father's whole family. All of them brought Samson's body back home. They buried his body in the tomb of his father Manoah. It's between Zorah and Eshtaol. Samson had led Israel for 20 years. 
Judges17:1 A man named Micah lived in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges17:1 A man named Micah lived in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges17:2 He said to his mother, ""Someone took 28 pounds of silver from you. I heard you call down a curse because of it. I have the silver with me. I'm the one who took it."" Then his mother said, ""My son, may the Lord bless you!""" 
Judges17:3 He gave the 28 pounds of silver back to his mother. She said to him, ""I'm taking an oath and setting my silver apart to the Lord. My son, I want you to use part of it for a statue of a god that is made out of wood or stone and covered with silver. Use the rest of it to have another statue made out of silver. That's why I'll give the silver back to you.""" 
Judges17:4 He gave the silver back to his mother. She gave five pounds of it to a skilled worker who made things out of silver. He used the silver for the two statues. They were put in Micah's house. 
Judges17:4 He gave the silver back to his mother. She gave five pounds of it to a skilled worker who made things out of silver. He used the silver for the two statues. They were put in Micah's house. 
Judges17:5 That same Micah had a small temple. He made a sacred linen apron and some statues of gods. He prepared one of his sons to serve as his priest. 
Judges17:5 That same Micah had a small temple. He made a sacred linen apron and some statues of gods. He prepared one of his sons to serve as his priest. 
Judges17:6 In those days Israel didn't have a king. The people did anything they thought was right. 
Judges17:7 A young Levite had been living in land that belonged to the tribe of Judah. He was from Bethlehem in Judah. 
Judges17:8 He left that town to look for some other place to stay. On his way he came to Micah's house. It was in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges17:8 He left that town to look for some other place to stay. On his way he came to Micah's house. It was in the hill country of Ephraim. 
Judges17:9 Micah asked him, ""Where are you from?"" ""I'm a Levite,"" he said. ""I'm from Bethlehem in Judah. I'm looking for a place to stay.""" 
Judges17:9 Micah asked him, ""Where are you from?"" ""I'm a Levite,"" he said. ""I'm from Bethlehem in Judah. I'm looking for a place to stay.""" 
Judges17:10 Then Micah said to him, ""Live with me. Be my father and priest. I'll give you four ounces of silver a year. I'll also give you clothes and food.""" 
Judges17:10 Then Micah said to him, ""Live with me. Be my father and priest. I'll give you four ounces of silver a year. I'll also give you clothes and food.""" 
Judges17:11 So the Levite agreed to live with him. The young man was just like a son to Micah. 
Judges17:11 So the Levite agreed to live with him. The young man was just like a son to Micah. 
Judges17:12 Then Micah prepared the Levite to serve as his priest. He lived in Micah's house. 
Judges17:12 Then Micah prepared the Levite to serve as his priest. He lived in Micah's house. 
Judges17:13 Micah said, ""Now I know that the Lord will be good to me. This Levite has become my priest.""" 
Judges17:13 Micah said, ""Now I know that the Lord will be good to me. This Levite has become my priest.""" 
Judges18:1 In those days Israel didn't have a king. And in those days the tribe of Dan was looking for a place where they could settle down. They hadn't been able to take over their own share of land among the tribes of Israel. 
Judges18:2 So the people of Dan sent out five warriors from Zorah and Eshtaol. They told them to look the land over and check it out. Those men did it for all of their family groups. The people of Dan told the men, ""Go. Check out the land."" So they entered the hill country of Ephraim. They went to the house of Micah. That's where they spent the night." 
Judges18:2 So the people of Dan sent out five warriors from Zorah and Eshtaol. They told them to look the land over and check it out. Those men did it for all of their family groups. The people of Dan told the men, ""Go. Check out the land."" So they entered the hill country of Ephraim. They went to the house of Micah. That's where they spent the night." 
Judges18:3 When they came near Micah's house, they recognized a voice. It was the voice of the young Levite. So they turned off the road and stopped there. They asked him, ""Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? Why are you here?""" 
Judges18:3 When they came near Micah's house, they recognized a voice. It was the voice of the young Levite. So they turned off the road and stopped there. They asked him, ""Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? Why are you here?""" 
Judges18:4 The Levite told them what Micah had done for him. He said, ""He has hired me. I'm his priest.""" 
Judges18:4 The Levite told them what Micah had done for him. He said, ""He has hired me. I'm his priest.""" 
Judges18:5 Then they said to him, ""Please ask God for advice. Try to find out whether we'll have success on our journey.""" 
Judges18:6 The priest answered them, ""Go in peace. The Lord is pleased with your journey.""" 
Judges18:7 So the five men left. They came to Laish. There they saw that the people felt secure. They were living in safety. Like the people in Sidon, they weren't expecting anything bad to happen to them. Their land had everything they needed. Things were going very well for them. They lived a long way from the people of Sidon. And they didn't think they would ever need help from anyone else." 
Judges18:8 The men returned to Zorah and Eshtaol. Their people asked them, ""What did you find out?""" 
Judges18:9 They answered, ""Come on! Let's attack them! We've seen that the land is very good. Aren't you going to do something? Don't wait any longer. Go there and take it over." 
Judges18:10 When you get there, you will find people who aren't expecting anything bad to happen to them. Their land has plenty of room. God has handed it over to you. It's a land that has everything you will ever need.""" 
Judges18:11 So 600 men from the tribe of Dan started out from Zorah and Eshtaol. They were prepared for battle. 
Judges18:12 On their way they set up camp. Their camp was near Kiriath Jearim in Judah. That's why the place is called Mahaneh Dan to this very day. It's west of Kiriath Jearim. 
Judges18:13 From there they went to the hill country of Ephraim. They came to Micah's house. 
Judges18:13 From there they went to the hill country of Ephraim. They came to Micah's house. 
Judges18:14 Then the five men who had looked over the land of Laish spoke to the other members of their tribe. They said, ""Don't you know that one of these houses has a sacred linen apron in it? Some statues of family gods are there. It also has two statues of other gods in it. One of them is made out of wood or stone. The other is made out of silver. Now you know what to do.""" 
Judges18:15 So they turned off the road and stopped there. They went to the house of the young Levite. He was at Micah's place. They greeted the young man. 
Judges18:15 So they turned off the road and stopped there. They went to the house of the young Levite. He was at Micah's place. They greeted the young man. 
Judges18:16 The 600 men from Dan stood at the entrance of the gate. They were prepared for battle. 
Judges18:17 The five men who had looked over the land went inside. They took the two statues. They also took the family gods and the linen apron. During that time, the priest stood at the entrance of the gate. The 600 men stood there with him. They were prepared for battle." 
Judges18:18 When those men went into Micah's house and took all of those things, the priest spoke to them. He asked, ""What are you doing?""" 
Judges18:18 When those men went into Micah's house and took all of those things, the priest spoke to them. He asked, ""What are you doing?""" 
Judges18:19 They answered him, ""Be quiet! Don't say a word. Come with us. Be our father and priest. You can serve a whole tribe and family group in Israel as our priest. Isn't that better than serving just one man's family?""" 
Judges18:20 The priest was glad. He took the linen apron and the family gods. He also took the statue of a god that was made out of wood or stone. Then he left with the people. 
Judges18:21 They put their little children and their livestock in front of them. They also put everything else they owned in front of them. And they turned and went on their way. 
Judges18:22 The men who lived near Micah were called together. Then they left and caught up with the people of Dan. That's because Dan's people hadn't gone very far from Micah's house. 
Judges18:22 The men who lived near Micah were called together. Then they left and caught up with the people of Dan. That's because Dan's people hadn't gone very far from Micah's house. 
Judges18:23 Those who lived near Micah shouted at them. The people of Dan turned around and spoke to Micah. What's the matter with you? they asked. Why did you call your men out to fight against us? 
Judges18:23 Those who lived near Micah shouted at them. The people of Dan turned around and spoke to Micah. What's the matter with you? they asked. Why did you call your men out to fight against us? 
Judges18:24 He replied, ""You took away the gods I made. And you took my priest away. What do I have left? So how can you ask, 'What's the matter with you?' """ 
Judges18:25 The people of Dan answered, ""Don't argue with us. Some men get angry quickly. They might attack you. Then you and your family will lose your lives.""" 
Judges18:26 So the people of Dan went on their way. Micah saw that they were too strong for him. So he turned around and went back home. 
Judges18:26 So the people of Dan went on their way. Micah saw that they were too strong for him. So he turned around and went back home. 
Judges18:27 The people of Dan took what Micah had made. They also took his priest. They continued on their way to Laish. They went there to fight against peaceful people who weren't expecting to be attacked. They struck them down with their swords. They burned their city down. 
Judges18:27 The people of Dan took what Micah had made. They also took his priest. They continued on their way to Laish. They went there to fight against peaceful people who weren't expecting to be attacked. They struck them down with their swords. They burned their city down. 
Judges18:28 No one could save them. They lived a long way from Sidon. And they didn't think they would ever need help from anyone else. Their city was located in a valley near Beth Rehob. The people of Dan rebuilt the city. Then they settled down there. 
Judges18:29 They named it Dan. That's because they traced their family line back to Dan. He was a son of Israel. The city used to be called Laish. 
Judges18:30 There the people of Dan set up the statues of gods for themselves. Jonathan and his sons were priests for the tribe of Dan. Jonathan was the son of Gershom, the son of Moses. Jonathan and his sons were priests until the time when the land was captured." 
Judges18:31 They continued to use the statues Micah had made. They used them during the whole time the house of God was in Shiloh. 
Judges18:31 They continued to use the statues Micah had made. They used them during the whole time the house of God was in Shiloh. 
Judges19:1 In those days Israel didn't have a king. There was a Levite who lived deep in the hill country of Ephraim. He got a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah. 
Judges19:2 But she wasn't faithful to him. She left him. She went back to her father's house in Bethlehem in Judah. She stayed there for four months. 
Judges19:3 Then her husband went to see her. He tried to talk her into coming back with him. He had his servant and two donkeys with him. She took her husband into her father's house. When her father saw him, he gladly welcomed him." 
Judges19:4 His father-in-law, the woman's father, begged him to stay. So he remained with him for three days. He ate, drank and slept there." 
Judges19:5 On the fourth day they got up early. The Levite prepared to leave. But the woman's father spoke to his son-in-law. He said, ""Have something to eat. It will give you strength. Then you can go on your way.""" 
Judges19:6 So the two of them sat down. They ate and drank together. After that, the woman's father said, ""Please stay tonight. Enjoy yourself.""" 
Judges19:7 The man got up to go. But his father-in-law talked him into staying. So he stayed there that night. 
Judges19:8 On the morning of the fifth day, he got up to go. But the woman's father said, ""Have something to eat. It will give you strength. Wait until this afternoon!"" So the two of them ate together." 
Judges19:9 Then the man got up to leave. His concubine and his servant got up when he did. But his father-in-law, the woman's father, spoke to him again. ""Look,"" he said. ""It's almost evening. The day is nearly over. So spend another night here. Please stay. Enjoy yourself. Early tomorrow morning you can get up and go back home.""" 
Judges19:10 But the man didn't want to stay another night. So he left. He went toward Jebus. He had his two donkeys and his concubine with him. The donkeys had saddles on them. Jebus is also called Jerusalem. 
Judges19:11 By the time the travelers came near Jebus, the day was almost over. So the servant said to his master, ""Come. Let's stop at this Jebusite city. Let's spend the night here.""" 
Judges19:12 His master replied, ""No. We won't go into a city where strangers live. The people there aren't from Israel. We'll continue on to Gibeah.""" 
Judges19:13 He added, ""Come. Let's try to reach Gibeah or Ramah. We can spend the night in one of those places.""" 
Judges19:14 So they continued on. As they came near Gibeah in Benjamin, the sun went down." 
Judges19:15 They stopped there to spend the night. They went to the city's main street and sat down. But no one took them home for the night. 
Judges19:16 That evening an old man came into the city. He had been working in the fields. He was from the hill country of Ephraim. But he was living in Gibeah. The people who lived there were from the tribe of Benjamin. 
Judges19:17 The old man saw the traveler in the main street. He asked, ""Where are you going? Where did you come from?""" 
Judges19:18 The Levite answered, ""We've come from Bethlehem in Judah. We're on our way to Ephraim. I live deep in the hill country there. I've been to Bethlehem. Now I'm going to the house of the Lord. But no one has taken me home for the night." 
Judges19:19 We have straw and feed for our donkeys. We have food and wine for ourselves. We have enough for me, my female servant and the young man who is with us. We don't need anything.""" 
Judges19:20 You are welcome at my house,"" the old man said. ""I'd be happy to supply anything you might need. But don't spend the night in the street.""" 
Judges19:21 So the old man took him into his house and fed his donkeys. After the travelers had washed their feet, they had something to eat and drink." 
Judges19:22 They were inside enjoying themselves. But some of the evil men who lived in the city surrounded the house. They pounded on the door. They shouted to the old man who owned the house. They said, ""Bring out the man who came to your house. We want to have sex with him.""" 
Judges19:23 The owner of the house went outside. He said to them, ""No, my friends. Don't do such an evil thing. This man is my guest. So don't do this terrible thing." 
Judges19:24 Look, here is my virgin daughter. And here's the Levite's concubine. I'll bring them out to you now. You can have them. Do to them what you want to. But don't do such a terrible thing to this man.""" 
Judges19:25 The men wouldn't listen to him. So the Levite sent his concubine out to them. They forced her to have sex with them. They raped her all night long. As the night was ending, they let her go." 
Judges19:26 At sunrise she went back to the house where her master was staying. She fell down at the door. She stayed there until daylight. 
Judges19:27 Later that morning her master got up. He opened the door of the house. He stepped out to continue on his way. But his concubine was lying there. She had fallen at the doorway of the house. Her hands were reaching out toward the door. 
Judges19:28 He said to her, ""Get up. Let's go."" But there wasn't any answer. Then he put her dead body on his donkey. And he started out for home." 
Judges19:29 When he reached home, he got a knife. He cut up his concubine. He cut her into 12 pieces. He sent them into all of the territories of Israel." 
Judges19:30 Everyone who saw it said, ""Nothing like this has ever been seen or done before. Nothing like this has happened since the day the people of Israel came up out of Egypt. Think about it! Consider it! Tell us what to do!""" 
Judges20:1 Then all of the people of Israel came out. They came from the whole land between Dan and Beersheba. They also came from the land of Gilead. All of them gathered together in the sight of the Lord at Mizpah. 
Judges20:2 The leaders of all of the tribes of Israel came. They took their places among the people of God who were gathered together. There were 400,000 fighting men who were carrying swords." 
Judges20:3 The tribe of Benjamin heard that the people of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. The people of Israel said, ""Tell us how that awful thing happened.""" 
Judges20:4 So the Levite spoke. He was the husband of the woman who had been murdered. He said, ""I and my concubine went to Gibeah in Benjamin. We spent the night there." 
Judges20:5 During the night the men of Gibeah came after me. They surrounded the house. They were planning to kill me. They raped my concubine, and she died." 
Judges20:6 I took my concubine and cut her into pieces. I sent one piece to each part of Israel's territory. I did it because they had done a very terrible thing in Israel. 
Judges20:7 All of you men of Israel, speak up now. Give your decision.""" 
Judges20:8 All of the men got up together. They said, ""None of us will go home. Not one of us will return to his house." 
Judges20:9 Here is what we'll do to Gibeah. We'll use lots to tell us how to attack the city. 
Judges20:10 We'll take ten men out of every 100 from all of the tribes of Israel. We'll take 100 from every 1,000. We'll take 1,000 from every 10,000. The men we take will get supplies for the army. Then the army will go to Gibeah in Benjamin. They'll give Gibeah exactly what they should get because of the evil thing they did in Israel.""" 
Judges20:11 So all of the men of Israel came together to fight against the city. 
Judges20:12 The tribes of Israel sent men through the whole tribe of Benjamin. They said, ""What about this awful crime that was committed among you?" 
Judges20:13 Hand over those evil men of Gibeah. We'll put them to death. In that way we'll get rid of those evil people. But the people of Benjamin wouldn't listen to the other people of Israel. 
Judges20:14 They came together at Gibeah from their towns. They came to fight against the other people of Israel. 
Judges20:15 Right away the people of Benjamin gathered together 26,000 men from their towns. They were carrying swords. The men were added to the 700 who had been chosen from those who were living in Gibeah." 
Judges20:16 Among all of those men there were 700 who were left-handed. Each of them could sling a stone at a hair and not miss. 
Judges20:17 Israel gathered 400,000 men together. They were carrying swords. All of them were fighting men. That number didn't include the tribe of Benjamin." 
Judges20:18 The people of Israel went up to Bethel. There they spoke to God. They asked him, ""Who will go up first and fight for us against the people of Benjamin?"" The Lord answered, ""The tribe of Judah will go first.""" 
Judges20:19 The next morning the people of Israel got up. They set up camp near Gibeah. 
Judges20:20 The men of Israel went out to fight against the men of Benjamin. They took up their battle positions against them at Gibeah. 
Judges20:21 The men of Benjamin came out of Gibeah. They killed 22,000 men of Israel on the field of battle that day." 
Judges20:22 But the men of Israel cheered each other on. They again took up their positions in the places where they had been the first day. 
Judges20:23 The men of Israel went and sobbed in the sight of the Lord until evening. They spoke to the Lord. They asked, ""Should we go up again to fight against the men of Benjamin? They are our fellow Israelites."" The Lord answered, ""Go up and fight against them.""" 
Judges20:24 The men of Israel came near the men of Benjamin on the second day. 
Judges20:25 The men of Benjamin came out from Gibeah to oppose them. That time they killed 18,000 more men of Israel. All of the men who died had been carrying swords." 
Judges20:26 Then all of the people of Israel went up to Bethel. They sat there and sobbed in the sight of the Lord. They didn't eat anything that day until evening. Then they brought burnt offerings and friendship offerings to the Lord. 
Judges20:27 Again the people of Israel spoke to the Lord. In those days the ark of the covenant of God was there. 
Judges20:28 Phinehas was serving as priest at the ark. He was the son of Eleazar. Eleazar was the son of Aaron. The people of Israel asked, ""Should we go up again to fight against the men of Benjamin? They are our fellow Israelites."" The Lord answered, ""Go. Tomorrow I will hand them over to you.""" 
Judges20:29 Then Israel hid some men and had them wait all around Gibeah. 
Judges20:30 They went up to fight against the men of Benjamin on the third day. They took up their positions against Gibeah, just as they had done before." 
Judges20:31 The men of Benjamin came out to fight against them. They were drawn away from the city. They began to wound and kill the men of Israel just as they had done before. About 30 men fell in battle. They fell in the open fields and on the roads. One of the roads led to Bethel. The other led to Gibeah. 
Judges20:32 The men of Benjamin said, ""We're winning the battle over them, just as we did before."" But the men of Israel said, ""Let's pull back. Let's draw them away from the city to the roads.""" 
Judges20:33 All of the men of Israel moved away from their places. They took up new battle positions at Baal Tamar. The men who had been hiding charged out. They came from west of Gibeah. 
Judges20:34 Then 10,000 of Israel's finest men attacked Gibeah. The men of Benjamin didn't realize they were about to be destroyed. The fighting was very heavy." 
Judges20:35 The Lord helped Israel win the battle over Benjamin. On that day the men of Israel struck down 25,100 men of Benjamin. All of the men who died had been carrying swords." 
Judges20:36 Then the men of Benjamin saw that they had lost the battle. The men of Israel had moved away from their positions in front of Benjamin. They had depended on the men they had hidden near Gibeah. 
Judges20:37 Suddenly the men who had been hiding rushed into Gibeah. They spread out. Then they killed everyone in the city with their swords. 
Judges20:38 The men of Israel had made a plan with those who had been hiding. They had told them to send up a large cloud of smoke from the city. 
Judges20:39 Then the men of Israel would turn around and attack. The men of Benjamin had begun to wound and kill the men of Israel. They had struck down about 30 of them. They had said, ""We're winning the battle over them, just as we did the first time.""" 
Judges20:40 But a column of smoke began to go up from the city. The men of Benjamin turned around. They saw the smoke of the whole city going up into the sky. 
Judges20:41 Then the men of Israel turned around and attacked them. The men of Benjamin were terrified. They realized they were going to be destroyed. 
Judges20:42 So they ran away from the men of Israel. They ran toward the desert. But they couldn't escape the battle. Other men of Israel came out of the towns. There they struck the men of Benjamin down. 
Judges20:43 They surrounded them. They chased them and easily caught up with them. That happened east of Gibeah. 
Judges20:44 So 18,000 men of Benjamin fell in battle. All of them were brave fighters." 
Judges20:45 Some men of Benjamin turned back. They ran toward the desert to the rock of Rimmon. As they did, the men of Israel struck down 5,000 of them along the roads. They kept chasing the men of Benjamin all the way to Gidom. Along the way they struck down 2,000 more." 
Judges20:46 On that day 25,000 men of Benjamin fell in battle. They had been carrying swords. All of them were brave fighters." 
Judges20:47 But 600 men turned back. They ran into the desert to the rock of Rimmon. They stayed there for four months. 
Judges20:48 The men of Israel went back to Benjamin. They killed the people in all of the towns with their swords. They even killed the animals. So they killed everything they found. They set on fire all of the towns they came to. 
Judges21:1 The men of Israel had taken an oath and made a promise at Mizpah. They had said, ""Not one of us will give his daughter to be married to a man from Benjamin.""" 
Judges21:2 The people went to Bethel. They sat there until evening in the sight of God. They sobbed loudly and bitterly. 
Judges21:3 Lord, you are the God of Israel,"" they cried. ""Why has this happened to Israel? Why is one tribe missing from Israel today?""" 
Judges21:4 Early the next day the people built an altar. They brought burnt offerings and friendship offerings. 
Judges21:5 Then the people of Israel asked, ""Has anyone failed to come here in the sight of the Lord? Is anyone missing from all of the tribes of Israel?"" The people had made a promise with an oath. They had said that anyone who failed to come to Mizpah in the sight of the Lord should certainly be put to death." 
Judges21:6 The people of Israel were very sad because of what had happened to the tribe of Benjamin. After all, they were their fellow Israelites. ""Today one tribe has been cut off from Israel,"" they said." 
Judges21:7 How can we provide wives for the men who are left? We've made a promise with an oath in the sight of the Lord. We've promised not to give any of our daughters to be married to them. 
Judges21:8 Then they asked, ""Has any tribe of Israel failed to come here to Mizpah in the sight of the Lord?"" They discovered that no one from Jabesh Gilead had come. No one from there had gathered together with the others in the camp." 
Judges21:9 They counted the people. They found that none of the people of Jabesh Gilead had come to Mizpah. 
Judges21:10 So the community sent 12,000 fighting men to Jabesh Gilead. They directed them to take their swords and kill those who were living there. That included the women and children." 
Judges21:11 Here is what you must do,"" they said. ""Kill every male. Also kill every woman who is not a virgin.""" 
Judges21:12 They found 400 young women in Jabesh Gilead who had never made love to a man. So they took them to the camp at Shiloh in Canaan. 
Judges21:13 Then the whole community sent an offer of peace to the men of Benjamin. The men were at the rock of Rimmon. 
Judges21:14 So the men of Benjamin returned at that time. They were given the women of Jabesh Gilead who had been spared. But there weren't enough women for all of them. 
Judges21:15 The people were very sad because of what had happened to the tribe of Benjamin. The Lord had left a gap in the tribes of Israel. They weren't complete without Benjamin. 
Judges21:16 The elders of the community spoke up. They said, ""All of the women of Benjamin have been wiped out. So how will we find wives for the men who are left?" 
Judges21:17 The men of Benjamin who are still alive need to have children,"" they said. ""If they don't, a tribe of Israel will be wiped out." 
Judges21:18 But we can't give them our daughters to be their wives. We Israelites have taken an oath and made a promise. We've said, 'May anyone who gives a wife to a man from Benjamin be under the Lord's curse.'" 
Judges21:19 Look, a feast is celebrated every year in Shiloh in honor of the Lord. Shiloh is north of Bethel. It's east of the road that goes from Bethel to Shechem. It's south of Lebonah.""" 
Judges21:20 So they told the men of Benjamin what to do. They said, ""Go. Hide in the vineyards" 
Judges21:21 and watch. The young women of Shiloh will come out. They'll join in the dancing. When they do, run out of the vineyards. Each of you grab hold of a young woman from Shiloh to be your wife. Then go to the land of Benjamin." 
Judges21:22 Their fathers or brothers might not be happy with what we're doing. If they aren't, we'll say to them, 'Do us a favor. Help the men of Benjamin. We didn't get wives for them during the battle. You aren't guilty of doing anything wrong. After all, you didn't give your daughters to them. They were stolen from you.' """ 
Judges21:23 So that's what the men of Benjamin did. While the young women were dancing, each man caught one. He carried her away to be his wife. Then the men returned to their own share of land. They built the towns again. They settled down in them." 
Judges21:24 At that time the men of Israel also left. They went home to their tribes and family groups. Each one went to his own share of land. 
Judges21:25 In those days Israel didn't have a king. The people did anything they thought was right. 
Ruth1:1 There was a time when Israel didn't have kings to rule over them. But they had leaders to help them. This is a story about some things that happened during that time. There wasn't enough food in the land of Judah. So a man went to live in the country of Moab for a while. He was from Bethlehem in Judah. His wife and two sons went with him. 
Ruth1:2 The man's name was Elimelech. His wife's name was Naomi. The names of his two sons were Mahlon and Kilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem in Judah. They went to Moab and lived there. 
Ruth1:3 Naomi's husband Elimelech died. So she was left with her two sons. 
Ruth1:4 They got married to women from Moab. One was named Orpah. The other was named Ruth. Naomi's family lived in Moab for about ten years. 
Ruth1:5 Then Mahlon and Kilion also died. So Naomi was left without her two sons and her husband. 
Ruth1:6 While Naomi was in Moab, she heard that the Lord had helped his people. He had begun to provide food for them again. So Naomi and her daughters-in-law prepared to go from Moab back to her home." 
Ruth1:7 She left the place where she had been living. Her two daughters-in-law went with her. They started out on the road that would take them back to the land of Judah. 
Ruth1:8 Naomi spoke to her two daughters-in-law. Both of you go back,"" she said. ""Each of you go to your own mother's home. You were kind to your husbands, who have died. You have also been kind to me. So may the Lord be just as kind to you." 
Ruth1:9 May he help each of you find a secure place in the home of another husband. May he give you peace and rest. Then she kissed them good-by. They broke down and sobbed loudly. 
Ruth1:10 They said to her, ""We'll go back to your people with you.""" 
Ruth1:11 But Naomi said, ""Go home, my daughters. Why would you want to come with me? Am I going to have any more sons who could become your husbands?" 
Ruth1:12 Go home, my daughters. I'm too old to have another husband. Suppose I thought there was still some hope for me. Suppose I got married to a man tonight. And later I had sons by him." 
Ruth1:13 Would you wait until they grew up? Would you stay single until you could get married to them? No, my daughters. My life is more bitter than yours. The Lord's powerful hand has been against me!""" 
Ruth1:14 When they heard that, they broke down and sobbed again. Then Orpah kissed her mother-in-law good-by. But Ruth held on to her." 
Ruth1:15 Look,"" said Naomi. ""Your sister-in-law is going back to her people and her gods. Go back with her.""" 
Ruth1:16 But Ruth replied, ""Don't try to make me leave you and go back. Where you go I'll go. Where you stay I'll stay. Your people will be my people. Your God will be my God." 
Ruth1:17 Where you die I'll die. And there my body will be buried. I won't let anything except death separate you from me. If I do, may the Lord punish me greatly.""" 
Ruth1:18 Naomi realized that Ruth had made up her mind to go with her. So she stopped trying to make her go back. 
Ruth1:19 The two women continued on their way. At last they arrived in Bethlehem. The whole town was stirred up because of them. The women asked, ""Can this possibly be Naomi?""" 
Ruth1:20 Don't call me Naomi,"" she told them. ""Call me Mara. The Mighty One has made my life very bitter." 
Ruth1:21 I was full when I went away. But the Lord has brought me back empty. So why are you calling me Naomi? The Lord has made me suffer. The Mighty One has brought trouble on me. 
Ruth1:22 So Naomi returned from Moab. Ruth, her daughter-in-law from Moab, came with her. They arrived in Bethlehem just when people were beginning to harvest the barley." 
Ruth2:1 Naomi had a relative on her husband's side of the family. Her husband's name was Elimelech. The relative's name was Boaz. He was a very important man. 
Ruth2:2 Ruth, who was from Moab, spoke to Naomi. She said, ""Let me go out to the fields. I'll pick up the grain that has been left. I'll do it behind anyone who is pleased with me."" Naomi said to her, ""My daughter, go ahead.""" 
Ruth2:3 So Ruth went out and began to pick up grain. She worked in the fields behind those who were cutting and gathering the grain. As it turned out, she was working in a field that belonged to Boaz. He was from the family of Elimelech." 
Ruth2:4 Just then Boaz arrived from Bethlehem. He greeted those who were cutting and gathering the grain. He said, ""May the Lord be with you!"" ""And may the Lord bless you!"" they replied." 
Ruth2:5 Boaz spoke to the man who was in charge of his workers. He asked, ""Who is that young woman?""" 
Ruth2:6 The man replied, ""She's from Moab. She came back from there with Naomi." 
Ruth2:7 She said, 'Please let me walk behind the workers. Let me pick up the grain that is left.' Then she went into the field. She has kept on working there from morning until now. She took only one short rest in the shade.""" 
Ruth2:8 So Boaz said to Ruth, ""Dear woman, listen to me. Don't pick up grain in any other field. Don't go anywhere else. Stay here with my female servants." 
Ruth2:9 Keep your eye on the field where the men are cutting grain. Walk behind the women who are gathering it. Pick up the grain that is left. I've told the men not to touch you. When you are thirsty, go and get a drink. Take water from the jars the men have filled.""" 
Ruth2:10 When Ruth heard that, she bowed down with her face to the ground. She asked, ""Why are you being so kind to me? In fact, why are you even noticing me? I'm from another country.""" 
Ruth2:11 Boaz replied, ""I've been told all about you. I've heard about everything you have done for your mother-in-law since your husband died. I know that you left your father and mother. I know that you left your country. You came to live with people you didn't know before." 
Ruth2:12 May the Lord reward you for what you have done. May the God of Israel bless you richly. You have come to him to find safety under his care. 
Ruth2:13 Sir, I hope you will continue to be kind to me,"" Ruth said. ""You have comforted me. You have spoken kindly to me. And I'm not even as important as one of your female servants!""" 
Ruth2:14 When it was time to eat, Boaz spoke to Ruth again. ""Come over here,"" he said. ""Have some bread. Dip it in the wine vinegar."" She sat down with the workers. Then Boaz offered her some grain that had been cooked. She ate all she wanted. She even had some left over." 
Ruth2:15 Ruth got up to pick up more grain. Then Boaz gave orders to his men. He said, ""Suppose she takes some stalks from what the women have tied up. If she does, don't make her look bad." 
Ruth2:16 Instead, pull some stalks out for her. Leave them for her to pick up. Don't tell her she shouldn't do it.""" 
Ruth2:17 So Ruth picked up grain in the field until evening. Then she separated the barley from the straw. It amounted to more than half a bushel. 
Ruth2:18 She carried it back to town. Her mother-in-law saw how much she had gathered. Ruth also brought out the food that was left over from the lunch Boaz had given her. She gave it to Naomi. 
Ruth2:19 Her mother-in-law asked her, ""Where did you pick up grain today? Where did you work? May the man who noticed you be blessed!"" Then Ruth told her about the man whose field she had worked in. ""The name of the man I worked with today is Boaz,"" she said." 
Ruth2:20 May the Lord bless him! Naomi said to her daughter-in-law. The Lord is still being kind to those who are living and those who are dead. She continued, ""That man is a close relative of ours. He's one of our family protectors.""" 
Ruth2:21 Then Ruth, who was from Moab, said, ""He told me more. He even said, 'Stay with my workers until they have finished bringing in all of my grain.' """ 
Ruth2:22 Naomi replied to her daughter-in-law Ruth. She said, ""That will be good for you, my daughter. Go with his female servants. You might be harmed if you go to someone else's field.""" 
Ruth2:23 So Ruth stayed close to the female servants of Boaz as she picked up grain. She worked until the time when all of the barley and wheat had been harvested. And she lived with her mother-in-law. 
Ruth3:1 One day Ruth's mother-in-law Naomi spoke to her. She said, ""My daughter, shouldn't I try to find a secure place for you? Shouldn't you have peace and rest? Shouldn't I find a home where things will go well with you?" 
Ruth3:2 You have been with the female servants of Boaz. He's a relative of ours. Tonight he'll be separating the straw from his barley on the threshing floor. 
Ruth3:3 So wash yourself. Put on some perfume. And put on your best clothes. Then go down to the threshing floor. But don't let Boaz know you are there. Wait until he has finished eating and drinking. 
Ruth3:4 Notice where he lies down. Then go over and uncover his feet. Lie down there. He'll tell you what to do. 
Ruth3:5 I'll do everything you say,"" Ruth answered." 
Ruth3:6 So she went down to the threshing floor. She did everything her mother-in-law had told her to do. 
Ruth3:7 When Boaz had finished eating and drinking, he was in a good mood. He went over to lie down at the far end of the grain pile. Then Ruth approached quietly. She uncovered his feet and lay down there." 
Ruth3:8 In the middle of the night, something surprised Boaz and woke him up. He turned and found a woman lying there at his feet." 
Ruth3:9 Who are you? he asked. I'm Ruth,"" she said. ""You are my family protector. So take good care of me by making me your wife.""" 
Ruth3:10 Dear woman, may the Lord bless you,"" he replied. ""You are showing even more kindness now than you did earlier. You didn't run after the younger men, whether they were rich or poor." 
Ruth3:11 Dear woman, don't be afraid. I'll do for you everything you ask. All of the people of my town know that you are a noble woman." 
Ruth3:12 It's true that I'm a relative of yours. But there's a family protector who is more closely related to you than I am. 
Ruth3:13 So stay here for the night. In the morning if he wants to help you, good. Let him help you. But if he doesn't want to, then I'll do it. You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that I'll help you. Lie down here until morning.""" 
Ruth3:14 So she stayed at his feet until morning. But she got up before anyone could be recognized. Boaz thought, ""No one must know that a woman came to the threshing floor.""" 
Ruth3:15 He said to Ruth, ""Bring me the coat you have around you. Hold it out."" So she did. He poured more than fifty pounds of barley into it and helped her pick it up. Then he went back to town." 
Ruth3:16 Ruth came to her mother-in-law. Naomi asked, ""How did it go, my daughter?"" Then Ruth told her everything Boaz had done for her." 
Ruth3:17 She said, ""He gave me all of this barley. He said, 'Don't go back to your mother-in-law with your hands empty.' """ 
Ruth3:18 Naomi said, ""My daughter, sit down until you find out what happens. The man won't rest until he settles the whole matter today.""" 
Ruth4:1 Boaz went up to the town gate and sat down there. The family protector he had talked about came by. Then Boaz said, ""Come over here, my friend. Sit down."" So the man went over and sat down." 
Ruth4:2 Boaz brought ten of the elders of the town together. He said, ""Sit down here."" So they did." 
Ruth4:3 Then he spoke to the family protector. He said, ""Naomi has come back from Moab. She's selling the piece of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech." 
Ruth4:4 I thought I should bring the matter to your attention. I suggest that you buy the land while those who are sitting here and the elders of my people are looking on as witnesses. If you are willing to buy it back, do it. But if you aren't, tell me. Then I'll know. No one has the right to buy it back except you. And I'm next in line."" ""I'll buy it,"" he said." 
Ruth4:5 Then Boaz said, ""When you buy the land from Naomi and Ruth, who is from Moab, you must get married to Ruth. She's the dead man's widow. So you must take her as your wife. His name must stay with his property.""" 
Ruth4:6 When the family protector heard that, he said, ""Then I can't buy the land. If I did, I might put my own property in danger. So you buy it. I can't do it.""" 
Ruth4:7 In earlier times in Israel, there was a certain practice. It was used when family land was bought back and changed owners. The practice made the sale final. One person would take his sandal off and give it to the other. That was how people in Israel showed that a business matter had been settled." 
Ruth4:8 So the family protector said to Boaz, ""Buy it yourself."" And he took his sandal off." 
Ruth4:9 Then Boaz spoke to the elders and all of the people. He said, ""Today you are witnesses. You have seen that I have bought land from Naomi. I have bought all of the property that had belonged to Elimelech, Kilion and Mahlon." 
Ruth4:10 I've also taken Ruth, who is from Moab, to become my wife. She is Mahlon's widow. I've decided to get married to her so the dead man's name will stay with his property. Now his name won't disappear from his family line. It won't disappear from the town records. Today you are witnesses!""" 
Ruth4:11 Then the elders and all who were at the gate spoke. They said, ""We are witnesses. The woman is coming into your home. May the Lord make her to be like Rachel and Leah. Together they built up the nation of Israel. May you be an important person in Ephrathah. May you be famous in Bethlehem." 
Ruth4:12 The Lord will give you children through this young woman. May your family be like the family of Perez. He was the son Tamar had by Judah. 
Ruth4:13 So Boaz got married to Ruth. She became his wife. Then he made love to her. The Lord blessed her so that she became pregnant. And she had a son. 
Ruth4:14 The women said to Naomi, ""We praise the Lord. Today he has provided a family protector for you. May this child become famous all over Israel!" 
Ruth4:15 He will make your life new again. He'll take care of you when you are old. He's the son of your very own daughter-in-law. She loves you. She is better to you than seven sons. 
Ruth4:16 Then Naomi put the child on her lap and took care of him. 
Ruth4:17 The women who were living there said, ""Naomi has a son."" They named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David." 
Ruth4:18 Here is the family line of Perez. Perez was the father of Hezron. 
Ruth4:19 Hezron was the father of Ram. Ram was the father of Amminadab. 
Ruth4:20 Amminadab was the father of Nahshon. Nahshon was the father of Salmon. 
Ruth4:21 Salmon was the father of Boaz. Boaz was the father of Obed. 
Ruth4:22 Obed was the father of Jesse. And Jesse was the father of David. 
1Samuel1:1 A certain man from Ramathaim in the hill country of Ephraim was named Elkanah. He was the son of Jeroham. Jeroham was the son of Elihu. Elihu was the son of Tohu. Tohu was the son of Zuph. Elkanah belonged to the family line of Zuph. Elkanah lived in the territory of Ephraim. 
1Samuel1:2 Elkanah had two wives. One was named Hannah. The other was named Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah didn't." 
1Samuel1:3 Year after year Elkanah went up from his town to Shiloh. He went there to worship and sacrifice to the Lord who rules over all. Hophni and Phinehas served as priests of the Lord at Shiloh. They were the two sons of Eli. 
1Samuel1:4 Every time the day came for Elkanah to offer a sacrifice, he would give a share of the meat to his wife Peninnah. He would also give a share to each of her sons and daughters." 
1Samuel1:5 But he would give two shares of meat to Hannah. That's because he loved her. He also gave her two shares because the Lord had kept her from having children. 
1Samuel1:6 Peninnah teased Hannah to make her angry. She did it because the Lord had kept Hannah from having children. 
1Samuel1:7 Peninnah teased Hannah year after year. Every time Hannah would go up to the house of the Lord, Elkanah's other wife would tease her. She would keep doing it until Hannah cried and wouldn't eat." 
1Samuel1:8 Her husband Elkanah would speak to her. He would say, ""Hannah, why are you crying? Why don't you eat? Why are you so angry and unhappy? Don't I mean more to you than ten sons?""" 
1Samuel1:9 One time when they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, Hannah stood up. The priest Eli was sitting on a chair by the doorpost of the Lord's house." 
1Samuel1:10 Hannah was very bitter. She sobbed and sobbed. She prayed to the Lord. 
1Samuel1:11 She made a promise to him. She said, ""Lord, you rule over all. Please see how I'm suffering! Show concern for me! Don't forget about me! Please give me a son! If you do, I'll give him back to you. Then he will serve you all the days of his life. He'll never use a razor on his head. He'll never cut his hair.""" 
1Samuel1:12 As Hannah kept on praying to the Lord, Eli watched her lips." 
1Samuel1:13 She was praying in her heart. Her lips were moving. But she wasn't making a sound. Eli thought Hannah was drunk. 
1Samuel1:14 He said to her, ""How long will you keep on getting drunk? Get rid of your wine.""" 
1Samuel1:15 That's not true, sir,"" Hannah replied. ""I'm a woman who is deeply troubled. I haven't been drinking wine or beer. I was telling the Lord all of my troubles." 
1Samuel1:16 Don't think of me as an evil woman. I've been praying here because I'm very sad. My pain is so great. 
1Samuel1:17 Eli answered, ""Go in peace. May the God of Israel give you what you have asked him for.""" 
1Samuel1:18 She said, ""May you be pleased with me."" Then she left and had something to eat. Her face wasn't sad anymore." 
1Samuel1:19 Early the next morning Elkanah and his family got up. They worshiped the Lord. Then they went back to their home in Ramah. Elkanah made love to his wife Hannah. And the Lord showed concern for her. 
1Samuel1:20 After some time, Hannah became pregnant. She had a baby boy. She said, ""I asked the Lord for him."" So she named him Samuel." 
1Samuel1:21 Elkanah went up to Shiloh to offer the yearly sacrifice to the Lord. He also went there to keep a promise he had made. His whole family went with him. 
1Samuel1:22 But Hannah didn't go. She said to her husband, ""When the boy doesn't need me to nurse him anymore, I'll take him to the Lord's house. I'll give him to the Lord there. He'll stay there for the rest of his life.""" 
1Samuel1:23 Her husband Elkanah told her, ""Do what you think is best. Stay here at home until Samuel doesn't need you to nurse him anymore. May the Lord make his promise to you come true."" So Hannah stayed home. She nursed her son until he didn't need her milk anymore." 
1Samuel1:24 When the boy didn't need her to nurse him anymore, she took him with her to Shiloh. She took him there even though he was still very young. She brought him to the Lord's house. She brought along a bull that was three years old. She brought more than half a bushel of flour. She also brought a bottle of wine. The bottle was made out of animal skin." 
1Samuel1:25 After the bull was killed, Elkanah and Hannah brought the boy to Eli." 
1Samuel1:26 Hannah said to Eli, ""Sir, I'm the woman who stood here beside you praying to the Lord. And that's just as sure as you are alive." 
1Samuel1:27 I prayed for this child. The Lord has given me what I asked him for. 
1Samuel1:28 So now I'm giving him to the Lord. As long as he lives he'll be given to the Lord. And all of them worshiped the Lord there. 
1Samuel2:1 Then Hannah prayed. She said, ""The Lord has filled my heart with joy. He has made me strong. I can laugh at my enemies. I'm so glad he saved me." 
1Samuel2:2 There isn't anyone holy like the Lord. There isn't anyone except him. There isn't any Rock like our God. 
1Samuel2:3 Don't keep talking so proudly. Don't let your mouth say such proud things. The Lord is a God who knows everything. He judges everything people do. 
1Samuel2:4 The bows of great heroes are broken. But those who trip and fall are made strong. 
1Samuel2:5 Those who used to be full have to work for food. But those who used to be hungry aren't hungry anymore. The woman who couldn't have children has seven of them now. But the woman who has had many children is sad now because hers have died. 
1Samuel2:6 The Lord causes people to die. He also gives people life. He brings people down to the grave. He also brings people up. 
1Samuel2:7 The Lord makes people poor. He also makes people rich. He brings people down. He also lifts people up. 
1Samuel2:8 He raises poor people up from the trash pile. He lifts needy people out of the ashes. He lets them sit with princes. He gives them places of honor. The foundations of the earth belong to the Lord. On them he has set the world. 
1Samuel2:9 He guards the paths of those who are faithful to him. But evil people will lie silent in their dark graves. People don't win just because they are strong. 
1Samuel2:10 Those who oppose the Lord will be totally destroyed. He will thunder against them from heaven. He will judge the earth from one end to the other. He will give power to his king. He will give honor to his anointed one. 
1Samuel2:11 Then Elkanah went home to Ramah. But the boy Samuel served the Lord under the direction of the priest Eli. 
1Samuel2:12 Eli's sons were evil men. They didn't know the Lord. 
1Samuel2:13 When anyone came to offer a sacrifice, here is what the priests would do. While the meat was being boiled, the servant of the priest would come with a large fork in his hand." 
1Samuel2:14 He would stick it into the pan or pot or small or large kettle. Then the priest would take for himself everything the fork brought up. That's how Eli's sons treated all of the people of Israel who came to Shiloh. 
1Samuel2:15 Even before the fat was burned, the servant of the priest would come over. He would speak to the man who was offering the sacrifice. He would say, ""Give the priest some meat to cook. He won't accept boiled meat from you. All he'll accept is raw meat.""" 
1Samuel2:16 Sometimes the man would say to him, ""Let the fat be burned up first. Then take what you want."" But the servant would answer, ""No. Hand it over right now. If you don't, I'll take it away from you by force.""" 
1Samuel2:17 That sin of Eli's sons was very great in the Lord's sight. That's because they were making fun of his offering. 
1Samuel2:18 But the boy Samuel served the Lord. He wore a sacred linen apron. 
1Samuel2:19 Each year his mother made him a little robe. She took it to him when she went up to Shiloh with her husband. She did it when her husband went to offer the yearly sacrifice. 
1Samuel2:20 Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife. He would say, ""May the Lord give you children by this woman. May they take the place of the boy she prayed for and gave to him."" Then they would go home." 
1Samuel2:21 The Lord was gracious to Hannah. She became pregnant. Over a period of years she had three more sons and two daughters. During that whole time the boy Samuel grew up serving the Lord. 
1Samuel2:22 Eli was very old. He kept hearing about everything his sons were doing to all of the people of Israel. He also heard how they were having sex with the women who served at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
1Samuel2:23 So Eli said to his sons, ""Why are you doing those things? All of the people are telling me about the evil things you are doing." 
1Samuel2:24 No, my sons. The report I hear isn't good. And it's spreading among the Lord's people." 
1Samuel2:25 If a man sins against someone else, God can help that sinner. But if a man sins against the Lord, who can help him?"" In spite of what their father Eli said, his sons didn't pay any attention to his warning. That's because the Lord had already decided to put them to death." 
1Samuel2:26 The boy Samuel continued to grow stronger. He also became more and more pleasing to the Lord and to people. 
1Samuel2:27 A man of God came to Eli. He told him, ""The Lord says, 'I made myself clearly known to your relatives who lived long ago. I did it when they were in Egypt under Pharaoh." 
1Samuel2:28 I chose your father Aaron to be my priest. I chose him out of all of the tribes of Israel. I told him to go up to my altar. I told him to burn incense. I chose him to wear a linen apron when he served me. I also gave his family all of the offerings that are made with fire by the people of Israel. 
1Samuel2:29  'Why do all of you laugh at my sacrifices and offerings? I require them to be brought to the house where I live. Why do you honor your sons more than me? Why do you fatten yourselves on the best parts of every offering that is made by my people Israel?' 
1Samuel2:30 The Lord is the God of Israel. He announced, 'I promised that your family and the family of Aaron would serve me as priests forever.' ""But now the Lord announces, 'I will not let that happen! I will honor those who honor me. But I will turn away from those who look down on me." 
1Samuel2:31 The time is coming when I will cut your life short. I will also cut short the lives of those in your family. No man in your family line will grow old. 
1Samuel2:32  'You will see nothing but trouble in the house where I live. Good things will still happen to Israel. But no man in your family line will ever grow old. 
1Samuel2:33 A member of your family will serve me at my altar. But what he does will bring tears to your eyes. Your heart will be sad. And the rest of the men in your family line will die while they are still young. 
1Samuel2:34  'Something is going to happen to your two sons Hophni and Phinehas. When it does, it will show you that what I am saying is true. They will both die on the same day." 
1Samuel2:35  'I will raise up for myself a faithful priest. He will do what my heart and mind want him to do. I will make his family line very secure. They will always serve as priests to my anointed king. 
1Samuel2:36 Everyone who is left in your family line will come and bow down to him. They will beg him for a piece of silver and a crust of bread. They will say, ""Please give me a place to serve among the priests. Then I can have food to eat."" ' """ 
1Samuel3:1 The boy Samuel served the Lord under the direction of Eli. In those days the Lord didn't give many messages to his people. He didn't give them many visions. 
1Samuel3:2 One night Eli was lying down in his usual place. His eyes were becoming so weak he couldn't see very well. 
1Samuel3:3 Samuel was lying down in the Lord's house. That's where the ark of God was kept. The lamp of God was still burning. 
1Samuel3:4 The Lord called out to Samuel. Samuel answered, ""Here I am.""" 
1Samuel3:5 He ran over to Eli. He said, ""Here I am. You called out to me."" But Eli said, ""I didn't call you. Go back and lie down."" So he went and lay down." 
1Samuel3:6 Again the Lord called out, ""Samuel!"" Samuel got up and went to Eli. He said, ""Here I am. You called out to me."" ""My son,"" Eli said, ""I didn't call you. Go back and lie down.""" 
1Samuel3:7 Samuel didn't know the Lord yet. That's because the Lord still hadn't given him a message. 
1Samuel3:8 The Lord called out to Samuel for the third time. Samuel got up and went to Eli. He said, ""Here I am. You called out to me."" Then Eli realized that the Lord was calling the boy." 
1Samuel3:9 So Eli told Samuel, ""Go and lie down. If someone calls out to you again, say, 'Speak, Lord. I'm listening.' "" So Samuel went and lay down in his place." 
1Samuel3:10 The Lord came and stood there. He called out, just as he had done the other times. He said, ""Samuel! Samuel!"" Then Samuel replied, ""Speak. I'm listening.""" 
1Samuel3:11 The Lord said to Samuel, ""Pay attention! I am about to do something terrible in Israel. It will make the ears of everyone who hears about it ring." 
1Samuel3:12 At that time I will do everything to Eli and his family that I said I would. I will finish what I have started. 
1Samuel3:13 I told Eli I would punish his family forever. He knew his sons were sinning. He knew they were making fun of me. In spite of that, he failed to stop them." 
1Samuel3:14 So I took an oath and made a promise to the family of Eli. I said, 'The sins of Eli's family will never be paid for by bringing sacrifices or offerings.' """ 
1Samuel3:15 Samuel lay down until morning. Then he opened the doors of the Lord's house. He was afraid to tell Eli about the vision he had received. 
1Samuel3:16 But Eli called out to him. He said, ""Samuel, my son."" Samuel answered, ""Here I am.""" 
1Samuel3:17 What did the Lord say to you? Eli asked. Don't hide from me anything he told you. If you do, may God punish you greatly.""" 
1Samuel3:18 So Samuel told him everything. He didn't hide anything from him. Then Eli said, ""He is the Lord. Let him do what he thinks is best.""" 
1Samuel3:19 As Samuel grew up, the Lord was with him. He made everything Samuel said come true." 
1Samuel3:20 So all of the people of Israel recognized that Samuel really was a prophet of the Lord. Everyone from Dan all the way to Beersheba knew it. 
1Samuel3:21 The Lord continued to appear at Shiloh. There he made himself known to Samuel through the messages he gave him. 
1Samuel4:1 And Samuel gave those messages to all of the people of Israel. The people of Israel went out to fight against the Philistines. The Israelites camped at Ebenezer. The Philistines camped at Aphek. 
1Samuel4:2 The Philistines brought their forces together to fight against Israel. As the fighting spread, the men of Israel lost the battle to the Philistines. The Philistines killed about 4,000 of them on the field of battle." 
1Samuel4:3 The rest of the Israelite soldiers returned to camp. Then the elders asked them, ""Why did the Lord let the Philistines win the battle over us today? Let's bring the ark of the Lord's covenant from Shiloh. Let's take it with us. It will save us from the power of our enemies.""" 
1Samuel4:4 So the people sent men to Shiloh. They brought back the ark of the covenant of the Lord. He sits there on his throne between the cherubim. He is the One who rules over all. Eli's two sons Hophni and Phinehas were with the ark of the covenant of God in Shiloh. 
1Samuel4:5 The ark of the Lord's covenant was brought into the camp. Then all of the people of Israel shouted so loudly that the ground shook. 
1Samuel4:6 The Philistines heard the noise. They asked, ""What's all that shouting about in the Hebrew camp?"" Then the Philistines found out that the ark of the Lord had come into the camp." 
1Samuel4:7 So they were afraid. A god has come into their camp,"" they said. ""We're in trouble! Nothing like this has ever happened before." 
1Samuel4:8 How terrible it will be for us! Who will save us from the power of those mighty gods? They struck down the people of Egypt in the desert. They sent all kinds of plagues on them. 
1Samuel4:9 Philistines, be strong! Fight like men! If you don't, you will come under the control of the Hebrews. You will become their slaves, just as they have been your slaves. Fight like men!""" 
1Samuel4:10 So the Philistines fought. The people of Israel lost the battle. Every man ran back to his tent. A large number of them were killed. Israel lost 30,000 soldiers who were on foot." 
1Samuel4:11 The ark of God was captured. And Eli's two sons Hophni and Phinehas died. 
1Samuel4:12 That same day a man from the tribe of Benjamin ran from the front lines of the battle. He went to Shiloh. His clothes were torn. He had dust on his head. 
1Samuel4:13 When he arrived, there was Eli sitting on his chair. He was by the side of the road. He was watching because his heart was really concerned about the ark of God. The man entered the town and told everyone what had happened. Then the whole town cried out." 
1Samuel4:14 Eli heard the people crying out. He asked, ""What's the meaning of all of this noise?"" The man hurried over to Eli." 
1Samuel4:15 Eli was 98 years old. His eyes were so bad he couldn't see. 
1Samuel4:16 The man told Eli, ""I've just come from the front lines of the battle. I ran away from there this very day."" Eli asked, ""What happened, son?""" 
1Samuel4:17 The man who brought the news replied, ""Israel ran away from the Philistines. Large numbers of men in the army were wounded or killed. Your two sons Hophni and Phinehas are also dead. And the ark of God has been captured.""" 
1Samuel4:18 When the man spoke about the ark of God, Eli fell backward off his chair. He had been sitting by the side of the gate. When he fell, he broke his neck and died. He was old and fat. He had led Israel for 40 years." 
1Samuel4:19 The wife of Phinehas was pregnant. She was Eli's daughter-in-law. It was near the time for her baby to be born. She heard the news that the ark of God had been captured. She heard that her father-in-law and her husband were dead. So she went into labor and had her baby. Her pain was so great that her life was slipping away. 
1Samuel4:20 As she was dying, the women who were helping her spoke up. They said, ""Don't be afraid. You have had a son."" But she didn't reply. She didn't pay any attention." 
1Samuel4:21 She named the boy Ichabod. She said, ""The God of glory has left Israel."" She said it because the ark of God had been captured. She also said it because her father-in-law and her husband had died." 
1Samuel4:22 She said, ""The God of glory has left Israel."" She said it because the ark of God had been captured." 
1Samuel5:1 The Philistines had captured the ark of God. They took it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. 
1Samuel5:2 They carried the ark into the temple of their god Dagon. They set it down beside the statue of Dagon. 
1Samuel5:3 The people of Ashdod got up early the next day. They saw the statue of Dagon. There it was, lying on the ground! It had fallen on its face in front of the ark of the Lord. So they picked the statue of Dagon up. They put it back in its place." 
1Samuel5:4 But the following morning when they got up, they saw the statue of Dagon. There it was, lying on the ground again! It had fallen on its face in front of the ark of the Lord. Its head and hands had been broken off. Only the body of the statue was left. Its head and hands were lying in the doorway of the temple." 
1Samuel5:5 That's why to this very day no one steps on the bottom part of the doorway of Dagon's temple at Ashdod. Not even the priests of Dagon step there. 
1Samuel5:6 The Lord's powerful hand punished the people of Ashdod and the settlements that were near it. He destroyed them. He made them suffer with growths in their bodies. 
1Samuel5:7 The people of Ashdod saw what was happening. They said, ""The ark of the god of Israel must not stay here with us. His powerful hand is punishing us and our god Dagon.""" 
1Samuel5:8 So they called all of the rulers of the Philistines together. They asked them, ""What should we do with the ark of the god of Israel?"" The rulers answered, ""Have the ark moved to Gath."" So they moved it." 
1Samuel5:9 But after the people of Ashdod had moved the ark, the Lord's hand punished Gath. That threw its people into a great panic. The Lord made them break out with growths in their bodies. It happened to young people and old people alike." 
1Samuel5:10 So the ark of God was sent to Ekron. As the ark was entering Ekron, the people of the city cried out. They shouted, ""They've brought the ark of the god of Israel to us. They want to kill us and our people.""" 
1Samuel5:11 So they called all of the rulers of the Philistines together. They said, ""Send the ark of the god of Israel away. Let it go back to its own place. If you don't, it will kill us and our people."" The death of so many people had filled the city with panic. God's powerful hand was punishing the city." 
1Samuel5:12 Those who didn't die suffered with growths in their bodies. The people of Ekron cried out to heaven for help. 
1Samuel6:1 The ark of the Lord had been in Philistine territory for seven months. 
1Samuel6:2 The Philistines called for the priests and for those who practice evil magic. They wanted their advice. They said to them, ""What should we do with the ark of the Lord? Tell us how we should send it back to its place.""" 
1Samuel6:3 They answered, ""If you return the ark of the god of Israel, don't send it away empty. Be sure you send a guilt offering to their god along with it. Then you will be healed. You will find out why his hand hasn't stopped punishing you.""" 
1Samuel6:4 The Philistines asked, ""What guilt offering should we send to him?"" Their advisers replied, ""There are five Philistine rulers. So send five gold models of the growths that are in your bodies. Also send five gold models of rats. Do it because the same plague has struck you and your rulers alike." 
1Samuel6:5 Make models of the growths and of the rats that are destroying the country. Pay honor to Israel's god. Perhaps his hand will stop punishing you. Maybe it will stop punishing your gods and your land. 
1Samuel6:6 Why are you stubborn, as Pharaoh and the people of Egypt were? God was very hard on them. Only then did they send the people of Israel out. Only then did they let them go on their way." 
1Samuel6:7 Now then, get a new cart ready. Get two cows that have just had calves. Be sure the cows have never pulled a cart before. Tie the cart to them. But take their calves away and put them in a pen." 
1Samuel6:8 Then put the ark of the Lord on the cart. Put the gold models in a chest beside the ark. Send them back to the Lord as a guilt offering. Send the cart on its way. 
1Samuel6:9 But keep an eye on the cart. See if it goes up toward Beth Shemesh to its own territory. If it does, then it's the Lord who has brought this horrible trouble on us. But if it doesn't, then we'll know it wasn't his hand that struck us. We'll know it happened to us by chance.""" 
1Samuel6:10 So that's what they did. They took the two cows and tied the cart to them. They put the calves in a pen. 
1Samuel6:11 They placed the ark of the Lord on the cart. They put the chest there along with it. The chest held the gold models of the rats and of the growths. 
1Samuel6:12 Then the cows went straight up toward Beth Shemesh. They stayed on the road. They were mooing all the way. They didn't turn to the right or the left. The Philistine rulers followed them all the way to the border of Beth Shemesh. 
1Samuel6:13 The people of Beth Shemesh were working in the valley. They were gathering their wheat crop. They looked up and saw the ark. When they saw it, they were filled with joy." 
1Samuel6:14 The cart came to the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh. It stopped there beside a large rock. The people chopped up the wood the cart was made out of. They sacrificed the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. 
1Samuel6:14 The cart came to the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh. It stopped there beside a large rock. The people chopped up the wood the cart was made out of. They sacrificed the cows as a burnt offering to the Lord. 
1Samuel6:15 Some Levites had taken the ark of the Lord off the cart. They had also taken off the chest that held the gold models. They placed them on the large rock. On that day the people of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings to the Lord. They also made sacrifices to him. 
1Samuel6:16 The five Philistine rulers saw everything that happened. On that same day they returned to Ekron. 
1Samuel6:17 The Philistines sent gold models of growths as a guilt offering to the Lord. There was one each for Ashdod, Gaza, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron." 
1Samuel6:18 They also sent five gold models of rats. There was one for each of the Philistine towns that belonged to the five rulers. Each of those towns had high walls around it. The towns also had country villages around them. The Levites set the ark of the Lord on a large rock. To this very day the rock gives witness to what happened there. It's in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh. 
1Samuel6:18 They also sent five gold models of rats. There was one for each of the Philistine towns that belonged to the five rulers. Each of those towns had high walls around it. The towns also had country villages around them. The Levites set the ark of the Lord on a large rock. To this very day the rock gives witness to what happened there. It's in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh. 
1Samuel6:19 But some of the people of Beth Shemesh looked into the ark of the Lord. So he struck them down. He put 70 of them to death. The rest of the people were filled with sorrow. That's because the Lord had killed so many of them. 
1Samuel6:20 The people of Beth Shemesh said, ""The Lord is a holy God. Who can stand in front of him? Where can the ark go up to from here?""" 
1Samuel6:21 Then messengers were sent to the people of Kiriath Jearim. They said, ""The Philistines have returned the ark of the Lord. Come down and take it up to your place.""" 
1Samuel7:1 So the men of Kiriath Jearim came and got the ark of the Lord. They took it up to Abinadab's house on the hill. They set his son Eleazar apart to guard the ark. 
1Samuel7:2 The ark remained at Kiriath Jearim for a long time. It was there for a full 20 years. All of the people of Israel were filled with sorrow. They looked to the Lord for help. 
1Samuel7:3 Samuel spoke to the whole community of Israel. He said, ""Do you really want to return to the Lord with all your hearts? If you do, get rid of your strange gods. Get rid of your statues of goddesses that are named after Ashtoreth. Commit yourselves to the Lord. Serve him only. Then he will save you from the powerful hand of the Philistines.""" 
1Samuel7:4 So the people of Israel put away their statues of gods that were named after Baal. They put away their statues of goddesses named after Ashtoreth. They served the Lord only. 
1Samuel7:5 Then Samuel said, ""Gather all of the people of Israel together at Mizpah. I will pray to the Lord for you.""" 
1Samuel7:6 When the people had come together at Mizpah, they went to the well and got water. They poured it out in the sight of the Lord. On that day they didn't eat any food. They admitted they had sinned. They said, ""We've sinned against the Lord."" Samuel was the leader of Israel at Mizpah." 
1Samuel7:7 The Philistines heard that Israel had gathered together at Mizpah. So the Philistine rulers came up to attack them. When the people of Israel heard about it, they were afraid." 
1Samuel7:8 They said to Samuel, ""Don't stop crying out to the Lord our God to help us. Keep praying that he'll save us from the powerful hand of the Philistines.""" 
1Samuel7:9 Then Samuel got a very young lamb. He sacrificed it as a whole burnt offering to the Lord. He cried out to the Lord to help Israel. And the Lord answered his prayer. 
1Samuel7:10 The Philistines came near to attack Israel. At that time Samuel was sacrificing the burnt offering. But that day the Lord thundered loudly against the Philistines. He threw them into such a panic that the Israelites were able to chase them away. 
1Samuel7:11 The men of Israel rushed out of Mizpah. They chased the Philistines all the way to a point below Beth Car. They killed them all along the way. 
1Samuel7:12 Then Samuel got a big stone. He set it up between Mizpah and Shen. He named it Ebenezer. He said, ""The Lord has helped us every step of the way.""" 
1Samuel7:13 So Samuel brought the Philistines under Israel's control. The Philistines didn't attack their territory again. The Lord used his powerful hand against the Philistines as long as Samuel lived. 
1Samuel7:14 The Philistines had captured many towns between Ekron and Gath. But they had to give all of them back. Israel took back the territories near those towns from the powerful hand of the Philistines. During that time Israel and the Amorites were friendly toward each other. 
1Samuel7:15 Samuel continued to lead Israel all the days of his life. 
1Samuel7:16 From year to year he traveled from Bethel to Gilgal to Mizpah. He served Israel as judge in all of those places. 
1Samuel7:17 But he always went back to Ramah. That's where his home was. He served Israel as judge there too. And he built an altar there to honor the Lord. 
1Samuel8:1 When Samuel became old, he appointed his sons to serve as judges for Israel." 
1Samuel8:2 The name of his oldest son was Joel. The name of his second son was Abijah. They served as judges at Beersheba. 
1Samuel8:2 The name of his oldest son was Joel. The name of his second son was Abijah. They served as judges at Beersheba. 
1Samuel8:3 But his sons didn't live as he did. They were only interested in making money. They accepted money from people who wanted special favors. They made things that were wrong appear to be right. 
1Samuel8:4 So all of the elders of Israel gathered together. They came to Samuel at Ramah. 
1Samuel8:5 They said to him, ""You are old. Your sons don't live as you do. So appoint a king to lead us. We want a king just like the kings all of the other nations have.""" 
1Samuel8:6 Samuel wasn't pleased when they said, ""Give us a king to lead us."" So he prayed to the Lord." 
1Samuel8:7 The Lord told him, ""Listen to everything the people are saying to you. You are not the one they have turned their backs on. I am the one they do not want as their king." 
1Samuel8:8 They are doing just as they have always done. They have deserted me and served other gods. They have done that from the time I brought them up out of Egypt until this very day. Now they are deserting you too. 
1Samuel8:9 Let them have what they want. But give them a strong warning. Let them know what the king who rules over them will do. 
1Samuel8:10 Samuel told the people who were asking him for a king everything the Lord had said. 
1Samuel8:11 Samuel told them, ""Here's what the king who rules over you will do. He will take your sons. He'll make them serve with his chariots and horses. They will run in front of his chariots." 
1Samuel8:12 He'll choose some of your sons to be commanders of thousands of men. Some will be commanders of fifties. Others will have to plow his fields and gather his crops. Still others will have to make weapons of war and parts for his chariots. 
1Samuel8:13 He'll also take your daughters. Some will have to make perfume. Others will be forced to cook and bake. 
1Samuel8:14 He will take away your best fields and vineyards and olive groves. He'll give them to his attendants. 
1Samuel8:15 He will take a tenth of your grain and a tenth of your grapes. He'll give it to his officials and attendants. 
1Samuel8:16 He will also take your male and female servants. He'll take your best cattle and donkeys. He'll use all of them any way he wants to. 
1Samuel8:17 He will take a tenth of your sheep and goats. You yourselves will become his slaves. 
1Samuel8:18 When that time comes, you will cry out for help because of the king you have chosen. But the Lord won't answer you at that time.""" 
1Samuel8:19 In spite of what Samuel said, the people refused to listen to him. ""No!"" they said. ""We want a king to rule over us." 
1Samuel8:20 Then we'll be like all of the other nations. We'll have a king to lead us. He'll go out at the head of our armies and fight our battles. 
1Samuel8:21 Samuel heard everything the people said. He told the Lord about it. 
1Samuel8:22 The Lord answered, ""Listen to them. Give them a king."" Then Samuel said to the men of Israel, ""Each of you go back to your own town.""" 
1Samuel9:1 There was a man named Kish from the tribe of Benjamin. Kish was a very important person. He was the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror. Zeror was the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah from the tribe of Benjamin." 
1Samuel9:2 Kish had a son named Saul. Saul was a handsome young man. There wasn't anyone like him among the people of Israel. He was a head taller than any of them. 
1Samuel9:3 The donkeys that belonged to Saul's father Kish were lost. So Kish spoke to his son Saul. He said, ""Go and look for the donkeys. Take one of the servants with you.""" 
1Samuel9:4 Saul and his servant went through the hill country of Ephraim. They also went through the area around Shalisha. But they didn't find the donkeys. So they went on into the area of Shaalim. But the donkeys weren't there either. Then Saul went through the territory of Benjamin. But they still didn't find the donkeys. 
1Samuel9:5 When Saul and the servant who was with him reached the area of Zuph, Saul spoke to him. He said, ""Come on. Let's go back. If we don't, my father will stop thinking about the donkeys and start worrying about us.""" 
1Samuel9:6 But the servant replied, ""There's a man of God here in Ramah. People have a lot of respect for him. Everything he says comes true. So let's go and see him now. Perhaps he'll tell us which way to go.""" 
1Samuel9:7 Saul said to his servant, ""If we go to see the man, what can we give him? There isn't any food in our sacks. We don't have a gift for the man of God. So what can we give him?""" 
1Samuel9:8 The servant answered Saul again. Look,"" he said. ""I've got a tenth of an ounce of silver. I'll give it to the man of God. Then maybe he'll tell us which way to go.""" 
1Samuel9:9 In Israel, prophets used to be called seers. So if a man wanted to ask God for advice, he would say, ""Come on. Let's go to the seer.""" 
1Samuel9:10 Saul said to his servant, ""That's a good idea. Come on. Let's go and ask the seer."" So they started out for the town where the man of God lived." 
1Samuel9:11 They were going up the hill toward the town. Along the way they met some young women who were coming out to get water from the well. Saul and his servant asked them, ""Is the seer here?""" 
1Samuel9:12 Yes, he is,"" they answered. ""In fact, he's just up ahead of you. So hurry along. He has just come to our town today. The people are going to offer a sacrifice at the high place where they worship." 
1Samuel9:13 As soon as you enter the town, you will find him. He'll be there until he goes up to the high place to eat. The people won't start eating until he gets there. He must bless the sacrifice first. After that, those who are invited will eat. So go on up. You should find him there just about now.""" 
1Samuel9:14 They went up to the town. As they were entering it, they saw Samuel. He was coming toward them. He was on his way up to the high place." 
1Samuel9:15 The Lord had spoken to Samuel the day before Saul came. He had said," 
1Samuel9:16 About this time tomorrow I will send you a man. He is from the land of Benjamin. Anoint him to be the leader of my people Israel. He will save them from the powerful hand of the Philistines. I have seen how much my people are suffering. Their cry for help has reached me. 
1Samuel9:17 When Samuel saw a man coming toward him, the Lord spoke to Samuel again. He said, ""He is the man I told you about. His name is Saul. He will govern my people.""" 
1Samuel9:18 Saul approached Samuel at the gate of the town. He asked Samuel, ""Can you please show me the house where the seer is staying?""" 
1Samuel9:19 I'm the seer,"" Samuel replied. ""Go on up to the high place ahead of me. I want you and your servant to eat with me today. Tomorrow morning I'll tell you what's on your mind. Then I'll let you go." 
1Samuel9:20 Don't worry about the donkeys you lost three days ago. They've already been found. But who are all of the people of Israel longing for? You and your father's whole family! 
1Samuel9:21 Saul answered, ""But I'm from the tribe of Benjamin. It's the smallest tribe in Israel. And my family group is the least important in the whole tribe of Benjamin. So why are you saying that to me?""" 
1Samuel9:22 Then Samuel brought Saul and his servant into the room where they would be eating. He seated them at the head table. About 30 people had been invited. 
1Samuel9:23 Samuel said to the cook, ""Bring the piece of meat I gave you. It's the one I told you to put to one side.""" 
1Samuel9:24 So the cook went and got a choice piece of thigh. He set it in front of Saul. Samuel said, ""Here is what has been kept for you. Eat it. It was put to one side for you for this special occasion. We've saved it for you ever since I invited the guests."" And Saul ate with Samuel that day." 
1Samuel9:25 They came down from the high place to the town. After that, Samuel talked with Saul on the roof of Samuel's house." 
1Samuel9:26 The next day they got up at about the time the sun was rising. Samuel called out to Saul on the roof. He said, ""Get ready. Then I'll send you on your way."" So Saul got ready. And he and Samuel went outside together." 
1Samuel9:27 As they were on their way down to the edge of town, Samuel spoke to Saul. He said, ""Tell the servant to go ahead of us."" So the servant went on ahead. Then Samuel continued, ""Stay here awhile. I'll give you a message from God.""" 
1Samuel10:1 Then Samuel took a bottle of olive oil. He poured it on Saul's head and kissed him. He said, ""The Lord has anointed you to be the leader of his people." 
1Samuel10:2 When you leave me today, you will meet two men. They will be near Rachel's tomb at Zelzah on the border of Benjamin. They'll say to you, 'The donkeys you have been looking for have been found. Now your father has stopped thinking about them. Instead, he's worried about you. He's asking, ""What can I do to find my son?"" '" 
1Samuel10:3 You will go on from Zelzah until you come to the large tree at Tabor. Three men will meet you there. They'll be on their way up to Bethel to worship God. One of them will be carrying three young goats. Another will be carrying three loaves of bread. A third will be carrying a bottle of wine. It will be a bottle that is made out of animal skin. 
1Samuel10:4 The men will greet you. They'll offer you two loaves of bread. You will accept the loaves from them. 
1Samuel10:5 After that, you will go to Gibeah of God. Some Philistine soldiers are stationed there. As you approach the town, you will meet a group of prophets. They'll be coming down from the high place where they worship. People will be playing lyres, tambourines, flutes and harps at the head of the group. The prophets will be prophesying." 
1Samuel10:6 The Spirit of the Lord will come on you with power. Then you will prophesy along with them. You will become a different person. 
1Samuel10:7 All of those things will happen. Then do what you want to do. God is with you. 
1Samuel10:8 Go down ahead of me to Gilgal. You can be sure that I'll come down to you there. I'll come and sacrifice burnt offerings and friendship offerings. But you must wait there for seven days until I come to you. Then I'll tell you what to do. 
1Samuel10:9 As Saul turned to leave Samuel, God changed Saul's heart. All of those things happened that day." 
1Samuel10:10 When Saul and his servant arrived at Gibeah, a group of prophets met Saul. Then the Spirit of God came on him with power. He prophesied along with them." 
1Samuel10:11 Those who had known Saul before saw him prophesying with the prophets. They asked one another, ""What has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also one of the prophets?""" 
1Samuel10:12 A man who lived in Gibeah answered, ""Yes, he is. In fact, he's their leader."" That's why people say, ""Is Saul also one of the prophets?""" 
1Samuel10:13 After Saul stopped prophesying, he went to the high place to worship." 
1Samuel10:14 Later, Saul's uncle spoke to him and his servant. He asked, ""Where have you been?"" ""Looking for the donkeys,"" he said. ""But we couldn't find them. So we went to Samuel.""" 
1Samuel10:15 Saul's uncle said, ""Tell me what Samuel said to you.""" 
1Samuel10:16 Saul replied, ""He told us the donkeys had been found."" But Saul didn't tell his uncle that Samuel had said he would become king." 
1Samuel10:17 Samuel sent a message to the people of Israel. He told them to meet with the Lord at Mizpah. 
1Samuel10:18 He said to them, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt. I saved you from their powerful hand. I also saved you from the powerful hand of all of the kingdoms that had beaten you down.'" 
1Samuel10:19 But now you have turned your backs on your God. He saves you out of all of your trouble and suffering. In spite of that, you have said, 'We refuse to listen. Place a king over us.' ""So now gather together to meet with the Lord. Do it tribe by tribe and family group by family group.""" 
1Samuel10:20 Then Samuel had each tribe of Israel come forward. The tribe of Benjamin was chosen. 
1Samuel10:21 Next he had the tribe of Benjamin come forward, family group by family group. Matri's group was chosen. Finally Saul, the son of Kish, was chosen. But when people looked for him, they realized he wasn't there." 
1Samuel10:22 They needed more help from the Lord. So they asked him, ""Has the man come here yet?"" The Lord said, ""Yes. He has hidden himself among the supplies.""" 
1Samuel10:23 So they ran over there and brought him out. When he stood up, the people saw that he was a head taller than any of them." 
1Samuel10:24 Samuel spoke to all of the people. He said, ""Look at the man the Lord has chosen! There isn't anyone like him among all of the people."" Then the people shouted, ""May the king live a long time!""" 
1Samuel10:25 Samuel explained to the people what the king who ruled over them should do. He wrote it down on a scroll. He placed it in front of the Lord in the holy tent. Then he sent the people away. He sent each of them to their own homes. 
1Samuel10:26 Saul also went to his home in Gibeah. Some brave men whose hearts God had touched went with Saul. 
1Samuel10:27 But some evil people who wanted to stir up trouble said, ""How can this fellow save us?"" They looked down on him. They didn't bring him any gifts. But Saul kept quiet about it." 
1Samuel11:1 Nahash was the king of Ammon. He and his army went up to Jabesh Gilead. They surrounded it and got ready to attack it. All of the men of Jabesh spoke to Nahash. They said, ""Make a peace treaty with us. Then we'll be under your control.""" 
1Samuel11:2 Nahash, the king of Ammon, replied, ""I will make a peace treaty with you. But I'll do it only on one condition. You must let me put out the right eye of every one of you. I want to bring shame on the whole nation of Israel.""" 
1Samuel11:3 The elders of Jabesh said to him, ""Give us seven days to report back to you. We'll send messengers all through Israel. If no one comes to save us, we'll hand ourselves over to you.""" 
1Samuel11:4 The messengers came to Gibeah of Saul. They reported to the people the terms Nahash had required. Then all of the people sobbed out loud. 
1Samuel11:5 Just then Saul was coming in from the fields. He was walking behind his oxen. He asked, ""What's wrong with the people? Why are they sobbing?"" He was told what the men of Jabesh had said." 
1Samuel11:6 When Saul heard their words, the Spirit of God came on him with power. He burned with anger." 
1Samuel11:7 He got a pair of oxen and cut them into pieces. He sent the pieces by messengers all through Israel. They announced, ""You must follow Saul and Samuel. If you don't, this is what will happen to your oxen."" The terror of the Lord fell on the people. So all of them came together with one purpose in mind." 
1Samuel11:8 Saul brought his army together at Bezek. There were 300,000 men from Israel and 30,000 from Judah." 
1Samuel11:9 The messengers who had come were told, ""Go back and report to the men of Jabesh Gilead. Tell them, 'By the hottest time of the day tomorrow, you will be saved.' "" The messengers went and reported it to the men of Jabesh. It made those men very happy." 
1Samuel11:10 They said to the people of Ammon, ""Tomorrow we'll hand ourselves over to you. Then you can do to us what seems best to you.""" 
1Samuel11:11 The next day Saul separated his men into three groups. While it was still dark, they broke into the camp of the Ammonite army. They kept killing the men of Ammon until the hottest time of the day. Those who got away alive were scattered. There weren't two of them left together anywhere." 
1Samuel11:12 The people said to Samuel, ""Who asked, 'Is Saul going to rule over us?' Bring those people to us. We'll put them to death.""" 
1Samuel11:13 But Saul said, ""We won't put anyone to death today! After all, this is the day the Lord has saved Israel.""" 
1Samuel11:14 Then Samuel said to the people, ""Come on. Let's go to Gilgal. There we'll agree to have Saul as our king.""" 
1Samuel11:15 So all of the people went to Gilgal. There, with the Lord as witness, they agreed to have Saul as their king. There they sacrificed friendship offerings to the Lord. And there Saul and all of the people of Israel celebrated with great joy." 
1Samuel12:1 Samuel spoke to all of the people of Israel. He said, ""I've done everything you asked me to do. I've placed a king over you." 
1Samuel12:2 Now you have a king as your leader. But I'm old. My hair is gray. My sons are here with you. I've been your leader from the time I was young until this very day. 
1Samuel12:3 Here I stand. Bring charges against me if you can. The Lord is a witness. And so is his anointed king. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Have I cheated anyone? Have I beaten anyone down? Have I accepted money from anyone who wanted special favors? If I've done any of those things, I'll make it right.""" 
1Samuel12:4 You haven't cheated us,"" they replied. ""You haven't beaten us down. You haven't taken anything from anyone.""" 
1Samuel12:5 Samuel said to them, ""The Lord is a witness against you this very day. And so is his anointed king. They are witnesses that I haven't taken anything from any of you."" ""The Lord is a witness,"" they said." 
1Samuel12:6 Then Samuel said to the people, ""The Lord appointed Moses and Aaron. He brought up out of Egypt your people who lived long ago." 
1Samuel12:7 Now then, stand here. I'm going to remind you of all of the good things the Lord has done for you and your people. He is a witness." 
1Samuel12:8 After Jacob's family entered Egypt, they cried out to the Lord for help. The Lord sent Moses and Aaron. They brought your people out of Egypt. They settled them in this land." 
1Samuel12:9 But the people forgot the Lord their God. So he gave them over to the powerful hand of Sisera. Sisera was the commander of the army of Hazor. The Lord also gave the people of Israel over to the powerful hand of the Philistines and the king of Moab. All of those nations fought against Israel. 
1Samuel12:10 So the people cried out to the Lord. They said, 'We have sinned. We've deserted the Lord. We've served the gods that are named after Baal. We've served the goddesses that are named after Ashtoreth. But save us now from the powerful hands of our enemies. Then we will serve you.'" 
1Samuel12:11 The Lord sent Gideon, Barak, Jephthah and me. He saved you from the hands of your enemies, who were all around you. So you lived in safety." 
1Samuel12:12 But then you saw that Nahash, the king of Ammon, was about to attack you. So you said to me, 'No! We want a king to rule over us.' You said it even though the Lord your God was your king." 
1Samuel12:13 Now here is the king you have chosen. He's the one you asked for. The Lord has placed a king over you. 
1Samuel12:14 But you must have respect for the Lord. You must serve him and obey him. You must not say no to his commands. Both you and the king who rules over you must follow the Lord your God. If you do, that's good." 
1Samuel12:15 But you must not disobey him. You must not say no to his commands. If you do, his powerful hand will punish you. That's what happened to your people who lived before you." 
1Samuel12:16 So stand still. Watch the great thing the Lord is about to do right here in front of you! 
1Samuel12:17 It's time to gather in the wheat, isn't it? I'll call out to the Lord to send thunder and rain. Then you will realize what an evil thing you did in the sight of the Lord. You shouldn't have asked for a king.""" 
1Samuel12:18 Samuel called out to the Lord. That same day the Lord sent thunder and rain. So all of the people had great respect for the Lord and for Samuel. 
1Samuel12:19 They said to Samuel, ""Pray to the Lord your God for us. Pray that we won't die because we asked for a king. That was an evil thing to do. We added it to all of our other sins.""" 
1Samuel12:20 Don't be afraid,"" Samuel replied. ""It's true that you have done all of those evil things. But don't turn away from the Lord. Serve him with all your heart." 
1Samuel12:21 Don't turn away and worship statues of gods. They are useless. They can't do you any good. They can't save you either. They are completely useless. 
1Samuel12:22 But the Lord will be true to his great name. He won't turn his back on his people. That's because he was pleased to make you his own people. 
1Samuel12:23 I would never sin against the Lord by failing to pray for you. I'll teach you to live in a way that is good and right. 
1Samuel12:24 But be sure to have respect for the Lord. Serve him faithfully. Do it with all your heart. Think about the great things he has done for you. 
1Samuel12:25 But don't be stubborn. Don't continue to do what is evil. If you do, both you and your king will be swept away.""" 
1Samuel13:1 Saul was 30 years old when he became king. He ruled over Israel for 42 years. 
1Samuel13:2 He chose 3,000 of Israel's men. Two thousand of them were with him at Micmash and in the hill country of Bethel. One thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in the land of Benjamin. Saul sent the rest back to their homes." 
1Samuel13:3 Some Philistine soldiers were stationed at Geba. Jonathan attacked them. The other Philistines heard about it. Saul announced, ""Let the Hebrew people hear about what has happened!"" He had trumpets blown all through the land." 
1Samuel13:4 So all of the people of Israel heard the news. They were told, ""Saul has attacked the Philistine army camp at Geba. He has made Israel smell very bad to the Philistines."" The people of Israel were called out to join Saul at Gilgal." 
1Samuel13:5 The Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel. They had 3,000 chariots and 6,000 chariot drivers. Their soldiers were as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. They went up and camped at Micmash. It was east of Beth Aven." 
1Samuel13:6 The men of Israel saw that their army was in deep trouble. So they hid in caves and bushes. They hid among the rocks. They hid in pits and empty wells. 
1Samuel13:7 Some of them even went across the Jordan River. They went to the lands of Gad and Gilead. Saul remained at Gilgal. All of the troops who were with him were shaking with fear. 
1Samuel13:8 He waited seven days, just as Samuel had told him to. But Samuel didn't come to Gilgal. And Saul's men began to scatter." 
1Samuel13:9 So he said, ""Bring me the burnt offering and the friendship offerings."" Then he offered up the burnt offering." 
1Samuel13:10 Just as Saul finished offering the sacrifice, Samuel arrived. Saul went out to greet him." 
1Samuel13:11 What have you done? asked Samuel. Saul replied, ""I saw that the men were scattering. I saw that the Philistines were gathering together at Micmash. You didn't come when you said you would." 
1Samuel13:12 So I thought, 'Now the Philistines will come down to attack me at Gilgal. And I haven't asked the Lord to show us his favor.' So I felt I had to sacrifice the burnt offering.""" 
1Samuel13:13 You did a foolish thing,"" Samuel said. ""You haven't obeyed the command the Lord your God gave you. If you had, he would have made your kingdom secure over Israel for all time to come." 
1Samuel13:14 But now your kingdom won't last. The Lord has already looked for a man who is dear to his heart. He has appointed him leader of his people. That's because you haven't obeyed the Lord's command. 
1Samuel13:15 Then Samuel left Gilgal and went up to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin. Saul counted the men who stayed with him. The total number was about 600. 
1Samuel13:16 Saul and his son Jonathan were staying in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin. What was left of the army was there with them. At the same time, the Philistines camped at Micmash." 
1Samuel13:17 Three groups of soldiers went out from the Philistine camp to attack Israel. One group turned and went toward Ophrah in the area of Shual. 
1Samuel13:18 Another went toward Beth Horon. The third went toward the border that looked out over the Valley of Zeboim. That valley faces the desert. 
1Samuel13:19 There weren't any blacksmiths in the whole land of Israel. That's because the Philistines had said, ""The Hebrews might hire them to make swords or spears!""" 
1Samuel13:20 So all of the people of Israel had to go down to the Philistines. They had to go to them to get their plows, hoes, axes and sickles sharpened." 
1Samuel13:21 It cost a fourth of an ounce of silver to sharpen a plow or a hoe. It cost an eighth of an ounce to sharpen a pitchfork or an axe. That's also what it cost to put new tips on large sticks that were used to drive oxen. 
1Samuel13:22 So not one of Saul's or Jonathan's soldiers had a sword or spear in his hand when he went out to battle. Only Saul and his son Jonathan had those weapons. 
1Samuel13:23 A group of Philistine soldiers had gone out to the pass at Micmash. 
1Samuel14:1 One day Jonathan, the son of Saul, spoke to the young man who was carrying his armor. ""Come on,"" he said. ""Let's go over to the Philistine army camp on the other side of the pass."" But he didn't tell his father about it." 
1Samuel14:2 Saul was staying just outside Gibeah. He was under a pomegranate tree in Migron. He had about 600 men with him. 
1Samuel14:3 Ahijah was one of them. He was wearing a sacred linen apron. He was a son of Ichabod's brother Ahitub. Ahitub was the son of Eli's son Phinehas. Eli had been the Lord's priest in Shiloh. No one was aware that Jonathan had left. 
1Samuel14:4 Jonathan planned to go across the pass to reach the Philistine camp. But there was a cliff on each side of the pass. One cliff was called Bozez. The other was called Seneh. 
1Samuel14:5 One cliff stood on the north side of the pass toward Micmash. The other stood on the south side toward Geba. 
1Samuel14:6 Jonathan spoke to the young man who was carrying his armor. He said, ""Come on. Let's go over to the camp of those fellows who aren't circumcised. Perhaps the Lord will help us. If he does, it won't matter how many or how few of us there are. That won't keep the Lord from saving us.""" 
1Samuel14:7 Go ahead,"" the young man said. ""Do everything you have in mind. I'm with you all the way.""" 
1Samuel14:8 Jonathan said, ""Come on, then. We'll go across the pass toward the Philistines and let them see us." 
1Samuel14:9 Suppose they say to us, 'Wait there until we come to you.' Then we'll stay where we are. We won't go up to them." 
1Samuel14:10 But suppose they say, 'Come up to us.' Then we'll climb up. That will show us that the Lord has handed them over to us.""" 
1Samuel14:11 So Jonathan and the young man let the soldiers in the Philistine camp see them. Look! said the Philistines. Some of the Hebrews are crawling out of the holes they were hiding in. 
1Samuel14:12 The men in the Philistine camp shouted to Jonathan and the young man who was carrying his armor. They said, ""Come on up here. We'll teach you a thing or two."" So Jonathan said to the young man, ""Climb up after me. The Lord has handed them over to Israel.""" 
1Samuel14:13 Using his hands and feet, Jonathan climbed up. The young man was right behind him. Jonathan struck the Philistines down. The young man followed him and killed those who were still alive." 
1Samuel14:14 In that first attack, Jonathan and the young man killed about 20 men. They did it in an area of about half an acre." 
1Samuel14:15 Then panic struck the whole Philistine army. It struck those who were in the camp and the field. It struck those who were at the edge of the camp. It also struck those who were in the groups that had been sent out to attack Israel. The ground shook. It was a panic that God had sent. 
1Samuel14:16 Saul's lookouts at Gibeah in the land of Benjamin saw what was happening. They saw the Philistine army melting away in all directions. 
1Samuel14:17 Then Saul spoke to the men who were with him. He said, ""Bring the troops together. See who has left our camp."" When they did, they discovered that Jonathan and the young man who was carrying his armor weren't there." 
1Samuel14:18 Saul said to the priest Ahijah, ""Bring the ark of God."" At that time it was with the people of Israel." 
1Samuel14:19 While Saul was talking to the priest, the noise in the Philistine camp increased more and more. So Saul said to him, ""Stop what you are doing.""" 
1Samuel14:20 Then Saul and all of his men gathered together. They went to the battle. They saw that the Philistines were in total disorder. They were striking each other with their swords. 
1Samuel14:21 At an earlier time some of the Hebrews had been on the side of the Philistines. They had gone up with them to their camp. But now they changed sides. They joined the people of Israel who were with Saul and Jonathan. 
1Samuel14:22 Some of the people had hidden in the hill country of Ephraim. They heard that the Philistines were running away. They quickly joined the battle and chased after them. 
1Samuel14:23 So the Lord saved Israel that day. And the fighting continued on past Beth Aven. 
1Samuel14:24 The men of Israel became very hungry that day. That's because Saul had put the army under an oath. He had said, ""None of you must eat any food before evening comes. You must not eat until I've paid my enemies back for what they did. If you do, may you be under a curse!"" So none of the troops ate any food at all." 
1Samuel14:25 The whole army entered the woods. There was honey on the ground. 
1Samuel14:26 When they went into the woods, they saw the honey dripping out of a honeycomb. No one put any of the honey in his mouth. That's because they were afraid of the oath." 
1Samuel14:27 But Jonathan hadn't heard that his father had put the army under an oath. Jonathan had a long stick in his hand. He reached out and dipped the end of it into the honeycomb. He put some honey in his mouth. It gave him new life. 
1Samuel14:28 Then one of the soldiers told him, ""Your father put the army under a strong oath. He said, 'None of you must eat any food today. If you do, may you be under a curse!' That's why the men are weak and ready to faint.""" 
1Samuel14:29 Jonathan said, ""My father has made trouble for the country. See how I gained new life after I tasted a little of this honey." 
1Samuel14:30 Our soldiers took food from their enemies today. Suppose they had eaten some of it. How much better off they would have been! Even more Philistines would have been killed. 
1Samuel14:31 That day the men of Israel struck the Philistines down. They killed them from Micmash to Aijalon. By that time they were tired and worn out. 
1Samuel14:32 They grabbed what they had taken from their enemies. They killed some of the sheep, cattle and calves right there on the ground. They ate the meat while the blood was still in it." 
1Samuel14:33 Then someone said to Saul, ""Look! The men are sinning against the Lord. They're eating meat that still has blood in it."" Saul said to them, ""You have broken your promise. Roll a large stone over here at once.""" 
1Samuel14:34 He continued, ""Go out among the men. Tell them, 'Each of you bring me your cattle and sheep. Kill them here and eat them. Don't sin against the Lord by eating meat that still has blood in it.' "" So that night everyone brought the ox he had taken and killed it there." 
1Samuel14:35 Then Saul built an altar to honor the Lord. It was the first time he had done that. 
1Samuel14:36 Saul said, ""Let's go down after the Philistines tonight. Let's not leave even one of them alive. Let's take everything they have before it gets light."" ""Do what you think is best,"" they replied. But the priest said, ""Let's ask God for advice first.""" 
1Samuel14:37 So Saul asked God, ""Should I go down after the Philistines? Will you hand them over to Israel?"" But God didn't answer him that day." 
1Samuel14:38 Saul said to the leaders of the army, ""Come here. Let's find out what sin has been committed today." 
1Samuel14:39 You can be sure that the Lord who saves Israel lives. And you can be just as sure that the sinner must die. He must die even if he's my son Jonathan. But no one said anything. 
1Samuel14:40 Then Saul spoke to all of Israel's men. He said, ""You stand over there. I and my son Jonathan will stand over here."" ""Do what you think is best,"" the men replied." 
1Samuel14:41 Then Saul prayed to the Lord, the God of Israel. He said, ""Give me an answer."" Jonathan and Saul were chosen by using lots. The other men were cleared of blame." 
1Samuel14:42 Saul said, ""Cast the lot to find out whether I or my son Jonathan is to blame."" And Jonathan was chosen." 
1Samuel14:43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, ""Tell me what you have done."" So Jonathan told him, ""I only used the end of my stick to get a little honey and taste it. And now do I have to die?""" 
1Samuel14:44 Saul said, ""Jonathan, I must certainly put you to death. If I don't, may God punish me greatly.""" 
1Samuel14:45 But the men said to Saul, ""Should Jonathan be put to death? Never! He has saved Israel in a wonderful way. He did it today with God's help. You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that not even one hair on Jonathan's head will fall to the ground."" So the men saved Jonathan. He wasn't put to death." 
1Samuel14:46 Then Saul stopped chasing the Philistines. They went back to their own land. 
1Samuel14:47 After Saul's kingdom was set firmly in place in Israel, he fought against their enemies who were all around them. He went to war against Moab, Ammon and Edom. He fought against the kings of Zobah and the Philistines. No matter where he went, he punished his enemies." 
1Samuel14:48 He fought bravely. He won the battle over the Amalekites. He saved Israel from the power of those who had carried off what belonged to Israel. 
1Samuel14:49 Saul's sons were Jonathan, Ishvi and Malki-Shua. His older daughter was named Merab. His younger daughter was named Michal." 
1Samuel14:50 Saul's wife was named Ahinoam. She was the daughter of Ahimaaz. The commander of Saul's army was named Abner. He was the son of Ner. Ner was Saul's uncle. 
1Samuel14:51 Saul's father Kish and Abner's father Ner were sons of Abiel. 
1Samuel14:52 As long as Saul was king, he had to fight hard against the Philistines. So every time Saul saw a strong or brave man, he took him into his army." 
1Samuel15:1 Samuel said to Saul, ""The Lord sent me to anoint you as king over his people Israel. So listen now to a message from him." 
1Samuel15:2 The Lord who rules over all says, 'I will punish the Amalekites because of what they did to Israel. As the people of Israel came up from Egypt, the Amalekites attacked them." 
1Samuel15:3  'Now go. Attack the Amalekites. Set everything apart that belongs to them. Set it apart to me in a special way to be destroyed. Do not spare the Amalekites. Put the men and women to death. Put the children and babies to death. Also kill the cattle, sheep, camels and donkeys.' """ 
1Samuel15:4 So Saul brought his men together at Telaim. The total number was 200,000 soldiers on foot from Israel and 10,000 men from Judah." 
1Samuel15:5 He went to the city of Amalek. He had some of his men hide and wait in the valley. 
1Samuel15:6 Then Saul said to the Kenites, ""You were kind to all of the people of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. Get away from the Amalekites. Then I won't have to destroy you along with them."" So the Kenites moved away from the Amalekites." 
1Samuel15:7 Saul attacked the Amalekites. He struck them down all the way from Havilah to Shur. Shur was near the eastern border of Egypt. 
1Samuel15:8 He took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive. He and his men totally destroyed all of Agag's people with swords." 
1Samuel15:9 But Saul and the army spared Agag. They spared the best of the sheep and cattle. They spared the fat calves and lambs. They spared everything that was valuable. They weren't willing to completely destroy any of those things. But they totally destroyed everything that was worthless and weak. 
1Samuel15:10 Then the Lord gave Samuel a message. He said," 
1Samuel15:11 I am very sorry I have made Saul king. He has turned away from me. He has not done what I directed him to do. When Samuel heard that, he was troubled. He cried out to the Lord during that whole night." 
1Samuel15:12 Early the next morning Samuel got up. He went to see Saul. But Samuel was told, ""Saul went to Carmel. There he set up a monument in his own honor. Now he has gone on down to Gilgal.""" 
1Samuel15:13 When Samuel got there, Saul said, ""May the Lord bless you. I've done what he directed me to do.""" 
1Samuel15:14 But Samuel said, ""Then why do I hear the baaing of sheep? Why do I hear the mooing of cattle?""" 
1Samuel15:15 Saul answered, ""The soldiers brought them from the Amalekites. They spared the best of the sheep and cattle. They did it to sacrifice them to the Lord your God. But we totally destroyed everything else.""" 
1Samuel15:16 Stop! Samuel said to Saul. Let me tell you what the Lord said to me last night. Tell me,"" Saul replied." 
1Samuel15:17 Samuel said, ""There was a time when you didn't think you were important. But you became the leader of the tribes of Israel. The Lord anointed you to be king over Israel." 
1Samuel15:18 He sent you to do something for him. He said, 'Go and set the Amalekites apart. Set those sinful people apart to me in a special way to be destroyed. Fight against them until you have wiped them out.'" 
1Samuel15:19 Why didn't you obey the Lord? Why did you grab what you had taken from your enemies? Why did you do what is evil in the sight of the Lord? 
1Samuel15:20 But I did obey the Lord,"" Saul said. ""I went to do what he sent me to do. I totally destroyed the Amalekites. I brought back Agag, their king." 
1Samuel15:21 The soldiers took sheep and cattle from what had been taken from our enemies. They took the best of what had been set apart to God. They wanted to sacrifice them to the Lord your God at Gilgal. 
1Samuel15:22 But Samuel replied, ""What pleases the Lord more? Burnt offerings and sacrifices, or obeying him? It is better to obey than to offer a sacrifice. It is better to do what he says than to offer the fat of rams." 
1Samuel15:23 Refusing to obey him is as sinful as using evil magic. Being proud is as evil as worshiping statues of gods. You have refused to do what the Lord told you to do. So he has refused to have you as king. 
1Samuel15:24 Then Saul said to Samuel, ""I have sinned. I've broken the Lord's command. I haven't done what you directed me to do. I was afraid of the people. So I did what they said I should do." 
1Samuel15:25 Now I beg you, forgive my sin. Come back into town with me so I can worship the Lord.""" 
1Samuel15:26 But Samuel said to him, ""I won't go back with you. You have refused to do what the Lord told you to do. So he has refused to have you as king over Israel!""" 
1Samuel15:27 Samuel turned to leave. But Saul grabbed hold of the hem of his robe, and it tore." 
1Samuel15:28 Samuel said to Saul, ""The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel away from you today. He has given it to one of your neighbors. He has given it to someone who is better than you." 
1Samuel15:29 The One who is the Glory of Israel does not lie. He doesn't change his mind. That's because he isn't a mere man. If he were, he might change his mind.""" 
1Samuel15:30 Saul replied, ""I have sinned. But please honor me in front of the elders of my people and in front of Israel. Come back with me so I can worship the Lord your God.""" 
1Samuel15:31 So Samuel went back with Saul. And Saul worshiped the Lord. 
1Samuel15:32 Then Samuel said, ""Bring me Agag, the king of the Amalekites."" Agag wasn't afraid when he came to Samuel. He thought, ""The time for me to be put to death must have passed by now.""" 
1Samuel15:33 But Samuel said, ""Your sword has killed the children of other women. So the child of your mother will be killed."" Samuel put Agag to death at Gilgal in the sight of the Lord." 
1Samuel15:34 Then Samuel left to go to Ramah. But Saul went up to his home in Gibeah of Saul. 
1Samuel15:35 Until the day Samuel died, he didn't go to see Saul again. Samuel was filled with sorrow because of Saul. And the Lord was very sorry he had made Saul king over Israel." 
1Samuel16:1 The Lord said to Samuel, ""How long will you be filled with sorrow because of Saul? I have refused to have him as king over Israel. Fill your animal horn with olive oil and go on your way. I am sending you to Jesse in Bethlehem. I have chosen one of his sons to be king.""" 
1Samuel16:2 But Samuel said, ""How can I go? Saul will hear about it. Then he'll kill me."" The Lord said, ""Take a young cow with you. Tell the elders of Bethlehem, 'I've come to offer a sacrifice to the Lord.'" 
1Samuel16:3 Invite Jesse to the sacrifice. Then I will show you what to do. You must anoint for me the one I point out to you. 
1Samuel16:4 Samuel did what the Lord said. He arrived at Bethlehem. The elders of the town met him. They were trembling with fear. They asked, ""Have you come in peace?""" 
1Samuel16:5 Samuel replied, ""Yes, I've come in peace. I've come to offer a sacrifice to the Lord. Set yourselves apart to him and come to the sacrifice with me."" Then he set Jesse and his sons apart to the Lord. He invited them to the sacrifice." 
1Samuel16:6 When they arrived, Samuel saw Eliab. He thought, ""This has to be the one the Lord wants me to anoint for him.""" 
1Samuel16:7 But the Lord said to Samuel, ""Do not consider how handsome or tall he is. I have not chosen him. I do not look at the things people look at. Man looks at how someone appears on the outside. But I look at what is in the heart.""" 
1Samuel16:8 Then Jesse called for Abinadab. He had him walk in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, ""The Lord hasn't chosen him either.""" 
1Samuel16:9 Then Jesse had Shammah walk by. But Samuel said, ""The Lord hasn't chosen him either.""" 
1Samuel16:10 Jesse had seven of his sons walk in front of Samuel. But Samuel said to him, ""The Lord hasn't chosen any of them.""" 
1Samuel16:11 So he asked Jesse, ""Are these the only sons you have?"" ""No,"" Jesse answered. ""My youngest son is taking care of the sheep."" Samuel said, ""Send for him. We won't sit down to eat until he arrives.""" 
1Samuel16:12 So Jesse sent for his son and had him brought in. His skin was tanned. He had a fine appearance and handsome features. Then the Lord said, ""Get up and anoint him. He is the one.""" 
1Samuel16:13 So Samuel got the animal horn that was filled with olive oil. He anointed David in front of his brothers. From that day on, the Spirit of the Lord came on David with power. Samuel went back to Ramah." 
1Samuel16:14 The Spirit of the Lord had left Saul. And an evil spirit that was sent by the Lord terrified him. 
1Samuel16:15 Saul's attendants said to him, ""An evil spirit that was sent by God is terrifying you." 
1Samuel16:16 Give us an order to look for someone who can play the harp. He will play it when the evil spirit that was sent by God comes on you. Then you will feel better. 
1Samuel16:17 So Saul said to his attendants, ""Find someone who plays the harp well. Bring him to me.""" 
1Samuel16:18 One of the servants said, ""I've seen someone who knows how to play the harp. He is a son of Jesse from Bethlehem. He's a brave man. He would make a good soldier. He's a good speaker. He's very handsome. And the Lord is with him.""" 
1Samuel16:19 Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse. He said, ""Send me your son David, the one who takes care of your sheep.""" 
1Samuel16:20 So Jesse got some bread and a bottle of wine. The bottle was made out of animal skin. He also got a young goat. He loaded everything on the back of a donkey. He sent all of it to Saul with his son David. 
1Samuel16:21 David went to Saul and began to serve him. Saul liked him very much. David became one of the men who carried Saul's armor. 
1Samuel16:22 Saul sent a message to Jesse. It said, ""Let David stay here. I want him to serve me. I'm pleased with him.""" 
1Samuel16:23 When the evil spirit that was sent by God would come on Saul, David would get his harp and play it. That would help Saul. He would feel better, and the evil spirit would leave him." 
1Samuel17:1 The Philistines gathered their army together for war. They came to Socoh in Judah. They set up camp at Ephes Dammim. It was between Socoh and Azekah. 
1Samuel17:2 Saul and the army of Israel gathered together. They camped in the Valley of Elah. They lined up their men to fight against the Philistines. 
1Samuel17:3 The Philistine army was camped on one hill. Israel's army was on another. The valley was between them. 
1Samuel17:4 A mighty hero named Goliath came out of the Philistine camp. He was from Gath. He was more than nine feet tall. 
1Samuel17:5 He had a bronze helmet on his head. He wore a coat of bronze armor. It weighed 125 pounds. 
1Samuel17:6 On his legs he wore bronze guards. He carried a bronze javelin on his back. 
1Samuel17:7 His spear was as big as a weaver's rod. Its iron point weighed 15 pounds. The man who carried his shield walked along in front of him. 
1Samuel17:8 Goliath stood and shouted to the soldiers of Israel. He said, ""Why do you come out and line up for battle? I'm a Philistine. You are servants of Saul. Choose one of your men. Have him come down and face me." 
1Samuel17:9 If he's able to fight and kill me, we'll become your slaves. But if I win and kill him, you will become our slaves and serve us.""" 
1Samuel17:10 Goliath continued, ""This very day I dare the soldiers of Israel to send a man down to fight against me.""" 
1Samuel17:11 Saul and the whole army of Israel heard what the Philistine said. They were terrified. 
1Samuel17:12 David was the son of an Ephrathite. His name was Jesse. He was from Bethlehem in Judah. Jesse had eight sons. When Saul was king, Jesse was already very old." 
1Samuel17:13 Jesse's three oldest sons had followed Saul into battle. The oldest son was Eliab. The second was Abinadab. The third was Shammah. 
1Samuel17:14 David was the youngest. The three oldest sons followed Saul. 
1Samuel17:15 But David went back and forth from Saul's camp to Bethlehem. He went to Bethlehem to take care of his father's sheep. 
1Samuel17:16 Every morning and evening Goliath came forward and stood there. He did it for 40 days. 
1Samuel17:17 Jesse said to his son David, ""Get at least half a bushel of grain that has been cooked. Also get ten loaves of bread. Take all of it to your brothers. Hurry to their camp." 
1Samuel17:18 Take along these ten chunks of cheese to the commander of their company. Find out how your brothers are doing. Bring me back some word about them. 
1Samuel17:19 They are with Saul and all of the men of Israel. They are in the Valley of Elah. They are fighting against the Philistines. 
1Samuel17:20 Early in the morning David left his father's flock in the care of a shepherd. David loaded up the food and started out, just as Jesse had directed. David reached the camp as the army was going out to its battle positions. The soldiers were shouting the war cry." 
1Samuel17:21 Israel and the Philistines were lining up their armies for battle. The armies were facing each other. 
1Samuel17:22 David left what he had brought with the man who took care of the supplies. He ran to the battle lines and greeted his brothers. 
1Samuel17:23 As David was talking with them, Goliath stepped forward from his line. Goliath was a mighty Philistine hero from Gath. He again dared someone to fight him, and David heard it." 
1Samuel17:24 When Israel's army saw Goliath, all of them ran away from him. That's because they were filled with fear." 
1Samuel17:25 The men of Israel had been saying, ""Just look at how this man keeps stepping forward! Again and again he dares Israel to fight him. The king will make the man who kills him very wealthy. He will also give him his daughter to be his wife. He won't require anyone in his family to pay any taxes in Israel.""" 
1Samuel17:26 David spoke to the men who were standing near him. He asked them, ""What will be done for the man who kills this Philistine? Goliath is bringing shame on Israel. What will be done for the one who removes it? This Philistine isn't even circumcised. He dares the armies of the living God to fight him. Who does he think he is?""" 
1Samuel17:27 The men told David what Israel's soldiers had been saying. The men told him what would be done for the man who killed Goliath. 
1Samuel17:28 David's oldest brother Eliab heard him speaking with the men. So he burned with anger at him. He asked him, ""Why have you come down here? Who did you leave those few sheep in the desert with? I know how proud you are. I know how evil your heart is. The only reason you came down here was to watch the battle.""" 
1Samuel17:29 What have I done now? said David. Can't I even speak? 
1Samuel17:30 Then he turned away to speak to some other men. He asked them the same question he had asked before. And they gave him the same answer. 
1Samuel17:31 Someone heard what David said and reported it to Saul. So Saul sent for him. 
1Samuel17:32 David said to Saul, ""Don't let anyone lose hope because of that Philistine. I'll go out and fight him.""" 
1Samuel17:33 Saul replied, ""You aren't able to go out there and fight that Philistine. You are too young. He's been a fighting man ever since he was a boy.""" 
1Samuel17:34 But David said to Saul, ""I've been taking care of my father's sheep. Sometimes a lion or a bear would come and carry off a sheep from the flock." 
1Samuel17:35 Then I would go after it and hit it. I would save the sheep it was carrying in its mouth. If it turned around to attack me, I would grab hold of its hair. I would strike it down and kill it." 
1Samuel17:36 In fact, I've killed both a lion and a bear. I'll do the same thing to this Philistine. He isn't even circumcised. He has dared the armies of the living God to fight him." 
1Samuel17:37 The Lord saved me from the paw of the lion. He saved me from the paw of the bear. And he'll save me from the powerful hand of this Philistine too. Saul said to David, ""Go. And may the Lord be with you.""" 
1Samuel17:38 Then Saul dressed David in his own military clothes. He put a coat of armor on him. He put a bronze helmet on his head. 
1Samuel17:39 David put on Saul's sword over his clothes. He walked around for a while in all of that armor because he wasn't used to it. I can't go out there in all of this armor,"" he said to Saul. ""I'm not used to it."" So he took it off." 
1Samuel17:40 Then David picked up his wooden staff. He went down to a stream and chose five smooth stones. He put them in the pocket of his shepherd's bag. Then he took his sling in his hand and approached Goliath. 
1Samuel17:41 At that same time, the Philistine kept coming closer to David. The man who was carrying Goliath's shield walked along in front of him." 
1Samuel17:42 Goliath looked David over. He saw how young he was. He also saw how tanned and handsome he was. And he hated him. 
1Samuel17:43 He said to David, ""Why are you coming at me with sticks? Do you think I'm only a dog?"" The Philistine called down curses on David in the name of his god." 
1Samuel17:44 Come over here,"" he said. ""I'll feed your body to the birds of the air! I'll feed it to the wild animals!""" 
1Samuel17:45 David said to Goliath, ""You are coming to fight against me with a sword, a spear and a javelin. But I'm coming against you in the name of the Lord who rules over all. He is the God of the armies of Israel. He's the one you have dared to fight against." 
1Samuel17:46 This very day the Lord will hand you over to me. I'll strike you down. I'll cut your head off. This very day I'll feed the bodies of the Philistine army to the birds of the air. I'll feed them to the wild animals. Then the whole world will know there is a God in Israel. 
1Samuel17:47 The Lord doesn't save by using a sword or a spear. And everyone who is here will know it. The battle belongs to the Lord. He will hand all of you over to us. 
1Samuel17:48 As the Philistine moved closer to attack him, David ran quickly to the battle line to meet him." 
1Samuel17:49 He reached into his bag. He took out a stone. He put it in his sling. He slung it at Goliath. The stone hit him on the forehead and sank into it. He fell to the ground on his face. 
1Samuel17:50 So David won the fight against Goliath with a sling and a stone. He struck the Philistine down and killed him. He did it without even using a sword. 
1Samuel17:51 David ran and stood over him. He took hold of Goliath's sword and pulled it out. After he killed him, he cut off his head with the sword. The Philistines saw that their hero was dead. So they turned around and ran away." 
1Samuel17:52 Then the men of Israel and Judah shouted and rushed forward. They chased the Philistines to the entrance of Gath. They chased them to the gates of Ekron. The dead bodies of the Philistines were scattered all along the road to Gath and Ekron. That's the road that leads to Shaaraim. 
1Samuel17:53 Israel's army returned from chasing the Philistines. They had taken everything from the Philistine camp. 
1Samuel17:54 David picked up Goliath's head. He brought it to Jerusalem. He put Goliath's weapons in his own tent. 
1Samuel17:55 Saul had been watching David as he went out to meet the Philistine. He spoke to Abner, the commander of the army. He said to him, ""Abner, whose son is that young man?"" Abner replied, ""King Saul, I don't know. And that's just as sure as you are alive.""" 
1Samuel17:56 The king said, ""Find out whose son that young man is.""" 
1Samuel17:57 After David killed Goliath, he returned to the camp. Then Abner brought him to Saul. David was still carrying Goliath's head." 
1Samuel17:58 Young man, whose son are you?"" Saul asked him. David said, ""I'm the son of Jesse from Bethlehem.""" 
1Samuel18:1 David finished talking with Saul. After that, Jonathan and David became close friends. Jonathan loved David just as he loved himself." 
1Samuel18:2 From that time on, Saul kept David with him. He didn't let him return to his father's home." 
1Samuel18:3 Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him just as he loved himself. 
1Samuel18:4 Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David. He also gave him his military clothes. He even gave him his sword, his bow and his belt." 
1Samuel18:5 David did everything Saul sent him to do. He did it so well that Saul gave him a high rank in the army. That pleased Saul's whole army, including his officers." 
1Samuel18:6 After David had killed Goliath, the men of Israel returned home. The women came out of all of the towns of Israel to meet King Saul. They danced and sang joyful songs. They played lutes and tambourines." 
1Samuel18:7 As they danced, they sang, ""Saul has killed thousands of men. David has killed tens of thousands.""" 
1Samuel18:8 That song made Saul very angry. It really upset him. He said to himself, ""They are saying David has killed tens of thousands of men. But they are saying I've killed only thousands. The only thing left for him to get is the kingdom itself.""" 
1Samuel18:9 From that time on, Saul became very jealous of David. So he watched him closely." 
1Samuel18:10 The next day an evil spirit that was sent by God came on Saul with power. Saul began to prophesy in his house. At that same time David began to play the harp, just as he usually did. Saul was holding a spear." 
1Samuel18:11 He threw it at David. As he did, he said to himself, ""I'll pin David to the wall."" But David got away from him twice." 
1Samuel18:12 The Lord had left Saul and was with David. So Saul was afraid of David. 
1Samuel18:13 He sent David away. He put him in command of 1,000 men. David led the troops in battle." 
1Samuel18:14 In everything he did, he was very successful. That's because the Lord was with him." 
1Samuel18:15 When Saul saw how successful David was, he became afraid of him." 
1Samuel18:16 But all of the troops of Israel and Judah loved David. That's because he led them in battle. 
1Samuel18:17 Saul said to David, ""Here is my older daughter Merab. I'll give her to you to be your wife. Just serve me bravely and fight the Lord's battles."" Saul said to himself, ""I won't have to lift my hand to strike him down. The Philistines will do that!""" 
1Samuel18:18 But David said to Saul, ""Who am I? Is anyone in my whole family that important in Israel? Am I worthy to become the king's son-in-law?""" 
1Samuel18:19 The time came for Saul to give his daughter Merab to David. Instead, Saul gave her to Adriel from Meholah to be his wife." 
1Samuel18:20 Saul's daughter Michal was in love with David. When they told Saul about it, he was pleased." 
1Samuel18:21 I'll give her to him to be his wife,"" he said to himself. ""Then maybe she'll trap him. And maybe the powerful hand of the Philistines will strike him down."" So Saul said to David, ""Now you have a second chance to become my son-in-law.""" 
1Samuel18:22 Then Saul gave an order to his attendants. He said, ""Speak to David in private. Tell him, 'The king is pleased with you. All of his attendants like you. So become his son-in-law.' """ 
1Samuel18:23 Saul's attendants spoke those very words to David. But David said, ""Do you think it's a small thing to become the king's son-in-law? I'm only a poor man. I'm not very well known.""" 
1Samuel18:24 Saul's attendants told him what David had said. 
1Samuel18:25 Saul said, ""Tell David, 'Here's the price the king wants for the bride. He wants you to kill 100 Philistines. Then bring back the skins you cut off when you circumcise them. That's how Saul will get even with his enemies.' "" Saul hoped that the powerful hand of the Philistines would strike David down." 
1Samuel18:26 Saul's attendants also told David those things. Then David was pleased to become the king's son-in-law. So before the day that was set for the wedding," 
1Samuel18:27 David and his men went out and killed 200 Philistines. They circumcised them. Then David brought all of the skins and gave them to the king. By doing that, he could become the king's son-in-law. So Saul gave David his daughter Michal to be his wife." 
1Samuel18:28 Saul realized that the Lord was with David. He also realized that his daughter Michal loved David. 
1Samuel18:29 So Saul became even more afraid of him. He remained David's enemy as long as he was king. 
1Samuel18:30 The Philistine commanders kept on going out to battle. Every time they did, David had more success against them than the rest of Saul's officers. So his name became well known." 
1Samuel19:1 Saul told his son Jonathan and all of the attendants to kill David. But Jonathan liked David very much. 
1Samuel19:2 So Jonathan warned him, ""My father Saul is looking for a chance to kill you. Be very careful tomorrow morning. Find a place to hide and stay there." 
1Samuel19:3 My father and I will come and stand in the field where you are hiding. I'll speak to him about you. Then I'll tell you what I find out. 
1Samuel19:4 Jonathan told his father Saul some good things about David. He said to him, ""Please don't do anything to harm David. He hasn't done anything to harm you. And what he's done has helped you a lot." 
1Samuel19:5 He put his own life in danger when he killed Goliath. The Lord used him to win a great battle for the whole nation of Israel. When you saw it, you were glad. So why would you do anything to harm a man like David? He isn't guilty of doing anything to harm you. Why would you want to kill him without any reason?""" 
1Samuel19:6 Saul paid attention to Jonathan. He took an oath and made a promise. He said, ""You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that David will not be put to death.""" 
1Samuel19:7 So Jonathan sent for David and told him everything he and Saul had said. Then he brought David to Saul. David served Saul as he had done before. 
1Samuel19:8 Once more war broke out. So David went out and fought against the Philistines. He struck them down with so much force that they ran away from him. 
1Samuel19:9 But an evil spirit that was sent by the Lord came on Saul. It happened as he was sitting in his house and holding his spear. While David was playing the harp," 
1Samuel19:10 Saul tried to pin him to the wall with his spear. But David got away from him just as Saul drove the spear into the wall. That night David escaped. 
1Samuel19:11 Saul sent some men to watch David's house. He told them to kill David the next morning. But David's wife Michal warned him. She said, ""You must run for your life tonight. If you don't, tomorrow you will be killed.""" 
1Samuel19:12 So Michal helped David escape through a window. He ran and got away. 
1Samuel19:13 Then Michal got a statue of a god. She laid it on David's bed. She covered it with clothes. And she put some goat hair at the place where David's head would have been. 
1Samuel19:14 Saul sent the men to capture David. But Michal told them, ""He's sick.""" 
1Samuel19:15 Then Saul sent the men back to see David. He told them, ""Bring him up here to me in his bed. Then I'll kill him.""" 
1Samuel19:16 But when the men entered, they found nothing but the statue in the bed. Some goat hair was at the place where David's head would have been." 
1Samuel19:17 Saul said to Michal, ""Why did you trick me like this? Why did you help my enemy escape?"" Michal told him, ""He said to me, 'Help me get away. If you don't, I'll kill you.' """ 
1Samuel19:18 After David had run away and escaped, he went to Samuel at Ramah. He told him everything Saul had done to him. Then David and Samuel went to Naioth and stayed there." 
1Samuel19:19 Saul was told, ""David is in Naioth at Ramah.""" 
1Samuel19:20 So Saul sent some men to capture him. When they got there, they saw a group of prophets who were prophesying. Samuel was standing there as their leader. Then the Spirit of God came on Saul's men. So they also began to prophesy." 
1Samuel19:21 Saul was told about it. So he sent some more men. They began to prophesy too. Saul sent some men a third time. And they also began to prophesy. 
1Samuel19:22 Finally, Saul decided to go to Ramah himself. He went to the large well at Secu. He asked some people, ""Where are Samuel and David?"" ""Over in Naioth at Ramah,"" they said." 
1Samuel19:23 So Saul went to Naioth at Ramah. But the Spirit of God even came on him. He walked along and prophesied until he came to Naioth. 
1Samuel19:24 There he took off his royal robes. Then he prophesied in front of Samuel. He lay there without his robes on all that day and night. That's why people say, ""Is Saul also one of the prophets?""" 
1Samuel20:1 David was in Naioth at Ramah. He ran away from there to where Jonathan was. He asked him, ""What have I done? What crime have I committed? I haven't done anything to harm your father. So why is he trying to kill me?""" 
1Samuel20:2 That will never happen! Jonathan replied. You aren't going to die! My father doesn't do anything at all without telling me. So why would he hide that from me? He isn't going to kill you! 
1Samuel20:3 But David took an oath. Then he said, ""Your father knows very well that you are pleased with me. He has said to himself, 'I don't want Jonathan to know I'm planning to kill David. If he finds out, he'll be very sad.' But I'm very close to being killed. And that's just as sure as the Lord and you are alive.""" 
1Samuel20:4 Jonathan said to David, ""I'll do anything you want me to do for you.""" 
1Samuel20:5 So David said, ""Tomorrow is the time for the New Moon Feast. I'm supposed to eat with the king. But let me go and hide in the field. I'll stay there until the evening of the day after tomorrow." 
1Samuel20:6 Your father might miss me. If he does, then tell him, 'David begged me to let him hurry home to Bethlehem. A yearly sacrifice is being offered there for his whole family group.'" 
1Samuel20:7 Your father might say, 'That's all right.' If he does, it will mean I'm safe. But he might become very angry. If he does, you can be sure he's made up his mind to harm me." 
1Samuel20:8 Please be kind to me. You have made a covenant with me in the sight of the Lord. If I'm guilty, kill me yourself! Don't hand me over to your father!""" 
1Samuel20:9 I would never do that! Jonathan said. Suppose I had even the smallest clue that my father had made up his mind to harm you. Then I would tell you. 
1Samuel20:10 David asked, ""Who will tell me if your father answers you in a mean way?""" 
1Samuel20:11 Come on,"" Jonathan said. ""Let's go out to the field."" So they went there together." 
1Samuel20:12 Then Jonathan spoke to David. He said, ""I promise you that I'll find out what my father is planning to do. I'll find out by this time the day after tomorrow. The Lord, the God of Israel, is my witness. Suppose my father feels kind toward you. Then I'll send you a message and let you know." 
1Samuel20:13 But suppose he wants to harm you. And I don't let you know about it. I don't help you get away safely. Then may the Lord punish me greatly. May he be with you, just as he has been with my father." 
1Samuel20:14 But always be kind to me, just as the Lord is. Be kind to me as long as I live. Then I won't be killed." 
1Samuel20:15 And never stop being kind to my family. Don't stop even when the Lord has cut off every one of your enemies from the face of the earth. 
1Samuel20:16 So Jonathan made a covenant with David and his family. He said, ""May the Lord make David's enemies accountable for what they've done.""" 
1Samuel20:17 Jonathan had David take an oath again because he loved him. In fact, Jonathan loved David just as he loved himself." 
1Samuel20:18 Then Jonathan said to David, ""Tomorrow is the time for the New Moon Feast. You will be missed, because your seat at the table will be empty." 
1Samuel20:19 Go to the place where you hid when all of this trouble began. Go there the day after tomorrow, when evening is approaching. There's a stone out there called Ezel." 
1Samuel20:20 Wait by it. I'll shoot three arrows to one side of the stone. I'll pretend I'm practicing my shooting. 
1Samuel20:21 Then I'll send a boy out there. I'll tell him, 'Go and find the arrows.' Suppose I say to him, 'The arrows are on this side of you. Bring them here.' Then come. That will mean you are safe. You won't be in any danger. And that's just as sure as the Lord is alive." 
1Samuel20:22 But suppose I tell the boy, 'The arrows are far beyond you.' Then go. That will mean the Lord is sending you away." 
1Samuel20:23 And remember what we talked about. Remember that the Lord is a witness between you and me forever. 
1Samuel20:24 So David hid in the field. When the time for the New Moon Feast came, the king sat down to eat." 
1Samuel20:25 He sat in his usual place by the wall. Jonathan sat across from him. Abner sat next to Saul. But David's place was empty. 
1Samuel20:26 Saul didn't say anything that day. He said to himself, ""Something must have happened to David to make him 'unclean.' That must be why he isn't here.""" 
1Samuel20:27 But the next day, David's place was empty again. It was the second day of the month. Finally, Saul spoke to his son Jonathan. He said, ""Why hasn't the son of Jesse come to the meal? He hasn't been here yesterday or today.""" 
1Samuel20:28 Jonathan replied, ""David begged me to let him go to Bethlehem." 
1Samuel20:29 He said, 'Let me go. Our family is offering a sacrifice in the town. My brother has ordered me to be there. Are you pleased with me? If you are, let me go and see my brothers.' That's why he hasn't come to eat at your table.""" 
1Samuel20:30 Saul burned with anger against Jonathan. He said to him, ""You are an evil son. You have refused to obey me. I know that you are on the side of Jesse's son. You should be ashamed of that. And your mother should be ashamed of having a son like you." 
1Samuel20:31 You will never be king as long as Jesse's son lives on this earth. And you will never have a kingdom either. So send for the son of Jesse. Bring him to me. He must die! 
1Samuel20:32 Why do you want to put him to death? Jonathan asked his father. What has he done? 
1Samuel20:33 But Saul threw his spear at Jonathan to kill him. Then Jonathan knew that his father wanted to kill David. 
1Samuel20:34 So Jonathan got up from the table. He was burning with anger. On that second day of the month, he refused to eat. He was very sad that his father was treating David so badly." 
1Samuel20:35 The next morning Jonathan went out to the field to meet David. He took a young boy with him. 
1Samuel20:36 He said to the boy, ""Run and find the arrows I shoot."" As the boy ran, Jonathan shot an arrow far beyond him." 
1Samuel20:37 The boy came to the place where Jonathan's arrow had fallen. Then Jonathan shouted to him, ""The arrow went far beyond you, didn't it?""" 
1Samuel20:38 He continued, ""Hurry up! Run fast! Don't stop!"" The boy picked up the arrow and returned to his master." 
1Samuel20:39 The boy didn't know what was going on. Only Jonathan and David knew. 
1Samuel20:40 Jonathan gave his weapons to the boy. He told him, ""Go back to town. Take the weapons with you.""" 
1Samuel20:41 After the boy had gone, David got up from the south side of the stone. He bowed down in front of Jonathan with his face to the ground. He did it three times. Then they kissed each other and cried. But David cried more than Jonathan did." 
1Samuel20:42 Jonathan said to David, ""Go in peace. In the name of the Lord we have taken an oath. We've promised to be friends. We've said, 'The Lord is a witness between you and me. He's a witness between your children and my children forever.' "" Then David left, and Jonathan went back to the town." 
1Samuel21:1 David went to the priest Ahimelech at Nob. Ahimelech trembled with fear when he met him. He asked David, ""Why are you alone? Why isn't anyone with you?""" 
1Samuel21:2 David answered the priest Ahimelech, ""The king gave me a special job to do. He said to me, 'I don't want anyone to know what I'm sending you to do. So don't say anything about it.' I've told my men to meet me at a certain place." 
1Samuel21:3 Do you have anything for us to eat? Give me five loaves of bread, or anything else you can find.""" 
1Samuel21:4 But the priest answered David, ""I don't have any bread that isn't holy. I only have some holy bread here. But it's for men who haven't made love to women recently.""" 
1Samuel21:5 David replied, ""Well, we haven't made love to women recently. That's the way it is every time I lead my men out to battle. We keep ourselves holy even when we do jobs that aren't holy. And that's even more true today.""" 
1Samuel21:6 So the priest gave him the holy bread. It was the only bread he had. It had been removed from the table that was in front of the Lord. On the same day, hot bread had been put in its place." 
1Samuel21:7 One of Saul's servants was there that day. He had been made to stay at the holy tent for a while. He was Doeg from Edom. He was Saul's chief shepherd. 
1Samuel21:8 David asked Ahimelech, ""Don't you have a spear or sword here? I haven't brought my sword or any other weapon. That's because the king's business had to be done right away.""" 
1Samuel21:9 The priest replied, ""The sword of Goliath, the Philistine, is here. You killed him in the Valley of Elah. His sword is wrapped in a cloth. It's behind the sacred linen apron. If you want it, take it. It's the only sword here."" David said, ""There isn't any sword like it. Give it to me.""" 
1Samuel21:10 That day David ran away from Saul. He went to Achish, the king of Gath." 
1Samuel21:11 But the servants of Achish spoke to him. They said, ""Isn't this David, the king of the land? Isn't he the one the Israelites sing about when they dance? They sing, "" 'Saul has killed thousands of men. David has killed tens of thousands.' """ 
1Samuel21:12 David paid close attention to what the servants were saying. He became very much afraid of what Achish, the king of Gath, might do." 
1Samuel21:13 So he pretended to be out of his mind when he was with them. As long as he was in Gath, he acted like someone who was crazy. He made marks on the doors of the city gate. He let spit run down his beard." 
1Samuel21:14 Achish said to his servants, ""Just look at the man! He's out of his mind! Why are you bringing him to me?" 
1Samuel21:15 Don't I have enough crazy people around me already? So why do you have to bring this fellow here? Just look at how he's carrying on in front of me! Why do you have to bring this man into my house? 
1Samuel22:1 David left Gath and escaped to the cave of Adullam. His brothers and the other members of his family heard about it. So they went down to join him there. 
1Samuel22:2 Everyone who was in trouble or owed money or was unhappy gathered around him. He became their leader. About 400 men were with him. 
1Samuel22:3 From there David went to Mizpah in Moab. He spoke to the king of Moab. He said, ""Please let my father and mother come and stay with you. Let them stay until I learn what God will do for me.""" 
1Samuel22:4 So David left his parents with the king of Moab. They stayed with him as long as David was in his usual place of safety. 
1Samuel22:5 But the prophet Gad spoke to David. He said, ""Don't stay in your usual place of safety. Go into the land of Judah."" So David left and went to the forest of Hereth." 
1Samuel22:6 Saul heard that the place where David and his men were hiding had been discovered. Saul was sitting under a tamarisk tree on the hill at Gibeah. He was holding his spear. All of his officials were standing around him. 
1Samuel22:7 Saul said to them, ""Men of Benjamin, listen to me! Do you think Jesse's son will give all of you fields and vineyards? Do you think he'll make some of you commanders of thousands of men? Do you think he'll make the rest of you commanders of hundreds?" 
1Samuel22:8 Is that why all of you have joined together against me? No one tells me when my son makes a covenant with Jesse's son. None of you is concerned about me. No one tells me that my son has stirred up Jesse's son to hide and wait to attack me. But that's exactly what's happening now. 
1Samuel22:9 Doeg was standing with Saul's officials. He was from Edom. He said, ""I saw Jesse's son David come to Ahimelech at Nob. Ahimelech is the son of Ahitub." 
1Samuel22:10 Ahimelech asked the Lord a question for David. He also gave him food and the sword of Goliath, the Philistine.""" 
1Samuel22:11 Then the king sent for the priest Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub. He sent for all of the men in his family. They were the priests at Nob. All of them came to the king." 
1Samuel22:12 Saul said, ""Son of Ahitub, listen to me."" ""Yes, master,"" he answered." 
1Samuel22:13 Saul said to him, ""Why have you and Jesse's son joined together against me? Why did you give him bread and a sword? Why did you ask God a question for him? Now he has turned against me. He is hiding and waiting to attack me right now.""" 
1Samuel22:14 Ahimelech answered the king, ""David is true to you. In fact, he's more true to you than anyone else who serves you. He's your own son-in-law. He's the captain of your own personal guards. He's highly respected by everyone in your palace." 
1Samuel22:15 Was that day the first time I asked God a question for him? Of course not! Please don't bring charges against me. Please don't bring charges against anyone in my family. I don't know anything at all about this whole matter. 
1Samuel22:16 But the king said, ""Ahimelech, you will certainly be put to death. You and your whole family will be put to death.""" 
1Samuel22:17 Then the king gave an order to the guards who were at his side. He said, ""Go and kill the priests of the Lord. They are on David's side too. They knew he was running away from me. And they didn't even tell me."" But the king's officials wouldn't raise a hand to strike down the priests of the Lord." 
1Samuel22:18 Then the king ordered Doeg, ""You go and strike the priests down."" So Doeg, the Edomite, went and struck them down. That day he killed 85 men who wore linen aprons." 
1Samuel22:19 He also killed the people of Nob with his sword. Nob was a town where priests lived. Doeg killed its men and women. He killed its children and babies. He also destroyed its cattle, donkeys and sheep." 
1Samuel22:20 But Abiathar, a son of Ahimelech, escaped. Ahimelech was the son of Ahitub. Abiathar ran away and joined David." 
1Samuel22:21 He told David that Saul had killed the priests of the Lord. 
1Samuel22:22 Then David said to Abiathar, ""One day I was at Nob. I saw Doeg, the Edomite, there. I knew he would be sure to tell Saul. Your whole family has been killed. And I'm accountable for it." 
1Samuel22:23 So stay with me. Don't be afraid. The man who wants to kill you wants to kill me too. You will be safe with me. 
1Samuel23:1 David was told, ""The Philistines are fighting against the town of Keilah. They are stealing grain from the threshing floors.""" 
1Samuel23:2 So he asked the Lord for advice. He said, ""Should I go and attack those Philistines?"" The Lord answered him, ""Go and attack them. Save Keilah.""" 
1Samuel23:3 But David's men said to him, ""We're afraid here in Judah. Suppose we go to Keilah and fight against the Philistine army. Then we'll be even more afraid.""" 
1Samuel23:4 Once again David asked the Lord what he should do. The Lord answered him, ""Go down to Keilah. I am going to hand the Philistines over to you.""" 
1Samuel23:5 So David and his men went to Keilah. They fought against the Philistines and carried off their livestock. David wounded and killed large numbers of Philistines. And he saved the people of Keilah. 
1Samuel23:6 Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, had brought the linen apron down with him from Nob. He did it when he ran away to David at Keilah." 
1Samuel23:7 Saul was told that David had gone to Keilah. He said, ""God has handed him over to me. David has trapped himself by entering a town that has gates and heavy metal bars.""" 
1Samuel23:8 So Saul brought together all of his soldiers to go to battle. He ordered them to go down to Keilah. He told them to surround David and his men. He told them to get ready to attack them. 
1Samuel23:9 David learned that Saul was planning to attack him. So he said to the priest Abiathar, ""Bring the linen apron.""" 
1Samuel23:10 Then David said, ""Lord, you are the God of Israel. I know for sure that Saul plans to come to Keilah. He plans to destroy the town because of me." 
1Samuel23:11 Will the citizens of Keilah hand me over to him? Will Saul come down here, as I've heard he would? Lord, you are the God of Israel. Please answer me."" The Lord said, ""He will come down.""" 
1Samuel23:12 Again David asked, ""Will the citizens of Keilah hand me and my men over to Saul?"" And the Lord said, ""They will.""" 
1Samuel23:13 So David and his men left Keilah. The total number of them was about 600. They kept moving from place to place. Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah. So he didn't go there. 
1Samuel23:14 Sometimes David stayed in places of safety in the desert. At other times he stayed in the hills of the Desert of Ziph. Day after day Saul looked for him. But God didn't hand David over to him. 
1Samuel23:15 David was at Horesh in the Desert of Ziph. There he learned that Saul had come out to kill him. 
1Samuel23:16 Saul's son Jonathan went to David at Horesh. He told David that God would make him strong. 
1Samuel23:17 Don't be afraid,"" he said. ""My father Saul won't lay a hand on you. You will be king over Israel. And I will be next in command. Even my father Saul knows this.""" 
1Samuel23:18 The two of them made a covenant in the sight of the Lord. Then Jonathan went home. But David remained at Horesh. 
1Samuel23:19 The people of Ziph went up to Saul at Gibeah. They said, ""David is hiding among us. He's hiding in places of safety at Horesh. Horesh is south of Jeshimon on the hill of Hakilah." 
1Samuel23:20 King Saul, come down when it pleases you to come. It will be our duty to hand David over to you.""" 
1Samuel23:21 Saul replied, ""May the Lord bless you because you were concerned about me." 
1Samuel23:22 Make sure you are right. Go and check things out again. Find out where David usually goes. Find out who has seen him there. People tell me he's very tricky. 
1Samuel23:23 Find out about all of the hiding places he uses. Come back to me with all of the facts. I'll go with you. Suppose he's in the area. Then I'll track him down among all of the family groups of Judah. 
1Samuel23:24 So they started out. They went to Ziph ahead of Saul. David and his men were in the Desert of Maon. Maon is south of Jeshimon in the Arabah Valley. 
1Samuel23:25 Saul and his men started out to look for David. David was told about it. So he went down to a rock in the Desert of Maon to hide. Saul heard he was there. So he went into the Desert of Maon to chase David. 
1Samuel23:26 Saul was going along one side of the mountain. David and his men were on the other side. They were hurrying to get away from Saul. Saul and his army were closing in on David and his men. They were about to capture them. 
1Samuel23:27 Just then a messenger came to Saul. He said, ""Come quickly! The Philistines are attacking the land.""" 
1Samuel23:28 So Saul stopped chasing David. He went to fight against the Philistines. That's why they call that place Sela Hammahlekoth. 
1Samuel23:29 David left that place. He went and lived in places of safety near En Gedi. 
1Samuel24:1 Saul returned from chasing the Philistines. Then he was told, ""David is in the Desert of En Gedi.""" 
1Samuel24:2 So Saul took 3,000 of the best soldiers from the whole nation of Israel. He started out to look for David and his men. He planned to look near the Rocky Cliffs of the Wild Goats." 
1Samuel24:3 He came to some sheep pens along the way. A cave was there. Saul went in to go to the toilet. David and his men were far back in the cave. 
1Samuel24:4 David's men said, ""This is the day the Lord told you about. He said to you, 'I will hand your enemy over to you. Then you can deal with him as you want to.' "" So David came up close to Saul without being seen. He cut off a corner of Saul's robe." 
1Samuel24:5 Later, David felt sorry that he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe." 
1Samuel24:6 He said to his men, ""May the Lord keep me from doing a thing like that to my master again. He is the Lord's anointed king. So I promise that I will never lift my hand to strike him down. The Lord has anointed him.""" 
1Samuel24:7 David said that to warn his men. He didn't allow them to attack Saul. So Saul left the cave and went on his way. 
1Samuel24:8 Then David went out of the cave. He called out to Saul, ""King Saul! My master!"" When Saul looked behind him, David bowed down. He lay down flat with his face toward the ground." 
1Samuel24:9 He said to Saul, ""Why do you listen when men say, 'David is trying to harm you'?" 
1Samuel24:10 This very day you have seen with your own eyes how the Lord handed you over to me in the cave. Some of my men begged me to kill you. But I spared you. I said, 'I will never lift my hand to strike my master down. He is the Lord's anointed king.'" 
1Samuel24:11 Look, my father! Look at this piece of your robe in my hand! I cut off the corner of your robe. But I didn't kill you. I want you to know and understand that I'm not guilty of doing anything wrong. I haven't turned against you. I haven't done anything to harm you. But you are hunting me down. You want to kill me." 
1Samuel24:12 May the Lord judge between you and me. And may the Lord pay you back because of the wrong things you have done to me. But I won't lay a hand on you. 
1Samuel24:13 People say, 'Evil acts come from those who do evil.' So I won't lay a hand on you." 
1Samuel24:14 King Saul, who are you trying to catch? Who do you think you are chasing? I'm nothing but a dead dog or a flea!" 
1Samuel24:15 May the Lord be our judge. May he decide between us. May he consider my case and stand up for me. May he show that I'm not guilty of doing anything wrong. May he save me from your powerful hand. 
1Samuel24:16 When David finished speaking, Saul asked him a question. He said, ""My son David, is that your voice?"" And Saul sobbed out loud." 
1Samuel24:17 You are a better person than I am,"" he said. ""You have treated me well. But I've treated you badly." 
1Samuel24:18 You have just now told me about the good things you did to me. The Lord handed me over to you. But you didn't kill me. 
1Samuel24:19 Suppose a man finds his enemy. He doesn't let him get away without harming him. May the Lord reward you with many good things. May he do it because of the way you treated me today. 
1Samuel24:20 I know for sure that you will be king. I know that the kingdom of Israel will be made secure under your control. 
1Samuel24:21 Now take an oath in the name of the Lord. Promise me that you won't cut off my children from my family. Also promise me that you won't wipe out my name from my family line. 
1Samuel24:22 So David took an oath and made that promise to Saul. Then Saul returned home. But David and his men went up to his usual place of safety. 
1Samuel25:1 Samuel died. The whole nation of Israel gathered together. They were filled with sorrow because he was dead. They buried his body at his home in Ramah. Then David went down into the Desert of Maon. 
1Samuel25:2 A certain man in Maon was very wealthy. He owned property there at Carmel. He had 1,000 goats and 3,000 sheep. He was clipping the wool off the sheep in Carmel." 
1Samuel25:3 His name was Nabal. His wife's name was Abigail. She was a wise and beautiful woman. But her husband was rude and mean in the way he treated others. He was from the family of Caleb. 
1Samuel25:4 David was staying in the Desert of Maon. While he was there, he heard that Nabal was clipping the wool off his sheep." 
1Samuel25:5 So he sent for ten young men. He said to them, ""Go up to Nabal at Carmel. Greet him for me." 
1Samuel25:6 Say to him, 'May you live a long time! May everything go well with you and your family! And may things go well with everything that belongs to you!" 
1Samuel25:7  'I hear that you are clipping the wool off your sheep. When your shepherds were with us, we treated them well. The whole time they were at Carmel nothing that belonged to them was stolen." 
1Samuel25:8 Ask your own servants. They'll tell you. We've come to you now at a happy time of the year. Please show favor to my young men. Please give me and my men anything you can find for us.' 
1Samuel25:9 When David's men arrived, they gave Nabal the message from David. Then they waited." 
1Samuel25:10 Nabal answered David's servants, ""Who is this David? Who is this son of Jesse? Many servants are running away from their masters these days." 
1Samuel25:11 Why should I give away my bread and water? Why should I give away the meat I've prepared for those who clip the wool off my sheep? Why should I give food to men who come from who knows where? 
1Samuel25:12 So David's men turned around and went back. When they arrived, they reported to David every word Nabal had spoken." 
1Samuel25:13 David said to his men, ""Put on your swords!"" So they put their swords on. David put his on too. About 400 men went up with David. Two hundred men stayed behind with the supplies." 
1Samuel25:14 One of the servants warned Nabal's wife Abigail. He said, ""David sent some messengers from the desert to give his greetings to our master. But Nabal shouted at them and made fun of them." 
1Samuel25:15 David's men had been very good to us. They treated us well. The whole time we were near them out in the fields, nothing was stolen." 
1Samuel25:16 We were taking care of our sheep near them. During that time, they were like a wall around us night and day. They kept us safe." 
1Samuel25:17 Now think it over. See what you can do. Horrible trouble will soon come to our master and his whole family. He's such an evil man that no one can even talk to him. 
1Samuel25:18 Abigail didn't waste any time. She got 200 loaves of bread and two bottles of wine. The bottles were made out of animal skins. She got five sheep that were ready to be cooked. She got a bushel of grain that had been cooked. She got 100 raisin cakes. And she got 200 cakes of pressed figs. She loaded all of it on the backs of donkeys. 
1Samuel25:19 Then she told her servants, ""Go on ahead. I'll follow you."" But she didn't tell her husband Nabal about it." 
1Samuel25:20 Abigail rode her donkey into a mountain valley. There she saw David and his men. They were coming down toward her. 
1Samuel25:21 David had just said, ""Everything we've done hasn't been worth a thing! I watched over that fellow's property in the desert. I made sure none of it was stolen. But he has paid me back evil for good." 
1Samuel25:22 I won't leave even one of his men alive until morning. If I do, may God punish me greatly!""" 
1Samuel25:23 When Abigail saw David, she quickly got off her donkey. She bowed down in front of David with her face toward the ground." 
1Samuel25:24 She fell at his feet. She said, ""Please let me speak to you, sir. Listen to what I'm saying. Let me take the blame myself." 
1Samuel25:25 Don't pay any attention to that evil man Nabal. His name means Foolish Person. And that's exactly what he is. He's always doing foolish things. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to see the men you sent. 
1Samuel25:26 Sir, the Lord has kept you from killing Nabal and his men. He has kept you from using your own hands to get even. May what's about to happen to Nabal happen to all of your enemies. May it also happen to everyone who wants to harm you. And may it happen just as surely as the Lord and you are alive." 
1Samuel25:27 I've brought a gift for you. Give it to the men who follow you. 
1Samuel25:28 Please forgive me for what I've done wrong. The Lord will certainly give you and your family line a kingdom that will last. That's because you fight the Lord's battles. Don't do anything wrong as long as you live. 
1Samuel25:29 Someone may chase you and try to kill you. But the Lord your God will keep your life safe like a treasure that is hidden in a bag. And he'll destroy your enemies. Their lives will be thrown away, just as a stone is thrown from a sling." 
1Samuel25:30 The Lord will do for you every good thing he promised to do. He'll appoint you leader over Israel. 
1Samuel25:31 When that happens, you won't have this heavy load on your mind. You won't have to worry about how you killed people without any reason. You won't have to worry about how you got even. The Lord will give you success. When that happens, please remember me.""" 
1Samuel25:32 David said to Abigail, ""Give praise to the Lord. He is the God of Israel. He has sent you today to find me." 
1Samuel25:33 May the Lord bless you for what you have done. You have shown a lot of good sense. You have kept me from killing Nabal and his men this very day. You have kept me from using my own hands to get even. 
1Samuel25:34 It's a good thing you came quickly to meet me. If you hadn't come, not one of Nabal's men would have been left alive by sunrise. And that's just as sure as the Lord, the God of Israel, is alive. He has kept me from harming you.""" 
1Samuel25:35 Then David accepted from her what she had brought him. He said, ""Go home in peace. I've heard your words. I'll do what you have asked.""" 
1Samuel25:36 Abigail went back to Nabal. He was having a dinner party in the house. It was the kind of dinner a king would have. He had been drinking too much wine. He was very drunk. So she didn't tell him anything at all until sunrise. 
1Samuel25:37 The next morning Nabal wasn't drunk anymore. Then his wife told him everything. When she did, his heart grew weak. He became like a stone." 
1Samuel25:38 About ten days later, the Lord struck Nabal down. And he died." 
1Samuel25:39 David heard that Nabal was dead. So he said, ""Give praise to the Lord. Nabal made fun of me. But the Lord stood up for me. He has kept me from doing something wrong. He has paid Nabal back for the wrong things he did."" Then David sent a message to Abigail. He asked her to become his wife." 
1Samuel25:40 His servants went to Carmel. They said to Abigail, ""David has sent us to you. He wants you to come back with us and become his wife.""" 
1Samuel25:41 Abigail bowed down with her face toward the ground. She said, ""Here I am. I'm ready to serve him. I'm ready to wash the feet of his servants.""" 
1Samuel25:42 Abigail quickly got on a donkey and went with David's messengers. Her five female servants went with her. She became David's wife. 
1Samuel25:43 David had also gotten married to Ahinoam from Jezreel. Both of them became his wives. 
1Samuel25:44 But Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's first wife, to Paltiel. Paltiel was from Gallim. He was the son of Laish." 
1Samuel26:1 Some people from Ziph went to Saul at Gibeah. They said, ""David is hiding on the hill of Hakilah. It faces Jeshimon.""" 
1Samuel26:2 So Saul went down to the Desert of Ziph. He took 3,000 of the best soldiers in Israel with him. They went to the desert to look for David." 
1Samuel26:3 Saul set up his camp beside the road. It was on the hill of Hakilah facing Jeshimon. But David stayed in the desert. He saw that Saul had followed him there. 
1Samuel26:4 So he sent out scouts. From them he learned that Saul had arrived. 
1Samuel26:5 Then David started out. He went to the place where Saul had camped. He saw where Saul and Abner were lying down. Saul was lying inside the camp. The army was camped all around him. Abner was commander of the army. He was the son of Ner. 
1Samuel26:6 Then David spoke to Ahimelech, the Hittite. He also spoke to Joab's brother Abishai, the son of Zeruiah. He asked them, ""Who will go down with me into the camp to Saul?"" ""I'll go with you,"" said Abishai." 
1Samuel26:7 So that night David and Abishai went into the camp. They found Saul lying asleep inside the camp. His spear was stuck in the ground near his head. Abner and the soldiers were lying asleep around him. 
1Samuel26:8 Abishai said to David, ""Today God has handed your enemy over to you. So let me pin him to the ground. I can do it with one jab of my spear. I won't even have to strike him twice.""" 
1Samuel26:9 But David said to Abishai, ""Don't destroy him! No one can lay a hand on the Lord's anointed king and not be guilty." 
1Samuel26:10 You can be sure that the Lord lives,"" he said. ""And you can be just as sure that the Lord himself will strike Saul down. Perhaps he'll die a natural death. Or perhaps he'll go into battle and be killed." 
1Samuel26:11 May the Lord keep me from laying a hand on his anointed king. Now get the spear and water jug that are near his head. Then let's leave. 
1Samuel26:12 So David took the spear and water jug that were near Saul's head. Then he and Abishai left. No one saw them. No one knew about what they had done. In fact, no one even woke up. Everyone was sleeping. That's because the Lord had put them into a deep sleep." 
1Samuel26:13 David went across to the other side of the valley. He stood on top of a hill far away from Saul's camp. There was a wide space between them. 
1Samuel26:14 He called out to the army and to Abner, the son of Ner. He said, ""Abner! Aren't you going to answer me?"" Abner replied, ""Who is calling out to the king?""" 
1Samuel26:15 David said, ""You are a great soldier, aren't you? There isn't anyone else like you in Israel. So why didn't you guard the king? He's your master, isn't he? Someone came into the camp to destroy him." 
1Samuel26:16 You didn't guard him. And that isn't good. You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that you and your men are worthy of death. That's because you didn't guard your master. He's the Lord's anointed king. Look around you. Where are the king's spear and water jug that were near his head? 
1Samuel26:17 Saul recognized David's voice. He said, ""My son David, is that your voice?"" David replied, ""Yes it is, King Saul, my master.""" 
1Samuel26:18 He continued, ""Why are you chasing me? What evil thing have I done? What am I guilty of?" 
1Samuel26:19 King Saul, please listen to what I'm saying. Was it the Lord who made you angry with me? If it was, may he accept my offering. Was it people who made you angry at me? If it was, may the Lord send down a curse on them. They have now driven me from my share of the Lord's land. By doing that, they might as well have said, 'Go and serve other gods.'" 
1Samuel26:20 Don't spill my blood on the ground far away from where the Lord lives. King Saul, you have come out to look for nothing but a flea. It's as if you were hunting a partridge in the mountains.""" 
1Samuel26:21 Then Saul said, ""I have sinned. My son David, come back. Today you thought my life was very special. So I won't try to harm you again. I've really acted like a foolish person. I've made a huge mistake.""" 
1Samuel26:22 Here's your spear,"" David answered. ""Send one of your young men over to get it." 
1Samuel26:23 The Lord rewards everyone for doing what is right and being faithful. He handed you over to me today. But I wouldn't lay a hand on you. You are the Lord's anointed king. 
1Samuel26:24 Today I thought your life had great value. In the same way, may the Lord think of my life as having great value. May he save me from all trouble.""" 
1Samuel26:25 Then Saul said to David, ""My son David, may the Lord bless you. You will do great things. You will also have great success."" So David went on his way. And Saul returned home." 
1Samuel27:1 David thought, ""Some day the powerful hand of Saul will destroy me. So the best thing I can do is escape. I'll go to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will stop looking for me everywhere in Israel. His hand won't be able to reach me.""" 
1Samuel27:2 So David and his 600 men left Israel. They went to Achish, the king of Gath. He was the son of Maoch." 
1Samuel27:3 David and his men settled down in Gath near Achish. Each of David's men had his family with him. David had his two wives with him. They were Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail from Carmel. Abigail was Nabal's widow. 
1Samuel27:4 Saul was told that David had run away to Gath. So he didn't look for David anymore. 
1Samuel27:5 David said to Achish, ""If you are pleased with me, give me a place in one of your country towns. I can live there. I don't really need to live near you in the royal city.""" 
1Samuel27:6 So on that day Achish gave David the town of Ziklag. It has belonged to the kings of Judah ever since that time. 
1Samuel27:7 David lived in Philistine territory for a year and four months. 
1Samuel27:8 Sometimes David and his men would go up and attack the Geshurites. At other times they would attack the Girzites or the Amalekites. All of those people had lived in the land that reached all the way to Shur and Egypt. They had been there for a long time. 
1Samuel27:9 When David would attack an area, he wouldn't leave a man or woman alive. But he would take their sheep, cattle, donkeys, camels and clothes. Then he would return to Achish." 
1Samuel27:10 Achish would ask, ""Who did you attack today?"" David would answer, ""The people who live in the Negev Desert of Judah."" Or he would answer, ""The people in the Negev Desert of Jerahmeel."" Or he would answer, ""The people in the Negev Desert of the Kenites.""" 
1Samuel27:11 David wouldn't leave a man or woman alive to be brought back to Gath. He thought, ""They might tell on us. They might tell Achish who we really attacked."" That's what David did as long as he lived in Philistine territory." 
1Samuel27:12 Achish trusted David. He thought, ""David has made himself smell very bad to his people, the Israelites. So he'll serve me forever.""" 
1Samuel28:1 While David was living in Ziklag, the Philistines gathered their army together. They planned to fight against Israel. Achish said to David, ""I want you to understand that you and your men must march out with me and my army.""" 
1Samuel28:2 David said, ""I understand. You will see for yourself what I can do."" Achish replied, ""All right. I'll make you my own personal guard for life.""" 
1Samuel28:3 Samuel had died. The whole nation of Israel was filled with sorrow because he was dead. They had buried his body in his own town of Ramah. Saul had gotten rid of people who get messages from those who have died. He had also gotten rid of people who talk to the spirits of the dead. He had thrown all of them out of the land. 
1Samuel28:4 The Philistines gathered together and set up camp at Shunem. At the same time, Saul gathered all of the fighting men of Israel together. They set up camp at Gilboa." 
1Samuel28:5 When Saul saw the Philistine army, he was afraid. Terror filled his heart." 
1Samuel28:6 He asked the Lord for advice. But the Lord didn't answer him through dreams or prophets. He didn't answer him when Saul had the priest use the Urim. 
1Samuel28:7 Saul spoke to his attendants. He said, ""Find me a woman who gets messages from those who have died. Then I can go and ask her some questions."" ""There's a woman like that in Endor,"" they said." 
1Samuel28:8 Saul put on different clothes so people wouldn't know who he was. At night he and two of his men went to see the woman. I want you to talk to a spirit for me,"" he said. ""Bring up the spirit of the dead person I choose.""" 
1Samuel28:9 But the woman said to him, ""By now you must know what Saul has done. He has cut off everyone who gets messages from those who have died. He has also cut off everyone who talks to the spirits of the dead. He has thrown all of them out of the land. Why are you trying to trap me? Why do you want to have me put to death?""" 
1Samuel28:10 Saul took an oath in the name of the Lord. He promised the woman, ""You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that you won't be punished for helping me.""" 
1Samuel28:11 Then the woman asked, ""Whose spirit should I bring up for you?"" ""Bring Samuel up,"" he said." 
1Samuel28:12 When the woman saw Samuel, she let out a loud scream. She said to Saul, ""Why have you tricked me? You are King Saul!""" 
1Samuel28:13 He said to her, ""Don't be afraid. Tell me what you see."" The woman said, ""I see a spirit. He's coming up out of the ground.""" 
1Samuel28:14 What does he look like? Saul asked. An old man wearing a robe is coming up,"" she said. Then Saul knew it was Samuel. He bowed down. He lay down flat with his face toward the ground." 
1Samuel28:15 Samuel said to Saul, ""Why have you troubled me by bringing me up from the dead?"" ""I'm having big problems,"" Saul said. ""The Philistines are fighting against me. God has turned away from me. He doesn't answer me anymore. He doesn't speak to me through prophets or dreams. So I've called on you to tell me what to do.""" 
1Samuel28:16 Samuel said, ""The Lord has turned away from you. He has become your enemy. So why are you asking me what you should do?" 
1Samuel28:17 The Lord has spoken through me and has done what he said he would do. He has torn the kingdom out of your hands. He has given it to one of your neighbors. He has given it to David. 
1Samuel28:18 You didn't obey the Lord. You didn't carry out his burning anger against the Amalekites. So he's punishing you today. 
1Samuel28:19 He will hand both Israel and you over to the Philistines. Tomorrow you and your sons will be down here with me. The Lord will also hand Israel's army over to the Philistines. 
1Samuel28:20 Immediately Saul fell flat on the ground. What Samuel had said filled Saul with fear. His strength was gone. He hadn't eaten anything all that day and night. 
1Samuel28:21 The woman went over to Saul because she saw that he was very upset. She said, ""Look, I've obeyed you. I put my own life in danger by doing what you told me to do." 
1Samuel28:22 So please listen to me. Let me give you some food. Eat it. Then you will have the strength to go on your way. 
1Samuel28:23 But he refused. He said, ""I don't want anything to eat."" Then his men joined the woman in begging him to eat. Finally, he paid attention to them. He got up from the ground and sat on a couch." 
1Samuel28:24 The woman had a fat calf at her house. She killed it at once. She got some flour. She mixed it and baked some bread that didn't have any yeast in it. 
1Samuel28:25 Then she set the food in front of Saul and his men. They ate it. That same night they got up and left. 
1Samuel29:1 The Philistines gathered their whole army together at Aphek. Israel's army camped by the spring of water at Jezreel. 
1Samuel29:2 The Philistine rulers marched out in companies of hundreds and thousands. David and his men were marching with Achish behind the others. 
1Samuel29:3 The commanders of the Philistines asked, ""Why are these Hebrews here?"" Achish replied, ""That's David, isn't it? Wasn't he an officer of Saul, the king of Israel? He has already been with me for more than a year. I haven't found any fault in him. That's been true from the day he left Saul until now.""" 
1Samuel29:4 But the Philistine commanders were angry with Achish. They said, ""Send David back. Let him return to the town you gave him. He must not go with us into battle. If he does, he'll turn against us during the fighting. In fact, he might even cut off the heads of our own men. What better way could he choose to win back his master's favor?" 
1Samuel29:5 Isn't David the one the Israelites sang about when they danced? They sang, "" 'Saul has killed thousands of men. David has killed tens of thousands.' """ 
1Samuel29:6 So Achish called David over to him. He said, ""You have been faithful to me. And that's just as sure as the Lord is alive. I would be pleased to have you serve with me in the army. I haven't found any fault in you. That's been true from the day you came to me until now. But the Philistine rulers aren't pleased to have you come along." 
1Samuel29:7 So go back home in peace. Don't do anything that wouldn't please the Philistine rulers. 
1Samuel29:8 But what have I done? asked David. What have you found against me from the day I came to you until now? Why can't I go and fight against your enemies? After all, you are my king and master.""" 
1Samuel29:9 Achish answered, ""You have been as pleasing to me as an angel of God. But the Philistine commanders have said, 'We don't want David to go up with us into battle.'" 
1Samuel29:10 So get up early in the morning. Take with you the men who used to serve Saul. Leave as soon as the sun begins to come up. 
1Samuel29:11 So David and his men got up early in the morning. They went back to the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel. 
1Samuel30:1 On the third day David and his men arrived in Ziklag. The Amalekites had attacked the people of the Negev Desert. They had also attacked Ziklag and burned it. 
1Samuel30:2 They had captured the women and everyone else who was in Ziklag. They had taken as prisoners young people and old people alike. But they didn't kill any of them. Instead, they carried them off as they went on their way." 
1Samuel30:3 David and his men came to Ziklag. They saw that it had been destroyed by fire. They found out that their wives and sons and daughters had been captured. 
1Samuel30:4 So David and his men began to sob out loud. They sobbed until they couldn't sob anymore. 
1Samuel30:5 David's two wives had been captured. Their names were Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail from Carmel. Abigail was Nabal's widow. 
1Samuel30:6 David was greatly troubled. His men were even talking about killing him by throwing stones at him. All of them were very bitter because their sons and daughters had been taken away. But David was made strong by the Lord his God. 
1Samuel30:7 Then David spoke to the priest Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech. He said, ""Bring me the linen apron."" Abiathar brought it to him." 
1Samuel30:8 David asked the Lord for advice. He said, ""Should I chase after the men who attacked Ziklag? If I do, will I catch up with them?"" ""Chase after them,"" the Lord answered. ""You will certainly catch up with them. You will succeed in saving those who were captured.""" 
1Samuel30:9 David and his 600 men came to the Besor Valley. Some of them stayed behind there. 
1Samuel30:10 That's because 200 of them were too tired to go across the valley. But David and the other 400 continued the chase. 
1Samuel30:11 David's men found an Egyptian in a field. They brought him to David. They gave him water to drink and food to eat. 
1Samuel30:12 They gave him part of a cake of pressed figs. They also gave him two raisin cakes. After he ate them, he felt as good as new. That's because he hadn't eaten any food for three days and three nights. He hadn't drunk any water during that time either." 
1Samuel30:13 David asked him, ""Who do you belong to? Where do you come from?"" The man said, ""I'm from Egypt. I'm the slave of an Amalekite. My master deserted me when I became ill three days ago." 
1Samuel30:14 We attacked the people in the Negev Desert of the Kerethites. We attacked the territory that belongs to Judah. We attacked the people in the Negev Desert of Caleb. And we burned Ziklag. 
1Samuel30:15 David asked him, ""Can you lead me down to the men who attacked Ziklag?"" He answered, ""Take an oath in the name of God. Promise me that you won't kill me. Promise that you won't hand me over to my master. Then I'll take you down to them.""" 
1Samuel30:16 He led David down to where the men were. They were scattered all over the countryside. They were eating and drinking and dancing wildly. That's because they had taken a large amount of goods from those they had attacked. They had taken it from the land of the Philistines and from the people of Judah. 
1Samuel30:17 David fought against them from sunset until the evening of the next day. None of them escaped except 400 young men. They rode off on camels and got away. 
1Samuel30:18 David got everything back that the Amalekites had taken. That included his two wives. 
1Samuel30:19 Nothing was missing. Not one young person or old person or boy or girl was missing. None of the goods or anything else the Amalekites had taken was missing. David brought everything back. 
1Samuel30:20 He brought back all of the flocks and herds. His men drove them on ahead of the other livestock. They said, ""Here's what David has captured.""" 
1Samuel30:21 Then David came to the 200 men who had been too tired to follow him. They had been left behind in the Besor Valley. They came out to welcome David and the people who were with him. As David and his men approached, he greeted them." 
1Samuel30:22 But some of the men who had gone out with David were evil. They wanted to stir up trouble. They said, ""The 200 men didn't go out into battle with us. So we won't share with them the goods we brought back. But each man can take his wife and children and go home.""" 
1Samuel30:23 David replied, ""No, my friends. You must not hold back their share of what the Lord has given us. He has kept us safe. He has handed over to us the men who attacked Ziklag." 
1Samuel30:24 So no one will pay any attention to what you are saying. Each man who stayed with the supplies will receive the same share as each man who went down to the battle. Everyone's share will be the same. 
1Samuel30:25 David made that a law and a rule for Israel. It has been followed from that day until now. 
1Samuel30:26 David arrived in Ziklag. He sent some of the goods to the elders of Judah. They were his friends. He said, ""Here's a present for you. It's part of the things we took from the Lord's enemies.""" 
1Samuel30:27 He sent some goods to the elders who were in Bethel, Ramoth Negev and Jattir." 
1Samuel30:28 He sent some to those who were in Aroer, Siphmoth, Eshtemoa" 
1Samuel30:29 and Racal. He sent some to those who were in the towns of the Jerahmeelites and Kenites. 
1Samuel30:30 He sent some to those who were in Hormah, Bor Ashan, Athach" 
1Samuel30:31 and Hebron. He also sent some to those who were in all of the other places where he and his men had wandered around. 
1Samuel31:1 The Philistines fought against Israel. The men of Israel ran away from them. But many Israelites were killed on Mount Gilboa. 
1Samuel31:2 The Philistines kept chasing Saul and his sons. They killed his sons Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua." 
1Samuel31:3 The fighting was heavy around Saul. Men who were armed with bows and arrows caught up with him. They shot their arrows at him and wounded him badly. 
1Samuel31:4 Saul spoke to the man who was carrying his armor. He said, ""Pull out your sword. Stick it through me. If you don't, those fellows who aren't circumcised will come. They'll stick their swords through me and hurt me badly."" But the man was terrified. He wouldn't do it. So Saul took his own sword and fell on it." 
1Samuel31:5 The man saw that Saul was dead. So he fell on his own sword and died with him. 
1Samuel31:6 Saul and his three sons died together that same day. The man who carried his armor also died with them that day. So did all of Saul's men. 
1Samuel31:7 The Israelites who lived along the valley saw that their army had run away. So did those who lived across the Jordan River. They saw that Saul and his sons were dead. So they left their towns and ran away. Then the Philistines came and settled down in them. 
1Samuel31:8 The day after the Philistines had won the battle, they came to take what they wanted from the dead bodies. They found Saul and his three sons dead on Mount Gilboa." 
1Samuel31:9 So they cut off Saul's head. They took his armor from his body. Then they sent messengers through the whole land of the Philistines. They announced the news in the temple where they had set up statues of their gods. They also announced it among their people. 
1Samuel31:10 They put Saul's armor in the temple where they had set up statues of goddesses that were named after Ashtoreth. They hung his body up on the wall of Beth Shan. 
1Samuel31:11 The people of Jabesh Gilead heard about what the Philistines had done to Saul. 
1Samuel31:12 So all of their brave men traveled through the night to Beth Shan. They took down the bodies of Saul and his sons from the wall of Beth Shan. They brought them to Jabesh. There they burned them. 
1Samuel31:13 Then they got the bones of Saul and his sons and buried them under a tamarisk tree at Jabesh. They didn't eat anything for seven days. 
2Samuel1:1 After Saul died, David returned to Ziklag. He had won the battle over the Amalekites. He stayed in Ziklag for two days." 
2Samuel1:2 On the third day a man arrived from Saul's camp. His clothes were torn. He had dust on his head. When he came to David, he fell to the ground to show him respect." 
2Samuel1:3 Where have you come from? David asked him. He answered, ""I've escaped from Israel's camp.""" 
2Samuel1:4 What happened? David asked. Tell me. He said, ""Israel's men ran away from the battle. Many of them were killed. Saul and his son Jonathan are dead.""" 
2Samuel1:5 David spoke to the young man who brought him the report. He asked him, ""How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?""" 
2Samuel1:6 I just happened to be there on Mount Gilboa,"" the young man said. ""Saul was there too. He was leaning on his spear. The enemy chariots and chariot drivers had almost caught up with him." 
2Samuel1:7 Then he turned around and saw me. He called out to me. I said, 'What do you want me to do?'" 
2Samuel1:8 He asked me, 'Who are you?' "" 'An Amalekite,' I answered." 
2Samuel1:9 Then he said to me, 'Stand over me and kill me! I'm close to death, but I'm still alive.'" 
2Samuel1:10 So I stood over him and killed him. I did it because I knew that after he had lost the battle he would be killed anyway. So I took the crown that was on his head. I also took his armband. I've brought them here to you. You are my master. 
2Samuel1:11 Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them. All of his men did the same thing. 
2Samuel1:12 All of them were filled with sadness. They sobbed over the whole nation of Israel. They didn't eat anything until evening. That's because Saul and Jonathan and the Lord's army had been killed with swords. 
2Samuel1:13 David spoke to the young man who had brought him the report. He asked, ""Where are you from?"" ""I'm the son of an outsider, an Amalekite,"" he answered." 
2Samuel1:14 David asked him, ""Why weren't you afraid to lift your hand to kill the Lord's anointed king?""" 
2Samuel1:15 Then David called for one of his men. He said, ""Go! Strike him down!"" So he struck the man down, and the man died." 
2Samuel1:16 That's because David had said to him, ""Anything that happens to you will be your own fault. What your own mouth has spoken is a witness against you. You said, 'I killed the Lord's anointed king.' """ 
2Samuel1:17 David sang a song of sadness about Saul and his son Jonathan. 
2Samuel1:18 He ordered that it be taught to the people of Judah. It is called The Song of the Bow. It is written down in the Book of Jashar. David sang," 
2Samuel1:19 Israel, your glorious leaders lie dead on your hills. Your mighty men have fallen." 
2Samuel1:20 Don't announce it in Gath. Don't tell it in the streets of Ashkelon. If you do, the daughters of the Philistines will be glad. The daughters of men who haven't been circumcised will be joyful." 
2Samuel1:21 Mountains of Gilboa, may no dew or rain fall on you. May your fields not produce any offerings of grain. The shield of the mighty king lies polluted there. The shield of Saul lies there. It isn't rubbed with oil anymore." 
2Samuel1:22 The bow of Jonathan didn't turn back. The sword of Saul didn't return without being satisfied. They spilled the blood of their enemies. They killed mighty men. 
2Samuel1:23 In life Saul and Jonathan were loved and gracious. In death they were not parted. They were faster than eagles. They were stronger than lions. 
2Samuel1:24 Daughters of Israel, sob over Saul. He dressed you in the finest clothes. He decorated your clothes with ornaments of gold." 
2Samuel1:25 Your mighty men have fallen in battle. Jonathan lies dead on your hills. 
2Samuel1:26 My brother Jonathan, I'm filled with sadness because of you. You were very special to me. Your love for me was wonderful. It was more wonderful than the love of women." 
2Samuel1:27 Israel's mighty men have fallen. Their weapons of war are broken. 
2Samuel2:1 After Saul and Jonathan died, David asked the Lord for advice. ""Should I go up to one of the towns of Judah?"" he asked. The Lord said, ""Go up."" David asked, ""Where should I go?"" ""To Hebron,"" the Lord answered." 
2Samuel2:2 So David went up there with his two wives. Their names were Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail from Carmel. Abigail was Nabal's widow. 
2Samuel2:3 David also took his men and their families with him. They settled down in Hebron and its towns. 
2Samuel2:4 Then the men of Judah came to Hebron. There they anointed David to be king over the people of Judah. David was told that the men of Jabesh Gilead had buried Saul's body. 
2Samuel2:5 So he sent messengers to them to speak for him. The messengers said, ""You were kind to bury the body of your master Saul. May the Lord bless you for that." 
2Samuel2:6 And may he now be kind and faithful to you. David will treat you well for being kind to Saul's body. 
2Samuel2:7 Now then, be strong and brave. Your master Saul is dead. And the people of Judah have anointed David to be king over them.""" 
2Samuel2:8 Abner, the son of Ner, was commander of Saul's army. He had brought Saul's son Ish-Bosheth to Mahanaim." 
2Samuel2:9 There he made him king over Gilead, Ashuri and Jezreel. He also made him king over Ephraim, Benjamin and other areas of Israel." 
2Samuel2:10 Ish-Bosheth was 40 years old when he became king over Israel. He ruled for two years. But the people of Judah followed David. 
2Samuel2:11 David was king in Hebron over the people of Judah for seven and a half years. 
2Samuel2:12 Abner, the son of Ner, left Mahanaim and went to Gibeon. The men of Ish-Bosheth, the son of Saul, went with him." 
2Samuel2:13 Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and David's men also went out. All of them met at the pool in Gibeon. One group sat down on one side of the pool. The other group sat on the other side." 
2Samuel2:14 Then Abner said to Joab, ""Let's have some of the young men get up and fight. Let's tell them to fight hand to hand in front of us."" ""All right. Let them do it,"" Joab said." 
2Samuel2:15 So the young men stood up and were counted off. There were 12 on the side of Benjamin and Saul's son Ish-Bosheth. And there were 12 on David's side. 
2Samuel2:16 Each man grabbed one of his enemies by the head. Each one stuck his dagger into the other man's side. And all of them fell down together and died. So that place in Gibeon was named Helkath Hazzurim. 
2Samuel2:17 The fighting that day was very heavy. Abner and the men of Israel lost the battle to David's men. 
2Samuel2:18 The three sons of Zeruiah were there. Their names were Joab, Abishai and Asahel. Asahel was as quick on his feet as a wild antelope." 
2Samuel2:19 He chased Abner. He didn't turn to the right or the left as he chased him. 
2Samuel2:20 Abner looked behind him. He asked, ""Asahel, is that you?"" ""It is,"" he answered." 
2Samuel2:21 Then Abner said to him, ""Turn to the right or the left. Fight one of the young men. Take his weapons away from him."" But Asahel wouldn't stop chasing him." 
2Samuel2:22 Again Abner warned Asahel, ""Stop chasing me! If you don't, I'll strike you down. Then how could I look your brother Joab in the face?""" 
2Samuel2:23 But Asahel refused to give up the chase. So Abner drove the dull end of his spear into Asahel's stomach. The spear came out of his back. He fell and died right there on the spot. Every man stopped when he came to the place where Asahel had fallen and died. 
2Samuel2:24 But Joab and Abishai chased Abner. As the sun was going down, they came to the hill of Ammah. It was near Giah on the way to the dry and empty land close to Gibeon." 
2Samuel2:25 The men of Benjamin gathered in a group around Abner. They took their stand on top of a hill. 
2Samuel2:26 Abner called out to Joab, ""Do you want our swords to keep on killing us off? Don't you know that all of this fighting will end in bitter feelings? How long will it be before you order your men to stop chasing their fellow Israelites?""" 
2Samuel2:27 Joab answered, ""It's a good thing you spoke up. If you hadn't, the men would have kept on chasing their fellow Israelites until morning. And that's just as sure as God is alive.""" 
2Samuel2:28 So Joab blew a trumpet. All of the men stopped. They didn't chase Israel anymore. They didn't fight anymore either. 
2Samuel2:29 All that night Abner and his men marched through the Arabah Valley. They went across the Jordan River. They kept on going through the whole Bithron. Finally, they came to Mahanaim." 
2Samuel2:30 Then Joab returned from chasing Abner. He gathered all of his men together. Besides Asahel, only 19 of David's men were missing." 
2Samuel2:31 But David's men had killed 360 men from Benjamin who were with Abner. 
2Samuel2:32 They got Asahel's body and buried it in his father's tomb at Bethlehem. Then Joab and his men marched all night. They arrived at Hebron at sunrise. 
2Samuel3:1 The war between Saul's royal house and David's royal house lasted a long time. David grew stronger and stronger. But the royal house of Saul grew weaker and weaker. 
2Samuel3:2 Sons were born to David in Hebron. His first son was Amnon. Amnon's mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel. 
2Samuel3:3 His second son was Kileab. Kileab's mother was Abigail. She was Nabal's widow from Carmel. The third son was Absalom. His mother was Maacah. She was the daughter of Talmai, the king of Geshur." 
2Samuel3:4 The fourth son was Adonijah. His mother was Haggith. The fifth son was Shephatiah. His mother was Abital. 
2Samuel3:5 The sixth son was Ithream. His mother was David's wife Eglah. Those sons were born to David in Hebron. 
2Samuel3:6 The fighting continued between David's royal house and Saul's royal house. Abner gained more and more power in the royal house of Saul. 
2Samuel3:7 While Saul was still alive, he had a concubine named Rizpah. She was the daughter of Aiah. Ish-Bosheth said to Abner, ""Why did you have sex with my father's concubine?""" 
2Samuel3:8 Abner burned with anger because of what Ish-Bosheth said. He answered, ""Do you think I'm only a dog's head? Am I on Judah's side? To this very day I've been true to the royal house of your father Saul. I've been true to his family and friends. I haven't handed you over to David. But now you claim that I've sinned with this woman!" 
2Samuel3:9 I will do for David what the Lord promised him with an oath. If I don't, may God punish me greatly." 
2Samuel3:10 I'll take the kingdom away from Saul's royal house. I'll set up the throne of David's kingdom over Israel and Judah. He will rule from Dan all the way to Beersheba. 
2Samuel3:11 Ish-Bosheth didn't dare to say another word to Abner. He was much too afraid of him. 
2Samuel3:12 Then Abner sent messengers to David to speak for him. They said, ""Who will rule over this land? Make a covenant with me. Then I'll help you bring all of the people of Israel over to your side.""" 
2Samuel3:13 Good,"" said David. ""I will make a covenant with you. But there's one thing I want you to do. Bring Saul's daughter Michal to me. Don't come to see me unless she's with you.""" 
2Samuel3:14 Then David sent messengers to Saul's son Ish-Bosheth. He ordered them to say, ""Give me my wife Michal. She was promised to me. I paid for her with the skins I cut off when I circumcised 100 Philistines.""" 
2Samuel3:15 So Ish-Bosheth gave the order. He sent men who took Michal away from her husband Paltiel. Paltiel was the son of Laish. 
2Samuel3:16 But her husband followed her to Bahurim. He was crying all the way. Then Abner said to him, ""Go back home!"" So he did." 
2Samuel3:17 Abner talked with the elders of Israel. He said, ""For some time you have wanted to make David your king." 
2Samuel3:18 Now do it! The Lord made a promise to David. He said, 'I will save my people Israel from the powerful hand of the Philistines. I will also save them from all of their enemies. I will save them through my servant David.' """ 
2Samuel3:19 Abner also spoke to the people of Benjamin in person. Then he went to Hebron to tell David everything. He told him what Israel and all of the people of Benjamin wanted to do. 
2Samuel3:20 Abner had 20 men with him. They came to David at Hebron. So David prepared a big dinner for Abner and his men. 
2Samuel3:21 Then Abner said to David, ""Let me go right now. I'll gather together all of the people of Israel for you. After all, you are now my king and master. The people can make a covenant with you. Then you can rule over everyone you want to."" So David sent Abner away. And he went in peace." 
2Samuel3:22 Just then David's men and Joab came back from attacking their enemies. They brought with them the large amount of goods they had taken. But Abner wasn't with David in Hebron anymore. That's because David had sent him away, and he had gone in peace." 
2Samuel3:23 Joab and all of the soldiers who were with him arrived. Then he was told that Abner, the son of Ner, had come to see the king. He was told that the king had sent Abner away. He was also told that Abner had gone in peace." 
2Samuel3:24 So Joab went to the king. He said, ""What have you done? Abner came to you. Why did you let him get away? Now he's gone!" 
2Samuel3:25 You know what Abner, the son of Ner, is like. He came to trick you. He wanted to watch your every move. He came to find out everything you are doing.""" 
2Samuel3:26 Then Joab left David. He sent messengers to get Abner. They brought Abner back from the well of Sirah. But David didn't know about it. 
2Samuel3:27 When Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him to one side. He brought him to the entrance of the city gate. Joab acted as if he wanted to speak to him in private. But he really wanted to get even with him. That's because Abner had spilled the blood of Joab's brother Asahel. So Joab stabbed him in the stomach. And Abner died." 
2Samuel3:28 Later on, David heard about it. He said, ""I and the people of my kingdom aren't guilty of spilling the blood of Abner, the son of Ner. We are free of blame forever in the sight of the Lord." 
2Samuel3:29 May Joab and his whole family line be held accountable for spilling Abner's blood! May someone in Joab's family always have an open sore or skin disease. May someone in his family always have to use a crutch to walk. May someone in his family be killed with a sword. And may someone in his family never have enough food to eat. 
2Samuel3:30 Joab and his brother Abishai murdered Abner. They did it because he had killed their brother Asahel in the battle at Gibeon. 
2Samuel3:31 David spoke to Joab and all of the people who were with him. He said, ""Tear your clothes. Put on black clothes. Sob when you walk in front of Abner's body."" King David himself walked behind it." 
2Samuel3:32 Abner's body was buried in Hebron. The king sobbed out loud at Abner's tomb. So did the rest of the people. 
2Samuel3:33 King David sang a song of sadness over Abner. He said, ""Should Abner have died as sinful people do?" 
2Samuel3:34 His hands were not tied. His feet were not chained. He died as if he had been killed by evil people. All of the people sobbed over Abner again. 
2Samuel3:35 Then all of them came and begged David to eat something. They wanted him to eat while it was still day. But David took an oath. He said, ""I won't taste bread or anything else before the sun goes down. If I do, may God punish me greatly!""" 
2Samuel3:36 All of the people heard it and were pleased. In fact, everything the king did pleased them." 
2Samuel3:37 So on that day all of the people of Judah and Israel understood. They knew that the king didn't have anything to do with the murder of Abner, the son of Ner." 
2Samuel3:38 The king spoke to his men. He said, ""Don't you realize that a great commander has died in Israel today?" 
2Samuel3:39 I'm the anointed king. But today I'm weak. These sons of Zeruiah are too powerful for me. May the Lord pay back the one who killed Abner! May he pay him back for the evil thing he has done! 
2Samuel4:1 Ish-Bosheth, the son of Saul, heard that Abner had died in Hebron. Then he wasn't so brave anymore. And all of the people of Israel became alarmed." 
2Samuel4:2 Two men in Ish-Bosheth's army led small companies that attacked their enemies. The names of the men were Baanah and Recab. They were sons of Rimmon from the town of Beeroth. Rimmon was from the tribe of Benjamin. Beeroth is considered to be part of Benjamin. 
2Samuel4:3 That's because the people who used to live in Beeroth had run away to Gittaim. They have lived there as outsiders to this very day. 
2Samuel4:4 Jonathan, the son of Saul, had a son named Mephibosheth. Both of Mephibosheth's feet were hurt. He was five years old when the news that Saul and Jonathan had died came from Jezreel. His nurse picked him up and ran. But as she hurried to get away, he fell down. That's how his feet were hurt." 
2Samuel4:5 Recab and Baanah started out for the house of Ish-Bosheth. They were the sons of Rimmon from Beeroth. They arrived there during the hottest time of the day. Ish-Bosheth was taking his early afternoon nap. 
2Samuel4:6 Recab and his brother Baanah went into the inside part of the house. They acted as if they were going to get some wheat. Instead, they stabbed Ish-Bosheth in the stomach. Then they slipped away." 
2Samuel4:7 They had gone into the house while Ish-Bosheth was lying on his bed in his bedroom. They stabbed him and killed him. Then they cut off his head and took it with them. They traveled all night through the Arabah Valley. 
2Samuel4:8 They brought the head of Ish-Bosheth to King David at Hebron. They said to him, ""Here's the head of Ish-Bosheth, the son of Saul. Saul was your enemy. He often tried to kill you. Today the Lord has paid Saul and his family back. He has let you get even with them. You are our king and master.""" 
2Samuel4:9 David gave an answer to Recab and his brother Baanah. They were the sons of Rimmon of Beeroth. David said, ""The Lord has saved me from all of my troubles." 
2Samuel4:10 A man once told me, 'Saul is dead.' He thought he was bringing me good news. But I grabbed hold of him. I had him put to death in Ziklag. That's the reward I gave him for his news! And that's just as sure as the Lord is alive." 
2Samuel4:11 Now you evil men have killed a man in his own house. He hadn't done anything wrong. You killed him while he was lying on his own bed. You spilled his blood. So shouldn't I spill your blood? Shouldn't I wipe you off the face of the earth? 
2Samuel4:12 Then David gave an order to his men. They killed Recab and Baanah. They cut off their hands and feet. They hung their bodies by the pool in Hebron. But they buried the head of Ish-Bosheth in Abner's tomb at Hebron. 
2Samuel5:1 All of the tribes of Israel came to see David at Hebron. They said, ""We are your own flesh and blood." 
2Samuel5:2 In the past, Saul was our king. But you led the men of Israel on their military campaigns. And the Lord said to you, 'You will be the shepherd over my people Israel. You will become their ruler.' """ 
2Samuel5:3 All of the elders of Israel came to see King David at Hebron. There the king made a covenant with them in the sight of the Lord. They anointed David as king over Israel. 
2Samuel5:4 David was 30 years old when he became king. He ruled for 40 years. 
2Samuel5:5 In Hebron he ruled over Judah for seven and a half years. In Jerusalem he ruled over all of Israel and Judah for 33 years. 
2Samuel5:6 The king and his men marched to Jerusalem. They went to attack the Jebusites who lived there. The Jebusites said to David, ""You won't get in here. Even blind people and those who are disabled can keep you from coming in."" They thought, ""David can't get in here.""" 
2Samuel5:7 But David captured the fort of Zion. It became known as the City of David. 
2Samuel5:8 On that day David said, ""Anyone who wins the battle over the Jebusites will have to crawl through the water tunnel to get into the city. That's the only way he can reach those 'disabled and blind' enemies of mine."" That's why people say, ""Those who are 'blind and disabled' won't enter David's palace.""" 
2Samuel5:9 David moved into the fort. He called it the City of David. He built up the area around the fort. He filled in the low places. He started at the bottom and worked his way up. 
2Samuel5:10 David became more and more powerful. That's because the Lord God who rules over all was with him. 
2Samuel5:11 Hiram was king of Tyre. He sent messengers to David. He sent cedar logs along with them. He also sent skilled workers. They worked with wood and stone. They built a palace for David. 
2Samuel5:12 David knew that the Lord had made his position as king secure. He knew that he had made him king over the whole nation of Israel. He knew that the Lord had greatly honored his kingdom. The Lord had done it because the Israelites were his people. 
2Samuel5:13 After David left Hebron, he got more concubines and wives in Jerusalem. More sons and daughters were born to him there." 
2Samuel5:14 Here is a list of the children who were born to him in Jerusalem. Their names were Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
2Samuel5:15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia," 
2Samuel5:16 Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet." 
2Samuel5:17 The Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel. So their whole army went to look for him. But David heard about it. He went down to his usual place of safety. 
2Samuel5:18 The Philistines had come and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim. 
2Samuel5:19 So David asked the Lord for advice. He said, ""Should I go and attack the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?"" The Lord answered him, ""Go. You can be sure that I will hand the Philistines over to you.""" 
2Samuel5:20 So David went to Baal Perazim. There he won the battle over the Philistines. He said, ""The Lord has broken through against my enemies when I've attacked them, just as water breaks through a dam."" That's why the place was called Baal Perazim." 
2Samuel5:21 The Philistines left the statues of their gods there. So David and his men carried the statues off. 
2Samuel5:22 Once more the Philistines came up. They spread out in the Valley of Rephaim. 
2Samuel5:23 So David asked the Lord for advice. The Lord answered, ""Do not go straight up. Instead, circle around behind them. Attack them in front of the balsam trees." 
2Samuel5:24 Listen for the sound of marching in the tops of the trees. Then move quickly. The sound will mean that I have gone out in front of you. I will strike down the Philistine army. 
2Samuel5:25 So David did just as the Lord had commanded him. He struck down the Philistines. He struck them down from Gibeon all the way to Gezer. 
2Samuel6:1 Again David brought together the best soldiers in Israel. The total number was 30,000." 
2Samuel6:2 He and all of his men started out from Baalah in Judah. They wanted to bring the ark of God up to Jerusalem from there. The ark is named after the Lord. He is the Lord who rules over all. He sits on his throne between the cherubim that are on the ark. 
2Samuel6:3 The ark of God was placed on a new cart. Then it was brought from Abinadab's house, which was on a hill. Uzzah and Ahio were guiding the cart. They were the sons of Abinadab." 
2Samuel6:4 The ark of God was on the cart. Ahio was walking in front of it. 
2Samuel6:5 David was celebrating with all his might in the sight of the Lord. So was the whole community of Israel. All of them were singing songs. They were also playing harps, lyres, tambourines, rattles and cymbals." 
2Samuel6:6 They came to the threshing floor of Nacon. The oxen nearly fell there. So Uzzah reached out and took hold of the ark of God. 
2Samuel6:7 Then the Lord's anger burned against Uzzah. That's because what Uzzah did showed that he didn't have any respect for the Lord. So God struck him down. He died there beside the ark of God. 
2Samuel6:8 David was angry because the Lord's burning anger had broken out against Uzzah. That's why the place is still called Perez Uzzah to this very day. 
2Samuel6:9 David was afraid of the Lord that day. He asked, ""How can the ark of the Lord ever be brought to me?""" 
2Samuel6:10 He didn't want to take the ark of the Lord to be with him in the City of David. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-Edom. Obed-Edom was from Gath." 
2Samuel6:11 The ark of the Lord remained in Obed-Edom's house for three months. And the Lord blessed him and his whole family. 
2Samuel6:12 King David was told, ""The Lord has blessed the family of Obed-Edom. He has also blessed everything that belongs to him. That's because the ark of God is in Obed-Edom's house."" So David went down there and brought up the ark. With great joy he brought it up from the house of Obed-Edom. He took it to the City of David." 
2Samuel6:13 Those who were carrying the ark of the Lord took six steps forward. Then David sacrificed a bull and a fat calf. 
2Samuel6:14 David was wearing a sacred linen apron. He danced in the sight of the Lord with all his might. 
2Samuel6:15 He did it while he was bringing up the ark of the Lord. The whole community of Israel helped him bring it up. They shouted. They blew trumpets. 
2Samuel6:16 The ark of the Lord was brought into the City of David. Saul's daughter Michal was watching from a window. She saw King David leaping and dancing in the sight of the Lord. That made her hate him in her heart. 
2Samuel6:17 The ark of the Lord was brought into Jerusalem. It was put in its place in the tent David had set up for it. David sacrificed burnt offerings and friendship offerings to the Lord. 
2Samuel6:18 After he finished sacrificing those offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord who rules over all." 
2Samuel6:19 He gave to each Israelite man and woman a loaf of bread. He also gave each one a date cake and a raisin cake. Then all of the people went home. 
2Samuel6:20 David returned home to bless his family. Saul's daughter Michal came out to meet him. She said, ""You are the king of Israel. You have really brought honor to yourself today, haven't you? You have taken off your royal robe right in front of the female slaves of your officials. You acted like someone who is very foolish!""" 
2Samuel6:21 David said to Michal, ""I did it to honor the Lord. He chose me instead of your father or anyone else in Saul's family. He appointed me ruler over his people Israel. I will celebrate in honor of the Lord." 
2Samuel6:22 And that's not all. I will bring even less honor to myself. I will bring even more shame on myself. But those female slaves you spoke about will honor me. 
2Samuel6:23 Saul's daughter Michal didn't have any children as long as she lived. 
2Samuel7:1 The king settled down in his palace. The Lord had given him peace and rest from all of his enemies who were around him. 
2Samuel7:2 Then the king spoke to the prophet Nathan. He said, ""Here I am, living in a palace that has beautiful cedar walls. But the ark of God remains in a tent.""" 
2Samuel7:3 Nathan replied to the king, ""Go ahead and do what you want to. The Lord is with you.""" 
2Samuel7:4 That night the word of the Lord came to Nathan. The Lord said," 
2Samuel7:5 Go and speak to my servant David. Tell him, 'The Lord says, ""Are you the one to build me a house to live in?" 
2Samuel7:6 I have not lived in a house from the day I brought the people of Israel up out of Egypt until now. I have been moving from place to place. I have been living in a tent. 
2Samuel7:7 I have moved from place to place with all of the people of Israel. I commanded their rulers to be shepherds over them. I never asked any of those rulers, 'Why haven't you built me a house that has beautiful cedar walls?' "" '" 
2Samuel7:8 So tell my servant David, 'The Lord who rules over all says, ""I took you away from the grasslands. That's where you were taking care of your father's sheep and goats. I made you ruler over my people Israel." 
2Samuel7:9 I have been with you everywhere you have gone. I cut off all of your enemies when you were attacking them.  ' Now I will make you famous. Your name will be just as respected as the names of the most important people on earth. 
2Samuel7:10 I will provide a place where my people Israel can live. I will plant them in the land. Then they will have a home of their own. They will not be bothered anymore. Evil people will no longer crush them, as they did at first." 
2Samuel7:11 That is what your enemies have done ever since I appointed leaders over my people Israel. But I will give you peace and rest from all of them.  ' I tell you that I myself will set up a royal house for you. 
2Samuel7:12 Some day your life will come to an end. You will join the members of your family who have already died. Then I will make one of your own sons the next king after you. And I will make his kingdom secure. 
2Samuel7:13 He is the one who will build a house where I will put my Name.  ' I will set up the throne of his kingdom. It will last forever. 
2Samuel7:14 I will be his father. And he will be my son. When he does what is wrong, I will use other men to beat him with rods and whips." 
2Samuel7:15 I took my love away from Saul. I removed him from being king. You were there when I did it. But I will never take my love away from your son. 
2Samuel7:16  ' Your royal house and your kingdom will last forever in my sight. Your throne will last forever. ' 
2Samuel7:17 Nathan reported to David all of the words that the Lord had spoken to him. 
2Samuel7:18 Then King David went into the holy tent. He sat down in front of the Lord. He said, ""Lord and King, who am I? My family isn't important. So why have you brought me this far?" 
2Samuel7:19 I would have thought that you had already done more than enough for me. But now, Lord and King, you have also spoken about what is going to happen to my royal house in days to come. Lord and King, is this your usual way of dealing with people?" 
2Samuel7:20 What more can I say to you? Lord and King, you know all about me." 
2Samuel7:21 You have done a wonderful thing. You have made it known to me. You have done it because that's what you said you would do. It's exactly what you wanted to do for me. 
2Samuel7:22 Lord and King, how great you are! There isn't anyone like you. There isn't any God but you. We have heard about it with our own ears." 
2Samuel7:23 Who is like your people Israel? God, we are the one nation on earth you have saved. You have set us free for yourself. Your name has become famous. You have done great and wonderful things. You have driven out nations and their gods to make room for your people. You saved us when you set us free from Egypt." 
2Samuel7:24 You made Israel your very own people forever. Lord, you have become our God." 
2Samuel7:25 And now, Lord God, keep forever the promise you have made to me and my royal house. Do exactly as you promised." 
2Samuel7:26 Then your name will be honored forever. People will say, 'The Lord rules over all. He is God over Israel.' My royal house will be made secure in your sight." 
2Samuel7:27 Lord who rules over all, you are the God of Israel. Here's what you have shown me. You told me, 'I will build you a royal house.' So I can boldly offer this prayer to you." 
2Samuel7:28 Lord and King, you are God! Your words can be trusted. You have promised many good things to me." 
2Samuel7:29 Now please bless my royal house. Then it will continue forever in your sight. Lord and King, you have spoken. Because you have given my royal house your blessing, it will be blessed forever.""" 
2Samuel8:1 While David was king of Israel, he won many battles over the Philistines. He brought them under his control. He took Metheg Ammah away from them." 
2Samuel8:2 David also won the battle over the people of Moab. He made them lie down on the ground. Then he measured them off with a piece of rope. He put two-thirds of them to death. He let the other third remain alive. So the Moabites were brought under David's rule. They gave him the gifts he required them to bring him. 
2Samuel8:3 David fought against Hadadezer, the son of Rehob. Hadadezer was king of Zobah. He had gone to take back control of the land along the Euphrates River." 
2Samuel8:4 David captured 1,000 of Hadadezer's chariots, 7,000 chariot riders and 20,000 soldiers on foot. He cut the legs of all but 100 of the chariot horses." 
2Samuel8:5 The Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, the king of Zobah. But David struck down 22,000 of them." 
2Samuel8:6 He stationed some soldiers in the Aramean kingdom of Damascus. The people of Aram were brought under his rule. They gave him the gifts he required them to bring him. The Lord helped David win his battles everywhere he went. 
2Samuel8:7 David took the gold shields that belonged to the officers of Hadadezer. He brought the shields to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel8:8 He took a huge amount of bronze from Tebah and Berothai. Those towns belonged to Hadadezer. 
2Samuel8:9 Tou was king of Hamath. He heard that David had won the battle over the entire army of Hadadezer. 
2Samuel8:10 So Tou sent his son Joram to King David. Joram greeted David. He praised him because he had won the battle over Hadadezer. Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. So Joram brought with him articles that were made out of silver, gold and bronze." 
2Samuel8:11 King David set those articles apart for the Lord. He had done the same thing with the silver and gold he had taken from the other nations he had brought under his control. 
2Samuel8:12 Those nations were Edom, Moab, Ammon, Philistia and Amalek. He also set apart for the Lord what he had taken from Hadadezer, the son of Rehob. Hadadezer was king of Zobah." 
2Samuel8:13 David returned after he had struck down 18,000 men of Edom in the Valley of Salt. He became famous for doing it." 
2Samuel8:14 He stationed some soldiers all through Edom. The whole nation of Edom was brought under his rule. The Lord helped David win his battles everywhere he went. 
2Samuel8:15 David ruled over the whole nation of Israel. He did what was fair and right for all of his people. 
2Samuel8:16 Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was commander over the army. Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, kept the records." 
2Samuel8:17 Zadok, the son of Ahitub, was a priest. Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, was also a priest. Seraiah was the secretary." 
2Samuel8:18 Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was commander over the Kerethites and Pelethites. And David's sons were royal advisers." 
2Samuel9:1 David asked, ""Is anyone left from the royal house of Saul? If there is, I want to be kind to him because of Jonathan.""" 
2Samuel9:2 Ziba was a servant in Saul's family. David sent for him to come and see him. The king said to him, ""Are you Ziba?"" ""I'm ready to serve you,"" he replied." 
2Samuel9:3 The king asked, ""Isn't anyone left from the royal house of Saul? God has been very kind to me. I would like to be kind to someone in the same way."" Ziba answered the king, ""A son of Jonathan is still living. Both of his feet were hurt.""" 
2Samuel9:4 Where is he? the king asked. Ziba answered, ""He's in the town of Lo Debar. He's staying at the house of Makir, the son of Ammiel.""" 
2Samuel9:5 So King David had Mephibosheth brought from Makir's house in Lo Debar. 
2Samuel9:6 Mephibosheth came to David. He was the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul. Mephibosheth bowed down to David to show him respect. David said, ""Mephibosheth!"" ""I'm ready to serve you,"" he replied." 
2Samuel9:7 Don't be afraid,"" David told him. ""You can be sure that I will be kind to you because of your father Jonathan. I'll give back to you all of the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul. And I'll always provide what you need.""" 
2Samuel9:8 Mephibosheth bowed down to David. He said, ""Who am I? Why should you pay attention to me? I'm nothing but a dead dog.""" 
2Samuel9:9 Then the king sent for Saul's servant Ziba. He said to him, ""I'm giving your master's grandson everything that belonged to Saul and his family." 
2Samuel9:10 You and your sons and your servants must farm the land for him. You must bring in the crops. Then he'll be taken care of. I'll always provide what he needs. Ziba had 15 sons and 20 servants. 
2Samuel9:11 Then Ziba said to the king, ""I'll do anything you command me to do. You are my king and master."" So David provided what Mephibosheth needed. He treated him like one of the king's sons." 
2Samuel9:12 Mephibosheth had a young son named Mica. All of the members of Ziba's family became servants of Mephibosheth. 
2Samuel9:13 Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem. The king always provided what he needed. Both of his feet were hurt. 
2Samuel10:1 The king of Ammon died. His son Hanun became the next king after him. 
2Samuel10:2 David thought, ""I'm going to be kind to Hanun. His father Nahash was kind to me."" So David sent messengers to Hanun. He wanted them to tell Hanun how sad he was that Hanun's father had died. David's messengers went to the land of Ammon." 
2Samuel10:3 The Ammonite nobles spoke to their master Hanun. They said, ""David has sent messengers to tell you he is sad. They say he wants to honor your father. But the real reason they've come is to look the city over. They want to destroy it.""" 
2Samuel10:4 So Hanun grabbed hold of David's men. He shaved off half of each man's beard. He cut their clothes off just below the waist and left them half naked. Then he sent them away. 
2Samuel10:5 David was told about it. So he sent messengers to his men because they were filled with shame. King David said to them, ""Stay at Jericho until your beards grow out again. Then come back here.""" 
2Samuel10:6 The Ammonites realized that what they had done had made David very angry with them. So they hired 20,000 Aramean soldiers who were on foot. The soldiers came from Beth Rehob and Zobah. The Ammonites also hired the king of Maacah and 1,000 men. And they hired 12,000 men from Tob." 
2Samuel10:7 David heard about it. So he sent Joab out with the entire army of Israel's fighting men. 
2Samuel10:8 The Ammonites marched out. They took up their battle positions at the entrance of their city gate. The Arameans of Zobah and Rehob gathered their troops together in the open country. So did the men of Tob and Maacah. 
2Samuel10:9 Joab saw that there were lines of soldiers in front of him and behind him. So he chose some of the best troops in Israel. He sent them to march out against the Arameans. 
2Samuel10:10 He put the rest of the men under the command of his brother Abishai. Joab sent them to march out against the Ammonites. 
2Samuel10:11 He said, ""Suppose the Arameans are too strong for me. Then you must come and help me. But suppose the Ammonites are too strong for you. Then I'll come and help you." 
2Samuel10:12 Be strong. Let's be brave as we fight for our people and the cities of our God. The Lord will do what he thinks is best. 
2Samuel10:13 Then Joab and the troops who were with him marched out to attack the Arameans. They ran away from him. 
2Samuel10:14 The Ammonites saw that the Arameans were running away. So they ran away from Abishai. They went inside the city. After Joab had fought against the Ammonites, he went back to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel10:15 The Arameans saw that they had been driven away by Israel. So they brought their troops together. 
2Samuel10:16 Hadadezer had some Arameans brought from east of the Euphrates River. They went to Helam under the command of Shobach. He was the commander of Hadadezer's army. 
2Samuel10:17 David was told about it. So he gathered the whole army of Israel together. They went across the Jordan River to Helam. The Arameans lined up their soldiers to go to war against David. They began to fight against him. 
2Samuel10:18 But then they ran away from Israel. David killed 700 of their chariot riders. He killed 40,000 of their soldiers who were on foot. He also struck down Shobach, the commander of their army. Shobach died there." 
2Samuel10:19 All of the kings who were under the rule of Hadadezer saw that Israel had won the battle over them. So they made a peace treaty with the Israelites. They were brought under Israel's rule. After that, the Arameans were afraid to help the Ammonites anymore." 
2Samuel11:1 It was spring. It was the time when kings go off to war. So David sent Joab out with the king's special troops and the whole army of Israel. They destroyed the Ammonites. They went to the city of Rabbah. They surrounded it and got ready to attack it. But David remained in Jerusalem. 
2Samuel11:2 One evening David got up from his bed. He walked around on the roof of his palace. From the roof he saw a woman taking a bath. She was very beautiful. 
2Samuel11:3 David sent a messenger to find out who she was. The messenger returned and said, ""She is Bathsheba. She's the daughter of Eliam. She's the wife of Uriah. He's a Hittite.""" 
2Samuel11:4 Then David sent messengers to get her. She came to him. And he had sex with her. Then she went back home. All of that took place after she had already made herself clean from her monthly period. 
2Samuel11:5 Later, Bathsheba found out she was pregnant. She sent a message to David. It said, ""I'm pregnant.""" 
2Samuel11:6 So David sent a message to Joab. It said, ""Send me Uriah, the Hittite."" Joab sent him to David." 
2Samuel11:7 Uriah came to David. David asked him how Joab and the soldiers were doing. He also asked him how the war was going. 
2Samuel11:8 David said to Uriah, ""Go home and enjoy some time with your wife."" So Uriah left the palace. Then the king sent him a gift." 
2Samuel11:9 But Uriah didn't go home. Instead, he slept at the entrance to the palace. He stayed there with all of his master's servants." 
2Samuel11:10 David was told, ""Uriah didn't go home."" So he sent for Uriah. He said to him, ""You have been away for a long time. Why didn't you go home?""" 
2Samuel11:11 Uriah said to David, ""The ark and the army of Israel and Judah are out there in tents. My master Joab and your special troops are camped in the open fields. How could I go to my house to eat and drink? How could I go there and make love to my wife? I could never do a thing like that. And that's just as sure as you are alive!""" 
2Samuel11:12 Then David said to him, ""Stay here one more day. Tomorrow I'll send you back to the battle."" So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next." 
2Samuel11:13 David invited Uriah to eat and drink with him. David got him drunk. But Uriah still didn't go home. In the evening he went out and slept on his mat. He stayed there among his master's servants. 
2Samuel11:14 The next morning David wrote a letter to Joab. He sent it along with Uriah. 
2Samuel11:15 In it he wrote, ""Put Uriah on the front lines. That's where the fighting is the heaviest. Then pull your men back from him. When you do, the Ammonites will strike him down and kill him.""" 
2Samuel11:16 So Joab attacked the city. He put Uriah at a place where he knew the strongest enemy fighters were. 
2Samuel11:17 The troops came out of the city. They fought against Joab. Some of the men in David's army were killed. Uriah, the Hittite, also died." 
2Samuel11:18 Joab sent David a full report of the battle. 
2Samuel11:19 He told the messenger, ""Tell the king everything that happened in the battle. When you are finished," 
2Samuel11:20 his anger might explode. He might ask you, 'Why did you go so close to the city to fight against it? Didn't you know that the enemy soldiers would shoot arrows down from the wall?" 
2Samuel11:21 Don't you remember how Abimelech, the son of Jerub-Besheth, was killed? A woman dropped a large millstone on him from the wall. That's how he died in Thebez. So why did you go so close to the wall?' If the king asks you that, tell him, 'Your servant Uriah, the Hittite, is also dead.' """ 
2Samuel11:22 The messenger started out for Jerusalem. When he arrived there, he told David everything Joab had sent him to say." 
2Samuel11:23 The messenger said to David, ""The men who were in the city were more powerful than we were. They came out to fight against us in the open. But we drove them back to the entrance of the city gate." 
2Samuel11:24 Then those who were armed with bows shot arrows at us from the wall. Some of your special troops were killed. Your servant Uriah, the Hittite, is also dead.""" 
2Samuel11:25 David told the messenger, ""Tell Joab, 'Don't get upset over what happened. Swords kill one person as well as another. So keep on attacking the city. Destroy it.' Tell that to Joab. It will cheer him up.""" 
2Samuel11:26 Uriah's wife heard that her husband was dead. She sobbed over him. 
2Samuel11:27 When her time of sadness was over, David had her brought to his house. She became his wife. And she had a son by him. But the Lord wasn't pleased with what David had done." 
2Samuel12:1 The Lord sent the prophet Nathan to David. When Nathan came to him, he said, ""Two men lived in the same town. One was rich. The other was poor." 
2Samuel12:2 The rich man had a very large number of sheep and cattle. 
2Samuel12:3 But all the poor man had was one little female lamb. He had bought it. He raised it. It grew up with him and his children. It shared his food. It drank from his cup. It even slept in his arms. It was just like a daughter to him. 
2Samuel12:4 One day a traveler came to the rich man. The rich man wanted to prepare a meal for him. But he didn't want to kill one of his own sheep or cattle. Instead, he took the little female lamb that belonged to the poor man. Then he cooked it for the traveler who had come to him.""" 
2Samuel12:5 David burned with anger against the rich man. He said to Nathan, ""The man who did that is worthy of death. And that's just as sure as the Lord is alive." 
2Samuel12:6 The man must pay back four times as much as that lamb was worth. How could he do such a thing? And he wasn't even sorry he had done it. 
2Samuel12:7 Then Nathan said to David, ""You are the man! The Lord, the God of Israel, says, 'I anointed you king over Israel. I saved you from Saul's powerful hand." 
2Samuel12:8 I gave you everything that belonged to your master Saul. I even put his wives into your arms. I made you king over the people of Israel and Judah. And if all of that had not been enough for you, I would have given you even more." 
2Samuel12:9  'Why did you turn your back on what I told you to do? You did what is evil in my sight. You made sure that Uriah, the Hittite, would be killed in battle. You took his wife to be your own. You let the men of Ammon kill him with their swords." 
2Samuel12:10  'So time after time members of your own royal house will be killed with swords. That's because you turned your back on me. You took the wife of Uriah, the Hittite, to be your own.'" 
2Samuel12:11 The Lord also says, 'I am going to bring trouble on you. It will come from your own family. I will take your wives away. Your own eyes will see it. I will give your wives to a man who is close to you. He will have sex with them in the middle of the day." 
2Samuel12:12 You committed your sins in secret. But I will make sure that the sin the man commits with your wives will take place in the middle of the day. Everyone in Israel will see it.' 
2Samuel12:13 Then David said to Nathan, ""I have sinned against the Lord."" Nathan replied, ""The Lord has taken away your sin. You aren't going to die." 
2Samuel12:14 But you have dared to make fun of the Lord. So the son who has been born to you will die. 
2Samuel12:15 Nathan went home. Then the Lord made the child that had been born to Uriah's wife by David very sick. 
2Samuel12:16 David begged God to heal the child. David didn't eat anything. He spent his nights lying on the ground. 
2Samuel12:17 His most trusted servants stood beside him. They wanted him to get up from the ground. But he refused to do it. And he wouldn't eat any food with them. 
2Samuel12:18 On the seventh day the child died. David's servants were afraid to tell him the child was dead. They thought, ""While the child was still alive, we spoke to David. But he wouldn't listen to us. So how can we tell him the child is dead? He might do something terrible to himself.""" 
2Samuel12:19 David saw that his servants were whispering to each other. Then he realized the child was dead. Has the child died? he asked. Yes,"" they replied. ""He's dead.""" 
2Samuel12:20 Then David got up from the ground. After he washed himself, he put on lotions. He changed his clothes. He went into the house of the Lord and worshiped him. Then he went to his own house. He asked for some food. They served it to him. And he ate it." 
2Samuel12:21 His servants asked him, ""Why are you acting like this? While the child was still alive, you wouldn't eat anything. You cried a lot. But now that the child is dead, you get up and eat!""" 
2Samuel12:22 He answered, ""While the child was still alive, I didn't eat anything. And I cried a lot. I thought, 'Who knows? The Lord might show favor to me. He might let the child live.'" 
2Samuel12:23 But now he's dead. So why should I go without eating? Can I bring him back to life again? Someday I'll go to him. But he won't return to me. 
2Samuel12:24 Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba. He went to her and made love to her. Some time later she had a son. He was given the name Solomon. The Lord loved him. 
2Samuel12:25 So the Lord sent a message through the prophet Nathan. It said, ""Name the boy Jedidiah.""" 
2Samuel12:26 During that time, Joab fought against Rabbah. It was the royal city of the Ammonites. It had high walls around it. Joab was about to capture it." 
2Samuel12:27 He sent messengers to David. He told them to say, ""I have fought against Rabbah. I've taken control of its water supply." 
2Samuel12:28 So bring the rest of the troops together. Surround the city and get ready to attack it. Then capture it. If you don't, I'll capture it myself. Then it will be named after me.""" 
2Samuel12:29 So David brought the whole army together and went to Rabbah. He attacked it and captured it. 
2Samuel12:30 He took the gold crown off the head of the king of Ammon. The crown weighed 75 pounds. It had jewels in it. It was placed on David's head. He took a huge amount of goods from the city. 
2Samuel12:31 He brought out the people who were there. He made them work with saws and iron picks and axes. He forced them to make bricks. He did that to all of the towns in Ammon. Then he and his entire army returned to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel13:1 Some time later, David's son Amnon fell in love with Tamar. She was the beautiful sister of Absalom. He was another one of David's sons." 
2Samuel13:2 Amnon's sister Tamar was a virgin. It seemed impossible for him to do what he wanted to do with her. But he wanted her so much it almost made him sick. 
2Samuel13:3 Amnon had a friend named Jonadab. He was the son of David's brother Shimeah. Jonadab was a very clever man. 
2Samuel13:4 He asked Amnon, ""You are the king's son, aren't you? So why do you look so worn out every morning? Won't you tell me?"" Amnon answered, ""I'm in love with Tamar. She's the sister of my brother Absalom.""" 
2Samuel13:5 Go to bed,"" Jonadab said. ""Pretend to be sick. Your father will come to see you. When he does, tell him, 'I would like my sister Tamar to come and give me something to eat. Let her prepare the food right here in front of me where I can watch her. Then she can feed it to me.' """ 
2Samuel13:6 So Amnon went to bed. He pretended to be sick. The king came to see him. Amnon said to him, ""I would like my sister Tamar to come here. I want to watch her make some special bread. Then she can feed it to me.""" 
2Samuel13:7 David sent a message to Tamar at the palace. It said, ""Go to your brother Amnon's house. Prepare some food for him.""" 
2Samuel13:8 So Tamar went to the house of her brother Amnon. He was lying in bed. She got some dough and mixed it. She shaped the bread right there in front of him. And she baked it. 
2Samuel13:9 Then she took the bread out of the pan and served it to him. But he refused to eat it. Send everyone out of here,"" Amnon said. So everyone left him." 
2Samuel13:10 Then he said to Tamar, ""Bring the food here into my bedroom. Please feed it to me."" So Tamar picked up the bread she had prepared. She brought it to her brother Amnon in his bedroom." 
2Samuel13:11 She took it to him so he could eat it. But he grabbed hold of her. He said, ""My sister, come and have sex with me.""" 
2Samuel13:12 Don't do this, my brother!"" she said to him. ""Don't force me to have sex with you. An evil thing like that should never be done in Israel! Don't do it!" 
2Samuel13:13 What about me? How could I ever get rid of my shame? And what about you? You would be as foolish as any evil person in Israel. Please speak to the king. He won't keep me from getting married to you. 
2Samuel13:14 But Amnon refused to listen to her. He was stronger than she was. So he raped her. 
2Samuel13:15 Then Amnon was filled with deep hatred for Tamar. In fact, he hated her now more than he had loved her before. He said to her, ""Get up! Get out!""" 
2Samuel13:16 No! she said to him. Don't send me away. That would be worse than what you have already done to me. But he refused to listen to her. 
2Samuel13:17 He sent for his personal servant. He said, ""Get this woman out of here. Lock the door behind her.""" 
2Samuel13:18 So his servant threw her out. Then he locked the door behind her. Tamar was wearing a beautiful robe. It was the kind of robe the virgin daughters of the king wore. 
2Samuel13:19 She put ashes on her head. She tore the beautiful robe she was wearing. She put her hands on her head and went away. She was sobbing out loud as she went. 
2Samuel13:20 When her brother Absalom saw her, he spoke to her. He said, ""Has Amnon, that brother of yours, forced you to have sex with him? My sister, don't let it upset you. Don't let it bother you. He's your brother."" After that, Tamar lived in her brother Absalom's house. She was very lonely." 
2Samuel13:21 King David heard about everything that had happened. So he became very angry. 
2Samuel13:22 Absalom never said a word of any kind to Amnon. He hated Amnon because he had brought shame on his sister Tamar. 
2Samuel13:23 Two years later, Absalom invited all of the king's sons to come to Baal Hazor. It was near the border of Ephraim. The workers who clipped the wool off Absalom's sheep were there." 
2Samuel13:24 Absalom went to the king. He said, ""I've had my workers come to clip the wool. Will you and your officials please join me?""" 
2Samuel13:25 No, my son,"" the king replied. ""All of us shouldn't go. It would be too much trouble for you."" Although Absalom begged him, the king still refused to go. But he gave Absalom his blessing." 
2Samuel13:26 Then Absalom said, ""If you won't come, please let my brother Amnon come with us."" The king asked him, ""Why should he go with you?""" 
2Samuel13:27 But Absalom begged him. So the king sent Amnon with him. He also sent the rest of his sons. 
2Samuel13:28 Absalom ordered his men, ""Listen! When Amnon has had too much wine to drink, I'll say to you, 'Strike Amnon down.' When I do, kill him. Don't be afraid. I've given you an order, haven't I? Be strong and brave.""" 
2Samuel13:29 So Absalom's men killed Amnon, just as Absalom had ordered. Then all of the king's sons got on their mules and rode away." 
2Samuel13:30 While they were on their way, a report came to David. It said, ""Absalom has struck down all of your sons. Not one of them is left alive.""" 
2Samuel13:31 The king stood up and tore his clothes. Then he lay down on the ground. All of his servants stood near him. They had also torn their clothes. 
2Samuel13:32 Jonadab, the son of David's brother Shimeah, spoke up. He said, ""You shouldn't think that all of the princes have been killed. The only one who is dead is Amnon. Absalom had planned to kill him ever since the day Amnon raped his sister Tamar." 
2Samuel13:33 You are my king and master. You shouldn't be concerned about this report. It's not true that all of your sons are dead. The only one who is dead is Amnon. 
2Samuel13:34 While all of that was taking place, Absalom ran away. The man on guard duty at Jerusalem looked up. He saw many people coming on the road west of him. They were coming down the side of the hill. He went and spoke to the king. He said, ""I see men coming down the road from Horonaim. They are coming down the side of the hill.""" 
2Samuel13:35 Jonadab said to the king, ""See, your sons are coming. It has happened just as I said it would.""" 
2Samuel13:36 As he finished speaking, the king's sons came in. They were sobbing out loud. The king and all of his servants were also sobbing very bitterly." 
2Samuel13:37 When Absalom ran away, he went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud. Talmai was king of Geshur. King David sobbed over his son every day." 
2Samuel13:38 So Absalom ran away and went to Geshur. He stayed there for three years. 
2Samuel13:39 After some time the king got over his sorrow because of Amnon's death. Then he longed to go to Absalom. 
2Samuel14:1 Joab, the son of Zeruiah, knew that the king longed to see Absalom." 
2Samuel14:2 So Joab sent someone to Tekoa to have a wise woman brought back from there. Joab said to her, ""Pretend you are filled with sadness. Put on black clothes. Don't use any makeup. Act like a woman who has spent many days sobbing over someone who has died." 
2Samuel14:3 Then go to the king. Give him the message I'm about to give you. And Joab told her what to say. 
2Samuel14:4 The woman from Tekoa went to the king. She bowed down with her face toward the ground. She did it to show him respect. She said, ""King David, please help me!""" 
2Samuel14:5 The king asked her, ""What's bothering you?"" She said, ""I'm a widow. My husband is dead." 
2Samuel14:6 I had two sons. They got into a fight with each other in the field. No one was there to separate them. One of my sons struck the other one down and killed him. 
2Samuel14:7 Now my whole family group has risen up against me. They say, 'Hand over the one who struck his brother down. Then we can put him to death for killing his brother. That will also get rid of the one who will receive the family property.' They want to kill the only living son I have left, just as someone would put out a burning coal. That would leave my husband without any son on the face of the earth to carry on his name.""" 
2Samuel14:8 The king said to the woman, ""Go home. I'll give an order to make sure you are taken care of.""" 
2Samuel14:9 But the woman from Tekoa said to him, ""You are my king and master. No matter what you do, I and my family will take the blame for it. You and your royal family won't be guilty of doing anything wrong.""" 
2Samuel14:10 The king replied, ""If people give you any trouble, bring them to me. They won't bother you again.""" 
2Samuel14:11 She said, ""Please pray to the Lord your God. Pray that he will keep our nearest male relative from killing my other son. Then my son won't be destroyed."" ""You can be sure that the Lord lives,"" the king said. ""And you can be just as sure that not one hair of your son's head will fall to the ground.""" 
2Samuel14:12 Then the woman said, ""King David, please let me say something else to you."" ""Go ahead,"" he replied." 
2Samuel14:13 The woman said, ""You are the king. So why have you done something that brings so much harm on God's people? When you do that, you hand down a sentence against yourself. You won't let the son you drove away come back." 
2Samuel14:14 All of us must die. We are like water that is spilled on the ground. It can't be put back into the jar. But God doesn't take life away. Instead, he finds a way to bring back anyone who was driven away from him." 
2Samuel14:15 King David, I've come here to say this to you now. I've done it because people have made me afraid. I thought, 'I'll go and speak to the king. Perhaps he'll do what I'm asking." 
2Samuel14:16 Perhaps he'll agree to save me from the man who is trying to cut off me and my son from the property God gave us.' 
2Samuel14:17 So now I'm saying, 'May what you have told me bring me peace and rest. You are like an angel of God. You know what is good and what is evil. May the Lord your God be with you.' """ 
2Samuel14:18 Then the king said to the woman, ""I'm going to ask you a question. I want you to tell me the truth."" ""Please ask me anything you want to,"" the woman said." 
2Samuel14:19 The king asked, ""Joab told you to say all of this, didn't he?"" The woman answered, ""What you have told me is exactly right. And that's just as sure as you are alive. It's true that Joab directed me to do this. He told me everything he wanted me to say." 
2Samuel14:20 He did it to change the way things now are. You are as wise as an angel of God. You know everything that happens in the land. 
2Samuel14:21 Later the king said to Joab, ""All right. I'll do what you want. Go. Bring the young man Absalom back.""" 
2Samuel14:22 Joab bowed down with his face toward the ground. He did it to honor the king. And he asked God to bless the king. He said, ""You are my king and master. Today I know that you are pleased with me. You have given me what I asked for.""" 
2Samuel14:23 Then Joab went to Geshur. He brought Absalom back to Jerusalem. 
2Samuel14:24 But the king said, ""He must go to his own house. I don't want him to come and see me."" So Absalom went to his own house. He didn't go to see the king." 
2Samuel14:25 In the whole land of Israel there wasn't any man as handsome as Absalom was. That's why everyone praised him. From the top of his head to the bottom of his feet he didn't have any flaws. 
2Samuel14:26 He used to cut his hair when it became too heavy for him. Then he would weigh it. It weighed five pounds in keeping with the standard weights that were used in the palace. 
2Samuel14:27 Three sons and a daughter were born to Absalom. The daughter's name was Tamar. She became a beautiful woman. 
2Samuel14:28 Absalom lived in Jerusalem for two years without going to see the king. 
2Samuel14:29 Then Absalom sent for Joab. He wanted to send him to the king. But Joab refused to come to Absalom. So Absalom sent for him a second time. But Joab still refused to come. 
2Samuel14:30 Then Absalom said to his servants, ""Joab's field is next to mine. He has barley growing there. Go and set it on fire."" So Absalom's servants set the field on fire." 
2Samuel14:31 Joab finally went to Absalom's house. He said to Absalom, ""Why did your servants set my field on fire?""" 
2Samuel14:32 Absalom said to Joab, ""I sent a message to you. It said, 'Come here. I want to send you to the king. I want you to ask him for me, ""Why did you bring me back from Geshur? I would be better off if I were still there!"" ' Now then, I want to go and see the king. If I'm guilty of doing anything wrong, let him put me to death.""" 
2Samuel14:33 So Joab went to the king and told him that. Then the king sent for Absalom. He came in and bowed down to the king with his face toward the ground. And the king kissed Absalom. 
2Samuel15:1 Some time later, Absalom got a chariot and horses for himself. He also got 50 men to run in front of him." 
2Samuel15:2 He would get up early. He would stand by the side of the road that led to the city gate. Sometimes a person would come with a case for the king to decide. Then Absalom would call out to him, ""What town are you from?"" He would answer, ""I'm from one of the tribes of Israel.""" 
2Samuel15:3 Absalom would say, ""Look, your claims are based on the law. So you have every right to make them. But the king doesn't have anyone here who can listen to your case.""" 
2Samuel15:4 Absalom would continue, ""I wish I were appointed judge in the land! Then anyone who has a case or a claim could come to me. I would make sure he is treated fairly.""" 
2Samuel15:5 Sometimes people would approach Absalom and bow down to him. Then he would reach out his hand. He would take hold of them and kiss them. 
2Samuel15:6 Absalom did that to all of the people of Israel who came to the king with their cases or claims. That's why the hearts of the people were turned toward him. 
2Samuel15:7 After Absalom had lived in Jerusalem for four years, he went and spoke to the king. He said, ""Let me go to Hebron. I want to keep a promise I made to the Lord." 
2Samuel15:8 When I was living at Geshur in Aram, I made a promise. I said, 'If the Lord takes me back to Jerusalem, I'll go to Hebron and worship him there.' """ 
2Samuel15:9 The king said to him, ""Go in peace."" So he went to Hebron." 
2Samuel15:10 Then Absalom sent messengers secretly to all of the tribes of Israel. They said, ""Listen for the sound of trumpets. As soon as you hear them, say, 'Absalom has become king in Hebron.' """ 
2Samuel15:11 Absalom had taken 200 men from Jerusalem with him to Hebron. He had invited them to be his guests. They went without having any idea what was going to happen. 
2Samuel15:12 While Absalom was offering sacrifices, he sent for Ahithophel. Ahithophel was David's adviser. He came to Absalom from Giloh, his hometown. The number of people who followed Absalom kept growing. So he became more and more able to carry out his plans against David." 
2Samuel15:13 A messenger came and spoke to David. He told him, ""The hearts of the people are turned toward Absalom.""" 
2Samuel15:14 Then David spoke to all of his officials who were with him in Jerusalem. He said, ""Come on! We have to leave right away! If we don't, none of us will escape from Absalom. He'll move quickly to catch up with us. He'll destroy us. His men will kill everyone in the city with their swords.""" 
2Samuel15:15 The king's officials answered him, ""You are our king and master. We're ready to do anything you want.""" 
2Samuel15:16 The king started out. Everyone in his whole family went with him. But he left ten concubines behind to take care of the palace. 
2Samuel15:17 So the king and all those who were with him left. They stopped at a place that wasn't very far away. 
2Samuel15:18 All of David's officials marched past him. All of the Kerethites and Pelethites marched along with them. And all of the 600 men who had come with him from Gath marched in front of him. 
2Samuel15:19 The king spoke to Ittai. He was from Gath. The king said to him, ""Why do you want to come along with us? Go back. Stay with King Absalom. You are a stranger. You left your own country." 
2Samuel15:20 You came to join me only a short time ago. So why should I make you wander around with us now? I don't even know where I'm going. So go on back. Take with you the others who are from your country. And may the Lord be kind and faithful to you. 
2Samuel15:21 But Ittai replied to the king, ""You are my king and master. I want to be where you are. It doesn't matter whether I live or die. And that's just as sure as the Lord and you are alive.""" 
2Samuel15:22 David said to Ittai, ""Go ahead then. Keep marching with my men."" So Ittai, the Gittite, kept marching. All of his men and their families marched with him." 
2Samuel15:23 All of the people in the countryside sobbed out loud as David and all of his followers passed by. The king went across the Kidron Valley. He and all of the people who were with him moved on toward the desert. 
2Samuel15:24 Zadok also went with them. Some of the Levites went with him. They were carrying the ark of the covenant of God. They set the ark down. Abiathar offered sacrifices until all of the people had left the city. 
2Samuel15:25 Then the king said to Zadok, ""Take the ark of God back into the city. If the Lord is pleased with me, he'll bring me back. He'll let me see the ark again. He'll also let me see Jerusalem again. That's the place where he lives." 
2Samuel15:26 But suppose he says, 'I am not pleased with you.' Then I accept that. Let him do to me what he thinks is best.""" 
2Samuel15:27 The king spoke again to the priest Zadok. He said, ""You are a prophet, aren't you? Go back to the city in peace. Take your son Ahimaaz with you. Also take Abiathar and his son Jonathan with you." 
2Samuel15:28 I'll wait at the place in the desert where we can go across the Jordan River. I'll wait there until you send word to let me know what's happening. 
2Samuel15:29 So Zadok and Abiathar took the ark of God back to Jerusalem. They stayed there. 
2Samuel15:30 But David went on up the Mount of Olives. He was sobbing as he went. His head was covered, and he was barefoot. All of the people who were with him covered their heads too. And they were sobbing as they went up." 
2Samuel15:31 David had been told, ""Ahithophel is one of those who are making secret plans with Absalom against you."" So David prayed, ""Lord, make Ahithophel's advice look foolish.""" 
2Samuel15:32 David arrived at the top of the Mount of Olives. That's where people used to worship God. Hushai, the Arkite, was there to meet him. His robe was torn. There was dust on his head." 
2Samuel15:33 David said to him, ""If you go with me, you will be too much trouble for me." 
2Samuel15:34 So return to the city. Say to Absalom, 'King Absalom, I'll be your servant. In the past, I was your father's servant. But now I'll be your servant.' If you do that, you can help me by making sure Ahithophel's advice fails." 
2Samuel15:35 The priests Zadok and Abiathar will be there with you. Tell them everything you hear in the king's palace. 
2Samuel15:36 They have their sons Ahimaaz and Jonathan there with them. Send them to tell me everything you hear. 
2Samuel15:37 So David's friend Hushai went to Jerusalem. He arrived just as Absalom was entering the city. 
2Samuel16:1 David went just beyond the top of the Mount of Olives. Ziba was waiting there to meet him. He was Mephibosheth's manager. He had several donkeys with saddles on them. They were carrying 200 loaves of bread and 100 raisin cakes. They were also carrying 100 fig cakes and a bottle of wine. The bottle was made out of animal skin. 
2Samuel16:2 The king asked Ziba, ""Why have you brought all of these things?"" Ziba answered, ""The donkeys are for the king's family to ride on. The bread and fruit are for the people to eat. The wine will make those who get tired in the desert feel like new again.""" 
2Samuel16:3 Then the king asked, ""Where is your master's grandson Mephibosheth?"" Ziba said to him, ""He's staying in Jerusalem. He thinks, 'Today the people of Israel will give me back my grandfather Saul's kingdom.' """ 
2Samuel16:4 Then the king said to Ziba, ""Everything that belonged to Mephibosheth belongs to you now."" ""You are my king and master,"" Ziba said. ""I make myself low in front of you. I bow down to you. May you be pleased with me.""" 
2Samuel16:5 King David approached Bahurim. As he did, a man came out toward him. The man was from the same family group that Saul was from. His name was Shimei. He was the son of Gera. As he came out of the town, he called down curses on David." 
2Samuel16:6 He threw stones at David and all of his officials. He did it even though all of the troops and the special guard were there. They were to the right and left of David. 
2Samuel16:7 As Shimei called down curses, he said, ""Get out! Get out, you murderer! You are a worthless and evil man!" 
2Samuel16:8 You spilled the blood of a lot of people in Saul's family. You took over his kingdom. Now the Lord is paying you back. He has handed the kingdom over to your son Absalom. You have been destroyed because you are a murderer! 
2Samuel16:9 Then Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, spoke to the king. He said, ""King David, why should we let this dead dog call down curses on you? Let me go over there. I'll cut off his head.""" 
2Samuel16:10 But the king said, ""You and Joab are sons of Zeruiah. What do you and I have in common? Maybe the Lord said to him, 'Call down curses on David.' If he did, who can ask him, 'Why are you doing this?' """ 
2Samuel16:11 Then David spoke to Abishai and all of his officials. He said, ""My very own son Absalom is trying to kill me. How much more should this man from Benjamin want to kill me! Leave him alone. Let him call down curses. The Lord has told him to do it." 
2Samuel16:12 Maybe the Lord will see how much I'm suffering. Maybe he'll reward me with good things in place of the curses that are being called down on me today. 
2Samuel16:13 So David and his men kept going along the road. At the same time, Shimei was going along the hillside across from him. He was calling down curses as he went. He was throwing stones at David. He was showering him with dirt." 
2Samuel16:14 The king and all of the people who were with him came to the place they had planned to go to. They were very tired. So David rested there. 
2Samuel16:15 During that time, Absalom and all of the men of Israel came to Jerusalem. Ahithophel was with him." 
2Samuel16:16 Then Hushai, the Arkite, went to Absalom. He said to him, ""May the king live a long time! May the king live a long time!"" Hushai was David's friend." 
2Samuel16:17 Absalom asked Hushai, ""Is this the way you show love to your friend? Why didn't you go with him?""" 
2Samuel16:18 Hushai said to Absalom, ""Why should I? You are the one the Lord has chosen. These people and all of the men of Israel have also chosen you. I want to be on your side. I want to stay with you." 
2Samuel16:19 After all, who else should I serve? Shouldn't I serve the king's son? I will serve you, just as I served your father.""" 
2Samuel16:20 Absalom said to Ahithophel, ""Give us your advice. What should we do?""" 
2Samuel16:21 Ahithophel answered, ""Your father left some concubines behind to take care of the palace. Go and have sex with them. Then all of the people of Israel will hear about it. They will hear that you have made yourself smell very bad to your father. Everyone who is with you will become braver.""" 
2Samuel16:22 So they set up a tent for Absalom on the roof of the palace. He went in and had sex with his father's concubines. Everyone in Israel saw it. 
2Samuel16:23 In those days the advice Ahithophel gave was as good as advice from someone who asks God for guidance. That's what David and Absalom thought about all of Ahithopel's advice. 
2Samuel17:1 One day Ahithophel said to Absalom, ""Here's what I suggest. Choose 12,000 men. Start out tonight and go after David." 
2Samuel17:2 Attack him while he's tired and weak. Fill him with terror. Then all of the people who are with him will run away. Don't strike down anyone except the king. 
2Samuel17:3 Bring all of the other people back. After the man you want to kill is dead, everyone else will return to you. And none of the people will be harmed.""" 
2Samuel17:4 Ahithophel's plan seemed good to Absalom. It also seemed good to all of the elders of Israel. 
2Samuel17:5 But Absalom said, ""Send for Hushai, the Arkite. Then we can find out what he suggests.""" 
2Samuel17:6 Hushai came to him. Absalom said, ""Ahithophel has given us his advice. Should we do what he says? If we shouldn't, tell us what you would do.""" 
2Samuel17:7 Hushai replied to Absalom, ""The advice Ahithophel has given you isn't good this time." 
2Samuel17:8 You know your father and his men. They are fighters. They are as strong as a wild bear whose cubs have been stolen from her. Besides, your father really knows how to fight. He won't spend the night with his troops." 
2Samuel17:9 In fact, he's probably hiding in a cave or some other place right now. ""Suppose he attacks your troops first. When people hear about it, they'll say, 'Many of the troops who followed Absalom have been killed.'" 
2Samuel17:10 Then the hearts of your soldiers will melt away in fear. Even those who are as brave as a lion will be terrified. That's because everyone in Israel knows that your father is a fighter. They know that those who are with him are brave. 
2Samuel17:11 So here's what I suggest. Bring together all of the men of Israel from the town of Dan all the way to Beersheba. They are as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. You yourself should lead them into battle. 
2Samuel17:12 Then we'll attack David no matter where we find him. As dew completely covers the ground, we'll completely overpower his entire army. We won't leave him or any of his men alive." 
2Samuel17:13 He might try to get away by going into a city. If he does, all of us will bring ropes to that city. We'll drag the whole city down into the valley. No one will be able to find even a piece of that city.""" 
2Samuel17:14 Absalom and all of the men of Israel agreed. They said, ""The advice of Hushai, the Arkite, is better than the advice of Ahithophel."" The Lord had decided that Ahithophel's good advice would fail. The Lord wanted to bring horrible trouble on Absalom." 
2Samuel17:15 Hushai spoke to the priests Zadok and Abiathar. He said, ""Ahithophel has given advice to Absalom and the elders of Israel. He suggested that they should do one thing. But I suggested something else." 
2Samuel17:16 Send a message right away. Tell David, 'Don't spend the night at the place in the desert where people can go across the Jordan River. Make sure you go on across. If you don't, you and all of the people who are with you will be swallowed up.' """ 
2Samuel17:17 Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at En Rogel just outside Jerusalem. They knew they would be in danger if anyone saw them entering the city. A female servant was supposed to go and tell them what had happened. Then they were supposed to go and tell King David. 
2Samuel17:18 But a young man saw Jonathan and Ahimaaz and told Absalom about it. So the two men left quickly. They went to the house of a man in Bahurim. He had a well in his courtyard. They climbed down into it. 
2Samuel17:19 The man's wife got a covering and spread it out over the opening of the well. Then she scattered grain on the covering. So no one knew that the men were hiding in the well. 
2Samuel17:20 Absalom's men came to the house. They asked the woman, ""Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?"" She answered, ""They went across the brook."" When the men looked around, they didn't find anyone. So they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel17:21 After the men had gone, Jonathan and Ahimaaz climbed out of the well. They went to tell King David what they had found out. They said to him, ""Go across the river right away. Ahithophel has told Absalom how to come after you and strike you down.""" 
2Samuel17:22 So David and all of the people who were with him started out. They went across the Jordan River. By sunrise, everyone had crossed over." 
2Samuel17:23 Ahithophel saw that his advice wasn't being followed. So he put a saddle on his donkey. He started out for his house in his hometown. When he got there, he put everything in order. He made out his will. Then he killed himself. So he died, and his body was buried in his father's tomb." 
2Samuel17:24 David went to Mahanaim. Absalom went across the Jordan River with all of the men of Israel. 
2Samuel17:25 Absalom had made Amasa commander of the army in place of Joab. Amasa was the son of a man named Jether. Jether belonged to the family line of Ishmael. He had gotten married to Abigail. She was the daughter of Nahash and the sister of Zeruiah. Zeruiah was the mother of Joab. 
2Samuel17:26 Absalom and the people of Israel camped in the land of Gilead. 
2Samuel17:27 David came to Mahanaim. Shobi, the son of Nahash, met him there. Shobi was from Rabbah in the land of Ammon. Makir, the son of Ammiel from Lo Debar, met him there too. So did Barzillai from Rogelim in the land of Gilead." 
2Samuel17:28 They brought beds, bowls and clay pots. They brought wheat, barley, flour, and grain that had been cooked. They brought beans and lentils." 
2Samuel17:29 They brought honey, butter, sheep and cheese that was made from cows' milk. They brought all of that food for David and his people to eat. They said, ""These people have become hungry. They've become tired and thirsty in the desert.""" 
2Samuel18:1 David brought together the men who were with him. He appointed commanders of thousands over some of them. He appointed commanders of hundreds over the others. 
2Samuel18:2 Then David sent the troops out in three companies. One company was under the command of Joab. Another was under Joab's brother Abishai, the son of Zeruiah. The last was under Ittai, the Gittite. The king told the troops, ""You can be sure that I myself will march out with you.""" 
2Samuel18:3 But the men said, ""You must not march out. If we are forced to run away, our enemies won't care about us. Even if half of us die, they won't care. But you are worth 10,000 of us. So it would be better for you to stay here in the city. Then you can send us help if we need it.""" 
2Samuel18:4 The king said, ""I'll do what you think is best."" So the king stood beside the city gate. The whole army marched out in companies of hundreds and companies of thousands." 
2Samuel18:5 The king gave an order to Joab, Abishai and Ittai. He commanded them, ""Be gentle with the young man Absalom. Do it for me."" All of the troops heard the king give the commanders that order about Absalom." 
2Samuel18:6 David's army marched into the field to fight against Israel. The battle took place in the forest of Ephraim. 
2Samuel18:7 There David's men won the battle over Israel's army. A huge number of men were wounded or killed that day. The total number was 20,000." 
2Samuel18:8 The fighting spread out over the whole countryside. But more men were killed in the forest that day than out in the open. 
2Samuel18:9 Absalom happened to come across some of David's men. He was riding his mule. The mule went under the thick branches of a large oak tree. Absalom's head got caught in the tree. He was left hanging in the air. The mule he was riding kept on going. 
2Samuel18:10 One of David's men saw what had happened. He told Joab, ""I just saw Absalom hanging in an oak tree.""" 
2Samuel18:11 Joab said to the man, ""What! You saw him? Why didn't you strike him down right there? Then I would have had to give you four ounces of silver and a soldier's belt.""" 
2Samuel18:12 But the man replied, ""I wouldn't lift my hand to harm the king's son. I wouldn't do it even for 25 pounds of silver. We heard the king's command to you and Abishai and Ittai. He said, 'Be careful not to hurt the young man Absalom. Do it for me.'" 
2Samuel18:13 Suppose I had put my life in danger by killing him. The king would have found out about it. Nothing is hidden from him. And you wouldn't have stood up for me. 
2Samuel18:14 Joab said, ""I'm not going to waste any more time on you."" So he got three javelins. Then he went over and drove them into Absalom's heart. He did it while Absalom was still hanging there alive in the oak tree." 
2Samuel18:15 Ten of the men who were carrying Joab's armor surrounded Absalom. They struck him down and killed him. 
2Samuel18:16 Then Joab blew his trumpet. He ordered his troops to stop chasing Israel's army. 
2Samuel18:17 Joab's men threw Absalom's body into a big pit in the forest. They covered his body with a large pile of rocks. While all of that was going on, all of the Israelites ran back to their homes." 
2Samuel18:18 Earlier in his life Absalom had set up a pillar in the King's Valley. He had put it up as a monument to himself. He thought, ""I don't have a son to carry on the memory of my name."" So he named the pillar after himself. It is still called Absalom's Monument to this very day." 
2Samuel18:19 Ahimaaz said to Joab, ""Let me run and take the news to the king. Let me tell him that the Lord has saved him from the power of his enemies."" Ahimaaz was the son of Zadok." 
2Samuel18:20 I don't want you to take the news to the king today,"" Joab told him. ""You can do it some other time. But you must not do it today, because the king's son is dead.""" 
2Samuel18:21 Then Joab said to a man from Cush, ""Go. Tell the king what you have seen."" The man bowed down in front of Joab. Then he ran off." 
2Samuel18:22 Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, spoke again to Joab. He said, ""I don't care what happens to me. Please let me run behind the man from Cush."" But Joab replied, ""My son, why do you want to go? You don't have any news that will bring you a reward.""" 
2Samuel18:23 He said, ""I don't care what happens. I want to run."" So Joab said, ""Run!"" Then Ahimaaz ran across the flatlands of the Jordan River. As he ran, he passed the man from Cush." 
2Samuel18:24 David was sitting in the area between the inner and outer gates of the city. The man on guard duty went up to the roof over the entrance of the gate by the wall. As he looked out, he saw someone running alone." 
2Samuel18:25 He called out to the king and reported it. The king said, ""If the runner is alone, he must be bringing good news."" The man came closer and closer." 
2Samuel18:26 Then the man on guard duty saw another man running. He called out to the man who was guarding the gate. He said, ""Look! There's another man running alone!"" The king said, ""He must be bringing good news too.""" 
2Samuel18:27 The man on guard duty said, ""I can see that the first one runs like Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok."" ""He's a good man,"" the king said. ""He's bringing good news.""" 
2Samuel18:28 Then Ahimaaz called out to the king, ""Everything's all right!"" He bowed down in front of the king with his face toward the ground. He said, ""You are my king and master. Give praise to the Lord your God! He has handed over to you the men who lifted their hands to kill you.""" 
2Samuel18:29 The king asked, ""Is the young man Absalom safe?"" Ahimaaz answered, ""I saw total disorder. I saw it just as Joab was about to send the king's servant and me to you. But I don't know what it was all about.""" 
2Samuel18:30 The king said, ""Stand over there and wait."" So he stepped over to one side and stood there." 
2Samuel18:31 Then the man from Cush arrived. He said, ""You are my king and master. I'm bringing you some good news. The Lord has saved you today from all those who were trying to kill you.""" 
2Samuel18:32 The king asked the man from Cush, ""Is the young man Absalom safe?"" The man replied, ""King David, may your enemies be like that young man. May all those who rise up to harm you be like him.""" 
2Samuel18:33 The king was very upset. He went up to the room over the entrance of the gate and sobbed. As he went, he said, ""My son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! I wish I had died instead of you. Absalom! My son, my son!""" 
2Samuel19:1 Someone told Joab, ""The king is sobbing over Absalom. He's filled with sadness because his son has died.""" 
2Samuel19:2 The army had won a great battle that day. But their joy turned into sadness. That's because someone had told the troops, ""The king is filled with sorrow because his son is dead.""" 
2Samuel19:3 The men came quietly into the city that day. They were like fighting men who are ashamed because they've run away from a battle. 
2Samuel19:4 The king covered his face. He sobbed out loud, ""My son Absalom! Absalom, my son, my son!""" 
2Samuel19:5 Then Joab went into the king's house. He said to him, ""Today you have made all of your men feel ashamed. They have just saved your life. They have saved the lives of your sons and daughters. And they have saved the lives of your wives and concubines." 
2Samuel19:6 You love those who hate you. You hate those who love you. The commanders and their troops don't mean anything to you. You made that very clear today. I can see that you would be pleased if Absalom were alive today and all of us were dead. 
2Samuel19:7 Now go out there and cheer up your men. If you don't, you won't have any of them left with you by sunset. That will be worse for you than all of the troubles you have ever had in your whole life. That's what I promise you with an oath in the Lord's name.""" 
2Samuel19:8 So the king got up and took his seat in the entrance of the city gate. His men were told, ""The king is sitting in the entrance of the gate."" Then all of them came and stood in front of him. While all of that was going on, the Israelites had run back to their homes." 
2Samuel19:9 People from all of the tribes of Israel began to argue with one another. They were saying, ""The king saved us from the power of our enemies. He saved us from the power of the Philistines. But now he has left the country because of Absalom." 
2Samuel19:10 We anointed Absalom to rule over us. But he has died in battle. So why aren't any of you talking about bringing the king back? 
2Samuel19:11 King David sent a message to the priests Zadok and Abiathar. It said, ""Speak to the elders of Judah. Tell them I said, 'News has reached me where I'm staying. People all over Israel are talking about bringing me back to my palace. Why should you be the last to do something about it?" 
2Samuel19:12 You are my relatives. You are my own flesh and blood. So why should you be the last to bring me back?' 
2Samuel19:13 Say to Amasa, 'Aren't you my own flesh and blood? From now on you will be the commander of my army in place of Joab. If that isn't true, may God punish me greatly.' """ 
2Samuel19:14 So the hearts of all of the men of Judah were turned toward David. All of them had the same purpose in mind. They sent a message to the king. It said, ""We want you to come back. We want all of your men to come back too.""" 
2Samuel19:15 Then the king returned. He went as far as the Jordan River. The men of Judah had come to Gilgal to welcome the king back. They had come to bring him across the Jordan. 
2Samuel19:16 Shimei, the son of Gera, was among them. Shimei was from Bahurim in the territory of Benjamin. He hurried down to welcome King David back." 
2Samuel19:17 There were 1,000 people from Benjamin with him. Ziba, the manager of Saul's house, was with him too. And so were Ziba's 15 sons and 20 servants. All of them rushed down to the Jordan River. That's where the king was." 
2Samuel19:18 They went across at the place where people usually cross it. Then they brought the king's family back over with them. They were ready to do anything he wanted them to do. Shimei, the son of Gera, had also gone across the Jordan. When he did, he fell down flat with his face toward the ground in front of the king." 
2Samuel19:19 He said to him, ""You are my king and master. Please don't hold me guilty. Please forgive me for the wrong things I did on the day you left Jerusalem. Please forget all about them." 
2Samuel19:20 I know I've sinned. But today I've come down here to welcome you. I'm the first member of Joseph's whole family to do it. 
2Samuel19:21 Then Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, said, ""Shouldn't Shimei be put to death for what he did? He called down curses on you. And you are the Lord's anointed king.""" 
2Samuel19:22 But David replied, ""You and Joab are sons of Zeruiah. What do you and I have in common? Abishai, you have now become my enemy! Should anyone be put to death in Israel today? Don't I know that today I am king over Israel again?""" 
2Samuel19:23 So the king took an oath and made a promise to Shimei. He said to him, ""You aren't going to be put to death.""" 
2Samuel19:24 Mephibosheth was Saul's grandson. He had also gone down to welcome the king back. He had not taken care of his feet. He hadn't trimmed his mustache or washed his clothes. He hadn't done any of those things from the day the king left Jerusalem until the day he returned safely. 
2Samuel19:25 He came from Jerusalem to welcome the king. The king asked him, ""Mephibosheth, why didn't you go with me?""" 
2Samuel19:26 He said, ""You are my king and master. I'm disabled. So I thought, 'I'll have a saddle put on my donkey. I'll ride on it. Then I can go with the king.' But my servant Ziba turned against me." 
2Samuel19:27 He has told you lies about me. King David, you are like an angel of God. So do what pleases you." 
2Samuel19:28 You should have put all of the members of my grandfather's family to death, including me. Instead, you always provided what I needed. So what right do I have to make any more appeals to you?""" 
2Samuel19:29 The king said to him, ""You don't have to say anything else. I order you and Ziba to divide up Saul's fields between you.""" 
2Samuel19:30 Mephibosheth said to the king, ""I'm happy that you have arrived home safely. So just let Ziba have everything.""" 
2Samuel19:31 Barzillai had also come down to go across the Jordan River with the king. He wanted to send the king on his way from there. Barzillai was from Rogelim in the land of Gilead. 
2Samuel19:32 He was a very old man. He was 80 years old. He had given the king everything he needed while the king was staying in Mahanaim. That's because Barzillai was very wealthy. 
2Samuel19:33 The king said to Barzillai, ""Come across the river with me. Stay with me in Jerusalem. I'll take good care of you.""" 
2Samuel19:34 But Barzillai said to the king, ""I won't live for many more years. So why should I go up to Jerusalem with you?" 
2Samuel19:35 I'm already 80 years old. I can hardly tell the difference between what is good and what isn't. I can hardly taste what I eat and drink. I can't even hear the voices of male and female singers anymore. So why should I add my problems to yours? 
2Samuel19:36 I'll go across the Jordan River with you for a little way. Why should you reward me by taking care of me? 
2Samuel19:37 Let me go back home. Then I can die in my own town. I can be buried there in the tomb of my father and mother. But let Kimham take my place. Let him go across the river with you. Do for him what pleases you. 
2Samuel19:38 The king said, ""Kimham will go across with me. I'll do for him what pleases you. And I'll do for you anything you want me to do.""" 
2Samuel19:39 So all of the people went across the Jordan River. Then the king crossed over. The king kissed Barzillai and gave him his blessing. And Barzillai went back home. 
2Samuel19:40 After the king had gone across the river, he went to Gilgal. Kimham had gone across with him. All of the troops of Judah and half of the troops of Israel had taken the king across." 
2Samuel19:41 Soon all of the men of Israel were coming to the king. They were saying to him, ""Why did the men of Judah take you away from us? They are our relatives. What right did they have to bring you and your family across the Jordan River? What right did they have to bring all of your men over with you?""" 
2Samuel19:42 All of the men of Judah answered the men of Israel. They said, ""We did that because the king is our close relative. So why should you be angry about what happened? Have we eaten any of the king's food? Have we taken anything for ourselves?""" 
2Samuel19:43 Then the men of Israel answered the men of Judah. They said, ""We have ten of the 12 tribes in the kingdom. So we have a stronger claim on David than you have. Why then are you acting as if you hate us? Weren't we the first ones to talk about bringing back our king?"" But the men of Judah answered in an even meaner way than the men of Israel." 
2Samuel20:1 An evil man who always stirred up trouble happened to be in Gilgal. His name was Sheba, the son of Bicri. Sheba was from the tribe of Benjamin. He blew his trumpet. Then he shouted, ""We don't have any share in David's kingdom! Jesse's son is not our king! Men of Israel, every one of you go back home!""" 
2Samuel20:2 So all of the men of Israel deserted David. They followed Sheba, the son of Bicri. But the men of Judah stayed with their king. They remained with him from the Jordan River all the way to Jerusalem." 
2Samuel20:3 David returned to his palace in Jerusalem. He had left ten concubines there to take care of the palace. He put them in a house and kept them under guard. He gave them what they needed. But he didn't make love to them. They were kept under guard until the day they died. They lived as if they were widows. 
2Samuel20:4 The king said to Amasa, ""Send for the men of Judah. Tell them to come to me within three days. And be here yourself.""" 
2Samuel20:5 So Amasa went to get the men of Judah. But he took longer than the time the king had set for him. 
2Samuel20:6 David said to Abishai, ""Sheba, the son of Bicri, will do more harm to us than Absalom ever did. Take my men and go after him. If you don't, he'll find cities that have high walls around them. He'll go into one of them and escape from us.""" 
2Samuel20:7 So Joab's men marched out with the Kerethites and Pelethites. They went out with all of the mighty soldiers. All of them were under Abishai's command. They marched out from Jerusalem and went after Sheba, the son of Bicri." 
2Samuel20:8 They arrived at the great rock in Gibeon. Amasa went there to welcome them. Joab was wearing his military clothes. Over them at his waist he strapped on a belt that held a dagger. As he stepped forward, the dagger fell out." 
2Samuel20:9 Joab said to Amasa, ""How are you, my friend?"" Then Joab reached out his right hand. He took hold of Amasa's beard to kiss him." 
2Samuel20:10 Amasa didn't pay any attention to the dagger that was in Joab's left hand. Joab stuck it into his stomach. His insides spilled out on the ground. Joab didn't have to stab him again. Amasa was already dead. Then Joab and his brother Abishai went after Sheba, the son of Bicri." 
2Samuel20:11 One of Joab's men stood beside Amasa's body. He said to the other men, ""Are you pleased with Joab? Are you on David's side? Then follow Joab!""" 
2Samuel20:12 Amasa's body lay covered with his blood in the middle of the road. The man saw that all of the troops stopped there. He realized that everyone was stopping to look at Amasa's body. So he dragged it from the road into a field. Then he threw some clothes on top of it. 
2Samuel20:13 After that happened, all of the men continued on with Joab. They went after Sheba, the son of Bicri." 
2Samuel20:14 Sheba passed through all of the territory of the tribes of Israel. He arrived at the city of Abel Beth Maacah. He had gone through the entire area of the Berites. They had gathered together and followed him. 
2Samuel20:15 Joab and all of his troops came to Abel Beth Maacah. They surrounded it because Sheba was there. They built a ramp up to the city. It stood against the outer wall. They pounded the wall with huge logs to bring it down. 
2Samuel20:16 While that was going on, a wise woman called out from the city. She shouted, ""Listen! Listen! Tell Joab to come here. I want to speak to him.""" 
2Samuel20:17 So Joab went toward her. She asked, ""Are you Joab?"" ""I am,"" he answered. She said, ""Listen to what I have to say."" ""I'm listening,"" he said." 
2Samuel20:18 She continued, ""Long ago people used to say, 'Get your answer at Abel.' And that would settle the matter." 
2Samuel20:19 We are the most peaceful and faithful people in Israel. You are trying to destroy a city that is like a mother in Israel. Why do you want to swallow up what belongs to the Lord? 
2Samuel20:20 I would never do anything like that! Joab said. I would never swallow up or destroy what belongs to the Lord! 
2Samuel20:21 That isn't what I have in mind at all. There's a man named Sheba, the son of Bicri, in your city. He's from the hill country of Ephraim. He's trying to kill King David. Hand that man over to me. Then I'll pull my men back from your city."" The woman said to Joab, ""We'll throw his head down to you from the wall.""" 
2Samuel20:22 Then the woman gave her wise advice to all of the people in the city. They cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bicri. They threw it down to Joab. So he blew his trumpet. Then his men pulled back from the city. Each of them returned to his home. And Joab went back to the king in Jerusalem." 
2Samuel20:23 Joab was commander over Israel's entire army. Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was commander over the Kerethites and Pelethites." 
2Samuel20:24 Adoniram was in charge of those who were forced to work hard. Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, kept the records." 
2Samuel20:25 Sheva was the secretary. Zadok and Abiathar were priests. 
2Samuel20:26 Ira, the Jairite, was David's priest." 
2Samuel21:1 For three years in a row there wasn't enough food in the land. That was while David was king. So David asked the Lord why he wasn't showing his favor to his people. The Lord said, ""It is because Saul and his family committed murder. He put the people of Gibeon to death.""" 
2Samuel21:2 The people of Gibeon weren't a part of Israel. Instead, they were some of the Amorites who were still left alive. The people of Israel had promised with an oath to spare them. But Saul had tried to put an end to them. That's because he wanted to make Israel and Judah strong. So now King David sent for the people of Gibeon and spoke to them." 
2Samuel21:3 He asked them, ""What would you like me to do for you? How can I make up for the wrong things that were done to you? I want you to be able to pray that the Lord will once again bless his land.""" 
2Samuel21:4 The people of Gibeon answered him. They said, ""No amount of silver or gold can make up for what Saul and his family did to us. And we can't put anyone in Israel to death."" ""What do you want me to do for you?"" David asked." 
2Samuel21:5 They answered the king, ""Saul nearly destroyed us. He made plans to wipe us out. We don't have anywhere to live in Israel." 
2Samuel21:6 So let seven of the males in his family line be given to us. We'll kill them. We'll put their dead bodies out in the open in the sight of the Lord. We'll do it at Gibeah of Saul. Saul was the Lord's chosen king. So King David said, ""I'll give seven males to you.""" 
2Samuel21:7 The king spared Mephibosheth. He was the son of Jonathan and the grandson of Saul. David had taken an oath in the sight of the Lord. He had promised to be kind to Jonathan and the family line of his father Saul. 
2Samuel21:8 But the king chose Armoni and another Mephibosheth. They were the two sons of Aiah's daughter Rizpah. Saul was their father. The king also chose the five sons of Saul's daughter Merab. Adriel, the son of Barzillai, was their father. Adriel was from Meholah." 
2Samuel21:9 King David handed them over to the people of Gibeon. They killed them. They put their dead bodies out in the open on a hill in the sight of the Lord. All seven of them died together. They were put to death during the first days of the harvest. It happened just when people were beginning to harvest the barley. 
2Samuel21:10 Aiah's daughter Rizpah got some black cloth. She spread it out for herself on a rock. She stayed there from the beginning of the harvest until it rained. The rain poured down from the sky on the dead bodies of the seven males. She didn't let the birds of the air touch them by day. She didn't let the wild animals touch them at night. 
2Samuel21:11 Someone told David what Rizpah had done. She was Aiah's daughter and Saul's concubine. 
2Samuel21:12 David got the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan. He got them from the citizens of Jabesh Gilead. They had taken them in secret from the main street in Beth Shan. That's where the Philistines had hung their bodies up on the city wall. They had done it after they struck Saul down on Mount Gilboa. 
2Samuel21:13 David brought the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from Jabesh Gilead. The bones of the seven males who had been killed and put out in the open were also gathered up. 
2Samuel21:14 The bones of Saul and his son Jonathan were buried in the tomb of Saul's father Kish. The tomb was at Zela in the territory of Benjamin. Everything the king commanded was done. After that, God answered prayer and blessed the land." 
2Samuel21:15 Once again there was a battle between the Philistines and Israel. David went down with his men to fight against the Philistines. He became very tired. 
2Samuel21:16 Ishbi-Benob belonged to the family line of Rapha. The tip of his bronze spear weighed seven and a half pounds. He was also armed with a new sword. He said he would kill David. 
2Samuel21:17 But Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, came to save David. He struck the Philistine down and killed him. Then David's men took an oath and made a promise. They said to David, ""We never want you to go out with us to battle again. You are the lamp of Israel's kingdom. We want that lamp to keep on burning brightly.""" 
2Samuel21:18 There was another battle against the Philistines. It took place at Gob. At that time Sibbecai killed Saph. Sibbecai was a Hushathite. Saph was from the family line of Rapha. 
2Samuel21:19 In another battle against the Philistines at Gob, Elhanan killed Goliath's brother. Elhanan was the son of Jaare-Oregim from Bethlehem. Goliath was from the city of Gath. His spear was as big as a weaver's rod." 
2Samuel21:20 There was still another battle. It took place at Gath. A huge man lived there. He had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. So the total number of his toes and fingers was 24. He was also from the family of Rapha. 
2Samuel21:21 He made fun of Israel. So Jonathan killed him. Jonathan was the son of David's brother Shimeah. 
2Samuel21:22 Those four Philistine men lived in Gath. They were from the family line of Rapha. David and his men killed them. 
2Samuel22:1 David sang the words of this song to the Lord. He sang them when the Lord saved him from the powerful hand of all of his enemies and of Saul. 
2Samuel22:2 He said, ""The Lord is my rock and my fort. He is the One who saves me." 
2Samuel22:3 My God is my rock. I go to him for safety. He is like a shield to me. He's the power that saves me. He's my place of safety. I go to him for help. He's my Savior. He saves me from those who want to hurt me. 
2Samuel22:4 I call out to the Lord. He is worthy of praise. He saves me from my enemies. 
2Samuel22:5 The waves of death were all around me. A destroying flood swept over me. 
2Samuel22:6 The ropes of the grave were tight around me. Death set its trap in front of me. 
2Samuel22:7 When I was in trouble I called out to the Lord. I called out to my God. From his temple he heard my voice. My cry for help reached his ears. 
2Samuel22:8 The earth trembled and shook. The pillars of the heavens rocked back and forth. They trembled because the Lord was angry. 
2Samuel22:9 Smoke came out of his nose. Flames of fire came out of his mouth. Burning coals blazed out of it. 
2Samuel22:10 He opened the heavens and came down. Dark clouds were under his feet. 
2Samuel22:11 He got on the cherubim and flew. The wings of the wind lifted him up. 
2Samuel22:12 He covered himself with darkness. The dark rain clouds of the sky were like a tent around him. 
2Samuel22:13 From the brightness that was all around him flashes of lightning blazed out. 
2Samuel22:14 The Lord thundered from heaven. The voice of the Most High God was heard. 
2Samuel22:15 He shot his arrows and scattered our enemies. He sent flashes of lightning and chased the enemies away. 
2Samuel22:16 The bottom of the sea could be seen. The foundations of the earth were uncovered. It happened when the Lord's anger blazed out. It came like a blast of breath from his nose. 
2Samuel22:17 He reached down from heaven. He took hold of me. He lifted me out of deep waters. 
2Samuel22:18 He saved me from my powerful enemies. He set me free from those who were too strong for me. 
2Samuel22:19 They stood up to me when I was in trouble. But the Lord helped me. 
2Samuel22:20 He brought me out into a wide and safe place. He saved me because he was pleased with me. 
2Samuel22:21 The Lord has been good to me because I do what is right. He has rewarded me because I lead a pure life. 
2Samuel22:22 I have lived the way the Lord wanted me to. I haven't done evil by turning away from my God. 
2Samuel22:23 I keep all of his laws in mind. I haven't turned away from his commands. 
2Samuel22:24 He knows that I am without blame. He knows I've kept myself from sinning. 
2Samuel22:25 The Lord has rewarded me for doing what is right. He has rewarded me because I haven't done anything wrong. 
2Samuel22:26 Lord, to those who are faithful you show that you are faithful. To those who are without blame you show that you are without blame." 
2Samuel22:27 To those who are pure you show that you are pure. But to those whose paths are crooked you show that you are clever. 
2Samuel22:28 You save those who aren't proud. But you watch the proud to bring them down. 
2Samuel22:29 Lord, you are my lamp. You bring light into my darkness." 
2Samuel22:30 With your help I can attack a troop of soldiers. With the help of my God I can climb over a wall. 
2Samuel22:31 God's way is perfect. The word of the Lord doesn't have any flaws. He is like a shield to all who go to him for safety. 
2Samuel22:32 Who is God except the Lord? Who is the Rock except our God? 
2Samuel22:33 God gives me strength for the battle. He makes my way perfect. 
2Samuel22:34 He makes my feet like the feet of a deer. He helps me stand on the highest places. 
2Samuel22:35 He trains my hands to fight every battle. My arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
2Samuel22:36 Lord, you are like a shield that keeps me safe. You help me win the battle. You bend down to make me great." 
2Samuel22:37 You give me a wide path to walk in so that I don't twist my ankles. 
2Samuel22:38 I chased my enemies and crushed them. I didn't turn back until they were destroyed. 
2Samuel22:39 I crushed them completely so that they couldn't get up. They fell under my feet. 
2Samuel22:40 Lord, you gave me strength to fight the battle. You made my enemies bow down at my feet." 
2Samuel22:41 You made them turn their backs and run away. So I destroyed my enemies. 
2Samuel22:42 They cried out for help. But there was no one to save them. They called out to you. But you didn't answer them. 
2Samuel22:43 I beat them as fine as the dust of the earth. I pounded them and walked on them like mud in the streets. 
2Samuel22:44 You saved me when my own people attacked me. You have kept me as the ruler over nations. People I didn't know serve me now. 
2Samuel22:45 People from other lands bow down to me in fear. As soon as they hear me, they obey me." 
2Samuel22:46 All of them give up hope. They come trembling out of their hiding places. 
2Samuel22:47 The Lord lives! Give praise to my Rock! Give honor to God, the Rock! He is my Savior!" 
2Samuel22:48 He is the God who pays my enemies back. He brings the nations under my control. 
2Samuel22:49 He sets me free from my enemies. You have honored me more than them. You have saved me from men who want to hurt me. 
2Samuel22:50 Lord, I will praise you among the nations. I will sing praises to you." 
2Samuel22:51 You help me win great battles. You show your faithful love to your anointed king. You show it to me and my family forever. 
2Samuel23:1 Here are David's last words. He said, ""I am David, the son of Jesse. God has given me a message. The Most High God has greatly honored me. The God of Jacob anointed me as king. I am Israel's singer of songs." 
2Samuel23:2 The Spirit of the Lord spoke through me. I spoke his word with my tongue. 
2Samuel23:3 The God of Israel spoke. The Rock of Israel said to me, 'A king must rule over people in a way that is right. He must have respect for me when he rules." 
2Samuel23:4 Then he will be like the light of morning at sunrise when there aren't any clouds. He will be like the bright sun after rain that makes the grass grow on the earth.' 
2Samuel23:5 Isn't my royal family right with God? Hasn't he made a covenant with me that will last forever? Every part of it was well prepared and made secure. Won't he save me completely? Won't he give me everything I long for? 
2Samuel23:6 But evil people are like thorns that are thrown away. You can't pick them up with your hands. 
2Samuel23:7 Even if you touch them, you must use an iron tool or a spear. Thorns are burned up right where they are.""" 
2Samuel23:8 Here are the names of David's mighty men. Josheb-Basshebeth was chief of the Three. He was a Tahkemonite. He used his spear against 800 men. He killed all of them at one time. 
2Samuel23:9 Next to him was Eleazar. He was one of the three mighty men. He was the son of Dodai, the Ahohite. Eleazar was with David at Pas Dammim. That's where Israel's army made fun of the Philistines who were gathered there for battle. Then the men of Israel pulled back." 
2Samuel23:10 But Eleazar stayed right where he was. He struck the Philistines down until his hand grew tired. But he still held on to his sword. The Lord helped him win a great battle that day. The troops returned to Eleazar. They came back to him only to take what they wanted from the dead bodies. 
2Samuel23:11 Next to him was Shammah, the son of Agee. Shammah was a Hararite. The Philistines gathered together at a place where there was a field full of lentils. Israel's troops ran away from them." 
2Samuel23:12 But Shammah took his stand in the middle of the field. He didn't let the Philistines capture it. He struck them down. The Lord helped him win a great battle. 
2Samuel23:13 David was at the cave of Adullam. During harvest time, three of the 30 chief men came down to him there. A group of Philistines was camped in the Valley of Rephaim." 
2Samuel23:14 At that time David was in his usual place of safety. Some Philistine troops were stationed at Bethlehem. 
2Samuel23:15 David longed for water. He said, ""I wish someone would get me a drink of water from the well that is near the gate of Bethlehem.""" 
2Samuel23:16 So the three mighty men fought their way past the Philistine guards. They got some water from the well that was near the gate of Bethlehem. They took the water back to David. But David refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out as a drink offering to the Lord." 
2Samuel23:17 Lord, I would never drink that water!"" David said. ""It stands for the blood of these men. They put their lives in danger by going to Bethlehem to get it."" So David wouldn't drink it. Those were some of the brave things the three mighty men did." 
2Samuel23:18 Abishai was chief over the Three. He was the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah. He used his spear against 300 men. He killed all of them. So he became as famous as the Three were." 
2Samuel23:19 In fact, he was even more honored than the Three. He became their commander. But he wasn't included among them." 
2Samuel23:20 Benaiah was a great hero from Kabzeel. He was the son of Jehoiada. Benaiah did many brave things. He struck down two of Moab's best fighting men. He also went down into a pit on a snowy day. He killed a lion there. 
2Samuel23:21 And he struck down a huge Egyptian. The Egyptian was holding a spear. Benaiah went out to fight against him with a club. He grabbed the spear out of the Egyptian's hand. Then he killed him with it. 
2Samuel23:22 Those were some of the brave things Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, did. He too was as famous as the three mighty men were." 
2Samuel23:23 He was honored more than any of the Thirty. But he wasn't included among the Three. David put him in charge of his own personal guards. 
2Samuel23:24 Here is a list of David's men who were among the Thirty. Asahel, the brother of Joab Elhanan, the son of Dodo, from Bethlehem" 
2Samuel23:25 Shammah, the Harodite Elika, the Harodite" 
2Samuel23:26 Helez, the Paltite Ira, the son of Ikkesh, from Tekoa" 
2Samuel23:27 Abiezer from Anathoth Mebunnai, the Hushathite" 
2Samuel23:28 Zalmon, the Ahohite Maharai from Netophah" 
2Samuel23:29 Heled, the son of Baanah, from Netophah Ithai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah in Benjamin" 
2Samuel23:30 Benaiah from Pirathon Hiddai from the valleys of Gaash 
2Samuel23:31 Abi-Albon, the Arbathite Azmaveth, the Barhumite" 
2Samuel23:32 Eliahba, the Shaalbonite the sons of Jashen Jonathan," 
2Samuel23:33 the son of Shammah, the Hararite Ahiam, the son of Sharar, the Hararite" 
2Samuel23:34 Eliphelet, the son of Ahasbai, the Maacathite Eliam, the son of Ahithophel, from Giloh" 
2Samuel23:35 Hezro from Carmel Paarai, the Arbite" 
2Samuel23:36 Igal, the son of Nathan, from Zobah the son of Hagri" 
2Samuel23:37 Zelek from Ammon Naharai from Beeroth, who carried the armor of Joab, the son of Zeruiah" 
2Samuel23:38 Ira, the Ithrite Gareb, the Ithrite" 
2Samuel23:39 Uriah, the Hittite The total number of men was 37." 
2Samuel24:1 The Lord's anger burned against Israel. He stirred up David against them. He said, ""Go! Count the men of Israel and Judah.""" 
2Samuel24:2 So the king spoke to Joab and the army commanders who were with him. He said, ""Go all through the territories of the tribes of Israel. Go from Dan all the way to Beersheba. Count the fighting men. Then I'll know how many there are.""" 
2Samuel24:3 Joab replied to the king. He said, ""King David, you are my master. May the Lord your God multiply the troops 100 times. And may you live to see it. But why would you want me to count the fighting men?""" 
2Samuel24:4 In spite of what Joab said, the king's word had more authority than the word of Joab and the army commanders did. So they left the king and went out to count the fighting men of Israel." 
2Samuel24:5 They went across the Jordan River. They camped south of the town in the middle of the Arnon River valley near Aroer. Then they went through Gad and continued on to Jazer. 
2Samuel24:6 They went to Gilead and the area of Tahtim Hodshi. They continued to Dan Jaan and on around toward Sidon. 
2Samuel24:7 Then they went toward the fort of Tyre. They went to all of the towns of the Hivites and Canaanites. Finally, they went on to Beersheba. It was in the Negev Desert of Judah." 
2Samuel24:8 They finished going through the entire land. Then they came back to Jerusalem. They had been gone for nine months and 20 days. 
2Samuel24:9 Joab reported to the king how many fighting men he had counted. In Israel there were 800,000 men who were able to handle a sword. In Judah there were 500,000." 
2Samuel24:10 David felt sorry that he had counted the fighting men. So he said to the Lord, ""I committed a great sin when I counted Judah and Israel's men. Lord, I beg you to take away my guilt. I've done a very foolish thing.""" 
2Samuel24:11 Before David got up the next morning, a message from the Lord came to the prophet Gad. He was David's seer. The message said," 
2Samuel24:12 Go and tell David, 'The Lord says, ""I could punish you in three different ways. Choose one of them for me to use against you."" ' """ 
2Samuel24:13 So Gad went to David. He said to him, ""Take your choice. Do you want three years when there won't be enough food in your land? Or do you want three months when you will run away from your enemies while they chase you? Or do you want three days when there will be a plague in your land? Think it over. Then take your pick. Tell me how to answer the One who sent me.""" 
2Samuel24:14 David said to Gad, ""I'm suffering terribly. Let us fall into the hands of the Lord. His mercy is great. But don't let me fall into the hands of men.""" 
2Samuel24:15 So the Lord sent a plague on Israel. It lasted from that morning until he decided to end it. From Dan all the way to Beersheba 70,000 people died." 
2Samuel24:16 The angel reached his hand out to destroy Jerusalem. But the Lord was very sad because of the plague. So he spoke to the angel who was making the people suffer. He said, ""That is enough! Do not kill any more people."" The angel of the Lord was at Araunah's threshing floor. Araunah was from the city of Jebus." 
2Samuel24:17 David saw the angel who was striking the people down. David said to the Lord, ""I'm the one who has sinned. I'm the one who has done what is wrong. These people are like sheep. What have they done? Let your powerful hand punish me and my family.""" 
2Samuel24:18 On that day Gad went to David. Gad said to him, ""Go up to the threshing floor of Araunah, the Jebusite. Build an altar there to honor the Lord.""" 
2Samuel24:19 So David went up and did it. He did what the Lord had commanded through Gad. 
2Samuel24:20 Araunah looked and saw the king and his officials coming toward him. So he went out to welcome them. He bowed down to the king with his face toward the ground. 
2Samuel24:21 Araunah said, ""King David, you are my master. Why have you come to see me?"" ""To buy your threshing floor,"" David answered. ""I want to build an altar there to honor the Lord. When I do, the plague on the people will be stopped.""" 
2Samuel24:22 Araunah said to David, ""Take anything that pleases you. Offer it up. Here are oxen for the burnt offering. Here are threshing sleds. And here are wooden collars from the necks of the oxen. Use all of the wood to burn the offering." 
2Samuel24:23 King David, I'll give all of it to you."" Araunah continued, ""And may the Lord your God accept you.""" 
2Samuel24:24 But the king replied to Araunah, ""No. I want to pay you for it. I won't sacrifice to the Lord my God burnt offerings that haven't cost me anything."" So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen. He paid 20 ounces of silver for them." 
2Samuel24:25 David built an altar there to honor the Lord. He sacrificed burnt offerings and friendship offerings. Then the Lord answered prayer and blessed the land. The plague on Israel was stopped. 
1Kings1:1 King David was now very old. He couldn't keep warm even when blankets were spread over him. 
1Kings1:2 So his servants spoke to him. They said, ""You are our king and master. Please let us try to find a young virgin to help you. She can take care of you. She can lie down beside you. Then you can keep warm.""" 
1Kings1:3 So David's servants looked all over Israel for a beautiful young woman. They found Abishag. She was from the town of Shunem. They brought her to the king. 
1Kings1:4 The woman was very beautiful. She took care of the king and served him. But the king didn't have sex with her. 
1Kings1:5 Adonijah was the son of David and his wife Haggith. He came forward and announced, ""I'm going to be the next king."" So he got chariots and horses ready. He also got 50 men to run in front of him." 
1Kings1:6 His father had never tried to stop him from doing what he wanted to. His father had never asked him, ""Why are you acting the way you do?"" Adonijah was also very handsome. Now that Absalom was dead, Adonijah was David's oldest son." 
1Kings1:7 Adonijah talked things over with Joab, the son of Zeruiah. He also talked with the priest Abiathar. They agreed to help him." 
1Kings1:8 But the priest Zadok and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, didn't join Adonijah. The prophet Nathan didn't join him. Shimei and Rei didn't join him. And neither did David's special guard." 
1Kings1:9 Adonijah sacrificed sheep, cattle and fat calves. He sacrificed them at the Stone of Zoheleth near En Rogel. He invited all of his brothers, the king's sons, and all of the men of Judah who were royal officials." 
1Kings1:10 But he didn't invite Benaiah or the prophet Nathan. He didn't invite the special guard or his brother Solomon either. 
1Kings1:11 Nathan spoke to Solomon's mother Bathsheba. He asked, ""Haven't you heard? Adonijah, the son of Haggith, has made himself king. And King David doesn't even know about it." 
1Kings1:12 So let me tell you what to do to save your life. It will also save the life of your son Solomon. 
1Kings1:13 Go in and see King David. Say to him, 'You are my king and master. You took an oath. You promised me, ""You can be sure that your son Solomon will be king after me. He will sit on my throne."" If that's really true, why has Adonijah become king?'" 
1Kings1:14 While you are still talking to the king, I'll come in. I'll tell him that what you have said is true.""" 
1Kings1:15 So Bathsheba went to see the old king in his room. Abishag, the Shunammite, was taking care of him there." 
1Kings1:16 Bathsheba bowed low. She got down on her knees in front of the king. What do you want? the king asked. 
1Kings1:17 She said to him, ""My master, you took an oath in the name of the Lord your God. You promised me, 'Your son Solomon will be king after me. He will sit on my throne.'" 
1Kings1:18 But now Adonijah has made himself king. And you don't even know about it. 
1Kings1:19 He has sacrificed large numbers of cattle, fat calves and sheep. He has invited all of the king's sons. He has also invited the priest Abiathar and Joab, the commander of the army. But he hasn't invited your son Solomon." 
1Kings1:20 You are my king and master. All of the people of Israel are watching to see what you will do. They want to find out from you who will sit on the throne after you. 
1Kings1:21 If you don't do something, I and my son Solomon will be treated like people who have committed crimes. That will happen as soon as you join the members of your family who have already died.""" 
1Kings1:22 While she was still speaking with the king, the prophet Nathan arrived." 
1Kings1:23 The king was told, ""The prophet Nathan is here."" So Nathan went to the king. He bowed down with his face toward the ground." 
1Kings1:24 Nathan said, ""You are my king and master. Have you announced that Adonijah will be king after you? Have you said he will sit on your throne?" 
1Kings1:25 Today he has gone down outside the city. He has sacrificed large numbers of cattle, fat calves and sheep. He has invited all of the king's sons. He has also invited the commanders of the army and the priest Abiathar. Even now they are eating and drinking with him. They are saying, 'May King Adonijah live a long time!'" 
1Kings1:26 But he didn't invite me. He didn't invite the priest Zadok or Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. He didn't invite your son Solomon either." 
1Kings1:27 King David, have you allowed all of that to happen? Did you do it without letting us know about it? Why didn't you tell us who is going to sit on your throne after you?""" 
1Kings1:28 King David said, ""Tell Bathsheba to come in."" So she came and stood in front of the king." 
1Kings1:29 Then the king took an oath and made a promise. He said, ""The Lord has saved me from all of my troubles. You can be sure that he lives." 
1Kings1:30 And you can be just as sure that I will do today what I promised in the name of the Lord. He is the God of Israel. I promised you that your son Solomon would be king after me. He will sit on my throne in my place. 
1Kings1:31 Then Bathsheba bowed low with her face toward the ground. She got down on her knees in front of the king. She said, ""King David, you are my master. May you live forever!""" 
1Kings1:32 King David said, ""Tell the priest Zadok and the prophet Nathan to come in. Also tell Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, to come."" So they came to the king." 
1Kings1:33 He said to them, ""Take my officials with you. Put my son Solomon on my own mule. Take him down to the Gihon spring." 
1Kings1:34 Have the priest Zadok and the prophet Nathan anoint him as king over Israel there. Blow a trumpet. Shout, 'May King Solomon live a long time!'" 
1Kings1:35 Then come back up to the city with him. Have him sit on my throne. He will rule in my place. I've appointed him ruler over Israel and Judah. 
1Kings1:36 Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, answered the king. ""Amen!"" he said. ""May the Lord your God make it come true." 
1Kings1:37 You are my king and master. The Lord has been with you. May he also be with Solomon. King David, may the Lord make Solomon's kingdom even greater than yours!""" 
1Kings1:38 So the priest Zadok and the prophet Nathan left the palace. Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, went with them. So did the Kerethites and Pelethites. They put Solomon on King David's mule. And they brought him down to the Gihon spring." 
1Kings1:39 The priest Zadok had gotten an animal horn that was filled with olive oil. He had taken it from the sacred tent. He anointed Solomon with the oil. The trumpet was blown. All of the people shouted, ""May King Solomon live a long time!""" 
1Kings1:40 Then they went up toward the city. Solomon was leading the way. The people were playing flutes. They were filled with great joy. The ground shook because of all of the noise. 
1Kings1:41 Adonijah and all of his guests heard it. They were just finishing their meal. Joab heard the sound of the trumpet. So he asked, ""What does all of that noise in the city mean?""" 
1Kings1:42 While Joab was still speaking, Jonathan arrived. Jonathan was the son of the priest Abiathar. Adonijah said, ""Come in. I have respect for you. You must be bringing good news.""" 
1Kings1:43 No! I'm not! Jonathan answered. Our master King David has made Solomon king. 
1Kings1:44 David sent the priest Zadok and the prophet Nathan along with Solomon. He also sent Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, with him. He sent the Kerethites and Pelethites with him too. They put him on the king's mule." 
1Kings1:45 They took him down to the Gihon spring. There the priest Zadok and the prophet Nathan anointed him as king. Now they've gone back up to the city. They were cheering all the way. The city is filled with the sound of it. That's the noise you hear. 
1Kings1:46 And that's not all. Solomon has taken his seat on the royal throne. 
1Kings1:47 The royal officials came to give their blessing to our master King David. They said, 'May your God make Solomon's name more famous than yours! May he make Solomon's kingdom greater than yours!' ""While King David was sitting on his bed, he bowed in worship." 
1Kings1:48 He said, 'I praise the Lord. He is the God of Israel. He has let me live to see my son sitting on my throne today as the next king.' """ 
1Kings1:49 When all of Adonijah's guests heard that, they were terrified. So they got up and scattered." 
1Kings1:50 Adonijah was afraid of what Solomon might do to him. So he went and grabbed hold of the horns that stuck out from the upper corners of the altar for burnt offerings. 
1Kings1:51 Then Solomon was told, ""King Solomon, Adonijah is afraid of you. He's holding onto the horns of the altar. He says, 'I want King Solomon to take an oath today. I want him to promise that he won't kill me with his sword.' """ 
1Kings1:52 Solomon replied, ""Let him show that he's a man people can respect. Then not even one hair on his head will fall to the ground. But if I find out he's done something evil, he will die.""" 
1Kings1:53 King Solomon got some men to bring Adonijah down from the altar. He came and bowed down to King Solomon. Solomon said, ""Go on home.""" 
1Kings2:1 The time came near for David to die. So he gave orders to his son Solomon. He said," 
1Kings2:2 I'm about to die, just as everyone else on earth does. So be strong. Show how brave you are." 
1Kings2:3 Do everything the Lord your God requires. Live the way he wants you to. Obey his orders and commands. Keep his laws and rules. Do everything that is written in the Law of Moses. Then you will have success in everything you do. You will succeed everywhere you go. 
1Kings2:4 The Lord will keep the promise he made to me. He said, 'Your sons must be careful about how they live. They must be faithful to me with all their heart and soul. Then you will always have a man sitting on the throne of Israel.'" 
1Kings2:5 You yourself know what Joab, the son of Zeruiah, did to me. You know that he killed Abner, the son of Ner, and Amasa, the son of Jether. They were the two commanders of Israel's armies. He killed them in a time of peace. It wasn't a time of war. Joab spilled the blood of Abner and Amasa. It stained the belt that was around his waist. It also stained the sandals on his feet." 
1Kings2:6 You are wise. So I leave him in your hands. Just don't let him live to become an old man. Don't let him die peacefully. 
1Kings2:7 But be kind to the sons of Barzillai from Gilead. Provide what they need. They were faithful to me when I had to run away from your brother Absalom. 
1Kings2:8 Don't forget Shimei, the son of Gera. He's still around. He's from Bahurim in the territory of Benjamin. He called down bitter curses on me. He did it on the day I went to Mahanaim. Later, he came down to welcome me at the Jordan River. At that time I took an oath in the name of the Lord. I promised Shimei, 'I won't put you to death with my sword.'" 
1Kings2:9 But now I want you to think of him as guilty. You are wise. You will know what to do to him. Don't let him live to become an old man. Put him to death. 
1Kings2:10 David joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the City of David. 
1Kings2:11 He had ruled over Israel for 40 years. He ruled for seven years in Hebron. Then he ruled for 33 years in Jerusalem. 
1Kings2:12 So Solomon sat on the throne of his father David. His position as king was made secure. 
1Kings2:13 Adonijah was the son of David's wife Haggith. He went to Bathsheba. She was Solomon's mother. She asked Adonijah, ""Have you come in peace?"" He answered, ""Yes. I've come in peace.""" 
1Kings2:14 He continued, ""I want to ask you something."" ""Go ahead,"" she replied." 
1Kings2:15 He said, ""As you know, the kingdom belonged to me. The whole nation of Israel thought of me as their king. But now things have changed. The kingdom belongs to my brother. The Lord has given it to him." 
1Kings2:16 But I have a favor to ask of you. Don't say no to me. Go ahead,"" she said." 
1Kings2:17 So he continued, ""Please ask King Solomon for a favor. He won't say no to you. Ask him to give me Abishag from Shunem to be my wife.""" 
1Kings2:18 All right,"" Bathsheba replied. ""I'll speak to the king for you.""" 
1Kings2:19 So Bathsheba went to King Solomon. She went to him to speak for Adonijah. The king stood up to greet her. He bowed down to her. Then he sat down on his throne. He had a throne brought for his mother. She sat down at his right side. 
1Kings2:20 I have one small favor to ask of you,"" she said. ""Don't say no to me."" The king replied, ""Mother, go ahead and ask. I won't say no to you.""" 
1Kings2:21 She said, ""Let your brother Adonijah get married to Abishag, the Shunammite.""" 
1Kings2:22 King Solomon answered his mother, ""Why are you asking for Abishag, the Shunammite, for Adonijah? You might as well ask me to give him the whole kingdom! After all, he's my older brother. And he doesn't want the kingdom only for himself. He also wants it for the priest Abiathar and for Joab, the son of Zeruiah.""" 
1Kings2:23 Then King Solomon took an oath and made a promise in the name of the Lord. He said, ""Adonijah will pay with his life because of what he has asked for. If he doesn't, may God punish me greatly." 
1Kings2:24 The Lord has made my position as king secure. I'm sitting on the throne of my father David. The Lord has built a royal house for me, just as he promised. You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that Adonijah will be put to death today.""" 
1Kings2:25 So King Solomon gave the order to Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. Benaiah struck Adonijah down. And Adonijah died." 
1Kings2:26 The king spoke to the priest Abiathar. He said, ""Go back to your fields in Anathoth. You should really be put to death. But I won't have it done now. That's because you carried the ark of the Lord and King. You did it for my father David. You shared all of his hard times.""" 
1Kings2:27 So Solomon wouldn't let Abiathar serve as a priest of the Lord anymore. That's how the message the Lord had spoken at Shiloh came true. He had spoken it about the family of Eli. 
1Kings2:28 News of what Solomon had done reached Joab. Joab had never made evil plans along with Absalom. But he had joined Adonijah. So he ran to the tent of the Lord. He took hold of the horns that stuck out from the upper corners of the altar for burnt offerings. 
1Kings2:29 King Solomon was told that Joab had run to the tent. He was also told that Joab was by the altar. Then Solomon gave the order to Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. He told him, ""Go! Strike him down!""" 
1Kings2:30 So Benaiah entered the tent of the Lord. He said to Joab, ""The king says, 'Come on out!' "" But Joab answered, ""No. I'd rather die here."" Benaiah told the king what Joab had said to him." 
1Kings2:31 Then the king commanded Benaiah, ""Do what he says. Strike him down. Bury his body. Then I and my family won't be held accountable for the blood Joab spilled. He killed people who weren't guilty of doing anything wrong." 
1Kings2:32 The Lord will pay him back for the blood he spilled. Joab attacked two men. He killed them with his sword. And my father David didn't even know anything about it. Joab killed Abner, the son of Ner. Abner was the commander of Israel's army. Joab also killed Amasa, the son of Jether. Amasa was the commander of Judah's army. Abner and Amasa were better men than Joab is. They were more honest than he is." 
1Kings2:33 May Joab and his children after him be held forever accountable for spilling the blood of Abner and Amasa. But may David and his children after him enjoy the Lord's peace and rest forever. May the Lord also give his peace to David's royal house and kingdom forever. 
1Kings2:34 So Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, went up to the Lord's tent. There he struck Joab down. And he killed him. Joab's body was buried on his own land in the desert." 
1Kings2:35 The king put Benaiah in charge of the army. Benaiah took Joab's place. The king also put the priest Zadok in Abiathar's place. 
1Kings2:36 Then the king sent for Shimei. He said to him, ""Build yourself a house in Jerusalem. Live there. Don't go anywhere else." 
1Kings2:37 You must not leave the city and go across the Kidron Valley. If you do, you can be sure you will die. And it will be your own fault.""" 
1Kings2:38 Shimei replied to the king, ""You are my king and master. What you say is good. I'll do it."" Shimei stayed in Jerusalem for a long time." 
1Kings2:39 Three years after Solomon had talked with Shimei, two of Shimei's slaves ran off. They went to Achish, the king of Gath. He was the son of Maacah. Shimei was told, ""Your slaves are in Gath.""" 
1Kings2:40 When Shimei heard that, he put a saddle on his donkey. Then he went to Achish at Gath to look for his slaves. Shimei found them and brought them back from Gath." 
1Kings2:41 Solomon was told that Shimei had left Jerusalem. He was told he had gone to Gath and had returned. 
1Kings2:42 So the king sent for Shimei. He said to him, ""Didn't I make you take an oath in the name of the Lord? Didn't I warn you? I said, 'You must not leave the city and go somewhere else. If you do, you can be sure you will die.' At that time you said to me, 'What you say is good. I'll obey your command.'" 
1Kings2:43 So why didn't you keep your oath to the Lord? Why didn't you obey the command I gave you? 
1Kings2:44 The king continued, ""You know all of the wrong things you did to my father David. In your heart you know them. Now the Lord will pay you back for what you did." 
1Kings2:45 But I will be blessed. The Lord will make David's kingdom secure forever. 
1Kings2:46 Then the king gave the order to Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. Benaiah left the palace and struck Shimei down. And he killed him. So the kingdom was now made secure in Solomon's hands." 
1Kings3:1 Solomon and Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, agreed to help each other. So Solomon got married to Pharaoh's daughter. He brought her to the City of David. She stayed there until he finished building his palace, the Lord's temple, and the wall that was around Jerusalem." 
1Kings3:2 But the people continued to offer sacrifices at the high places where they worshiped. That's because a temple hadn't been built yet where the Lord would put his Name. 
1Kings3:3 Solomon showed his love for the Lord. He did it by obeying the laws his father David had taught him. But Solomon offered sacrifices at the high places. He also burned incense there. 
1Kings3:4 King Solomon went to the city of Gibeon to offer sacrifices. That's where the most important high place was. He offered 1,000 burnt offerings on the altar that was there." 
1Kings3:5 The Lord appeared to Solomon at Gibeon. He spoke to him in a dream during the night. God said, ""Ask for anything you want me to give you.""" 
1Kings3:6 Solomon answered, ""You have been very kind to my father David, your servant. That's because he was faithful to you. He did what was right. His heart was honest. And you have continued to be very kind to him. You have given him a son to sit on his throne this very day." 
1Kings3:7 Lord my God, you have now made me king. You have put me in the place of my father David. But I'm only a little child. I don't know how to carry out my duties." 
1Kings3:8 I'm here among the people you have chosen. They are a great nation. They are more than anyone can count. 
1Kings3:9 So give me a heart that understands. Then I can rule over your people. I can tell the difference between what is right and what is wrong. Who can possibly rule over this great nation of yours? 
1Kings3:10 The Lord was pleased that Solomon had asked for that. 
1Kings3:11 So God said to him, ""You have not asked to live for a long time. You have not asked to be wealthy. You have not even asked to have your enemies killed. Instead, you have asked for understanding. You want to do what is right and fair when you judge people. Because that is what you have asked for," 
1Kings3:12 I will give it to you. I will give you a wise and understanding heart. So here is what will be true of you. There has never been anyone like you. And there never will be. 
1Kings3:13 And that is not all. I will give you what you have not asked for. I will give you riches and honor. As long as you live, no other king will be as great as you are." 
1Kings3:14 Live the way I want you to. Obey my laws and commands, just as your father David did. Then I will let you live for a long time.""" 
1Kings3:15 Solomon woke up. He realized he had been dreaming. He returned to Jerusalem. He stood in front of the ark of the Lord's covenant. He sacrificed burnt offerings and friendship offerings. Then he gave a big dinner for all of his officials. 
1Kings3:16 Two prostitutes came to the king. They stood in front of him. 
1Kings3:17 One of them said, ""My master, this woman and I live in the same house. I had a baby while she was there with me." 
1Kings3:18 Three days after my child was born, this woman also had a baby. We were alone. There wasn't anyone in the house but the two of us." 
1Kings3:19 During the night this woman's baby died. It happened because she was lying on top of him. 
1Kings3:20 So she got up in the middle of the night. She took my son from my side while I was asleep. She put him by her breast. Then she put her dead son by my breast. 
1Kings3:21 The next morning, I got up to nurse my son. But he was dead! I looked at him closely in the morning light. And I saw that it wasn't my baby.""" 
1Kings3:22 The other woman said, ""No! The living baby is my son. The dead one belongs to you."" But the first woman said, ""No! The dead baby is yours. The living one belongs to me."" So they argued in front of the king." 
1Kings3:23 The king said, ""One of you says, 'My son is alive. Your son is dead.' The other one says, 'No! Your son is dead. Mine is alive.' """ 
1Kings3:24 He continued, ""Bring me a sword."" So a sword was brought to him." 
1Kings3:25 Then he gave an order. He said, ""Cut the living child in two. Give half to one woman and half to the other.""" 
1Kings3:26 The woman whose son was alive was filled with deep concern for her son. She said to the king, ""My master, please give her the living baby! Don't kill him!"" But the other woman said, ""Neither one of us will have him. Cut him in two!""" 
1Kings3:27 Then the king made his decision. He said, ""Give the living baby to the first woman. Don't kill him. She's his mother.""" 
1Kings3:28 All of the people of Israel heard about the decision the king had given. That gave them great respect for him. They saw that God had given him wisdom. They knew that Solomon would do what was right and fair when he judged people. 
1Kings4:1 So King Solomon ruled over the whole nation of Israel. 
1Kings4:2 Here are the names of his chief officials. Azariah was the priest. He was the son of Zadok. 
1Kings4:3 Elihoreph and Ahijah were secretaries. They were the sons of Shisha. Jehoshaphat kept the records. He was the son of Ahilud. 
1Kings4:4 Benaiah was the commander in chief. He was the son of Jehoiada. Zadok and Abiathar were priests. 
1Kings4:5 Azariah was in charge of the local officials. He was the son of Nathan. Zabud was a priest. He was the king's personal adviser. He was the son of Nathan. 
1Kings4:6 Ahishar was in charge of the palace. Adoniram was in charge of those who were forced to work for the king. He was the son of Abda. 
1Kings4:7 Solomon also had 12 local governors over the whole land of Israel. They provided supplies for the king and the royal family. Each governor had to provide supplies for one month out of each year. 
1Kings4:8 Here are their names and areas. Ben-Hur's area was the hill country of Ephraim. 
1Kings4:9 Ben-Deker's area was Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth Shemesh and Elon Bethhanan." 
1Kings4:10 Ben-Hesed's area was Arubboth. Socoh and the whole land of Hepher were included in his area. 
1Kings4:11 Ben-Abinadab's area was Naphoth Dor. He got married to Solomon's daughter Taphath. 
1Kings4:12 Baana's area was Taanach, Megiddo and the whole territory of Beth Shan. Beth Shan was next to Zarethan below Jezreel. Baana's area reached from Beth Shan all the way to Abel Meholah. It also went across to Jokmeam. Baana was the son of Ahilud." 
1Kings4:13 Ben-Geber's area was Ramoth Gilead. The settlements of Jair, the son of Manasseh, were included in his area in Gilead. The area of Argob in Bashan was also included. That area had 60 large cities that had high walls around them. The city gates were made secure with heavy bronze bars." 
1Kings4:14 Ahinadab's area was Mahanaim. He was the son of Iddo. 
1Kings4:15 Ahimaaz's area was Naphtali. He had gotten married to Basemath. She was Solomon's daughter. 
1Kings4:16 Baana's area was Asher and Aloth. He was the son of Hushai. 
1Kings4:17 Jehoshaphat's area was Issachar. He was the son of Paruah. 
1Kings4:18 Shimei's area was Benjamin. He was the son of Ela. 
1Kings4:19 Geber's area was Gilead. He was the only governor over the area. He was the son of Uri. Gilead had been the country of Sihon and Og. Sihon had been king of the Amorites. Og had been king of Bashan. 
1Kings4:20 There were many people in Judah and Israel. In fact, they were as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. They ate, drank and were happy." 
1Kings4:21 Solomon ruled over all of the kingdoms from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines. He ruled as far as the border of Egypt. All of those countries brought the gifts he required them to bring him. And Solomon ruled over those countries for his whole life. 
1Kings4:22 Here are the supplies Solomon required every day. 185 bushels of fine flour 375 bushels of meal 
1Kings4:23 ten head of cattle that had been fed by hand 20 head of cattle that had been fed on grasslands 100 sheep and goats deer, antelopes and roebucks the finest birds" 
1Kings4:24 Solomon ruled over all of the kingdoms that were west of the Euphrates River. He ruled from Tiphsah all the way to Gaza. And he had peace and rest on every side. 
1Kings4:25 While Solomon was king, Judah and Israel lived in safety. They were secure from Dan all the way to Beersheba. Each man had his own vine and fig tree." 
1Kings4:26 Solomon had 4,000 spaces where he kept his chariot horses. He had a total of 12,000 horses." 
1Kings4:27 The local officials provided supplies for King Solomon. They provided them for all who ate at the king's table. Each official provided supplies for one month every year. The officials made sure the king had everything he needed. 
1Kings4:28 They also brought barley and straw for the chariot horses and the other horses. Each of them brought the amounts that were required of them. They brought them to the proper places. 
1Kings4:29 God made Solomon very wise. His understanding couldn't even be measured. It was like the sand on the seashore. People can't measure that either. 
1Kings4:30 Solomon's wisdom was greater than the wisdom of all of the people of the east. It was greater than all of the wisdom of Egypt. 
1Kings4:31 Solomon was wiser than any other man. He was wiser than Ethan, the Ezrahite. He was wiser than Heman, Calcol and Darda. They were the sons of Mahol. Solomon became famous in all of the nations that were around him." 
1Kings4:31 Solomon was wiser than any other man. He was wiser than Ethan, the Ezrahite. He was wiser than Heman, Calcol and Darda. They were the sons of Mahol. Solomon became famous in all of the nations that were around him." 
1Kings4:32 He spoke 3,000 proverbs. He wrote 1,005 songs." 
1Kings4:33 He explained all about plants. He knew everything about them, from the cedar trees in Lebanon to the hyssop plants that grow out of walls. He taught about animals and birds. He also taught about reptiles and fish." 
1Kings4:34 The kings of all of the world's nations heard about how wise Solomon was. So they sent their people to listen to him. 
1Kings5:1 Hiram was the king of Tyre. He heard that Solomon had been anointed as king. He heard that Solomon had become the next king after his father David. Hiram had always been David's friend. So Hiram sent his messengers to Solomon. 
1Kings5:2 Then Solomon sent a message back to Hiram. It said," 
1Kings5:3 As you know, my father David had to fight many battles. His enemies attacked him from every side. So he couldn't build a temple where the Lord his God would put his Name. That wouldn't be possible until the Lord had put his enemies under his control." 
1Kings5:4 But now the Lord my God has given me peace and rest on every side. We don't have any enemies. And we don't have any other major problems either. 
1Kings5:5 So I'm planning to build a temple. I want to build it for the Name of the Lord my God. That's what he told my father David he wanted me to do. He said, 'I will put your son on the throne in your place. He will build a temple. I will put my Name there.'" 
1Kings5:6 So give your men orders to cut down cedar trees in Lebanon for me. My men will work with yours. I'll pay you for your men's work. I'll pay any amount you decide on. As you know, we don't have anyone who is as skilled in cutting down trees as the men of Sidon are.""" 
1Kings5:7 When Hiram heard Solomon's message, he was very pleased. He said, ""May the Lord be praised today. He has given David a wise son to rule over that great nation.""" 
1Kings5:8 So Hiram sent a message to Solomon. It said, ""I have received the message you sent me. I'll do everything you want me to. I'll provide the cedar and pine logs." 
1Kings5:9 My men will bring them from Lebanon down to the Mediterranean Sea. I'll make them into rafts. I'll float them to the place you want me to. When the rafts arrive, I'll separate the logs from each other. Then you can take them away. ""And here's what I want in return. Provide food for all of the people in my palace.""" 
1Kings5:10 So Hiram supplied Solomon with all of the cedar and pine logs he wanted. 
1Kings5:11 Solomon gave Hiram 125,000 bushels of wheat as food for the people in his palace. He also gave him 115,000 gallons of oil that was made from pressed olives. He did that for Hiram year after year." 
1Kings5:12 The Lord made Solomon wise, just as he had promised him. There was peace between Hiram and Solomon. The two of them made a peace treaty." 
1Kings5:13 King Solomon forced men from all over Israel to work hard for him. There were 30,000 of them." 
1Kings5:14 He sent them off to Lebanon in groups of 10,000 each month. They spent one month in Lebanon. Then they spent two months at home. Adoniram was in charge of the people who were forced to work." 
1Kings5:15 Solomon had 70,000 people who carried things. He had 80,000 who cut stones in the hills." 
1Kings5:16 He had 3,300 men who were in charge of the project. They also directed the workers." 
1Kings5:17 The people did what the king commanded. They removed large blocks of fine stone from a rock pit. They used them to provide a foundation for the temple. 
1Kings5:18 The skilled workers of Solomon and Hiram cut and prepared the logs and stones. They would later be used in building the temple. The people of Byblos helped the workers. 
1Kings6:1 Solomon began to build the temple of the Lord. It was 480 years after the people of Israel had come out of Egypt. It was in the fourth year of Solomon's rule over Israel. He started in the second month. That was the month of Ziv. 
1Kings6:2 The temple King Solomon built for the Lord was 90 feet long. It was 30 feet wide. And it was 45 feet high. 
1Kings6:3 The temple had a porch in front of the main hall. The porch was as wide as the temple itself. It was 30 feet wide. It came out 15 feet from the front of the temple. 
1Kings6:4 Solomon made narrow windows high up in the temple walls. 
1Kings6:5 He built side rooms around the temple. They were built against the walls of the main hall and the Most Holy Room. 
1Kings6:6 On the first floor the side rooms were seven and a half feet wide. On the second floor they were nine feet wide. And on the third floor they were ten and a half feet wide. Solomon made the walls of the temple thinner as they went up floor by floor. The result was ledges along the walls. So the floor beams of the side rooms rested on the ledges. The beams didn't go into the temple walls. 
1Kings6:7 All of the stones that were used for building the temple were shaped where they were cut. So hammers, chisels and other iron tools couldn't be heard where the temple was being built." 
1Kings6:8 The entrance to the first floor was on the south side of the temple. A stairway led up to the second floor. From there it went on up to the third floor. 
1Kings6:9 So Solomon built the temple and finished it. He made its roof out of beams and cedar boards. 
1Kings6:10 He built side rooms all along the temple. Each room was seven and a half feet high. They were joined to the temple by cedar beams. 
1Kings6:11 A message came to Solomon from the Lord. The Lord said," 
1Kings6:12 You are now building this temple. Follow my orders. Keep my rules. Obey all of my commands. Then I will make the promise I gave your father David come true. I will do it through you. 
1Kings6:13 I will live among my people Israel. I will not desert them. 
1Kings6:14 So Solomon built the temple and finished it. 
1Kings6:15 He put cedar boards on its inside walls. He covered them from floor to ceiling. He covered the temple floor with pine boards. 
1Kings6:16 He put up a wall 30 feet from the back of the temple. He made it with cedar boards from floor to ceiling. That formed a room inside the temple. It was the Most Holy Room. 
1Kings6:17 The main hall in front of the room was 60 feet long. 
1Kings6:18 The inside of the temple was covered with cedar wood. Gourds and open flowers were carved on the wood. Everything was cedar. There wasn't any stone showing anywhere. 
1Kings6:19 Solomon prepared the Most Holy Room inside the temple. That's where the ark of the covenant of the Lord would be placed. 
1Kings6:20 The Most Holy Room was 30 feet long. It was 30 feet wide. And it was 30 feet high. Solomon covered the inside of it with pure gold. He prepared the cedar altar for burning incense. He covered it with gold. 
1Kings6:21 Solomon covered the inside of the main hall with pure gold. He placed gold chains across the front of the Most Holy Room. That room was covered with gold. 
1Kings6:22 So Solomon covered the inside of the whole temple with gold. He also covered the altar for burning incense with gold. It was right in front of the Most Holy Room. 
1Kings6:23 For the Most Holy Room Solomon made a pair of cherubim. He made them out of olive wood. Each cherub was 15 feet high. 
1Kings6:24 One wing of the first cherub was seven and a half feet long. The other wing was also seven and a half feet long. So the wings measured 15 feet from tip to tip. 
1Kings6:25 The second cherub's wings also measured 15 feet from tip to tip. The two cherubim had the same size and shape. 
1Kings6:26 Each cherub was 15 feet high. 
1Kings6:27 Solomon placed the cherubim inside the Most Holy Room in the temple. Their wings were spread out. The wing tip of one cherub touched one wall. The wing tip of the other touched the other wall. The tips of their wings touched each other in the middle of the room. 
1Kings6:28 Solomon covered the cherubim with gold. 
1Kings6:29 On the walls that were all around the temple he carved cherubim, palm trees and open flowers. He carved them on the walls of the Most Holy Room and the main hall." 
1Kings6:30 He also covered the floors of those two rooms with gold. 
1Kings6:31 For the entrance to the Most Holy Room he made two doors out of olive wood. Each doorpost had five sides. 
1Kings6:32 On the two olive wood doors he carved cherubim, palm trees and open flowers. He covered the cherubim and palm trees with hammered gold." 
1Kings6:33 In the same way he made olive wood doorposts for the entrance to the main hall. Each doorpost had four sides. 
1Kings6:34 He also made two pine doors. Each door had two parts. They turned in bases that were shaped like cups. 
1Kings6:35 He carved cherubim, palm trees and open flowers on the doors. He covered the doors with gold. He hammered the gold evenly over the carvings." 
1Kings6:36 He used blocks of stone to build a wall around the inside courtyard. The first three layers of the wall were made out of stone. The top layer was made out of beautiful cedar wood. 
1Kings6:37 The foundation of the Lord's temple was laid in Solomon's fourth year. It was in the month of Ziv. 
1Kings6:38 The temple was finished in his 11th year. It was in the month of Bul. That was the eighth month. Everything was finished just as the plans required. Solomon had spent seven years building the temple. 
1Kings7:1 But it took Solomon 13 years to finish constructing his palace and the other buildings that were related to it. 
1Kings7:2 He built the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. It was 150 feet long. It was 75 feet wide. And it was 45 feet high. It had four rows of cedar columns. They held up beautiful cedar beams. 
1Kings7:3 Above the beams was a roof that was made out of cedar boards. It rested on the columns. There were three rows of beams with 15 in each row. The total number of beams was 45. 
1Kings7:4 The windows of the palace were placed high up in the walls. They were in groups of three. And they faced each other. 
1Kings7:5 All of the doorways had frames that were shaped like rectangles. They were in front. They were in groups of three. And they faced each other. 
1Kings7:6 Solomon made a covered area. It was 75 feet long. And it was 45 feet wide. Its roof was held up by columns. In front of it was a porch. In front of that were pillars and a roof that went out beyond them. 
1Kings7:7 Solomon built the throne hall. It was called the Hall of Justice. That's where he would serve as judge. He covered the hall with cedar boards from floor to ceiling. 
1Kings7:8 The palace where he would live was set farther back. Its plan was something like the plan for the hall. Solomon had gotten married to Pharaoh's daughter. He made a palace for her. It was like the hall. 
1Kings7:9 All of those buildings were made out of blocks of very fine stone. They were cut to the right size. They were shaped with a saw on the back and front sides. Those stones were used for the outside of each building and for the large courtyard. They were also used from the foundations up to the roofs. 
1Kings7:10 Large blocks of very fine stone were used for the foundations. Some were 15 feet long. Others were 12 feet long. 
1Kings7:11 The walls that were above them were made out of very fine stones. The stones were cut to the right size. On top of them was a layer of cedar beams. 
1Kings7:12 The large courtyard had a wall around it. The first three layers of the wall were made out of blocks of stone. The top layer was made out of beautiful cedar wood. The same thing was done with the inside courtyard of the Lord's temple and its porch. 
1Kings7:13 King Solomon sent messengers to Tyre. He wanted them to bring Huram back with them. 
1Kings7:14 Huram's mother was a widow. She was from the tribe of Naphtali. Huram's father was from Tyre. He was skilled in working with bronze. Huram also was very skilled. He had done all kinds of work with bronze. He came to King Solomon and did all of the work he was asked to do. 
1Kings7:15 Huram made two bronze pillars. Each of them was 27 feet high. And each was 18 feet around. 
1Kings7:16 Each pillar had a decorated top that was made out of bronze. Each top was seven and a half feet high. 
1Kings7:17 Chains that were linked together hung down from the tops of the pillars. There were seven chains for each top. 
1Kings7:18 Huram made two rows of pomegranates. They circled the chains. The pomegranates decorated the tops of the pillars. Huram did the same thing for each pillar. 
1Kings7:19 The tops on the pillars of the porch were shaped like lilies. The lilies were 6 feet high. 
1Kings7:20 On the tops of both pillars were 200 pomegranates. They were in rows all around the tops. They were above the part that was shaped like a bowl. And they were next to the chains. 
1Kings7:21 Huram set the pillars up at the temple porch. The pillar on the south he named Jakin. The one on the north he named Boaz. 
1Kings7:22 The tops of the pillars were shaped like lilies. So the work on the pillars was finished. 
1Kings7:23 Huram made a huge metal bowl for washing. Its shape was round. It measured 15 feet from rim to rim. It was seven and a half feet high. And it was 45 feet around. 
1Kings7:24 Below the rim there was a circle of gourds around the bowl. In every 18 inches around the bowl there were ten gourds. The gourds were arranged in two rows. They were made as part of the bowl itself. 
1Kings7:25 The huge bowl stood on 12 bulls. Three of them faced north. Three faced west. Three faced south. And three faced east. The bowl rested on top of them. Their rear ends were toward the center. 
1Kings7:26 The bowl was three inches thick. Its rim was like the rim of a cup. The rim was shaped like the bloom of a lily. The bowl held 11,500 gallons of water." 
1Kings7:27 Huram also made ten stands out of bronze. They could be moved around. Each stand was six feet long. It was six feet wide. And it was four and a half feet high. 
1Kings7:28 Here is how the stands were made. They had sides that were joined to posts. 
1Kings7:29 On the sides between the posts were lions, bulls and cherubim. They were also on all of the posts. Above and below the lions and bulls were wreaths that were made out of hammered metal." 
1Kings7:30 Each stand had four bronze wheels with bronze axles. Each one had a bowl that rested on four supports. They had wreaths on each side. 
1Kings7:31 There was a round opening on the inside of each stand. The opening had a frame that was 18 inches deep. The sides were 27 inches high from the top of the opening to the bottom of the base. There was carving around the opening. The sides of the stands were square, not round." 
1Kings7:32 The four wheels were under the sides. The axles of the wheels were connected to the stand. Each wheel was 27 inches across. 
1Kings7:33 The wheels were made like chariot wheels. All of the axles, rims, spokes and hubs were made out of metal." 
1Kings7:34 Each stand had four handles on it. There was one on each corner. They came out from the stand. 
1Kings7:35 At the top of the stand there was a round band. It was nine inches deep. The sides and supports were connected to the top of the stand. 
1Kings7:36 Huram carved cherubim, lions and palm trees on the sides of the stands. He also carved them on the surfaces of the supports. His carving covered every open space. He had also carved wreaths all around." 
1Kings7:37 That's how he made the ten stands. All of them were made in the same molds. And they had the same size and shape. 
1Kings7:38 Then Huram made ten bronze bowls. Each one held 230 gallons. The bowls measured six feet across. There was one bowl for each of the ten stands. 
1Kings7:39 He placed five of the stands on the south side of the temple. He placed the other five on the north side. He put the huge bowl on the south side. It was at the southeast corner of the temple. 
1Kings7:40 He also made the bowls, shovels and sprinkling bowls. So Huram finished all of the work he had started for King Solomon. Here's what he made for the Lord's temple." 
1Kings7:41 He made the two pillars. He made the two tops for the pillars. The tops were shaped like bowls. He made the two sets of chains that were linked together. They decorated the two bowl-shaped tops of the pillars. 
1Kings7:42 He made the 400 pomegranates for the two sets of chains. There were two rows of pomegranates for each chain. They decorated the bowl-shaped tops of the pillars. 
1Kings7:43 He made the ten stands with their ten bowls. 
1Kings7:44 He made the huge bowl. He made the 12 bulls that were under it. 
1Kings7:45 He made the pots, shovels and sprinkling bowls. Huram made all of those objects for King Solomon for the Lord's temple. He made them out of bronze. Then he shined them up." 
1Kings7:46 The king had made them in clay molds. It was done on the flatlands of the Jordan River between Succoth and Zarethan. 
1Kings7:47 Solomon didn't weigh any of those things. There were too many of them to weigh. No one even tried to weigh the bronze they were made out of. 
1Kings7:48 Solomon also made all of the articles that were in the Lord's temple. He made the golden altar. He made the golden table for the holy bread. 
1Kings7:49 He made the pure gold lampstands. There were five on the right and five on the left. They were in front of the Most Holy Room. He made the gold flowers. He made the gold lamps and tongs. 
1Kings7:50 He made the bowls, wick cutters, sprinkling bowls, dishes, and shallow cups for burning incense. All of them were made out of pure gold. He made the gold bases for the doors of the inside room. That's the Most Holy Room. He also made gold bases for the doors of the main hall of the temple." 
1Kings7:51 King Solomon finished all of the work for the Lord's temple. Then he brought in the things his father David had set apart for the Lord. They included the silver and gold and all of the articles for the Lord's temple. Solomon placed them with the other treasures that were there. 
1Kings8:1 Then King Solomon sent for the elders of Israel. He told them to come to him in Jerusalem. They included all of the leaders of the tribes. They also included the chiefs of the families of Israel. Solomon wanted them to bring up the ark of the Lord's covenant from Zion. Zion was the City of David. 
1Kings8:2 All of the men of Israel came together to where King Solomon was. It was at the time of the Feast of Booths. The feast was held in the month of Ethanim. That's the seventh month. 
1Kings8:3 All of the elders of Israel arrived. Then the priests picked up the ark and carried it. 
1Kings8:4 They brought up the ark of the Lord. They also brought up the Tent of Meeting and all of the sacred articles that were in the tent. The priests and Levites carried everything up. 
1Kings8:5 The entire community of Israel had gathered around King Solomon. All of them were in front of the ark. They sacrificed huge numbers of sheep and cattle. There were so many that they couldn't be recorded. In fact, they couldn't even be counted." 
1Kings8:6 The priests brought the ark of the Lord's covenant to its place in the Most Holy Room of the temple. They put it under the wings of the cherubim. 
1Kings8:7 The cherubim's wings were spread out over the place where the ark was. They covered the ark. They also covered the poles that were used to carry it. 
1Kings8:8 The poles were so long that their ends could be seen from the Holy Room in front of the Most Holy Room. But they couldn't be seen from outside the Holy Room. They are still there to this very day. 
1Kings8:9 There wasn't anything in the ark except the two stone tablets. Moses had placed them in it at Mount Horeb. That's where the Lord had made a covenant with the Israelites. He made it after they came out of Egypt. 
1Kings8:10 The priests left the Holy Room. Then the cloud filled the temple of the Lord. 
1Kings8:11 The priests couldn't do their work because of it. That's because the glory of the Lord filled his temple. 
1Kings8:12 Then Solomon said, ""Lord, you have said you would live in a dark cloud." 
1Kings8:13 As you can see, I've built a beautiful temple for you. You can live in it forever.""" 
1Kings8:14 The whole community of Israel was standing there. The king turned around and gave them his blessing. 
1Kings8:15 Then he said, ""I praise the Lord. He is the God of Israel. With his own mouth he made a promise to my father David. With his own powerful hand he made it come true. He said," 
1Kings8:16 'I brought my people Israel out of Egypt. Ever since I did that, I have not chosen a city in any tribe of Israel where a temple could be built for my Name. But I have chosen David to rule over my people Israel.'" 
1Kings8:17 With all his heart my father David wanted to build a temple. He wanted to do it so the Lord could put his Name there. The Lord is the God of Israel. 
1Kings8:18 But the Lord spoke to my father David. He said, 'With all your heart you wanted to build a temple for my Name. It is good that you wanted to do that." 
1Kings8:19 But you will not build the temple. Instead, your son will build the temple for my Name. He is your own flesh and blood.'" 
1Kings8:20 The Lord has kept the promise he made. I've become the next king after my father David. Now I'm sitting on the throne of Israel. That's exactly what the Lord promised would happen. I've built the temple where the Lord will put his Name. He is the God of Israel. 
1Kings8:21 I've provided a place for the ark there. The tablets of the Lord's covenant are inside it. He made that covenant with our people of long ago. He made it when he brought them out of Egypt. 
1Kings8:22 Then Solomon stood in front of the Lord's altar. He stood in front of the whole community of Israel. He spread out his hands toward heaven. 
1Kings8:23 He said, ""Lord, you are the God of Israel. There is no God like you in heaven above or on earth below. You keep the covenant you made with us. You show us your love. You do that when we follow you with all our hearts." 
1Kings8:24 You have kept your promise to my father David. He was your servant. With your mouth you made a promise. With your powerful hand you have made it come true. And today we can see it. 
1Kings8:25 Lord, you are the God of Israel. Keep the promises you made to my father David. Do it for him. He was your servant. You said to him, 'You will always have a man to sit on the throne of Israel in my sight. That will be true only if your sons are careful in everything they do. They must live in my sight the way you have lived.'" 
1Kings8:26 God of Israel, let your promise to my father David come true." 
1Kings8:27 But will you really live on earth? After all, the heavens can't hold you. In fact, even the highest heavens can't hold you. So this temple I've built certainly can't hold you!" 
1Kings8:28 But please pay attention to my prayer. Lord my God, show me your favor as I make my appeal to you. Listen to my cry for help. Hear the prayer I'm praying to you today." 
1Kings8:29 Let your eyes look toward this temple night and day. You said, 'I will put my Name there.' So please listen to the prayer I'm praying toward this place." 
1Kings8:30 Hear me when I ask you to show us your favor. Listen to your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Listen to us from heaven. It's the place where you live. When you hear us, forgive us." 
1Kings8:31 Suppose a man does something wrong to his neighbor. And he is required to take an oath and make a promise. He must come and do it in front of your altar in this temple. 
1Kings8:32 When he does, listen to him from heaven. Take action. Judge between those people. Punish the one who is guilty. Do to him what he has done to his neighbor. Tell everyone that the one who hasn't done anything wrong is free from blame. That will prove he isn't guilty." 
1Kings8:33 Suppose your people Israel have lost the battle against their enemies. And suppose they've sinned against you. But they turn back to you and praise your name. They pray to you in this temple. And they ask you to show them your favor. 
1Kings8:34 Then listen to them from heaven. Forgive the sin of your people Israel. Bring them back to the land you gave to their people who lived long ago. 
1Kings8:35 Suppose your people have sinned against you. And because of that, the sky is closed up and there isn't any rain. But your people pray toward this place. They praise you by admitting they've sinned. And they turn away from their sin because you have made them suffer." 
1Kings8:36 Then listen to them from heaven. Forgive the sin of your people Israel. Teach them the right way to live. Send rain on the land you gave them as their share. 
1Kings8:37 Suppose there isn't enough food in the land. And a plague strikes the land. The hot winds completely dry up our crops. Or locusts or grasshoppers come and eat them up. Or an enemy surrounds one of our cities and gets ready to attack it. Or trouble or sickness comes. 
1Kings8:38 But suppose one of your people prays to you. He asks you to show him your favor. He is aware of how much his own heart is suffering. And he spreads out his hands toward this temple to pray. 
1Kings8:39 Then listen to him from heaven. It's the place where you live. Forgive him. Take action. Deal with him in keeping with everything he does. You know his heart. In fact, you are the only one who knows every human heart." 
1Kings8:40 Your people will have respect for you. They will respect you as long as they are in the land you gave our people long ago. 
1Kings8:41 Suppose there are strangers who don't belong to your people Israel. And they have come from a land far away. They've come because they've heard about your name. 
1Kings8:42 When they get here, they will find out even more about your great name. They'll hear about how you reached out your mighty hand and powerful arm. So they'll come and pray toward this temple." 
1Kings8:43 Then listen to them from heaven. It's the place where you live. Do what those strangers ask you to do. Then all of the nations on earth will know you. They will have respect for you. They'll respect you just as your own people Israel do. They'll know that your Name is in this house I've built. 
1Kings8:44 Suppose your people go to war against their enemies. It doesn't matter where you send them. And suppose they pray to you toward the city you have chosen. They pray toward the temple I've built for your Name. 
1Kings8:45 Then listen to them from heaven. Listen to their prayer. Listen to them when they ask you to show them your favor. Stand up for them. 
1Kings8:46 Suppose your people sin against you. After all, there isn't anyone who doesn't sin. And suppose you get angry with them. You hand them over to their enemies. They take them as prisoners to their own land. It doesn't matter whether it's near or far away." 
1Kings8:47 But suppose your people change their ways in the land where they are held as prisoners. They turn away from their sins. They beg you to help them in the land of those who won the battle over them. They say, 'We have sinned. We've done what is wrong. We've done what is evil.'" 
1Kings8:48 And they turn back to you with all their heart and soul. Suppose it happens in the land of their enemies who took them away as prisoners. There they pray to you toward the land you gave their people long ago. They pray toward the city you have chosen. And they pray toward the temple I've built for your Name. 
1Kings8:49 Then listen to them from heaven. It's the place where you live. Listen to their prayer. Listen to them when they ask you to show them your favor. Stand up for them. 
1Kings8:50 Your people have sinned against you. Please forgive them. Forgive them for all of the wrong things they've done against you. And make those who won the battle over them show mercy to them. 
1Kings8:51 After all, they are your people. They belong to you. You brought them out of Egypt. You brought them out of that furnace that melts iron down and makes it pure." 
1Kings8:52 Let your eyes be open to me when I ask you to show us your favor. Let them be open to your people Israel when they ask you to show them your favor. Pay attention to them every time they cry out to you. 
1Kings8:53 After all, you chose them out of all of the nations in the world. You made them your very own people. You did it just as you had announced through your servant Moses. That's when you brought our people out of Egypt. You are our Lord and King.""" 
1Kings8:54 Solomon finished all of those prayers. He finished asking the Lord to show his favor to his people. Then he got up from in front of the Lord's altar. He had been down on his knees with his hands spread out toward heaven. 
1Kings8:55 He stood in front of the whole community of Israel. He blessed them with a loud voice. He said," 
1Kings8:56 I praise the Lord. He has given peace and rest to his people Israel. That's exactly what he promised to do. He gave his people good promises through his servant Moses. Every single word of those promises has come true. 
1Kings8:57 May the Lord our God be with us, just as he was with our people who lived long ago. May he never leave us. May he never desert us." 
1Kings8:58 May he turn our hearts to him. Then we will live the way he wants us to. We'll obey the commands, rules and directions he gave our people." 
1Kings8:59 I've prayed these words to the Lord our God. May he keep them close to him day and night. May he stand up for me. May he also stand up for his people Israel. May he give us what we need every day. 
1Kings8:60 Then all of the nations on earth will know that the Lord is God. They'll know that there isn't any other god. 
1Kings8:61 But you must commit your lives completely to the Lord our God. You must live by his rules. You must obey his commands. You must always do as you are doing now. 
1Kings8:62 Then the king and the whole community of Israel offered sacrifices to the Lord. 
1Kings8:63 Solomon sacrificed friendship offerings to the Lord. He sacrificed 22,000 head of cattle. He also sacrificed 120,000 sheep and goats. So the king and the whole community set the temple of the Lord apart to him." 
1Kings8:64 On that same day the king set the middle area of the courtyard apart to the Lord. It was in front of the Lord's temple. There Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings and grain offerings. He also sacrificed the fat of the friendship offerings there. He did it there because the bronze altar in front of the Lord was too small. It wasn't big enough to hold all of the burnt offerings, the grain offerings and the fat of the friendship offerings." 
1Kings8:65 At that time Solomon celebrated the Feast of Booths. The whole community of Israel was with him. It was a huge crowd. People came from as far away as Lebo Hamath and the Wadi of Egypt. For seven days they celebrated in front of the Lord our God. The feast continued for seven more days. That made a total of 14 days. 
1Kings8:66 On the following day Solomon sent the people away. They asked the Lord to bless the king. Then they went home. The people were glad. Their hearts were full of joy. That's because the Lord had done so many good things for his servant David and his people Israel. 
1Kings9:1 Solomon finished building the Lord's temple and the royal palace. He had accomplished everything he had planned to do. 
1Kings9:2 The Lord appeared to him a second time. He had already appeared to him at Gibeon. 
1Kings9:3 The Lord said to him, ""I have heard you pray to me. I have heard you ask me to show you my favor. You have built this temple. I have set it apart for myself. My Name will be there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there." 
1Kings9:4 But you must walk with me, just as your father David did. Your heart must be honest. It must be without blame. Do everything I command you to do. Obey my rules and laws." 
1Kings9:5 Then I will set up your royal throne over Israel forever. I promised your father David I would do that. I said to him, 'You will always have a man on the throne of Israel.'" 
1Kings9:6 But suppose all of you turn away from me. Or your sons turn away from me. You refuse to obey the commands and rules I have given you. And you go off to serve other gods and worship them. 
1Kings9:7 Then I will cut Israel off from the land. It is the land I gave them. I will turn my back on this temple. I will do it even though I have set it apart for my Name to be there. Then Israel will be hated by all of the nations. They will laugh and joke about Israel. 
1Kings9:8 This temple is now grand and beautiful. But the time is coming when all those who pass by it will be shocked. They will make fun of it. And they will say, 'Why has the Lord done a thing like this to this land and temple?'" 
1Kings9:9 People will answer, 'Because they have deserted the Lord their God. He brought their people out of Egypt. But they have been holding on to other gods. They've been worshiping them. They've been serving them. That's why the Lord has brought all of this horrible trouble on them.' """ 
1Kings9:10 Solomon built the Lord's temple and the royal palace. It took him 20 years to construct those two buildings. 
1Kings9:11 King Solomon gave 20 towns in Galilee to Hiram. That's because Hiram had provided him with all of the cedar and pine logs he wanted. He had also provided him with all of the gold he wanted. Hiram was king of Tyre. 
1Kings9:12 Hiram went from Tyre to see the towns Solomon had given him. But he wasn't pleased with them. 
1Kings9:13 My friend,"" he asked, ""what have you given me? What kind of towns are these?"" So he called them the Land of Cabul. And that's what they are still called to this very day." 
1Kings9:14 Hiram had sent four and a half tons of gold to Solomon. 
1Kings9:15 King Solomon forced people to work hard for him. Here is a record of what they did. They built the Lord's temple and Solomon's palace. They filled in the low places. They rebuilt the wall of Jerusalem. They built up Hazor, Megiddo and Gezer." 
1Kings9:16 Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had attacked Gezer and captured it. He had set it on fire. He had killed the Canaanites who lived there. Then he had given Gezer as a wedding gift to his daughter. She was Solomon's wife." 
1Kings9:17 Solomon rebuilt Gezer. He built up Lower Beth Horon 
1Kings9:18 and Baalath. He built up Tadmor in the desert. All of those towns were in his land. 
1Kings9:19 He built up all of the cities where he could store things. He also built up the towns for his chariots and horses. He built anything he wanted to build in Jerusalem, Lebanon and all of the territory he ruled over." 
1Kings9:20 There were still many people left in the land who weren't Israelites. They included Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
1Kings9:21 They were children of the people who had lived in the land before the Israelites came. Those people had been set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. But the Israelites hadn't been able to kill all of them. Solomon had forced them to work very hard as his slaves. And they still work for Israel to this very day. 
1Kings9:22 But Solomon didn't force any of the men of Israel to work as his slaves. Instead, some were his fighting men. Others were his government officials, his officers and his captains. Others were commanders of his chariots and chariot drivers." 
1Kings9:23 Still others were the chief officials who were in charge of his projects. There were 550 officials in charge of those who did the work. 
1Kings9:24 Pharaoh's daughter moved from the City of David up to the palace Solomon had built for her. After that, he filled in the low places near the palace." 
1Kings9:25 Three times a year Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings and friendship offerings. He sacrificed them on the altar he had built to honor the Lord. Along with the offerings, he burned incense to the Lord. So he carried out his duties for the temple." 
1Kings9:26 King Solomon also built ships at Ezion Geber. It's near Elath in Edom. It's on the shore of the Red Sea. 
1Kings9:27 Hiram sent his men to serve on the ships together with Solomon's men. Hiram's sailors knew the sea. 
1Kings9:28 All of them sailed to Ophir. They brought back 16 tons of gold. They gave it to King Solomon. 
1Kings10:1 The queen of Sheba heard about how famous Solomon was. She also heard about how he served and worshiped the Lord. So she came to test him with hard questions. 
1Kings10:2 She arrived in Jerusalem with a very large group of attendants. Her camels were carrying spices, huge amounts of gold, and valuable jewels. She came to Solomon and asked him about everything she wanted to know." 
1Kings10:3 Solomon answered all of her questions. There wasn't anything that was too hard for the king to explain to her. 
1Kings10:4 So the queen of Sheba saw how very wise Solomon was. She saw the palace he had built. 
1Kings10:5 She saw the food that was on his table. She saw his officials sitting there. She saw the robes of the servants who waited on everyone. She saw his wine tasters. And she saw the burnt offerings Solomon sacrificed at the Lord's temple. She could hardly believe everything she had seen. 
1Kings10:6 She said to the king, ""Back in my own country I heard a report about you. I heard about how much you had accomplished. I also heard about how wise you are. Everything I heard is true." 
1Kings10:7 But I didn't believe those things. So I came to see for myself. And now I believe it! You are twice as wise and wealthy as people say you are. The report I heard doesn't even begin to tell the whole story about you. 
1Kings10:8 How happy your men must be! How happy your officials must be! They always get to serve you and hear the wise things you say. 
1Kings10:9 May the Lord your God be praised. He must take great delight in you. He placed you on the throne of Israel. The Lord will love Israel for all time to come. That's why he has made you king. He knows that you will do what is fair and right. 
1Kings10:10 She gave the king four and a half tons of gold. She also gave him huge amounts of spices and valuable jewels. No one would ever bring to King Solomon as many spices as the queen of Sheba gave him. 
1Kings10:11 Hiram's ships brought gold from Ophir. From there they also brought huge amounts of almugwood and valuable jewels. 
1Kings10:12 The king used the almugwood to make supports for the Lord's temple and the royal palace. He also used it to make harps and lyres for those who played the music. That much almugwood has never been brought into Judah or seen there since that day. 
1Kings10:13 King Solomon gave the queen of Sheba everything she wanted and asked for. That was in addition to what he had given her out of his royal riches. Then she left. She returned to her own country with her attendants. 
1Kings10:14 Each year Solomon received 25 tons of gold. 
1Kings10:15 That didn't include the money that was brought in by business and trade. It also didn't include the money from all of the kings of Arabia and the governors of Israel. 
1Kings10:16 King Solomon made 200 large shields out of hammered gold. Each one weighed seven and a half pounds. 
1Kings10:17 He also made 300 small shields out of hammered gold. Each one weighed almost four pounds. The king put all of the shields in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. 
1Kings10:18 Then he made a large throne. It was decorated with ivory. It was covered with fine gold. 
1Kings10:19 The throne had six steps. Its back had a rounded top. The throne had armrests on both sides of the seat. A statue of a lion stood on each side of the throne. 
1Kings10:20 Twelve lions stood on the six steps. There was one at each end of each step. Nothing like that throne had ever been made for any other kingdom. 
1Kings10:21 All of King Solomon's cups were made out of gold. All of the articles that were used in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon were made out of pure gold. Nothing was made out of silver. When Solomon was king, silver wasn't considered to be worth very much." 
1Kings10:22 He had many ships that carried goods to be traded. His ships went to sea along with Hiram's ships. Once every three years the ships returned. They brought gold, silver, ivory, apes and baboons." 
1Kings10:23 King Solomon was richer than all of the other kings on earth. He was also wiser than they were. 
1Kings10:24 People from the whole world wanted to meet Solomon in person. They wanted to see for themselves how wise God had made him. 
1Kings10:25 Year after year, everyone who came to him brought a gift. They brought articles that were made out of silver and gold. They brought robes, weapons and spices. They also brought horses and mules." 
1Kings10:26 Solomon had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horses. He kept some of his horses and chariots in the chariot cities. He kept the others with him in Jerusalem." 
1Kings10:27 The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones. He made cedar wood as common there as sycamore-fig trees in the western hills. 
1Kings10:28 Solomon got horses from Egypt and from Kue. The royal traders bought them from Kue. 
1Kings10:29 They weighed out 15 pounds of silver for a chariot from Egypt. And they weighed out almost four pounds of silver for a horse. They also sold horses and chariots to all of the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Arameans. 
1Kings11:1 King Solomon loved many women besides Pharaoh's daughter. They were from other lands. They were Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians and Hittites." 
1Kings11:2 The Lord had warned Israel about women from other nations. He had said, ""You must not get married to them. If you do, you can be sure they will turn your hearts toward their gods."" But Solomon continued to love them anyway. He wouldn't give them up." 
1Kings11:3 He had 700 wives who came from royal families. And he had 300 concubines. His wives led him down the wrong path. 
1Kings11:4 As Solomon grew older, his wives turned his heart toward other gods. He didn't follow the Lord his God with all his heart. So he wasn't like his father David." 
1Kings11:5 Solomon worshiped Ashtoreth. Ashtoreth was the goddess of the people of Sidon. He also worshiped Molech. Molech was the god of the people of Ammon. The Lord hated that god. 
1Kings11:6 Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He didn't follow the Lord completely. He didn't do what his father David had done. 
1Kings11:7 There is a hill east of Jerusalem. Solomon built a high place for worshiping Chemosh there. He built a high place for worshiping Molech there too. Chemosh was the god of Moab. Molech was the god of Ammon. The Lord hated both of those gods. 
1Kings11:8 Solomon also built high places so that all of his wives from other nations could worship their gods. Those women burned incense and offered sacrifices to their gods. 
1Kings11:9 The Lord became angry with Solomon. That's because his heart had turned away from the Lord. He is the God of Israel. He had appeared to Solomon twice. 
1Kings11:10 He had commanded Solomon not to follow other gods. But Solomon didn't obey him. 
1Kings11:11 So the Lord said to Solomon, ""You have chosen not to keep my covenant. You have decided not to obey my rules. I commanded you to do what I told you. But you did not do it. So you can be absolutely sure I will tear the kingdom away from you. I will give it to one of your officials." 
1Kings11:12 But I will not do that while you are still living. Because of your father David I will wait. I will tear the kingdom out of your son's hand. 
1Kings11:13 But I will not tear the whole kingdom away from him. I will give him one of the tribes because of my servant David. I will also do it because of Jerusalem. That is the city I have chosen. 
1Kings11:14 Then the Lord brought an enemy against Solomon. The enemy's name was Hadad. He was from Edom. In fact, he belonged to the royal family of Edom." 
1Kings11:15 David had fought against Edom. Joab had been the commander of the army. He had gone up to bury the dead bodies of the Israelites who had been killed in battle. At that time he had struck down all of the men in Edom. 
1Kings11:16 In fact, Joab and all of the men of Israel stayed there for six months. During that time they destroyed all of the men in Edom." 
1Kings11:17 But when Hadad was only a boy, he ran away to Egypt. Some officials from Edom went with him. They had served Hadad's father." 
1Kings11:18 They started out from Midian and went to Paran. They took some men from Paran with them. Then they went to Egypt. They went to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. He gave Hadad a house and some land. He also supplied him with food." 
1Kings11:19 Pharaoh was very pleased with Hadad. Pharaoh's wife was Queen Tahpenes. He gave Hadad her sister to be his wife. 
1Kings11:20 The sister of Tahpenes had a son by Hadad. The baby was named Genubath. Tahpenes brought him up in the royal palace. Genubath lived there with Pharaoh's own children. 
1Kings11:21 Hadad heard that David had joined the members of his family who had already died. He also heard that Joab, the commander of the army, was dead. Hadad heard those things while he was in Egypt. He said to Pharaoh, ""Let me go. I want to return to my own country.""" 
1Kings11:22 Why do you want to go back to your own country? Pharaoh asked. Don't you have everything you need right here? Yes,"" Hadad replied. ""But I want you to let me go anyway!""" 
1Kings11:23 God brought another enemy against Solomon. The enemy's name was Rezon. He was the son of Eliada. Rezon had run away from his master Hadadezer, the king of Zobah." 
1Kings11:24 He gathered some men together to follow him. He became the leader of a group of men who had refused to follow David. It happened when David destroyed the troops of Zobah. Then the group that was against David went to Damascus. They settled down there and took control of it. 
1Kings11:25 Rezon was Israel's enemy as long as Solomon was living. Rezon added to the trouble Hadad had caused. So Rezon ruled in Aram. He was Israel's enemy. 
1Kings11:26 Jeroboam refused to follow King Solomon. He was one of Solomon's officials. He was from Zeredah in the territory of Ephraim. His father was Nebat. His mother was a widow named Zeruah. 
1Kings11:27 Here is the story of how Jeroboam refused to follow the king. Solomon had filled in the low places near the palace. He had also repaired the wall of the city of his father David. 
1Kings11:28 Jeroboam was a very important young man. Solomon saw how well he did his work. So he put him in charge of all of the workers in northern Israel. 
1Kings11:29 About that time Jeroboam was going out of Jerusalem. The prophet Ahijah met him on the road. Ahijah was from Shiloh. He was wearing a new coat. The two of them were all alone out in the country. 
1Kings11:30 Ahijah grabbed hold of the new coat he had on. He tore it up into 12 pieces. 
1Kings11:31 Then he said to Jeroboam, ""Take ten pieces for yourself. The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'I am going to tear the kingdom out of Solomon's hand. I will give you ten of its tribes." 
1Kings11:32 Solomon will have one of its tribes. I will let him keep it because of my servant David and because of Jerusalem. I have chosen that city out of all of the cities in the tribes of Israel. 
1Kings11:33  'I will do those things because the tribes have deserted me. They have worshiped Ashtoreth, the goddess of the people of Sidon. They have worshiped Chemosh, the god of the people of Moab. And they have worshiped Molech, the god of the people of Ammon. They have not lived the way I wanted them to. They have not done what is right in my eyes. They have not obeyed my rules and laws as Solomon's father David did." 
1Kings11:34  'But I will not take the whole kingdom out of Solomon's hand. I have made him ruler all the days of his life. I have done it because of my servant David. I chose him. He obeyed my commands and rules. 
1Kings11:35  'I will take the kingdom out of his son's hands. And I will give you ten of the tribes. 
1Kings11:36  'I will give one of the tribes to David's son. Then my servant David will always have a son on his throne in Jerusalem. The lamp of David's kingdom will always burn brightly in my sight. Jerusalem is the city I chose for my Name. 
1Kings11:37  'But I will make you king over Israel. You will rule over everything your heart longs for. So you will be the king of Israel. 
1Kings11:38 Do everything I command you to do. Live the way I want you to. Do what is right in my eyes. Obey my rules and commands. That is what my servant David did. If you do those things, I will be with you. I will build you a kingdom. It will last as long as the one I built for David. I will give Israel to you." 
1Kings11:39  'I will punish David's family because of what Solomon has done. But I will not punish them forever.' 
1Kings11:40 Solomon tried to kill Jeroboam. But Jeroboam ran away to Egypt. He went to Shishak, the king of Egypt. He stayed there until Solomon died." 
1Kings11:41 The other events of Solomon's rule are written down. Everything he did and the wisdom he showed are written down. They are written in the official records of Solomon. 
1Kings11:42 Solomon ruled in Jerusalem over the whole nation of Israel for 40 years. 
1Kings11:43 Then he joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the city of his father David. Solomon's son Rehoboam became the next king after him. 
1Kings12:1 Rehoboam went to Shechem. All of the people of Israel had gone there to make him king. 
1Kings12:2 Jeroboam heard about it. He was the son of Nebat. Jeroboam was still in Egypt at that time. He had gone there for safety. He wanted to get away from King Solomon. But now he returned from Egypt. 
1Kings12:3 So the people sent for Jeroboam. He and the whole community of Israel went to Rehoboam. They said to him," 
1Kings12:4 Your father put a heavy load on our shoulders. But now make our hard work easier. Make the heavy load on us lighter. Then we'll serve you. 
1Kings12:5 Rehoboam answered, ""Go away for three days. Then come back to me."" So the people went away." 
1Kings12:6 King Rehoboam asked the elders for advice. They had served his father Solomon while he was still living. Rehoboam asked them, ""What advice can you give me? How should I answer these people?""" 
1Kings12:7 They replied, ""Serve them today. Give them what they are asking for. Then they'll always serve you.""" 
1Kings12:8 But Rehoboam didn't accept the advice the elders gave him. Instead, he asked for advice from the young men who had grown up with him and were now serving him." 
1Kings12:9 He asked them, ""What's your advice? How should I answer these people? They say to me, 'Make the load your father put on our shoulders lighter.' """ 
1Kings12:10 The young men who had grown up with him gave their answer. They replied, ""These people say to you, 'Your father put a heavy load on our shoulders. Make it lighter.' Tell them, 'My little finger is stronger than my father's legs." 
1Kings12:11 My father put a heavy load on your shoulders. But I'll make it even heavier. My father beat you with whips. But I'll beat you with bigger whips.' 
1Kings12:12 Three days later Jeroboam and all of the people returned to Rehoboam. That's because the king had said, ""Come back to me in three days.""" 
1Kings12:13 The king answered the people in a mean way. He didn't accept the advice the elders had given him. 
1Kings12:14 Instead, he followed the advice of the young men. He said, ""My father put a heavy load on your shoulders. But I'll make it even heavier. My father beat you with whips. But I'll beat you with bigger whips.""" 
1Kings12:15 So the king didn't listen to the people. That's because the Lord had planned it that way. What he had said through Ahijah came true. Ahijah had spoken the Lord's message to Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. Ahijah was from Shiloh." 
1Kings12:16 All of the people of Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them. So they answered the king. They said, ""We don't have any share in David's royal family. We don't have any share in Jesse's son. People of Israel, let's go back to our homes. David's royal family, take care of your own kingdom!"" So the people of Israel went home." 
1Kings12:17 But Rehoboam still ruled over the Israelites who were living in the towns of Judah. 
1Kings12:18 Adoniram was in charge of those who were forced to work hard for King Rehoboam. The king sent him out among all of the Israelites. But they killed him by throwing stones at him. King Rehoboam was able to get away in his chariot. He escaped to Jerusalem. 
1Kings12:19 Israel has refused to follow the royal family of David to this very day. 
1Kings12:20 All of the people of Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned. They sent for him. They wanted him to meet with the whole community. Then they made him king over the entire nation of Israel. Only the tribe of Judah remained true to David's royal family. 
1Kings12:21 Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem. He brought together 180,000 fighting men from the royal house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin. He had decided to make war against the royal house of Israel. Solomon's son Rehoboam wanted his fighting men to get the kingdom of Israel back for him." 
1Kings12:22 But a message from God came to Shemaiah. He was a man of God. God said to him," 
1Kings12:23 Speak to Solomon's son Rehoboam, the king of Judah. Speak to the royal house of Judah and Benjamin. Also speak to the rest of the people. Tell all of them," 
1Kings12:24 'The Lord says, ""Do not go up to fight against the Israelites. They are your relatives. I want every one of you to go back home. Things have happened exactly the way I planned them."" ' "" So the fighting men obeyed the Lord's message. They went home again, just as he had ordered." 
1Kings12:25 Jeroboam built up the walls of Shechem. It was in the hill country of Ephraim. Jeroboam made Shechem his home. From there he went out and built up Peniel. 
1Kings12:26 Jeroboam thought, ""My kingdom still isn't secure. It could very easily go back to the royal family of David." 
1Kings12:27 Suppose the people of Israel go up to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices at the Lord's temple. If they do, they will again decide to follow Rehoboam as their master. Then they'll kill me. They'll return to King Rehoboam. He is king of Judah.""" 
1Kings12:28 So King Jeroboam asked for advice. Then he made two golden statues that looked like calves. He said to the people, ""It's too hard for you to go up to Jerusalem. Israel, here are your gods who brought you up out of Egypt.""" 
1Kings12:29 He set up one statue in Bethel. He set up the other one in Dan. 
1Kings12:30 What Jeroboam did was sinful. And it caused Israel to sin. The people even went all the way to Dan to worship the statue that was there. 
1Kings12:31 Jeroboam built temples for worshiping gods on high places. He appointed all kinds of people as priests. They didn't even have to be Levites. 
1Kings12:32 He established a feast. It was on the 15th day of the eighth month. He wanted to make it like the Feast of Booths that was held in Judah. Jeroboam built an altar at Bethel. He offered sacrifices on it. He sacrificed to the calves he had made. He also put priests in Bethel. He did it at the high places he had made. 
1Kings12:33 He offered sacrifices on the altar he had built at Bethel. It was on the 15th day of the eighth month. That's the month he had chosen for it. So he established the feast for the people of Israel. And he went up to the altar to sacrifice offerings. 
1Kings13:1 A man of God went from Judah to Bethel. He had received a message from the Lord. He arrived in Bethel just as Jeroboam was standing by the altar to offer a sacrifice. 
1Kings13:2 The man cried out. He shouted a message from the Lord against the altar. He said, ""Altar! Altar! The Lord says, 'A son named Josiah will be born into the royal family of David. Altar, listen to me! Josiah will sacrifice the priests of the high places on you. They will be the children of the priests who are offering sacrifices here now. So human bones will be burned on you.' """ 
1Kings13:3 That same day the man of God spoke about a miraculous sign. He said, ""Here is the sign the Lord has announced. This altar will be broken to pieces. The ashes on it will be spilled out.""" 
1Kings13:4 The man of God announced that message against the altar at Bethel. When King Jeroboam heard it, he reached out his hand from the altar. He said, ""Grab him!"" But as he reached out his hand toward the man, it dried up. He couldn't even pull it back." 
1Kings13:5 Also, the altar broke into pieces. Its ashes spilled out. That happened in keeping with the miraculous sign the man of God had announced. He had received a message from the Lord." 
1Kings13:6 King Jeroboam spoke to the man of God. He said, ""Pray to the Lord your God for me. Pray that my hand will be as good as new again."" So the man of God prayed to the Lord for the king. And the king's hand became as good as new. It was just as healthy as it had been before." 
1Kings13:7 The king said to the man of God, ""Come home with me. Have something to eat. I'll give you a gift.""" 
1Kings13:8 But the man of God replied to the king. He said, ""What if you were to give me half of what you own? Even then I wouldn't go with you. I wouldn't eat bread or drink water here." 
1Kings13:9 The Lord gave me a command. He said, 'Do not eat bread or drink water there. Do not return the same way you came.' """ 
1Kings13:10 So he took another road. He didn't go back on the same road he had taken when he came to Bethel. 
1Kings13:11 An old prophet was living in Bethel. His sons came and spoke to him. They told him everything the man of God had done there that day. They also told their father what the man had said to the king. 
1Kings13:12 Their father asked them, ""Which way did he go?"" His sons showed him the road the man of God from Judah had taken." 
1Kings13:13 So he said to his sons, ""Put a saddle on the donkey for me."" When they had done it, he got on the donkey." 
1Kings13:14 He traveled on the same road the man of God had taken. He found the man sitting under an oak tree. He asked him, ""Are you the man of God who came from Judah?"" ""I am,"" he replied." 
1Kings13:15 So the prophet said to him, ""Come home with me. I'll give you something to eat.""" 
1Kings13:16 The man of God said, ""I can't go back to Bethel with you. I can't eat bread or drink water with you there." 
1Kings13:17 I've received a message from the Lord. He told me, 'Do not eat bread or drink water there. Do not return the same way you came.' """ 
1Kings13:18 The old prophet answered, ""I'm also a prophet, just like you. An angel gave me a message from the Lord. The message said, 'Bring the man of God back with you to your house. Then he can eat bread and drink water with you.' "" But the old prophet was telling him a lie." 
1Kings13:19 The man of God returned with him. He ate and drank in his house. 
1Kings13:20 They were sitting at the table. The Lord gave a message to the old prophet who had brought the man of God back. 
1Kings13:21 He cried out to the man who had come from Judah. He told him, ""The Lord says, 'You have not done what I told you to do. You have not obeyed the command I gave you. I am the Lord your God." 
1Kings13:22 You came back here and ate bread and drank water. You did it in the place where I told you not to. So your body will not be buried in your family tomb.' 
1Kings13:23 The man of God finished eating and drinking. Then the old prophet who had brought him back put a saddle on the man's donkey for him. 
1Kings13:24 And the man went on his way. A lion attacked him on the road and killed him. His body was left lying on the road. The donkey and the lion were standing beside it. 
1Kings13:25 Some people passed by. They saw the body lying on the road. They saw the lion standing beside the body. Then they went and reported it in the city where the old prophet lived. 
1Kings13:26 The prophet who had brought the man back from his journey heard about what had happened. He said, ""It's the man of God. He didn't do what the Lord told him to do. So the Lord has given him over to the lion. The lion has attacked him and killed him. Everything has happened just as the Lord's message had warned him it would.""" 
1Kings13:27 The old prophet said to his sons, ""Put a saddle on the donkey for me."" So they did." 
1Kings13:28 Then he went out. He found the body of the man of God lying on the road. The donkey and the lion were standing beside it. The lion hadn't eaten the body. It hadn't attacked the donkey either. 
1Kings13:29 So the prophet picked up the man's body. He put it on the donkey. He brought it back to his own city. He wanted to sob over him and bury him. 
1Kings13:30 Then he placed the body in his own tomb. People sobbed over him. They said, ""My friend! My dear friend!""" 
1Kings13:31 After the old prophet had buried the body of the man of God, he spoke to his sons. He said, ""When I die, bury my body in the grave where the man of God is buried. Put my bones next to his bones." 
1Kings13:32 I want you to do that because he announced a message from the Lord. He spoke against the altar in Bethel. He also spoke against all of the temples that were on the high places. They are in the towns of Samaria. What the man of God said will certainly come true. 
1Kings13:33 Even after all of that happened, Jeroboam still didn't change his evil ways. Once more he appointed priests for the high places. He made priests out of all kinds of people. In fact, he let anyone become a priest who wanted to. He set them apart to serve at the high places." 
1Kings13:34 All of that was the great sin the royal family of Jeroboam committed. It led to their fall from power. Because of it, they were destroyed from the face of the earth." 
1Kings14:1 At that time Abijah became sick. He was the son of Jeroboam. 
1Kings14:2 Jeroboam said to his wife, ""Go. Put on some different clothes. Then no one will recognize you as my wife. Go to Shiloh. That's where the prophet Ahijah is. He told me I would be king over the people of Israel." 
1Kings14:3 Take ten loaves of bread with you. Take some cakes and a jar of honey. Go to him. He'll tell you what will happen to our son. 
1Kings14:4 So Jeroboam's wife did what he said. She went to Ahijah's house in Shiloh. Ahijah couldn't see. He was blind because he was so old. 
1Kings14:5 But the Lord had told Ahijah, ""Jeroboam's wife is coming. Her son is sick. She'll ask you about him. Give her the answer I give you. When she arrives, she'll pretend to be someone else.""" 
1Kings14:6 Ahijah heard the sound of her footsteps at the door. He said, ""Come in. I know that you are Jeroboam's wife. Why are you pretending to be someone else? I have some bad news for you." 
1Kings14:7 Go. Tell Jeroboam that the Lord has a message for him. The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'I chose you from among the people. I made you the leader of my people Israel." 
1Kings14:8 I tore the kingdom away from the royal house of David. I gave it to you. But you have not been like my servant David. He obeyed my commands. He followed me with all his heart. He did only what was right in my eyes. 
1Kings14:9 You have done more evil things than all those who lived before you. You have made other gods for yourself. You have made statues of gods out of metal. You have made me very angry. You have turned your back on me. 
1Kings14:10  'Because of that, I am going to bring horrible trouble on your royal house. I will cut off from you every male in Israel. It does not matter whether they are slaves or free. I will burn up your royal house, just as someone burns up trash. I will burn it until it is all gone." 
1Kings14:11 Some of the people who belong to you will die in the city. Dogs will eat them up. Others will die in the country. The birds of the air will eat them. I have spoken!' 
1Kings14:12 Now go back home. When you enter your city, your son will die." 
1Kings14:13 All of the people of Israel will sob over him. Then his body will be buried. He is the only one who belongs to Jeroboam who will be buried. That is because he is the only one in Jeroboam's royal house in whom I have found anything good. I am the Lord, the God of Israel." 
1Kings14:14 I will choose for myself a king over Israel. He will cut off the family of Jeroboam. This very day your son will die. Can that really be true? Yes. Even now, that is what I am telling you." 
1Kings14:15 I will strike Israel down. Israel will be like tall grass swaying in the water. I will pull Israel up from this good land by the roots. I gave it to their people who lived long ago. I will scatter Israel to the east side of the Euphrates River. That is because they made me very angry. They made poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. 
1Kings14:16 I will give Israel up because of the sins Jeroboam has committed. He has also caused Israel to commit those same sins. 
1Kings14:17 Then Jeroboam's wife got up and left. She went to the city of Tirzah. As soon as she stepped through the doorway of the house, her son died." 
1Kings14:18 His body was buried. All of the people of Israel sobbed over him. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had said it through his servant, the prophet Ahijah." 
1Kings14:19 The other events of Jeroboam's rule are written down. His wars and how he ruled are written down. They are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings14:20 Jeroboam ruled for 22 years. Then he joined the members of his family who had already died. Jeroboam's son Nadab became the next king after him. 
1Kings14:21 Rehoboam was king in Judah. He was the son of Solomon. Rehoboam was 41 years old when he became king. He ruled for 17 years in Jerusalem. It was the city the Lord had chosen out of all of the cities in the tribes of Israel. He wanted to put his Name there. Rehoboam's mother was Naamah from Ammon. 
1Kings14:22 The people of Judah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. The sins they had committed stirred up his jealous anger. They did more to make him angry than their people who lived before them had done. 
1Kings14:23 Judah also set up for themselves high places for worship. They set up sacred stones. They set up poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. They did it on every high hill and under every green tree. 
1Kings14:24 There were even male prostitutes at the temples in the land. The people took part in all of the practices of other nations. The Lord hated those practices. He had driven those nations out to make room for the people of Israel. 
1Kings14:25 Shishak attacked Jerusalem. It was in the fifth year that Rehoboam was king. Shishak was king of Egypt. 
1Kings14:26 He carried away the treasures of the Lord's temple. He also carried the treasures of the royal palace away. He took everything. That included all of the gold shields Solomon had made. 
1Kings14:27 So King Rehoboam made bronze shields to take their place. He gave them to the commanders of the guards who were on duty at the entrance to the royal palace. 
1Kings14:28 Every time the king went to the Lord's temple, the guards carried the shields. Later, they took them back to the room where they were kept." 
1Kings14:29 The other events of Rehoboam's rule are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
1Kings14:30 Rehoboam and Jeroboam were always at war with each other. 
1Kings14:31 Rehoboam joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in his family tomb in the City of David. His mother was Naamah from Ammon. His son Abijah became the next king after him. 
1Kings15:1 Abijah became king of Judah. It was in the 18th year of Jeroboam's rule over Israel. Jeroboam was the son of Nebat. 
1Kings15:2 Abijah ruled in Jerusalem for three years. His mother's name was Maacah. She was Abishalom's daughter. 
1Kings15:3 Abijah committed all of the sins his father had committed before him. Abijah didn't follow the Lord his God with all his heart. He didn't do what King David had done. 
1Kings15:4 But the Lord still kept the lamp of Abijah's kingdom burning brightly in Jerusalem. He did it by giving him a son to be the next king after him. He also did it by making Jerusalem strong. The Lord did those things because of David. 
1Kings15:5 David had done what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He had kept all of the Lord's commands. He had obeyed them all the days of his life. But he hadn't obeyed the Lord in the case of Uriah, the Hittite." 
1Kings15:6 There was war between Jeroboam and Abijah's father Rehoboam. The war continued all through Abijah's life. 
1Kings15:7 The other events of Abijah's rule are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. There was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
1Kings15:8 Abijah joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the City of David. His son Asa became the next king after him. 
1Kings15:9 Asa became king of Judah. It was in the 20th year that Jeroboam was king of Israel. 
1Kings15:10 Asa ruled in Jerusalem for 41 years. His grandmother's name was Maacah. She was Abishalom's daughter. 
1Kings15:11 Asa did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. That's what King David had done. 
1Kings15:12 Asa threw out of the land the male prostitutes who were at the temples. He got rid of all of the statues of gods his people before him had made. 
1Kings15:13 He even removed his grandmother Maacah from her position as queen mother. That's because she had made a pole that was used to worship the goddess Asherah. The Lord hated it. So Asa cut it down. He burned it in the Kidron Valley. 
1Kings15:14 Asa didn't remove the high places from Israel. But he committed his whole life completely to the Lord. 
1Kings15:15 He and his father had set apart silver, gold and other articles to the Lord. He brought them into the Lord's temple." 
1Kings15:16 There was war between Asa and Baasha, the king of Israel. It lasted the whole time they were kings." 
1Kings15:17 Baasha was king of Israel. He marched out against Judah. He built up the walls of Ramah. He did it to keep people from leaving or entering the territory of Asa, the king of Judah." 
1Kings15:18 Asa took all of the silver and gold that was left among the treasures of the Lord's temple and his own palace. He put his officials in charge of it. He sent the officials to Ben-Hadad. Ben-Hadad was king of Aram. He was ruling in Damascus. He was the son of Tabrimmon and the grandson of Hezion. 
1Kings15:19 Let's make a peace treaty between us,"" Asa said. ""My father and your father had made a peace treaty between them. Now I'm sending you a gift of silver and gold. So break your treaty with Baasha, the king of Israel. Then he'll go back home.""" 
1Kings15:20 Ben-Hadad agreed with King Asa. He sent his army commanders against the towns of Israel. He attacked Ijon, Dan, Abel Beth Maacah and the whole area of Kinnereth in addition to Naphtali." 
1Kings15:21 Baasha heard about it. So he stopped building up Ramah. He went back home to Tirzah. 
1Kings15:22 Then King Asa gave an order to all of the men of Judah. Everyone was required to help. They carried away from Ramah the stones and wood Baasha had been using there. King Asa used them to build up Geba in the territory of Benjamin. He also used them to build up Mizpah. 
1Kings15:23 All of the other events of Asa's rule are written down. Everything he accomplished is written down. Everything he did and the cities he built are written down. They are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. But when Asa became old, his feet began to give him trouble." 
1Kings15:24 He joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in his family tomb. It was in the city of King David. Asa's son Jehoshaphat became the next king after him. 
1Kings15:25 Nadab became king of Israel. It was in the second year that Asa was king of Judah. Nadab ruled over Israel for two years. He was the son of Jeroboam. 
1Kings15:26 Nadab did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He lived the way his father had lived. He sinned as his father had sinned. Jeroboam had also caused Israel to commit the same sins. 
1Kings15:27 Baasha was from the tribe of Issachar. He was the son of Ahijah. Baasha made plans against Nadab and struck him down at Gibbethon. It was a Philistine town. Baasha struck him down while Nadab and all of the men of Israel were getting ready to attack Gibbethon. 
1Kings15:28 He killed Nadab in the third year that Asa was king of Judah. Baasha became the next king after Nadab. 
1Kings15:29 As soon as Baasha became king, he killed Jeroboam's whole family. He didn't leave any of them alive. He destroyed every one of them. He did what the Lord had said would happen. The Lord had spoken that message through his servant Ahijah from Shiloh." 
1Kings15:30 The Lord judged Jeroboam's family because of the sins Jeroboam had committed. He had also caused Israel to commit those same sins. He had made the Lord very angry. The Lord is the God of Israel. 
1Kings15:31 The other events of Nadab's rule are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings15:32 There was war between Asa and Baasha, the king of Israel. It lasted the whole time they were kings." 
1Kings15:33 Baasha became king of Israel in Tirzah. It was in the third year that Asa was king of Judah. Baasha ruled for 24 years. He was the son of Ahijah. 
1Kings15:34 Baasha did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He lived the way Jeroboam had lived. He sinned as Jeroboam had sinned. Jeroboam had also caused Israel to commit the same sins. 
1Kings16:1 The Lord's message against Baasha came to Jehu. Jehu was the son of Hanani. The Lord said," 
1Kings16:2 I lifted you up from the dust. I made you leader of my people Israel. But you lived the way Jeroboam had lived. You also caused my people Israel to sin. And their sins made me very angry. 
1Kings16:3 So I am about to destroy you and your royal house. I will make your house like the royal house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat." 
1Kings16:4 Some of the people who belong to you will die in the city. Dogs will eat them up. Others will die in the country. The birds of the air will eat them. 
1Kings16:5 The other events of Baasha's rule are written down. What he did and what he accomplished are written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings16:6 Baasha joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in Tirzah. His son Elah became the next king after him. 
1Kings16:7 The Lord's message came through the prophet Jehu, the son of Hanani. It was against Baasha and his royal house. Baasha had done all kinds of evil things in the sight of the Lord. What he did had made the Lord very angry. So Baasha had become as sinful as the royal house of Jeroboam had been. He had also destroyed it." 
1Kings16:8 Elah became king of Israel. It was in the 26th year that Asa was king of Judah. Elah ruled in Tirzah for two years. He was the son of Baasha. 
1Kings16:9 Zimri was one of Elah's officials. He commanded half of Elah's chariot drivers. He made plans against Elah. Elah was in Tirzah at the time. He was getting drunk in the home of Arza. Arza was in charge of the palace at Tirzah. 
1Kings16:10 Zimri came in. He struck Elah down and killed him. It was in the 27th year of Asa, the king of Judah. Zimri became the next king after Elah." 
1Kings16:11 As soon as Zimri was seated on the throne as king, he killed off Baasha's whole family. He didn't even spare one male. It didn't matter whether it was a relative or a friend." 
1Kings16:12 So Zimri destroyed the whole family of Baasha. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken against Baasha through the prophet Jehu. 
1Kings16:13 Baasha and his son Elah had committed all kinds of sin. They had also caused Israel to commit the same sins. So Israel made the Lord very angry. They did it by worshiping worthless statues of gods. The Lord is the God of Israel. 
1Kings16:14 The other events of Elah's rule are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings16:15 Zimri ruled in Tirzah for seven days. It was in the 27th year that Asa was king of Judah. The army of Israel had set up camp near Gibbethon. It was a Philistine town. 
1Kings16:16 The people of Israel who were in the camp heard that Zimri had made plans against King Elah. They also heard that Zimri had murdered him. So they announced that Omri was king over Israel. He was the commander of the army. They made him king that very day in the camp. 
1Kings16:17 Then Omri and all of his men pulled back from Gibbethon. They marched to Tirzah and surrounded it. They attacked it and captured it. 
1Kings16:18 Zimri saw that they had taken over the city. So he went into the safest place in the royal palace. He set the palace on fire all around him. He died there 
1Kings16:19 because of the sins he had committed. He had done what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He had lived the way Jeroboam had lived. He had sinned as Jeroboam had sinned. Jeroboam had also caused Israel to commit the same sins. 
1Kings16:20 The other events of Zimri's rule are written down. The way he turned against King Elah and killed him is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings16:21 The people of Israel divided up into two groups. Half of them wanted Tibni to be king. He was the son of Ginath. The other half wanted Omri. 
1Kings16:22 But Omri's followers were stronger than those of Tibni, the son of Ginath. So Tibni died. And Omri began to rule." 
1Kings16:23 Omri became king of Israel. It was in the 31st year that Asa was king of Judah. Omri ruled for 12 years. He ruled in Tirzah for six of those years. 
1Kings16:24 He bought the hill of Samaria from Shemer. He weighed out 150 pounds of silver for it. Then he built a city on the hill. He called it Samaria. He named it after Shemer. Shemer had owned the hill before him. 
1Kings16:25 But Omri did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He sinned more than all of the kings who had ruled before him. 
1Kings16:26 He lived the way Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had lived. He sinned as Jeroboam had sinned. Jeroboam had also caused Israel to commit the same sins. Israel made the Lord very angry. They did it by worshiping worthless statues of gods. The Lord is the God of Israel." 
1Kings16:27 The other events of Omri's rule are written down. Everything he did and the things he accomplished are written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings16:28 Omri joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in Samaria. His son Ahab became the next king after him. 
1Kings16:29 Ahab became king of Israel. It was in the 38th year that Asa was king of Judah. Ahab ruled over Israel in Samaria for 22 years. He was the son of Omri. 
1Kings16:30 Ahab, the son of Omri, did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did more evil things than any of the kings who had ruled before him." 
1Kings16:31 He thought it was only a small thing to commit the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Ahab also got married to Jezebel. She was Ethbaal's daughter. Ethbaal was king of the people of Sidon. Ahab began to serve the god Baal and worship him." 
1Kings16:32 He set up an altar to honor Baal. He set it up in the temple of Baal that he built in Samaria. 
1Kings16:33 Ahab also made a pole that was used to worship the goddess Asherah. He made the Lord very angry. He did more to make him angry than all of the kings of Israel had done before him. The Lord is the God of Israel. 
1Kings16:34 In Ahab's time, Hiel from Bethel rebuilt Jericho. When he laid its foundations, it cost him the life of his oldest son Abiram. When he set up its gates, it cost him the life of his youngest son Segub. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken it through Joshua, the son of Nun." 
1Kings16:34 In Ahab's time, Hiel from Bethel rebuilt Jericho. When he laid its foundations, it cost him the life of his oldest son Abiram. When he set up its gates, it cost him the life of his youngest son Segub. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken it through Joshua, the son of Nun." 
1Kings17:1 Elijah was from Tishbe in the land of Gilead. He said to Ahab, ""I serve the Lord. He is the God of Israel. You can be sure that he lives. And you can be just as sure that there won't be any dew or rain on the whole land. There won't be any during the next few years. It won't come until I say so.""" 
1Kings17:2 Then a message from the Lord came to Elijah. It said," 
1Kings17:3 Leave this place. Go east and hide in the Kerith Valley. It is east of the Jordan River. 
1Kings17:4 You will drink water from the brook. I have ordered some ravens to feed you there. 
1Kings17:5 So Elijah did what the Lord had told him to do. He went to the Kerith Valley. It was east of the Jordan River. He stayed there. 
1Kings17:6 The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning. They also brought him bread and meat in the evening. He drank water from the brook. 
1Kings17:7 Some time later the brook dried up. It hadn't rained in the land for quite a while. 
1Kings17:8 A message came to Elijah from the Lord. He said," 
1Kings17:9 Go right away to Zarephath in the territory of Sidon. Stay there. I have commanded a widow in that place to supply you with food. 
1Kings17:10 So Elijah went to Zarephath. He came to the town gate. A widow was there gathering sticks. He called out to her. He asked, ""Would you bring me a little water in a jar? I need a drink.""" 
1Kings17:11 She went to get the water. Then he called out to her, ""Please bring me a piece of bread too.""" 
1Kings17:12 I don't have any bread,"" she replied. ""And that's just as sure as the Lord your God is alive. All I have is a small amount of flour in a jar and a little olive oil in a jug. I'm gathering a few sticks to take home. I'll make one last meal for myself and my son. We'll eat it. After that, we'll die.""" 
1Kings17:13 Elijah said to her, ""Don't be afraid. Go home. Do what you have said. But first make a little bread for me. Make it out of what you have. Bring it to me. Then make some for yourself and your son." 
1Kings17:14 The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'The jar of flour will not be used up. The jug will always have oil in it. You will have flour and oil until the day the Lord sends rain on the land.' """ 
1Kings17:15 She went away and did what Elijah had told her to do. So Elijah had food every day. There was also food for the woman and her family. 
1Kings17:16 The jar of flour wasn't used up. The jug always had oil in it. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken that message through Elijah. 
1Kings17:17 Some time later the son of the woman who owned the house became sick. He got worse and worse. Finally he stopped breathing. 
1Kings17:18 The woman said to Elijah, ""You are a man of God. What do you have against me? Did you come to bring my sin out into the open? Did you come to kill my son?""" 
1Kings17:19 Give me your son,"" Elijah replied. He took him from her arms. He carried him to the upstairs room where he was staying. He put him down on his bed." 
1Kings17:20 Then Elijah cried out to the Lord. He said, ""Lord my God, I'm staying with this widow. Have you brought pain and sorrow to her? Have you caused her son to die?""" 
1Kings17:21 Then he lay down on the boy three times. He cried out to the Lord. He said, ""Lord my God, give this boy's life back to him!""" 
1Kings17:22 The Lord answered Elijah's prayer. He gave the boy's life back to him. So the boy lived. 
1Kings17:23 Elijah picked up the boy. He carried him down from the upstairs room into the house. He gave him to his mother. He said, ""Look! Your son is alive!""" 
1Kings17:24 Then the woman said to Elijah, ""Now I know that you are a man of God. I know that the message you have brought from the Lord is true.""" 
1Kings18:1 It was now three years since it had rained. A message came to Elijah from the Lord. He said, ""Go. Speak to Ahab. Then I will send rain on the land.""" 
1Kings18:2 So Elijah went to speak to Ahab. There wasn't enough food in Samaria. The people there were very hungry. 
1Kings18:3 Ahab had sent for Obadiah. He was in charge of Ahab's palace. Obadiah had great respect for the Lord. 
1Kings18:3 Ahab had sent for Obadiah. He was in charge of Ahab's palace. Obadiah had great respect for the Lord. 
1Kings18:4 Ahab's wife Jezebel had been killing off the Lord's prophets. So Obadiah had hidden 100 prophets in two caves. He had put 50 in each cave. He had supplied them with food and water. 
1Kings18:4 Ahab's wife Jezebel had been killing off the Lord's prophets. So Obadiah had hidden 100 prophets in two caves. He had put 50 in each cave. He had supplied them with food and water. 
1Kings18:5 Ahab had said to Obadiah, ""Go through the land. Go to all of the springs of water and to the valleys. Maybe we can find some grass there. It will keep the horses and mules alive. Then we won't have to kill any of our animals.""" 
1Kings18:5 Ahab had said to Obadiah, ""Go through the land. Go to all of the springs of water and to the valleys. Maybe we can find some grass there. It will keep the horses and mules alive. Then we won't have to kill any of our animals.""" 
1Kings18:6 So they decided where each of them would look. Ahab went in one direction. Obadiah went in another. 
1Kings18:6 So they decided where each of them would look. Ahab went in one direction. Obadiah went in another. 
1Kings18:7 As Obadiah was walking along, Elijah met him. Obadiah recognized him. He bowed down to the ground. He said, ""My master Elijah! Is it really you?""" 
1Kings18:7 As Obadiah was walking along, Elijah met him. Obadiah recognized him. He bowed down to the ground. He said, ""My master Elijah! Is it really you?""" 
1Kings18:8 Yes,"" he replied. ""Go and tell your master Ahab, 'Elijah is here.' """ 
1Kings18:9 What have I done wrong? asked Obadiah. Why are you handing me over to Ahab to be put to death? 
1Kings18:9 What have I done wrong? asked Obadiah. Why are you handing me over to Ahab to be put to death? 
1Kings18:10 My master has sent people to look for you everywhere. There isn't a nation or kingdom where he hasn't sent someone to look for you. Suppose a nation or kingdom would claim you weren't there. Then Ahab would make them take an oath and say they couldn't find you. And that's just as sure as the Lord your God is alive. 
1Kings18:11 But now you are telling me to go to my master. You want me to say, 'Elijah is here.'" 
1Kings18:12 But the Spirit of the Lord might carry you away when I leave you. Then I won't know where you are. If I go and tell Ahab and he doesn't find you, he'll kill me. ""But I've worshiped the Lord ever since I was young." 
1Kings18:13 My master, haven't you heard what I did? Jezebel was killing the Lord's prophets. But I hid 100 of them in two caves. I put 50 in each cave. I supplied them with food and water." 
1Kings18:14 And now you are telling me to go to my master Ahab. You want me to say to him, 'Elijah is here.' He'll kill me!""" 
1Kings18:15 Elijah said, ""I serve the Lord who rules over all. You can be sure that he lives. And you can be just as sure that I will speak to Ahab today.""" 
1Kings18:16 Obadiah went back to Ahab. He told Ahab that Elijah wanted to see him. So Ahab went to where Elijah was. 
1Kings18:16 Obadiah went back to Ahab. He told Ahab that Elijah wanted to see him. So Ahab went to where Elijah was. 
1Kings18:17 When he saw Elijah, he said to him, ""Is that you? You are always stirring up trouble in Israel.""" 
1Kings18:18 I haven't made trouble for Israel,"" Elijah replied. ""But you and your father's family have. You have turned away from the Lord's commands. You have followed the gods that are named after Baal." 
1Kings18:19 Now send for people from all over Israel. Tell them to meet me on Mount Carmel. And bring the 450 prophets of the god Baal. Also bring the 400 prophets of the goddess Asherah. All of them eat at Jezebel's table. 
1Kings18:20 So Ahab sent that message all through Israel. He gathered the prophets together on Mount Carmel. 
1Kings18:21 Elijah went there and stood in front of the people. He said, ""How long will it take you to make up your minds? If the Lord is the one and only God, follow him. But if Baal is the one and only God, follow him."" The people didn't say anything." 
1Kings18:22 Then Elijah said to them, ""I'm the only one of the Lord's prophets left. But Baal has 450 prophets." 
1Kings18:23 Get two bulls for us. Let Baal's prophets choose one for themselves. Let them cut it into pieces. Then let them put it on the wood. But don't let them set fire to it. I'll prepare the other bull. I'll put it on the wood. But I won't set fire to it. 
1Kings18:24 Then you pray to your god. And I'll pray to the Lord. The god who answers by sending fire down is the one and only God. Then all of the people said, ""What you are saying is good.""" 
1Kings18:25 Elijah spoke to the prophets of Baal. He said, ""Choose one of the bulls. There are many of you. So prepare your bull first. Pray to your god. But don't light the fire.""" 
1Kings18:26 So they prepared the bull they had been given. They prayed to Baal from morning until noon. Baal! Answer us! they shouted. But there wasn't any reply. No one answered. Then they danced around the altar they had made. 
1Kings18:27 At noon Elijah began to tease them. Shout louder! he said. I'm sure Baal is a god! Perhaps he has too much to think about. Or maybe he has gone to the toilet. Or perhaps he's away on a trip. Maybe he's sleeping. You might have to wake him up. 
1Kings18:28 So they shouted louder. They cut themselves with swords and spears until their blood flowed. That's what they usually did when things really looked hopeless. 
1Kings18:29 It was now past noon. The prophets of Baal continued to prophesy with all their might. They did it until the time came to offer the evening sacrifice. But there wasn't any reply. No one answered. No one paid any attention. 
1Kings18:30 Then Elijah said to all of the people, ""Come here to me."" So they went to him. He rebuilt the altar of the Lord. It had been destroyed." 
1Kings18:31 Elijah got 12 stones. There was one for each tribe in the family line of Jacob. The Lord's message had come to Jacob. It had said, ""Your name will be Israel.""" 
1Kings18:32 Elijah used the stones to build an altar in honor of the Lord. He dug a ditch around it. The ditch was large enough to hold 13 quarts of seeds. 
1Kings18:33 He arranged the wood for the fire. He cut the bull into pieces. He placed the pieces on the wood. Then he said to some of the people, ""Fill four large jars with water. Pour it on the offering and the wood."" So they did." 
1Kings18:34 Do it again,"" he said. So they did it again. ""Do it a third time,"" he ordered. And they did it the third time." 
1Kings18:35 The water ran down around the altar. It even filled the ditch. 
1Kings18:36 When it was time to offer the evening sacrifice, the prophet Elijah stepped forward. He prayed, ""Lord, you are the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel. Today let everyone know that you are God in Israel. Let them know I'm your servant. Let them know I've done all of these things because you commanded me to." 
1Kings18:37 Answer me. Lord, answer me. Then these people will know that you are the one and only God. They'll know that you are turning their hearts back to you again.""" 
1Kings18:38 The fire of the Lord came down. It burned up the sacrifice. It burned up the wood and the stones and the soil. It even licked up the water in the ditch. 
1Kings18:39 All of the people saw it. Then they fell down flat with their faces toward the ground. They cried out, ""The Lord is the one and only God! The Lord is the one and only God!""" 
1Kings18:40 Then Elijah commanded them, ""Grab hold of the prophets of Baal. Don't let a single one of them get away!"" So they grabbed them. Elijah had them brought down to the Kishon Valley. There he had them put to death." 
1Kings18:41 Elijah said to Ahab, ""Go. Eat and drink. I can hear the sound of a heavy rain.""" 
1Kings18:42 So Ahab went off to eat and drink. But Elijah climbed to the top of Mount Carmel. He bent down toward the ground. Then he put his face between his knees. 
1Kings18:43 Go and look toward the sea,"" he told his servant. So he went up and looked. ""I don't see anything there,"" he said. Seven times Elijah said, ""Go back.""" 
1Kings18:44 The seventh time the servant said, ""I see a cloud. It's as small as a man's hand. It's coming up over the sea."" Elijah said, ""Go to Ahab. Tell him, 'Tie your chariot to your horse. Go down to Jezreel before the rain stops you.' """ 
1Kings18:45 Black clouds filled the sky. The wind came up, and a heavy rain began to fall. Ahab rode off to Jezreel." 
1Kings18:46 The power of the Lord came on Elijah. He tucked his coat into his belt. And he ran ahead of Ahab all the way to Jezreel. 
1Kings19:1 Ahab told Jezebel everything Elijah had done. He told her how Elijah had killed all of the prophets with his sword. 
1Kings19:2 So Jezebel sent a message to Elijah. She said, ""You can be sure that I will kill you, just as I killed the other prophets. I'll do it by this time tomorrow. If I don't, may the gods punish me greatly.""" 
1Kings19:3 Elijah was afraid. So he ran for his life. He came to Beersheba in Judah. He left his servant there. 
1Kings19:4 Then he traveled for one day into the desert. He came to a small tree. He sat down under it. He prayed that he would die. Lord, I've had enough,"" he said. ""Take my life. I'm no better than my people of long ago.""" 
1Kings19:5 Then he lay down under the tree. And he fell asleep. Suddenly an angel touched him. The angel said, ""Get up and eat.""" 
1Kings19:6 Elijah looked around. Near his head he saw a flat cake of bread. It had been baked over hot coals. A jar of water was also there. So Elijah ate and drank. Then he lay down again. 
1Kings19:7 The angel of the Lord came to him a second time. He touched him and said, ""Get up and eat. Your journey will be long and hard.""" 
1Kings19:8 So he got up. He ate and drank. The food gave him new strength. He traveled for 40 days and 40 nights. He kept going until he arrived at Horeb. It was the mountain of God. 
1Kings19:9 There he went into a cave and spent the night. A message came to Elijah from the Lord. He said, ""Elijah, what are you doing here?""" 
1Kings19:10 He replied, ""Lord God who rules over all, I've been very committed to you. The people of Israel have turned their backs on your covenant. They have torn down your altars. They've put your prophets to death with their swords. I'm the only one left. And they are trying to kill me.""" 
1Kings19:11 The Lord said, ""Go out. Stand on the mountain in front of me. I am going to pass by."" As the Lord approached, a very powerful wind tore the mountains apart. It broke up the rocks. But the Lord wasn't in the wind. After the wind there was an earthquake. But the Lord wasn't in the earthquake." 
1Kings19:12 After the earthquake a fire came. But the Lord wasn't in the fire. And after the fire there was only a gentle whisper. 
1Kings19:13 When Elijah heard it, he pulled his coat over his face. He went out and stood at the entrance to the cave. Then a voice said to him, ""Elijah, what are you doing here?""" 
1Kings19:14 He replied, ""Lord God who rules over all, I've been very committed to you. The people of Israel have turned their backs on your covenant. They have torn down your altars. They've put your prophets to death with their swords. I'm the only one left. And they are trying to kill me.""" 
1Kings19:15 The Lord said to him, ""Go back the way you came. Go to the Desert of Damascus. When you get there, anoint Hazael as king over Aram." 
1Kings19:16 Also anoint Jehu as king over Israel. He is the son of Nimshi. And anoint Elisha from Abel Meholah as the next prophet after you. He is the son of Shaphat. 
1Kings19:17 Jehu will put to death anyone who escapes Hazael's sword. And Elisha will put to death anyone who escapes Jehu's sword. 
1Kings19:18 But I will keep 7,000 people in Israel for myself. They have not bowed down to Baal. And they have not kissed him.""" 
1Kings19:19 Elijah left Mount Horeb. He saw Elisha, the son of Shaphat. Elisha was plowing in a field. He was driving the last of 12 pairs of oxen. Elijah went up to him. He threw his coat around him." 
1Kings19:20 Then Elisha left his oxen. He ran after Elijah. Let me kiss my father and mother good-by,"" he said. ""Then I'll come with you."" ""Go back,"" Elijah replied. ""What have I done to you?""" 
1Kings19:21 So Elisha left him and went back. He got his two oxen and killed them. He burned the plow to cook the meat. He gave it to the people, and they ate it. Then he started to follow Elijah. He became Elijah's assistant." 
1Kings20:1 Ben-Hadad brought his whole army together. He was king of Aram. He went up to Samaria. He took 32 kings and their horses and chariots with him. All of them surrounded Samaria and attacked it. 
1Kings20:2 Ben-Hadad sent messengers into the city. They spoke to Ahab, the king of Israel. They told him, ""Ben-Hadad says," 
1Kings20:3 'Your silver and gold belong to me. The best of your wives and children also belong to me.' 
1Kings20:4 The king of Israel replied, ""What you say is true. You are my king and master. I belong to you. And everything I have belongs to you.""" 
1Kings20:5 The messengers came again. They told Ahab, ""Ben-Hadad says, 'I commanded you to give me your silver and gold. I also commanded you to give me your wives and children." 
1Kings20:6 But now I'm going to send my officials to you. They will come about this time tomorrow. They'll search your palace. They'll search the houses of your officials. They'll take everything you value. And they'll carry all of it away.' 
1Kings20:7 The king of Israel sent for all of the elders of the land. He said to them, ""This man is really looking for trouble! He sent for my wives and children. He sent for my silver and gold. And I agreed to give them to him.""" 
1Kings20:8 All of the elders and people answered, ""Don't listen to him. Don't agree to give him what he wants.""" 
1Kings20:9 So Ahab replied to Ben-Hadad's messengers. He said, ""Tell my king and master, 'I will do everything you commanded me to do the first time. But this time, I can't do what you want me to do.' "" They took Ahab's answer back to Ben-Hadad." 
1Kings20:10 Then Ben-Hadad sent another message to Ahab. It said, ""There won't be enough dust left in Samaria to give each of my followers even a handful. If there is, may the gods punish me greatly.""" 
1Kings20:11 The king of Israel replied. He said, ""Tell him, 'Someone who puts his armor on shouldn't brag like someone who takes it off.' """ 
1Kings20:12 Ben-Hadad and the kings were in their tents drinking. That's when he heard the message. He ordered his men, ""Get ready to attack."" So they prepared to attack the city." 
1Kings20:13 During that time a prophet came to Ahab, the king of Israel. He announced, ""The Lord says, 'Do you see this huge army? I will hand it over to you today. Then you will know that I am the Lord.' """ 
1Kings20:14 But who will do it? Ahab asked. The prophet answered, ""The Lord says, 'The young officers who are under the area commanders will do it.' "" ""And who will start the battle?"" he asked. The prophet answered, ""You will.""" 
1Kings20:15 So Ahab sent for the young officers who were under the area commanders. The total number of officers was 232. Ahab gathered together the rest of the men of Israel. The total number of them was 7,000." 
1Kings20:16 They started out at noon. At that time Ben-Hadad and the 32 kings who were helping him were in their tents. They were getting drunk. 
1Kings20:17 The young officers who were under Ahab's area commanders marched out first. Ben-Hadad had sent out scouts. They came back and reported, ""Men are marching against us from Samaria.""" 
1Kings20:18 Ben-Hadad said, ""They might be coming to make peace. If they are, take them alive. Or they might be coming to make war. If they are, take them alive.""" 
1Kings20:19 The young officers marched out of the city. The army was right behind them. 
1Kings20:20 Each man struck down the one who was fighting against him. When that happened, the army of Aram ran away. The men of Israel chased them. But Ben-Hadad, the king of Aram, escaped on a horse. Some of his horsemen escaped with him." 
1Kings20:21 The king of Israel attacked them. He overpowered the horses and chariots. Large numbers of the men of Aram were wounded or killed. 
1Kings20:22 After that, the prophet came to the king of Israel again. He said, ""Make your position stronger. Do what needs to be done. Next spring the king of Aram will attack you again.""" 
1Kings20:23 During that time, the officials of the king of Aram gave him advice. They said, ""The gods of Israel are gods of the hills. That's why they were too strong for us. But suppose we fight them on the flatlands. Then we'll certainly be stronger than they are." 
1Kings20:24 Here's what you should do. Don't let any of the kings continue as military leaders. Have other officers take their places. 
1Kings20:25 You must also put another army together. It should be just like the one you lost. It should have the same number of horses and chariots. Then we'll be able to fight against Israel on the flatlands. And we'll certainly be stronger than they are. Ben-Hadad agreed with their advice. He did what they suggested. 
1Kings20:26 The next spring Ben-Hadad brought together the men of Aram. They went up to the city of Aphek to fight against Israel. 
1Kings20:27 The men of Israel were also brought together. They were given supplies. They marched out to fight against their enemies. Israel's army camped across from Aram's army. The men of Israel looked like two small flocks of goats that had become separated from the others. But the men of Aram covered the countryside. 
1Kings20:28 The man of God came up to the king of Israel again. He told him, ""The Lord says, 'The men of Aram think I am a god of the hills. They do not think I am a god of the valleys. So I will hand their huge army over to you. Then you will know that I am the Lord.' """ 
1Kings20:29 For seven days the two armies camped across from each other. On the seventh day the battle began. The men of Israel wounded or killed 100,000 Aramean soldiers on foot. That happened in a single day." 
1Kings20:30 The rest of the men of Aram escaped to the city of Aphek. Its wall fell down on 27,000 of them. Ben-Hadad ran to the city. He hid in a secret room." 
1Kings20:31 His officials said to him, ""Look, we've heard that the kings of Israel's royal house often show mercy. So let's go to the king of Israel. Let's wear black clothes. Let's tie ropes around our heads. Perhaps Ahab will spare your life.""" 
1Kings20:32 So they wore black clothes. They tied ropes around their heads. Then they went to the king of Israel. They told him, ""Your servant Ben-Hadad says, 'Please let me live.' "" The king answered, ""Is he still alive? He used to be my friend.""" 
1Kings20:33 The men thought that was good news. So they quickly used the word Ahab had used. Yes! Your friend Ben-Hadad! they said. Go and get him,"" the king said. Ben-Hadad came out of the secret room. Then Ahab had him get into his chariot." 
1Kings20:34 I'll return the cities my father took from your father,"" Ben-Hadad offered. ""You can set up your own market areas in Damascus. That's what my father did in Samaria."" Ahab said, ""If we sign a peace treaty, I'll set you free."" So he made a treaty with him. Then Ahab let him go." 
1Kings20:35 There was a group that was called the company of the prophets. A message from the Lord came to one of their members. He said to his companion, ""Strike me down with your weapon."" But the man wouldn't do it." 
1Kings20:36 The prophet said, ""You haven't obeyed the Lord. So as soon as you leave me, a lion will kill you."" The companion went away. And a lion found him and killed him." 
1Kings20:37 The prophet found another man. He said, ""Please strike me down."" So the man struck him down and wounded him." 
1Kings20:38 Then the prophet went and stood by the road. He waited for the king to come by. He pulled his headband down over his eyes so no one would recognize him. 
1Kings20:39 The king passed by. Then the prophet called out to him. He said, ""I went into the middle of the battle. Someone came to me with a prisoner. He said, 'Guard this man. Don't let him get away. If he does, you will pay for his life with yours. Or you can pay 75 pounds of silver.'" 
1Kings20:40 While I was busy here and there, the man disappeared."" ""That's your sentence,"" the king of Israel told him. ""You have said so yourself.""" 
1Kings20:41 Then the prophet quickly removed the headband from his eyes. The king of Israel recognized him as one of the prophets. 
1Kings20:42 He told the king, ""The Lord says, 'You have set a man free. But I had said he should be set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. So you must pay for his life with yours. You must pay for his people's lives with the lives of your people.' """ 
1Kings20:43 The king of Israel was angry. He was in a bad mood. He went back to his palace in Samaria. 
1Kings21:1 Some time later King Ahab wanted a certain vineyard. It belonged to Naboth from Jezreel. The vineyard was in Jezreel. It was close to the palace of Ahab, the king of Samaria." 
1Kings21:2 Ahab said to Naboth, ""Let me have your vineyard. It's close to my palace. I want to use it for a vegetable garden. I'll trade you a better vineyard for it. Or, if you prefer, I'll pay you what it's worth.""" 
1Kings21:3 But Naboth replied, ""May the Lord keep me from giving you the land my family handed down to me.""" 
1Kings21:4 So Ahab went home. He was angry. He was in a bad mood because of what Naboth from Jezreel had said. He had told him, ""I won't give you the land my family handed down to me."" So Ahab lay on his bed. He was in a very bad mood. He wouldn't even eat anything." 
1Kings21:5 His wife Jezebel came in. She asked him, ""Why are you in such a bad mood? Why won't you eat anything?""" 
1Kings21:6 He answered her, ""Because I spoke to Naboth from Jezreel. I said, 'Sell me your vineyard. Or, if you prefer, I'll give you another vineyard in its place.' But he said, 'I won't sell you my vineyard.' """ 
1Kings21:7 His wife Jezebel said, ""Is this how the king of Israel acts? Get up! Eat something! Cheer up. I'll get you the vineyard of Naboth from Jezreel.""" 
1Kings21:8 So she wrote some letters in Ahab's name. She stamped them with his seal. Then she sent them to the elders and nobles who lived in the city where Naboth lived. 
1Kings21:9 In those letters she wrote, ""Announce a day when people are supposed to go without eating. Have Naboth sit in an important place among the people." 
1Kings21:10 But put two worthless and evil men in seats across from him. Have them witness to the fact that he has called down curses on God and the king. Then take him out of the city. Kill him by throwing stones at him. 
1Kings21:11 So the elders and nobles who lived in that city did what Jezebel wanted. They did everything she directed in the letters she had written to them. 
1Kings21:12 They announced a day of fasting. They had Naboth sit in an important place among the people. 
1Kings21:13 Then two worthless and evil men came and sat across from him. They brought charges against Naboth in front of the people. The two men said, ""Naboth has called down curses on God and the king."" So they took him outside the city. They killed him by throwing stones at him." 
1Kings21:14 Then they sent a message to Jezebel. They said, ""Naboth is dead. We killed him by throwing stones at him.""" 
1Kings21:15 Jezebel heard that Naboth had been killed. As soon as she heard it, she said to Ahab, ""Get up. Take over the vineyard of Naboth from Jezreel. It's the one he wouldn't sell to you. He isn't alive anymore. He's dead.""" 
1Kings21:16 Ahab heard that Naboth was dead. So he got up. He went down to take over Naboth's vineyard. 
1Kings21:17 Then a message from the Lord came to Elijah, who was from Tishbe. It said," 
1Kings21:18 Go down to see Ahab, the king of Israel. He rules in Samaria. You will find him in Naboth's vineyard. He has gone there to take it over." 
1Kings21:19 Tell him, 'The Lord says, ""Haven't you murdered a man? Haven't you taken over his property?"" ' Then tell him, 'The Lord says, ""Dogs licked up Naboth's blood. In that same place dogs will lick up your blood. Yes, I said your blood!"" ' """ 
1Kings21:20 Ahab said to Elijah, ""My enemy! You have found me!"" ""I have found you,"" he answered. ""That's because you gave yourself over to do evil things. You did what was evil in the sight of the Lord." 
1Kings21:21 So the Lord says, 'I am going to bring horrible trouble on you. I will destroy your children after you. I will cut off every male in Israel who is related to you. It does not matter whether they are slaves or free." 
1Kings21:22 I will make your royal house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. I will make it like the house of Baasha, the son of Ahijah. You have made me very angry. You have caused Israel to commit sin.'" 
1Kings21:23 The Lord also says, 'Dogs will eat up Jezebel near the wall of Jezreel.'" 
1Kings21:24 Some of the people who belong to Ahab will die in the city. Dogs will eat them up. Others will die in the country. The birds of the air will eat them. 
1Kings21:25 There was never anyone like Ahab. He gave himself over to do what was evil in the sight of the Lord. His wife Jezebel talked him into it. 
1Kings21:26 He acted in the most evil way. He worshiped statues of gods. He was like the Amorites. The Lord drove them out to make room for Israel. 
1Kings21:27 When Ahab heard what Elijah had said, he tore his clothes. He put on black clothes. He went without eating. He even slept in his clothes. He went around looking sad." 
1Kings21:28 Then a message from the Lord came to Elijah, who was from Tishbe. It said," 
1Kings21:29 Have you seen how Ahab has made himself low in my sight? Because he has done that, I will not bring trouble on him while he lives. But I will bring it on his royal house when his son is king.""" 
1Kings22:1 For three years there wasn't any war between Aram and Israel. 
1Kings22:2 In the third year Jehoshaphat went down to see Ahab, the king of Israel. Jehoshaphat was king of Judah." 
1Kings22:3 The king of Israel had spoken to his officials. He had said, ""Don't you know that Ramoth Gilead belongs to us? And we aren't even doing anything to take it back from the king of Aram.""" 
1Kings22:4 So Ahab asked Jehoshaphat, ""Will you go with me to fight against Ramoth Gilead?"" Jehoshaphat replied to the king of Israel, ""Yes. I'll go with you. My men will go with you. My horses will also go with you.""" 
1Kings22:5 Jehoshaphat continued, ""First ask the Lord for advice.""" 
1Kings22:6 So the king of Israel brought about 400 prophets together. He asked them, ""Should I go to war against Ramoth Gilead? Or should I stay here?"" ""Go,"" they answered. ""The Lord will hand it over to you.""" 
1Kings22:7 But Jehoshaphat asked, ""Isn't there a prophet of the Lord here? If there is, ask him what we should do.""" 
1Kings22:8 The king of Israel answered Jehoshaphat. He said, ""There is still one other man we can go to. We can ask the Lord for advice through him. But I hate him. He never prophesies anything good about me. He only prophesies bad things. His name is Micaiah. He's the son of Imlah."" ""You shouldn't say bad things about him,"" Jehoshaphat replied." 
1Kings22:9 So the king of Israel called for one of his officials. He told him, ""Bring Micaiah, the son of Imlah, at once.""" 
1Kings22:10 The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were wearing their royal robes. They were sitting on their thrones at the threshing floor. It was near the entrance of the gate of Samaria. All of the prophets were prophesying in front of them." 
1Kings22:11 Zedekiah was the son of Kenaanah. Zedekiah had made horns out of iron. They looked like animal horns. He announced, ""The Lord says, 'With these horns you will drive back the men of Aram until they are destroyed.' """ 
1Kings22:12 All of the other prophets were prophesying the same thing. Attack Ramoth Gilead,"" they said. ""Win the battle over it. The Lord will hand it over to you.""" 
1Kings22:13 A messenger went to get Micaiah. He said to him, ""Look. The other prophets agree. All of them are saying the king will have success. So agree with them. Say the same thing they do.""" 
1Kings22:14 But Micaiah said, ""You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that I can only tell the king what the Lord tells me to say.""" 
1Kings22:15 When Micaiah arrived, the king spoke to him. He asked, ""Should we go to war against Ramoth Gilead? Or should I stay here?"" ""Attack,"" he answered. ""You will win. The Lord will hand Ramoth Gilead over to you.""" 
1Kings22:16 The king said to him, ""I've made you promise to tell the truth many times before. So don't tell me anything but the truth in the name of the Lord.""" 
1Kings22:17 Then Micaiah answered, ""I saw all of the people of Israel scattered on the hills. They were like sheep that didn't have a shepherd. The Lord said, 'These people do not have a master. Let each of them go home in peace.' """ 
1Kings22:18 The king of Israel spoke to Jehoshaphat. He said, ""Didn't I tell you he never prophesies anything good about me? He only prophesies bad things.""" 
1Kings22:19 Micaiah continued, ""Listen to the Lord's message. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne. Some of the angels of heaven were standing at his right side. The others were standing at his left side. So all of them were standing around him." 
1Kings22:20 The Lord said, 'Who will try to get Ahab to attack Ramoth Gilead? I want him to die there.' ""One angel suggested one thing. Another suggested something else." 
1Kings22:21 Finally, a spirit came forward and stood in front of the Lord. The spirit said, 'I'll try to get Ahab to do it.'" 
1Kings22:22  'How?' the Lord asked. The spirit said, 'I'll go out and put lies in the mouths of all of his prophets.' "" 'You will have success in getting Ahab to attack Ramoth Gilead,' said the Lord. 'Go and do it.'" 
1Kings22:23 So the Lord has put lies in the mouths of all of your prophets. He has said that great harm will come to you. 
1Kings22:24 Then Zedekiah, the son of Kenaanah, went up and slapped Micaiah in the face. ""So you think the spirit that was sent by the Lord went away from me to speak to you, do you?"" he asked. ""Which way did he go?""" 
1Kings22:25 Micaiah replied, ""You will find out on the day you go to hide in an inside room to save your life.""" 
1Kings22:26 Then the king of Israel gave an order. He said, ""Take Micaiah away. Send him back to Amon. Amon is the ruler of the city of Samaria. And send him back to Joash. Joash is a member of the royal court." 
1Kings22:27 Tell him, 'The king says, ""Put this fellow in prison. Don't give him anything but bread and water until I return safely."" ' """ 
1Kings22:28 Micaiah announced, ""Do you really think you will return safely? If you do, the Lord hasn't spoken through me."" He continued, ""All of you people, remember what I've said!""" 
1Kings22:29 So the king of Israel went up to Ramoth Gilead. Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, went there too." 
1Kings22:30 The king of Israel spoke to Jehoshaphat. He said, ""I'll go into battle wearing different clothes. Then people won't recognize me. But you wear your royal robes."" So the king of Israel put on different clothes. Then he went into battle." 
1Kings22:31 The king of Aram had given an order to his 32 chariot commanders. He had said, ""Fight only against the king of Israel. Don't fight against anyone else.""" 
1Kings22:32 The chariot commanders saw Jehoshaphat. They thought, ""That has to be the king of Israel."" So they turned to attack him. But Jehoshaphat cried out." 
1Kings22:33 Then the commanders saw he wasn't the king of Israel after all. So they stopped chasing him. 
1Kings22:34 But someone shot an arrow without taking aim. The arrow hit the king of Israel between the parts of his armor. The king told his chariot driver, ""Turn the chariot around. Get me out of this battle. I've been wounded.""" 
1Kings22:35 All day long the battle continued. The king kept himself standing up by leaning against the inside of his chariot. He kept his face toward the men of Aram. The blood from his wound ran down onto the floor of the chariot. That evening he died. 
1Kings22:36 As the sun was setting, a cry spread through the army. ""Every man must go to his own town!"" they said. ""Everyone must go to his own land!""" 
1Kings22:37 So the king died. He was brought to Samaria. They buried his body there. 
1Kings22:38 They washed the chariot at a pool in Samaria. It was where the prostitutes took baths. The dogs licked up Ahab's blood. It happened exactly as the Lord had said it would. 
1Kings22:39 The other events of Ahab's rule are written down. Everything he did is written down. That includes the palace he built and decorated with ivory. It also includes the cities he built up and put high walls around. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
1Kings22:40 Ahab joined the members of his family who had already died. His son Ahaziah became the next king after him. 
1Kings22:41 Jehoshaphat began to rule over Judah. It was in the fourth year that Ahab was king of Israel. Jehoshaphat was the son of Asa. 
1Kings22:42 Jehoshaphat was 35 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 25 years. His mother's name was Azubah. She was the daughter of Shilhi. 
1Kings22:43 Jehoshaphat followed all of the ways of his father Asa. He didn't wander away from them. He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. But the high places weren't removed. The people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense at them. 
1Kings22:44 Jehoshaphat was also at peace with the king of Israel. 
1Kings22:45 The other events of Jehoshaphat's rule are written down. The brave things he did in battle and everything else he accomplished are written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
1Kings22:46 Jehoshaphat got rid of the rest of the male prostitutes who were at the temples. They had remained in the land even after the rule of his father Asa. 
1Kings22:47 At that time Edom didn't have a king. An appointed official was in charge. 
1Kings22:48 Jehoshaphat built many ships that he used to carry goods to be traded. The ships were supposed to go to Ophir for gold. But they never had a chance to sail. They were wrecked at Ezion Geber. 
1Kings22:49 At that time Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, spoke to Jehoshaphat. He said, ""Let my men sail with yours."" But Jehoshaphat refused." 
1Kings22:50 Jehoshaphat joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the family tomb in the city of King David. His son Jehoram became the next king after him. 
1Kings22:51 Ahaziah became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 17th year that Jehoshaphat was king of Judah. Ahaziah ruled over Israel for two years. He was the son of Ahab. 
1Kings22:52 Ahaziah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He lived the way his father and mother had lived. He lived the way Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had lived. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit sin." 
1Kings22:53 Ahaziah served and worshiped the god Baal. He made the Lord, the God of Israel, very angry. That's exactly what his father had done." 
2Kings1:1 After Ahab died, Moab refused to remain under Israel's control." 
2Kings1:2 Ahaziah had fallen through the window of his upstairs room in Samaria. He had hurt himself. So he sent messengers to ask the god Baal-Zebub for advice. Baal-Zebub was the god of the city of Ekron. Ahaziah said to the messengers, ""Go and ask Baal-Zebub whether I will get well again.""" 
2Kings1:3 But the angel of the Lord spoke to Elijah, who was from Tishbe. He said, ""Go up to see the messengers of Ahaziah, the king of Samaria. Tell them, 'You are on your way to ask Baal-Zebub for advice. He is the god of Ekron. Are you going to that god because you think there is no God in Israel?'" 
2Kings1:4 The Lord says to Ahaziah, 'You will never leave the bed you are lying on. You can be sure that you will die!' "" So Elijah went to see the messengers." 
2Kings1:5 They returned to the king. He asked them, ""Why have you come back?""" 
2Kings1:6 A man met us on our way there,"" they replied. ""He said to us, 'Go back to the king who sent you. Tell him, ""The Lord says, 'You are sending messengers to ask Baal-Zebub for advice. He is the god of Ekron. Are you going to that god because you think there is no God in Israel? You will never leave the bed you are lying on. You can be sure that you will die!' "" ' """ 
2Kings1:7 The king asked them, ""What kind of man came to see you? Who told you those things?""" 
2Kings1:8 They replied, ""He was wearing clothes that were made out of hair. He had a leather belt around his waist."" The king said, ""That was Elijah from Tishbe.""" 
2Kings1:9 Then Ahaziah sent a captain to Elijah. The captain had his company of 50 men with him. Elijah was sitting on top of a hill. The captain went up to him. He said to Elijah, ""Man of God, the king says, 'Come down!' """ 
2Kings1:10 Elijah answered the captain, ""If I'm really a man of God, may fire come down from heaven! May it burn you and your 50 men up!"" Then fire came down from heaven. It burned up the captain and his men." 
2Kings1:11 After that happened, the king sent another captain to Elijah. The captain had his 50 men with him. He said to Elijah, ""Man of God, the king says, 'Come down at once!' """ 
2Kings1:12 Elijah replied, ""If I'm really a man of God, may fire come down from heaven! May it burn you and your 50 men up!"" Then the fire of God came down from heaven. It burned up the captain and his 50 men." 
2Kings1:13 So the king sent a third captain with his 50 men. The captain went up to Elijah. He fell on his knees in front of him. Man of God,"" he begged, ""please have respect for my life! Please have respect for the lives of these 50 men!" 
2Kings1:14 Fire has come down from heaven. It has burned up the first two captains and all of their men. But please have respect for my life! 
2Kings1:15 The angel of the Lord spoke to Elijah. He said, ""Go down with him. Don't be afraid of him."" So Elijah got up. He went down with the captain to the king." 
2Kings1:16 Elijah told the king, ""The Lord says, 'You have sent messengers to ask Baal-Zebub for advice. He is the god of Ekron. Did you go to that god for advice because you think there is no God in Israel? You will never leave the bed you are lying on. You can be sure that you will die!' """ 
2Kings1:17 So Ahaziah died. It happened just as the Lord had said it would. He had spoken that message through Elijah. Ahaziah didn't have any sons. So Joram, his younger brother, became the next king after him. It was the second year of Jehoram, the king of Judah. Jehoram was the son of Jehoshaphat." 
2Kings1:18 All of the other events of Ahaziah's rule are written down. The things he did are written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings2:1 Elijah and Elisha were on their way from Gilgal. The Lord was going to use a strong wind to take Elijah up to heaven. 
2Kings2:2 Elijah said to Elisha, ""Stay here. The Lord has sent me to Bethel."" But Elisha said, ""I won't leave you. And that's just as sure as the Lord and you are alive."" So they went down to Bethel." 
2Kings2:3 There was a company of prophets at Bethel. They came out to where Elisha was. They asked him, ""Do you know what the Lord is going to do? He's going to take your master away from you today."" ""Yes, I know,"" Elisha replied. ""But don't talk about it.""" 
2Kings2:4 Then Elijah said to him, ""Stay here, Elisha. The Lord has sent me to Jericho."" Elisha replied, ""I won't leave you. And that's just as sure as the Lord and you are alive."" So they went to Jericho." 
2Kings2:5 There was a company of prophets at Jericho. They went up to where Elisha was. They asked him, ""Do you know what the Lord is going to do? He's going to take your master away from you today."" ""Yes, I know,"" Elisha replied. ""But don't talk about it.""" 
2Kings2:6 Then Elijah said to him, ""Stay here. The Lord has sent me to the Jordan River."" Elisha replied, ""I won't leave you. And that's just as sure as the Lord and you are alive."" So the two of them walked on." 
2Kings2:7 Fifty men from the company of the prophets followed them. The men stopped and stood not far away from them. They faced the place where Elijah and Elisha had stopped at the Jordan River. 
2Kings2:8 Elijah rolled his coat up. Then he struck the water with it. The water parted to the right and to the left. The two of them went across the river on dry ground. 
2Kings2:9 After they had gone across, Elijah spoke to Elisha. He said, ""Tell me. What can I do for you before I'm taken away from you?"" ""Please give me a double share of your spirit,"" Elisha replied." 
2Kings2:10 You have asked me for something I can't give you,"" Elijah said. ""Only the Lord can give it. But suppose you see me when I'm taken away from you. Then you will receive what you have asked for. If you don't see me, you won't receive it.""" 
2Kings2:11 They kept walking along and talking together. Suddenly a chariot and horses appeared. Fire was all around them. The chariot and horses came between the two men. Then Elijah went up to heaven in a strong wind. 
2Kings2:12 Elisha saw it. He cried out to Elijah, ""My father! You are like a father to me! You are the true chariots and horsemen of Israel!"" Elisha didn't see Elijah anymore. Then Elisha took hold of his own clothes and tore them apart." 
2Kings2:13 He picked up the coat that had fallen from Elijah. He went back and stood on the bank of the Jordan River. 
2Kings2:14 Then he struck the water with Elijah's coat. Where is the power of the Lord? he asked. Where is the power of the God of Elijah? When Elisha struck the water, it parted to the right and to the left. He went across the river." 
2Kings2:15 The company of the prophets from Jericho were watching. They said, ""The spirit of Elijah has been given to Elisha."" They went over to him. They bowed down to him with their faces toward the ground." 
2Kings2:16 Look,"" they said. ""We have 50 able men. Let them go and look for your master. Perhaps the Spirit of the Lord has lifted him up. Maybe he has put him down on a mountain or in a valley."" ""No,"" Elisha replied. ""Don't send them.""" 
2Kings2:17 But they kept asking until he felt he couldn't say no. So he said, ""Send them."" And they sent 50 men. They looked for Elijah for three days. But they didn't find him." 
2Kings2:18 So they returned to Elisha. He was staying in Jericho. Elisha said to them, ""Didn't I tell you not to go?""" 
2Kings2:19 The men of Jericho spoke to Elisha. Look,"" they said. ""This town has a good location. You can see that for yourself. But the spring of water here is bad. So the land doesn't produce anything.""" 
2Kings2:20 Bring me a new bowl,"" Elisha said. ""Put some salt in it."" So they brought it to him." 
2Kings2:21 Then he went out to the spring. He threw the salt into it. He told them, ""The Lord says, 'I have made this water pure. It will never cause death again. It will never keep the land from producing crops again.' """ 
2Kings2:22 The water has stayed pure to this very day. That's what Elisha had said would happen. 
2Kings2:23 Elisha left Jericho and went up to Bethel. He was walking along the road. Some young fellows came out of the town. They made fun of him. Go on up! You don't even have any hair on your head! they said. Go on up! You don't even have any hair on your head! 
2Kings2:24 He turned around and looked at them. And he called down a curse on them. He did it in the name of the Lord. Then two bears came out of the woods. They attacked 42 of the young fellows. 
2Kings2:25 Elisha went on to Mount Carmel. From there he returned to Samaria. 
2Kings3:1 Joram became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 18th year that Jehoshaphat was king of Judah. Joram ruled for 12 years. He was the son of Ahab. 
2Kings3:2 Joram did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. But he wasn't as bad as his father and mother had been. His father had made a sacred stone that was used to worship the god Baal. Joram got rid of it. 
2Kings3:3 But he kept on committing the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. Jeroboam had also caused Israel to commit those same sins. Joram didn't turn away from them." 
2Kings3:4 Mesha raised sheep. He was king of Moab. He had to supply the king of Israel with 100,000 lambs a year. He also had to supply him with the wool of 100,000 rams a year." 
2Kings3:5 Ahab died. Moab's king refused to obey the next king of Israel. 
2Kings3:6 So at that time King Joram started out from Samaria. He gathered all of Israel's troops together. 
2Kings3:7 He also sent a message to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. It said, ""The king of Moab is refusing to obey me. Will you go with me to fight against Moab?"" ""Yes. I'll go with you,"" he replied. ""My men will go with you. My horses will also go with you.""" 
2Kings3:8 What road should we take to attack Moab? Joram asked. The one that goes through the Desert of Edom,"" Jehoshaphat answered." 
2Kings3:9 So the king of Israel started out. The king of Judah and the king of Edom went with him. Their armies marched around the southern end of the Dead Sea. After seven days they ran out of water. There wasn't any water for the men or their animals. 
2Kings3:10 What should we do now? exclaimed the king of Israel. The Lord has called us three kings together. Did he do it only to hand us over to Moab? 
2Kings3:11 But Jehoshaphat asked, ""Isn't there a prophet of the Lord here? Can't we ask the Lord for advice through him?"" An officer of the king of Israel spoke up. He answered, ""Elisha is here. He's the son of Shaphat. Elisha used to serve Elijah.""" 
2Kings3:12 Jehoshaphat said, ""The Lord speaks through him."" So the king of Israel went down to see Elisha. Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom also went there." 
2Kings3:13 Elisha spoke to the king of Israel. He said, ""What do you and I have in common? Go to your father's prophets. Go to your mother's prophets."" ""No,"" the king of Israel answered. ""The Lord called us three kings together. He did it to hand us over to Moab.""" 
2Kings3:14 Elisha said, ""I serve the Lord who rules over all. You can be sure that he lives. And you can be just as sure that I have respect for Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. If I didn't, I wouldn't look at you or even notice you." 
2Kings3:15 But now bring me someone who plays the harp. While that person was playing the harp, the Lord's powerful hand came on Elisha." 
2Kings3:16 Elisha announced, ""The Lord says, 'Dig a lot of ditches in this valley.'" 
2Kings3:17 Do it because the Lord says, 'You will not see wind or rain. But this valley will be filled with water. Then you, your cattle and your other animals will have water to drink.'" 
2Kings3:18 That's an easy thing for the Lord to do. He will also hand Moab over to you. 
2Kings3:19 You will destroy every city that has high walls around it. You will destroy every major town. You will cut down every good tree. You will stop up all of the springs of water. And you will cover every good field with stones. 
2Kings3:20 The next day, the time came to offer the morning sacrifice. And then it happened! Water was flowing from the direction of Edom! In fact, the land was filled with water!" 
2Kings3:21 Now all of the people of Moab had heard that the kings had come to fight against them. So Moab sent for all of its fighting men. It didn't matter whether they were young or old. They sent for everyone who could carry a weapon. All of them were stationed at the border. 
2Kings3:22 They got up early in the morning. The sun was already shining on the water. Across the way, the water looked red to the men of Moab. It looked like blood." 
2Kings3:23 That's blood! they said. Those kings must have fought and killed each other. Let's go, Moab! Let's take everything that has any value.""" 
2Kings3:24 So the men of Moab went to the camp of Israel. Just as they arrived there, the men of Israel got ready to fight. They fought against the men of Moab until they ran away. The men of Israel marched into the land and attacked it. They killed the people of Moab." 
2Kings3:25 They destroyed the towns. Each man threw a large stone on every good field. They did that until the fields were covered. They stopped up all of the springs of water. And they cut down every good tree. The only town that was left with any stones in place was Kir Hareseth. But men who were armed with slings surrounded it. Then they attacked it. 
2Kings3:26 The king of Moab saw that the battle had gone against him. So he took with him 700 men who had swords. They tried to break through the battle lines to the king of Edom. But they couldn't do it. 
2Kings3:27 Then the king of Moab got his oldest son. He was the son who would become the next king after him. He offered his son as a sacrifice on the city wall. That shocked and terrified the men of Israel. So they pulled back. And they returned to their own land. 
2Kings4:1 The wife of a man from the company of the prophets cried out to Elisha. She said, ""My husband is dead. You know how much respect he had for the Lord. But he owed money to someone. And now that person is coming to take my two boys away. They will become his slaves.""" 
2Kings4:2 Elisha replied to her, ""How can I help you? Tell me. What do you have in your house?"" ""I don't have anything there at all,"" she said. ""All I have is a little olive oil.""" 
2Kings4:3 Elisha said, ""Go around to all of your neighbors. Ask them for empty jars. Get as many as you can." 
2Kings4:4 Then go inside your house. Shut the door behind you and your sons. Pour oil into all of the jars. As each jar is filled, put it over to one side.""" 
2Kings4:5 The woman left him. After that, she shut the door behind her and her sons. They brought the jars to her. And she kept pouring." 
2Kings4:6 When all of the jars were full, she spoke to one of her sons. She said, ""Bring me another jar."" But he replied, ""There aren't any more left."" Then the oil stopped flowing." 
2Kings4:7 She went and told the man of God about it. He said, ""Go and sell the oil. Pay what you owe. You and your sons can live on what is left.""" 
2Kings4:8 One day Elisha went to the town of Shunem. A rich woman lived there. She begged him to stay and have a meal. So every time he came by, he stopped there to eat." 
2Kings4:9 The woman said to her husband, ""That man often comes by here. I know that he is a holy man of God." 
2Kings4:10 Let's make a small room for him on the roof. We'll put a bed and a table in it. We'll also put a chair and a lamp in it. Then he can stay there when he comes to visit us. 
2Kings4:11 One day Elisha came. He went up to his room. He lay down there. 
2Kings4:12 He said to his servant Gehazi, ""Go and get the Shunammite woman."" So he did. She stood in front of Elisha." 
2Kings4:13 He said to Gehazi, ""Tell her, 'You have gone to a lot of trouble for us. Now what can we do for you? Can we speak to the king for you? Or can we speak to the commander of the army for you?' "" She replied, ""I live among my own people. I have everything I need here.""" 
2Kings4:14 After she left, Elisha asked Gehazi, ""What can we do for her?"" Gehazi said, ""Well, she doesn't have a son. And her husband is old.""" 
2Kings4:15 Then Elisha said, ""Bring her here again."" So he did. She stood in the doorway." 
2Kings4:16 You will hold a son in your arms,"" Elisha said. ""It will be about this time next year."" ""No, my master!"" she objected. ""You are a man of God. So don't lie to me!""" 
2Kings4:17 But the woman became pregnant. She had a baby boy. It happened the next year about that same time. That's exactly what Elisha had told her would happen. 
2Kings4:18 The child grew. One day he went out to get his father. His father was with those who were gathering the crops. 
2Kings4:19 The boy said to his father, ""My head hurts! It really hurts!"" His father told a servant, ""Carry him to his mother.""" 
2Kings4:20 The servant lifted the boy up. He carried him to his mother. The boy sat on her lap until noon. Then he died. 
2Kings4:21 She went up to the room on the roof. There she laid him on the bed of the man of God. Then she shut the door and went out. 
2Kings4:22 She sent for her husband. She said, ""Please send me one of the servants and a donkey. Then I can go quickly to the man of God and return.""" 
2Kings4:23 Why do you want to go to him today? he asked. It isn't the time for the New Moon Feast. It isn't the Sabbath day. Don't let that bother you,"" she said." 
2Kings4:24 She put a saddle on her donkey. She said to her servant, ""Let's go. Don't slow down for me unless I tell you to.""" 
2Kings4:25 So she started out. She came to Mount Carmel. That's where the man of God was. When she was still a long way off, he saw her coming. He said to his servant Gehazi, ""Look! There's the woman from Shunem!" 
2Kings4:26 Run out there to meet her. Ask her, 'Are you all right? Is your husband all right? Is your child all right?' "" ""Everything is all right,"" she said." 
2Kings4:27 She came to the man of God at the mountain. Then she took hold of his feet. Gehazi came over to push her away. But the man of God said, ""Leave her alone! She is suffering terribly. But the Lord hasn't told me the reason for it. He has hidden it from me.""" 
2Kings4:28 My master, did I ask you for a son?"" she said. ""Didn't I tell you, 'Don't get my hopes up'?""" 
2Kings4:29 Elisha said to Gehazi, ""Tuck your coat into your belt. Take my wooden staff and run to Shunem. Don't say hello to anyone you see. If anyone says hello to you, don't answer. Lay my staff on the boy's face.""" 
2Kings4:30 But the child's mother said, ""I won't leave you. And that's just as sure as the Lord and you are alive."" So Elisha got up and followed her." 
2Kings4:31 Gehazi went on ahead. He laid Elisha's wooden staff on the boy's face. But there wasn't any sound. The boy didn't move at all. So Gehazi went back to Elisha. He told him, ""The boy hasn't awakened.""" 
2Kings4:32 Elisha arrived at the house. The boy was dead. He was lying on Elisha's bed. 
2Kings4:33 Elisha went into the room. He shut the door. He was alone with the boy. He prayed to the Lord. 
2Kings4:34 Then he got on the bed. He lay down on the boy. His mouth touched the boy's mouth. His eyes touched the boy's eyes. And his hands touched the boy's hands. As Elisha lay on the boy, the boy's body grew warm." 
2Kings4:35 Elisha turned away. He walked back and forth in the room. Then he got on the bed again. He lay down on the boy once more. The boy sneezed seven times. After that, he opened his eyes." 
2Kings4:36 Elisha sent for Gehazi. He said to him, ""Go and get the Shunammite woman."" So he did. When she came, Elisha said, ""Take your son.""" 
2Kings4:37 She came in. She fell at Elisha's feet. She bowed down with her face toward the ground. Then she took her son and went out. 
2Kings4:38 Elisha returned to Gilgal. There wasn't enough food to eat in that area. The company of the prophets was meeting with Elisha. So he said to his servant, ""Put the large pot over the fire. Cook some stew for these men.""" 
2Kings4:39 One of them went out into the fields to gather herbs. He found a wild vine. He gathered up some of its gourds. He brought them back with him in his coat. Then he cut them up into the pot of stew. But no one knew what they were. 
2Kings4:40 The stew was poured out for the men. They began to eat it. But then they cried out, ""Man of God, the food in that pot will kill us!"" They couldn't eat it." 
2Kings4:41 Elisha said, ""Get some flour."" He put it in the pot. He said, ""Serve it to the men to eat."" Then there wasn't anything in the pot that could harm them." 
2Kings4:42 A man came from Baal Shalishah. He brought the man of God 20 loaves of barley bread. They had been baked from the first grain that had ripened. He also brought some heads of new grain. Give this food to the people to eat,"" Elisha said." 
2Kings4:43 How can I put this in front of 100 men? his servant asked. But Elisha answered, ""Give it to the people to eat. Do it because the Lord says, 'They will eat and have some left over.' """ 
2Kings4:44 Then the servant put the food in front of them. They ate it and had some left over. It happened just as the Lord had said it would. 
2Kings5:1 Naaman was commander of the army of the king of Aram. He was a very important man in the eyes of his master. And he was highly respected. That's because the Lord had helped him win the battle over Aram's enemies. He was a brave soldier. But he had a skin disease. 
2Kings5:2 Companies of soldiers from Aram had marched out. They had captured a young girl from Israel. She became a servant of Naaman's wife. 
2Kings5:3 She spoke to the woman she was serving. She said, ""I wish my master would go and see the prophet who is in Samaria. He would heal my master of his skin disease.""" 
2Kings5:4 Naaman went to see his own master. He told him what the girl from Israel had said. 
2Kings5:5 I think you should go,"" the king of Aram replied. ""I'll give you a letter to take to the king of Israel."" So Naaman left. He took 750 pounds of silver with him. He also took 150 pounds of gold. And he took ten sets of clothes." 
2Kings5:6 He carried the letter to the king of Israel. It said, ""I'm sending my servant Naaman to you with this letter. I want you to heal him of his skin disease.""" 
2Kings5:7 The king of Israel read the letter. As soon as he did, he tore his royal robes. He said, ""Am I God? Can I kill people and bring them back to life? Why does this fellow send someone to me to be healed of his skin disease? He must be trying to pick a fight with me!""" 
2Kings5:8 Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had torn his robes. So he sent the king a message. It said, ""Why have you torn your robes? Tell the man to come to me. Then he will know there is a prophet in Israel.""" 
2Kings5:9 So Naaman went to see Elisha. He took his horses and chariots with him. He stopped at the door of Elisha's house. 
2Kings5:10 Elisha sent a messenger out to him. The messenger said, ""Go. Wash yourself in the Jordan River seven times. Then your skin will be healed. You will be pure and clean again.""" 
2Kings5:11 But Naaman went away angry. He said, ""I was sure he would come out to me. I thought he would stand there and pray to the Lord his God. I thought he would wave his hand over my skin. Then I would be healed." 
2Kings5:12 And what about the Abana and Pharpar rivers of Damascus? Aren't they better than any of the rivers of Israel? Couldn't I wash in them and be made pure and clean? So he turned and went away. He was burning with anger. 
2Kings5:13 Naaman's servants went over to him. They said, ""You are like a father to us. What if the prophet Elisha had told you to do some great thing? Wouldn't you have done it? But he only said, 'Wash yourself. Then you will be pure and clean.' You should be even more willing to do that!""" 
2Kings5:14 So Naaman went down to the Jordan River. He dipped himself in it seven times. He did exactly what the man of God had told him to do. Then his skin was made pure again. It became clean like the skin of a young boy. 
2Kings5:15 Naaman and all of his attendants went back to the man of God. Naaman stood in front of Elisha. He said, ""Now I know that there is no God anywhere in the whole world except in Israel. Please accept a gift from me.""" 
2Kings5:16 The prophet answered, ""I serve the Lord. You can be sure that he lives. And you can be just as sure that I won't accept a gift from you."" Even though Naaman begged him to take it, Elisha wouldn't." 
2Kings5:17 I can see that you won't accept a gift from me,"" said Naaman. ""But please let me have some soil from your land. Give me as much as a pair of mules can carry. Here's why I want it. I won't ever bring burnt offerings and sacrifices to any other god again. I'll bring them only to the Lord. I'll worship him on his own soil." 
2Kings5:18 But there is one thing I hope the Lord will forgive me for. From time to time my master will enter the temple to bow down to his god Rimmon. When he does, he'll lean on my arm. Then I'll have to bow down there also. I hope the Lord will forgive me for that.""" 
2Kings5:19 Go in peace,"" Elisha said. Naaman started out on his way." 
2Kings5:20 Gehazi was the servant of Elisha, the man of God. Gehazi said to himself, ""My master was too easy on Naaman from Aram. He should have accepted the gift he brought. I'm going to run after Naaman. I'm going to get something from him. And that's just as sure as the Lord is alive.""" 
2Kings5:21 Gehazi hurried after Naaman. Naaman saw him running toward him. So he got down from the chariot to greet him. Is everything all right? he asked. 
2Kings5:22 Everything is all right,"" Gehazi answered. ""My master sent me to say, 'Two young men from the company of the prophets have just come to me. They've come from the hill country of Ephraim. Please give them 75 pounds of silver and two sets of clothes.' """ 
2Kings5:23 I wish you would take twice as much silver,"" said Naaman. He begged Gehazi to accept it. Then Naaman tied up 150 pounds of silver in two bags. He also gave Gehazi two sets of clothes. He gave all of it to two of his own servants. They carried it ahead of Gehazi." 
2Kings5:24 Gehazi came to the hill where Elisha lived. Then the servants handed the things over to Gehazi. He put them away in Elisha's house. He sent the men away, and they left." 
2Kings5:25 Then he went back inside the house. He stood in front of his master Elisha. Gehazi, where have you been?"" Elisha asked. ""I didn't go anywhere,"" Gehazi answered." 
2Kings5:26 But Elisha said to him, ""Didn't my spirit go with you? I know that the man got down from his chariot to greet you. Is this the time for you to accept money or clothes? Is it the time to take olive groves, vineyards, flocks or herds? Is it the time to accept male and female servants?" 
2Kings5:27 You and your children after you will have Naaman's skin disease forever. Then Gehazi left Elisha. And he had Naaman's skin disease. His skin was as white as snow. 
2Kings6:1 The company of the prophets spoke to Elisha. They said, ""Look. The place where we meet with you is too small for us." 
2Kings6:2 We would like to go to the Jordan River. Each of us can get some wood there. We want to build a place there for us to live in. Elisha said, ""Go.""" 
2Kings6:3 Then one of them said, ""Won't you please come with us?"" ""I will,"" Elisha replied." 
2Kings6:4 And he went with them. They went to the Jordan. There they began to cut down trees. 
2Kings6:5 One of them was cutting a tree down. The iron blade of his ax fell into the water. Master! he cried out. This ax was borrowed! 
2Kings6:6 The man of God asked, ""Where did the blade fall?"" He showed him the place. Then Elisha cut a stick and threw it there. That made the iron blade float." 
2Kings6:7 Take it out of the water,"" he said. So the man reached out and took it." 
2Kings6:8 The king of Aram was at war with Israel. He talked things over with his officers. Then he said, ""I'm going to set up my camp in a certain place.""" 
2Kings6:9 The man of God sent a message to the king of Israel. It said, ""Try to stay away from that place. Aram's army is going to be down there.""" 
2Kings6:10 The king of Israel checked on the place the man of God had told him about. Time after time Elisha warned the king. So the king was on guard in those places. 
2Kings6:11 All of that made the king of Aram very angry. He sent for his officers. He said to them, ""Tell me. Which of us is on the side of the king of Israel?""" 
2Kings6:12 You are my king and master,"" said one of his officers. ""None of us is on Israel's side. But Elisha is a prophet in Israel. He tells the king of Israel the very words you speak in your own bedroom.""" 
2Kings6:13 Go and find out where he is,"" the king ordered. ""Then I can send my men and capture him."" The report came back. It said, ""He's in Dothan.""" 
2Kings6:14 Then the king sent horses and chariots and a strong army there. They went at night and surrounded the city. 
2Kings6:15 The servant of the man of God got up the next morning. He went out early. He saw that an army with horses and chariots had surrounded the city. My master! the servant said. What can we do? 
2Kings6:16 Don't be afraid,"" the prophet answered. ""Those who are with us are more than those who are with them.""" 
2Kings6:17 Elisha prayed, ""Lord, open my servant's eyes so he can see."" Then the Lord opened his eyes. He looked up and saw the hills. He saw that Elisha was surrounded by horses and chariots. Fire was all around them." 
2Kings6:18 Aram's army came down toward Elisha. Then he prayed to the Lord. He said, ""Make these soldiers blind."" So the Lord made them blind, just as Elisha had prayed." 
2Kings6:19 Elisha told them, ""This isn't the right road. This isn't the right city. Follow me. I'll lead you to the man you are looking for."" He led them to Samaria." 
2Kings6:20 They entered the city. Then Elisha said, ""Lord, open the eyes of these men. Help them see again."" Then the Lord opened their eyes. They looked around. And there they were, inside Samaria!" 
2Kings6:21 The king of Israel saw them. So he asked Elisha, ""Should I kill them? I need your advice. You are like a father to me. Should I kill them?""" 
2Kings6:22 Don't kill them,"" he answered. ""Would you kill men you have captured with your own sword or bow? Put some food and water in front of them. Then they can eat and drink. They can go back to their master.""" 
2Kings6:23 So he prepared a big dinner for them. After they had finished eating and drinking, he sent them away. They returned to their master. So the companies of soldiers from Aram stopped attacking Israel's territory." 
2Kings6:24 Some time later, Ben-Hadad gathered his entire army together. Ben-Hadad was the king of Aram. His army marched up and surrounded Samaria. Then they attacked it." 
2Kings6:25 There wasn't enough food anywhere in the city. It was surrounded for so long that people had to weigh out two pounds of silver for a donkey's head. They had to weigh out two ounces of silver for half a pint of seed pods. 
2Kings6:26 One day the king of Israel was walking on top of the wall. A woman cried out to him, ""You are my king and master. Please help me!""" 
2Kings6:27 The king replied, ""If the Lord doesn't help you, where can I get help for you? From the threshing floor? From the winepress?""" 
2Kings6:28 He continued, ""What's wrong?"" She answered, ""A woman said to me, 'Give up your son. Then we can eat him today. Tomorrow we'll eat my son.'" 
2Kings6:29 So we cooked my son. Then we ate him. The next day I said to her, 'Give up your son. Then we can eat him.' But she had hidden him.""" 
2Kings6:30 When the king heard the woman's words, he tore his royal robes. As he walked along the wall, the people looked up at him. They saw that he was wearing black clothes under his robes." 
2Kings6:31 He said, ""I'll cut the head of Shaphat's son Elisha off his shoulders today. If I don't, may God punish me greatly!""" 
2Kings6:32 Elisha was sitting in his house. The elders were sitting there with him. The king went to see Elisha. He sent a messenger on ahead of him. Before the messenger arrived, Elisha spoke to the elders. He said, ""That murderer is sending someone here to cut my head off. Can't you see that? When the messenger comes, close the door. Hold it shut against him. Can't you hear his master's footsteps right behind him?""" 
2Kings6:33 Elisha was still talking to the elders when the messenger came down to him. The king also arrived. He said, ""The Lord has sent this horrible trouble on us. Why should I wait any longer for him to help us?""" 
2Kings7:1 Elisha said, ""Listen to a message from the Lord. He says, 'About this time tomorrow, you will be able to buy seven quarts of flour for less than half of an ounce of silver. You will also be able to buy 13 quarts of barley for the same price. That's all you will have to pay for those things at the gate of Samaria.' """ 
2Kings7:2 The king was leaning on an officer's arm. The officer spoke to the man of God. He said, ""Suppose the Lord opens the windows of the skies. Suppose he pours food down on us. Even if he does, could what you are saying really happen?"" ""You will see it with your own eyes,"" answered Elisha. ""But you won't eat any of it!""" 
2Kings7:3 There were four men who had a skin disease. They were at the entrance of the gate of Samaria. They said to one another, ""Why should we stay here until we die?" 
2Kings7:4 Suppose we say, 'We'll go into the city.' There isn't any food there, and we'll die. But if we stay here, we'll die anyway. So let's go over to Aram's army camp. Let's give ourselves up. If they spare us, we'll live. If they kill us, we'll die.""" 
2Kings7:5 At sunset they got up. They went to Aram's army camp. They arrived at the edge of it. But no one was there. 
2Kings7:6 The Lord had caused the soldiers of Aram to hear a noise. It sounded like chariots and horses and a huge army. So the soldiers spoke to one another. They said, ""Listen! The king of Israel has hired the Hittite and Egyptian kings. He has paid them to attack us!""" 
2Kings7:7 So they had gotten up and had run away at sunset. They had left their tents and horses and donkeys behind. They had left the camp as it was. And they had run for their lives. 
2Kings7:8 The men who had a skin disease arrived at the edge of the camp. They entered one of the tents. They ate and drank. Then they carried away silver, gold and clothes. They went off and hid them. They returned and entered another tent. They took some things from it and hid them also." 
2Kings7:9 But then they said to one another, ""What we're doing isn't right. This is a day of good news. And we're keeping it to ourselves. If we wait until sunrise, we'll be punished. Let's go at once. Let's report this to the royal palace.""" 
2Kings7:10 So they went. They called out to the people who were guarding the city gates. They told them, ""We went into Aram's army camp. No one was there. We didn't hear anyone. The horses and donkeys were still tied up. The tents were left just as they were.""" 
2Kings7:11 The people who guarded the gates shouted the news. It was reported inside the palace. 
2Kings7:12 The king of Israel got up in the night. He spoke to his officers. He said, ""I'll tell you what the men of Aram have done to us. They know we are very hungry. So they have left the camp to hide in the countryside. They are thinking, 'We are sure they'll come out. Then we'll take them alive. And we'll get into the city.' """ 
2Kings7:13 One of the king's officers spoke up. He said, ""A few horses are still left in the city. Have some men get five of them. They won't be any worse off than all of the other Israelites who are left here. In fact, all of us will soon be dead. So let's send the men to find out what happened.""" 
2Kings7:14 The men chose two chariots and their horses. The king sent them out to look for Aram's army. He commanded the drivers, ""Go and find out what has happened.""" 
2Kings7:15 They followed the trail of Aram's soldiers all the way to the Jordan River. They found clothes and supplies all along the road. The soldiers had thrown them down when they ran away. So the men returned. They reported to the king what they had seen. 
2Kings7:16 Then the people went out of the city. They took everything of value from Aram's army camp. So seven quarts of flour sold for less than half of an ounce of silver. And 13 quarts of barley sold for the same price. That's exactly what the Lord had said would happen. 
2Kings7:17 The king had put an officer in charge of the city gate. He was the officer on whose arm the king leaned. On their way out of the city, the people knocked the officer down. In the entrance of the gate they walked all over him. And he died. That's exactly what the man of God had said would happen. He had said it when the king came down to his house." 
2Kings7:18 What the man of God had told the king came true. He had said, ""About this time tomorrow, you will be able to buy seven quarts of flour for less than half of an ounce of silver. You will also be able to buy 13 quarts of barley for the same price. That's all you will have to pay for those things at the gate of Samaria.""" 
2Kings7:19 The officer had spoken to the man of God. He had said, ""Suppose the Lord opens the windows of the skies. Suppose he pours food down on us. Even if he does, could what you are saying really happen?"" The man of God had replied, ""You will see it with your own eyes. But you won't eat any of it!""" 
2Kings7:20 And that's exactly what happened to the officer. On their way out of the city, the people knocked him down. In the entrance of the gate they walked all over him. And he died." 
2Kings8:1 Elisha had brought a woman's son back to life. He had said to her, ""Go away with your family. Stay for a while anywhere you can. The Lord has decided that there won't be enough food in the land. That will be true for seven years.""" 
2Kings8:2 The woman did just as the man of God told her to. She and her family went away. They stayed in the land of the Philistines for seven years. 
2Kings8:3 The seven years passed. Then she came back from the land of the Philistines. She went to the king of Israel. She wanted to beg him to get her house and land back. 
2Kings8:4 The king was talking to Gehazi. Gehazi was the servant of the man of God. The king had said, ""Tell me about all of the great things Elisha has done.""" 
2Kings8:5 Gehazi was telling the king how Elisha had brought a dead boy back to life. Just then the woman came to beg the king to get her house and land back. She was the woman whose son Elisha had brought back to life. Gehazi said, ""King Joram, this is the woman I've been telling you about. And this is her son. He's the one Elisha brought back to life.""" 
2Kings8:6 The king asked the woman about her house and land. And she told him. Then he appointed an official to look into her case. The king told him, ""Give her back everything that belonged to her. That includes all of the money that was earned from her land. It was earned from the day she left the country until now.""" 
2Kings8:7 Elisha went to Damascus. Ben-Hadad was sick. He was king of Aram. The king was told, ""The man of God has come all the way up here.""" 
2Kings8:8 Then the king said to Hazael, ""Take a gift with you. Go and see the man of God. Ask him for the Lord's advice. Ask him whether I will get well again.""" 
2Kings8:9 Hazael went to see Elisha. He took 40 camels with him as a gift. The camels were loaded with all of the finest goods of Damascus. Hazael went into Elisha's house and stood in front of him. He said, ""Ben-Hadad has sent me. He is the king of Aram. He asks, 'Will I get well again?' """ 
2Kings8:10 Elisha answered, ""Go and speak to him. Tell him, 'Yes. You will get well again.' But the Lord has shown me that he will in fact die.""" 
2Kings8:11 Elisha stared at him without looking away. He did it until Hazael felt ashamed. Then the man of God began to sob. 
2Kings8:12 Why are you sobbing? asked Hazael. Because I know how much harm you will do to the people of Israel,"" he answered. ""You will set fire to their cities that have high walls around them. You will kill their young men with your sword. You will smash their little children on the ground. You will rip open their pregnant women.""" 
2Kings8:13 Hazael said, ""How could I possibly do a thing like that? I'm nothing but a dog. I don't have that kind of power."" ""You will become king of Aram,"" Elisha answered. ""That's what the Lord has shown me.""" 
2Kings8:14 Then Hazael left Elisha. He returned to his master. Ben-Hadad asked, ""What did Elisha say to you?"" Hazael replied, ""He told me you would get well again.""" 
2Kings8:15 But the next day Hazael got a thick cloth. He soaked it in water. He spread it over the king's face. He held it there until the king died. Then Hazael became the next king after him. 
2Kings8:16 Jehoram began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the fifth year that Joram was king of Israel. Joram was the son of Ahab. Jehoram was the son of Jehoshaphat. 
2Kings8:17 Jehoram was 32 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. 
2Kings8:18 He followed the ways of the kings of Israel, just as the royal family of Ahab had done. In fact, he got married to a daughter of Ahab. Jehoram did what was evil in the sight of the Lord." 
2Kings8:19 But the Lord didn't want to destroy Judah. That's because the Lord had made a covenant with his servant David. He had promised to keep the lamp of David's kingdom burning brightly for him and his children after him forever. 
2Kings8:20 When Jehoram was king over Judah, Edom refused to remain under Judah's control. They set up their own king." 
2Kings8:21 So Jehoram went to Zair. He took all of his chariots with him. The men of Edom surrounded him and his chariot commanders. He got up at night and fought his way out. But his army ran back home. 
2Kings8:22 To this very day Edom has refused to remain under Judah's control. At that same time, Libnah also refused to remain under the control of Judah." 
2Kings8:23 The other events of Jehoram's rule are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings8:24 Jehoram joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the family tomb in the City of David. His son Ahaziah became the next king after him. 
2Kings8:25 Ahaziah began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the 12th year that Joram was king of Israel. Joram was the son of Ahab. Ahaziah was the son of Jehoram. 
2Kings8:26 Ahaziah was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for one year. His mother's name was Athaliah. She was a granddaughter of Omri. Omri had been the king of Israel. 
2Kings8:27 Ahaziah followed the ways of the royal family of Ahab. Ahaziah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, just as the family of Ahab had done. That's because he had married into Ahab's family." 
2Kings8:28 Ahaziah joined forces with Joram. They went to war against Hazael at Ramoth Gilead. Joram was the son of Ahab. Hazael was king of Aram. The soldiers of Aram wounded King Joram. 
2Kings8:29 So he returned to Jezreel to give his wounds time to heal. The soldiers of Aram had wounded him at Ramoth in his battle against Hazael, the king of Aram. Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, went down to Jezreel. He went there to see Joram. That's because Joram had been wounded. Ahaziah was king of Judah. Joram was the son of Ahab." 
2Kings9:1 The prophet Elisha sent for a man from the company of the prophets. Elisha said to him, ""Tuck your coat into your belt. Take this bottle of olive oil with you. Go to Ramoth Gilead." 
2Kings9:2 When you get there, look for Jehu. He's the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi. Go to him. Get him away from his companions. Take him into an inside room." 
2Kings9:3 Then get the bottle. Pour the oil on his head. Announce to him, 'The Lord says, ""I anoint you as king over Israel."" ' After that, open the door and run away. Do it quickly!""" 
2Kings9:4 So the young prophet went to Ramoth Gilead. 
2Kings9:5 When he arrived, he found the army officers sitting together. ""Commander, I have a message for you,"" he said. ""For which one of us?"" asked Jehu. ""For you, commander,"" he replied." 
2Kings9:6 Jehu got up and went into the house. Then the prophet poured the oil on Jehu's head. He announced, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'I am anointing you as king over my people Israel." 
2Kings9:7 You must destroy the royal house of your master Ahab. I will pay them back for spilling the blood of my servants the prophets. I will also pay them back for the blood of all of my servants that Jezebel spilled. 
2Kings9:8 The whole house of Ahab will die out. I will cut off every male in Israel who is related to Ahab. It does not matter whether they are slaves or free. 
2Kings9:9  'I will make Ahab's royal house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. I will make it like the house of Baasha, the son of Ahijah." 
2Kings9:10 Dogs will eat up Jezebel on a piece of land at Jezreel. No one will bury her.'  Then the prophet opened the door and ran away. 
2Kings9:11 Jehu went out to where the other officers were. One of them asked him, ""Is everything all right? Why did that crazy man come to you?"" ""You know the man. You know the kinds of things he says,"" Jehu replied." 
2Kings9:12 That's not true! they said. Tell us. Jehu said, ""Here is what he told me. He announced, 'The Lord says, ""I am anointing you as king over Israel."" ' """ 
2Kings9:13 The officers quickly grabbed their coats. They spread them out under Jehu on the bare steps of the house. Then they blew a trumpet. They shouted, ""Jehu is king!""" 
2Kings9:14 Jehu was the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshi. Jehu made plans against Joram. During that time Joram and Israel's whole army had been guarding Ramoth Gilead. They had been guarding it against Hazael, the king of Aram." 
2Kings9:15 But King Joram had returned to Jezreel. He had gone there to give his wounds time to heal. The soldiers of Aram had wounded him in his battle against Hazael, the king of Aram. Jehu said to his men, ""Are you really on my side? If you are, don't let anyone sneak out of the city. Don't let them go and tell the news in Jezreel.""" 
2Kings9:16 Then Jehu got into his chariot. He rode off to Jezreel. Joram was resting there. And Ahaziah, the king of Judah, had gone down to see him." 
2Kings9:17 A lookout was standing on the roof of the tower in Jezreel. He saw Jehu's troops approaching. So he called out, ""I see some troops coming."" ""Get a horseman,"" Joram ordered. ""Send him to ride out to them. Have him ask, 'Are you coming in peace?' """ 
2Kings9:18 The horseman rode out to where Jehu was. He said, ""The king asks, 'Are you coming in peace?' "" ""What do you know about peace?"" Jehu answered. ""Get in line behind me."" The lookout reported, ""The messenger has reached them. But he isn't coming back.""" 
2Kings9:19 So the king sent out a second horseman. When he came to them, he told them, ""The king asks, 'Are you coming in peace?' "" Jehu replied, ""What do you know about peace? Get in line behind me.""" 
2Kings9:20 The lookout reported, ""The second messenger has reached them. But he isn't coming back either. The one driving the chariot drives like Jehu, the son of Nimshi. He's driving like a crazy man.""" 
2Kings9:21 Get my chariot ready,"" King Joram ordered. When it was ready, he rode out. Ahaziah, the king of Judah, rode out with him. Each of them was in his own chariot. They both went to meet Jehu. They met him at the piece of land that had belonged to Naboth from Jezreel." 
2Kings9:22 When Joram saw Jehu he asked, ""Have you come here in peace, Jehu?"" ""Your mother Jezebel worships statues of gods,"" Jehu replied. ""She also worships evil powers. The evil things she does have spread everywhere. As long as all of that goes on, how can there be peace?""" 
2Kings9:23 Joram turned around and tried to get away. He called out to Ahaziah. He said, ""It's treason, Ahaziah!""" 
2Kings9:24 Then Jehu shot an arrow at Joram. It hit him between the shoulders. It went through his heart. He sank down slowly in his chariot. 
2Kings9:25 Jehu spoke to Bidkar, his chariot officer. He said, ""Pick him up. Throw him on the field that belonged to Naboth from Jezreel. Remember how you and I were riding together in chariots behind Joram's father Ahab? It was when the Lord made a prophecy about him. He announced," 
2Kings9:26 'Yesterday I saw the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons. You can be sure that I will make you pay for it on this piece of land.' So pick him up. Throw him on that piece of land. That's what the Lord said would happen. 
2Kings9:27 Ahaziah, the king of Judah, saw what had happened. So he tried to get away. He went up the road toward Beth Haggan. Jehu chased him. He shouted, ""Kill him too!"" Jehu's men wounded Ahaziah in his chariot. It happened on the way up to Gur near Ibleam. But he escaped to Megiddo. And that's where he died." 
2Kings9:28 Ahaziah's servants took him to Jerusalem in his chariot. They buried his body in his family tomb in the City of David. 
2Kings9:29 Ahaziah had become king of Judah. It was in the 11th year of Joram, the son of Ahab." 
2Kings9:30 Jehu went to Jezreel. Jezebel heard about it. So she put makeup on her eyes and fixed her hair. She looked out of a window. 
2Kings9:31 Jehu entered the gate below. Then Jezebel said, ""You are just like Zimri. You murdered your master. Have you come here in peace?""" 
2Kings9:32 He looked up at the window. Who is on my side? he called out. Who? Two or three officials looked down at him. 
2Kings9:33 Throw her down! Jehu said. So they threw her down. Some of her blood splashed on the wall. Some of it splashed on Jehu's chariot horses as they ran over her. 
2Kings9:34 Jehu went inside. He ate and drank. The Lord put a curse on that woman,"" he said. ""Take proper care of her body. Bury it. After all, she was a king's daughter.""" 
2Kings9:35 So they went out to bury her body. But all they found was her skull, feet and hands." 
2Kings9:36 They went back and reported it to Jehu. He told them, ""That's what the Lord said would happen. He announced it through his servant Elijah, who was from Tishbe. He said, 'On a piece of land at Jezreel, dogs will eat up Jezebel's body." 
2Kings9:37 Her body will be left to rot on that piece of land. So no one will be able to say, ""Here's where Jezebel is buried."" ' """ 
2Kings10:1 Ahab's royal family in the city of Samaria had a total of 70 sons. Jehu wrote some letters to the officials of the city. He also sent them to the elders there. And he sent them to those who took care of Ahab's children. He said," 
2Kings10:2 Your master's sons are with you. You also have chariots and horses and weapons. And you are living in a city that has high walls around it. As soon as you read this letter, here's what I want you to do." 
2Kings10:3 Choose the best and most respected son of your master. Place him on his father Joram's throne. Then fight for your master's royal house. 
2Kings10:4 The leaders of Samaria were terrified. They said, ""King Joram and King Ahaziah couldn't stand up against Jehu. So how can we?""" 
2Kings10:5 The city governor and the person who was in charge of the palace sent a message to Jehu. The message was also from the elders and those who took care of Ahab's children. It said, ""We will serve you. We'll do anything you say. We won't appoint anyone to be king. Do what you think is best.""" 
2Kings10:6 Then Jehu wrote them a second letter. It said, ""You say you are on my side. You say you will obey me. If you really mean it, bring me the heads of your master's sons. Meet me in Jezreel by this time tomorrow."" There were 70 royal princes. They were with the most important men of the city. Those men were in charge of raising them." 
2Kings10:7 When Jehu's letter arrived, the men went and got the princes. They killed all 70 of them. They put their heads in baskets. Then they sent them to Jehu in Jezreel." 
2Kings10:8 When the messenger arrived, he spoke to Jehu. He told him, ""The heads of the princes have been brought here."" Then Jehu ordered his men, ""Put them in two piles. Stack them up at the entrance of the city gate until morning.""" 
2Kings10:9 The next morning Jehu went out. He stood in front of all of the people. He said, ""You aren't guilty of doing anything wrong. I'm the one who made plans against my master Joram. I killed him. But who killed all of these?" 
2Kings10:10 I want you to know that the Lord has spoken against Ahab's royal house. Not a word of what he has said will fail. The Lord has done exactly what he promised through his servant Elijah. 
2Kings10:11 So Jehu killed everyone from Ahab's family who was in Jezreel. He also killed all of Ahab's chief men. And he killed Ahab's close friends and his priests. He didn't leave anyone in Ahab's family alive. 
2Kings10:12 Then Jehu started out for Samaria. At Beth Eked of the Shepherds," 
2Kings10:13 he saw some people. They were relatives of Ahaziah, the king of Judah. Jehu asked them, ""Who are you?"" They said, ""We are Ahaziah's relatives. We've come down to visit the families of the king and of his mother.""" 
2Kings10:14 Take them alive! Jehu ordered. So his men took them alive. Then they killed them by the well of Beth Eked. They killed a total of 42 men. Jehu didn't leave anyone alive. 
2Kings10:15 After Jehu left there, he came upon Jehonadab. He was the son of Recab. Jehonadab was on his way to see Jehu. Jehu greeted him. He asked, ""Are you my friend? You know I'm your friend."" ""I am,"" Jehonadab answered. ""If that's true,"" said Jehu, ""hold out your hand."" So he did. Then Jehu helped him up into the chariot." 
2Kings10:16 Jehu said, ""Come along with me. See how committed I am to serve the Lord."" He had him ride along in his chariot." 
2Kings10:17 Jehu came to Samaria. He killed everyone who was left there from Ahab's family. And so he wiped out Ahab's royal house. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken that message to Elijah. 
2Kings10:18 Then Jehu brought all of the people together. He said to them, ""Ahab served the god Baal a little. I will serve him a lot." 
2Kings10:19 Send for all of Baal's prophets. Also send for all of his priests and the others who serve him. Make sure that not a single one is missing. I'm going to hold a great sacrifice to honor Baal. Anyone who doesn't come will be killed. But Jehu was lying to them. He was planning to destroy those who served Baal. 
2Kings10:20 Jehu said, ""Call everyone together to honor Baal."" So they did." 
2Kings10:21 Then he sent a message all through Israel. All of those who served Baal came. Not a single one of them stayed away. They crowded into Baal's temple. It was full from one end to the other. 
2Kings10:22 Jehu spoke to the one who took care of the sacred robes. He told him, ""Bring robes for everyone who serves Baal."" So he brought the robes out for them." 
2Kings10:23 Then Jehu went into Baal's temple. Jehonadab, the son of Recab, went with him. Jehu spoke to those who served Baal. He said, ""Look around. Make sure that no one who serves the Lord is here with you. Make sure only those who serve Baal are here.""" 
2Kings10:24 So they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. Jehu had stationed 80 men outside. He warned them, ""I'm placing some men in your hands. Don't let a single one of them escape. If you do, you will pay for his life with yours.""" 
2Kings10:25 Jehu finished sacrificing the burnt offering. As soon as he did, he gave an order to the guards and officers. He commanded them, ""Go inside and kill everyone. Don't let a single one of them escape."" So they cut them down with their swords. The guards and officers threw the bodies outside. Then they entered the most sacred area inside Baal's temple." 
2Kings10:26 They brought the sacred stone of Baal outside. They burned it up. 
2Kings10:27 So they destroyed Baal's sacred stone. They also tore down Baal's temple. People have used it as a public toilet to this very day. 
2Kings10:28 So Jehu destroyed the worship of the god Baal in Israel. 
2Kings10:29 But he didn't turn away from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins. Jehu worshiped the golden calves at Bethel and Dan." 
2Kings10:30 The Lord said to Jehu, ""You have done well. You have accomplished what is right in my eyes. You have done to Ahab's royal house everything I wanted you to do. So your sons after you will sit on the throne of Israel. They will rule until the time of your children's grandchildren.""" 
2Kings10:31 But Jehu wasn't careful to obey the law of the Lord. He didn't obey the God of Israel with all his heart. He didn't turn away from the sins of Jeroboam. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins. 
2Kings10:32 In those days the Lord began to make the kingdom of Israel smaller. Hazael gained control over many parts of Israel. He gained control over all of their territory 
2Kings10:33 east of the Jordan River. It included the whole land of Gilead from Aroer by the Arnon River valley all the way to Bashan. That was the territory of Gad, Reuben and Manasseh." 
2Kings10:34 The other events of Jehu's rule are written down. Everything he did and accomplished is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings10:35 Jehu joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in Samaria. His son Jehoahaz became the next king after him. 
2Kings10:36 Jehu had ruled over Israel in Samaria for 28 years. 
2Kings11:1 Athaliah was Ahaziah's mother. She saw that her son was dead. So she began to wipe out the whole royal house of Judah. 
2Kings11:2 But Jehosheba went and got Joash, the son of Ahaziah. She was the daughter of King Jehoram and the sister of Ahaziah. She stole Joash away from among the royal princes. All of them were about to be murdered. She put Joash and his nurse in a bedroom. That's how she hid him from Athaliah. And that's why Athaliah didn't kill him." 
2Kings11:3 The child remained hidden with his nurse at the Lord's temple for six years. Athaliah ruled over the land during that time. 
2Kings11:4 In the seventh year the priest Jehoiada sent for the commanders of companies of 100 men. They were the commanders over the Carites and guards. He had them brought to him at the temple of the Lord. He made a covenant with them. He made them take an oath at the temple. Then he showed them the king's son. 
2Kings11:5 He gave them a command. He said, ""Here's what you must do. There are five companies of you. Some of you are in the three companies that are going on duty on the Sabbath day. A third of you must guard the royal palace." 
2Kings11:6 A third of you must guard the Sur Gate. And a third of you must guard the gate that is behind the guard. All of you must take turns guarding the temple. 
2Kings11:7 The rest of you are in the other two companies. Normally you are not on duty on the Sabbath. But you also must guard the temple for the king. 
2Kings11:8 Station yourselves around the king. Each man must have his weapon in his hand. Anyone else who approaches your companies must be put to death. Stay close to the king no matter where he goes. 
2Kings11:9 The commanders of the companies did just as the priest Jehoiada ordered. Each commander got his men and came to Jehoiada. Some of the men were going on duty on the Sabbath day. Others were going off duty. 
2Kings11:10 Then Jehoiada gave weapons to the commanders. He gave them spears and shields. The weapons had belonged to King David. They had been in the Lord's temple. 
2Kings11:11 The guards stationed themselves around the new king. Each man had his weapon in his hand. They were near the altar and the temple. They stood from the south side of the temple to its north side. Their line formed half of a circle. 
2Kings11:12 Jehoiada brought Ahaziah's son out. He put the crown on him. He gave him a copy of the covenant. And he announced that Joash was king. Jehoiada and his sons anointed him. The people clapped their hands. Then they shouted, ""May the king live a long time!""" 
2Kings11:13 Athaliah heard the noise the guards and the people were making. So she went to the people at the Lord's temple. 
2Kings11:14 She looked. And there was the king! He was standing next to the pillar. That was the usual practice. The officers and trumpet players were standing beside the king. All of the people of the land were filled with joy. They were blowing trumpets. Then Athaliah tore her royal robes. She called out, ""Treason! It's treason!""" 
2Kings11:15 The priest Jehoiada gave an order to the commanders of the companies. They were in charge of the troops. He said to them, ""Bring her away from the temple between the line of guards. Use your swords to kill anyone who follows her."" The priest had said, ""She must not be put to death at the Lord's temple.""" 
2Kings11:16 So they grabbed hold of her as she reached the place where the horses enter the palace grounds. There she was put to death. 
2Kings11:17 Then Jehoiada made a covenant between the Lord and the king and people. He had the king and people promise that they would be the Lord's people. Jehoiada also made a covenant between the king and the people. 
2Kings11:18 All of the people of the land went to Baal's temple. They tore it down. They smashed to pieces the altars and the statues of gods. They killed Mattan in front of the altars. He was the priest of Baal. Then the priest Jehoiada stationed guards at the temple of the Lord. 
2Kings11:19 He took with him the commanders of companies of 100 men. They were the commanders over the Carites and guards. He also took with him all of the people of the land. All of them brought the new king down from the Lord's temple. They went into the palace. They entered it by going through the gate of the guards. Then the king sat down on the royal throne. 
2Kings11:20 All of the people of the land were filled with joy. And the city was quiet. That's because Athaliah had been killed with a sword at the palace. 
2Kings11:21 Joash was seven years old when he became king. 
2Kings12:1 Joash became king of Judah. It was in the seventh year of Jehu's rule. Joash ruled in Jerusalem for 40 years. His mother's name was Zibiah. She was from Beersheba. 
2Kings12:2 Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He lived that way as long as the priest Jehoiada was teaching him. 
2Kings12:3 But the high places weren't removed. The people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
2Kings12:4 Joash spoke to the priests. He said, ""Collect all of the money the people bring as sacred offerings to the Lord's temple. That includes the money that is collected when the men who are able to serve in the army are counted. It includes the money that is received from people who make a special promise to the Lord. It also includes the money people bring to the temple just because they want to." 
2Kings12:5 Let each priest receive the money from one of the people who are in charge of the temple's treasures. Let all of that money be used to repair the temple where it needs it. 
2Kings12:6 It was now the 23rd year of King Joash. And the priests still hadn't repaired the temple. 
2Kings12:7 So the king sent for the priest Jehoiada and the other priests. He asked them, ""Why aren't you repairing the temple where it needs it? Don't take any more money from the people who are in charge of the treasures. Instead, hand it over so the temple can be repaired.""" 
2Kings12:8 The priests agreed that they wouldn't collect any more money from the people. They also agreed that they wouldn't repair the temple themselves. 
2Kings12:9 The priest Jehoiada got a chest. He drilled a hole in its lid. He placed the chest beside the altar for burnt offerings. The chest was on the right side as people enter the Lord's temple. Some priests guarded the entrance. They put into the chest all of the money the people brought to the temple. 
2Kings12:10 From time to time there was a large amount of money in the chest. When that happened, the royal secretary and the high priest came. They counted the money the people had brought to the temple. Then they put it into bags." 
2Kings12:11 After they added it all up, they used it to repair the temple. They gave it to the men who had been put in charge of the work. Those men used it to pay the workers. They paid the builders and those who worked with wood." 
2Kings12:12 They paid those who cut stones and those who laid them. They bought lumber and blocks of stone. So they used the money to repair the Lord's temple. They also paid all of the other costs to make the temple like new again. 
2Kings12:13 The money the people brought to the Lord's temple wasn't used to make silver bowls. It wasn't used for wick cutters, sprinkling bowls or trumpets. And it wasn't used for any other articles made out of gold or silver." 
2Kings12:14 Instead, it was paid to the workers. They used it to repair the temple." 
2Kings12:15 The royal secretary and the high priest didn't require a report from those who were in charge of the work. That's because they were completely honest. They always paid the workers. 
2Kings12:16 Money was received from those who brought guilt offerings and sin offerings. But it wasn't taken to the Lord's temple. It belonged to the priests. 
2Kings12:17 About that time Hazael, the king of Aram, went up and attacked Gath. Then he captured it. After that, he turned back to attack Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:18 But Joash, the king of Judah, didn't want to go to war. So he got all of the sacred objects. They had been set apart to the Lord by the kings who had ruled over Judah before him. They were Jehoshaphat, Jehoram and Ahaziah. Joash got the gifts he himself had set apart. He got all of the gold that was among the temple treasures. He also got all of the gold from the royal palace. He sent all of those things to Hazael, the king of Aram. Then Hazael pulled his army back from Jerusalem." 
2Kings12:19 The other events of the rule of Joash are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings12:20 The officials of Joash made evil plans against him. They killed him at Beth Millo. It happened on the road that goes down to Silla. 
2Kings12:21 The officials who murdered him were Jozabad and Jehozabad. Jozabad was the son of Shimeath. Jehozabad was the son of Shomer. After Joash died, his body was buried in the family tomb in the City of David. His son Amaziah became the next king after him." 
2Kings13:1 Jehoahaz became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 23rd year of Joash, the king of Judah. Jehoahaz ruled for 17 years. Joash was the son of Ahaziah. Jehoahaz was the son of Jehu." 
2Kings13:2 Jehoahaz did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He committed the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins. Jehoahaz didn't turn away from them." 
2Kings13:3 So the Lord's anger burned against Israel. For a long time he kept them under the power of Hazael, the king of Aram. He also kept them under the power of his son Ben-Hadad." 
2Kings13:4 Then Jehoahaz asked the Lord to show him his favor. The Lord listened to him. The Lord saw how badly the king of Aram was treating Israel. 
2Kings13:5 The Lord provided someone to save Israel. And they escaped from the power of Aram. So the people of Israel lived in their own homes, just as they had before." 
2Kings13:6 But the people didn't turn away from the sins of the royal house of Jeroboam. He had caused Israel to commit those same sins. The people continued to commit them. And the pole that was used to worship the goddess Asherah remained standing in Samaria. 
2Kings13:7 The army of Jehoahaz had almost nothing left. All it had was 50 horsemen, 10 chariots and 10,000 soldiers on foot. The king of Aram had destroyed the rest of them. He had made them like dust at threshing time." 
2Kings13:8 The other events of the rule of Jehoahaz are written down. Everything he did and accomplished is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings13:9 Jehoahaz joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in Samaria. His son Jehoash became the next king after him. 
2Kings13:10 Jehoash became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 37th year that Joash was king of Judah. Jehoash ruled for 16 years. He was the son of Jehoahaz. 
2Kings13:11 Jehoash did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He didn't turn away from any of the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins. And Jehoash continued to commit them." 
2Kings13:12 The other events of the rule of Jehoash are written down. Everything he did and accomplished is written down. That includes his war against Amaziah, the king of Judah. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel." 
2Kings13:13 Jehoash joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the royal tombs in Samaria. Jeroboam became the next king on Israel's throne after him. 
2Kings13:14 Elisha was suffering from a sickness. Later he would die from it. Jehoash, the king of Israel, went down to see him. He sobbed over him. ""My father!"" he cried. ""You are like a father to me! You are the true chariots and horsemen of Israel!""" 
2Kings13:15 Elisha said to Jehoash, ""Get a bow and some arrows."" So he did." 
2Kings13:16 Hold the bow in your hands,"" Elisha said to the king of Israel. So Jehoash took hold of the bow. Then Elisha put his hands on the king's hands." 
2Kings13:17 Open the east window,"" Elisha said. So he did. ""Shoot!"" Elisha said. So he shot. ""That's the Lord's arrow!"" Elisha announced. ""It means you will win the battle over Aram! You will completely destroy the men of Aram at Aphek.""" 
2Kings13:18 He continued, ""Get some arrows."" So the king did. Elisha told him, ""Strike the ground."" He struck it three times. Then he stopped." 
2Kings13:19 The man of God was angry with him. He said, ""You should have struck the ground five or six times. Then you would have won the war over Aram. You would have completely destroyed them. But now you will win only three battles over them.""" 
2Kings13:20 Elisha died. And his body was buried. Some robbers from Moab used to enter the country of Israel every spring. 
2Kings13:21 One day some people of Israel were burying a man's body. Suddenly they saw a group of robbers. So they threw the man's body into Elisha's tomb. The body touched Elisha's bones. When it did, the man came back to life again. He stood up on his feet." 
2Kings13:22 Hazael, the king of Aram, treated Israel badly. He did it the whole time Jehoahaz was king." 
2Kings13:23 But the Lord showed his favor to Israel. He was tender and kind to them. He showed concern for them. He did all of those things because of the covenant he had made with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. To this very day he hasn't been willing to destroy them. And he hasn't driven them out of his land." 
2Kings13:24 Hazael, the king of Aram, died. His son Ben-Hadad became the next king after him." 
2Kings13:25 Then Jehoash took some towns back from Ben-Hadad, the son of Hazael. Ben-Hadad had captured them in battle from Jehoahaz, the father of Jehoash. Jehoash won three battles over Ben-Hadad. So Jehoash took back the Israelite towns." 
2Kings14:1 Amaziah began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the second year that Jehoash was king of Israel. He was the son of Jehoahaz. Amaziah was the son of Joash. 
2Kings14:2 Amaziah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Jehoaddin. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Kings14:3 Amaziah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. But he didn't do what King David had done. He always followed the example of his father Joash. 
2Kings14:4 The high places weren't removed. The people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
2Kings14:5 The kingdom was firmly under his control. So he put to death the officials who had murdered his father, the king." 
2Kings14:6 But he didn't put their children to death. He obeyed what is written in the Scroll of the Law of Moses. There the Lord commanded, ""Parents must not be put to death because of what their children do. And children must not be put to death because of what their parents do. People must die because of their own sins."",(Deuteronomy 24:16)" 
2Kings14:6 But he didn't put their children to death. He obeyed what is written in the Scroll of the Law of Moses. There the Lord commanded, ""Parents must not be put to death because of what their children do. And children must not be put to death because of what their parents do. People must die because of their own sins."",(Deuteronomy 24:16)" 
2Kings14:7 Amaziah won the battle over 10,000 men of Edom. It happened in the Valley of Salt. During the battle he captured the town of Sela. He called it Joktheel. That's the name it still has to this very day." 
2Kings14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the king of Israel. He was the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu. The message said, ""Come on. Meet me face to face in battle.""" 
2Kings14:9 But Jehoash, the king of Israel, answered Amaziah, the king of Judah. He said, ""A thorn bush in Lebanon sent a message to a cedar tree there. It said, 'Give your daughter to be married to my son.' Then a wild animal in Lebanon came along. It walked all over the thorn bush." 
2Kings14:10 It's true that you have won the battle over Edom. So you are proud. Enjoy your success while you can. But stay home and enjoy it! Why ask for trouble? Why bring yourself crashing down? Why bring Judah down with you? 
2Kings14:11 But Amaziah wouldn't listen. So Jehoash, the king of Israel, attacked. He and Amaziah, the king of Judah, faced each other in battle. The battle took place at Beth Shemesh in Judah." 
2Kings14:12 Israel drove Judah away. Every man ran home. 
2Kings14:13 Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah at Beth Shemesh. Amaziah was the son of Joash. Joash was the son of Ahaziah. Jehoash went to Jerusalem. He broke down part of its wall. It's the part that went from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate. That part of the wall was 600 feet long. 
2Kings14:14 Jehoash took all of the gold, silver and articles that were in the Lord's temple. He also took all of those same kinds of things that were among the treasures of the royal palace. And he took the prisoners. Then he returned to Samaria." 
2Kings14:15 The other events of the rule of Jehoash are written down. Everything he did and accomplished is written down. That includes his war against Amaziah, the king of Judah. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel." 
2Kings14:16 Jehoash joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in Samaria in the royal tombs of Israel. His son Jeroboam became the next king after him. 
2Kings14:17 Amaziah king of Judah lived for 15 years after Jehoash king of Israel died. Amaziah was the son of Joash. Jehoash was the son of Jehoahaz. 
2Kings14:18 The other events of Amaziah's rule are written down. They are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings14:19 Some people made evil plans against Amaziah in Jerusalem. So he ran away to Lachish. But they sent men to Lachish after him. There they killed him. 
2Kings14:20 His body was brought back on a horse. Then he was buried in the family tomb in Jerusalem, the City of David." 
2Kings14:21 All of the people of Judah made Uzziah king. He was 16 years old. They made him king in place of his father Amaziah. 
2Kings14:22 Uzziah rebuilt Elath. He brought it under Judah's control again. He did it after Amaziah joined the members of his family who had already died. 
2Kings14:23 Jeroboam became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 15th year that Amaziah was king of Judah. Jeroboam ruled for 41 years. Amaziah was the son of Joash. Jeroboam was the son of Jehoash. 
2Kings14:24 Jeroboam did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He didn't turn away from any of the sins the earlier Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. That Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins." 
2Kings14:25 Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash, made the borders of Israel the same as they were before. They reached from Lebo Hamath all the way to the Dead Sea. That's what the Lord, the God of Israel, had said would happen. He had spoken that message through his servant Jonah. The prophet Jonah was the son of Amittai. Jonah was from Gath Hepher." 
2Kings14:25 Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash, made the borders of Israel the same as they were before. They reached from Lebo Hamath all the way to the Dead Sea. That's what the Lord, the God of Israel, had said would happen. He had spoken that message through his servant Jonah. The prophet Jonah was the son of Amittai. Jonah was from Gath Hepher." 
2Kings14:26 The Lord had seen how much everyone in Israel was suffering. It didn't matter whether they were slaves or free. They didn't have anyone to help them. 
2Kings14:27 The Lord hadn't said he would wipe out Israel's name from the earth. So he saved them by using the powerful hand of Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash." 
2Kings14:28 The other events of the rule of Jeroboam are written down. Everything he did is written down. What he and his army accomplished is written down. That includes how he brought Damascus and Hamath back under Israel's control. Damascus and Hamath had belonged to the territory of Yaudi. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings14:29 Jeroboam joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the royal tombs of Israel. His son Zechariah became the next king after him. 
2Kings14:29 Jeroboam joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the royal tombs of Israel. His son Zechariah became the next king after him. 
2Kings15:1 Uzziah began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the 27th year that Jeroboam was king of Israel. Uzziah was the son of Amaziah. 
2Kings15:2 Uzziah was 16 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 52 years. His mother's name was Jecoliah. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Kings15:3 Uzziah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Amaziah had done." 
2Kings15:4 But the high places weren't removed. The people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. 
2Kings15:5 The Lord caused King Uzziah to suffer from a skin disease until the day he died. He lived in a separate house. His son Jotham was in charge of the palace. Jotham ruled over the people of the land. 
2Kings15:6 The other events of the rule of Uzziah are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings15:7 Uzziah joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried near them in the City of David. His son Jotham became the next king after him. 
2Kings15:8 Zechariah became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 38th year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Zechariah ruled for six months. He was the son of Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash." 
2Kings15:8 Zechariah became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 38th year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Zechariah ruled for six months. He was the son of Jeroboam, the son of Jehoash." 
2Kings15:9 Zechariah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did what the kings of Israel before him had done. He didn't turn away from the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins." 
2Kings15:9 Zechariah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did what the kings of Israel before him had done. He didn't turn away from the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins." 
2Kings15:10 Shallum made evil plans against Zechariah. He attacked Zechariah in front of the people and killed him. Then he became the next king after him. Shallum was the son of Jabesh. 
2Kings15:10 Shallum made evil plans against Zechariah. He attacked Zechariah in front of the people and killed him. Then he became the next king after him. Shallum was the son of Jabesh. 
2Kings15:11 The other events of the rule of Zechariah are written down. They are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings15:11 The other events of the rule of Zechariah are written down. They are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings15:12 That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken that message to Jehu. It had said, ""Your sons after you will sit on the throne of Israel. They will rule until the time of your children's grandchildren."" ,(2 Kings 10:30)" 
2Kings15:13 Shallum became king of Israel. It was in the 39th year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Shallum ruled in Samaria for one month. He was the son of Jabesh. 
2Kings15:14 Menahem went from Tirzah up to Samaria. There he attacked Shallum, the son of Jabesh. He killed him and became the next king after him. Menahem was the son of Gadi." 
2Kings15:15 The other events of Shallum's rule are written down. The evil things he planned are written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings15:16 At that time Menahem started out from Tirzah and attacked Tiphsah. He attacked everyone in the city and the area around it. That's because they refused to open their gates for him. He destroyed Tiphsah. He ripped open all of their pregnant women. 
2Kings15:17 Menahem became king of Israel. It was in the 39th year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Menahem ruled in Samaria for ten years. He was the son of Gadi. 
2Kings15:18 Menahem did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. During his entire rule he didn't turn away from the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins." 
2Kings15:19 Then Tiglath-Pileser marched into the land of Israel. He was king of Assyria. Menahem gave him 37 tons of silver to get his help. He wanted to make his control over the kingdom stronger. 
2Kings15:20 Menahem forced Israel to give him that money. Every wealthy person had to give him 20 ounces of silver. All of it went to the king of Assyria. So he pulled his troops back. He didn't stay in the land anymore. 
2Kings15:21 The other events of the rule of Menahem are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings15:22 Menahem joined the members of his family who had already died. His son Pekahiah became the next king after him. 
2Kings15:23 Pekahiah became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 50th year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Pekahiah ruled for two years. He was the son of Menahem. 
2Kings15:24 Pekahiah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He didn't turn away from the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins." 
2Kings15:25 One of Pekahiah's chief officers was Pekah. He was the son of Remaliah. Pekah made evil plans against Pekahiah. He took 50 men of Gilead with him and killed Pekahiah. He also killed Argob and Arieh. He killed all of them in the safest place in the royal palace at Samaria. So Pekah killed Pekahiah. He became the next king after him. 
2Kings15:26 The other events of the rule of Pekahiah are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings15:27 Pekah became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 52nd year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Pekah ruled for 20 years. He was the son of Remaliah. 
2Kings15:28 Pekah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He didn't turn away from the sins Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, had committed. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit those same sins." 
2Kings15:29 During the rule of Pekah, the king of Israel, Tiglath-Pileser marched into the land again. He was king of Assyria. He took the towns of Ijon, Abel Beth Maacah, Janoah, Kedesh and Hazor. He also took the lands of Gilead and Galilee. That included the whole territory of Naphtali. He took the people away from their own land. He sent them off to Assyria." 
2Kings15:30 Then Hoshea made evil plans against Pekah, the son of Remaliah. Hoshea was the son of Elah. Hoshea attacked Pekah and killed him. Then Hoshea became the next king after him. It was in the 20th year of the rule of Jotham, the son of Uzziah." 
2Kings15:31 The other events of the rule of Pekah are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Israel. 
2Kings15:32 Jotham began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the second year that Pekah was king of Israel. He was the son of Remaliah. Jotham was the son of Uzziah. 
2Kings15:33 Jotham was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 16 years. His mother's name was Jerusha. She was the daughter of Zadok. 
2Kings15:34 Jotham did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Uzziah had done." 
2Kings15:35 But the high places weren't removed. The people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. Jotham rebuilt the Upper Gate of the Lord's temple. 
2Kings15:36 The other events of the rule of Jotham are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings15:37 In those days the Lord began to send Rezin and Pekah against Judah. Rezin was king of Aram. Pekah was the son of Remaliah. 
2Kings15:38 Jotham joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the family tomb in the city of King David. His son Ahaz became the next king after him. 
2Kings16:1 Ahaz began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the 17th year of the rule of Pekah, the son of Remaliah. Ahaz was the son of Jotham." 
2Kings16:2 Ahaz was 20 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 16 years. Ahaz didn't do what was right in the eyes of the Lord his God. He didn't do what King David had done. 
2Kings16:3 He followed the ways of the kings of Israel. He even sacrificed his son in the fire to another god. He followed the practices of the nations. The Lord hated those practices. He had driven out those nations to make room for the people of Israel. 
2Kings16:4 Ahaz offered sacrifices and burned incense at the high places. He also did it on the tops of hills and under every green tree. 
2Kings16:5 Rezin and Pekah marched up to Jerusalem and surrounded it. Rezin was king of Aram. Pekah, the son of Remaliah, was king of Israel. They attacked Ahaz. But they couldn't overpower him." 
2Kings16:6 At that time Rezin, the king of Aram, got back Elath for Aram. He drove out the people of Judah. Then the people of Edom moved into Elath. And they still live there to this very day." 
2Kings16:7 Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-Pileser. He was king of Assyria. The message of Ahaz said, ""I am your servant. You are my master. Come up and save me from the powerful hands of the kings of Aram and Israel. They are attacking me.""" 
2Kings16:8 Ahaz took the silver and gold that were in the Lord's temple. He also took the silver and gold that were among the treasures in the royal palace. He sent all of it as a gift to the king of Assyria. 
2Kings16:9 So the king of Assyria did what Ahaz asked him to do. He attacked the city of Damascus and captured it. He sent its people away to Kir. And he put Rezin to death. 
2Kings16:10 Then King Ahaz went to Damascus. He went there to see Tiglath-Pileser, the king of Assyria. Ahaz saw an altar in Damascus. He sent a drawing of it to the priest Uriah. He also sent him plans for building it." 
2Kings16:11 So the priest Uriah built an altar. He followed all of the plans King Ahaz had sent from Damascus. He finished it before Ahaz returned. 
2Kings16:12 The king came back from Damascus. When he saw the altar, he approached it. Then he offered sacrifices on it." 
2Kings16:13 He offered up his burnt offering and grain offering. He poured out his drink offering. And he sprinkled blood from his friendship offerings on the altar. 
2Kings16:14 The bronze altar for burnt offerings stood in front of the Lord. It was between the new altar and the Lord's temple. Ahaz took it away from the front of the temple. He put it on the north side of the new altar. 
2Kings16:15 Then King Ahaz gave orders to the priest Uriah. He said, ""Offer sacrifices on the large new altar. Offer the morning burnt offering and the evening grain offering. Offer my burnt offering and my grain offering. Offer the burnt offering of all of the people of the land. Offer their grain offering and their drink offering. Sprinkle on the altar all of the blood from the burnt offerings and sacrifices. But I will use the bronze altar to look for advice and direction.""" 
2Kings16:16 The priest Uriah did just as King Ahaz had ordered. 
2Kings16:17 Ahaz took away the sides of the bronze stands. He removed the bowls from the stands. He removed the huge bowl from the bronze bulls it stood on. He placed the bowl on a stone base. 
2Kings16:18 He took away the covered area that had been used on the Sabbath day. It had been built at the Lord's temple. He removed the royal entrance that was outside the temple. Ahaz did all of that to honor the king of Assyria. 
2Kings16:19 The other events of the rule of Ahaz are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings16:20 Ahaz joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the family tomb in the City of David. His son Hezekiah became the next king after him. 
2Kings17:1 Hoshea became king of Israel in Samaria. It was in the 12th year that Ahaz was king of Judah. Hoshea ruled for nine years. He was the son of Elah. 
2Kings17:2 Hoshea did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. But he wasn't as evil as the kings of Israel who ruled before him. 
2Kings17:3 Shalmaneser came up to attack Hoshea. Shalmaneser was king of Assyria. He had been Hoshea's master. He had forced Hoshea to bring him gifts. 
2Kings17:4 But the king of Assyria found out that Hoshea had turned against him. Hoshea had sent messengers to So, the king of Egypt. Hoshea didn't send gifts to the king of Assyria anymore. He had been sending them every year. So Shalmaneser grabbed hold of him and put him in prison." 
2Kings17:5 The king of Assyria marched into the whole land of Israel. He marched to Samaria and surrounded it for three years. From time to time he attacked it. 
2Kings17:6 Finally, the king of Assyria captured Samaria. It was in the ninth year of Hoshea. The king of Assyria took the people of Israel away from their own land. He sent them off to Assyria. He settled some of them in Halah. He settled others in Gozan on the Habor River. And he settled still others in the towns of the Medes." 
2Kings17:7 All of that took place because the people of Israel had committed sins against the Lord their God. He had brought them up out of Egypt. He had brought them out from under the power of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. But they worshiped other gods." 
2Kings17:8 The Lord had driven out other nations to make room for them. But they followed the evil practices of those nations. They also followed the practices that the kings of Israel had started. 
2Kings17:9 The people of Israel did things against the Lord their God in secret. What they did wasn't right. They built high places for worship in all of their towns. They built them at lookout towers. They also built them at cities that had high walls around them. 
2Kings17:10 They set up sacred stones. And they set up poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. They did that on every high hill and under every green tree. 
2Kings17:11 The Lord had driven out nations to make room for Israel. But the people of Israel burned incense at every high place, just as those nations had done. The Israelites did evil things that made the Lord very angry." 
2Kings17:12 They worshiped statues of gods. They did it even though the Lord had said, ""Do not do that.""" 
2Kings17:13 The Lord warned Israel and Judah through all of his prophets and seers. He said, ""Turn from your evil ways. Keep my commands and rules. Obey every part of my Law. I commanded your people who lived long ago to obey it. And I gave it to you through my servants the prophets.""" 
2Kings17:14 But the people wouldn't listen. They were as stubborn as their people of long ago had been. Those people didn't trust in the Lord their God. 
2Kings17:15 They refused to obey his rules. They broke the covenant he had made with them. They didn't pay any attention to the warnings he had given them. They worshiped worthless statues of gods. Then they themselves became worthless. They followed the example of the nations that were around them. They did it even though the Lord had ordered them not to. He had said, ""Do not do as they do."" They did the very things the Lord had told them not to do." 
2Kings17:16 They turned away from all of the commands of the Lord their God. They made two statues of gods for themselves. The statues were shaped like calves. They made a pole that was used to worship the goddess Asherah. They bowed down to all of the stars. And they worshiped the god Baal. 
2Kings17:17 They sacrificed their sons and daughters in the fire. They practiced all kinds of evil magic. They gave themselves over to do what was evil in the sight of the Lord. All of those things made him very angry. 
2Kings17:18 So the Lord was filled with anger against Israel. He removed them from his land. Only the tribe of Judah was left. 
2Kings17:19 And even Judah didn't obey the commands of the Lord their God. They followed the practices Israel had started. 
2Kings17:20 So the Lord turned his back on all of the people of Israel. He made them suffer. He handed them over to people who stole everything they had. And finally he threw them out of his land. 
2Kings17:21 He tore Israel away from the royal house of David. The people of Israel made Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, their king. Jeroboam tried to get Israel to stop following the Lord. He caused them to commit a terrible sin." 
2Kings17:22 The people of Israel were stubborn. They continued to commit all of the sins Jeroboam had committed. They didn't turn away from them. 
2Kings17:23 So the Lord removed them from his land. That's what he had warned them he would do. He had given that warning through all of his servants the prophets. So the people of Israel were taken away from their country. They were forced to go to Assyria. And that's where they still are. 
2Kings17:24 The king of Assyria brought people from Babylon. He also brought them from Cuthah, Avva, Hamath and Sepharvaim. He settled all of them in the towns of Samaria. They took the place of the people of Israel. They took over Samaria and lived in its towns." 
2Kings17:25 When they first lived there, they didn't worship the Lord. So he sent lions among them. And the lions killed some of the people." 
2Kings17:26 A report was given to the king of Assyria. He was told, ""You forced people to leave their own homes. You settled them in the towns of Samaria. But they don't know what the god of that country requires. So he has sent lions among them. And the lions are killing the people off. That's because the people don't know what that god requires.""" 
2Kings17:27 Then the king of Assyria gave an order. He said, ""Get one of the priests you captured from Samaria. Send him back to live there. Have him teach the people what the god of that land requires.""" 
2Kings17:28 So one of the priests went back to live in Bethel. He was one of those who had been forced to leave Samaria. He taught the people there how to worship the Lord. 
2Kings17:29 In spite of that, the people from each nation made statues of their own gods. They made them in all of the towns where they had settled. They set up those statues in small temples. The people of Samaria had built the temples at the high places." 
2Kings17:30 The people from Babylon made statues of the god Succoth Benoth. Those from Cuthah made statues of Nergal. Those from Hamath made statues of Ashima. 
2Kings17:31 The Avvites made statues of Nibhaz and Tartak. The Sepharvites sacrificed their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech. They were the gods of Sepharvaim. 
2Kings17:32 So the people of Samaria worshiped the Lord. But they also appointed all kinds of their own people to serve them as priests. The priests served in the small temples at the high places. 
2Kings17:33 The people worshiped the Lord. But they also served their own gods. They followed the evil practices of the nations from which they had been brought. 
2Kings17:34 They are still stubborn. They continue in their old practices to this very day. And now they don't even worship the Lord. They don't follow his directions and rules. They don't obey his laws and commands. The Lord had given all of those laws to the family of Jacob. He gave the name Israel to Jacob. 
2Kings17:35 The Lord made a covenant with the people of Israel. At that time he commanded them, ""Do not worship any other gods. Do not bow down to them. Do not serve them or sacrifice to them." 
2Kings17:36 I am the one you must worship. I brought you up out of Egypt by my great power. I saved you by reaching out my mighty arm. You must bow down to me. You must offer sacrifices to me. 
2Kings17:37 You must always be careful to follow my directions and rules. You must obey the laws and commands I wrote for you. Do not worship other gods. 
2Kings17:38 Do not forget the covenant I made with you. And remember, you must not worship other gods." 
2Kings17:39 Instead, worship me. I will save you from the powerful hand of all of your enemies. I am the Lord your God.""" 
2Kings17:40 But the people wouldn't listen. Instead, they were stubborn. They continued in their old practices." 
2Kings17:41 They worshiped the Lord. But at the same time, they served the statues of their gods. And to this very day their children and grandchildren continue to do what their people before them did." 
2Kings18:1 Hezekiah began to rule as king over Judah. It was in the third year that Hoshea was king of Israel. He was the son of Elah. Hezekiah was the son of Ahaz. 
2Kings18:2 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Kings18:2 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Kings18:3 Hezekiah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as King David had done." 
2Kings18:4 Hezekiah removed the high places. He smashed the sacred stones. He cut down the poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. He broke into pieces the bronze snake Moses had made. Up to that time the people of Israel had been burning incense to it. They called it Nehushtan. 
2Kings18:5 Hezekiah trusted in the Lord, the God of Israel. There was no one like him among all of the kings of Judah. There was no king like him either before him or after him." 
2Kings18:6 Hezekiah remained true to the Lord. He didn't stop following him. He obeyed the commands the Lord had given Moses. 
2Kings18:7 The Lord was with Hezekiah. He was successful in everything he did. He refused to remain under the control of the king of Assyria. He didn't serve him. 
2Kings18:8 He won the war against the Philistines. He won battles at their lookout towers. He won battles at their cities that had high walls around them. He won battles against the Philistines all the way to Gaza and its territory. 
2Kings18:9 Shalmaneser marched to Samaria and surrounded it. It was in the fourth year of King Hezekiah. That was the seventh year of Hoshea, the king of Israel. He was the son of Elah. Shalmaneser was king of Assyria." 
2Kings18:10 At the end of three years the army of Assyria took Samaria. So it was captured in the sixth year of Hezekiah. That was the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Israel." 
2Kings18:11 The king of Assyria took the people of Israel away from their own land. He sent them off to Assyria. He settled some of them in Halah. He settled others in Gozan on the Habor River. And he settled still others in the towns of the Medes. 
2Kings18:12 Those things happened because the Israelites hadn't obeyed the Lord their God. They had broken the covenant he had made with them. They had refused to do everything Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded. They hadn't paid any attention to those commands. They hadn't obeyed them." 
2Kings18:13 Sennacherib attacked and captured all of the cities of Judah that had high walls around them. It was in the 14th year of the rule of Hezekiah. Sennacherib was king of Assyria. 
2Kings18:14 Hezekiah, the king of Judah, sent a message to the king of Assyria at Lachish. It said, ""I have done what is wrong. Pull your troops back from me. Then I'll pay you anything you ask me to."" The king of Assyria forced Hezekiah, the king of Judah, to give him 11 tons of silver. Hezekiah also had to give him a ton of gold." 
2Kings18:15 So Hezekiah gave him all of the silver that was in the Lord's temple. He also gave him all of the silver that was among the treasures in the royal palace. 
2Kings18:16 Hezekiah, the king of Judah, had covered the doors and doorposts of the Lord's temple with gold. But now he had to strip it off. He had to give it to the king of Assyria." 
2Kings18:17 The king of Assyria sent his highest commander from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem. He also sent his chief officer and his field commander along with a large army. All of them came up to Jerusalem. They stopped at the channel that brings water from the Upper Pool. It was on the road to the Washerman's Field. 
2Kings18:18 They called for King Hezekiah. Eliakim, Shebna and Joah went out to them. Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, was in charge of the palace. Shebna was the secretary. Joah, the son of Asaph, kept the records." 
2Kings18:19 The field commander said to them, ""Give Hezekiah this message. Tell him, "" 'Sennacherib is the great king of Assyria. He says, ""Why are you putting your faith in what your king says?" 
2Kings18:20 You say you have a military plan. You say you have a strong army. But your words don't mean anything. Who are you depending on? Why don't you want to stay under my control? 
2Kings18:21  ' You are depending on Egypt. Why are you doing that? Egypt is nothing but a broken papyrus stem. Try leaning on it. It will only cut your hand. Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, is just like that to everyone who depends on him." 
2Kings18:22  ' Suppose you say to me, 'We are depending on the Lord our God.' Didn't Hezekiah remove your god's high places and altars? Didn't Hezekiah say to the people of Judah and Jerusalem, 'You must worship at the altar in Jerusalem'?" 
2Kings18:23  ' Come on. Make a deal with my master, the king of Assyria. I'll give you 2,000 horses. But only if you can put riders on them!" 
2Kings18:24 You are depending on Egypt for chariots and horsemen. You can't drive away even the least important officer among my master's officials. 
2Kings18:25  ' Besides, do you think I've come without receiving a message from the Lord? Have I come to attack and destroy this place without a message from him? The Lord himself told me to march out against your country. He told me to destroy it."" ' """ 
2Kings18:26 Then Shebna, Joah and Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, spoke to the field commander. They said, ""Please speak to us in the Aramaic language. We understand it. Don't speak to us in Hebrew. If you do, the people who are on the wall will be able to understand you.""" 
2Kings18:27 But the commander replied, ""My master sent me to say these things. Are these words only for your master and you to hear? Aren't they also for the men who are sitting on the wall? They are going to suffer just like you. They'll have to eat their own waste. They'll have to drink their own urine.""" 
2Kings18:28 Then the commander stood up and spoke in the Hebrew language. He called out, ""Pay attention to what the great king of Assyria is telling you." 
2Kings18:29 He says, 'Don't let Hezekiah trick you. He can't save you from my powerful hand." 
2Kings18:30 Don't let Hezekiah talk you into trusting in the Lord. Don't believe him when he says, ""You can be sure that the Lord will save us. This city will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."" '" 
2Kings18:31 Don't listen to Hezekiah. The king of Assyria says, 'Make a peace treaty with me. Come over to my side. Then every one of you will eat fruit from your own vine and fig tree. Every one of you will drink water from your own well." 
2Kings18:32 You will do that until I come back. Then I'll take you to a land that is just like yours. It's a land that has a lot of grain and fresh wine. It has plenty of bread and vineyards. It has olive trees and honey. So choose life! Don't choose death!' Don't pay any attention to Hezekiah. He's telling you a lie when he says, 'The Lord will save us.'" 
2Kings18:33 Has the god of any nation ever saved his land from the powerful hand of the king of Assyria? 
2Kings18:34 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah? Have they saved Samaria from my power?" 
2Kings18:35 Which one of all of the gods of those countries has been able to save his land from me? So how can the Lord save Jerusalem from my power? 
2Kings18:36 But the people remained silent. They didn't say anything. That's because King Hezekiah had commanded, ""Don't answer him.""" 
2Kings18:37 Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, went to Hezekiah. Eliakim was in charge of the palace. The secretary Shebna went with him. So did Joah, the son of Asaph. Joah kept the records. All of them went to Hezekiah with their clothes torn. They told him what the field commander had said." 
2Kings19:1 When King Hezekiah heard what the field commander had said, he tore his clothes. He put on black clothes. Then he went into the Lord's temple." 
2Kings19:2 Hezekiah sent Eliakim, who was in charge of the palace, to the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz. He also sent the leading priests and the secretary Shebna to him. All of them were wearing black clothes." 
2Kings19:2 Hezekiah sent Eliakim, who was in charge of the palace, to the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz. He also sent the leading priests and the secretary Shebna to him. All of them were wearing black clothes." 
2Kings19:3 They told Isaiah, ""Hezekiah says, 'Today we're in great trouble. The Lord is warning us. He's bringing shame on us. Sometimes babies come to the moment when they should be born. But their mothers aren't strong enough to allow them to be born. Today we are like those mothers. We aren't strong enough to save ourselves." 
2Kings19:3 They told Isaiah, ""Hezekiah says, 'Today we're in great trouble. The Lord is warning us. He's bringing shame on us. Sometimes babies come to the moment when they should be born. But their mothers aren't strong enough to allow them to be born. Today we are like those mothers. We aren't strong enough to save ourselves." 
2Kings19:4  'Perhaps the Lord your God will hear everything the field commander has said. His master, the king of Assyria, has sent him to make fun of the living God. Maybe the Lord your God will punish him for what he has heard him say. So pray for the remaining people who are still alive here.' """ 
2Kings19:5 King Hezekiah's officials came to Isaiah. 
2Kings19:5 King Hezekiah's officials came to Isaiah. 
2Kings19:6 Then Isaiah said to them, ""Tell your master, 'The Lord says, ""Do not be afraid of what you have heard. The officers who are under the king of Assyria have spoken evil things against me." 
2Kings19:6 Then Isaiah said to them, ""Tell your master, 'The Lord says, ""Do not be afraid of what you have heard. The officers who are under the king of Assyria have spoken evil things against me." 
2Kings19:7 Listen! I will send him news from his own country. It will upset him so much that he will return home. There I will have him cut down with a sword. ' 
2Kings19:8 The field commander heard that the king of Assyria had left Lachish. So the commander pulled his troops back from Jerusalem. He went to join the king. He found out that the king was fighting against Libnah. 
2Kings19:9 During that time Sennacherib received a report. He was told that Tirhakah was marching out to fight against him. Tirhakah was the king of Egypt. He was from the land of Cush. Sennacherib sent messengers again to Hezekiah with a letter. It said," 
2Kings19:10 Tell Hezekiah, the king of Judah, 'Don't let the god you depend on trick you. He says, ""Jerusalem will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."" But don't believe him." 
2Kings19:11  'I'm sure you have heard about what the kings of Assyria have done to all of the other countries. They have destroyed them completely. So do you think you will be saved? 
2Kings19:12 The kings who ruled before me destroyed many nations. Did the gods of those nations save them? Did the gods of Gozan, Haran or Rezeph save them? What about the gods of the people of Eden who were in Tel Assar?" 
2Kings19:13 Where is the king of Hamath? Where is the king of Arpad? Where is the king of the city of Sepharvaim? Where are the kings of Hena or Ivvah?' 
2Kings19:14 When Hezekiah received the letter from the messengers, he read it. Then he went up to the Lord's temple. There he spread the letter out in front of the Lord." 
2Kings19:15 Hezekiah prayed to the Lord. He said, ""Lord, you are the God of Israel. You sit on your throne between the cherubim. You alone are God over all of the kingdoms on earth. You have made heaven and earth." 
2Kings19:16 Listen, Lord. Hear us. Open your eyes, Lord. Look at the trouble we're in. Listen to what Sennacherib is saying. You are the living God. And he dares to make fun of you!" 
2Kings19:17 Lord, it's true that the kings of Assyria have completely destroyed many nations and their lands." 
2Kings19:18 They have thrown the statues of the gods of those nations into the fire. And they have destroyed them. That's because they weren't really gods at all. They were nothing but statues that were made out of wood and stone. They were made by the hands of men. 
2Kings19:19 Lord our God, save us from the powerful hand of Sennacherib. Then all of the kingdoms on earth will know that you alone are God.""" 
2Kings19:20 Isaiah sent a message to Hezekiah. Isaiah was the son of Amoz. Isaiah said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'I have heard your prayer about Sennacherib, the king of Assyria.'" 
2Kings19:20 Isaiah sent a message to Hezekiah. Isaiah was the son of Amoz. Isaiah said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'I have heard your prayer about Sennacherib, the king of Assyria.'" 
2Kings19:21 Here is the message the Lord has spoken against him. The Lord says, "" 'You will not win the battle over Zion. Its people hate you and make fun of you. The people of Jerusalem lift up their heads proudly as you run away." 
2Kings19:22 Who have you laughed at? Who have you spoken evil things against? Who have you raised your voice against? Who have you looked at so proudly? You have done it against me. I am the Holy One of Israel! 
2Kings19:23 Through your messengers you have laughed at me again and again. And you have said, ""I have many chariots. With them I have climbed to the tops of the mountains. I've climbed the highest mountains in Lebanon. I've cut down its tallest cedar trees. I've cut down the best of its pine trees. I've reached its farthest parts. I've reached its finest forests." 
2Kings19:24 I've dug wells in strange lands. I've drunk the water from them. I've walked through all of Egypt's streams. I've dried up every one of them. 
2Kings19:25  'But I, the Lord, say, ""Haven't you heard what I have done? Long ago I arranged for you to do all of that. In days of old I planned it. Now I have made it happen. You have turned cities with high walls into piles of stone." 
2Kings19:26 Their people do not have any power left. They are troubled and put to shame. They are like plants in the field. They are like new green plants. They are like grass that grows on a roof. It dries up before it is completely grown. 
2Kings19:27  ' But I know where you live. I know when you come and go. I know how very angry you are with me. 
2Kings19:28 You roar against me and brag. And I have heard your bragging. So I will put my hook in your nose. I will put my bit in your mouth. And I will make you go home by the same way you came. ' 
2Kings19:29 The Lord said, ""Hezekiah, here is a miraculous sign for you. ""This year you will eat what grows by itself. In the second year you will eat what grows from that. But in the third year you will plant your crops and gather them in. You will plant your grapevines and eat their fruit." 
2Kings19:30 The people of Judah who are still alive will be like plants. Once more they will put down roots and produce fruit. 
2Kings19:31 Out of Jerusalem will come those who remain. Out of Mount Zion will come those who are still left alive. My great love will make sure that happens. I rule over all. 
2Kings19:32 Here is a message from me about the king of Assyria. It says, "" 'He will not enter this city. He will not even shoot an arrow at it. He will not come near it with a shield. He will not build a ramp in order to climb over its walls." 
2Kings19:33 By the same way he came he will go home. He will not enter this city,' announces the Lord." 
2Kings19:34  'I will guard this city and save it. I will do it for myself. And I will do it for my servant David.' 
2Kings19:35 That night the angel of the Lord went into the camp of the Assyrians. He put to death 185,000 soldiers there. The people of Jerusalem got up the next morning. They looked out and saw all of the dead bodies." 
2Kings19:36 So Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, took the army tents down. Then he left. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there." 
2Kings19:37 One day Sennacherib was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisroch. His sons Adrammelech and Sharezer cut him down with their swords. Then they escaped to the land of Ararat. Esarhaddon became the next king after his father Sennacherib. 
2Kings20:1 In those days Hezekiah became very sick. He knew he was about to die. The prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, went to him. Isaiah told Hezekiah, ""The Lord says, 'Put everything in order. Make out your will. You are going to die soon. You will not get well again.' """ 
2Kings20:1 In those days Hezekiah became very sick. He knew he was about to die. The prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, went to him. Isaiah told Hezekiah, ""The Lord says, 'Put everything in order. Make out your will. You are going to die soon. You will not get well again.' """ 
2Kings20:2 Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall. He prayed to the Lord. He said," 
2Kings20:3 Lord, please remember how faithful I've been to you. I've lived the way you wanted me to. I've served you with all my heart. I've done what is good in your sight."" And Hezekiah cried bitterly." 
2Kings20:4 Isaiah was leaving the middle courtyard. Before he had left it, a message came to him from the Lord. He said," 
2Kings20:4 Isaiah was leaving the middle courtyard. Before he had left it, a message came to him from the Lord. He said," 
2Kings20:5 Go back and speak to Hezekiah. He is the leader of my people. Tell him, 'The Lord, the God of King David, says, ""I have heard your prayer. I have seen your tears. And I will heal you. On the third day from now you will go up to my temple." 
2Kings20:6 I will add 15 years to your life. And I will save you and this city from the powerful hand of the king of Assyria. I will guard this city. I will do it for myself. And I will do it for my servant David. ' 
2Kings20:7 Then Isaiah said, ""Press some figs together. Spread them on a piece of cloth."" So that's what they did. Then they applied it to Hezekiah's boil. And he got well again." 
2Kings20:7 Then Isaiah said, ""Press some figs together. Spread them on a piece of cloth."" So that's what they did. Then they applied it to Hezekiah's boil. And he got well again." 
2Kings20:8 Hezekiah had said to Isaiah, ""You say the Lord will heal me. You say that I'll go up to his temple on the third day from now. What will the miraculous sign be to prove he'll really do that?""" 
2Kings20:8 Hezekiah had said to Isaiah, ""You say the Lord will heal me. You say that I'll go up to his temple on the third day from now. What will the miraculous sign be to prove he'll really do that?""" 
2Kings20:9 Isaiah answered, ""The Lord will do what he has promised. Here is his sign to you. Do you want the shadow the sun makes to go forward ten steps? Or do you want it to go back ten steps?""" 
2Kings20:9 Isaiah answered, ""The Lord will do what he has promised. Here is his sign to you. Do you want the shadow the sun makes to go forward ten steps? Or do you want it to go back ten steps?""" 
2Kings20:10 It's easy for the shadow to go forward ten steps,"" said Hezekiah. ""So have it go back ten steps.""" 
2Kings20:11 Then the prophet Isaiah called out to the Lord. And the Lord made the shadow go back ten steps. It went back the ten steps it had gone down on the stairway Ahaz had made. 
2Kings20:11 Then the prophet Isaiah called out to the Lord. And the Lord made the shadow go back ten steps. It went back the ten steps it had gone down on the stairway Ahaz had made. 
2Kings20:12 At that time Merodach-Baladan, the king of Babylonia, sent Hezekiah letters and a gift. He had heard that Hezekiah had been sick. Merodach-Baladan was the son of Baladan." 
2Kings20:13 Hezekiah received the messengers. He showed them everything that was in his storerooms. He showed them the silver and gold. He showed them the spices and the fine olive oil. He showed them where he kept his weapons. And he showed them all of his treasures. In fact, he showed them everything that was in his palace and in his whole kingdom." 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah. He asked him, ""What did those men say? Where did they come from?"" ""They came from a land far away,"" Hezekiah said. ""They came from Babylon.""" 
2Kings20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet went to King Hezekiah. He asked him, ""What did those men say? Where did they come from?"" ""They came from a land far away,"" Hezekiah said. ""They came from Babylon.""" 
2Kings20:15 The prophet asked, ""What did they see in your palace?"" ""They saw everything in my palace,"" Hezekiah said. ""I showed them all of my treasures.""" 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, ""Listen to the Lord's message. He says," 
2Kings20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, ""Listen to the Lord's message. He says," 
2Kings20:17 'You can be sure the time will come when everything in your palace will be carried off to Babylon. Everything the kings before you have stored up until this day will be taken away. There will not be anything left,' says the Lord." 
2Kings20:18 'Some of the members of your family line will be taken away. They will be your own flesh and blood. They will include the children who will be born into your family line in years to come. And they will serve the king of Babylonia in his palace.' 
2Kings20:19 The message the Lord has spoken through you is good,"" Hezekiah replied. He thought, ""There will be peace and safety while I'm still living.""" 
2Kings20:20 The other events of the rule of Hezekiah are written down. Everything he accomplished is written down. That includes how he made the pool and the tunnel. He used them to bring water into Jerusalem. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings20:21 Hezekiah joined the members of his family who had already died. His son Manasseh became the next king after him. 
2Kings21:1 Manasseh was 12 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 55 years. His mother's name was Hephzibah. 
2Kings21:2 Manasseh did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He followed the practices of the nations. The Lord hated those practices. He had driven those nations out to make room for the people of Israel. 
2Kings21:3 Manasseh rebuilt the high places. His father Hezekiah had destroyed them. Manasseh also set up altars to the god Baal. He made a pole that was used to worship the goddess Asherah. Ahab, the king of Israel, had done those same things. Manasseh even bowed down to all of the stars. And he worshiped them." 
2Kings21:4 He built altars in the Lord's temple. The Lord had said about his temple, ""I will put my Name there in Jerusalem.""" 
2Kings21:5 In both courtyards of the Lord's temple Manasseh built altars to honor all of the stars. 
2Kings21:6 He sacrificed his own son in the fire to another god. He practiced all kinds of evil magic. He got messages from those who had died. He talked to the spirits of the dead. He did many things that were evil in the sight of the Lord. He made him very angry. 
2Kings21:7 Manasseh had carved a pole for worshiping Asherah. He put it in the temple. The Lord had spoken to David and his son Solomon about the temple. He had said, ""My Name will be in this temple and in Jerusalem forever. Out of all of the cities in the tribes of Israel I have chosen Jerusalem." 
2Kings21:8 I gave this land to your people who lived long ago. I will not make the Israelites wander away from it again. But they must be careful to do everything I commanded them. They must obey the whole Law that my servant Moses gave them. 
2Kings21:9 But the people didn't pay any attention. Manasseh led them down the wrong path. They did more evil things than the nations the Lord had destroyed to make room for the people of Israel. 
2Kings21:10 The Lord spoke through his servants the prophets. He said," 
2Kings21:11 Manasseh, the king of Judah, has committed terrible sins. I hate them. Manasseh has done more evil things than the Amorites who were in the land before him. And he has led Judah to commit sin by worshiping his statues of gods." 
2Kings21:12 I am the God of Israel. I tell you, 'I am going to bring trouble on Jerusalem and Judah. It will be so horrible that the ears of everyone who hears about it will ring." 
2Kings21:13 I will measure out punishment against Jerusalem, just as I did against Samaria. I used a plumb line against the royal family of Ahab to prove that they did not measure up to my standards. I will use the same plumb line against Jerusalem. I will wipe out Jerusalem, just as someone wipes a dish. I will wipe it and turn it upside down." 
2Kings21:14 I will desert those who remain among my people. I will hand them over to their enemies. All of their enemies will rob them. 
2Kings21:15  'That is because my people have done what is evil in my sight. They have made me very angry. They have done that from the day their own people came out of Egypt until this very day.' 
2Kings21:16 Manasseh also spilled the blood of many people who weren't guilty of doing anything wrong. He spilled so much blood that he filled Jerusalem with it from one end of the city to the other. And he caused Judah to commit sin. So they also did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. 
2Kings21:17 The other events of the rule of Manasseh are written down. Everything he did is written down. That includes the sin he committed. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings21:18 Manasseh joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in his palace garden. It was called the garden of Uzza. Manasseh's son Amon became the next king after him. 
2Kings21:19 Amon was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for two years. His mother's name was Meshullemeth. She was the daughter of Haruz. She was from Jotbah. 
2Kings21:20 Amon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, just as his father Manasseh had done." 
2Kings21:21 He lived the way his father had lived. He worshiped the statues of the gods his father had worshiped. He bowed down to them. 
2Kings21:22 He deserted the Lord, the God of his people. He didn't live the way the Lord wanted him to." 
2Kings21:23 Amon's officials made plans against him. They murdered the king in his palace. 
2Kings21:24 Then the people of the land killed all those who had made plans against King Amon. They made his son Josiah king in his place. 
2Kings21:25 The other events of the rule of Amon are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings21:26 Amon's body was buried in his grave in the garden of Uzza. His son Josiah became the next king after him. 
2Kings22:1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 31 years. His mother's name was Jedidah. She was the daughter of Adaiah. She was from Bozkath. 
2Kings22:2 Josiah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He lived the way King David had lived. He didn't turn away from it to the right or the left. 
2Kings22:3 King Josiah sent his secretary Shaphan to the Lord's temple. It was in the 18th year of Josiah's rule. Shaphan was the son of Azaliah. Azaliah was the son of Meshullam. Josiah said," 
2Kings22:4 Go up to the high priest Hilkiah. Have him add up the money that has been brought into the Lord's temple. Those who guard the doors have collected it from the people. 
2Kings22:5 Have them put all of the money in the care of the men who have been put in charge of the work on the Lord's temple. Have them pay the workers who repair it. 
2Kings22:6 Have them pay the builders and those who work with wood. Have them pay those who lay the stones. Also have them buy lumber and blocks of stone to repair the temple. 
2Kings22:7 But they don't have to report how they use the money that is given to them. That's because they are completely honest. 
2Kings22:8 The high priest Hilkiah spoke to the secretary Shaphan. He said, ""I've found the Scroll of the Law in the Lord's temple."" He gave it to Shaphan, who read it." 
2Kings22:9 Then Shaphan went to King Josiah. He told him, ""Your officials have paid out the money that was in the Lord's temple. They've put it in the care of the workers and directors there.""" 
2Kings22:10 Shaphan continued, ""The priest Hilkiah has given me a scroll."" Shaphan read some of it to the king." 
2Kings22:11 The king heard the words of the Scroll of the Law. When he did, he tore his royal robes." 
2Kings22:12 He gave orders to the priest Hilkiah, Ahikam, Acbor, the secretary Shaphan and Asaiah. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan. Acbor was the son of Micaiah. And Asaiah was the king's attendant. Josiah commanded them," 
2Kings22:13 Go. Ask the Lord for advice. Ask him about what is written in this scroll that has been found. Do it for me. Also do it for the people and the whole nation of Judah. The Lord's anger is burning against us. That's because our people before us didn't obey the words of this scroll. They didn't do everything that is written there about us. 
2Kings22:14 The priest Hilkiah went to speak to the prophet Huldah. So did Ahikam, Acbor, Shaphan and Asaiah. Huldah was the wife of Shallum. Shallum was the son of Tikvah. Tikvah was the son of Harhas. Shallum took care of the sacred robes. Huldah lived in the New Quarter of Jerusalem." 
2Kings22:15 She said to them, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'Tell the man who sent you to me," 
2Kings22:16 The Lord says, 'I am going to bring horrible trouble on this place and its people. Everything that is written in the scroll the king of Judah has read will take place." 
2Kings22:17  '  'That is because the people have deserted me. They have burned incense to other gods. They have made me very angry because of the statues of gods their hands have made. So my anger will burn against this place. The fire of my anger will not be put out.'  ' 
2Kings22:18 The king of Judah sent you to ask the Lord for advice. Tell him, 'The Lord is the God of Israel. He has a message for you about the things you heard. He says," 
2Kings22:19 Your heart was tender. You made yourself low in my sight. You heard what I spoke against this place and its people. I said they would be under a curse. I told them they would be destroyed. You tore your royal robes and sobbed. And I have heard you,"" announces the Lord." 
2Kings22:20  ' You will join the members of your family who have already died. Your body will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all of the trouble I am going to bring on this place. '  Huldah's answer was taken back to the king. 
2Kings23:1 Then the king called together all of the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 
2Kings23:2 He went up to the Lord's temple. The people of Judah and Jerusalem went with him. So did the priests and prophets. All of them went, from the least important of them to the most important. The king had all of the words of the Scroll of the Covenant read to them. The scroll had been found in the Lord's temple." 
2Kings23:3 The king stood next to his pillar. He agreed to the terms of the covenant in front of the Lord. He promised to follow him and obey his commands, directions and rules. He promised to obey them with all his heart and with all his soul. So he agreed to the terms of the covenant that were written down in that scroll. Then all of the people committed themselves to the covenant." 
2Kings23:4 Certain articles that were in the Lord's temple had been made to honor the god Baal and the goddess Asherah and all of the stars in the sky. The king ordered the high priest Hilkiah to remove those articles. He ordered the priests who were under him and the men who guarded the doors to help Hilkiah. Josiah burned the articles outside Jerusalem. He burned them in the fields in the Kidron Valley. And he took the ashes to Bethel. 
2Kings23:5 He got rid of the priests who served other gods. The kings of Judah had appointed them to burn incense. They burned the incense on the high places of the towns of Judah. And they burned it on the high places around Jerusalem. They burned incense to honor Baal and the sun and moon. They burned it to honor all of the stars. 
2Kings23:6 Josiah removed the Asherah pole from the Lord's temple. It had been used to worship Asherah. He took it to the Kidron Valley outside Jerusalem. There he burned it. He ground it into powder. And he scattered it over the graves of the ordinary people. 
2Kings23:7 He also tore down the rooms where the male temple prostitutes stayed. Those rooms were in the Lord's temple. The women had made cloth for Asherah in them. 
2Kings23:8 Josiah brought all of the priests from the towns of Judah and destroyed the high places. He destroyed them from Geba all the way to Beersheba. The priests had burned incense on them. Josiah broke down the high places at the gates. That included the high place at the entrance of the Gate of Joshua. It was on the left side of one of Jerusalem's gates. Joshua was the city governor. 
2Kings23:8 Josiah brought all of the priests from the towns of Judah and destroyed the high places. He destroyed them from Geba all the way to Beersheba. The priests had burned incense on them. Josiah broke down the high places at the gates. That included the high place at the entrance of the Gate of Joshua. It was on the left side of one of Jerusalem's gates. Joshua was the city governor. 
2Kings23:9 The priests of the high places didn't serve at the Lord's altar in Jerusalem. In spite of that, they ate with the other priests. All of them ate bread that was made without yeast." 
2Kings23:10 Josiah destroyed the high places at Topheth in the Valley of Ben Hinnom. He didn't want anyone to use them to sacrifice his son or daughter in the fire to the god Molech. 
2Kings23:11 He removed the statues of horses from the entrance to the Lord's temple. The kings of Judah had set them apart to honor the sun. The statues were in the courtyard. They were near the room of an official named Nathan-Melech. Josiah burned the chariots that had been set apart to honor the sun. 
2Kings23:12 He pulled down the altars the kings of Judah had set up. They had put them on the palace roof near the upstairs room of Ahaz. Josiah also pulled down the altars Manasseh had built. They were in the two courtyards of the Lord's temple. Josiah removed the altars from there. He smashed them to pieces. Then he threw the broken pieces into the Kidron Valley. 
2Kings23:13 The king also destroyed the high places that were east of Jerusalem. They were at the southern end of the Mount of Olives. They were the ones Solomon, the king of Israel, had built. He had built a high place for worshiping Ashtoreth. She was the evil goddess of the people of Sidon. Solomon had also built one for worshiping Chemosh. He was the evil god of Moab. And Solomon had built one for worshiping Molech. He was the god of the people of Ammon. The Lord hated that god." 
2Kings23:14 Josiah smashed the sacred stones. He cut down the poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. Then he covered all of those places with human bones. 
2Kings23:15 There was an altar at Bethel. It was at the high place that had been made by Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. Jeroboam had caused Israel to commit sin. Even that altar and high place were destroyed by Josiah. He burned the high place. He ground it into powder. He also burned the Asherah pole." 
2Kings23:16 Then Josiah looked around. He saw the tombs that were on the side of the hill. He had the bones removed from them. And he burned them on the altar to make it unclean. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken that message through a man of God. The man had announced those things long before they took place. 
2Kings23:17 The king asked, ""What's that stone on the grave over there?"" The men of the city said, ""It marks the tomb where the body of a man of God is buried. He came from Judah. He spoke against the altar at Bethel. He announced the very things you have done to it.""" 
2Kings23:18 Leave it alone,"" Josiah said. ""Don't let anyone touch his bones."" So they spared his bones. They also spared the bones of the prophet who had come from the northern kingdom of Israel." 
2Kings23:19 Josiah did in the rest of the northern kingdom the same things he had done at Bethel. He removed all of the small temples at the high places. He made them unclean. The kings of Israel had built them in the towns of the northern kingdom. The people in those towns had made the Lord very angry. 
2Kings23:20 Josiah killed all of the priests of those high places on the altars. He burned human bones on the altars. Then he went back to Jerusalem. 
2Kings23:21 The king gave an order to all of the people. He said, ""Celebrate the Passover Feast to honor the Lord your God. Do what is written in this Scroll of the Covenant.""" 
2Kings23:22 A Passover Feast like that one had not been held for a long time. There hadn't been any like it since the days of the judges who led Israel. And there hadn't been any like it during the whole time the kings of Israel and Judah were ruling. 
2Kings23:23 King Josiah celebrated the Passover in Jerusalem to honor the Lord. It was in the 18th year of his rule. 
2Kings23:24 And that's not all. Josiah got rid of those who got messages from people who had died. He got rid of those who talked to the spirits of the dead. He got rid of the statues of family gods and the statues of other gods. He got rid of everything else the Lord hates that was in Judah and Jerusalem. He did it to carry out what the law required. That law was written in the scroll the priest Hilkiah had found in the Lord's temple. 
2Kings23:25 There was no king like Josiah either before him or after him. None of them turned to the Lord as he did. He followed the Lord with all his heart and all his soul. He followed him with all his strength. He did everything the Law of Moses required. 
2Kings23:26 In spite of that, the Lord didn't turn away from his burning anger. It blazed out against Judah. That's because of everything Manasseh had done to make him very angry." 
2Kings23:27 So the Lord said, ""I will remove Judah from my land. I will do to them what I did to Israel. I will turn my back on Jerusalem. It is the city I chose. I will also turn my back on this temple. I spoke about it. I said, 'I will put my Name here.' "",(1 Kings 8:29)" 
2Kings23:28 The other events of the rule of Josiah are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings23:29 Pharaoh Neco was king of Egypt. He marched up to the Euphrates River. He went there to help the king of Assyria. It happened while Josiah was king. Josiah marched out to meet Neco in battle. When Neco saw him at Megiddo, he killed him." 
2Kings23:30 Josiah's servants brought his body in a chariot from Megiddo to Jerusalem. They buried his body in his own tomb. Then the people of the land went and got Jehoahaz. They anointed him as king in place of his father Josiah. 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was 23 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for three months. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah. She was from Libnah. 
2Kings23:31 Jehoahaz was 23 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for three months. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah. She was from Libnah. 
2Kings23:32 Jehoahaz did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did just as the kings who had ruled before him had done. 
2Kings23:33 Pharaoh Neco put him in chains at Riblah in the land of Hamath. That kept him from ruling in Jerusalem. Neco made the people of Judah pay him a tax of almost four tons of silver and 75 pounds of gold. 
2Kings23:34 Pharaoh Neco made Eliakim king in place of his father Josiah. He changed Eliakim's name to Jehoiakim. But he took Jehoahaz with him to Egypt. And that's where Jehoahaz died. 
2Kings23:35 Jehoiakim paid Pharaoh Neco the silver and gold he required. To get the money, Jehoiakim taxed the land. He forced the people to give him the silver and gold. He made each one pay him what he required." 
2Kings23:36 Jehoiakim was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Zebidah. She was the daughter of Pedaiah. She was from Rumah. 
2Kings23:37 Jehoiakim did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did just as the kings who had ruled before him had done. 
2Kings24:1 During Jehoiakim's rule, Nebuchadnezzar marched into the land and attacked it. He was king of Babylonia. He became Jehoiakim's master for three years. But then Jehoiakim decided he didn't want to remain under Nebuchadnezzar's control." 
2Kings24:2 The Lord sent robbers against Jehoiakim from Babylonia, Aram, Moab and Ammon. He sent them to destroy Judah. That's what the Lord had said would happen. He had spoken that message through his servants the prophets." 
2Kings24:3 Those things happened to Judah in keeping with what the Lord had commanded. He brought enemies against his people in order to remove them from his land. He removed them because of all of the sins Manasseh had committed. 
2Kings24:4 He had spilled the blood of many people who weren't guilty of doing anything wrong. In fact, he spilled so much of their blood that he filled Jerusalem with it. So the Lord refused to forgive him." 
2Kings24:5 The other events of the rule of Jehoiakim are written down. Everything he did is written down. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Judah. 
2Kings24:6 Jehoiakim joined the members of his family who had already died. His son Jehoiachin became the next king after him. 
2Kings24:7 The king of Egypt didn't march out from his own country again. That's because the king of Babylonia had taken so much of his territory. That territory reached from the Wadi of Egypt all the way to the Euphrates River. 
2Kings24:8 Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for three months. His mother's name was Nehushta. She was the daughter of Elnathan. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Kings24:9 Jehoiachin did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did just as his father Jehoiakim had done. 
2Kings24:10 At that time the officers of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, marched to Jerusalem. They surrounded it and got ready to attack it." 
2Kings24:11 Nebuchadnezzar himself came up to the city. He arrived while his officers were attacking it. 
2Kings24:12 Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, handed himself over to him. Jehoiachin's mother did the same thing. And so did all of his attendants, nobles and officials. The king of Babylonia took Jehoiachin away as his prisoner. It was in the eighth year of Nebuchadnezzar's rule." 
2Kings24:13 He removed all of the treasures from the Lord's temple. He also removed all of the treasures from the royal palace. He took away all of the gold articles that Solomon, the king of Israel, had made for the temple. That's what the Lord had announced would happen." 
2Kings24:14 Nebuchadnezzar took all of the people of Jerusalem to Babylonia as prisoners. That included all of the officers and fighting men. It also included all of the skilled workers. The total number of prisoners was 10,000. Only the poorest people were left in the land." 
2Kings24:15 Nebuchadnezzar took Jehoiachin to Babylon as his prisoner. He also took the king's mother from Jerusalem to Babylon. And he took Jehoiachin's wives, his officials and the most important men in the land." 
2Kings24:16 The king also forced the whole army of 7,000 soldiers to go away to Babylonia. Those men were strong and able to go to war. And the king forced 1,000 skilled workers to go to Babylonia." 
2Kings24:17 Nebuchadnezzar made Jehoiachin's uncle Mattaniah king in his place. And he changed Mattaniah's name to Zedekiah. 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah. She was from Libnah. 
2Kings24:18 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah. She was from Libnah. 
2Kings24:19 Zedekiah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did just as Jehoiakim had done. 
2Kings24:20 The enemies of Jerusalem and Judah attacked them because the Lord was angry. In the end he threw them out of his land. Zedekiah also refused to remain under the control of Nebuchadnezzar. 
2Kings25:1 Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. He marched out against Jerusalem. All of his armies went with him. It was in the ninth year of the rule of Zedekiah. It was on the tenth day of the tenth month. Nebuchadnezzar set up camp outside the city. He brought in war machines all around it. 
2Kings25:2 It was surrounded until the 11th year of King Zedekiah's rule. 
2Kings25:3 By the ninth day of the fourth month, there wasn't any food left in the city. So the people didn't have anything to eat." 
2Kings25:4 Then the Babylonians broke through the city wall. Judah's whole army ran away at night. They went out through the gate between the two walls that were near the king's garden. They escaped even though the Babylonians surrounded the city. Judah's army ran toward the Arabah Valley. 
2Kings25:5 But the armies of Babylonia chased King Zedekiah. They caught up with him in the flatlands near Jericho. All of his soldiers were separated from him. They had scattered in every direction. 
2Kings25:6 The king was captured. He was taken to the king of Babylonia at Riblah. That's where Nebuchadnezzar decided how he would be punished. 
2Kings25:7 His men killed the sons of Zedekiah. They forced him to watch it with his own eyes. Then they poked out his eyes. They put him in bronze chains. And they took him to Babylon. 
2Kings25:8 Nebuzaradan was an official of the king of Babylonia. In fact, he was commander of the royal guard. He came to Jerusalem. It was in the 19th year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. It was on the seventh day of the fifth month." 
2Kings25:9 Nebuzaradan set the Lord's temple on fire. He also set fire to the royal palace and all of the houses in Jerusalem. He burned down every important building. 
2Kings25:10 The armies of Babylonia broke down the walls around Jerusalem. That's what the commander told them to do. 
2Kings25:11 Some people still remained in the city. But the commander Nebuzaradan took them away as prisoners. He also took the rest of the people of the land. That included those who had joined the king of Babylonia. 
2Kings25:12 But the commander left some of the poorest people of the land behind. He told them to work in the vineyards and fields. 
2Kings25:13 The armies of Babylonia destroyed the Lord's temple. They broke the bronze pillars into pieces. They broke up the bronze stands that could be moved around. And they broke up the huge bronze bowl. Then they carried the bronze away to Babylon. 
2Kings25:14 They also took away the pots, shovels, wick cutters and dishes. They took away all of the bronze articles that were used for any purpose in the temple." 
2Kings25:15 The commander of the royal guard took away the shallow cups for burning incense. He took away the sprinkling bowls. So he took away everything that was made out of pure gold or silver. 
2Kings25:16 The bronze was more than anyone could weigh. It included the bronze from the two pillars. It also included the bronze from the huge bowl and the stands. Solomon had made all of those things for the Lord's temple. 
2Kings25:17 Each pillar was 27 feet high. The bronze top of one pillar was four and a half feet high. It was decorated with a set of bronze chains and pomegranates all around it. The other pillar was just like it. It also had a set of chains. 
2Kings25:18 The commander of the guard took some prisoners. They included the chief priest Seraiah and the priest Zephaniah who was under him. They also included the three men who guarded the temple doors. 
2Kings25:18 The commander of the guard took some prisoners. They included the chief priest Seraiah and the priest Zephaniah who was under him. They also included the three men who guarded the temple doors. 
2Kings25:19 Some people were still left in the city. The commander took as a prisoner the officer who was in charge of the fighting men. He took the five men who gave advice to the king. He also took the secretary who was the chief officer in charge of getting the people of the land to serve in the army. And he took 60 of the secretary's men who were still in the city. 
2Kings25:20 The commander Nebuzaradan took all of them away. He brought them to the king of Babylonia at Riblah. 
2Kings25:21 There the king had them put to death. Riblah was in the land of Hamath. So the people of Judah were taken as prisoners. They were taken far away from their own land. 
2Kings25:22 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, appointed Gedaliah to be over the people he had left behind in Judah. Gedaliah was the son of Ahikam. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan." 
2Kings25:23 All of Judah's army officers and their men heard about what had happened. They heard that the king had appointed Gedaliah as governor. So they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, came. So did Johanan, the son of Kareah. Seraiah, the son of Tanhumeth, also came. And so did Jaazaniah, the son of the Maacathite. All of their men came too. Seraiah was from Netophah." 
2Kings25:24 Gedaliah took an oath to give hope to all of those men. He spoke in a kind way to them. He said, ""Don't be afraid of the officials from Babylonia. Settle down in the land of Judah. Serve the king of Babylonia. Then things will go well with you.""" 
2Kings25:25 But in the seventh month Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, came with ten men. He killed Gedaliah. He also killed the people of Judah and Babylonia who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah. Nethaniah was the son of Elishama. Ishmael was a member of the royal family." 
2Kings25:26 After he had killed Gedaliah, all of the people ran away to Egypt. Everyone from the least important of them to the most important ran away. The army officers went with them. All of them went to Egypt because they were afraid of the Babylonians." 
2Kings25:27 Evil-Merodach set Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, free from prison. It was in the 37th year after Jehoiachin had been taken away to Babylon. It was also the year Evil-Merodach became king of Babylonia. It was on the 27th day of the 12th month." 
2Kings25:28 Evil-Merodach spoke kindly to Jehoiachin. He gave him a place of honor. Other kings were with Jehoiachin in Babylon. But his place was more important than theirs. 
2Kings25:29 So Jehoiachin put his prison clothes away. For the rest of Jehoiachin's life the king provided what he needed. 
2Kings25:30 The king did that for Jehoiachin day by day as long as he lived. 
1Chronicles1:1 Adam, Seth, Enosh," 
1Chronicles1:2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared," 
1Chronicles1:3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, Noah." 
1Chronicles1:4 The sons of Noah were Shem, Ham and Japheth." 
1Chronicles1:5 The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras." 
1Chronicles1:6 The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah." 
1Chronicles1:7 The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim and the Rodanites." 
1Chronicles1:8 The sons of Ham were Cush, Egypt, Put and Canaan." 
1Chronicles1:9 The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:10 Cush was the father of Nimrod. Nimrod grew up to be a mighty hero on the earth. 
1Chronicles1:11 Egypt was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites and Naphtuhites." 
1Chronicles1:12 He was also the father of the Pathrusites, Casluhites and Caphtorites. The Philistines came from the Casluhites." 
1Chronicles1:13 Canaan was the father of Sidon. Sidon was his oldest son. Canaan was also the father of the Hittites," 
1Chronicles1:14 Jebusites, Amorites and Girgashites." 
1Chronicles1:15 And he was the father of the Hivites, Arkites, Sinites," 
1Chronicles1:16 Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites." 
1Chronicles1:17 The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram. The sons of Aram were Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech." 
1Chronicles1:18 Arphaxad was the father of Shelah. Shelah was the father of Eber. 
1Chronicles1:19 Eber was the father of two sons. One was named Peleg. The earth was divided up in his time. His brother was named Joktan. 
1Chronicles1:20 Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth and Jerah." 
1Chronicles1:21 He was also the father of Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah," 
1Chronicles1:22 Obal, Abimael, Sheba," 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All of them were sons of Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:23 Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All of them were sons of Joktan." 
1Chronicles1:24 Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah," 
1Chronicles1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu," 
1Chronicles1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah," 
1Chronicles1:27 Abram. Abram was also called Abraham. 
1Chronicles1:28 The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael. 
1Chronicles1:29 Here are the members of the family line of Hagar. Nebaioth was Ishmael's oldest son. Then came Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam," 
1Chronicles1:30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema," 
1Chronicles1:31 Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah. All of them were Ishmael's sons." 
1Chronicles1:32 Here are the sons that were born to Abraham's concubine Keturah. They were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan." 
1Chronicles1:33 The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida and Eldaah. All of them came from Keturah." 
1Chronicles1:34 Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel. 
1Chronicles1:35 The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah." 
1Chronicles1:36 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam and Kenaz. Timna had Amalek by Eliphaz." 
1Chronicles1:37 The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah." 
1Chronicles1:38 The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan." 
1Chronicles1:39 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam. Timna was Lotan's sister. 
1Chronicles1:40 The sons of Shobal were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam. The sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah." 
1Chronicles1:41 The son of Anah was Dishon. The sons of Dishon were Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Keran." 
1Chronicles1:42 The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan. The sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran." 
1Chronicles1:43 Before Israel had a king, there were kings who ruled in Edom. Bela was the son of Beor. Bela's city was called Dinhabah." 
1Chronicles1:44 When Bela died, Jobab became the next king. Jobab was the son of Zerah from Bozrah." 
1Chronicles1:44 When Bela died, Jobab became the next king. Jobab was the son of Zerah from Bozrah." 
1Chronicles1:45 When Jobab died, Husham became the next king. Husham was from the land of the people of Teman." 
1Chronicles1:45 When Jobab died, Husham became the next king. Husham was from the land of the people of Teman." 
1Chronicles1:46 When Husham died, Hadad became the next king. Hadad was the son of Bedad. Hadad had won the battle over Midian in the country of Moab. Hadad's city was called Avith." 
1Chronicles1:47 When Hadad died, Samlah became the next king. Samlah was from Masrekah." 
1Chronicles1:48 When Samlah died, Shaul became the next king. Shaul was from Rehoboth on the river." 
1Chronicles1:49 When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan became the next king. Baal-Hanan was the son of Acbor." 
1Chronicles1:50 When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad became the next king. Hadad's city was called Pau. His wife's name was Mehetabel. She was the daughter of Matred. Matred was the daughter of Me-Zahab." 
1Chronicles1:51 Hadad also died. The chiefs of Edom were Timna, Alvah, Jetheth," 
1Chronicles1:52 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon," 
1Chronicles1:53 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar," 
1Chronicles1:54 Magdiel and Iram. They were the chiefs of Edom. 
1Chronicles2:1 Here are the names of the sons of Israel. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun," 
1Chronicles2:2 Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, Asher." 
1Chronicles2:3 The sons of Judah were Er, Onan and Shelah. A woman from Canaan had those three sons by him. She was the daughter of Shua. Er was Judah's oldest son. He was evil in the Lord's eyes. So the Lord put him to death." 
1Chronicles2:4 Tamar was Judah's daughter-in-law. She had Perez and Zerah by him. The total number of Judah's sons was five. 
1Chronicles2:5 The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
1Chronicles2:6 The sons of Zerah were Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Darda. The total number of Zerah's sons was five." 
1Chronicles2:7 The son of Carmi was Achar. He brought trouble on Israel. He took some of the things that had been set apart to the Lord in a special way to be destroyed. When he did that, he disobeyed the Lord's command." 
1Chronicles2:8 The son of Ethan was Azariah. 
1Chronicles2:9 Hezron was the father of Jerahmeel, Ram and Caleb." 
1Chronicles2:10 Ram was the father of Amminadab. Amminadab was the father of Nahshon. Nahshon was the leader of the people of Judah. 
1Chronicles2:11 Nahshon was the father of Salmon. Salmon was the father of Boaz. 
1Chronicles2:12 Boaz was the father of Obed. And Obed was the father of Jesse. 
1Chronicles2:13 Jesse's first son was Eliab. His second son was Abinadab. The third was Shimea. 
1Chronicles2:14 The fourth was Nethanel. The fifth was Raddai. 
1Chronicles2:15 The sixth was Ozem. And the seventh was David. 
1Chronicles2:16 Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah's three sons were Abishai, Joab and Asahel." 
1Chronicles2:17 Abigail was the mother of Amasa. Amasa's father was Jether. Jether belonged to the family line of Ishmael. 
1Chronicles2:18 Caleb was the son of Hezron. Caleb's wife Azubah had children by him. Jerioth also had children by him. Azubah's sons were Jesher, Shobab and Ardon." 
1Chronicles2:19 When Azubah died, Caleb got married to Ephrath. She had Hur by him." 
1Chronicles2:20 Hur was the father of Uri. And Uri was the father of Bezalel. 
1Chronicles2:21 Later, Hezron made love to the daughter of Makir. He had gotten married to her when he was 60 years old. She had Segub by him. Makir was the father of Gilead." 
1Chronicles2:22 Segub was the father of Jair. Jair controlled 23 towns in Gilead. 
1Chronicles2:23 But Geshur and Aram captured Havvoth Jair. They also captured Kenath and the settlements that were around it. The total number of towns that were captured was 60. Hezron, Segub and Jair belonged to the family line of Makir. Makir was the father of Gilead." 
1Chronicles2:24 Hezron died in Caleb Ephrathah. Abijah was Hezron's wife. She had Ashhur by him. Ashhur was born after Hezron died. Ashhur was the father of Tekoa. 
1Chronicles2:25 Here are the sons of Jerahmeel. He was the oldest son of Hezron. Ram was Jerahmeel's oldest son. Then came Bunah, Oren, Ozem and Ahijah." 
1Chronicles2:26 Jerahmeel had another wife. Her name was Atarah. She was the mother of Onam. 
1Chronicles2:27 Here are the sons of Ram. He was the oldest son of Jerahmeel. The sons of Ram were Maaz, Jamin and Eker." 
1Chronicles2:28 The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai were Nadab and Abishur. 
1Chronicles2:29 Abishur's wife was named Abihail. She had Ahban and Molid by him. 
1Chronicles2:30 The sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim. Seled died without having any children. 
1Chronicles2:31 The son of Appaim was Ishi. Ishi was the father of Sheshan. Sheshan was the father of Ahlai. 
1Chronicles2:32 The sons of Jada were Jether and Jonathan. Jada was Shammai's brother. Jether died without having any children. 
1Chronicles2:33 The sons of Jonathan were Peleth and Zaza. They belonged to the family line of Jerahmeel. 
1Chronicles2:34 Sheshan didn't have any sons. All he had was daughters. He had a servant from Egypt named Jarha. 
1Chronicles2:35 Sheshan gave his daughter to be married to his servant Jarha. She had Attai by Jarha. 
1Chronicles2:36 Attai was the father of Nathan. Nathan was the father of Zabad. 
1Chronicles2:37 Zabad was the father of Ephlal. Ephlal was the father of Obed. 
1Chronicles2:38 Obed was the father of Jehu. Jehu was the father of Azariah. 
1Chronicles2:39 Azariah was the father of Helez. Helez was the father of Eleasah. 
1Chronicles2:40 Eleasah was the father of Sismai. Sismai was the father of Shallum. 
1Chronicles2:41 Shallum was the father of Jekamiah. And Jekamiah was the father of Elishama. 
1Chronicles2:42 Caleb was the brother of Jerahmeel. Caleb's oldest son was Mesha. Mesha was the father of Ziph. Caleb had another son named Mareshah. Mareshah was the father of Hebron. 
1Chronicles2:43 The sons of Hebron were Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema." 
1Chronicles2:44 Shema was the father of Raham. Raham was the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai. 
1Chronicles2:45 The son of Shammai was Maon. Maon was the father of Beth Zur. 
1Chronicles2:46 Caleb had a concubine named Ephah. She was the mother of Haran, Moza and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez." 
1Chronicles2:47 The sons of Jahdai were Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph." 
1Chronicles2:48 Caleb had a concubine named Maacah. She was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah. 
1Chronicles2:49 She was also the mother of Shaaph and Sheva. Shaaph was the father of Madmannah. Sheva was the father of Macbenah and Gibea. Caleb's daughter was Acsah. 
1Chronicles2:50 All of them belonged to the family line of Caleb. Hur was the oldest son of Ephrathah. Hur was the brother of Shobal. Shobal was the father of Kiriath Jearim. 
1Chronicles2:51 Hur was the father of Salma. Salma was the father of Bethlehem. Hur was also the father of Hareph. Hareph was the father of Beth Gader. 
1Chronicles2:52 Here is the family line of Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim. It included Haroeh and half of the people of Manahath." 
1Chronicles2:53 It also included the family groups of Kiriath Jearim. They were the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites and Mishraites. The people of Zorah and Eshtaol belonged to those family groups." 
1Chronicles2:54 Here is the family line of Salma. It included Bethlehem, the people of Netophah, Atroth Beth Joab, half of the people of Manahath, and the Zorites." 
1Chronicles2:55 It also included the family groups of secretaries who lived at Jabez. They were the Tirathites, Shimeathites and Sucathites. They were the Kenites who belonged to the family line of Hammath. Hammath was the father of the family line of Recab." 
1Chronicles3:1 Here are the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron. His first son was Amnon. Amnon's mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel. The second son was Daniel. His mother was Abigail from Carmel. 
1Chronicles3:1 Here are the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron. His first son was Amnon. Amnon's mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel. The second son was Daniel. His mother was Abigail from Carmel. 
1Chronicles3:2 The third son was Absalom. His mother was Maacah. She was the daughter of Talmai, the king of Geshur. The fourth son was Adonijah. His mother was Haggith." 
1Chronicles3:3 The fifth son was Shephatiah. His mother was Abital. The sixth son was Ithream. David's wife Eglah had Ithream by him. 
1Chronicles3:4 Those six sons were born to David in Hebron. He ruled there for seven and a half years. After that, he ruled in Jerusalem for 33 years." 
1Chronicles3:5 Children were born to him there. They included Shammua, Shobab, Nathan and Solomon. The mother of those four sons was Bathsheba. She was the daughter of Ammiel." 
1Chronicles3:6 David's children also included Ibhar, Elishua, Eliphelet," 
1Chronicles3:7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles3:8 Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet. There were nine of them." 
1Chronicles3:9 David was the father of all of those sons. His concubines also had sons by him. David's sons had a sister named Tamar. 
1Chronicles3:10 Solomon's son was Rehoboam. Abijah was the son of Rehoboam. Asa was the son of Abijah. Jehoshaphat was the son of Asa. 
1Chronicles3:11 Jehoram was the son of Jehoshaphat. Ahaziah was the son of Jehoram. Joash was the son of Ahaziah. 
1Chronicles3:12 Amaziah was the son of Joash. Azariah was the son of Amaziah. Jotham was the son of Azariah. 
1Chronicles3:13 Ahaz was the son of Jotham. Hezekiah was the son of Ahaz. Manasseh was the son of Hezekiah. 
1Chronicles3:14 Amon was the son of Manasseh. Josiah was the son of Amon. 
1Chronicles3:15 Josiah's first son was Johanan. Jehoiakim was his second son. Zedekiah was the third son. Shallum was the fourth son. 
1Chronicles3:16 The next king after Jehoiakim was his son Jehoiachin. After that, Josiah's son Zedekiah became king." 
1Chronicles3:17 Here are the members of the family line of Jehoiachin. He was taken as a prisoner to Babylon. His sons were Shealtiel," 
1Chronicles3:18 Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah." 
1Chronicles3:19 The sons of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel were Meshullam and Hananiah. Shelomith was their sister. 
1Chronicles3:20 There were also five other sons. They were Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah and Jushab-Hesed." 
1Chronicles3:21 The family line of Hananiah included Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. It also included the sons of Rephaiah, Arnan, Obadiah and Shecaniah." 
1Chronicles3:21 The family line of Hananiah included Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. It also included the sons of Rephaiah, Arnan, Obadiah and Shecaniah." 
1Chronicles3:22 The family line of Shecaniah included Shemaiah and his sons. They were Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah and Shaphat. The total number of men was six." 
1Chronicles3:23 The sons of Neariah were Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam. The total number of sons was three." 
1Chronicles3:24 The sons of Elioenai were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah and Anani. The total number of sons was seven." 
1Chronicles4:1 The family line of Judah included Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur and Shobal." 
1Chronicles4:2 Reaiah was the son of Shobal and the father of Jahath. Jahath was the father of Ahumai and Lahad. Those were the family groups of the people of Zorah. 
1Chronicles4:3 The sons of Etam were Jezreel, Ishma and Idbash. Their sister was named Hazzelelponi." 
1Chronicles4:4 Penuel was the father of Gedor. Ezer was the father of Hushah. Those people belonged to the family line of Hur. He was the oldest son of Ephrathah and the father of Bethlehem. 
1Chronicles4:5 Ashhur was the father of Tekoa. Ashhur had two wives. Their names were Helah and Naarah. 
1Chronicles4:6 Naarah had Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni and Haahashtari by Ashhur. They belonged to the family line of Naarah." 
1Chronicles4:7 The sons of Helah were Zereth, Zohar, Ethnan" 
1Chronicles4:8 and Koz. Koz was the father of Anub and Hazzobebah. He was also the father of the family groups of Aharhel. Aharhel was the son of Harum. 
1Chronicles4:9 Jabez was more respected than his brothers. His mother had named him Jabez. She had said, ""I was in a lot of pain when he was born.""" 
1Chronicles4:10 Jabez cried out to the God of Israel. He said, ""I wish you would bless me. I wish you would give me more territory. Let your powerful hand be with me. Keep me from harm. Then I won't have any pain."" God gave him what he asked for." 
1Chronicles4:11 Kelub was the brother of Shuhah and the father of Mehir. Mehir was the father of Eshton. 
1Chronicles4:12 Eshton was the father of Beth Rapha, Paseah and Tehinnah. Tehinnah was the father of Ir Nahash. Those were the men of Recah." 
1Chronicles4:13 The sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel were Hathath and Meonothai. 
1Chronicles4:14 Meonothai was the father of Ophrah. Seraiah was the father of Joab. Joab was the father of Ge Harashim. Ge Harashim was called by that name because all of its people were skilled workers. 
1Chronicles4:15 The sons of Caleb were Iru, Elah and Naam. Caleb was the son of Jephunneh. The son of Elah was Kenaz." 
1Chronicles4:16 The sons of Jehallelel were Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel." 
1Chronicles4:17 The sons of Ezrah were Jether, Mered, Epher and Jalon. One of Mered's wives had Miriam, Shammai and Ishbah by him. Ishbah was the father of Eshtemoa." 
1Chronicles4:17 The sons of Ezrah were Jether, Mered, Epher and Jalon. One of Mered's wives had Miriam, Shammai and Ishbah by him. Ishbah was the father of Eshtemoa." 
1Chronicles4:18 Those were the children of Pharaoh's daughter Bithiah. Mered had gotten married to her. His wife from Judah had Jered, Heber and Jekuthiel by him. Jered was the father of Gedor. Heber was the father of Soco. Jekuthiel was the father of Zanoah." 
1Chronicles4:19 Hodiah's wife was the sister of Naham. Her sons were the father of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
1Chronicles4:20 The sons of Shimon were Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan and Tilon. The family line of Ishi included Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth." 
1Chronicles4:21 Shelah was the son of Judah. The sons of Shelah were Er and Laadah. Er was the father of Lecah. Laadah was the father of Mareshah. He was also the father of the family groups of the linen workers who lived in Beth Ashbea. 
1Chronicles4:22 Other sons of Shelah were Jokim, Joash, Saraph and the men of Cozeba. Moab and Jashubi Lehem were ruled by sons of Shelah. The records of all of those matters are very old." 
1Chronicles4:23 Some of Shelah's sons were potters who lived in Netaim and Gederah. They stayed there and worked for the king. 
1Chronicles4:24 The family line of Simeon included Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah and Shaul." 
1Chronicles4:25 Shallum was Shaul's son. Mibsam was Shallum's son. Mishma was Mibsam's son. 
1Chronicles4:26 The family line of Mishma included Hammuel. Hammuel was Mishma's son. Zaccur was Hammuel's son. Shimei was Zaccur's son. 
1Chronicles4:27 Shimei had 16 sons and six daughters. But his brothers didn't have many children. So their whole family group didn't have as many people as Judah had. 
1Chronicles4:28 Shimei's family group lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar Shual," 
1Chronicles4:29 Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad," 
1Chronicles4:30 Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag," 
1Chronicles4:31 Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susim, Beth Biri and Shaaraim. Those were their towns until David became king." 
1Chronicles4:32 Five of the villages that were around those towns were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token and Ashan." 
1Chronicles4:33 The territory of all of the villages that were around those towns reached all the way to Baalath. Those were their settlements. The tribe of Simeon kept its own family history. 
1Chronicles4:34 Simeon's family line included Meshobab, Jamlech and Joshah. Joshah was the son of Amaziah." 
1Chronicles4:35 Simeon's family line also included Joel and Jehu. Jehu was the son of Joshibiah. Joshibiah was the son of Seraiah. Seraiah was the son of Asiel. 
1Chronicles4:35 Simeon's family line also included Joel and Jehu. Jehu was the son of Joshibiah. Joshibiah was the son of Seraiah. Seraiah was the son of Asiel. 
1Chronicles4:36 And the family line included Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah" 
1Chronicles4:37 and Ziza. Ziza was the son of Shiphi. Shiphi was the son of Allon. Allon was the son of Jedaiah. Jedaiah was the son of Shimri. And Shimri was the son of Shemaiah. 
1Chronicles4:38 The men whose names are listed above were leaders of their family groups. Their families greatly increased their numbers. 
1Chronicles4:39 They spread out all the way to the edge of Gedor east of the valley. They looked for grasslands for their flocks. 
1Chronicles4:40 They found grasslands that were rich and good. The land had plenty of room. It was peaceful and quiet. Some of the people of Ham had lived there before. 
1Chronicles4:41 The men whose names are listed lived at the time when Hezekiah was king of Judah. They came and attacked the Hamites in their homes. They also attacked the Meunites who were there. And they completely destroyed them. What happened to them is clear even to this very day. The men of Simeon settled down where the Meunites had lived. They had enough grasslands for their flocks. 
1Chronicles4:42 Five hundred of those men came into the hill country of Seir and attacked it. They were led by Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah and Uzziel. Those four men were the sons of Ishi." 
1Chronicles4:43 They killed the rest of the Amalekites who had escaped. And they still live there to this very day. 
1Chronicles5:1 Here is a list of the sons of Reuben. First, here are a few things about him. Reuben was the oldest son of Israel. But he had sex with his father's concubine. He made his father's bed ""unclean."" That's why his rights as the oldest son were given to the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel. So Reuben isn't listed in the family history as the one who had the rights of the oldest son." 
1Chronicles5:2 Judah was the leader among his brothers. A ruler came from his family line. But the rights of the oldest son belonged to Joseph. 
1Chronicles5:3 Reuben was the oldest son of Israel. Reuben's sons were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi." 
1Chronicles5:4 The family line of Joel includes his son Shemaiah. Gog was the son of Shemaiah. Shimei was the son of Gog. 
1Chronicles5:4 The family line of Joel includes his son Shemaiah. Gog was the son of Shemaiah. Shimei was the son of Gog. 
1Chronicles5:5 Micah was the son of Shimei. Reaiah was the son of Micah. Baal was the son of Reaiah. 
1Chronicles5:5 Micah was the son of Shimei. Reaiah was the son of Micah. Baal was the son of Reaiah. 
1Chronicles5:6 And Beerah was the son of Baal. Beerah was a leader of the people of Reuben. Tiglath-Pileser took Beerah as a prisoner to another country. Tiglath-Pileser was the king of Assyria. 
1Chronicles5:7 Here are the relatives of the family groups of Reuben. They are listed in their family history. They include Chief Jeiel, Zechariah" 
1Chronicles5:7 Here are the relatives of the family groups of Reuben. They are listed in their family history. They include Chief Jeiel, Zechariah" 
1Chronicles5:8 and Bela. Bela was the son of Azaz. Azaz was the son of Shema. Shema was the son of Joel. All of them settled in the area from Aroer to Nebo and Baal Meon. 
1Chronicles5:8 and Bela. Bela was the son of Azaz. Azaz was the son of Shema. Shema was the son of Joel. All of them settled in the area from Aroer to Nebo and Baal Meon. 
1Chronicles5:9 To the east they settled in the land up to the edge of the desert. That desert reaches all the way to the Euphrates River. They settled there because their livestock had increased their numbers in Gilead. 
1Chronicles5:10 While Saul was king, the people of Reuben went to war against the Hagrites. They won the battle over them. Then they settled down in their houses. They settled through the entire area east of Gilead." 
1Chronicles5:11 The people of Gad lived next to the people of Reuben in Bashan. They spread out all the way to Salecah. 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel was their chief. Shapham was next. Then came Janai and Shaphat in Bashan. 
1Chronicles5:12 Joel was their chief. Shapham was next. Then came Janai and Shaphat in Bashan. 
1Chronicles5:13 Here are their relatives family by family. They included Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia and Eber. The total number of them was seven." 
1Chronicles5:14 Those were the sons of Abihail. Abihail was the son of Huri. Huri was the son of Jaroah. Jaroah was the son of Gilead. Gilead was the son of Michael. Michael was the son of Jeshishai. Jeshishai was the son of Jahdo. And Jahdo was the son of Buz. 
1Chronicles5:15 Ahi was the leader of some of the families of Gad. Ahi was the son of Abdiel. Abdiel was the son of Guni. 
1Chronicles5:16 The people of Gad lived in the land of Gilead. They lived in the villages of Bashan. They also lived on all of the grasslands of Sharon as far as they reached. 
1Chronicles5:17 All of those names were written down in the family history. They were written during the time when Jotham was king of Judah and Jeroboam was king of Israel. 
1Chronicles5:18 The tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh had 44,760 men who were able to serve in the army. They were able to handle a shield and sword. They were also able to use a bow. They were trained for battle." 
1Chronicles5:19 They went to war against the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish and Nodab." 
1Chronicles5:20 God helped his people fight against the Hagrites and all who were helping them. He handed all of those enemies over to his people. That's because they cried out to him during the battle. He answered their prayers, because they trusted in him." 
1Chronicles5:21 They captured the livestock of the Hagrites. They captured 50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep and 2,000 donkeys. They also took 100,000 people as prisoners." 
1Chronicles5:22 Many others were killed, because God won the battle over them. His people lived in the land until they themselves were taken as prisoners to other countries." 
1Chronicles5:23 The people in half of the tribe of Manasseh greatly increased their numbers. They settled in the land from Bashan to Baal Hermon. Baal Hermon is also called Senir. Another name for it is Mount Hermon. 
1Chronicles5:24 Here are the leaders of their families. They included Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel. They were brave fighting men. They were famous. They were the leaders of their families." 
1Chronicles5:24 Here are the leaders of their families. They included Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel. They were brave fighting men. They were famous. They were the leaders of their families." 
1Chronicles5:25 But they weren't faithful to the God of their people. They joined themselves to the gods of the nations of the land and worshiped them. God had destroyed those nations to make room for his people. 
1Chronicles5:26 So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul. He was king of Assyria. He was also called Tiglath-Pileser. He took the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh to other countries as his prisoners. He took them to Halah, Habor, Hara and the river of Gozan. And that's where they still are to this very day." 
1Chronicles6:1 The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:2 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:3 Aaron, Moses and Miriam were born in the family line of Amram. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles6:4 Eleazar was the father of Phinehas. Phinehas was the father of Abishua. 
1Chronicles6:5 Abishua was the father of Bukki. Bukki was the father of Uzzi. 
1Chronicles6:6 Uzzi was the father of Zerahiah. Zerahiah was the father of Meraioth. 
1Chronicles6:7 Meraioth was the father of Amariah. Amariah was the father of Ahitub. 
1Chronicles6:8 Ahitub was the father of Zadok. Zadok was the father of Ahimaaz. 
1Chronicles6:9 Ahimaaz was the father of Azariah. Azariah was the father of Johanan. 
1Chronicles6:10 Johanan was the father of Azariah. Azariah served as priest in the temple Solomon built in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles6:11 Azariah was the father of Amariah. Amariah was the father of Ahitub. 
1Chronicles6:12 Ahitub was the father of Zadok. Zadok was the father of Shallum. 
1Chronicles6:13 Shallum was the father of Hilkiah. Hilkiah was the father of Azariah. 
1Chronicles6:14 Azariah was the father of Seraiah. And Seraiah was the father of Jehozadak. 
1Chronicles6:15 Jehozadak was taken away from his own land. The Lord took the people of Judah and Jerusalem to Babylonia. He used Nebuchadnezzar to take them there as prisoners. 
1Chronicles6:16 The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
1Chronicles6:17 The names of the sons of Gershon were Libni and Shimei. 
1Chronicles6:18 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles6:19 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. Here are the members of the family groups of the Levites. They are listed under the names of their fathers. 
1Chronicles6:20 Gershon was the father of Libni. Jahath was Libni's son. Zimmah was Jahath's son. 
1Chronicles6:21 Joah was Zimmah's son. Iddo was Joah's son. Zerah was Iddo's son. And Jeatherai was Zerah's son. 
1Chronicles6:22 The family line of Kohath included his son Amminadab. Korah was Amminadab's son. Assir was Korah's son. 
1Chronicles6:23 Elkanah was Assir's son. Ebiasaph was Elkanah's son. Assir was Ebiasaph's son. 
1Chronicles6:24 Tahath was Assir's son. Uriel was Tahath's son. Uzziah was Uriel's son. And Shaul was Uzziah's son. 
1Chronicles6:25 The family line of Elkanah included his son Amasai. Amasai was the father of Ahimoth. 
1Chronicles6:26 Elkanah was Ahimoth's son. Zophai was Elkanah's son. Nahath was Zophai's son. 
1Chronicles6:27 Eliab was Nahath's son. Jeroham was Eliab's son. Elkanah was Jeroham's son. And Samuel was Elkanah's son. 
1Chronicles6:28 The sons of Samuel were his first son Joel and his second son Abijah. 
1Chronicles6:28 The sons of Samuel were his first son Joel and his second son Abijah. 
1Chronicles6:29 The family line of Merari included his son Mahli. Libni was Mahli's son. Shimei was Libni's son. Uzzah was Shimei's son. 
1Chronicles6:30 Shimea was Uzzah's son. Haggiah was Shimea's son. And Asaiah was Haggiah's son. 
1Chronicles6:31 Here are the Levites David put in charge of the music in the house of the Lord. He did it after the ark was placed there. 
1Chronicles6:32 The men used their music to serve in front of the holy tent, the Tent of Meeting. They served there until Solomon built the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem. They did their work based on the rules they had been given." 
1Chronicles6:33 Here are the men who served. The list also includes their sons. The family line of Kohath included Heman. He led the music. He was the son of Joel. Joel was the son of Samuel. 
1Chronicles6:33 Here are the men who served. The list also includes their sons. The family line of Kohath included Heman. He led the music. He was the son of Joel. Joel was the son of Samuel. 
1Chronicles6:34 Samuel was the son of Elkanah. Elkanah was the son of Jeroham. Jeroham was the son of Eliel. Eliel was the son of Toah. 
1Chronicles6:35 Toah was the son of Zuph. Zuph was the son of Elkanah. Elkanah was the son of Mahath. Mahath was the son of Amasai. 
1Chronicles6:36 Amasai was the son of Elkanah. Elkanah was the son of Joel. Joel was the son of Azariah. Azariah was the son of Zephaniah. 
1Chronicles6:36 Amasai was the son of Elkanah. Elkanah was the son of Joel. Joel was the son of Azariah. Azariah was the son of Zephaniah. 
1Chronicles6:36 Amasai was the son of Elkanah. Elkanah was the son of Joel. Joel was the son of Azariah. Azariah was the son of Zephaniah. 
1Chronicles6:37 Zephaniah was the son of Tahath. Tahath was the son of Assir. Assir was the son of Ebiasaph. Ebiasaph was the son of Korah. 
1Chronicles6:37 Zephaniah was the son of Tahath. Tahath was the son of Assir. Assir was the son of Ebiasaph. Ebiasaph was the son of Korah. 
1Chronicles6:38 Korah was the son of Izhar. Izhar was the son of Kohath. Kohath was the son of Levi. And Levi was the son of Israel. 
1Chronicles6:39 Heman had a relative named Asaph. Asaph served as Heman's helper at his right side. Asaph was the son of Berekiah. Berekiah was the son of Shimea. 
1Chronicles6:40 Shimea was the son of Michael. Michael was the son of Baaseiah. Baaseiah was the son of Malkijah. 
1Chronicles6:41 Malkijah was the son of Ethni. Ethni was the son of Zerah. Zerah was the son of Adaiah. 
1Chronicles6:42 Adaiah was the son of Ethan. Ethan was the son of Zimmah. Zimmah was the son of Shimei. 
1Chronicles6:43 Shimei was the son of Jahath. Jahath was the son of Gershon. And Gershon was the son of Levi. 
1Chronicles6:44 Here are the Levites in the family line of Merari who served as Heman's helpers at his left side. They were relatives of the Kohathites. Ethan was the son of Kishi. Kishi was the son of Abdi. Abdi was the son of Malluch. 
1Chronicles6:45 Malluch was the son of Hashabiah. Hashabiah was the son of Amaziah. Amaziah was the son of Hilkiah. 
1Chronicles6:46 Hilkiah was the son of Amzi. Amzi was the son of Bani. Bani was the son of Shemer. 
1Chronicles6:47 Shemer was the son of Mahli. Mahli was the son of Mushi. Mushi was the son of Merari. And Merari was the son of Levi. 
1Chronicles6:48 The rest of the Levites were appointed to do all of the other work at the holy tent. It was the house of God. 
1Chronicles6:49 Aaron and his sons after him brought the offerings. They sacrificed them on the altar of burnt offering. They also burned incense on the altar of incense. That was part of what they did in the Most Holy Room. That's how they paid for the sin of Israel. They did everything just as Moses, the servant of God, had commanded." 
1Chronicles6:50 Here are the members of the family line of Aaron. Eleazar was Aaron's son. Phinehas was Eleazar's son. Abishua was Phinehas's son. 
1Chronicles6:51 Bukki was Abishua's son. Uzzi was Bukki's son. Zerahiah was Uzzi's son. 
1Chronicles6:52 Meraioth was Zerahiah's son. Amariah was Meraioth's son. Ahitub was Amariah's son. 
1Chronicles6:53 Zadok was Ahitub's son. And Ahimaaz was Zadok's son. 
1Chronicles6:54 Here were the places where they settled. They were given to them as their territory. Some were given to the children of Aaron who were from the family group of Kohath. They were given out by using lots. The first lot was for Kohath. 
1Chronicles6:55 The Kohathites were given Hebron in Judah. They also received the grasslands that were around Hebron. 
1Chronicles6:56 But the fields and villages that were around the city were given to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh." 
1Chronicles6:57 So the people in the family line of Aaron received Hebron. It was a city where people could go for safety. Aaron's family line received Libnah, Jattir, Eshtemoa," 
1Chronicles6:58 Hilen and Debir. 
1Chronicles6:59 They also received Ashan, Juttah and Beth Shemesh. They were given all of those towns together with their grasslands." 
1Chronicles6:60 From the tribe of Benjamin they received Gibeon, Geba, Alemeth and Anathoth. They received those towns together with their grasslands. All of those towns were handed out to the family groups of Kohath. The total number of towns was 13." 
1Chronicles6:61 The rest of the members of the family line of Kohath were given ten towns. The towns were from the family groups of half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
1Chronicles6:62 The members of the family line of Gershon were given 13 towns. They received them family group by family group. Most of the towns were from the tribes of Issachar, Asher and Naphtali. The rest were from the other half of the tribe of Manasseh. It's in Bashan." 
1Chronicles6:63 The members of the family line of Merari were given 12 towns. They received them family group by family group. The towns were from the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Zebulun." 
1Chronicles6:64 So the people of Israel gave the Levites all of those towns and their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:65 They gave other towns to them from the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin." 
1Chronicles6:66 Some of the family groups of Kohath were given towns from the tribe of Ephraim as their territory. 
1Chronicles6:67 In the hill country of Ephraim they received Shechem. Shechem was a city where people could go for safety. The Kohathites also received Gezer," 
1Chronicles6:68 Jokmeam, Beth Horon," 
1Chronicles6:69 Aijalon and Gath Rimmon. They were given all of those towns together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:70 From half of the tribe of Manasseh the people of Israel gave the towns of Aner and Bileam. They gave them to the rest of the family groups of Kohath. They gave them together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:71 Here is what the members of the family line of Gershon were given. They received Golan in Bashan and also Ashtaroth. They received them together with their grasslands. They received them from half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
1Chronicles6:72 From the tribe of Issachar they received Kedesh, Daberath," 
1Chronicles6:73 Ramoth and Anem. They received them together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:74 From the tribe of Asher they received Mashal, Abdon," 
1Chronicles6:75 Hukok and Rehob. They received them together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:76 From the tribe of Naphtali they received Kedesh in Galilee. They also received Hammon and Kiriathaim. They were given all of those towns together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:77 The members of the family line of Merari make up the rest of the Levites. Here is what they were given. From the tribe of Zebulun they received Jokneam, Kartah, Rimmono and Tabor. They received them together with their grasslands." 
1Chronicles6:78 The tribe of Reuben was across the Jordan River east of Jericho. From that tribe the Merarites received Bezer in the desert, Jahzah," 
1Chronicles6:79 Kedemoth and Mephaath. They received them together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles6:80 From the tribe of Gad they received Ramoth in Gilead. They also received Mahanaim," 
1Chronicles6:81 Heshbon and Jazer. They received all of those towns together with their grasslands. 
1Chronicles7:1 The sons of Issachar were Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron. The total number of sons was four." 
1Chronicles7:2 The sons of Tola were Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam and Samuel. They were the leaders of their families. The total number of fighting men who were listed in the history of the family line of Tola was 22,600. That was when David was king." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All five of them were chiefs." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All five of them were chiefs." 
1Chronicles7:3 The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All five of them were chiefs." 
1Chronicles7:4 Based on their family history, 36,000 of their men were ready for battle. That's because they had many wives and children." 
1Chronicles7:5 The total number of fighting men who belonged to all of the family groups of Issachar was 87,000. The men were listed in their family history." 
1Chronicles7:6 The three sons of Benjamin were Bela, Beker and Jediael." 
1Chronicles7:7 The sons of Bela were Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth and Iri. They were the leaders of their families. The total number of sons was five. Their family history listed 22,034 fighting men." 
1Chronicles7:8 The sons of Beker were Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth and Alemeth. All of them were the sons of Beker." 
1Chronicles7:9 Their family history listed the leaders of their families. It also listed 20,200 fighting men." 
1Chronicles7:10 The son of Jediael was Bilhan. The sons of Bilhan were Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish and Ahishahar." 
1Chronicles7:11 All of those sons of Jediael were the leaders of their families. There were 17,200 fighting men who were ready to go to war." 
1Chronicles7:12 The Shuppites and Huppites belonged to the family line of Ir. The Hushites belonged to the family line of Aher. 
1Chronicles7:13 The sons of Naphtali were Jahziel, Guni, Jezer and Shillem. They belonged to the family line of Bilhah." 
1Chronicles7:14 Here is the family line of Manasseh. He had a concubine who was from the land of Aram. She had Asriel and Makir by him. Makir was the father of Gilead. 
1Chronicles7:15 Makir got married to a woman from among the Huppites and Shuppites. He had a sister named Maacah. Another member of Manasseh's family line was Zelophehad. All he had was daughters. 
1Chronicles7:16 Makir's wife Maacah had a son by him. She named the boy Peresh. He had a brother named Sheresh. The sons of Sheresh were Ulam and Rakem. 
1Chronicles7:17 The son of Ulam was Bedan. Those were the members of the family line of Makir, the son of Manasseh. Gilead was the son of Makir." 
1Chronicles7:18 Gilead's sister was Hammoleketh. She was the mother of Ishhod, Abiezer and Mahlah." 
1Chronicles7:19 The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi and Aniam." 
1Chronicles7:20 Here are the members of the family line of Ephraim. Shuthelah was Ephraim's son. Bered was Shuthelah's son. Tahath was Bered's son. Eleadah was Tahath's son. Tahath was Eleadah's son. 
1Chronicles7:21 Zabad was Tahath's son. And Shuthelah was Zabad's son. 'QK'Men from Gath killed Ezer and Elead when they went down to steal their livestock. 
1Chronicles7:22 Their father Ephraim sobbed over them for many days. His relatives came to comfort him. 
1Chronicles7:23 Then he made love to his wife. She became pregnant and had a baby boy. Ephraim named him Beriah. That's because something bad had happened in his family. 
1Chronicles7:24 His daughter was Sheerah. She built Lower and Upper Beth Horon. She also built Uzzen Sheerah. 
1Chronicles7:25 Rephah was Beriah's son. Resheph was Rephah's son. Telah was Resheph's son. Tahan was Telah's son. 
1Chronicles7:26 Ladan was Tahan's son. Ammihud was Ladan's son. Elishama was Ammihud's son. 
1Chronicles7:27 Nun was Elishama's son. And Joshua was the son of Nun. 
1Chronicles7:27 Nun was Elishama's son. And Joshua was the son of Nun. 
1Chronicles7:28 The lands and settlements of the members of Ephraim's line included Bethel and the villages that were around it. Naaran was on the east. Gezer and its villages were on the west. The lands and settlements included Shechem. They also included the villages that were around Shechem all the way to Ayyah and its villages. 
1Chronicles7:29 Along the borders of Manasseh were Beth Shan, Taanach, Megiddo and Dor, together with their villages. The members of the family line of Joseph lived in those towns. Joseph was the son of Israel." 
1Chronicles7:30 The sons of Asher were Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi and Beriah. They had a sister named Serah." 
1Chronicles7:31 The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malkiel. Malkiel was the father of Birzaith. 
1Chronicles7:32 Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham and their sister Shua." 
1Chronicles7:33 The sons of Japhlet were Pasach, Bimhal and Ashvath. They were Japhlet's sons." 
1Chronicles7:34 The sons of Shomer were Ahi, Rohgah, Hubbah and Aram." 
1Chronicles7:35 The sons of Shomer's brother Helem were Zophah, Imna, Shelesh and Amal." 
1Chronicles7:36 The sons of Zophah were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah," 
1Chronicles7:37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran and Beera." 
1Chronicles7:38 The sons of Jether were Jephunneh, Pispah and Ara." 
1Chronicles7:39 The sons of Ulla were Arah, Hanniel and Rizia." 
1Chronicles7:40 All of them were members of the family line of Asher. They were the leaders of their families. They were fine men. They were brave fighting men. They were outstanding leaders. The total number of men who were ready for battle was 26,000. They were listed in their family history." 
1Chronicles8:1 Benjamin was the father of Bela. Bela was his first son. Ashbel was his second son. Aharah was the third. 
1Chronicles8:2 Nohah was the fourth. And Rapha was the fifth. 
1Chronicles8:3 The sons of Bela were Addar, Gera, Abihud," 
1Chronicles8:4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah," 
1Chronicles8:5 Gera, Shephuphan and Huram." 
1Chronicles8:6 Here are the members of the family line of Ehud. They were the leaders of the families who were living in Geba. Later, they were taken away from their own land. They were forced to go to Manahath." 
1Chronicles8:7 The sons of Ehud were Naaman, Ahijah and Gera. Gera took them away from their land. He was the father of Uzza and Ahihud." 
1Chronicles8:8 Sons were born to Shaharaim in Moab. That happened after he had divorced his wives Hushim and Baara. 
1Chronicles8:9 His wife Hodesh had sons by him. Their names were Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam," 
1Chronicles8:9 His wife Hodesh had sons by him. Their names were Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam," 
1Chronicles8:10 Jeuz, Sakia and Mirmah. His sons were the leaders of their families." 
1Chronicles8:11 His wife Hushim had Abitub and Elpaal by him. 
1Chronicles8:12 The sons of Elpaal were Eber, Misham and Shemed. Shemed built Ono and Lod and the villages that were around it." 
1Chronicles8:13 Beriah and Shema were also sons of Elpaal. They were the leaders of the families who were living in Aijalon. Beriah and Shema drove out the people who were living in Gath. 
1Chronicles8:14 Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth," 
1Chronicles8:15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder," 
1Chronicles8:16 Michael, Ishpah and Joha were the sons of Beriah." 
1Chronicles8:17 Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber," 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab were other sons of Elpaal." 
1Chronicles8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab were other sons of Elpaal." 
1Chronicles8:19 Jakim, Zicri, Zabdi," 
1Chronicles8:20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:21 Adaiah, Beraiah and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei." 
1Chronicles8:22 Ishpan, Eber, Eliel," 
1Chronicles8:23 Abdon, Zicri, Hanan," 
1Chronicles8:24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah," 
1Chronicles8:25 Iphdeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak. 
1Chronicles8:26 Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah," 
1Chronicles8:27 Jaareshiah, Elijah and Zicri were the sons of Jeroham." 
1Chronicles8:28 All of those men were the leaders of their families. They were listed as chiefs in their family history. They lived in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles8:29 Jeiel lived in the city of Gibeon. He was the father of Gibeon. Jeiel had a wife named Maacah. 
1Chronicles8:30 His oldest son was Abdon. His other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab," 
1Chronicles8:31 Gedor, Ahio, Zeker" 
1Chronicles8:32 and Mikloth. Mikloth was the father of Shimeah. Mikloth and Shimeah also lived in Jerusalem. They lived near their relatives. 
1Chronicles8:33 Ner was the father of Kish. Kish was the father of Saul. Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal." 
1Chronicles8:34 The son of Jonathan was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal was the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles8:34 The son of Jonathan was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal was the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles8:35 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:35 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles8:36 Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah. Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles8:37 Moza was the father of Binea. Raphah was Binea's son. Eleasah was Raphah's son. And Azel was Eleasah's son. 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons. Their names were Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. All of them were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles8:38 Azel had six sons. Their names were Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. All of them were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles8:39 Here are the sons of Azel's brother Eshek. Ulam was his first son. Jeush was the second. Eliphelet was the third. 
1Chronicles8:40 The sons of Ulam were brave fighting men. They could handle a bow. They had many sons and grandsons. The total number of sons and grandsons was 150. All of those men belonged to the family line of Benjamin. 
1Chronicles9:1 The whole community of Israel was listed in their family histories. They were written down in the records of the kings of Israel. The people of Judah were taken away from their own land. They were taken as prisoners to Babylonia. That's because they weren't faithful to the Lord. 
1Chronicles9:2 The first ones who came back from there were some Israelites, priests, Levites and temple servants. They settled down again in their own towns on their own property." 
1Chronicles9:3 Some of them lived in Jerusalem. They included people from Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim and Manasseh." 
1Chronicles9:4 They included Uthai. He was the son of Ammihud. Ammihud was the son of Omri. Omri was the son of Imri. Imri was the son of Bani. Bani belonged to the family line of Perez. Perez was the son of Judah. 
1Chronicles9:5 The family line of Shelah included his oldest son Asaiah. It also included the sons of Asaiah. 
1Chronicles9:6 The family line of Zerah included Jeuel. The total number of the people of Judah was 690. 
1Chronicles9:7 The family line of Benjamin included Sallu. He was the son of Meshullam. Meshullam was the son of Hodaviah. Hodaviah was the son of Hassenuah. 
1Chronicles9:8 Ibneiah was the son of Jeroham. Elah was the son of Uzzi. Uzzi was the son of Micri. Meshullam was the son of Shephatiah. Shephatiah was the son of Reuel. Reuel was the son of Ibnijah. 
1Chronicles9:9 The total number of the people of Benjamin was 956. They were listed in their family history. All of those men were the leaders of their families. 
1Chronicles9:10 The family line of the priests included Jedaiah, Jehoiarib and Jakin." 
1Chronicles9:11 It also included Azariah. He was the son of Hilkiah. Hilkiah was the son of Meshullam. Meshullam was the son of Zadok. Zadok was the son of Meraioth. Meraioth was the son of Ahitub. Azariah was the official who was in charge of the house of God. 
1Chronicles9:12 Adaiah was the son of Jeroham. Jeroham was the son of Pashhur. Pashhur was the son of Malkijah. Maasai was the son of Adiel. Adiel was the son of Jahzerah. Jahzerah was the son of Meshullam. Meshullam was the son of Meshillemith. Meshillemith was the son of Immer. 
1Chronicles9:13 The total number of priests was 1,760. They were the leaders of their families. They were able men. It was their duty to serve in the house of God." 
1Chronicles9:14 The family line of the Levites included Shemaiah. He was the son of Hasshub. Hasshub was the son of Azrikam. Azrikam was the son of Hashabiah. Shemaiah belonged to the family line of Merari. 
1Chronicles9:15 The family line of the Levites also included Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal and Mattaniah. Mattaniah was the son of Mica. Mica was the son of Zicri. Zicri was the son of Asaph." 
1Chronicles9:16 Obadiah was the son of Shemaiah. Shemaiah was the son of Galal. Galal was the son of Jeduthun. Berekiah was the son of Asa. Asa was the son of Elkanah. He lived in the villages of the people of Netophah. 
1Chronicles9:16 Obadiah was the son of Shemaiah. Shemaiah was the son of Galal. Galal was the son of Jeduthun. Berekiah was the son of Asa. Asa was the son of Elkanah. He lived in the villages of the people of Netophah. 
1Chronicles9:17 The men who guarded the gates were Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman and other Levites. Shallum was their chief." 
1Chronicles9:18 He was stationed at the King's Gate on the east side of the temple. That duty has continued to this very day. Those guards belonged to the camp of the Levites. 
1Chronicles9:19 Shallum was the son of Kore. Kore was the son of Ebiasaph. Ebiasaph was the son of Korah. Shallum and the other Levites in his family belonged to the family line of Korah. They had the duty of guarding the entrances to the temple. Their fathers had also had the duty of guarding the entrance to the house of the Lord. 
1Chronicles9:20 Long ago Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, was in charge of those who guarded the gate. And the Lord was with him." 
1Chronicles9:21 Zechariah guarded the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. He was the son of Meshelemiah. 
1Chronicles9:21 Zechariah guarded the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. He was the son of Meshelemiah. 
1Chronicles9:22 The total number of the men who were chosen to guard the entrances was 212. They were listed in their family history in their villages. David and the prophet Samuel had appointed them to their positions. They appointed them because they trusted them. 
1Chronicles9:23 Those Levites and their children after them were in charge of guarding the gates of the house of the Lord. The house of the Lord was also called the temple. 
1Chronicles9:24 The men who guarded the gates were on the four sides of the temple. They were on the east, west, north and south sides." 
1Chronicles9:25 From time to time, their relatives in their villages had to come to the temple. They had to share their duties for a week at a time." 
1Chronicles9:26 The four main men who guarded the gates were Levites. They were trusted with the duty of taking care of the storerooms and the other rooms in the house of God. 
1Chronicles9:27 They spent the night in their positions around the house of God. That's because they had to guard it. They were in charge of the key that opened the temple each morning. 
1Chronicles9:28 Some Levites were in charge of the articles that were used when they served at the temple. They counted the articles when they were brought in. They also counted them when they were taken out. 
1Chronicles9:29 Other Levites were appointed to take care of all of the other articles that belonged to the temple. They also took care of the flour, wine, olive oil, incense and spices." 
1Chronicles9:30 Some of the priests took care of mixing the spices. 
1Chronicles9:31 There was a Levite named Mattithiah. He was the oldest son of Shallum. Shallum belonged to the family line of Korah. Mattithiah was trusted with the duty of baking the offering bread. 
1Chronicles9:32 The bread was placed on the table every Sabbath day. Some Levites in the family line of Kohath were in charge of preparing the bread. 
1Chronicles9:33 Those who led the music lived in rooms in the temple. They were the leaders of their Levite families. Their only duty was to lead the music. They had to do that work day and night. 
1Chronicles9:34 All of them were the leaders of their Levite families. They were listed as chiefs in their family history. They lived in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles9:35 Jeiel lived in the city of Gibeon. He was the father of Gibeon. Jeiel had a wife named Maacah. 
1Chronicles9:36 His oldest son was Abdon. His other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab," 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth." 
1Chronicles9:38 Mikloth was the father of Shimeam. Mikloth and Shimeam lived in Jerusalem. They lived near their relatives. 
1Chronicles9:39 Ner was the father of Kish. Kish was the father of Saul. Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal." 
1Chronicles9:40 The son of Jonathan was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal was the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles9:40 The son of Jonathan was Merib-Baal. Merib-Baal was the father of Micah. 
1Chronicles9:41 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:41 The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea and Ahaz." 
1Chronicles9:42 Ahaz was the father of Jadah. Jadah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza." 
1Chronicles9:43 Moza was the father of Binea. Rephaiah was Binea's son. Eleasah was Rephaiah's son. And Azel was Eleasah's son. 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons. Their names were Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. They were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles9:44 Azel had six sons. Their names were Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. They were the sons of Azel." 
1Chronicles10:1 The Philistines fought against Israel. The men of Israel ran away from them. But many Israelites were killed on Mount Gilboa. 
1Chronicles10:2 The Philistines kept chasing Saul and his sons. They killed his sons Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua." 
1Chronicles10:3 The fighting was heavy around Saul. Men who were armed with bows and arrows caught up with him. They shot their arrows at him and wounded him badly. 
1Chronicles10:4 Saul spoke to the man who was carrying his armor. He said, ""Pull out your sword. Stick it through me. If you don't, those men who aren't circumcised will come and hurt me badly."" But the man was terrified. He wouldn't do it. So Saul took his own sword and fell on it." 
1Chronicles10:5 The man saw that Saul was dead. So he fell on his own sword and died. 
1Chronicles10:6 Saul and his three sons died. All of them died together. 
1Chronicles10:7 All of the Israelites who lived in the valley saw that their army had run away. They saw that Saul and his sons were dead. So they left their towns and ran away. Then the Philistines came and settled down in them. 
1Chronicles10:8 The day after the Philistines had won the battle, they came to take what they wanted from the dead bodies. They found Saul and his sons dead on Mount Gilboa." 
1Chronicles10:9 So they took what they wanted from Saul's body. They took his head and his armor. Then they sent messengers through the whole land of the Philistines. They announced the news to the statues of their gods. They also announced it among their people. 
1Chronicles10:10 They put Saul's armor in the temple of their gods. They hung his head up in the temple of their god Dagon. 
1Chronicles10:11 The people of Jabesh Gilead heard about everything the Philistines had done to Saul. 
1Chronicles10:12 So all of their brave men went and got the bodies of Saul and his sons. They brought them to Jabesh. Then they buried the bones of Saul and his sons under the great tree that was there. They didn't eat anything for seven days. 
1Chronicles10:13 Saul died because he wasn't faithful to the Lord. He didn't obey the word of the Lord. He even asked for advice from a person who gets messages from those who have died. 
1Chronicles10:14 He didn't ask the Lord for advice. So the Lord put him to death. He turned the kingdom over to David. David was the son of Jesse. 
1Chronicles11:1 The whole community of Israel came together to see David at Hebron. They said, ""We are your own flesh and blood." 
1Chronicles11:2 In the past, Saul was our king. But you led the men of Israel in battle. The Lord your God said to you, 'You will be the shepherd over my people Israel. You will become their ruler.' """ 
1Chronicles11:3 All of the elders of Israel came to see King David at Hebron. There he made a covenant with them in the sight of the Lord. They anointed David as king over Israel. It happened just as the Lord had promised through Samuel. 
1Chronicles11:4 David and all of the men of Israel marched to Jerusalem. Jerusalem was also called Jebus. The Jebusites who lived there 
1Chronicles11:5 spoke to David. They said, ""You won't get in here."" But David captured the fort of Zion. It became known as the City of David." 
1Chronicles11:6 David had said, ""Anyone who leads the attack against the Jebusites will become the commander of Israel's army."" Joab went up first. So he became the commander of the army. He was the son of Zeruiah." 
1Chronicles11:7 David moved into the fort. So it was called the City of David. 
1Chronicles11:8 He built up the city around the fort. He filled in the low places. He built a wall around it. During that time, Joab built up the rest of the city." 
1Chronicles11:9 David became more and more powerful. That's because the Lord who rules over all was with him. 
1Chronicles11:10 The chiefs of David's mighty men and the whole community of Israel helped David greatly. They helped him become king over the entire land. That's exactly what the Lord had promised him. 
1Chronicles11:11 Here is a list of David's mighty men. Jashobeam was chief of the officers. He was a Hacmonite. He used his spear against 300 men. He killed all of them at one time. 
1Chronicles11:12 Next to him was Eleazar. He was one of the three mighty men. He was the son of Dodai, the Ahohite." 
1Chronicles11:13 Jashobeam was with David at Pas Dammim. The Philistines had gathered there for battle. Israel's troops ran away from the Philistines. At the place where that happened, there was a field that was full of barley." 
1Chronicles11:14 The three mighty men took their stand in the middle of the field. They didn't let the Philistines capture it. They struck them down. The Lord helped them win a great battle. 
1Chronicles11:15 David was near the rock at the cave of Adullam. Three of the 30 chiefs came down to him there. A group of Philistines was camped in the Valley of Rephaim. 
1Chronicles11:16 At that time David was in his usual place of safety. Some Philistine troops were stationed at Bethlehem. 
1Chronicles11:17 David longed for water. He said, ""I wish someone would get me a drink of water from the well that is near the gate of Bethlehem!""" 
1Chronicles11:18 So the Three fought their way past the Philistine guards. They got some water from the well that was near the gate of Bethlehem. They took the water back to David. But David refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out as a drink offering to the Lord." 
1Chronicles11:19 I would never drink that water! David said. It would be like drinking the blood of these men. They put their lives in danger by going to Bethlehem. The men had put their lives in danger by bringing the water back. So David wouldn't drink it. Those were some of the brave things the three mighty men did. 
1Chronicles11:20 Abishai was chief over the Three. He was the brother of Joab. He used his spear against 300 men. He killed all of them. So he became as famous as the Three were. 
1Chronicles11:21 He was honored twice as much as the Three. He became their commander. But he wasn't included among them. 
1Chronicles11:22 Benaiah was a great hero from Kabzeel. He was the son of Jehoiada. Benaiah did many brave things. He struck down two of Moab's best fighting men. He also went down into a pit on a snowy day. He killed a lion there. 
1Chronicles11:23 And Benaiah struck down an Egyptian who was seven and a half feet tall. The Egyptian was holding a spear as big as a weaver's rod. Benaiah went out to fight against him with a club. He grabbed the spear out of the Egyptian's hand. Then he killed him with it. 
1Chronicles11:24 Those were some of the brave things Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, did. He too was as famous as the three mighty men were." 
1Chronicles11:25 He was honored more than any of the Thirty. But he wasn't included among the Three. And David put him in charge of his own personal guards. 
1Chronicles11:26 Here is a list of David's mighty men. Asahel, the brother of Joab Elhanan, the son of Dodo, from Bethlehem" 
1Chronicles11:27 Shammoth, the Harorite Helez, the Pelonite" 
1Chronicles11:28 Ira, the son of Ikkesh, from Tekoa Abiezer from Anathoth" 
1Chronicles11:29 Sibbecai, the Hushathite Ilai, the Ahohite" 
1Chronicles11:30 Maharai from Netophah Heled, the son of Baanah, from Netophah" 
1Chronicles11:31 Ithai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah in Benjamin Benaiah from Pirathon" 
1Chronicles11:32 Hurai from the valleys of Gaash Abiel, the Arbathite" 
1Chronicles11:33 Azmaveth, the Baharumite Eliahba, the Shaalbonite" 
1Chronicles11:34 the sons of Hashem, the Gizonite Jonathan, the son of Shagee, the Hararite" 
1Chronicles11:35 Ahiam, the son of Sacar, the Hararite Eliphal, the son of Ur" 
1Chronicles11:36 Hepher, the Mekerathite Ahijah, the Pelonite" 
1Chronicles11:37 Hezro from Carmel Naarai, the son of Ezbai" 
1Chronicles11:38 Joel, the brother of Nathan Mibhar, the son of Hagri" 
1Chronicles11:38 Joel, the brother of Nathan Mibhar, the son of Hagri" 
1Chronicles11:39 Zelek from Ammon Naharai, from Beeroth, who carried the armor of Joab, the son of Zeruiah" 
1Chronicles11:40 Ira, the Ithrite Gareb, the Ithrite" 
1Chronicles11:41 Uriah, the Hittite Zabad, the son of Ahlai" 
1Chronicles11:42 Adina, the son of Shiza, the Reubenite, who was chief of the Reubenites and the 30 men with him" 
1Chronicles11:43 Hanan, the son of Maacah Joshaphat, the Mithnite" 
1Chronicles11:44 Uzzia, the Ashterathite Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham from Aroer" 
1Chronicles11:45 Jediael, the son of Shimri his brother Joha, the Tizite" 
1Chronicles11:46 Eliel, the Mahavite Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam Ithmah from Moab" 
1Chronicles11:47 Eliel Obed Jaasiel, the Mezobaite" 
1Chronicles12:1 Some fighting men came to David at Ziklag. They were among those who helped him in battle. David had been forced to hide from Saul, the son of Kish." 
1Chronicles12:2 The men were armed with bows. They were able to shoot arrows or throw stones from a sling with either hand. They were relatives of Saul from the tribe of Benjamin. Here is a list of them. 
1Chronicles12:3 Their chief Ahiezer and Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth Beracah Jehu from Anathoth" 
1Chronicles12:4 Ishmaiah, the Gibeonite, who was a mighty man among the Thirty and a leader of the Thirty Jeremiah Jahaziel Johanan Jozabad from Gederah" 
1Chronicles12:4 Ishmaiah, the Gibeonite, who was a mighty man among the Thirty and a leader of the Thirty Jeremiah Jahaziel Johanan Jozabad from Gederah" 
1Chronicles12:5 Eluzai Jerimoth Bealiah Shemariah Shephatiah, the Haruphite" 
1Chronicles12:6 the Korahites Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer and Jashobeam" 
1Chronicles12:7 Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham from Gedor" 
1Chronicles12:7 Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham from Gedor" 
1Chronicles12:8 Some men of Gad went over to David's side at his usual place of safety in the desert. They were brave fighting men. They were ready for battle. They were able to use shields and spears. Their faces were like the faces of lions. They could run as fast as antelopes in the mountains. 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer was their chief. Obadiah was next in command. Eliab was third. 
1Chronicles12:9 Ezer was their chief. Obadiah was next in command. Eliab was third. 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah was fourth. Jeremiah was fifth. 
1Chronicles12:10 Mishmannah was fourth. Jeremiah was fifth. 
1Chronicles12:11 Attai was sixth. Eliel was seventh. 
1Chronicles12:12 Johanan was eighth. Elzabad was ninth. 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah was tenth. And Macbannai was eleventh. 
1Chronicles12:13 Jeremiah was tenth. And Macbannai was eleventh. 
1Chronicles12:14 All of those men of Gad were army commanders. The least important of them was equal to 100 men. The most important was equal to 1,000." 
1Chronicles12:15 They went across the Jordan River when it was flowing over its banks. That happened in the first month of spring. They chased away everyone who lived in the valleys. They chased them away from the east and west sides of the river. 
1Chronicles12:16 Some men from the territories of Benjamin and Judah also came to David at his usual place of safety. 
1Chronicles12:17 David went out to meet them. He said to them, ""Have you come to me in peace? Have you come to help me? If you have, I'm ready to have you join me. But suppose you have come to hand me over to my enemies when I haven't even harmed anyone. Then may the God of our people see it and judge you.""" 
1Chronicles12:18 The Spirit of God came on Amasai. He was chief of the Thirty. He said, ""David, we belong to you! Son of Jesse, we're on your side! May you have great success. May those who help you also have success. Your God will help you."" So David welcomed them. He made them leaders in his army." 
1Chronicles12:19 Some men of Manasseh went over to David's side when he marched out with the Philistines to fight against Saul. But David and his men didn't help the Philistines. That's because after all of the Philistine rulers had discussed the matter, they sent him away. They said, ""Suppose he deserts to his master Saul. Then our heads will be cut off!""" 
1Chronicles12:20 So David went to Ziklag. Here are the men of Manasseh who went over to his side. They were Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu and Zillethai. They were leaders of companies of 1,000 men in Manasseh." 
1Chronicles12:21 They helped David fight against enemy armies. All of the men of Manasseh were brave fighting men. They were commanders in David's army. 
1Chronicles12:22 Day after day men came to help him. Soon he had a large army. It was like the army of God. 
1Chronicles12:23 Large numbers of men came to David at Hebron. They were prepared for battle. They came to hand Saul's kingdom over to him, just as the Lord had said. Here are the numbers of the men who came." 
1Chronicles12:24 The men from Judah carried shields and spears. They were prepared for battle. The total number of them was 6,800." 
1Chronicles12:25 The fighting men from Simeon were ready for battle. The total number of them was 7,100." 
1Chronicles12:26 The total number of men from Levi was 4,600." 
1Chronicles12:27 They included Jehoiada. He was the leader of the family of Aaron. He came with 3,700 men." 
1Chronicles12:28 They also included Zadok. He was a brave young fighter. He came with 22 officers from his family. 
1Chronicles12:29 The men from Benjamin were Saul's relatives. Most of them had remained faithful to Saul's family until that time. The total number of them was 3,000." 
1Chronicles12:30 The men from Ephraim were brave fighting men. They were famous in their own family groups. The total number of them was 20,800." 
1Chronicles12:31 The men from half of the tribe of Manasseh had been chosen by name to come and make David king. The total number of them was 18,000." 
1Chronicles12:32 The men from Issachar understood what was going on at that time. They knew what Israel should do. The total number of their chiefs was 200. They came with all of their relatives who were under their command. 
1Chronicles12:33 The men from Zebulun knew how to fight well. That's because they had done it many times before. They were prepared for battle. They had every kind of weapon. They came to help David with their whole heart. The total number of them was 50,000." 
1Chronicles12:34 The total number of officers from Naphtali was 1,000. They came with 37,000 men who carried shields and spears." 
1Chronicles12:35 The men from Dan were ready for battle. The total number of them was 28,600." 
1Chronicles12:36 The men from Asher knew how to fight well. That's because they had done it many times before. They were prepared for battle. The total number of them was 40,000." 
1Chronicles12:37 The men from the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh were armed with every kind of weapon. The men came from the east side of the Jordan River. The total number of them was 120,000." 
1Chronicles12:38 All of those fighting men offered to serve in the army. Before they came to Hebron, they had agreed completely to make David king over all of the people of Israel. All of the rest of the people also agreed to make David king." 
1Chronicles12:39 The men spent three days there with David. They ate and drank what their families had given them. 
1Chronicles12:40 Their neighbors also brought food. They brought it on donkeys, camels, mules and oxen. They came from as far away as the territories of Issachar, Zebulun and Naphtali. There was plenty of flour, fig cakes, raisin cakes, wine, olive oil, cattle and sheep. The people of Israel brought all of those things because they were so happy." 
1Chronicles13:1 David talked with each of his officers. He wanted to get their advice. Some of them were commanders of thousands of men. Others were commanders of hundreds. 
1Chronicles13:2 David spoke to the whole community of Israel. He said, ""Let's send word to the rest of our people no matter how far away they live. They live in all of the territories of Israel. Let's also send word to the priests and Levites who are with them in their towns and grasslands. Let's invite everyone to come and join us. Let's do it if it seems good to you and if that's what the Lord our God wants." 
1Chronicles13:3 Let's bring the ark of our God back here to us. We didn't use it to ask God for advice during the whole time Saul was king. 
1Chronicles13:4 So that's what the whole community agreed to do. It seemed right to them. 
1Chronicles13:5 David gathered all of the people together. They came from the area between the Shihor River in Egypt and Lebo Hamath. They came to bring the ark of God from Kiriath Jearim to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles13:6 David went to Baalah of Judah. The whole community of Israel went with him. Baalah is also called Kiriath Jearim. All of the people went there to get the ark of God the Lord. He sits on his throne between the cherubim. The ark is named after the Lord. 
1Chronicles13:7 The ark of God was placed on a new cart. Then it was moved from Abinadab's house. Uzzah and Ahio were guiding it. 
1Chronicles13:8 David was celebrating with all his might in the sight of God. So was the whole community of Israel. All of them were singing songs. They were also playing harps, lyres, tambourines, cymbals and trumpets." 
1Chronicles13:9 They came to the threshing floor of Kidon. The oxen nearly fell there. So Uzzah reached out his hand to hold the ark steady. 
1Chronicles13:10 Then the Lord's anger burned against Uzzah. He struck him down because he had put his hand on the ark. So Uzzah died there in front of God. 
1Chronicles13:11 David was angry because the Lord's burning anger had broken out against Uzzah. That's why the place is still called Perez Uzzah to this very day. 
1Chronicles13:12 David was afraid of God that day. He asked, ""How can I ever bring the ark of God back here to me?""" 
1Chronicles13:13 So he didn't take the ark to be with him in the City of David. Instead, he took it to the house of Obed-Edom. Obed-Edom was from Gath." 
1Chronicles13:14 The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom. It stayed in his house for three months. And the Lord blessed his family. He also blessed everything that belonged to him. 
1Chronicles14:1 Hiram was king of Tyre. He sent messengers to David. He sent cedar logs along with them. He also sent skilled workers to build a palace for David. They worked with stone and wood. 
1Chronicles14:2 David knew that the Lord had made his position as king secure. He knew that he had made him king over the whole nation of Israel. He knew that the Lord had greatly honored his kingdom. The Lord had done it because the Israelites were his people. 
1Chronicles14:3 In Jerusalem David got married to more women. He also became the father of more sons and daughters. 
1Chronicles14:4 Here is a list of the children who were born to him in Jerusalem. Their names were Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon," 
1Chronicles14:5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet," 
1Chronicles14:6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia," 
1Chronicles14:7 Elishama, Beeliada and Eliphelet." 
1Chronicles14:8 The Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over the entire nation of Israel. So their whole army went to look for him. But David heard about it. He went out to where they were. 
1Chronicles14:9 The Philistines had come and attacked the people in the Valley of Rephaim. 
1Chronicles14:10 So David asked God for advice. He said, ""Should I go and attack the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?"" The Lord answered him, ""Go. I will hand them over to you.""" 
1Chronicles14:11 So David and his men went up to Baal Perazim. There David won the battle over the Philistines. He said, ""God has broken through against my enemies, just as water breaks through a dam."" That's why the place was called Baal Perazim." 
1Chronicles14:12 The Philistines had left the statues of their gods there. So David gave orders to burn them up. 
1Chronicles14:13 Once more the Philistines attacked the people in the valley. 
1Chronicles14:14 So David asked God for advice again. God answered him, ""Do not go straight up. Instead, circle around them. Attack them in front of the balsam trees." 
1Chronicles14:15 Listen for the sound of marching in the tops of the trees. Then move out to fight. The sound will mean that I have gone out in front of you. I will strike down the Philistine army. 
1Chronicles14:16 So David did just as God had commanded him. He and his men struck down the Philistine army. They struck them down from Gibeon all the way to Gezer. 
1Chronicles14:17 So David became famous in every land. The Lord made all of the nations afraid of him. 
1Chronicles15:1 David constructed buildings for himself in the City of David. Then he prepared a place for the ark of God. He set up a tent for it. 
1Chronicles15:2 He said, ""Only Levites can carry the ark of God. That's because the Lord chose them to carry his ark. He chose them to serve him forever in front of the place where his throne is.""" 
1Chronicles15:3 David gathered the whole community of Israel together in Jerusalem. He wanted to bring the ark of the Lord up to the place he had prepared for it. 
1Chronicles15:4 He called together the members of the family line of Aaron. He also called the Levites together. Here are the men who came from the families of the Levites. 
1Chronicles15:5 From the families of Kohath came the leader Uriel and 120 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:6 From the families of Merari came the leader Asaiah and 220 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:7 From the families of Gershon came the leader Joel and 130 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:7 From the families of Gershon came the leader Joel and 130 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:8 From the families of Elizaphan came the leader Shemaiah and 200 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:9 From the families of Hebron came the leader Eliel and 80 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:10 From the families of Uzziel came the leader Amminadab and 112 relatives. 
1Chronicles15:11 David sent for the priests Zadok and Abiathar. He also sent for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab. They were Levites." 
1Chronicles15:11 David sent for the priests Zadok and Abiathar. He also sent for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab. They were Levites." 
1Chronicles15:12 He said to them, ""You are the leaders of the families of Levi. You and the other Levites must set yourselves apart to serve the Lord and his people. You must bring up the ark of the Lord. He is the God of Israel. Put the ark in the place I've prepared for it." 
1Chronicles15:13 Remember when the anger of the Lord our God broke out against us? It was because you Levites didn't bring the ark up the first time. We didn't ask the Lord how to do it in the way the law requires. 
1Chronicles15:14 So the priests and Levites set themselves apart. Then they brought up the ark of the Lord. He is the God of Israel. 
1Chronicles15:15 This time the Levites used the poles to carry the ark of God on their shoulders. That's what Moses had commanded in keeping with the word of the Lord. 
1Chronicles15:16 David told the Levite leaders to appoint their relatives as singers. He wanted them to sing joyful songs. He also wanted them to play lyres, harps and cymbals along with their singing." 
1Chronicles15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman, the son of Joel. From his relatives they chose Asaph, the son of Berekiah. Other relatives were from the family of Merari. From them they chose Ethan, the son of Kushaiah." 
1Chronicles15:17 So the Levites appointed Heman, the son of Joel. From his relatives they chose Asaph, the son of Berekiah. Other relatives were from the family of Merari. From them they chose Ethan, the son of Kushaiah." 
1Chronicles15:18 Along with them they chose their relatives who were next in line. Their names were Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. They guarded the gates." 
1Chronicles15:18 Along with them they chose their relatives who were next in line. Their names were Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. They guarded the gates." 
1Chronicles15:19 Heman, Asaph and Ethan played the bronze cymbals." 
1Chronicles15:20 Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah played the high notes on the lyres." 
1Chronicles15:20 Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah played the high notes on the lyres." 
1Chronicles15:21 Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel and Azaziah played the low notes on the harps." 
1Chronicles15:22 Kenaniah was the leader of the Levites. He was in charge of the singing because he was good at it. 
1Chronicles15:23 Berekiah and Elkanah guarded the ark. 
1Chronicles15:24 Some of the priests blew trumpets in front of the ark of God. Their names were Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer. Obed-Edom and Jehiah also helped guard the ark." 
1Chronicles15:24 Some of the priests blew trumpets in front of the ark of God. Their names were Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer. Obed-Edom and Jehiah also helped guard the ark." 
1Chronicles15:25 David and the elders of Israel went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord. So did the commanders of companies of 1,000 men. With great joy they brought the ark up from the house of Obed-Edom." 
1Chronicles15:26 God had helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord. So seven bulls and seven rams were sacrificed. 
1Chronicles15:27 David was wearing a robe that was made out of fine linen. So were all of the Levites who were carrying the ark. And so were the singers and the choir director Kenaniah. David was also wearing a sacred linen apron. 
1Chronicles15:28 So the whole community of Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord. They shouted. They blew rams' horns and trumpets. They played cymbals, lyres and harps." 
1Chronicles15:29 The ark of the covenant of the Lord was brought into the City of David. Saul's daughter Michal was watching from a window. She saw King David dancing and celebrating. That made her hate him in her heart. 
1Chronicles16:1 The ark of God was brought into Jerusalem. It was put in the tent David had set up for it. The priests brought burnt offerings and friendship offerings to God. 
1Chronicles16:2 After David finished sacrificing those offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord." 
1Chronicles16:3 He gave to each Israelite man and woman a loaf of bread. He also gave each one a date cake and a raisin cake. 
1Chronicles16:4 He appointed some of the Levites to serve in front of the ark of the Lord. David wanted them to pray, give thanks and praise the Lord. He is the God of Israel." 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph was the leader of those Levites. Zechariah was next. Then came Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. They played the lyres and harps. Asaph played the cymbals." 
1Chronicles16:5 Asaph was the leader of those Levites. Zechariah was next. Then came Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. They played the lyres and harps. Asaph played the cymbals." 
1Chronicles16:6 The priests Benaiah and Jahaziel blew the trumpets. They blew them at regular times in front of the ark of the covenant of God. 
1Chronicles16:7 That day was the first time David gave Asaph and his helpers this psalm of thanks to the Lord. 
1Chronicles16:8 Give thanks to the Lord. Worship him. Tell the nations what he has done. 
1Chronicles16:9 Sing to him. Sing praise to him. Tell about all of the wonderful things he has done. 
1Chronicles16:10 Praise him, because his name is holy. Let the hearts of those who trust in the Lord be glad." 
1Chronicles16:11 Look to the Lord and to his strength. Always look to him. 
1Chronicles16:12 Remember the wonderful things he has done. Remember his miracles and how he judged our enemies. 
1Chronicles16:13 Remember what he has done, you children of his servant Israel. Remember it, you people of Jacob. You are God's chosen ones." 
1Chronicles16:14 He is the Lord our God. He judges the whole earth. 
1Chronicles16:15 He will keep his covenant forever. He will keep his promise for all time to come. 
1Chronicles16:16 He will keep the covenant he made with Abraham. He will keep the oath he took when he made his promise to Isaac. 
1Chronicles16:17 He made it stand as a law for Jacob. He made it stand as a covenant for Israel. It will last forever. 
1Chronicles16:18 He said, ""I will give you the land of Canaan. It will belong to you.""" 
1Chronicles16:19 At first there weren't very many of God's people. There were only a few. And they were strangers in the land. 
1Chronicles16:20 They wandered from nation to nation. They wandered from one kingdom to another. 
1Chronicles16:21 But God didn't allow anyone to beat them down. To keep them safe, he gave a command to kings." 
1Chronicles16:22 He said to them, ""Do not touch my anointed ones. Do not harm my prophets.""" 
1Chronicles16:23 All you people of the earth, sing to the Lord. Day after day tell about how he saves us." 
1Chronicles16:24 Tell the nations about his glory. Tell all people about the wonderful things he has done. 
1Chronicles16:25 The Lord is great. He is really worthy of praise. People should have respect for him as the greatest God of all. 
1Chronicles16:26 All of the gods of the nations are like their statues. They can't do anything. But the Lord made the heavens. 
1Chronicles16:27 Glory and majesty are all around him. Strength and joy can be seen in the place where he lives. 
1Chronicles16:28 Praise the Lord, all you nations. Praise the Lord for his glory and strength." 
1Chronicles16:29 Praise the Lord for the glory that belongs to him. Bring an offering and come to him. Worship the Lord because of his beauty and holiness. 
1Chronicles16:30 All you people of the earth, tremble when you are with him. The world is firmly set in place. It can't be moved." 
1Chronicles16:31 Let the heavens be filled with joy. Let the earth be glad. Let them say among the nations, ""The Lord rules!""" 
1Chronicles16:32 Let the ocean and everything in it roar. Let the fields and everything in them be glad. 
1Chronicles16:33 Then the trees in the forest will sing with joy. They will sing to the Lord. He will judge the people of the world. 
1Chronicles16:34 Give thanks to the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever." 
1Chronicles16:35 Cry out, ""Save us, God our Savior. Save us. Bring us back from among the nations. Then we will give thanks to you, because your name is holy. We will celebrate by praising you.""" 
1Chronicles16:36 Give praise to the Lord, the God of Israel, for ever and ever. Then all of the people said, ""Amen!"" They also said, ""Praise the Lord.""" 
1Chronicles16:37 David left Asaph and his helpers to serve in front of the ark of the covenant of the Lord. They served there at regular times. They did it as they were required to do each day. 
1Chronicles16:38 David also left Obed-Edom and his 68 helpers to serve with them. Obed-Edom and Hosah guarded the gates. Obed-Edom was the son of Jeduthun. 
1Chronicles16:39 David left the priest Zadok and some other priests in front of the holy tent of the Lord. It was at the high place in Gibeon. 
1Chronicles16:40 David left them there to sacrifice burnt offerings to the Lord on the altar every morning and evening. They did it in keeping with everything that is written in the Law of the Lord. That's the Law he had given to Israel. 
1Chronicles16:41 Heman and Jeduthun were with the priests. So were the rest of those who had been chosen by name and appointed to serve. They had been chosen to give thanks to the Lord, ""because his faithful love continues forever.""" 
1Chronicles16:42 It was the duty of Heman and Jeduthun to blow the trumpets. They also had the duty of playing the cymbals and other instruments for the sacred songs. The sons of Jeduthun were stationed at one of the gates. 
1Chronicles16:43 All of the people left. Everyone went home. And David returned home to bless his family. 
1Chronicles17:1 David settled down in his palace. Then he spoke to the prophet Nathan. He said, ""Here I am, living in a palace that has beautiful cedar walls. But the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under a tent.""" 
1Chronicles17:2 Nathan replied to David, ""Do what you want to. God is with you.""" 
1Chronicles17:3 That night a message came to Nathan from God. He said," 
1Chronicles17:4 Go and speak to my servant David. Tell him, 'The Lord says, ""You are not the one who will build me a house to live in." 
1Chronicles17:5 I have not lived in a house from the day I brought Israel up out of Egypt until now. I have moved my tent from one place to another. I have moved my home from one place to another. 
1Chronicles17:6 I have moved from place to place with all of the people of Israel. I commanded their leaders to be shepherds over them. I never asked any of those leaders, 'Why haven't you built me a house that has beautiful cedar walls?' "" '" 
1Chronicles17:7 So tell my servant David, 'The Lord who rules over all says, ""I took you away from the grasslands. That is where you were taking care of your father's sheep and goats. I made you ruler over my people Israel." 
1Chronicles17:8 I have been with you everywhere you have gone. I cut off all of your enemies when you were attacking them. Now I will make you famous. Your name will be just as respected as the names of the most important people on earth. 
1Chronicles17:9  ' I will provide a place where my people Israel can live. I will plant them in the land. Then they will have a home of their own. They will not be bothered anymore. Sinful people will no longer crush them, as they did at first." 
1Chronicles17:10 That is what your enemies have done ever since I appointed leaders over my people Israel. But I will bring all of them under your control.  ' I tell you that I will build a royal house for your family. 
1Chronicles17:11 Some day your life will come to an end. You will join the members of your family who have already died. Then I will give you one of your own sons to become the next king after you. I will make his kingdom secure. 
1Chronicles17:12  ' He is the one who will build me a house. I will set up his throne. It will last forever. 
1Chronicles17:13 I will be his father. And he will be my son. I took my love away from the man who ruled before you. But I will never take my love away from your son. 
1Chronicles17:14 I will place him over my house and my kingdom forever. His throne will last forever. ' 
1Chronicles17:15 Nathan reported to David all of the words that the Lord had spoken to him. 
1Chronicles17:16 Then King David went into the holy tent. He sat down in front of the Lord. He said, ""Lord God, who am I? My family isn't important. So why have you brought me this far?" 
1Chronicles17:17 I would have thought that you had already done more than enough for me. But now, God, you have spoken about what is going to happen to my royal house in days to come. Lord God, you have treated me as if I were the most honored man of all." 
1Chronicles17:18 What more can I say to you for honoring me? You know all about me. 
1Chronicles17:19 Lord, you have done a wonderful thing. You have given me many great promises. All of them are for my good. They are exactly what you wanted to give me." 
1Chronicles17:20 Lord, there isn't anyone like you. There isn't any God but you. We have heard about it with our own ears." 
1Chronicles17:21 Who is like your people Israel? God, we are the one nation on earth you have saved. You have set us free for yourself. Your name has become famous. You have done great and wonderful things. You have driven nations out to make room for your people. You saved us when you set us free from Egypt. No other god has done any of those things for its people." 
1Chronicles17:22 You made Israel your very own people forever. Lord, you have become our God." 
1Chronicles17:23 And now, Lord, let the promise you have made to me and my royal house stand forever. Do exactly as you promised." 
1Chronicles17:24 When your promise comes true, your name will be honored forever. People will say, 'The Lord rules over all. He is the God over Israel. He is Israel's God.' My royal house will be made secure in your sight." 
1Chronicles17:25 My God, you have shown me that you will build me a royal house. So I can pray to you boldly." 
1Chronicles17:26 Lord, you are God! You have promised many good things to me." 
1Chronicles17:27 You have been pleased to bless my royal house. Now it will continue forever in your sight. Lord, you have blessed it. And it will be blessed forever.""" 
1Chronicles18:1 While David was king of Israel, he won many battles over the Philistines. He brought them under his control. He took Gath away from the Philistines. He also captured the villages that were around Gath." 
1Chronicles18:2 David also won the battle over the people of Moab. They were brought under his rule. They gave him the gifts he required them to bring him. 
1Chronicles18:3 David fought against Hadadezer all the way to Hamath. Hadadezer was king of Zobah. He had gone to take complete control of the land along the Euphrates River. 
1Chronicles18:4 David captured 1,000 of Hadadezer's chariots, 7,000 chariot riders and 20,000 soldiers on foot. He cut the legs of all but 100 of the chariot horses." 
1Chronicles18:5 The Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, the king of Zobah. But David struck down 22,000 of them." 
1Chronicles18:6 He stationed some soldiers in the Aramean kingdom of Damascus. The people of Aram were brought under his rule. They gave him the gifts he required them to bring him. The Lord helped David win his battles everywhere he went. 
1Chronicles18:7 David took the gold shields that were carried by the officers of Hadadezer. He brought the shields to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles18:8 He took a huge amount of bronze from Tebah and Cun. Those towns belonged to Hadadezer. Later, Solomon used the bronze to make the huge bronze bowl for washing. He also used it to make the pillars and many other bronze articles for the temple." 
1Chronicles18:9 Tou was king of Hamath. He heard that David had won the battle over the entire army of Hadadezer, the king of Zobah." 
1Chronicles18:10 So Tou sent his son Hadoram to King David. Hadoram greeted David. He praised him because he had won the battle over Hadadezer. Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. So Hadoram brought David all kinds of articles that were made out of gold, silver and bronze." 
1Chronicles18:11 King David set those articles apart for the Lord. He had done the same thing with the silver and gold he had taken from other nations. The nations were Edom, Moab, Ammon, Philistia and Amalek." 
1Chronicles18:12 Abishai struck down 18,000 men of Edom in the Valley of Salt. Abishai was the son of Zeruiah." 
1Chronicles18:13 He stationed some soldiers in Edom. The whole nation of Edom was brought under his rule. The Lord helped David win his battles everywhere he went. 
1Chronicles18:14 David ruled over the whole nation of Israel. He did what was fair and right for all of his people. 
1Chronicles18:15 Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was commander over the army. Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, kept the records." 
1Chronicles18:16 Zadok, the son of Ahitub, was a priest. Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, was also a priest. Shavsha was the secretary." 
1Chronicles18:17 Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was commander over the Kerethites and Pelethites. And King David's sons were the chief officials who served at his side." 
1Chronicles19:1 Nahash was king of Ammon. After he died, his son became the next king after him." 
1Chronicles19:2 David thought, ""I'm going to be kind to Hanun. His father Nahash was kind to me."" So David sent messengers to Hanun. He wanted them to tell Hanun how sad he was that Hanun's father had died. David's messengers went to the land of Ammon. They told Hanun how sad David was." 
1Chronicles19:3 The Ammonite nobles spoke to Hanun. They said, ""David has sent messengers to tell you he is sad. They say he wants to honor your father. But the real reason they've come is to look the land over. They want to destroy it.""" 
1Chronicles19:4 So Hanun grabbed hold of David's men. He shaved them. He cut their clothes off just below the waist and left them half naked. Then he sent them away. 
1Chronicles19:5 Someone came and told David what had happened to his men. So David sent messengers to them because they were filled with shame. King David said to them, ""Stay at Jericho until your beards grow out again. Then come back here.""" 
1Chronicles19:6 The Ammonites realized that what they had done had made David very angry with them. So Hanun and the Ammonites got 37 tons of silver. They used it to hire chariots and chariot riders from Aram Naharaim, Aram Maacah and Zobah." 
1Chronicles19:7 They hired 32,000 chariots and riders. They also hired the king of Maacah and his troops. All of them came out and camped near Medeba. At the same time the Ammonites brought their troops together from their towns. Then they marched out to fight." 
1Chronicles19:8 David heard about it. So he sent Joab out with the entire army of Israel's fighting men. 
1Chronicles19:9 The Ammonites marched out. They took up their battle positions at the entrance to their city. The kings who came to help them gathered their troops together in the open country. 
1Chronicles19:10 Joab saw that there were lines of soldiers in front of him and behind him. So he chose some of the best troops in Israel. He sent them to march out against the Arameans. 
1Chronicles19:11 He put the rest of the men under the command of his brother Abishai. They were sent to march out against the Ammonites. 
1Chronicles19:12 Joab said, ""Suppose the Arameans are too strong for me. Then you must come and help me. But suppose the Ammonites are too strong for you. Then I'll come and help you." 
1Chronicles19:13 Be strong. Let's be brave as we fight for our people and the cities of our God. The Lord will do what he thinks is best. 
1Chronicles19:14 Then Joab and the troops who were with him marched out to attack the Arameans. They ran away from him. 
1Chronicles19:15 The Ammonites saw that the Arameans were running away. So they also ran away from Joab's brother Abishai. They went inside the city. Then Joab went back to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles19:16 The Arameans saw that they had been driven away by Israel. So they sent messengers to get some Arameans from east of the Euphrates River. The Arameans were under the command of Shophach. He was the commander of Hadadezer's army. 
1Chronicles19:17 David was told about it. So he gathered the whole army of Israel together. They went across the Jordan River. David marched out against the Arameans. He lined up his soldiers opposite them. He lined them up to meet the Arameans in battle. The Arameans began to fight against him. 
1Chronicles19:18 But then they ran away from Israel. David killed 7,000 of their chariot riders. He killed 40,000 of their soldiers who were on foot. He also killed Shophach, the commander of their army." 
1Chronicles19:19 The people who were under the rule of Hadadezer saw that Israel had won the battle over them. So they made a peace treaty with David. They were brought under his rule. After that, the Arameans wouldn't help the Ammonites anymore." 
1Chronicles20:1 In the spring, Joab led Israel's army out. It was the time when kings go off to war. Joab destroyed the land of Ammon. He went to the city of Rabbah. He surrounded it and got ready to attack it. But David remained in Jerusalem. Later, Joab attacked Rabbah and completely destroyed it." 
1Chronicles20:2 David took the gold crown off the head of the king of Ammon. The crown weighed 75 pounds. It had jewels in it. It was placed on David's head. He took a huge amount of goods from the city. 
1Chronicles20:3 He brought out the people who were there. He made them work with saws and iron picks and axes. David did that to all of the towns in Ammon. Then he and his entire army returned to Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles20:4 War broke out at Gezer against the Philistines. At that time Sibbecai killed Sippai. So the Philistines were brought under Israel's control. Sibbecai was a Hushathite. Sippai was from the family line of Rapha. 
1Chronicles20:5 In another battle against the Philistines, Elhanan killed Lahmi. Elhanan was the son of Jair. Lahmi was the brother of Goliath. Goliath was from the city of Gath. Lahmi's spear was as big as a weaver's rod." 
1Chronicles20:6 There was still another battle. It took place at Gath. A huge man lived there. He had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. So the total number of his toes and fingers was 24. He was also from the family line of Rapha. 
1Chronicles20:7 He made fun of Israel. So Jonathan killed him. Jonathan was the son of David's brother Shimea. 
1Chronicles20:8 Those Philistine men lived in Gath. They were from the family line of Rapha. David and his men killed them. 
1Chronicles21:1 Satan rose up against Israel. He stirred up David to count the men of Israel. 
1Chronicles21:2 So David spoke to Joab and the commanders of the troops. He said, ""Go! Count the men of Israel from Beersheba all the way to Dan. Report back to me. Then I'll know how many there are.""" 
1Chronicles21:3 Joab replied, ""May the Lord multiply his troops 100 times. King David, you are my master. Aren't all of the men under your control? Why would you want me to count them? Do you want to make Israel guilty?""" 
1Chronicles21:4 In spite of what Joab said, the king's word had more authority than Joab's word did. So Joab left and went all through Israel. Then he came back to Jerusalem." 
1Chronicles21:5 Joab reported to David how many fighting men he had counted. In the whole land of Israel there were 1,100,000 men who could use a sword well. That included 470,000 men in Judah." 
1Chronicles21:6 But Joab didn't include the tribes of Levi and Benjamin in the total number. The king's command was sickening to Joab. 
1Chronicles21:7 It was also evil in the sight of God. So he punished Israel. 
1Chronicles21:8 Then David said to God, ""I committed a great sin when I counted Israel's men. I beg you to take away my guilt. I've done a very foolish thing.""" 
1Chronicles21:9 The Lord spoke to David's prophet Gad. He said," 
1Chronicles21:10 Go and tell David, 'The Lord says, ""I could punish you in three different ways. Choose one of them for me to use against you."" ' """ 
1Chronicles21:11 So Gad went to David. He said to him, ""The Lord says, 'Take your choice." 
1Chronicles21:12 You can have three years when there will not be enough food in the land. You can have three months when your enemies will sweep you away. They will catch up with you. They will cut you down with their swords. Or you can have three days when my sword will punish you. That means there would be three days of plague in the land. My angel would strike people down in every part of Israel.' So take your pick. Tell me how to answer the One who sent me. 
1Chronicles21:13 David said to Gad, ""I'm suffering terribly. Let me fall into the hands of the Lord. His mercy is very great. But don't let me fall into the hands of men.""" 
1Chronicles21:14 So the Lord sent a plague on Israel. And 70,000 Israelites died." 
1Chronicles21:15 God sent an angel to destroy Jerusalem. But as the angel was doing it, the Lord saw it. He was very sad because of the plague. So he spoke to the angel who was destroying the people. He said, ""That is enough! Do not kill any more people!"" The angel of the Lord was standing at Araunah's threshing floor. Araunah was from the city of Jebus." 
1Chronicles21:16 David looked up. He saw the angel of the Lord standing between heaven and earth. The angel was holding out a sword over Jerusalem. David and the elders fell with their faces to the ground. They were wearing black clothes. 
1Chronicles21:17 David said to God, ""I ordered the fighting men to be counted. I'm the one who has sinned. I'm the one who has done what is wrong. These people are like sheep. What have they done? Lord my God, let your powerful hand punish me and my family. But don't let this plague continue to strike your people.""" 
1Chronicles21:18 Then the angel of the Lord ordered Gad to tell David to go up to the threshing floor of Araunah, the Jebusite. He wanted David to build an altar there to honor the Lord." 
1Chronicles21:19 So David went up and did it. He obeyed the message that Gad had spoken in the Lord's name. 
1Chronicles21:20 Araunah was threshing wheat. He turned and saw the angel. His four children were with him. They hid themselves. 
1Chronicles21:21 David approached the threshing floor. Araunah looked up and saw him. So Araunah left the threshing floor. He bowed down to David with his face toward the ground. 
1Chronicles21:22 David said to him, ""Let me have the property your threshing floor is on. I want to build an altar there to honor the Lord. When I do, the plague on the people will be stopped. Sell the threshing floor to me for the full price.""" 
1Chronicles21:23 Araunah said to David, ""Take it! King David, you are my master. Do what you please. I'll even provide the oxen for the burnt offerings. Use boards from the threshing sleds for the wood. Use the wheat for the grain offering. I'll give all of it to you.""" 
1Chronicles21:24 But King David replied to Araunah, ""No! I want to pay the full price. I won't take what belongs to you and give it to the Lord. I won't sacrifice a burnt offering that hasn't cost me anything.""" 
1Chronicles21:25 So David paid Araunah 15 pounds of gold for the property. 
1Chronicles21:26 David built an altar there to honor the Lord. He sacrificed burnt offerings and friendship offerings. He called out to the Lord. The Lord answered him by sending fire from heaven on the altar for burnt offerings. 
1Chronicles21:27 Then the Lord spoke to the angel. And the angel put his sword away. 
1Chronicles21:28 When the angel did that, David was still at the threshing floor of Araunah, the Jebusite. David saw that the Lord had answered him. So he offered sacrifices there." 
1Chronicles21:29 At that time, the Lord's holy tent was at the high place in Gibeon. The altar for burnt offerings was there too. Moses had made the holy tent in the desert." 
1Chronicles21:30 David couldn't go to the tent to pray to God. That's because he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the Lord. 
1Chronicles22:1 David announced, ""The house of the Lord God will be built here. Israel's altar for burnt offerings will also be here.""" 
1Chronicles22:2 David gave orders to bring together the outsiders who were living in Israel. He appointed some of them to cut stones. He wanted them to prepare blocks of stone for building the house of God. 
1Chronicles22:3 David provided a large amount of iron to make nails. They were for the doors of the gates and for the fittings. He provided more bronze than anyone could weigh. 
1Chronicles22:4 He also provided more cedar logs than anyone could count. The people of Sidon and Tyre brought large numbers of logs to David. 
1Chronicles22:5 David said, ""My son Solomon is young. He's never done anything like this before. The house that will be built for the Lord should be very grand and wonderful. It should be famous and beautiful in the eyes of all of the nations. I'll get things ready for it."" So David got many things ready before he died." 
1Chronicles22:6 Then he sent for his son Solomon. He told him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel." 
1Chronicles22:7 David said to Solomon, ""My son, with all my heart I wanted to build a house for the Lord my God. That's where his Name will be." 
1Chronicles22:8 But a message from the Lord came to me. It said, 'You have spilled the blood of many people. You have fought many wars. You are not the one who will build a house for my Name. That is because I have seen you spill the blood of many people on the earth." 
1Chronicles22:9  'But you are going to have a son. He will be a man of peace. And I will give him peace and rest from all of his enemies on every side. His name will be Solomon. I will give Israel peace and quiet while he is king. 
1Chronicles22:10 He will build a house for my Name. He will be my son. And I will be his father. I will make his kingdom secure over Israel. It will last forever.' 
1Chronicles22:11 My son, may the Lord be with you. May you have success. May you build the house of the Lord your God, just as he said you would." 
1Chronicles22:12 May the Lord give you good sense. May he give you understanding when he makes you king over Israel. Then you will keep the law of the Lord your God. 
1Chronicles22:13 Be careful to obey the rules and laws the Lord gave Moses for Israel. Then you will have success. Be strong and brave. Don't be afraid. Don't lose hope. 
1Chronicles22:14 I've tried very hard to provide for the Lord's temple. I've provided 3,750 tons of gold and 37,500 tons of silver. I've provided more bronze and iron than anyone can weigh. I've also given plenty of wood and stone. You can add to it." 
1Chronicles22:15 You have a lot of workers. You have people who can cut stones and people who can lay the stones. You have people who can work with wood. You also have people who are skilled in every other kind of work. 
1Chronicles22:16 Some of them can work with gold and silver. Others can work with bronze and iron. There are more workers than anyone can count. So begin the work. May the Lord be with you. 
1Chronicles22:17 Then David ordered all of Israel's leaders to help his son Solomon. 
1Chronicles22:18 He said to them, ""The Lord your God is with you. He's given you peace and rest on every side. He's handed the people who are living in the land over to me. The land has been brought under the control of the Lord and his people." 
1Chronicles22:19 So look to the Lord your God with all your heart and soul. Start building the temple of the Lord God. Then bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord into it. Also bring in the sacred articles that belong to God. The temple will be built for the Name of the Lord. 
1Chronicles23:1 David had become very old. So he made his son Solomon king over Israel. 
1Chronicles23:2 He gathered together all of the leaders of Israel. He also gathered the priests and the Levites together. 
1Chronicles23:3 The Levites who were 30 years old or more were counted. The total number of men was 38,000." 
1Chronicles23:4 David said, ""From them, 24,000 will direct the work of the Lord's temple. And 6,000 will be officials and judges." 
1Chronicles23:5 Another 4,000 will guard the gates. And 4,000 will praise the Lord with the instruments of music I've provided for that purpose.""" 
1Chronicles23:6 David separated the Levites into groups. He did it based on the sons of Levi. The sons were Gershon, Kohath and Merari." 
1Chronicles23:7 Ladan and Shimei belonged to the family of Gershon. 
1Chronicles23:8 The sons of Ladan were Jehiel, Zetham and Joel. Jehiel was the oldest son. The total number of sons was three." 
1Chronicles23:8 The sons of Ladan were Jehiel, Zetham and Joel. Jehiel was the oldest son. The total number of sons was three." 
1Chronicles23:9 The sons of Shimei were Shelomoth, Haziel and Haran. The total number of sons was three. They were the leaders of the families of Ladan." 
1Chronicles23:10 The sons of Shimei were Jahath, Ziza, Jeush and Beriah. The total number of the sons of Shimei was four." 
1Chronicles23:11 Jahath was the first son. Ziza was the second son. But Jeush and Beriah didn't have many sons. So they were counted as one family. They had only one task. 
1Chronicles23:12 The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. The total number of sons was four." 
1Chronicles23:13 Aaron and Moses belonged to Amram's family line. Aaron and his family line were set apart forever as the Lord's priests. They had the duty of setting the most holy things apart to the Lord. They offered sacrifices to the Lord. They served him. They gave blessings in his name forever. 
1Chronicles23:14 The sons of Moses, the man of God, were counted as part of the tribe of Levi." 
1Chronicles23:15 The sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer. 
1Chronicles23:16 Shubael was the oldest son in the family line of Gershom. 
1Chronicles23:17 Rehabiah was the oldest son in the family line of Eliezer. Eliezer didn't have any other sons. But Rehabiah had a great many sons. 
1Chronicles23:18 Shelomith was the oldest son of Izhar. 
1Chronicles23:19 Jeriah was the first son of Hebron. Amariah was his second son. Jahaziel was the third. Jekameam was the fourth. 
1Chronicles23:20 Micah was the first son of Uzziel. Isshiah was his second son. 
1Chronicles23:20 Micah was the first son of Uzziel. Isshiah was his second son. 
1Chronicles23:21 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli were Eleazar and Kish. 
1Chronicles23:22 Eleazar died without having any sons. All he had was daughters. They got married to their cousins. The cousins were the sons of Kish. 
1Chronicles23:23 The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. The total number of sons was three." 
1Chronicles23:24 Those were the family lines of Levi. They were recorded under the names of the family leaders. Each worker who was 20 years old or more was counted. They served in the Lord's temple. 
1Chronicles23:25 David had said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He has given peace and rest to his people. He has come to Jerusalem to live there forever." 
1Chronicles23:26 So the Levites don't need to carry the holy tent anymore. They don't need to carry any of its articles anymore. Those were the articles that were used to serve there. 
1Chronicles23:27 The Levites who were 20 years old or more were counted. That was in keeping with David's final directions. 
1Chronicles23:28 The Levites had the duty of helping the members of Aaron's family line. They helped them serve in the Lord's temple. They were in charge of the courtyards and the side rooms. They made all of the sacred things pure and clean. They also had other duties at the house of God. 
1Chronicles23:29 They were in charge of setting the holy bread out on the table. They prepared the flour for the grain offerings. They made the wafers without using any yeast. They did the baking and the mixing. They measured the amount and size of everything. 
1Chronicles23:30 They stood every morning to thank and praise the Lord. They did the same thing every evening. 
1Chronicles23:31 They also did it every time burnt offerings were brought to the Lord. Those offerings were brought every Sabbath day. They were also brought at every New Moon Feast and during the appointed yearly feasts. The Levites served in front of the Lord at regular times. The proper number of Levites was always used when they served. They served in the way the law required of them. 
1Chronicles23:32 So the Levites carried out their duties for the Tent of Meeting and for the Holy Room. They worked under their relatives who were in the family line of Aaron. They helped them serve at the Lord's temple. 
1Chronicles24:1 Here are the groups of priests the sons of Aaron were separated into. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father did. They didn't have any sons. So Eleazar and Ithamar served as the priests. 
1Chronicles24:3 With the help of Zadok and Ahimelech, David separated the priests into groups. Each group served in its appointed order and time. Zadok belonged to the family line of Eleazar. Ahimelech belonged to the family line of Ithamar." 
1Chronicles24:4 More leaders were found among Eleazar's family line than among Ithamar's. So the priests were separated into their groups based on that fact. There were 16 family leaders from Eleazar's line. There were eight family leaders from Ithamar's line. 
1Chronicles24:5 The priests were separated into their groups by using lots. That was the fair way to do it. The priests were officials of the temple and officials of God. They came from the family lines of Eleazar and Ithamar. 
1Chronicles24:6 Shemaiah was a Levite. He was the son of Nethanel. He was the writer who recorded the names of the priests. He wrote them down in front of the king and the officials. The officials included the priest Zadok and Ahimelech. Ahimelech was the son of Abiathar. They also included the leaders of the families of the priests and the Levites. One family was chosen by lot from Eleazar. Then one was chosen from Ithamar. 
1Chronicles24:7 The 1st lot that was drawn out was for Jehoiarib. The 2nd was for Jedaiah. 
1Chronicles24:8 The 3rd was for Harim. The 4th was for Seorim. 
1Chronicles24:9 The 5th was for Malkijah. The 6th was for Mijamin. 
1Chronicles24:10 The 7th was for Hakkoz. The 8th was for Abijah. 
1Chronicles24:11 The 9th was for Jeshua. The 10th was for Shecaniah. 
1Chronicles24:12 The 11th was for Eliashib. The 12th was for Jakim. 
1Chronicles24:13 The 13th was for Huppah. The 14th was for Jeshebeab. 
1Chronicles24:14 The 15th was for Bilgah. The 16th was for Immer. 
1Chronicles24:15 The 17th was for Hezir. The 18th was for Happizzez. 
1Chronicles24:16 The 19th was for Pethahiah. The 20th was for Jehezkel. 
1Chronicles24:17 The 21st was for Jakin. The 22nd was for Gamul. 
1Chronicles24:18 The 23rd was for Delaiah. The 24th was for Maaziah. 
1Chronicles24:19 That was their appointed order for serving when they entered the Lord's temple. That order was based on the rules Aaron had given them long ago. Everything was done exactly as the Lord had commanded Aaron. The Lord is the God of Israel. 
1Chronicles24:20 Here are the other members of the family line of Levi. From the sons of Amram came Shubael. From the sons of Shubael came Jehdeiah. 
1Chronicles24:21 From the sons of Rehabiah came Isshiah. Isshiah was the oldest. 
1Chronicles24:22 From the people of Izhar came Shelomoth. From the sons of Shelomoth came Jahath. 
1Chronicles24:23 Jeriah was the first son of Hebron. Amariah was his second son. Jahaziel was the third. Jekameam was the fourth. 
1Chronicles24:24 The son of Uzziel was Micah. From the sons of Micah came Shamir. 
1Chronicles24:24 The son of Uzziel was Micah. From the sons of Micah came Shamir. 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah was Isshiah. From the sons of Isshiah came Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah was Isshiah. From the sons of Isshiah came Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:25 The brother of Micah was Isshiah. From the sons of Isshiah came Zechariah. 
1Chronicles24:26 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The son of Jaaziah was Beno. 
1Chronicles24:27 The sons of Merari from Jaaziah were Beno, Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri." 
1Chronicles24:28 From Mahli came Eleazar. Eleazar didn't have any sons. 
1Chronicles24:29 From Kish came Jerahmeel. Jerahmeel was the son of Kish. 
1Chronicles24:30 The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. Those were the Levites, family by family." 
1Chronicles24:31 They cast lots, just as their relatives, the sons of Aaron, had done. They did it in front of King David, Zadok and Ahimelech. They did it in front of the family leaders of the priests. They also did it in front of the family leaders of the Levites. The families of the oldest brother were treated in the same way as the families of the youngest." 
1Chronicles25:1 David and the commanders of the army set apart some of the sons of Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun. They set them apart to serve the Lord by prophesying while harps, lyres and cymbals were being played. Here is the list of the men who served in that way." 
1Chronicles25:2 From the sons of Asaph cameZaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were under the direction of Asaph. He prophesied under the king's direction." 
1Chronicles25:3 From the sons of Jeduthun cameGedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah and Mattithiah. The total number was six. They were under the direction of their father Jeduthun. He prophesied while playing the harp. He used it to thank and praise the Lord." 
1Chronicles25:4 From the sons of Heman cameBukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shubael, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir and Mahazioth." 
1Chronicles25:5 All of them were sons of the king's prophet Heman. They were given to Heman to bring him honor. That's what God had promised. God gave him 14 sons and three daughters. 
1Chronicles25:6 All of them were under the direction of their fathers. They played music for the Lord's temple. They served at the house of God by playing cymbals, lyres and harps. Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman were under the king's direction." 
1Chronicles25:7 All of them were trained and skilled in playing music for the Lord. Their total number was 288. That included their relatives. 
1Chronicles25:8 Young and old alike cast lots for their duties. That was true for students as well as teachers. 
1Chronicles25:9 The 1st lot that was drawn out was for Asaph. It was for Joseph 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. The 2nd lot was for Gedaliah 'ZZ'and his relatives and sons. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:10 The 3rd was for Zaccur 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:11 The 4th was for Izri 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:12 The 5th was for Nethaniah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:13 The 6th was for Bukkiah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:14 The 7th was for Jesarelah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:15 The 8th was for Jeshaiah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:16 The 9th was for Mattaniah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:17 The 10th was for Shimei 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:18 The 11th was for Azarel 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:19 The 12th was for Hashabiah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:20 The 13th was for Shubael 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:21 The 14th was for Mattithiah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:22 The 15th was for Jerimoth 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:23 The 16th was for Hananiah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:24 The 17th was for Joshbekashah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:25 The 18th was for Hanani 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:26 The 19th was for Mallothi 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:27 The 20th was for Eliathah 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:28 The 21st was for Hothir 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:29 The 22nd was for Giddalti 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:30 The 23rd was for Mahazioth 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles25:31 The 24th was for Romamti-Ezer 'ZZ'and his sons and relatives. The total number was 12. 
1Chronicles26:1 Here are the groups of men who guarded the gates. From the family of Korah came Meshelemiah, the son of Kore. Kore was one of the sons of Asaph." 
1Chronicles26:2 Meshelemiah had sons. Zechariah was his first son. Jediael was his second son. Zebadiah was the third. Jathniel was the fourth. 
1Chronicles26:2 Meshelemiah had sons. Zechariah was his first son. Jediael was his second son. Zebadiah was the third. Jathniel was the fourth. 
1Chronicles26:3 Elam was the fifth. Jehohanan was the sixth. And Eliehoenai was the seventh. 
1Chronicles26:4 Obed-Edom also had sons. Shemaiah was his first son. Jehozabad was his second son. Joah was the third. Sacar was the fourth. Nethanel was the fifth. 
1Chronicles26:5 Ammiel was the sixth. Issachar was the seventh. And Peullethai was the eighth. God had blessed Obed-Edom. 
1Chronicles26:6 His son Shemaiah also had sons. They were leaders in their family. That's because they were men of great ability. 
1Chronicles26:7 The sons of Shemaiah were Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad. Elzabad's brothers Elihu and Semakiah were also able men." 
1Chronicles26:8 All of them belonged to the family line of Obed-Edom. They and their sons and relatives were men of ability. They were strong enough to do their work. The total number of men in the family line of Obed-Edom was 62. 
1Chronicles26:9 Meshelemiah's sons and relatives were able men. Their total number was 18. 
1Chronicles26:10 Hosah belonged to the family line of Merari. Hosah's first son was Shimri. But Shimri wasn't the oldest son. His father had made him the first. 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah was Hosah's second son. Tabaliah was the third. Zechariah was the fourth. The total number of Hosah's sons and relatives was 13. 
1Chronicles26:11 Hilkiah was Hosah's second son. Tabaliah was the third. Zechariah was the fourth. The total number of Hosah's sons and relatives was 13. 
1Chronicles26:12 Those groups of men guarded the gates. They worked under their chief men. They served at the Lord's temple, just as their relatives had served." 
1Chronicles26:13 Lots were cast for each gate, family by family. Young and old alike were chosen." 
1Chronicles26:14 The lot that was drawn out for the East Gate was for Shelemiah. Then lots were cast for his son Zechariah. He gave wise advice. The lot that was drawn out for the North Gate was for him. 
1Chronicles26:14 The lot that was drawn out for the East Gate was for Shelemiah. Then lots were cast for his son Zechariah. He gave wise advice. The lot that was drawn out for the North Gate was for him. 
1Chronicles26:15 The lot for the South Gate was for Obed-Edom. The lot for the storeroom was for his sons. 
1Chronicles26:16 Lots were drawn out for the West Gate and the Shalleketh Gate on the upper road. Those lots were for Shuppim and Hosah. One guard stood next to another. 
1Chronicles26:17 There were six Levites a day on the east. There were four a day on the north. There were four a day on the south. And there were two at a time at the storeroom. 
1Chronicles26:18 Two Levite guards were at the courtyard to the west. And four were at the road. 
1Chronicles26:19 Those were the groups of the men who guarded the gates. They belonged to the family lines of Korah and Merari. 
1Chronicles26:20 The Levite relatives of the men who guarded the gates were in charge of the treasures in the house of God. They were also in charge of other treasures that had been set apart for God. 
1Chronicles26:21 Ladan was from the family line of Gershon. Some leaders of families belonged to Ladan's family line. One of them was Jehieli. 
1Chronicles26:22 The sons of Jehieli were Zetham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the treasures in the Lord's temple. 
1Chronicles26:22 The sons of Jehieli were Zetham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the treasures in the Lord's temple. 
1Chronicles26:23 Here are the officials who were from the family lines of Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel." 
1Chronicles26:24 Shubael was from the family line of Moses' son Gershom. Shubael was the officer in charge of the treasures. 
1Chronicles26:25 His relatives through Eliezer included his son Rehabiah. Jeshaiah was Rehabiah's son. Joram was Jeshaiah's son. Zicri was Joram's son. And Shelomith was Zicri's son. 
1Chronicles26:26 Shelomith and his relatives were in charge of all of the treasures that had been set apart for God. King David had set those treasures apart. Some family leaders had also set them apart. They were the commanders of thousands of men and commanders of hundreds. The treasures had also been set apart by other army commanders. 
1Chronicles26:27 Some of the goods that had been taken in battle were set apart to repair the Lord's temple. 
1Chronicles26:28 The prophet Samuel had set apart some things for God. Saul, the son of Kish, had set apart other things. So had Abner, the son of Ner. And so had Joab, the son of Zeruiah. All of those things and all of the others that had been set apart were taken care of by Shelomith and his relatives." 
1Chronicles26:29 From the family line of Izhar came Kenaniah and his sons. They were given duties that were away from the temple. They were officials and judges over Israel. 
1Chronicles26:30 From the family line of Hebron came Hashabiah and his relatives. They were able men. The total number was 1,700. It was their duty to serve the king in Israel west of the Jordan River. It was also their duty to do all of the Lord's work there." 
1Chronicles26:31 Jeriah was the chief of the family line of Hebron. That's based on their family history. In the 40th year of David's rule, a search was made in the records. That's how men of ability were found in the family line of Hebron at Jazer in Gilead." 
1Chronicles26:32 Jeriah had 2,700 relatives. They were able men. They were family leaders. King David had put them in charge of the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. They were in charge of matters having to do with God and the king." 
1Chronicles27:1 Here is the list of the Israelites who served in the king's army. They included leaders of families. They included commanders of thousands of men and commanders of hundreds. They also included other officers. All of them served the king in everything concerning the army companies that were on duty month by month all through the year. The total number of men in each company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:2 Jashobeam was in charge of the first company for the first month. He was the son of Zabdiel. The total number of men in Jashobeam's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:3 He belonged to the family line of Perez. He was chief of all of the army officers for the first month. 
1Chronicles27:4 Dodai was in charge of the second company for the second month. He belonged to the family line of Ahoah. Mikloth was the leader of Dodai's company. The total number of men in Dodai's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:5 The third army commander for the third month was the priest Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada. Benaiah was the chief. The total number of men in Benaiah's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:6 That same Benaiah was a mighty man among the Thirty. In fact, he was leader over the Thirty. His son Ammizabad was in charge of his company." 
1Chronicles27:7 The fourth commander for the fourth month was Joab's brother Asahel. Asahel's son Zebadiah was the next commander after him. The total number of men in Asahel's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:8 The fifth commander for the fifth month was Shamhuth. He was an Izrahite. The total number of men in Shamhuth's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:9 The sixth commander for the sixth month was Ira. He was the son of Ikkesh from Tekoa. The total number of men in Ira's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:10 The seventh commander for the seventh month was Helez. He was a Pelonite from Ephraim. The total number of men in Helez's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:11 The eighth commander for the eighth month was Sibbecai. He was a Hushathite from Zerah. The total number of men in Sibbecai's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:12 The ninth commander for the ninth month was Abiezer. He was from Anathoth in Benjamin. The total number of men in Abiezer's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:13 The tenth commander for the tenth month was Maharai. He was a Netophathite from Zerah. The total number of men in Maharai's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:14 The 11th commander for the 11th month was Benaiah. He was from Pirathon in Ephraim. The total number of men in Benaiah's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:15 The 12th commander for the 12th month was Heldai. He was a Netophathite from the family line of Othniel. The total number of men in Heldai's company was 24,000." 
1Chronicles27:16 Here are the officers over the tribes of Israel. Over the tribe of Reuben was Eliezer, the son of Zicri. Over Simeon was Shephatiah, the son of Maacah." 
1Chronicles27:17 Over Levi was Hashabiah, the son of Kemuel. Over Aaron was Zadok." 
1Chronicles27:18 Over Judah was Elihu. He was David's brother. Over Issachar was Omri, the son of Michael." 
1Chronicles27:19 Over Zebulun was Ishmaiah, the son of Obadiah. Over Naphtali was Jerimoth, the son of Azriel." 
1Chronicles27:19 Over Zebulun was Ishmaiah, the son of Obadiah. Over Naphtali was Jerimoth, the son of Azriel." 
1Chronicles27:20 Over Ephraim was Hoshea, the son of Azaziah. Over half of the tribe of Manasseh was Joel, the son of Pedaiah." 
1Chronicles27:20 Over Ephraim was Hoshea, the son of Azaziah. Over half of the tribe of Manasseh was Joel, the son of Pedaiah." 
1Chronicles27:21 Over the half of the tribe of Manasseh in Gilead was Iddo, the son of Zechariah. Over Benjamin was Jaasiel, the son of Abner." 
1Chronicles27:21 Over the half of the tribe of Manasseh in Gilead was Iddo, the son of Zechariah. Over Benjamin was Jaasiel, the son of Abner." 
1Chronicles27:22 Over Dan was Azarel, the son of Jeroham. Those were the officers over the tribes of Israel." 
1Chronicles27:23 David didn't count the men who were 20 years old or less. That's because the Lord had promised to make the people of Israel as many as the stars in the sky. 
1Chronicles27:24 Joab, the son of Zeruiah, began to count the men. But he didn't finish. The Lord was angry with Israel because David had begun to count the men. So the number wasn't written down in the official records of King David." 
1Chronicles27:25 Azmaveth was in charge of the royal storerooms. He was the son of Adiel. Jonathan was in charge of the storerooms in the fields, towns, villages and lookout towers. He was the son of Uzziah." 
1Chronicles27:26 Ezri was in charge of the workers who farmed the land. He was the son of Kelub. 
1Chronicles27:27 Shimei was in charge of the vineyards. He was from Ramah. Zabdi was in charge of the grapes from the vineyards. He was also in charge of storing the wine. He was a Shiphmite. 
1Chronicles27:28 Baal-Hanan was in charge of the olive trees and sycamore-fig trees in the western hills. He was from Geder. Joash was in charge of storing the olive oil. 
1Chronicles27:29 Shitrai was in charge of the herds that ate grass in Sharon. He was from Sharon. Shaphat was in charge of the herds in the valleys. He was the son of Adlai. 
1Chronicles27:30 Obil was in charge of the camels. He was from the family line of Ishmael. Jehdeiah was in charge of the donkeys. He was from Meronoth. 
1Chronicles27:31 Jaziz was in charge of the flocks. He was a Hagrite. All of those men were the officials in charge of King David's property. 
1Chronicles27:32 Jonathan was David's uncle. He gave good advice. He was a man of understanding. He was also a secretary. Jehiel took care of the king's sons. He was the son of Hacmoni. 
1Chronicles27:33 Ahithophel was the king's adviser. Hushai was the king's friend. He was an Arkite. 
1Chronicles27:34 Jehoiada and Abiathar became the next advisers after Ahithophel. Jehoiada was the son of Benaiah. Joab was the commander of the royal army. 
1Chronicles28:1 David asked all of the officials of Israel to come together at Jerusalem. He sent for the officers who were over the tribes. He sent for the commanders of the companies who served the king. He sent for the commanders of thousands of men and commanders of hundreds. He sent for the officials who were in charge of all of the royal property and livestock. They belonged to the king and his sons. He sent for the palace officials and the mighty men. He also sent for all of the brave fighting men. 
1Chronicles28:2 King David stood up. He said, ""All of you, listen to me. With all my heart I wanted to build a house for the Lord. I wanted it to be a place of peace and rest for the ark of the covenant of the Lord. The ark is the stool for our God's feet. I made plans to build the Lord's house." 
1Chronicles28:3 But God said to me, 'You are not the one who will build a house for my Name. That is because you are a fighting man. You have spilled people's blood.'" 
1Chronicles28:4 But the Lord chose me. He is the God of Israel. He chose me from my whole family to be king over Israel forever. He chose Judah to lead the tribes. From the families of Judah he chose my family. From my father's sons he chose me. He was pleased to make me king over the whole nation of Israel. 
1Chronicles28:5 The Lord has given me many sons. From all of them he has chosen my son Solomon. He wants Solomon to sit on the throne of the Lord's kingdom. He wants him to rule over Israel. 
1Chronicles28:6 He said to me, 'Your son Solomon is the one who will build my house and my courtyards. I have chosen him to be my son. And I will be his father." 
1Chronicles28:7 I will make his kingdom secure. It will last forever. That will happen if he does not turn away from my commands and laws. He must continue to obey them, just as he is doing now.'" 
1Chronicles28:8 So I'm giving you a command in the sight of all of the people of Israel. The Lord's community is watching. And our God is listening. I command you to be careful to follow all of the commands of the Lord your God. Then you will own this good land. You will pass it on to your children after you as their share forever. 
1Chronicles28:9 My son Solomon, always remember the God of your father. Serve him with all your heart. Do it with a mind that wants to obey him. The Lord looks deep down inside every heart. He understands the real reasons for everything you think. If you look to him, you will find him. But if you desert him, he will turn his back on you forever." 
1Chronicles28:10 Think about it. The Lord has chosen you to build a temple as a holy place where he can live. So be strong. Get to work. 
1Chronicles28:11 Then David gave his son Solomon the plans for the porch of the temple. He gave him the plans for its buildings and its storerooms. He gave him the plans for its upper parts and its inside rooms. He gave him the plans for the place where sin is paid for and forgiven. 
1Chronicles28:12 He gave him the plans for everything the Spirit of the Lord had put in his mind. There were plans for the courtyards of the Lord's temple. There were plans for all of the rooms that were around it. There were plans for the places where the treasure of God's temple would be kept. There were plans for the places where the things that were set apart for God would be kept. 
1Chronicles28:13 David told Solomon how to separate the priests and Levites into groups. He gave him directions for all of the work they should do when they served in the Lord's temple. He also showed him how all of the articles should be used at the temple. 
1Chronicles28:14 Different articles were used for different purposes. David told Solomon how much gold should be used for each gold article. He also told him how much silver should be used for each silver article. 
1Chronicles28:15 He told him how much gold should be used to make each gold lampstand and its lamps. He told him how much silver should be used to make each silver lampstand and its lamps. The amount depended on how each lampstand would be used. 
1Chronicles28:16 David told Solomon how much gold should be used to make each table for holy bread. He told him how much silver should be used to make the silver tables. 
1Chronicles28:17 He told him how much pure gold should be used to make the forks, sprinkling bowls and pitchers. He told him how much gold should be used to make each gold dish. He told him how much silver should be used to make each silver dish." 
1Chronicles28:18 And he told him how much pure gold should be used to make the altar for burning incense. David also gave Solomon the plan for the chariot of the gold cherubim. They spread their wings over the ark of the covenant of the Lord. 
1Chronicles28:19 David said, ""I have written everything down. The Lord's powerful hand helped me. He helped me understand every part of the plan.""" 
1Chronicles28:20 David also said to his son Solomon, ""Be strong and brave. Get to work. Don't be afraid. Don't lose hope. The Lord God is my God. He is with you. He won't fail you. He won't desert you until all of the work for serving in the Lord's temple is finished." 
1Chronicles28:21 The groups of the priests and Levites are ready to do all of the work on God's temple. Every worker who is willing and skilled can help you do all of the work. The officials and all of the people will obey every command you give them. 
1Chronicles29:1 Then King David spoke to the whole community. He said, ""God has chosen my son Solomon. But Solomon is young. He's never done anything like this before. The task is huge. This grand and wonderful temple won't be built for human beings. It will be built for the Lord God." 
1Chronicles29:2 With all of my riches I've done everything I could for the temple of my God. I've provided gold for the gold work and silver for the silver work. I've provided bronze for the bronze work and iron for the iron work. I've given wood for the things that will be made out of wood. I've given onyx and turquoise for the settings. I've given stones of different colors and all kinds of fine stone and marble. I've provided everything in huge amounts. 
1Chronicles29:3 With all my heart I want the temple of my God to be built. So I'm giving my personal treasures of gold and silver for it. I'm adding them to everything else I've provided for the holy temple. 
1Chronicles29:4 I'm giving 110 tons of gold and 260 tons of pure silver. Cover the walls of the buildings with it. 
1Chronicles29:5 Use it for the gold work and the silver work. Use it for everything the skilled workers will do. How many of you are willing to set yourselves apart to the Lord today? 
1Chronicles29:6 Many people were willing to give. They included the leaders of families and the officers of the tribes of Israel. They included the commanders of thousands of men and commanders of hundreds. They also included the officials who were in charge of the king's work. 
1Chronicles29:7 All of them gave to the work on God's temple. They gave more than 190 tons of gold and 375 tons of silver. They also gave 675 tons of bronze and 3,750 tons of iron." 
1Chronicles29:8 Anyone who had valuable jewels added them to the treasure for the Lord's temple. Jehiel was in charge of the temple treasure. He was from the family line of Gershon. 
1Chronicles29:9 The people were happy when they saw what their leaders had been willing to give. The leaders had given freely. With their whole heart they had given everything to the Lord. King David was filled with joy. 
1Chronicles29:10 David praised the Lord in front of the whole community. He said, ""Lord, we give you praise. You are the God of our father Israel. We give you praise for ever and ever." 
1Chronicles29:11 Lord, you are great and powerful. Glory, majesty and beauty belong to you. Everything in heaven and on earth belongs to you. Lord, the kingdom belongs to you. You are honored as the One who rules over all." 
1Chronicles29:12 Wealth and honor come from you. You are the ruler of all things. In your hands are strength and power. You can give honor and strength to everyone. 
1Chronicles29:13 Our God, we give you thanks. We praise your glorious name." 
1Chronicles29:14 But who am I? And who are my people? Without your help we wouldn't be able to give this much. Everything comes from you. We've given back to you only what comes from you. 
1Chronicles29:15 We are outsiders and strangers in your sight. So were all of our people who lived long ago. Our days on this earth are like a shadow. We don't have any hope. 
1Chronicles29:16 Lord our God, we've given more than enough. We've provided it to build you a temple where you will put your holy Name. But all of it comes from you. All of it belongs to you." 
1Chronicles29:17 My God, I know that you put our hearts to the test. And you are pleased when we are honest. I've given all of these things just because I wanted to. When I did it, I was completely honest with you. And I've been happy to see that your people who are here have also been willing to give to you." 
1Chronicles29:18 Lord, you are the God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac and Israel. Keep this longing in the hearts of your people forever. Keep their hearts true to you." 
1Chronicles29:19 Help my son Solomon serve you with all his heart. Then he will keep your commands and rules. He will do what you require. He'll do everything to build the grand and wonderful temple I've provided for. 
1Chronicles29:20 Then David spoke to the whole community. He said, ""Praise the Lord your God."" So all of them praised the Lord. He's the God of their people who lived long ago. The whole community bowed low. They fell down flat with their faces toward the ground. They did it in front of the Lord and the king." 
1Chronicles29:21 The next day they offered sacrifices to the Lord. They brought burnt offerings to him. They sacrificed 1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams and 1,000 male lambs. They also brought the required drink offerings. And they offered many other sacrifices for the whole community of Israel." 
1Chronicles29:22 They ate and drank with great joy that day. They did it in the sight of the Lord. Then they announced a second time that Solomon was king. He was the son of David. They anointed Solomon to be ruler in the sight of the Lord. They also anointed Zadok to be priest. 
1Chronicles29:23 So Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord. He ruled as king in place of his father David. Things went well with him. All of the people of Israel obeyed him. 
1Chronicles29:24 All of the officers and mighty men promised to be completely faithful to King Solomon. So did all of King David's sons. 
1Chronicles29:25 The Lord greatly honored Solomon in the sight of all of the people. He gave him royal majesty. Solomon was given more glory than any king over Israel had ever had. 
1Chronicles29:26 David was king over the whole nation of Israel. He was the son of Jesse. 
1Chronicles29:27 He ruled over Israel for 40 years. He ruled for seven years in Hebron and for 33 years in Jerusalem. 
1Chronicles29:28 He died when he was very old. He had enjoyed a long life. He had enjoyed wealth and honor. His son Solomon became the next king after him. 
1Chronicles29:29 The events of King David's rule from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the prophets Samuel, Nathan and Gad." 
1Chronicles29:30 The records tell all about David's rule and power. They tell about what happened concerning him and Israel and the kingdoms of all of the other lands. 
2Chronicles1:1 Solomon was the son of David. Solomon made his position secure over his kingdom. The Lord his God was with him. He made Solomon very great. 
2Chronicles1:2 Solomon spoke to the whole community of Israel. He spoke to the commanders of thousands of men and commanders of hundreds. He spoke to the judges and all of the leaders in Israel. He spoke to the leaders of Israel's families. 
2Chronicles1:3 Solomon and the whole community went to the high place at Gibeon. That's because God's Tent of Meeting was there. The Lord's servant Moses had made the tent in the desert. 
2Chronicles1:4 David had brought the ark of God up from Kiriath Jearim. He had brought it to the place he had prepared for it. He had set up a tent for it in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles1:5 But the bronze altar that Bezalel had made was in Gibeon. Bezalel was the son of Uri. Uri was the son of Hur. The altar was in front of the Lord's holy tent. So Solomon and the whole community asked the Lord for advice there. 
2Chronicles1:6 Solomon went up to the bronze altar in front of the Lord at the Tent of Meeting. Solomon sacrificed 1,000 burnt offerings on the altar." 
2Chronicles1:7 That night God appeared to Solomon. He said to him, ""Ask for anything you want me to give you.""" 
2Chronicles1:8 Solomon answered God, ""You were very kind to my father David. Now you have made me king in his place." 
2Chronicles1:9 Lord God, let the promise you gave to my father David come true. You have made me king. My people are like the dust of the earth. They can't be counted." 
2Chronicles1:10 Give me wisdom and knowledge. Then I'll be able to lead these people. Without your help, who would be able to rule this great nation of yours?""" 
2Chronicles1:11 God said to Solomon, ""I am glad that those are the things you really want. You have not asked for wealth, riches or honor. You have not even asked to have your enemies killed. You have not asked to live for a long time. Instead, you have asked for wisdom and knowledge. You want to be able to rule my people wisely. I have made you king over them." 
2Chronicles1:12 So wisdom and knowledge will be given to you. I will also give you wealth, riches and honor. You will have more than any king before you ever had. And no king after you will have as much.""" 
2Chronicles1:13 Then Solomon left the high place at Gibeon. He went from the Tent of Meeting there to Jerusalem. And he ruled over Israel. 
2Chronicles1:14 Solomon had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horses. He kept some of them in the chariot cities. He kept others with him in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles1:15 The king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stones. He made cedar wood as common there as sycamore-fig trees in the western hills. 
2Chronicles1:16 Solomon got horses from Egypt and Kue. The king's buyers purchased them from Kue. 
2Chronicles1:17 They could get a chariot from Egypt for 15 pounds of silver. They could get a horse for less than four pounds of silver. They sold horses and chariots to all of the Hittite and Aramean kings. 
2Chronicles2:1 Solomon gave orders to build a temple. That's where the Lord would put his Name. Solomon also gave orders to build a royal palace for himself. 
2Chronicles2:2 He chose 70,000 men to carry things. He chose 80,000 to cut stones in the hills. He put 3,600 men in charge of them." 
2Chronicles2:3 Solomon sent a message to Hiram. Hiram was king of Tyre. The message said, ""Send me cedar logs, just as you did for my father David. You sent him cedar to build a palace to live in." 
2Chronicles2:4 Now I'm about to build a temple. The Name of the Lord my God will be there. I'll set the temple apart for him. Sweet-smelling incense will be burned in front of him there. The holy bread will be set out at regular times. Burnt offerings will be sacrificed there every morning and evening. They will be sacrificed every Sabbath day. They will be sacrificed at every New Moon Feast. And they will be sacrificed at every yearly appointed feast of the Lord our God. That's a law for Israel that will last for all time to come. 
2Chronicles2:5 The temple I'm going to build will be beautiful. That's because our God is greater than all other gods. 
2Chronicles2:6 So who is able to build a temple for him? After all, the heavens can't hold him. In fact, not even the highest heavens can hold him. So who am I to build a temple for him? It will only be a place to burn sacrifices to him." 
2Chronicles2:7 Send me someone who is skilled at working with gold, silver, bronze and iron. He must also be able to work with purple, blue and bright red yarn. He must be skilled in the art of carving. Send him to work in Judah and Jerusalem with my skilled workers. My father David provided them to help me." 
2Chronicles2:8 Also send me cedar, pine and algum logs from Lebanon. I know that your men are skilled in cutting wood there. My men will work with yours." 
2Chronicles2:9 They'll provide me with plenty of lumber. That's because the temple I'm building must be large and beautiful. 
2Chronicles2:10 I'll pay your servants. They will cut the wood. I'll pay them 125,000 bushels of wheat that has been ground up. I'll pay them 125,000 bushels of barley. I'll also pay them 115,000 gallons of wine and 115,000 gallons of olive oil.""" 
2Chronicles2:11 King Hiram of Tyre replied to Solomon. He wrote a letter to him. It said, ""The Lord loves his people. That's why he has made you their king.""" 
2Chronicles2:12 Hiram continued, ""I praise the Lord. He is the God of Israel. He made heaven and earth. He has given King David a wise son. You have good sense. You understand what is right. You will build a temple for the Lord. You will also build a palace for yourself." 
2Chronicles2:13 I'm sending Huram-Abi to you. He is very skillful. 
2Chronicles2:14 His mother was from Dan. His father was from Tyre. He is trained to work with gold, silver, bronze and iron. He knows how to work with stone and wood. He can also work with purple, blue and bright red yarn and fine linen. He's skilled in all kinds of carving. He can follow any pattern you give him. He'll work with your skilled workers. He'll also work with those of your father David. David was my master." 
2Chronicles2:15 Now please send us what you promised. Send us the wheat, barley, olive oil and wine." 
2Chronicles2:16 And we'll cut all of the logs from Lebanon you need. We'll make rafts out of them. We'll float them by sea down to Joppa. Then you can take them up to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles2:17 Solomon counted all of the outsiders who were living in Israel. He did it after his father David had counted them. There were 153,600 of them." 
2Chronicles2:18 He chose 70,000 to carry things. He chose 80,000 to cut stones in the hills. He put 3,600 men in charge of the people to keep them working." 
2Chronicles3:1 Then Solomon began to build the temple of the Lord. He built it on Mount Moriah in Jerusalem. That's where the Lord had appeared to Solomon's father David. He had appeared at the threshing floor of Araunah. Araunah was from Jebus. David had provided the threshing floor. 
2Chronicles3:2 Solomon began building the temple on the second day of the second month. It was in the fourth year of his rule. 
2Chronicles3:3 Solomon laid the foundation for God's temple. It was 90 feet long and 30 feet wide. Solomon's men followed the standard measure that was used at that time. 
2Chronicles3:4 The porch in front of the temple was 30 feet across and 30 feet high. Solomon covered the inside of the temple with pure gold. 
2Chronicles3:5 He covered the inside of the main hall with pine boards. Then he covered the boards with fine gold. He decorated the hall with palm tree patterns and chain patterns. 
2Chronicles3:6 He decorated the temple with valuable jewels. The gold he used came from Parvaim. 
2Chronicles3:7 He covered the ceiling beams, doorframes, walls and doors of the temple with gold. He carved cherubim on the walls." 
2Chronicles3:8 He built the Most Holy Room. It was as long as the temple was wide. It was 30 feet long and 30 feet wide. He covered the inside of the Most Holy Room with 23 tons of fine gold. 
2Chronicles3:9 He also covered the upper parts with gold. The gold on the nails weighed 20 ounces. 
2Chronicles3:10 For the Most Holy Room, Solomon made a pair of carved cherubim. He covered them with gold." 
2Chronicles3:11 The total length of the cherubim's wings from tip to tip was 30 feet. One wing of the first cherub was seven and a half feet long. Its tip touched the temple wall. The other wing was also seven and a half feet long. Its tip touched the wing tip of the other cherub. 
2Chronicles3:12 In the same way one wing of the second cherub was seven and a half feet long. Its tip touched the other temple wall. The other wing was also seven and a half feet long. Its tip touched the wing tip of the first cherub. 
2Chronicles3:13 So the total length of the wings of the two cherubim was 30 feet from tip to tip. The cherubim stood facing the main hall. 
2Chronicles3:14 Solomon made the curtain out of blue, purple and bright red yarn and fine linen. A skilled worker sewed cherubim into its pattern." 
2Chronicles3:15 In front of the temple, Solomon made two pillars. Each pillar was 26 feet tall. Each had a decorated top that was seven and a half feet high." 
2Chronicles3:16 Solomon made chains that were linked together. He put them on top of the pillars. He also made 100 pomegranates. He fastened them to the chains. 
2Chronicles3:17 Solomon set the pillars up in front of the temple. One was on the south. The other was on the north. He named the one on the south Jakin. The one on the north he named Boaz. 
2Chronicles4:1 Solomon made a bronze altar that was 30 feet long, 30 feet wide and 15 feet high." 
2Chronicles4:2 He made a huge metal bowl for washing. Its shape was round. It measured 15 feet from rim to rim. It was seven and a half feet high. And it was 45 feet around. 
2Chronicles4:3 Below the rim there was a circle of bull figures around the bowl. In every 18 inches around the bowl there were ten bulls. The bulls were arranged in two rows. They were made as part of the bowl itself. 
2Chronicles4:4 The bowl stood on 12 bulls. Three of them faced north. Three faced west. Three faced south. And three faced east. The bowl rested on top of them. Their rear ends were toward the center. 
2Chronicles4:5 The bowl was three inches thick. Its rim was like the rim of a cup. The rim was shaped like the bloom of a lily. The bowl held 17,500 gallons of water." 
2Chronicles4:6 Solomon made ten smaller bowls for washing. He placed five of them on the south side of the huge bowl. He placed the other five on the north side. The things that were used for the burnt offerings were rinsed in the smaller bowls. But the priests used the huge bowl for washing. 
2Chronicles4:7 Solomon made ten gold lampstands. He followed the pattern the Lord had given him. He placed the lampstands in the temple. He put five of them on the south side. He put the other five on the north side. 
2Chronicles4:8 He made ten tables. He placed them in the temple. He put five of them on the south side. He put the other five on the north side. He also made 100 gold sprinkling bowls. 
2Chronicles4:9 He made the courtyard of the priests. He also made the large courtyard. He made doors for it. He covered the doors with bronze. 
2Chronicles4:10 He placed the huge bowl on the south side of the courtyard. He put it at the southeast corner. 
2Chronicles4:11 He also made the pots, shovels and sprinkling bowls. So Huram finished the work he had started for King Solomon. Here's what he made for God's temple." 
2Chronicles4:12 He made the two pillars. He made the two tops for the pillars. The tops were shaped like bowls. He made the two sets of chains that were linked together. They decorated the two bowl-shaped tops of the pillars. 
2Chronicles4:13 He made the 400 pomegranates for the two sets of chains. There were two rows of pomegranates for each chain. They decorated the bowl-shaped tops of the pillars. 
2Chronicles4:14 He made the stands and their bowls. 
2Chronicles4:15 He made the huge bowl. He made the 12 bulls that were under it. 
2Chronicles4:16 He made the pots, shovels and meat forks. He also made all of the articles that were connected with them. Huram-Abi made all of those objects for King Solomon for the Lord's temple. He made them out of bronze. Then he shined them up." 
2Chronicles4:17 The king had them made in clay molds. It was done on the flatlands of the Jordan River between Succoth and Zarethan. 
2Chronicles4:18 Solomon made huge numbers of those articles. There were too many of them to weigh. No one even tried to weigh the bronze they were made out of. 
2Chronicles4:19 Solomon also made all of the articles that were in God's temple. He made the golden altar. He made the tables for the holy bread. 
2Chronicles4:20 He made the pure gold lampstands and their lamps. The lamps burned in front of the Most Holy Room, just as the law required." 
2Chronicles4:21 He made the gold flowers. He made the gold lamps and tongs. They were made out of solid gold. 
2Chronicles4:22 He made the wick cutters, sprinkling bowls, dishes, and shallow cups for burning incense. All of them were made out of pure gold. He made the gold doors of the temple. They were the inner doors to the Most Holy Room and the doors of the main hall." 
2Chronicles5:1 Solomon finished all of the work for the Lord's temple. Then he brought in the things his father David had set apart for the Lord. They included the silver and gold and all of the articles for God's temple. Solomon placed them with the other treasures that were there. 
2Chronicles5:2 Then Solomon sent for the elders of Israel. He told them to come to Jerusalem. They included all of the leaders of the tribes. They also included the chiefs of the families of Israel. Solomon wanted them to bring up the ark of the Lord's covenant from Zion. Zion was the City of David. 
2Chronicles5:3 All of the men of Israel came together to where the king was. It was at the time of the Feast of Booths. The feast was held in the seventh month. 
2Chronicles5:4 All of the elders of Israel arrived. Then the Levites picked up the ark and carried it. 
2Chronicles5:5 They brought up the ark. They also brought up the Tent of Meeting and all of the sacred articles that were in the tent. The priests, who were Levites, carried everything up." 
2Chronicles5:6 The entire community of Israel had gathered around King Solomon. All of them were in front of the ark. They sacrificed huge numbers of sheep and cattle. There were so many that they couldn't be recorded. In fact, they couldn't even be counted." 
2Chronicles5:7 The priests brought the ark of the Lord's covenant to its place in the Most Holy Room of the temple. They put it under the wings of the cherubim. 
2Chronicles5:8 The cherubim's wings were spread out over the place where the ark was. They covered the ark. They also covered the poles that were used to carry it. 
2Chronicles5:9 The poles reached out from the ark. They were so long that their ends could be seen from in front of the Most Holy Room. But they couldn't be seen from outside the Holy Room. They are still there to this very day. 
2Chronicles5:10 There wasn't anything in the ark except the two tablets. Moses had placed them in it at Mount Horeb. That's where the Lord had made a covenant with the Israelites. He made it after they came out of Egypt. 
2Chronicles5:11 The priests left the Holy Room. All of the priests who were there had set themselves apart to the Lord. It didn't matter what group they were in. 
2Chronicles5:12 All of the Levites who played music stood near the east side of the altar. They included Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun and their sons and relatives. They were dressed in fine linen. They were playing cymbals, harps and lyres. They were joined by 120 priests who were blowing trumpets." 
2Chronicles5:13 The trumpet players and singers made music together as if they were only one voice. They praised the Lord. They gave thanks to him. Some of them played their trumpets, cymbals and other instruments. The others raised their voices to praise the Lord. They sang, ""He is good. His faithful love continues forever."" Then a cloud filled the temple of the Lord." 
2Chronicles5:14 The priests couldn't do their work because of it. The glory of the Lord filled God's temple. 
2Chronicles6:1 Then Solomon said, ""Lord, you have said you would live in a dark cloud." 
2Chronicles6:2 I've built a beautiful temple for you. You can live in it forever. 
2Chronicles6:3 The whole community of Israel was standing there. The king turned around and gave them his blessing. 
2Chronicles6:4 Then he said, ""I praise the Lord. He is the God of Israel. With his mouth he made a promise to my father David. With his powerful hands he made it come true. He said," 
2Chronicles6:5 'I brought my people out of Egypt. Ever since I did that, I have not chosen a city in any tribe of Israel where a temple could be built for my Name. I have not chosen anyone to be the leader over my people Israel." 
2Chronicles6:6 But now I have chosen Jerusalem. I will put my Name there. And I have chosen David to rule over my people Israel.' 
2Chronicles6:7 With all his heart my father David wanted to build a temple. He wanted to do it so the Name of the Lord could be there. The Lord is the God of Israel. 
2Chronicles6:8 But the Lord spoke to my father David. He said, 'With all your heart you wanted to build a temple for my Name. It is good that you wanted to do that." 
2Chronicles6:9 But you will not build the temple. Instead, your son will build the temple for my Name. He is your own flesh and blood.'" 
2Chronicles6:10 The Lord has kept the promise he made. I've become the next king after my father David. Now I'm sitting on the throne of Israel. That's exactly what the Lord promised would happen. I've built the temple for the Name of the Lord. He is the God of Israel. 
2Chronicles6:11 I've placed the ark there. The tablets of the Lord's covenant are inside it. He made that covenant with the people of Israel. 
2Chronicles6:12 Then Solomon stood in front of the Lord's altar. He stood in front of the whole community of Israel. He spread out his hands to pray. 
2Chronicles6:13 He had made a bronze stage. It was seven and a half feet long and seven and a half feet wide. It was four and a half feet high. He had placed it in the center of the outer courtyard. He stood on the stage. Then he got down on his knees in front of the whole community of Israel. He spread out his hands toward heaven. 
2Chronicles6:14 He said, ""Lord, you are the God of Israel. There is no God like you in heaven or on earth. You keep the covenant you made with us. You show us your love. You do that when we follow you with all our hearts." 
2Chronicles6:15 You have kept your promise to my father David. He was your servant. With your mouth you made a promise. With your powerful hand you have made it come true. And today we can see it. 
2Chronicles6:16 Lord, you are the God of Israel. Keep the promises you made to my father David. Do it for him. He was your servant. You said to him, 'You will always have a son to sit on the throne of Israel in my sight. That will be true only if your sons are careful in everything they do. They must live the way my law tells them to. That is the way you have lived.'" 
2Chronicles6:17 Lord, you are the God of Israel. So let your promise to your servant David come true." 
2Chronicles6:18 But will you really live on earth with human beings? After all, the heavens can't hold you. In fact, even the highest heavens can't hold you. So this temple I've built certainly can't hold you!" 
2Chronicles6:19 But please pay attention to my prayer. Lord my God, show me your favor as I make my appeal to you. Listen to my cry for help. Hear the prayer I'm praying to you." 
2Chronicles6:20 Let your eyes look toward this temple day and night. You said you would put your Name here. Listen to the prayer I'm praying toward this place. 
2Chronicles6:21 Hear me when I ask you to show us your favor. Listen to your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Listen to us from heaven. It's the place where you live. When you hear us, forgive us." 
2Chronicles6:22 Suppose a man does something wrong to his neighbor. And he is required to take an oath and make a promise. He must come and do it in front of your altar in this temple. 
2Chronicles6:23 When he does, listen to him from heaven. Take action. Judge between the man and his neighbor. Pay back the one who is guilty. Do to him what he has done to the other person. Tell everyone that the person who hasn't done anything wrong is free of blame. That will prove he isn't guilty." 
2Chronicles6:24 Suppose your people Israel have lost the battle against their enemies. And suppose they've sinned against you. But they turn back to you and praise your name. They pray to you in this temple. And they ask you to show them your favor. 
2Chronicles6:25 Then listen to them from heaven. Forgive the sin of your people Israel. Bring them back to the land you gave to them and their people who lived long ago. 
2Chronicles6:26 Suppose your people have sinned against you. And because of that, the sky is closed up and there isn't any rain. But your people pray toward this place. They praise you by admitting they've sinned. And they turn away from their sin because you have made them suffer." 
2Chronicles6:27 Then listen to them from heaven. Forgive the sin of your people Israel. Teach them the right way to live. Send rain on the land you gave them as their share. 
2Chronicles6:28 Suppose there isn't enough food in the land. And a plague strikes the land. The hot winds completely dry up our crops. Or locusts or grasshoppers come and eat them up. Or enemies surround one of our cities and get ready to attack it. Or trouble or sickness comes. 
2Chronicles6:29 But suppose one of your people prays to you. He asks you to show him your favor. He is aware of how much he is suffering. And he spreads out his hands toward this temple to pray. 
2Chronicles6:30 Then listen to him from heaven. It's the place where you live. Forgive him. Deal with him in keeping with everything he does. You know his heart. In fact, you are the only one who knows every human heart." 
2Chronicles6:31 Your people will have respect for you. They will live the way you want them to. They'll live that way as long as they are in the land you gave our people long ago. 
2Chronicles6:32 Suppose a stranger who doesn't belong to your people Israel has come from a land far away. He has come because he's heard about your great name. He has heard that you reached out your mighty hand and powerful arm. So he comes and prays toward this temple. 
2Chronicles6:33 Then listen to him from heaven. It's the place where you live. Do what that stranger asks you to do. Then all of the nations on earth will know you. They will have respect for you. They'll respect you just as your own people Israel do. They'll know that your Name is in this house I've built. 
2Chronicles6:34 Suppose your people go to war against their enemies. It doesn't matter where you send them. And suppose they pray to you toward this city you have chosen. They pray toward the temple I've built for your Name. 
2Chronicles6:35 Then listen to them from heaven. Listen to their prayer. Listen to them when they ask you to show them your favor. Stand up for them. 
2Chronicles6:36 Suppose they sin against you. After all, there isn't anyone who doesn't sin. And suppose you get angry with them. You hand them over to their enemies. They take them as prisoners to another land. It doesn't matter whether it's near or far away." 
2Chronicles6:37 But suppose your people change their ways in the land where they are held as prisoners. They turn away from their sins. They beg you to help them in the land where they are prisoners. They say, 'We have sinned. We've done what is wrong. We've done what is evil.'" 
2Chronicles6:38 And they turn back to you with all their heart and soul. Suppose it happens in the land where they were taken as prisoners. There they pray toward the land you gave their people long ago. They pray toward the city you have chosen. And they pray toward the temple I've built for your Name. 
2Chronicles6:39 Then listen to them from heaven. It's the place where you live. Listen to their prayer. Listen to them when they ask you to show them your favor. Stand up for them. Your people have sinned against you. Please forgive them. 
2Chronicles6:40 My God, let your eyes see us. Let your ears pay attention to the prayers that are offered in this place." 
2Chronicles6:41 Lord God, rise up and come to your resting place. Come in together with the ark. It's the sign of your power. Lord God, may your priests put on salvation as if it were their clothes. May your faithful people be glad because you are so good." 
2Chronicles6:42 Lord God, don't turn your back on your anointed king. Remember the great love you promised to your servant David.""" 
2Chronicles7:1 Solomon finished praying. Then fire came down from heaven. It burned up the burnt offering and the sacrifices. The glory of the Lord filled the temple. 
2Chronicles7:2 The priests couldn't enter the temple of the Lord. His glory filled it. 
2Chronicles7:3 All of the people of Israel saw the fire coming down. They saw the glory of the Lord above the temple. So they got down on their knees in the courtyard with their faces toward the ground. They worshiped the Lord. They gave thanks to him. They said, ""He is good. His faithful love continues forever.""" 
2Chronicles7:4 Then the king and all of the people offered sacrifices to the Lord. 
2Chronicles7:5 King Solomon sacrificed 22,000 head of cattle and 120,000 sheep and goats. So the king and all of the people set the temple of God apart." 
2Chronicles7:6 The priests and Levites took their positions. The Levites played the Lord's musical instruments. King David had made them for praising the Lord. They were used when he gave thanks to the Lord. He said, ""His faithful love continues forever."" Across from where the Levites were, the priests blew their trumpets. All of the people of Israel were standing." 
2Chronicles7:7 Solomon set the middle area of the courtyard apart to the Lord. It was in front of the Lord's temple. There Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings. He also sacrificed the fat of the friendship offerings there. He did it there because the bronze altar he had made couldn't hold all of the burnt offerings, the grain offerings and the fat parts." 
2Chronicles7:8 At that time Solomon celebrated the Feast of Booths for seven days. The whole community of Israel was with him. It was a huge crowd. People came from as far away as Lebo Hamath and the Wadi of Egypt. 
2Chronicles7:9 On the eighth day they held a service. For seven days they had celebrated by setting the altar apart to honor God. The feast continued for seven more days. 
2Chronicles7:10 Then Solomon sent the people home. It was the 23rd day of the seventh month. The people were glad. Their hearts were full of joy. That's because the Lord had done good things for David and Solomon and his people Israel. 
2Chronicles7:11 Solomon finished the Lord's temple and the royal palace. He had done everything he had planned to do in the Lord's temple and his own palace. 
2Chronicles7:12 The Lord appeared to him at night. He said, ""I have heard your prayer. I have chosen this place for myself. It is a temple where sacrifices will be offered." 
2Chronicles7:13 Suppose I close up the sky and there isn't any rain. Suppose I command locusts to eat up the crops. And I send a plague among my people. 
2Chronicles7:14 But they make themselves low in my sight. They pray and look to me. And they turn from their evil ways. Then I will listen to them from heaven. I will forgive their sin. And I will heal their land. After all, they are my people." 
2Chronicles7:15 Now my eyes will see them. My ears will pay attention to the prayers they offer in this place. 
2Chronicles7:16 I have chosen this temple. I have set it apart for myself. My Name will be there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there. 
2Chronicles7:17 But you must walk with me, just as your father David did. Do everything I command you to do. Obey my rules and laws." 
2Chronicles7:18 Then I will set up your royal throne. I made a covenant with your father David to do that. I said to him, 'You will always have a son to rule over Israel.'" 
2Chronicles7:19 But suppose all of you turn away from me. You refuse to obey the rules and commands I have given you. And you go off to serve other gods and worship them. 
2Chronicles7:20 Then I will remove Israel from my land. It is the land I gave them. I will turn my back on this temple. I will do it even though I have set it apart for my Name to be there. I will make all of the nations hate it. They will laugh and joke about it. 
2Chronicles7:21 This temple is now so grand and beautiful. But the time is coming when all those who pass by it will be shocked. They will say, 'Why has the Lord done a thing like this to this land and temple?'" 
2Chronicles7:22 People will answer, 'Because they have deserted the Lord. He is the God of their people who lived long ago. He brought them out of Egypt. But they have been holding on to other gods. They've been worshiping them. They've been serving them. That's why he has brought all of this horrible trouble on them.' """ 
2Chronicles8:1 Solomon built the Lord's temple and his own palace. It took him 20 years to build them. After that," 
2Chronicles8:2 Solomon rebuilt the villages Hiram had given him. He settled Israelites in them. 
2Chronicles8:3 Then Solomon went to Hamath Zobah. He captured it. 
2Chronicles8:4 He also built up Tadmor in the desert. He built up all of the cities in Hamath where he could store things. 
2Chronicles8:5 He rebuilt Lower Beth Horon and Upper Beth Horon. He put up high walls around them. He made their city gates secure with heavy metal bars. 
2Chronicles8:6 He rebuilt Baalath and all of the cities where he could store things. He also rebuilt all of the cities for his chariots and horses. Solomon built anything he wanted to build in Jerusalem, Lebanon and all of the territory he ruled over." 
2Chronicles8:7 There were still many people left in the land who weren't Israelites. They included Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites." 
2Chronicles8:8 They were children of the people who had lived in the land before the Israelites came. The people of Israel hadn't destroyed them. Solomon had forced them to work very hard as his slaves. And they still work for Israel to this very day. 
2Chronicles8:9 But Solomon didn't force the men of Israel to work as his slaves. Instead, some were his fighting men. Others were commanders of his captains, chariots and chariot drivers." 
2Chronicles8:10 Still others were King Solomon's chief officials. There were 250 officials in charge of the other men. 
2Chronicles8:11 Solomon brought Pharaoh's daughter up from the City of David to the palace he had built for her. He said, ""My wife must not live in the palace of David, who was the king of Israel. It's one of the places the ark of the Lord has entered. That makes it holy.""" 
2Chronicles8:12 Solomon had built the Lord's altar. It stood in front of the temple porch. On that altar Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings to the Lord. 
2Chronicles8:13 Each day he sacrificed what the Law of Moses required. He sacrificed the required offerings every Sabbath day. He also sacrificed them at each New Moon Feast and during the three yearly feasts. Those three were the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks and the Feast of Booths." 
2Chronicles8:14 Solomon followed the orders his father David had given him. He appointed the groups of priests for their duties. He appointed the Levites to lead the people in praising the Lord. They also helped the priests do their required tasks each day. Solomon appointed the groups of men who guarded all of the gates. That's what David, the man of God, had ordered." 
2Chronicles8:15 King David's commands were followed completely. They applied to the priests and Levites. They also applied to the temple treasure. 
2Chronicles8:16 All of Solomon's work was carried out. It started the day the foundation of the Lord's temple was laid. It ended when the Lord's temple was finished. 
2Chronicles8:17 Solomon went to Ezion Geber and Elath on the coast of Edom. 
2Chronicles8:18 Hiram sent him ships that his own officers commanded. They were men who knew the sea. Together with Solomon's men they sailed to Ophir. They brought back 17 tons of gold. They gave it to King Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:1 The queen of Sheba heard about how famous Solomon was. So she came to Jerusalem to test him with hard questions. She arrived with a very large group of attendants. Her camels were carrying spices, huge amounts of gold, and valuable jewels. She came to Solomon and asked him about everything she wanted to know." 
2Chronicles9:2 He answered all of her questions. There wasn't anything that was too hard for him to explain to her. 
2Chronicles9:3 So the queen of Sheba saw how wise Solomon was. She saw the palace he had built. 
2Chronicles9:4 She saw the food that was on his table. She saw his officials sitting there. She saw the robes of the servants who waited on everyone. She saw the robes the wine tasters were wearing. And she saw the burnt offerings Solomon sacrificed at the Lord's temple. She could hardly believe everything she had seen. 
2Chronicles9:5 She said to the king, ""Back in my own country I heard a report about you. I heard about how much you had accomplished. I also heard about how wise you are. Everything I heard is true." 
2Chronicles9:6 But I didn't believe what people were saying. So I came to see for myself. And now I believe it! You are twice as wise as people say you are. The report I heard doesn't even begin to tell the whole story about you. 
2Chronicles9:7 How happy your men must be! How happy your officials must be! They always get to serve you and hear the wise things you say. 
2Chronicles9:8 May the Lord your God be praised. He must take great delight in you. He placed you on his throne as king. He put you there to rule for him. Your God loves Israel very much. He longs to take good care of them forever. That's why he has made you king over them. He knows that you will do what is fair and right. 
2Chronicles9:9 She gave the king four and a half tons of gold. She also gave him huge amounts of spices and valuable jewels. There had never been as many spices as the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon. 
2Chronicles9:10 The servants of Hiram and those of Solomon brought gold from Ophir. They also brought algumwood and valuable jewels. 
2Chronicles9:11 The king used the algumwood to make steps for the Lord's temple and the royal palace. He also used it to make harps and lyres for those who played the music. No one had ever seen that much algumwood in Judah before. 
2Chronicles9:12 King Solomon gave the queen of Sheba everything she wanted and asked for. In fact, he gave her more than she had brought to him. Then she left. She returned to her own country with her attendants." 
2Chronicles9:13 Each year Solomon received 25 tons of gold. 
2Chronicles9:14 That didn't include the money that was brought in by business and trade. All of the kings of Arabia also brought gold and silver to Solomon. So did the governors of Israel. 
2Chronicles9:15 King Solomon made 200 large shields out of hammered gold. Each one weighed seven and a half pounds. 
2Chronicles9:16 He also made 300 small shields out of hammered gold. Each one weighed almost four pounds. The king put all of the shields in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. 
2Chronicles9:17 Then he made a large throne. It was decorated with ivory. It was covered with pure gold. 
2Chronicles9:18 The throne had six steps. A gold stool for the king's feet was connected to it. The throne had armrests on both sides of the seat. A statue of a lion stood on each side of the throne. 
2Chronicles9:19 Twelve lions stood on the six steps. There was one at each end of each step. Nothing like that throne had ever been made for any other kingdom. 
2Chronicles9:20 All of King Solomon's cups were made out of gold. All of the articles that were used in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon were made out of pure gold. Nothing was made out of silver. When Solomon was king, silver wasn't considered to be worth very much." 
2Chronicles9:21 He had many ships that carried goods to be traded. The crews of those ships were made up of Hiram's men. Once every three years the ships returned. They brought gold, silver, ivory, apes and baboons." 
2Chronicles9:22 King Solomon was richer than all of the other kings on earth. He was also wiser than they were. 
2Chronicles9:23 All of these kings wanted to meet Solomon in person. They wanted to see for themselves how wise God had made him. 
2Chronicles9:24 Year after year, everyone who came to him brought a gift. They brought articles that were made out of silver and gold. They brought robes, weapons and spices. They also brought horses and mules." 
2Chronicles9:25 Solomon had 4,000 spaces where he kept his horses and chariots. He had 12,000 horses. He kept some of his horses and chariots in the chariot cities. He kept the others with him in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles9:26 Solomon ruled over all of the kings from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines. He ruled all the way to the border of Egypt. 
2Chronicles9:27 The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones. He made cedar wood as common there as sycamore-fig trees in the western hills. 
2Chronicles9:28 Solomon got horses from Egypt. He also got them from many other countries. 
2Chronicles9:29 The other events of Solomon's rule from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the prophet Nathan. They are written in the prophecy of Ahijah. He was from Shiloh. They are also written in the records of the visions of the prophet Iddo about Jeroboam. Jeroboam was the son of Nebat. 
2Chronicles9:30 Solomon ruled in Jerusalem over the whole nation of Israel for 40 years. 
2Chronicles9:31 Then he joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the city of his father David. Solomon's son Rehoboam became the next king after him 
2Chronicles10:1 Rehoboam went to Shechem. All of the people of Israel had gone there to make him king. 
2Chronicles10:2 Jeroboam heard about it. He was the son of Nebat. Jeroboam was in Egypt at that time. He had gone there for safety. He wanted to get away from King Solomon. But now he returned from Egypt. 
2Chronicles10:3 So the people sent for Jeroboam. He and all of the people went to Rehoboam. They said to him," 
2Chronicles10:4 Your father put a heavy load on our shoulders. But now make our hard work easier. Make the heavy load on us lighter. Then we'll serve you. 
2Chronicles10:5 Rehoboam answered, ""Come back to me in three days."" So the people went away." 
2Chronicles10:6 Then King Rehoboam asked the elders for advice. They had served his father Solomon while he was still living. Rehoboam asked them, ""What advice can you give me? How should I answer these people?""" 
2Chronicles10:7 They replied, ""Be kind to them. Please them. Give them what they are asking for. Then they'll always serve you.""" 
2Chronicles10:8 But Rehoboam didn't accept the advice the elders gave him. He asked for advice from the young men who had grown up with him and were now serving him. 
2Chronicles10:9 He asked them, ""What's your advice? How should I answer these people? They said to me, 'Make the load your father put on our shoulders lighter.' """ 
2Chronicles10:10 The young men who had grown up with him gave their answer. They replied, ""The people have said to you, 'Your father put a heavy load on our shoulders. Make it lighter.' Tell them, 'My little finger is stronger than my father's legs." 
2Chronicles10:11 My father put a heavy load on your shoulders. But I'll make it even heavier. My father beat you with whips. But I'll beat you with bigger whips.' 
2Chronicles10:12 Three days later Jeroboam and all of the people returned to Rehoboam. That's because the king had said, ""Come back to me in three days.""" 
2Chronicles10:13 The king answered them in a mean way. He didn't accept the advice of the elders. 
2Chronicles10:14 Instead, he followed the advice of the young men. He said, ""My father put a heavy load on your shoulders. But I'll make it even heavier. My father beat you with whips. But I'll beat you with bigger whips.""" 
2Chronicles10:15 So the king didn't listen to the people. That's because God had planned it that way. What the Lord had said through Ahijah came true. Ahijah had spoken the Lord's message to Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. Ahijah was from Shiloh." 
2Chronicles10:16 All of the people of Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them. So they answered the king. They said, ""We don't have any share in David's royal family. We don't have any share in Jesse's son. People of Israel, let's go back to our homes. David's royal family, take care of your own kingdom!"" So all of the people of Israel went home." 
2Chronicles10:17 But Rehoboam still ruled over the Israelites who were living in the towns of Judah. 
2Chronicles10:18 Adoniram was in charge of those who were forced to work hard for King Rehoboam. The king sent him out among the Israelites. But they killed him by throwing stones at him. Rehoboam was able to get away in his chariot. He escaped to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles10:19 Israel has refused to follow the royal family of David to this very day. 
2Chronicles11:1 Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem. He brought together 180,000 fighting men from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. He had decided to make war against Israel. He wanted his fighting men to get the kingdom of Israel back for him." 
2Chronicles11:2 But a message came to Shemaiah from the Lord. He was a man of God. The Lord said to him," 
2Chronicles11:3 Speak to Solomon's son Rehoboam, the king of Judah. Speak to all of the people of Israel in Judah and Benjamin. Tell them," 
2Chronicles11:4 'The Lord says, ""Do not go up to fight against your relatives. I want every one of you to go back home. Things have happened exactly the way I planned them."" ' "" So the fighting men obeyed the Lord's message. They turned back. They didn't march out against Jeroboam." 
2Chronicles11:5 Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem. He made Judah more secure by building up their towns. 
2Chronicles11:6 He built up Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa," 
2Chronicles11:7 Beth Zur, Soco and Adullam." 
2Chronicles11:8 He also built up Gath, Mareshah, Ziph," 
2Chronicles11:9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah," 
2Chronicles11:10 Zorah, Aijalon and Hebron. All of them were cities in Judah and Benjamin that had high walls around them." 
2Chronicles11:11 Rehoboam made those cities even more secure. He put commanders in them. He gave them plenty of food, olive oil and wine." 
2Chronicles11:12 He put shields and spears in all of those cities. He made them very strong. So he ruled over Judah and Benjamin. 
2Chronicles11:13 The priests and Levites were on Rehoboam's side. They came from their territories all over Israel. 
2Chronicles11:14 The Levites even left their grasslands and other property behind. They came to Judah and Jerusalem. That's because Jeroboam and his sons had refused to accept them as priests of the Lord. 
2Chronicles11:15 Jeroboam appointed his own priests to serve at the high places. He had made statues of gods that looked like goats and calves. His priests served those gods. 
2Chronicles11:16 Some people from every tribe in Israel followed the Levites to Jerusalem. With all their hearts they wanted to worship the Lord. He is the God of Israel. They came to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices to him. He was the God of their people of long ago. 
2Chronicles11:17 All those who came to Jerusalem made the kingdom of Judah strong. They helped Solomon's son Rehoboam for three years. During that time they lived the way David and Solomon had lived. 
2Chronicles11:18 Rehoboam got married to Mahalath. She was the daughter of David's son Jerimoth. Her mother was Abihail. Abihail was the daughter of Jesse's son Eliab. 
2Chronicles11:19 Mahalath had sons by Rehoboam. Their names were Jeush, Shemariah and Zaham." 
2Chronicles11:20 Then Rehoboam married Maacah. She was the daughter of Absalom. She had sons by Rehoboam. Their names were Abijah, Attai, Ziza and Shelomith." 
2Chronicles11:21 Rehoboam loved Absalom's daughter Maacah. In fact, he loved her more than any of his other wives and concubines. He had a total of 18 wives and 60 concubines. And he had a total of 28 sons and 60 daughters." 
2Chronicles11:22 Rehoboam appointed Maacah's son Abijah to be the chief prince among his brothers. He did it to make him king. 
2Chronicles11:23 He acted wisely. He scattered some of his sons through all of the territories of Judah and Benjamin. He put them in all of the cities that had high walls around them. He gave them plenty of food and everything else they needed. He also gave them many wives. 
2Chronicles12:1 Rehoboam had made his position as king secure. He had become very strong. Then he turned away from the law of the Lord. So did all of the people of Judah. 
2Chronicles12:2 They hadn't been faithful to the Lord. So Shishak attacked Jerusalem. It was in the fifth year that Rehoboam was king. Shishak was king of Egypt. 
2Chronicles12:3 He came with 1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen. Troops of Libyans, Sukkites and Cushites came with him from Egypt. There were so many of them they couldn't be counted." 
2Chronicles12:4 Shishak captured the cities of Judah that had high walls around them. He came all the way to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles12:5 Then the prophet Shemaiah came to Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah. They had gathered together in Jerusalem. They were afraid of Shishak. Shemaiah said to them, ""The Lord says, 'You have left me. So now I am leaving you to Shishak.' """ 
2Chronicles12:6 The king and the leaders of Israel made themselves low in the Lord's sight. They said, ""The Lord does what is right and fair.""" 
2Chronicles12:7 The Lord saw they had made themselves low. So he gave a message to Shemaiah. It said, ""They have made themselves low in my sight. So I will not destroy them. Instead, I will soon save them. I will not pour out my burning anger on Jerusalem through Shishak." 
2Chronicles12:8 But its people will be brought under his control. Then they will learn the difference between serving me and serving the kings of other lands. 
2Chronicles12:9 Shishak, the king of Egypt, attacked Jerusalem. He carried away the treasures of the Lord's temple. He also carried the treasures of the royal palace away. He took everything. That included the gold shields Solomon had made." 
2Chronicles12:10 So King Rehoboam made bronze shields to take their place. He gave them to the commanders of the guards who were on duty at the entrance to the royal palace. 
2Chronicles12:11 Every time the king went to the Lord's temple, the guards went with him. They carried the shields. Later, they took them back to the room where they were kept." 
2Chronicles12:12 Rehoboam had made himself low in the Lord's sight. So the Lord turned his anger away from him. Rehoboam wasn't totally destroyed. In fact, some good things happened in Judah." 
2Chronicles12:13 King Rehoboam had made his position secure in Jerusalem. He continued as king. He was 41 years old when he became king. He ruled for 17 years in Jerusalem. It was the city the Lord had chosen out of all of the cities in the tribes of Israel. He wanted to put his Name there. The name of Rehoboam's mother was Naamah from Ammon. 
2Chronicles12:14 Rehoboam did what was evil. That's because he hadn't worshiped the Lord with all his heart. 
2Chronicles12:15 The events of Rehoboam's rule from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the prophets Shemaiah and Iddo. The records deal with family histories. Rehoboam and Jeroboam were always at war with each other. 
2Chronicles12:16 Rehoboam joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the City of David. His son Abijah became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles13:1 Abijah became king of Judah. It was in the 18th year of Jeroboam's rule over Israel. 
2Chronicles13:2 Abijah ruled in Jerusalem for three years. His mother's name was Maacah. She was a daughter of Uriel. Uriel was from Gibeah. There was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
2Chronicles13:3 Abijah went into battle with an army of 400,000 able fighting men. Jeroboam lined up his soldiers against them. He had 800,000 able troops." 
2Chronicles13:4 Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim. It's in the hill country of Ephraim. Abijah said, ""Jeroboam and all you men of Israel, listen to me!" 
2Chronicles13:5 The Lord is the God of Israel. Don't you know that he has placed David and his sons after him on Israel's throne forever? The Lord made a covenant of salt with David. The salt means the covenant will last for all time to come. 
2Chronicles13:6 Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, was an official of David's son Solomon. But he refused to obey his master." 
2Chronicles13:7 Some worthless and evil men gathered around him. They opposed Solomon's son Rehoboam. At that time Rehoboam was young. He couldn't make up his mind. He wasn't strong enough to stand up against those men. 
2Chronicles13:8 Now you plan to stand up against the kingdom of the Lord. His kingdom is in the hands of men in David's family line. It's true that you have a huge army. You have the golden calves that Jeroboam made to be your gods. 
2Chronicles13:9 But you drove out the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron. You also drove out the Levites. You appointed your own priests. That's what the people of other nations do. Anyone can come and set himself apart. All he has to do is sacrifice a young bull and seven rams. Then he becomes a priest of gods that aren't really gods at all!" 
2Chronicles13:10 But the Lord is our God. We haven't deserted him. The priests who serve the Lord belong to the family line of Aaron. The Levites help them. 
2Chronicles13:11 Every morning and evening the priests bring burnt offerings and sweet-smelling incense to the Lord. They set out the holy bread on the table. That table is 'clean.' They light the lamps on the gold lampstand every evening. We always do what the Lord our God requires in his law. But you have deserted him. 
2Chronicles13:12 God is with us. He's our leader. His priests will blow their trumpets. They will sound the battle cry against you. Men of Israel, don't fight against the Lord. He's the God of your people who lived long ago. You can't possibly succeed.""" 
2Chronicles13:13 Jeroboam had sent some troops behind Judah's battle lines. He told them to hide and wait there. He and his men stayed in front of Judah's lines. 
2Chronicles13:14 Judah turned and saw that they were being attacked from the front and from the back. Then they cried out to the Lord. The priests blew their trumpets. 
2Chronicles13:15 The men of Judah shouted the battle cry. When they did, God drove Jeroboam and all of Israel's men away from Abijah and Judah." 
2Chronicles13:16 The men of Israel ran away from them. God handed Israel over to Judah. 
2Chronicles13:17 Abijah and his men wounded and killed large numbers of them. In fact, 500,000 of Israel's able men lay dead or wounded." 
2Chronicles13:18 So at that time the men of Israel were brought under Judah's control. The men of Judah won the battle over them. That's because they trusted in the Lord. He's the God of their people. 
2Chronicles13:19 Abijah chased Jeroboam. He took from him the towns of Bethel, Jeshanah and Ephron. He also took the villages that were around them." 
2Chronicles13:20 Jeroboam didn't get his power back during the time of Abijah. In fact, the Lord struck him down. And he died." 
2Chronicles13:21 But Abijah grew stronger. He got married to 14 wives. He had 22 sons and 16 daughters. 
2Chronicles13:22 The other events of Abijah's rule are written down. The things he did and said are written in the notes of the prophet Iddo. 
2Chronicles14:1 Abijah joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the City of David. His son Asa became the next king after him. While Asa was king, the country had peace and rest for ten years." 
2Chronicles14:2 Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles14:3 He removed the altars where strange gods were worshiped. He took away the high places. He smashed the sacred stones. He cut down the poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. 
2Chronicles14:4 He commanded Judah to worship the Lord, the God of their people. He commanded them to obey the Lord's laws and commands." 
2Chronicles14:5 He removed the high places and incense altars from every town in Judah. The kingdom had peace and rest under him. 
2Chronicles14:6 He built up the cities of Judah that had high walls around them. The land was at peace. No one was at war with Asa during those years. That's because the Lord gave him peace and rest. 
2Chronicles14:7 Let's build up our towns,"" Asa said to the people of Judah. ""Let's put walls around them. Let's provide them with towers. Let's make them secure with gates that have heavy metal bars. The land still belongs to us. That's because we've trusted in the Lord our God. We trusted in him, and he has given us peace and rest on every side."" So they built. And things went well for them." 
2Chronicles14:8 Asa had an army of 300,000 men from Judah. They carried spears and large shields. There were 280,000 men from Benjamin. They were armed with bows and small shields. All of those men were brave soldiers." 
2Chronicles14:9 Zerah marched out against them. He was from Cush. He had a huge army. He also had 300 chariots. They came all the way to Mareshah. 
2Chronicles14:10 Asa went out to meet Zerah in battle. They took up their positions in the Valley of Zephathah. It's near Mareshah. 
2Chronicles14:11 Then Asa called out to the Lord his God. He said, ""Lord, there isn't anyone like you. You help the weak against the strong. Lord our God, help us. We trust in you. In your name we have come out to fight against this huge army. Lord, you are our God. Don't let mere men win the battle over you.""" 
2Chronicles14:12 The Lord struck down the men of Cush for Asa and Judah. The Cushites ran away. 
2Chronicles14:13 Asa and his army chased them all the way to Gerar. A large number of Cushites fell down wounded or dead. So they couldn't fight back. The Lord and his army crushed them. The men of Judah carried off a large amount of goods. 
2Chronicles14:14 They attacked all of the villages around Gerar. The Lord had made the people in those villages afraid of him. The men of Judah took everything from all of the villages. 
2Chronicles14:15 They also attacked the camps of those who took care of the herds. They carried off large numbers of sheep, goats and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles15:1 The Spirit of God came on Azariah. He was the son of Oded. 
2Chronicles15:2 Azariah went out to meet Asa. He said to him, ""Asa and all you people of Judah and Benjamin, listen to me. The Lord is with you when you are with him. If you really look for him, you will find him. But if you desert him, he will desert you." 
2Chronicles15:3 For a long time Israel didn't worship the true God. They didn't have a priest who taught them. So they didn't know God's law. 
2Chronicles15:4 But when they were in trouble, they turned to the Lord, the God of Israel. When they did, they found him." 
2Chronicles15:5 In those days it wasn't safe to travel around. The people who lived in all of the areas of the land were having a lot of trouble. 
2Chronicles15:6 One nation was crushing another. One city was crushing another. That's because God was causing them to suffer terribly. 
2Chronicles15:7 But be strong. Don't give up. God will reward you for your work. 
2Chronicles15:8 Asa heard that prophecy. He paid attention to the words of the prophet Azariah, the son of Oded. So Asa became bolder than ever. He removed the statues of gods from the whole land of Judah and Benjamin. He also removed them from the towns he had captured in the hills of Ephraim. He did it because he hated those gods. He repaired the altar of the Lord. It was in front of the porch of the Lord's temple." 
2Chronicles15:9 Then he gathered all of the people of Judah and Benjamin together. He also gathered together the people from Ephraim, Manasseh and Simeon who had settled among them. Large numbers of people had come over to him from Israel. They came because they saw that the Lord his God was with him." 
2Chronicles15:10 They gathered in Jerusalem. It was the third month of the 15th year of Asa's rule. 
2Chronicles15:11 At that time they sacrificed to the Lord 700 head of cattle and 7,000 sheep and goats. The animals were among the things they had taken after the battle." 
2Chronicles15:12 They made a covenant to look to the Lord, the God of their people. They looked to him with all their heart and soul." 
2Chronicles15:13 All those who wouldn't look to the Lord, the God of Israel, would be killed. It wouldn't matter how important they were. It wouldn't matter whether they were men or women." 
2Chronicles15:14 They took an oath and made a promise to the Lord. They praised him out loud. They shouted. They blew trumpets and horns. 
2Chronicles15:15 All of the people of Judah were happy about the promise they had made. They turned to God with all their heart. When they did, they found him. So the Lord gave them peace and rest on every side." 
2Chronicles15:16 King Asa also removed his grandmother Maacah from her position as queen mother. That's because she had made a pole that was used to worship the goddess Asherah. The Lord hated it. So Asa cut it down. He broke it up. He burned it in the Kidron Valley. 
2Chronicles15:17 Asa didn't remove the high places from Israel. But he committed his whole life completely to the Lord. 
2Chronicles15:18 He and his father had set apart silver, gold and other articles to the Lord. He brought them into God's temple." 
2Chronicles15:19 There weren't any more wars until the 35th year of Asa's rule. 
2Chronicles16:1 Baasha was king of Israel. He marched out against Judah. It was in the 36th year of Asa's rule over Judah. Baasha built up the walls of Ramah. He did it to keep people from leaving or entering the territory of Asa, the king of Judah." 
2Chronicles16:2 Asa took the silver and gold from among the treasures of the Lord's temple and his own palace. He sent it to Ben-Hadad. Ben-Hadad was king of Aram. He was ruling in Damascus. 
2Chronicles16:3 Let's make a peace treaty between us,"" Asa said. ""My father and your father had made a peace treaty between them. Now I'm sending you silver and gold. So break your treaty with Baasha, the king of Israel. Then he'll go back home.""" 
2Chronicles16:4 Ben-Hadad agreed with King Asa. He sent his army commanders against the towns of Israel. They attacked Ijon, Dan, Abel Maim and all of the cities in Naphtali where Baasha stored things." 
2Chronicles16:5 Baasha heard about it. So he stopped building up Ramah. He stopped working there. 
2Chronicles16:6 Then King Asa brought all of the men of Judah to Ramah. They carried away the stones and wood Baasha had been using. Asa used them to build up Geba and Mizpah. 
2Chronicles16:7 At that time the prophet Hanani came to Asa, the king of Judah. He said to him, ""You trusted the king of Aram. You didn't trust in the Lord your God. So the army of the king of Aram has escaped from you." 
2Chronicles16:8 The people of Cush and Libya had a strong army. They had large numbers of chariots and horsemen. But you trusted in the Lord. So he handed them over to you. 
2Chronicles16:9 The Lord looks out over the whole earth. He gives strength to those who commit their lives completely to him. You have done a foolish thing. From now on you will be at war. 
2Chronicles16:10 Asa was angry with the prophet because of what he had said. In fact, he was so angry he put him in prison. At the same time, Asa treated some of his own people very badly." 
2Chronicles16:11 The events of Asa's rule from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
2Chronicles16:12 In the 39th year of Asa's rule his feet began to hurt. The pain was terrible. But even though he was suffering, he didn't look to the Lord for help. All he did was go to the doctors." 
2Chronicles16:13 In the 41st year of Asa's rule he joined the members of his family who had already died. 
2Chronicles16:14 His body was buried in a tomb. He had cut it out for himself in the City of David. His body was laid on a wooden frame. It was covered with spices and different mixes of perfume. A huge fire was made in his honor. 
2Chronicles17:1 Jehoshaphat was the son of Asa. Jehoshaphat became the next king after him. He made his kingdom strong in case Israel would attack him. 
2Chronicles17:2 He placed troops in all of the cities of Judah that had high walls around them. He stationed some soldiers in Judah. He also put some in the towns of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured. 
2Chronicles17:3 The Lord was with Jehoshaphat. That's because in his early years he lived the way King David had lived. He didn't ask for advice from the gods that were named after Baal. 
2Chronicles17:4 Instead, he looked to the God of his father. He followed the Lord's commands instead of the practices of Israel." 
2Chronicles17:5 The Lord made the kingdom secure under Jehoshaphat's control. All of the people of Judah brought gifts to Jehoshaphat. So he had great wealth and honor. 
2Chronicles17:6 His heart was committed to living the way the Lord wanted him to. He removed the high places from Judah. He also removed the poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. 
2Chronicles17:7 In the third year of his rule, he sent his officials to teach in the towns of Judah. The officials were Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah." 
2Chronicles17:7 In the third year of his rule, he sent his officials to teach in the towns of Judah. The officials were Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah." 
2Chronicles17:7 In the third year of his rule, he sent his officials to teach in the towns of Judah. The officials were Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah." 
2Chronicles17:8 Some Levites were with them. Their names were Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah and Tob-Adonijah. The priests Elishama and Jehoram were also with them." 
2Chronicles17:9 They taught people all through Judah. They took the Scroll of the Law of the Lord with them. They went around to all of the towns of Judah. And they taught the people. 
2Chronicles17:10 All of the kingdoms of the lands around Judah became afraid of the Lord. So they didn't go to war against Jehoshaphat. 
2Chronicles17:11 Some Philistines brought to Jehoshaphat the gifts and silver he required of them. The Arabs brought him their flocks. They brought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 goats." 
2Chronicles17:12 Jehoshaphat became more and more powerful. He built forts in Judah. He also built cities in Judah where he could store things. 
2Chronicles17:13 He had large supplies in the towns of Judah. In Jerusalem he kept men who knew how to fight well. 
2Chronicles17:14 Here is a list of them, family by family. From Judah there were commanders of companies of 1,000. One of them was Adnah. He commanded 300,000 fighting men." 
2Chronicles17:15 Another was Jehohanan. He commanded 280,000." 
2Chronicles17:16 Another was Amasiah, the son of Zicri. Amasiah commanded 200,000. He had offered to serve the Lord." 
2Chronicles17:17 From Benjamin there were also commanders. One of them was Eliada. He was a brave soldier. He commanded 200,000 men. They were armed with bows and shields." 
2Chronicles17:18 Another was Jehozabad. He commanded 180,000 men. They were prepared for battle." 
2Chronicles17:19 Those were the men who served the king. He stationed some other men in the cities all through Judah. The cities had high walls around them. 
2Chronicles18:1 Jehoshaphat had great wealth and honor. He joined forces with Ahab by getting married to Ahab's daughter. 
2Chronicles18:2 Some years later he went down to visit Ahab in Samaria. Ahab killed a lot of sheep and cattle for him and the people who were with him. Ahab tried to get Jehoshaphat to attack Ramoth Gilead. 
2Chronicles18:3 Ahab was the king of Israel. He spoke to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. He asked, ""Will you go with me to fight against Ramoth Gilead?"" Jehoshaphat replied, ""Yes. I'll go with you. My men will also go with you. We'll join you in the war.""" 
2Chronicles18:4 He continued, ""First ask the Lord for advice.""" 
2Chronicles18:5 So the king of Israel brought 400 prophets together. He asked them, ""Should we go to war against Ramoth Gilead? Or should I stay here?"" ""Go,"" they answered. ""God will hand it over to you.""" 
2Chronicles18:6 But Jehoshaphat asked, ""Isn't there a prophet of the Lord here? If there is, ask him what we should do.""" 
2Chronicles18:7 The king of Israel answered Jehoshaphat. He said, ""There is still one other man we can go to. We can ask the Lord for advice through him. But I hate him. He never prophesies anything good about me. He only prophesies bad things. His name is Micaiah. He's the son of Imlah."" ""You shouldn't say bad things about him,"" Jehoshaphat replied." 
2Chronicles18:8 So the king of Israel called for one of his officials. He told him, ""Bring Micaiah, the son of Imlah, at once.""" 
2Chronicles18:9 The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were wearing their royal robes. They were sitting on their thrones at the threshing floor. It was near the entrance of the gate of Samaria. All of the prophets were prophesying in front of them." 
2Chronicles18:10 Zedekiah was the son of Kenaanah. Zedekiah had made horns out of iron. They looked like animal horns. He announced, ""The Lord says, 'With these horns you will drive back the men of Aram until they are destroyed.' """ 
2Chronicles18:11 All of the other prophets were prophesying the same thing. Attack Ramoth Gilead,"" they said. ""Win the battle over it. The Lord will hand it over to you.""" 
2Chronicles18:12 A messenger went to get Micaiah. He said to him, ""Look. The other prophets agree. All of them are saying the king will have success. So agree with them. Say the same thing they do.""" 
2Chronicles18:13 But Micaiah said, ""You can be sure that the Lord lives. And you can be just as sure that I can only tell the king what my God says.""" 
2Chronicles18:14 When Micaiah arrived, the king spoke to him. He asked, ""Should we go to war against Ramoth Gilead? Or should I stay here?"" ""Attack,"" he answered. ""You will win. The people of Ramoth Gilead will be handed over to you.""" 
2Chronicles18:15 The king said to him, ""I've made you promise to tell the truth many times before. So don't tell me anything but the truth in the name of the Lord.""" 
2Chronicles18:16 Then Micaiah answered, ""I saw all of the people of Israel scattered on the hills. They were like sheep that didn't have a shepherd. The Lord said, 'These people do not have a master. Let each of them go home in peace.' """ 
2Chronicles18:17 The king of Israel spoke to Jehoshaphat. He said, ""Didn't I tell you he never prophesies anything good about me? He only prophesies bad things.""" 
2Chronicles18:18 Micaiah continued, ""Listen to the Lord's message. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne. Some of the angels of heaven were standing at his right side. The others were standing at his left side." 
2Chronicles18:19 The Lord said, 'Who will try to get Ahab, the king of Israel, to attack Ramoth Gilead? I want him to die there.' ""One angel suggested one thing. Another suggested something else." 
2Chronicles18:20 Finally, a spirit came forward and stood in front of the Lord. The spirit said, 'I'll try to get Ahab to do it.' "" 'How?' the Lord asked." 
2Chronicles18:21 The spirit said, 'I'll go and put lies in the mouths of all of his prophets.' "" 'You will have success in getting Ahab to attack Ramoth Gilead,' said the Lord. 'Go and do it.'" 
2Chronicles18:22 So the Lord has put lies in the mouths of your prophets. He has said that great harm will come to you. 
2Chronicles18:23 Then Zedekiah, the son of Kenaanah, went up and slapped Micaiah in the face. ""So you think the spirit that was sent by the Lord went away from me to speak to you, do you?"" he asked. ""Which way did he go?""" 
2Chronicles18:24 Micaiah replied, ""You will find out on the day you go to hide in an inside room to save your life.""" 
2Chronicles18:25 Then the king of Israel gave an order. He said, ""Take Micaiah away. Send him back to Amon. Amon is the ruler of the city of Samaria. And send him back to Joash. Joash is a member of the royal court." 
2Chronicles18:26 Tell them, 'The king says, ""Put this fellow in prison. Don't give him anything but bread and water until I return safely."" ' """ 
2Chronicles18:27 Micaiah announced, ""Do you really think you will return safely? If you do, the Lord hasn't spoken through me."" He continued, ""All of you people, remember what I've said!""" 
2Chronicles18:28 So the king of Israel went up to Ramoth Gilead. Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, went there too." 
2Chronicles18:29 The king of Israel spoke to Jehoshaphat. He said, ""I'll go into battle wearing different clothes. Then people won't recognize me. But you wear your royal robes."" So the king of Israel put on different clothes. Then he went into battle." 
2Chronicles18:30 The king of Aram had given an order to his chariot commanders. He had said, ""Fight only against the king of Israel. Don't fight against anyone else.""" 
2Chronicles18:31 The chariot commanders saw Jehoshaphat. They thought, ""That's the king of Israel."" So they turned to attack him. But Jehoshaphat cried out. And the Lord helped him. God drew the commanders away from him." 
2Chronicles18:32 They saw he wasn't the king of Israel after all. So they stopped chasing him. 
2Chronicles18:33 But someone shot an arrow without taking aim. The arrow hit the king of Israel between the parts of his armor. The king told the chariot driver, ""Turn the chariot around. Get me out of this battle. I've been wounded.""" 
2Chronicles18:34 All day long the battle continued. The king of Israel kept himself standing up by leaning against the inside of his chariot. He kept his face toward the men of Aram until evening. At sunset he died. 
2Chronicles19:1 Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, returned safely to his palace in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles19:2 The prophet Jehu went out to meet him. He was the son of Hanani. Jehu said to the king, ""You shouldn't help evil people. You shouldn't love those who hate the Lord. The Lord is angry with you." 
2Chronicles19:3 But there's some good in you. You have gotten rid of all of the poles in the land that are used to worship the goddess Asherah. And you have worshiped God with all your heart. 
2Chronicles19:4 Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem. He went out again among the people. He went from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim. He turned the people back to the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles19:5 Jehoshaphat appointed judges in the land. He put them in all of the cities of Judah that had high walls around them. 
2Chronicles19:6 He told the judges, ""Think carefully about what you do. After all, you aren't judging for mere men. You are judging for the Lord. He's with you every time you make a decision." 
2Chronicles19:7 Have respect for the Lord. Judge carefully. He is always right. He treats everyone the same. He doesn't want his judges to take money from people who want special favors. 
2Chronicles19:8 In Jerusalem, Jehoshaphat chose some Levites and priests. He also chose some leaders of Israelite families. He appointed all of them to apply the law of the Lord fairly. He wanted them to decide cases. He wanted them to settle matters between people. All of those judges lived in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles19:9 Here are the orders Jehoshaphat gave them. He said, ""Have respect for the Lord. Serve him faithfully. Do it with all your heart." 
2Chronicles19:10 Cases will come to you from your fellow judges who live in the other cities. The cases might be about murder or other matters that the law, commands, directions and rules deal with. Warn the judges not to sin against the Lord. If you don't warn them, he will be angry with you and your fellow judges. Do what I say. Then you won't sin." 
2Chronicles19:11 The chief priest Amariah will be over you in any matter that concerns the Lord. Zebadiah is the leader of the tribe of Judah. He is the son of Ishmael. Zebadiah will be over you in any matter that concerns the king. The Levites will serve as your officials. Be brave. And may the Lord be with those of you who do well. 
2Chronicles20:1 After that, the Moabites, Ammonites and some Meunites went to war against Jehoshaphat." 
2Chronicles20:2 Some people came and told him, ""A huge army is coming from Edom to fight against you. They have come across the Dead Sea. They are already in Hazazon Tamar."" Hazazon Tamar is also called En Gedi." 
2Chronicles20:3 Jehoshaphat was alarmed. So he decided to ask the Lord for advice. He told all of the people of Judah to go without eating. 
2Chronicles20:4 The people came together to ask the Lord for help. In fact, they came from every town in Judah to pray to him." 
2Chronicles20:5 Then Jehoshaphat stood up among the people of Judah and Jerusalem. He was in front of the new courtyard at the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles20:6 He said, ""Lord, you are the God of our people. You are the God who is in heaven. You rule over all of the kingdoms of the nations. Your hands are strong and powerful. No one can fight against you and win." 
2Chronicles20:7 Our God, you drove out the people who lived in this land. You drove them out to make room for your people Israel. You gave this land forever to those who belong to the family line of your friend Abraham." 
2Chronicles20:8 They have lived in this land. They've built a temple here for your Name. They have said," 
2Chronicles20:9 'Suppose trouble comes on us. It doesn't matter whether it's a punishing sword, plague or hunger. We'll serve you. We'll stand in front of this temple where your Name is. We'll cry out to you when we're in trouble. Then you will hear us. You will save us.'" 
2Chronicles20:10 But here are men from Ammon, Moab and Mount Seir. You wouldn't allow Israel to march in and attack their territory when the Israelites came from Egypt. So Israel turned away from them. They didn't destroy them." 
2Chronicles20:11 See how they are paying us back. They are coming to drive us out. They want to take over the land you gave us as our share. 
2Chronicles20:12 Our God, won't you please judge them? We don't have the power to face this huge army that's attacking us. We don't know what to do. But we're looking to you to help us.""" 
2Chronicles20:13 All of the men of Judah stood there in front of the Lord. Their wives, children and little ones were with them." 
2Chronicles20:14 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Jahaziel. He was standing among the people of Israel. He was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah was the son of Benaiah. Benaiah was the son of Jeiel. Jeiel was the son of Mattaniah. Jahaziel was a Levite. He was from the family line of Asaph. 
2Chronicles20:14 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on Jahaziel. He was standing among the people of Israel. He was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah was the son of Benaiah. Benaiah was the son of Jeiel. Jeiel was the son of Mattaniah. Jahaziel was a Levite. He was from the family line of Asaph. 
2Chronicles20:15 Jahaziel said, ""King Jehoshaphat, listen! All you who live in Judah and Jerusalem, listen! The Lord says to you, 'Do not be afraid. Do not lose hope because of this huge army. The battle is not yours. It is mine." 
2Chronicles20:16  'Tomorrow march down against them. They will be climbing up by the Pass of Ziz. You will find them at the end of the valley in the Desert of Jeruel. 
2Chronicles20:17 You will not have to fight this battle. Take your positions. Stand firm. You will see how I will save you. Judah and Jerusalem, do not be afraid. Do not lose hope. Go out and face them tomorrow. I will be with you.' """ 
2Chronicles20:18 Jehoshaphat bowed down with his face toward the ground. All of the people of Judah and Jerusalem also bowed down. They worshiped the Lord. 
2Chronicles20:19 Then some Levites from the families of Kohath and Korah stood up. They praised the Lord, the God of Israel. They praised him with very loud voices." 
2Chronicles20:20 Early in the morning all of the people left for the Desert of Tekoa. As they started out, Jehoshaphat stood up. He said, ""Judah, listen to me! People of Jerusalem, listen to me! Have faith in the Lord your God. He'll take good care of you. Have faith in his prophets. Then you will have success.""" 
2Chronicles20:21 Jehoshaphat asked the people for advice. Then he appointed men to sing to the Lord. He wanted them to praise him because of his glory and holiness. They marched out in front of the army. They said, ""Give thanks to the Lord. His faithful love continues forever.""" 
2Chronicles20:22 They began to sing and praise him. Then the Lord hid some men and told them to wait. He wanted them to attack the people of Ammon, Moab and Mount Seir. They had gone into Judah and attacked it. But they lost the battle." 
2Chronicles20:23 The men of Ammon and Moab rose up against the men from Mount Seir. They destroyed them. They put an end to them. When they finished killing the men from Seir, they destroyed each other." 
2Chronicles20:24 The men of Judah came to the place that looks out over the desert. They turned to look down at the huge army. But all they saw was dead bodies lying there on the ground. No one had escaped. 
2Chronicles20:25 So Jehoshaphat and his men went down there to carry off anything of value. Among the dead bodies they found a lot of supplies, clothes and articles of value. There was more than they could take away. There was so much it took three days to collect all of it." 
2Chronicles20:26 On the fourth day they gathered together in the Valley of Beracah. There they praised the Lord. That's why it's called the Valley of Beracah to this very day. 
2Chronicles20:27 Then all of the men of Judah and Jerusalem returned to Jerusalem. They were filled with joy. Jehoshaphat led them. The Lord had made them happy because all of their enemies were dead. 
2Chronicles20:28 They entered Jerusalem and went to the Lord's temple. They were playing harps, lutes and trumpets." 
2Chronicles20:29 All of the kingdoms of the surrounding countries began to have respect for God. They had heard how the Lord had fought against Israel's enemies. 
2Chronicles20:30 The kingdom of Jehoshaphat was at peace. His God had given him peace and rest on every side. 
2Chronicles20:31 So Jehoshaphat ruled over Judah. He was 35 years old when he became Judah's king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 25 years. His mother's name was Azubah. She was the daughter of Shilhi. 
2Chronicles20:32 Jehoshaphat followed the ways of his father Asa. He didn't wander away from them. He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. 
2Chronicles20:33 But the high places weren't removed. The people still hadn't worshiped the God of Israel with all their hearts. 
2Chronicles20:34 The other events of Jehoshaphat's rule from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the official records of Jehu, the son of Hanani. They are written in the records of the kings of Israel." 
2Chronicles20:35 Jehoshaphat king of Judah and Ahaziah king of Israel agreed to be friends. Ahaziah was guilty of doing what was evil. 
2Chronicles20:36 Jehoshaphat agreed with him to build a lot of ships. They were built at Ezion Geber. They carried goods that were traded for other goods. 
2Chronicles20:37 Eliezer was the son of Dodavahu from Mareshah. Eliezer prophesied against Jehoshaphat. He said, ""You have joined forces with Ahaziah. So the Lord will destroy what you have made."" The ships were wrecked. They were never able to sail or trade goods." 
2Chronicles21:1 Jehoshaphat joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the family tomb in the City of David. His son Jehoram became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles21:2 Jehoram's brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat, were Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael and Shephatiah. All of them were sons of Jehoshaphat, the king of Israel." 
2Chronicles21:2 Jehoram's brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat, were Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael and Shephatiah. All of them were sons of Jehoshaphat, the king of Israel." 
2Chronicles21:3 Their father had given them many gifts. He had given them silver, gold and articles of value. He had also given them cities in Judah that had high walls around them. But he had made Jehoram king. That's because Jehoram was his oldest son." 
2Chronicles21:4 Jehoram made his position secure over his father's kingdom. Then he killed all of his brothers with his sword. He also killed some of the princes of Israel. 
2Chronicles21:5 Jehoram was 32 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. 
2Chronicles21:6 He followed the ways of the kings of Israel, just as the royal family of Ahab had done. In fact, he got married to a daughter of Ahab. Jehoram did what was evil in the sight of the Lord." 
2Chronicles21:7 But the Lord didn't want to destroy the royal family of David. That's because the Lord had made a covenant with him. He had promised to keep the lamp of David's kingdom burning brightly for him and his children after him forever. 
2Chronicles21:8 When Jehoram was king over Judah, Edom refused to remain under Judah's control. They set up their own king." 
2Chronicles21:9 So Jehoram went to Edom. He took his officers and all of his chariots with him. The men of Edom surrounded him and his chariot commanders. But he got up at night and fought his way out. 
2Chronicles21:10 To this very day Edom has refused to remain under Judah's control. At that same time, Libnah also refused to remain under the control of Judah. That's because Jehoram had deserted the Lord, the God of his people." 
2Chronicles21:11 He had also built high places on the hills of Judah. He had caused the people of Jerusalem to worship other gods. They weren't faithful to the Lord. Jehoram had led Judah down the wrong path. 
2Chronicles21:12 Jehoram received a letter from the prophet Elijah. It said, ""The Lord is the God of your father David. The Lord says, 'You have not followed the ways of your own father Jehoshaphat or of Asa, the king of Judah." 
2Chronicles21:13 Instead, you have followed the ways of the kings of Israel. You have led Judah and the people of Jerusalem to worship other gods, just as the royal family of Ahab did. Also, you have murdered your own brothers. They were members of your own family. They were better men than you are." 
2Chronicles21:14  'So now I am about to strike your people down with a heavy blow. I will strike down your sons, your wives and everything that belongs to you." 
2Chronicles21:15 And you yourself will be very sick for a long time. The sickness will finally cause your insides to come out.' 
2Chronicles21:16 The Lord stirred up the anger of the Philistines against Jehoram. He also stirred up the anger of the Arabs. They lived near the people of Cush. 
2Chronicles21:17 The Philistines and Arabs attacked Judah. They went in and carried off all of the goods they found in the king's palace. They also took his sons and wives. The only son he had left was Ahaziah. He was the youngest son. 
2Chronicles21:18 After all of that, the Lord made Jehoram very sick. He couldn't be healed." 
2Chronicles21:19 After he had been sick for two years, the sickness caused his insides to come out. He died in great pain. His people didn't make a fire in his honor, as they had done for the kings who ruled before him." 
2Chronicles21:20 Jehoram was 32 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. No one was sorry when he passed away. His body was buried in the City of David. But it wasn't placed in the tombs of the kings. 
2Chronicles22:1 The people of Jerusalem made Ahaziah king in place of Jehoram. Ahaziah was Jehoram's youngest son. Robbers had come with the Arabs into Jehoram's camp. The robbers had killed all of his older sons. So Ahaziah, the king of Judah, began to rule. He was the son of Jehoram." 
2Chronicles22:2 Ahaziah was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for one year. His mother's name was Athaliah. She was a granddaughter of Omri. 
2Chronicles22:3 Ahaziah also followed the ways of the royal family of Ahab. That's because Ahaziah's mother gave him bad advice. She told him to do what was wrong. 
2Chronicles22:4 So he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, just as the family of Ahab had done. After Ahaziah's father died, the members of Ahab's family became his advisers. That's what destroyed him." 
2Chronicles22:5 He also followed their advice when he joined forces with Joram, the king of Israel. They went to war against Hazael at Ramoth Gilead. Joram was the son of Ahab. Hazael was king of Aram. The soldiers of Aram wounded Joram." 
2Chronicles22:6 So he returned to Jezreel to give his wounds time to heal. His enemies had wounded him at Ramoth in his battle against Hazael, the king of Aram. Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, went down to Jezreel. He went there to see Joram. That's because Joram had been wounded. Ahaziah was king of Judah. Joram was the son of Ahab." 
2Chronicles22:7 Through Ahaziah's visit to Joram, God caused Ahaziah to fall from power. When Ahaziah arrived, he rode out with Joram to meet Jehu, the son of Nimshi. The Lord had anointed Jehu to destroy the royal family of Ahab." 
2Chronicles22:8 So Jehu punished Ahab's family, just as the Lord had told him to. While he was doing it, he found the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah's relatives. They had been serving Ahaziah. So Jehu killed them." 
2Chronicles22:9 Then he went to look for Ahaziah. Jehu's men captured him while he was hiding in Samaria. Ahaziah was brought to Jehu and put to death. People buried his body, because they said, ""He was a grandson of Jehoshaphat, who followed the Lord with all his heart."" So no one in the royal family of Ahaziah was powerful enough to keep the kingdom." 
2Chronicles22:10 Athaliah was Ahaziah's mother. She saw that her son was dead. So she began to wipe out the whole royal house of Judah. 
2Chronicles22:11 But Jehosheba went and got Joash, the son of Ahaziah. She was the daughter of King Jehoram. She stole Joash away from among the royal princes. All of them were about to be murdered. She put Joash and his nurse in a bedroom. Jehosheba, the daughter of King Jehoram, was the wife of the priest Jehoiada. She was also Ahaziah's sister. So Jehosheba hid the child from Athaliah. That's why Athaliah couldn't kill him." 
2Chronicles22:12 The child remained hidden with the priest and his wife at God's temple for six years. Athaliah ruled over the land during that time. 
2Chronicles23:1 When Joash was seven years old, Jehoiada showed how strong he was. He made a covenant with the commanders of companies of 100 men. The commanders were Azariah son of Jeroham, Ishmael son of Jehohanan, Azariah son of Obed, Maaseiah son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat son of Zicri." 
2Chronicles23:2 They went all through Judah. They gathered together the Levites and the leaders of Israelite families from all of the towns. They came to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles23:3 The whole community made a covenant with the new king at God's temple. Jehoiada said to them, ""Ahaziah's son will rule over Judah. That's what the Lord promised concerning the family line of David." 
2Chronicles23:4 Here's what I want you to do. A third of you priests and Levites who are going on duty on the Sabbath day must guard the doors. 
2Chronicles23:5 A third of you must guard the royal palace. And a third of you must guard the Foundation Gate. All of the other men must guard the courtyards of the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles23:6 Don't let anyone enter the temple except the priests and Levites who are on duty. They can enter because they are set apart to the Lord. But all of the other men must guard the places where the Lord has sent them. 
2Chronicles23:7 The Levites must station themselves around the new king. Each man must have his weapons in his hand. Anyone else who enters the temple must be put to death. Stay close to the king no matter where he goes. 
2Chronicles23:8 The Levites did just as the priest Jehoiada ordered. So did all of the men of Judah. Each commander got his men. Some of the men were going on duty on the Sabbath day. Others were going off duty. Jehoiada didn't let any of the groups go. 
2Chronicles23:9 Then he gave weapons to the commanders of the companies. He gave them spears, large shields and small shields. The weapons had belonged to King David. They had been in God's temple." 
2Chronicles23:10 Jehoiada stationed all of the men around the new king. Each man had his weapon in his hand. They were standing near the altar and the temple. They stood from the south side of the temple to its north side. Their line formed half of a circle. 
2Chronicles23:11 Jehoiada and his sons brought Ahaziah's son out. They put the crown on him. They gave him a copy of the covenant. And they announced that he was king. They anointed him. Then they shouted, ""May the king live a long time!""" 
2Chronicles23:12 Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and cheering the new king. So she went to them at the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles23:13 She looked. And there was the king! He was standing next to his pillar at the entrance. The officers and trumpet players were standing beside the king. All of the people of the land were filled with joy. They were blowing trumpets. Singers with their musical instruments were leading the songs of praise. Then Athaliah tore her royal robes. She shouted, ""Treason! It's treason!""" 
2Chronicles23:14 The priest Jehoiada sent out the commanders of the companies of 100 men. They were in charge of the troops. He said to them, ""Bring her away from the temple between the line of guards. Use your swords to kill anyone who follows her."" The priest had said, ""Don't put her to death at the Lord's temple.""" 
2Chronicles23:15 So they grabbed hold of her as she reached the entrance of the Horse Gate on the palace grounds. There they put her to death. 
2Chronicles23:16 Then Jehoiada made a covenant. He promised that he, the people and the king would be the Lord's people." 
2Chronicles23:17 All of the people went to Baal's temple. They tore it down. They smashed the altars and the statues of gods. They killed Mattan in front of the altars. He was the priest of Baal. 
2Chronicles23:18 Then Jehoiada put the priests, who were Levites, in charge of the Lord's temple. David had given them their duties in the temple. He had appointed them to sacrifice burnt offerings to the Lord. He wanted them to do it in keeping with what was written in the Law of Moses. David wanted them to sing and be full of joy." 
2Chronicles23:19 Jehoiada stationed guards at the gates of the Lord's temple. No one who was unclean in any way could enter. 
2Chronicles23:20 Jehoiada took with him the commanders of hundreds, the nobles, the rulers of the people, and all of the people of the land. He brought the new king down from the Lord's temple. They went into the palace through the Upper Gate. Then they seated the king on the royal throne." 
2Chronicles23:21 All of the people of the land were filled with joy. And the city was quiet. That's because Athaliah had been killed with a sword. 
2Chronicles24:1 Joash was seven years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 40 years. His mother's name was Zibiah. She was from Beersheba. 
2Chronicles24:2 Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He lived that way as long as the priest Jehoiada was alive. 
2Chronicles24:3 Jehoiada chose two wives for Joash. They had sons and daughters by Joash. 
2Chronicles24:4 Some time later Joash decided to make the Lord's temple look like new again. 
2Chronicles24:5 He called together the priests and Levites. He said to them, ""Go to the towns of Judah. Collect the money that the nation of Israel owes every year. Use it to repair the temple of your God. Do it now."" But the Levites didn't do it right away." 
2Chronicles24:6 So the king sent for the chief priest Jehoiada. He said to him, ""Why haven't you required the Levites to bring in the tax from Judah and Jerusalem? It was set up by the Lord's servant Moses and the whole community of Israel. It was used for the tent where the tablets of the covenant were kept.""" 
2Chronicles24:7 The children of that evil woman Athaliah had broken into God's temple. They had used even its sacred objects for the gods that were named after Baal. 
2Chronicles24:8 King Joash commanded that a wooden chest be made. It was placed outside near the gate of the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles24:9 Then a message went out in Judah and Jerusalem. It said that the people should bring the tax to the Lord. God's servant Moses had required Israel to pay that tax when they were in the desert. 
2Chronicles24:10 All of the officials and people gladly brought their money. They dropped it into the chest until it was full. 
2Chronicles24:11 The chest was brought in by the Levites to the king's officials. Every time the officials saw there was a large amount of money in the chest, it was emptied out. The royal secretary and the officer of the chief priest came and emptied it. Then they carried it back to its place. They did it regularly. They collected a great amount of money." 
2Chronicles24:12 The king and Jehoiada gave it to the men who were doing the work on the Lord's temple. They hired people who could lay the stones and people who could work with wood. They also hired people who could work with iron and bronze. They hired all of them to repair the temple. 
2Chronicles24:13 The men who were in charge of the work did their best. The repairs went very well under them. They rebuilt God's temple. They did it in keeping with its original plans. They made it stronger. 
2Chronicles24:14 So they finished the work. Then they brought the rest of the money to the king and Jehoiada. It was used to pay for the articles that were made for the Lord's temple. The articles were used for serving at the temple. They were also used for the burnt offerings. The articles included dishes and other objects that were made out of gold and silver. As long as Jehoiada lived, burnt offerings were sacrificed continually at the Lord's temple." 
2Chronicles24:15 Jehoiada had become very old. He died at the age of 130. 
2Chronicles24:16 His body was buried with the kings in the City of David. That's because he had done so many good things in Israel for God and his temple. 
2Chronicles24:17 After Jehoiada died, the officials of Judah came to King Joash. They bowed down to him. He listened to them." 
2Chronicles24:18 They turned their backs on the temple of the Lord, the God of their people. They worshiped poles that were made to honor the goddess Asherah. They also worshiped statues of other gods. Because Judah and Jerusalem were guilty of sin, God became angry with them." 
2Chronicles24:19 The Lord sent prophets to the people to bring them back to him. The prophets gave witness against the people. But they wouldn't listen. 
2Chronicles24:20 Then the Spirit of God came on the priest Zechariah. He was the son of Jehoiada. Zechariah stood in front of the people. He told them, ""God says, 'Why do you refuse to obey my commands? You will not have success. You have deserted me. So I have deserted you.' """ 
2Chronicles24:20 Then the Spirit of God came on the priest Zechariah. He was the son of Jehoiada. Zechariah stood in front of the people. He told them, ""God says, 'Why do you refuse to obey my commands? You will not have success. You have deserted me. So I have deserted you.' """ 
2Chronicles24:21 But the people made evil plans against Zechariah. The king ordered them to kill Zechariah by throwing stones at him. They did it in the courtyard of the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles24:21 But the people made evil plans against Zechariah. The king ordered them to kill Zechariah by throwing stones at him. They did it in the courtyard of the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles24:22 King Joash didn't remember how kind Zechariah's father Jehoiada had been to him. So he killed Jehoiada's son. As Zechariah was dying he said, ""May the Lord see this. May he hold you accountable.""" 
2Chronicles24:22 King Joash didn't remember how kind Zechariah's father Jehoiada had been to him. So he killed Jehoiada's son. As Zechariah was dying he said, ""May the Lord see this. May he hold you accountable.""" 
2Chronicles24:23 In the spring, the army of Aram marched into Judah and Jerusalem against Joash. They killed all of the leaders of the people. They took a large amount of goods from Judah. They sent it to their king in Damascus." 
2Chronicles24:24 The army of Aram had come with only a few men. But the Lord allowed them to win the battle over a much larger army. Judah had deserted the Lord, the God of their people. That's why the Lord punished Joash." 
2Chronicles24:25 The army of Aram pulled back. They left Joash badly wounded. His officials planned to do evil things to him. That's because he murdered the son of the priest Jehoiada. They killed Joash in his bed. So he died. His body was buried in the City of David. But it wasn't placed in the tombs of the kings. 
2Chronicles24:26 Those who made the plans against Joash were Zabad and Jehozabad. Zabad was the son of Shimeath. She was from Ammon. Jehozabad was the son of Shimrith. She was from Moab. 
2Chronicles24:27 The story of the sons of Joash is written in the notes on the records of the kings. The many prophecies about him are written there too. So is the record of how he made God's temple look like new again. His son Amaziah became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles25:1 Amaziah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Jehoaddin. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles25:2 Amaziah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. But he didn't do it with all his heart. 
2Chronicles25:3 The kingdom was firmly under his control. So he put to death the officials who had murdered his father, the king." 
2Chronicles25:4 But he didn't put their children to death. He obeyed what is written in the Law, the Scroll of Moses. There the Lord commanded, ""Parents must not be put to death because of what their children do. And children must not be put to death because of what their parents do. People must die because of their own sins."",(Deuteronomy 24:16)" 
2Chronicles25:4 But he didn't put their children to death. He obeyed what is written in the Law, the Scroll of Moses. There the Lord commanded, ""Parents must not be put to death because of what their children do. And children must not be put to death because of what their parents do. People must die because of their own sins."",(Deuteronomy 24:16)" 
2Chronicles25:5 Amaziah called the people of Judah together. He arranged them by families under commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. He did it for all of the people of Judah and Benjamin. Then he brought together the men who were 20 years old or more. He found out there were 300,000 men who were able to serve in the army. They could handle spears and shields." 
2Chronicles25:6 He also hired 100,000 fighting men from Israel. He had to pay them almost four tons of silver." 
2Chronicles25:7 But a man of God came to him. He said, ""King Amaziah, these troops from Israel must not march out with you. The Lord is not with Israel. He isn't with any of the people of Ephraim." 
2Chronicles25:8 Go and fight bravely in battle if you want to. But God will destroy you right in front of your enemies. God has the power to help you or destroy you. 
2Chronicles25:9 Amaziah asked the man of God, ""But what about all of that silver I paid for these Israelite troops?"" The man of God replied, ""The Lord can give you much more than that.""" 
2Chronicles25:10 So Amaziah let the troops go who had come to him from Ephraim. He sent them home. They were very angry with Judah. In fact, they were burning with anger when they went home." 
2Chronicles25:11 Then Amaziah showed how strong he was. He led his army to the Valley of Salt. There he killed 10,000 men of Seir." 
2Chronicles25:12 The army of Judah also captured 10,000 men alive. They took them to the top of a cliff. Then they threw them down. All of them were smashed to pieces." 
2Chronicles25:13 The troops Amaziah had sent back attacked some towns in Judah. He hadn't allowed the troops to take part in the war. They attacked towns from Samaria to Beth Horon. They killed 3,000 people. They carried off huge amounts of goods." 
2Chronicles25:14 Amaziah returned from killing the men of Edom. He brought back the statues of the gods of Seir. He set them up as his own gods. He bowed down to them. He burned sacrifices to them. 
2Chronicles25:15 The Lord's anger burned against Amaziah. He sent a prophet to him. The prophet said, ""Why do you ask the gods of those people for advice? They couldn't even save their own people from your power!""" 
2Chronicles25:16 While the prophet was still speaking, the king spoke to him. He said, ""Did I ask you for advice? Stop! If you don't, you will be struck down."" So the prophet stopped. But then he said, ""I know that God has decided to destroy you. That's because you have worshiped other gods. You haven't listened to my advice.""" 
2Chronicles25:17 Amaziah, the king of Judah, spoke to his advisers. Then he sent a message to Jehoash, the king of Israel. Jehoash was the son of Jehoahaz. Jehoahaz was the son of Jehu. Amaziah dared Jehoash, ""Come on. Meet me face to face in battle.""" 
2Chronicles25:18 But Jehoash, the king of Israel, answered Amaziah, the king of Judah. He said, ""A thorn bush in Lebanon sent a message to a cedar tree there. It said, 'Give your daughter to be married to my son.' Then a wild animal in Lebanon came along. It walked all over the thorn bush." 
2Chronicles25:19 You brag that you have won the battle over Edom. You are very proud. But stay home! Why ask for trouble? Why bring yourself crashing down? Why bring Judah down with you? 
2Chronicles25:20 But Amaziah wouldn't listen. That's because God had planned to hand Judah over to Jehoash. After all, they had asked the gods of Edom for advice." 
2Chronicles25:21 So Jehoash, the king of Israel, attacked. He and Amaziah, the king of Judah, faced each other in battle. The battle took place at Beth Shemesh in Judah." 
2Chronicles25:22 Israel drove Judah away. Every man ran home. 
2Chronicles25:23 Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah at Beth Shemesh. Amaziah was the son of Joash. Joash was the son of Ahaziah. Jehoash brought Amaziah to Jerusalem. He broke down part of its wall. It's the part that went from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate. That part of the wall was 600 feet long. 
2Chronicles25:24 Jehoash took all of the gold and silver. He took all of the articles he found in God's temple. Obed-Edom had been in charge of them. Jehoash also took the palace treasures and the prisoners. Then he returned to Samaria. 
2Chronicles25:25 Amaziah king of Judah lived for 15 years after Jehoash king of Israel died. Amaziah was the son of Joash. Jehoash was the son of Jehoahaz. 
2Chronicles25:26 The other events of Amaziah's rule from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
2Chronicles25:27 Amaziah turned away from following the Lord. From that time on, some people made evil plans against him in Jerusalem. So he ran away to Lachish. But they sent men to Lachish after him. There they killed him." 
2Chronicles25:28 His body was brought back on a horse. Then he was buried in the family tomb in Jerusalem, the City of Judah." 
2Chronicles26:1 All of the people of Judah made Uzziah king. He was 16 years old. They made him king in place of his father Amaziah. 
2Chronicles26:2 Uzziah rebuilt Elath. He brought it under Judah's control again. He did it after Amaziah joined the members of his family who had already died. 
2Chronicles26:3 Uzziah was 16 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 52 years. His mother's name was Jecoliah. She was from Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles26:4 Uzziah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Amaziah had done." 
2Chronicles26:5 He looked to God during the days of Zechariah. Zechariah taught him to have respect for God. As long as Uzziah looked to the Lord, God gave him success." 
2Chronicles26:5 He looked to God during the days of Zechariah. Zechariah taught him to have respect for God. As long as Uzziah looked to the Lord, God gave him success." 
2Chronicles26:6 Uzziah went to war against the Philistines. He broke down the walls of Gath, Jabneh and Ashdod. Then he rebuilt some towns that were near Ashdod. He also rebuilt some other towns where Philistines lived." 
2Chronicles26:7 God helped him fight against the Philistines. He also helped him fight against the Meunites and against the Arabs who lived in Gur Baal. 
2Chronicles26:8 The Ammonites brought to Uzziah the gifts he required of them. He became famous all the way to the border of Egypt. That's because he had become very powerful. 
2Chronicles26:9 Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem. They were at the Corner Gate, the Valley Gate and the angle of the wall. He made the towers very strong." 
2Chronicles26:10 He also built towers in the desert. He dug many wells, because he had a lot of livestock. The livestock were in the western hills and on the flatlands. Uzziah had people working in his fields and vineyards in the hills and in the rich lands. That's because he loved the soil." 
2Chronicles26:11 Uzziah's army was well trained. It was ready to march out by companies in keeping with their numbers. Jeiel and Maaseiah brought them together. Jeiel was the secretary. Maaseiah was the officer. They were under the direction of Hananiah. He was one of the royal officials. 
2Chronicles26:12 The total number of family leaders who were over the fighting men was 2,600." 
2Chronicles26:13 An army of 307,500 men was under their command. The men were trained for war. They were a powerful force. They helped the king against his enemies." 
2Chronicles26:14 Uzziah provided the entire army with shields, spears, helmets, coats of armor, bows, and stones for their slings." 
2Chronicles26:15 In Jerusalem he made machines that were based on patterns that skilled men had drawn up. The machines were used on the towers and on the corners of walls. They could shoot arrows. They could also throw large stones. Uzziah became famous everywhere. God greatly helped him until he became powerful. 
2Chronicles26:16 But after Uzziah became powerful, his pride brought him down. He wasn't faithful to the Lord his God. He entered the Lord's temple to burn incense on the altar for burning incense." 
2Chronicles26:17 The priest Azariah followed him in. So did 80 other brave priests of the Lord. 
2Chronicles26:18 They stood up to Uzziah. They said, ""Uzziah, it isn't right for you to burn incense to the Lord. Only the priests are supposed to do that. They are members of the family line of Aaron. They have been set apart to burn incense. So get out of here. Leave the temple. You haven't been faithful. The Lord God won't honor you.""" 
2Chronicles26:19 Uzziah was holding a shallow cup. He was ready to burn incense. He became angry. He shouted at the priests in the Lord's temple. He did it near the altar for burning incense. While he was shouting, a skin disease suddenly broke out on his forehead." 
2Chronicles26:20 The chief priest Azariah looked at him. So did all of the other priests. They saw that Uzziah had a skin disease on his forehead. So they hurried him out of the temple. Actually, he himself really wanted to leave. He knew that the Lord was making him suffer." 
2Chronicles26:21 King Uzziah had the skin disease until the day he died. He lived in a separate house because he had the disease. And he wasn't allowed to enter the Lord's temple. Uzziah's son Jotham was in charge of the palace. Jotham ruled over the people of the land. 
2Chronicles26:22 The other events of Uzziah's rule from beginning to end were written down by the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah was the son of Amoz. 
2Chronicles26:22 The other events of Uzziah's rule from beginning to end were written down by the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah was the son of Amoz. 
2Chronicles26:23 Uzziah joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried near theirs in a royal burial ground. People said, ""He had a skin disease."" His son Jotham became the next king after him." 
2Chronicles27:1 Jotham was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 16 years. His mother's name was Jerusha. She was the daughter of Zadok. 
2Chronicles27:2 Jotham did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father Uzziah had done. But Jotham didn't enter the Lord's temple as Uzziah had done. In spite of that, the people continued to do very sinful things." 
2Chronicles27:3 Jotham rebuilt the Upper Gate of the Lord's temple. He did a lot of work on the wall at the hill of Ophel. 
2Chronicles27:4 He built towns in the hills of Judah. He also built forts and towers in areas that had a lot of trees in them. 
2Chronicles27:5 Jotham went to war against the king of Ammon. He won the battle over the people of Ammon. That year they paid Jotham almost four tons of silver. They paid him 62,000 bushels of wheat and 62,000 bushels of barley. They also brought him the same amount in the second and third years." 
2Chronicles27:6 Jotham became powerful. That's because he had worshiped the Lord his God with all his heart. 
2Chronicles27:7 The other events of Jotham's rule are written down. That includes all of his wars and the other things he did. All of those things are written in the records of the kings of Israel and Judah. 
2Chronicles27:8 Jotham was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 16 years. 
2Chronicles27:9 Jotham joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the City of David. His son Ahaz became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles28:1 Ahaz was 20 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 16 years. He didn't do what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He didn't do what King David had done. 
2Chronicles28:2 He followed the ways of the kings of Israel. He also made metal statues of gods that were named after Baal. 
2Chronicles28:3 He burned sacrifices in the Valley of Ben Hinnom. He sacrificed his children in the fire to other gods. He followed the practices of the nations. The Lord hated those practices. He had driven out those nations to make room for the people of Israel. 
2Chronicles28:4 Ahaz offered sacrifices and burned incense at the high places. He also did it on the tops of hills and under every green tree. 
2Chronicles28:5 So the Lord his God handed him over to the king of Aram. The men of Aram won the battle over him. They took many of his people as prisoners. They brought them to Damascus. God also handed Ahaz over to Pekah. His army wounded or killed many of the troops of Ahaz. Pekah was king of Israel. 
2Chronicles28:6 In one day Pekah killed 120,000 soldiers in Judah. That's because Judah had deserted the Lord, the God of their people. Pekah was the son of Remaliah." 
2Chronicles28:7 Zicri was a fighting man from Ephraim. He killed Maaseiah, Azrikam and Elkanah. Maaseiah was the king's son. Azrikam was the officer who was in charge of the palace. And Elkanah was next in command after the king." 
2Chronicles28:8 The men of Israel captured 200,000 wives, sons and daughters from their relatives in Judah. They also took a large amount of goods. They carried all of it back to Samaria." 
2Chronicles28:9 But a prophet of the Lord was there. His name was Oded. When the army returned to Samaria, he went out to meet them. He said to them, ""The Lord is the God of your people. He burned with anger against Judah. So he handed them over to you. But you have killed them. Your anger reached all the way to heaven." 
2Chronicles28:10 Now you are planning to make the men and women of Judah and Jerusalem your slaves. But aren't you also guilty of sins against the Lord your God? 
2Chronicles28:11 Listen to me! You have taken your relatives from Judah as prisoners. The Lord's anger is burning against you. So send your relatives back. 
2Chronicles28:12 Then some of the leaders in Ephraim stood up to those who were returning from the war. The leaders were Azariah, Berekiah, Jehizkiah and Amasa. Azariah was the son of Jehohanan. Berekiah was the son of Meshillemoth. Jehizkiah was the son of Shallum. And Amasa was the son of Hadlai." 
2Chronicles28:13 Don't bring those prisoners here,"" they said. ""If you do, we'll be guilty in the sight of the Lord. Do you really want to add to our sin and guilt? We're already very guilty. The Lord's anger is burning against Israel.""" 
2Chronicles28:14 So the soldiers gave up the prisoners and the goods they had taken. They did it in front of the officials and the whole community. 
2Chronicles28:15 Azariah, Berekiah, Jehizkiah and Amasa received the prisoners. From the goods that had been taken they gave clothes to all those who were naked. They gave them clothes, sandals, food, drink and healing lotion. They put all of the weak people on donkeys. They took them back to their relatives at Jericho. Then they returned to Samaria. Jericho was also known as the City of Palm Trees." 
2Chronicles28:16 At that time King Ahaz sent men to the king of Assyria to get help. 
2Chronicles28:17 The men of Edom had come again and attacked Judah. They had carried prisoners away. 
2Chronicles28:18 At the same time the Philistines had attacked towns in the western hills and in the Negev Desert of Judah. They had captured Beth Shemesh, Aijalon and Gederoth. They had also captured Soco, Timnah and Gimzo and the villages that were around them. They had settled down in all of them." 
2Chronicles28:19 The Lord had brought Judah down because of Ahaz, their king. Ahaz had stirred up the people of Judah to do evil things. He hadn't been faithful to the Lord at all." 
2Chronicles28:20 Tiglath-Pileser came to Ahaz. But he gave Ahaz trouble instead of help. Tiglath-Pileser was king of Assyria. 
2Chronicles28:21 Ahaz took some things from the Lord's temple. He also took some from the royal palace and from the princes. He gave all of them to the king of Assyria. But that didn't help him. 
2Chronicles28:22 When King Ahaz was in trouble, he became even more unfaithful to the Lord." 
2Chronicles28:23 He offered sacrifices to the gods of Damascus. They had won the battle over him. He thought, ""The gods of the kings of Aram have helped them. So I'll sacrifice to them. Then they'll help me."" But they brought him down. In fact, they brought the whole nation of Israel down." 
2Chronicles28:24 Ahaz gathered together everything that belonged to God's temple. He took all of it away. He shut the doors of the Lord's temple. He set up altars at every street corner in Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles28:25 In every town in Judah he built high places. Sacrifices were burned there to other gods. That made the Lord, the God of his people, very angry." 
2Chronicles28:26 The other events of the rule of Ahaz and all of his evil practices from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
2Chronicles28:27 Ahaz joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in the city of Jerusalem. But it wasn't placed in the tombs of the kings of Israel. His son Hezekiah became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles29:1 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Chronicles29:1 Hezekiah was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 29 years. His mother's name was Abijah. She was the daughter of Zechariah. 
2Chronicles29:2 Hezekiah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as King David had done." 
2Chronicles29:3 In the first month of Hezekiah's first year as king, he opened the doors of the Lord's temple. He repaired them." 
2Chronicles29:4 He brought the priests and Levites in. He gathered them together in the open area on the east side of the temple. 
2Chronicles29:5 He said, ""Levites, listen to me! Set yourselves apart to the Lord. Set apart the temple of the Lord. He's the God of your people. Remove anything that is 'unclean' from the temple." 
2Chronicles29:6 Our people weren't faithful. They did what was evil in the sight of the Lord our God. They deserted him. They turned their faces away from the place where he lives. They turned their backs on him. 
2Chronicles29:7 They also shut the doors of the temple porch. They put the lamps out. They didn't burn incense at the temple. They didn't sacrifice burnt offerings to the God of Israel there. 
2Chronicles29:8 So the Lord has become angry with Judah and Jerusalem. He has made them look so bad that everyone is shocked when they see them. They laugh at them. You can see it with your own eyes. 
2Chronicles29:9 That's why our people have been killed with swords. That's why our sons and daughters and wives have become prisoners. 
2Chronicles29:10 So I'm planning to make a covenant with the Lord, the God of Israel. Then he'll turn his burning anger away from us." 
2Chronicles29:11 My sons, don't fail to obey the Lord. He has chosen you to stand in front of him and work for him. He wants you to serve him and burn incense to him.""" 
2Chronicles29:12 Here are the Levites who went to work. Mahath and Joel were from the family line of Kohath. Mahath was the son of Amasai. Joel was the son of Azariah. Kish and Azariah were from the family line of Merari. Kish was the son of Abdi. Azariah was the son of Jehallelel. Joah and Eden were from the family line of Gershon. Joah was the son of Zimmah. Eden was the son of Joah. 
2Chronicles29:12 Here are the Levites who went to work. Mahath and Joel were from the family line of Kohath. Mahath was the son of Amasai. Joel was the son of Azariah. Kish and Azariah were from the family line of Merari. Kish was the son of Abdi. Azariah was the son of Jehallelel. Joah and Eden were from the family line of Gershon. Joah was the son of Zimmah. Eden was the son of Joah. 
2Chronicles29:13 Shimri and Jeiel were from the family line of Elizaphan. Zechariah and Mattaniah were from the family line of Asaph. 
2Chronicles29:13 Shimri and Jeiel were from the family line of Elizaphan. Zechariah and Mattaniah were from the family line of Asaph. 
2Chronicles29:14 Jehiel and Shimei were from the family line of Heman. Shemaiah and Uzziel were from the family line of Jeduthun. 
2Chronicles29:15 All of those Levites gathered the other Levites together. They set themselves apart to the Lord. Then they went in to purify the Lord's temple. That's what the king had ordered them to do. They did what the Lord told them to. 
2Chronicles29:16 The priests went into the Lord's temple to make it pure. They brought out to the temple courtyard everything that was unclean. They had found unclean things in the Lord's temple. The Levites took them and carried them out to the Kidron Valley. 
2Chronicles29:17 On the first day of the first month they began to set everything in the temple apart to the Lord. By the eighth day of the month they reached the Lord's porch. For eight more days they set the Lord's temple itself apart to him. They finished on the 16th day of the first month. 
2Chronicles29:18 Then they went to King Hezekiah. They reported, ""We've purified the whole temple of the Lord. That includes the altar for burnt offerings and all of its tools. It also includes the table for the holy bread and all of its articles." 
2Chronicles29:19 We've prepared all of the articles King Ahaz had removed. We've set them apart to the Lord. Ahaz had removed them while he was king. He wasn't faithful to the Lord. The articles are now in front of the Lord's altar. 
2Chronicles29:20 Early the next morning King Hezekiah gathered the city officials together. They went up to the Lord's temple. 
2Chronicles29:21 They brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven male lambs and seven male goats with them. They sacrificed the animals as a sin offering for the kingdom, for the temple and for Judah. The king commanded the priests to offer them on the Lord's altar. The priests were from the family line of Aaron." 
2Chronicles29:22 They killed the bulls. Then they sprinkled the blood on the altar. Next they killed the rams and sprinkled the blood on the altar. Then they killed the lambs and sprinkled the blood on the altar. 
2Chronicles29:23 The goats for the sin offering were brought to the king and the whole community. They placed their hands on them. 
2Chronicles29:24 Then the priests killed the goats. They put the blood on the altar as a sin offering. It paid for the sin of the whole nation of Israel. The king had ordered the burnt offering and the sin offering for the whole nation. 
2Chronicles29:25 He stationed the Levites in the Lord's temple. They had cymbals, harps and lyres. They did everything in the way King David, his prophet Gad, and the prophet Nathan had required. The Lord had given commands about all of those things through his prophets." 
2Chronicles29:26 So the Levites stood ready with David's musical instruments. And the priests had their trumpets ready. 
2Chronicles29:27 Hezekiah gave the order to sacrifice the burnt offering on the altar. The offering began. Singing to the Lord also began. The singing was accompanied by the trumpets and by the instruments of David. He had been king of Israel. 
2Chronicles29:28 The whole community bowed down. They worshiped the Lord. At the same time the singers sang. The priests blew their trumpets. All of that continued until the burnt offering had been sacrificed. 
2Chronicles29:29 So the offerings were finished. King Hezekiah got down on his knees. He worshiped the Lord. So did everyone who was with him. 
2Chronicles29:30 The king and his officials ordered the Levites to praise the Lord. They used the words of David and the prophet Asaph. They sang praises with joy. They bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord. 
2Chronicles29:31 Then Hezekiah said, ""You have set yourselves apart to the Lord. Come and bring sacrifices and thank offerings to his temple."" So the whole community brought sacrifices and thank offerings. Everyone who wanted to brought burnt offerings." 
2Chronicles29:32 The whole community brought 70 bulls, 100 rams and 200 male lambs. They brought all of them as burnt offerings to the Lord." 
2Chronicles29:33 The total number of animals that were set apart as sacrifices to the Lord was 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep and goats." 
2Chronicles29:34 But there weren't enough priests to skin all of the burnt offerings. So their brother Levites helped them. They worked until the task was finished. By that time other priests had been set apart to the Lord. The Levites had been more careful than the priests when they set themselves apart. 
2Chronicles29:35 There were large numbers of burnt offerings, along with the drink offerings and the fat from the friendship offerings. They were offered along with the burnt offerings. So the service of the Lord's temple was started up again." 
2Chronicles29:36 Hezekiah and all of the people were filled with joy. That's because everything had been done so quickly. God had provided for his people in a wonderful way. 
2Chronicles30:1 Hezekiah sent a message to all of the people of Israel and Judah. He also wrote letters to the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh. He invited everyone to come to the Lord's temple in Jerusalem. He wanted them to celebrate the Passover Feast in honor of the Lord. He is the God of Israel. 
2Chronicles30:2 The king, his officials and the whole community in Jerusalem decided to celebrate the Passover in the second month." 
2Chronicles30:3 They hadn't been able to celebrate it at the regular time. That's because there weren't enough priests who had set themselves apart to the Lord. Also, the people hadn't gathered together in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:4 The plan seemed good to the king and the whole community. 
2Chronicles30:5 They decided to send a message all through Israel. It was sent out from Beersheba all the way to Dan. The message invited the people to come to Jerusalem. It invited them to celebrate the Passover in honor of the Lord, the God of Israel. The Passover hadn't been celebrated by large numbers of people for a long time. It hadn't been done in keeping with what was written in the law." 
2Chronicles30:6 Messengers went all through Israel and Judah. They carried letters from the king and his officials. The king had ordered them to do that. The letters said, ""People of Israel, return to the Lord. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel. Return to him. Then he will return to you who are left in the land. You have escaped from the power of the kings of Assyria." 
2Chronicles30:7 Don't be like the rest of your people and relatives. They weren't faithful to the Lord, the God of their people. That's why he punished them. He made them look so bad that everyone was shocked when they saw them. You can see it for yourselves." 
2Chronicles30:8 Don't be stubborn. Don't be as your people were. Obey the Lord. Come to the temple. He has set it apart to himself forever. Serve the Lord your God. Then he'll turn his burning anger away from you. 
2Chronicles30:9 Suppose you return to the Lord. Then those who captured your relatives and children will be kind to them. In fact, your relatives and children will come back to this land. The Lord your God is kind and tender. He won't turn away from you if you return to him.""" 
2Chronicles30:10 The messengers went from town to town in Ephraim and Manasseh. They went all the way to Zebulun. But the people made fun of them. They laughed at them. 
2Chronicles30:11 In spite of that, some men from Asher, Manasseh and Zebulun made themselves low in the Lord's sight. They went to Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles30:12 God's powerful hand helped the people of Judah. He helped them agree with one another. So they did what the king and his officials had ordered. They did what the Lord told them to do. 
2Chronicles30:13 A very large crowd of people gathered together in Jerusalem. They went there to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread. It took place in the second month. 
2Chronicles30:14 They removed the altars in Jerusalem. They cleared away the altars for burning incense. They threw all of the altars into the Kidron Valley. 
2Chronicles30:15 They killed the Passover lamb on the 14th day of the second month. The priests and Levites were filled with shame. They set themselves apart to the Lord. They brought burnt offerings to his temple. 
2Chronicles30:16 Then they went to their regular positions. They did it just as the Law of Moses, the man of God, required. The Levites gave the blood of the animals to the priests. The priests sprinkled it on the altar." 
2Chronicles30:17 Many people in the crowd hadn't set themselves apart to the Lord. They weren't clean. They couldn't set their lambs apart to him. So the Levites had to kill the Passover lambs for all of them. 
2Chronicles30:18 Many people came from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun. Most of them hadn't made themselves pure and clean. But they still ate the Passover meal. That was against what was written in the law. But Hezekiah prayed for them. He said, ""The Lord is good. May he forgive everyone" 
2Chronicles30:19 who wants to worship God with all his heart. God is the Lord, the God of their people. May God forgive them even if they aren't 'clean' in keeping with the rules of the temple.""" 
2Chronicles30:20 The Lord answered Hezekiah's prayer. He healed the people. 
2Chronicles30:21 The people of Israel who were in Jerusalem celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread. They celebrated for seven days with great joy. The Levites and priests sang to the Lord every day. Their singing was accompanied by musical instruments. The instruments were used to praise the Lord. 
2Chronicles30:22 Hezekiah spoke words that gave hope to all of the Levites. They understood how to serve the Lord well. For the seven days of the Feast they ate the share that was given to them. They also sacrificed friendship offerings. They praised the Lord, the God of their people." 
2Chronicles30:23 Then the whole community agreed to celebrate the Feast for seven more days. So for another seven days they celebrated with joy. 
2Chronicles30:24 Hezekiah, the king of Judah, provided 1,000 bulls and 7,000 sheep and goats for the community. The officials provided 1,000 bulls and 10,000 sheep and goats for them. A large number of priests set themselves apart to the Lord." 
2Chronicles30:25 The entire community of Judah was filled with joy. So were the priests and Levites. And so were all of the people who had gathered together from Israel. That included the outsiders who had come from Israel. It also included those who lived in Judah. 
2Chronicles30:26 There was great joy in Jerusalem. There hadn't been anything like it in Israel since the days of Solomon, the son of David. Solomon had been king of Israel." 
2Chronicles30:27 The priests and Levites gave their blessing to the people. God heard them. Their prayer reached all the way to heaven. It's the holy place where he lives. 
2Chronicles31:1 The Feast came to an end. The people of Israel who were in Jerusalem went out to the towns of Judah. They smashed the sacred stones. They cut down the poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. They destroyed the high places and the altars. They did those things all through Judah and Benjamin. They also did them in Ephraim and Manasseh. They destroyed all of the objects that were used to worship other gods. Then the people returned to their own towns and property. 
2Chronicles31:2 Hezekiah put the priests and Levites in groups based on their duties. The priests sacrificed burnt offerings and friendship offerings. The Levites served the Lord by giving thanks and singing praises at the gates of his house. 
2Chronicles31:3 The king gave some of his own possessions to the temple. He gave them for the morning and evening burnt offerings. He gave them for the burnt offerings for every Sabbath day. He gave them for the burnt offerings for every New Moon feast. And he gave them for the burnt offerings for every yearly appointed feast. He did it in keeping with what is written in the Law of the Lord. 
2Chronicles31:4 Hezekiah gave an order to the people who were living in Jerusalem. He commanded them to give to the priests and Levites the share they owed them. Then the priests and Levites could give their full attention to the Law of the Lord. 
2Chronicles31:5 The order went out. Right away the people of Israel began to give freely. They gave the first share of the harvest of their grain, fresh wine, olive oil and honey. They also gave the first share of everything else their fields produced. They brought a large amount. It was a tenth of everything." 
2Chronicles31:6 The people of Israel and Judah who lived in the towns of Judah brought a tenth of their herds and flocks. They also brought a tenth of the holy things they had set apart to the Lord their God. They put them in piles. 
2Chronicles31:7 They began doing it in the third month. They finished in the seventh month. 
2Chronicles31:8 Hezekiah and his officials came and saw the piles. When they did, they praised the Lord. And they blessed his people Israel." 
2Chronicles31:9 Hezekiah asked the priests and Levites about the piles. 
2Chronicles31:10 The chief priest Azariah answered him. He said, ""The people have been bringing their gifts to the Lord's temple. Ever since they began to bring them, we've had enough to eat. We have even had plenty to spare. That's because the Lord has blessed his people. So we have a large amount left over."" Azariah was from the family line of Zadok." 
2Chronicles31:11 Hezekiah gave orders to prepare storerooms in the Lord's temple. And it was done. 
2Chronicles31:12 The people were faithful. They brought in their offerings, a tenth of everything they produced, and the gifts they had set apart to the Lord. The Levite Conaniah was in charge of those things. His brother Shimei was next in command after him." 
2Chronicles31:13 Conaniah and his brother Shimei had directors who worked under them. Their names were Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismakiah, Mahath and Benaiah. King Hezekiah and Azariah had appointed them. Azariah was the official who was in charge of God's temple." 
2Chronicles31:14 The Levite Kore guarded the East Gate. He was in charge of the offerings people chose to give to God. He handed out the offerings that were made to the Lord. He also handed out the gifts that had been set apart to the Lord. Kore was the son of Imnah. 
2Chronicles31:15 Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah and Shecaniah helped Kore. They were faithful in helping him in the towns of the priests. They handed out gifts to their brother priests, group by group. They gave the gifts to young men and old men alike." 
2Chronicles31:16 In addition to that, they handed out gifts to the males who were three years old or more. The names of those males were listed in their family history. All of them would enter the Lord's temple. They would carry out their duties each day. Each group did all of the different things it was supposed to do." 
2Chronicles31:17 Kore and his Levite companions also handed out gifts to the priests. The priests were listed by their families in their family history. Those Levites also handed out gifts to the Levites who were 20 years old or more. Each group did all of the different things it was supposed to do. 
2Chronicles31:18 Those groups included all of the little ones, the wives, and the sons and daughters of the whole community. All of them were listed in their family history. They were faithful in setting themselves apart to serve the Lord." 
2Chronicles31:19 Some of the priests, who were from the family line of Aaron, lived in other towns or on farms around their towns. Men were chosen by name to hand out shares to those priests. They gave a share to every male among them. They also gave a share to everyone whose name was written down in the family history of the Levites." 
2Chronicles31:20 That's what Hezekiah did all through Judah. He did what was good and right. He was faithful to the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles31:21 He looked to his God. He worked for him with all his heart. That's the way he worked in everything he did to serve God's temple. He obeyed the law. He followed the Lord's commands. So he had success. 
2Chronicles32:1 Hezekiah had been completely faithful to the Lord. But in spite of that, Sennacherib came and marched into Judah. He was the king of Assyria. He surrounded the cities that had high walls around them. He got ready to attack them. He thought he could win the battle over them. He thought he could take them for himself." 
2Chronicles32:2 Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come to Jerusalem to make war against it. 
2Chronicles32:3 So he asked his officials and military leaders for advice. He asked them about blocking off the water from the springs that were outside the city. They gave him the advice he asked for. 
2Chronicles32:4 A large group of men gathered together. They blocked all of the springs. They also blocked the stream that flowed through the land. Why should the kings of Assyria come and find plenty of water? they asked. 
2Chronicles32:5 Then Hezekiah worked hard repairing all of the broken parts of the wall. He built towers on it. He built another wall outside that one. He built up the areas that had been filled in around the City of David. He also made large numbers of weapons and shields. 
2Chronicles32:6 He appointed military officers over the people. He gathered the officers together in front of him in the open area at the city gate. He gave them words of hope. He said," 
2Chronicles32:7 Be strong. Be brave. Don't be afraid. Don't lose hope. The king of Assyria has a huge army with him. But there's a greater power with us than there is with him. 
2Chronicles32:8 The only thing he has is human strength. But the Lord our God is with us. He will help us. He'll fight our battles. The people had great faith in what Hezekiah, the king of Judah, said." 
2Chronicles32:9 Later Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, and all of his forces surrounded Lachish. They got ready to attack it. At that time, he sent his officers to Jerusalem. They went there with a message for Hezekiah, the king of Judah. The message was also for all of the people of Judah who were there. The message said," 
2Chronicles32:10 Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, says, 'Why are you putting your faith in what your king says? Why do you remain in Jerusalem when you are surrounded?" 
2Chronicles32:11  'Hezekiah says, ""The Lord our God will save us from the powerful hand of the king of Assyria."" But he isn't telling you the truth. If you listen to him, you will die of hunger and thirst." 
2Chronicles32:12  'Didn't Hezekiah himself remove your god's high places and altars? Didn't Hezekiah say to the people of Judah and Jerusalem, ""You must worship at one altar. You must burn sacrifices on it""?" 
2Chronicles32:13  'Don't you know what I and the kings who ruled before me have done? Don't you know what we've done to all of the peoples of the other lands? Were the gods of those nations ever able to save their lands from my power? 
2Chronicles32:14 The kings who ruled before me destroyed many nations. Which one of the gods of those nations has been able to save his people from me? So how can your god save you from my power? 
2Chronicles32:15  'Don't let Hezekiah trick you. He's telling you lies. Don't believe him. No god of any nation or kingdom has been able to save his people from my power. No god has been able to save his people from the power of the kings who ruled before me. So your god won't save you from my power either!' 
2Chronicles32:16 Sennacherib's officers spoke even more things against the Lord God and his servant Hezekiah. 
2Chronicles32:17 The king also wrote letters against the Lord. His letters made fun of the God of Israel. They said, ""The peoples of other lands have their gods. But those gods didn't save their people from my powerful hand. So the god of Hezekiah won't save his people from my powerful hand either.""" 
2Chronicles32:18 Then the officers called out in the Hebrew language to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall. They were trying to scare them and make them afraid. That's because they wanted to capture the city. 
2Chronicles32:19 They were comparing the God of Jerusalem to the gods of the other nations of the world. But those gods were only statues. They had been made by the hands of men. 
2Chronicles32:20 King Hezekiah cried out in prayer to God in heaven. He prayed about the problem Jerusalem was facing. So did the prophet Isaiah. He was the son of Amoz. 
2Chronicles32:20 King Hezekiah cried out in prayer to God in heaven. He prayed about the problem Jerusalem was facing. So did the prophet Isaiah. He was the son of Amoz. 
2Chronicles32:21 The Lord sent an angel. The angel wiped out all of the enemy's fighting men, leaders and officers. He put an end to them right there in the camp of the Assyrian king. So Sennacherib went back to his own land in shame. He went into the temple of his god. There some of his own sons cut him down with their swords." 
2Chronicles32:22 So the Lord saved Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem. He saved them from the power of Sennacherib, the king of Assyria. He also saved them from all of their other enemies. He took care of them on every side." 
2Chronicles32:23 Many people brought offerings to Jerusalem for the Lord. They brought expensive gifts for Hezekiah, the king of Judah. From then on, all of the nations thought highly of him." 
2Chronicles32:24 In those days Hezekiah became sick. He knew he was about to die. So he prayed to the Lord. And the Lord answered him. He gave him a miraculous sign. 
2Chronicles32:25 But Hezekiah's heart was proud. He didn't give thanks for the many kind things the Lord had done for him. So the Lord became angry with him. He also became angry with Judah and Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles32:26 Then Hezekiah had a change of heart. He was sorry he had been proud. The people of Jerusalem were also sorry they had sinned. So the Lord wasn't angry with them as long as Hezekiah was king. 
2Chronicles32:27 Hezekiah was very rich. He received great honor. He made storerooms for his silver and gold. He also made them for his jewels, spices, shields and all kinds of expensive things." 
2Chronicles32:28 He made buildings to store the harvest of grain, fresh wine and olive oil. He made barns for all kinds of cattle. He made sheep pens for his flocks." 
2Chronicles32:29 He built villages. He gained large numbers of flocks and herds. God had made him very rich. 
2Chronicles32:30 Hezekiah blocked up the upper opening of the Gihon spring. He directed the water to flow down to the west side of the City of David. He had success in everything he did. 
2Chronicles32:31 The rulers of Babylon sent messengers to him. They asked him about the miraculous sign that had taken place in the land. Then God left him to put him to the test. He wanted to know everything that was in his heart. 
2Chronicles32:32 Hezekiah did many things that showed he was faithful to the Lord. Those things and the other events of his rule are written down. They are written in the record of the vision of the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz. That record is part of the records of the kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles32:32 Hezekiah did many things that showed he was faithful to the Lord. Those things and the other events of his rule are written down. They are written in the record of the vision of the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz. That record is part of the records of the kings of Judah and Israel." 
2Chronicles32:33 Hezekiah joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried on the hill where the tombs of David's family are. The whole nation of Judah honored him when he died. So did the people of Jerusalem. Hezekiah's son Manasseh became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles33:1 Manasseh was 12 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 55 years. 
2Chronicles33:2 Manasseh did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He followed the practices of the nations. The Lord hated those practices. He had driven those nations out to make room for the people of Israel. 
2Chronicles33:3 Manasseh rebuilt the high places. His father Hezekiah had destroyed them. Manasseh also set up altars to the gods that were named after Baal. He made poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. He even bowed down to all of the stars. And he worshiped them. 
2Chronicles33:4 He built altars in the Lord's temple. The Lord had said about his temple, ""My Name will remain in Jerusalem forever.""" 
2Chronicles33:5 In both courtyards of the Lord's temple Manasseh built altars to honor all of the stars. 
2Chronicles33:6 He sacrificed his children in the fire to other gods. He did it in the Valley of Ben Hinnom. He practiced all kinds of evil magic. He took part in worshiping evil powers. He got messages from those who had died. He talked to the spirits of the dead. He did many things that were evil in the sight of the Lord. He made him very angry. 
2Chronicles33:7 Manasseh had carved a statue of a god. He put it in God's temple. God had spoken to David and his son Solomon about the temple. He had said, ""My Name will be in this temple and in Jerusalem forever. Out of all of the cities in the tribes of Israel I have chosen Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles33:8 I gave this land to your people who lived long ago. I will not make the Israelites leave it again. But they must be careful to do everything I commanded them. They must follow all of the laws, directions, and rules I gave them through Moses.""" 
2Chronicles33:9 But Manasseh led Judah and the people of Jerusalem down the wrong path. They did more evil things than the nations the Lord had destroyed to make room for the people of Israel. 
2Chronicles33:10 The Lord spoke to Manasseh and his people. But they didn't pay any attention to him. 
2Chronicles33:11 So the Lord brought the army commanders of the king of Assyria against them. They took Manasseh as a prisoner. They put a hook in his nose. They put him in bronze chains. And they took him to Babylon. 
2Chronicles33:12 When Manasseh was in trouble, he asked the Lord his God to show favor to him. He made himself very low in the sight of the God of his people." 
2Chronicles33:13 Manasseh prayed to him. When he did, the Lord felt sorry for him. He answered his prayer. He brought him back to Jerusalem and his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord is God." 
2Chronicles33:14 After that, Manasseh rebuilt the outer wall of the City of David. It was west of the Gihon spring in the valley. It reached all the way to the entrance of the Fish Gate. It went around the entire hill of Ophel. Manasseh also made the wall much higher. He stationed military commanders in all of the cities in Judah that had high walls around them." 
2Chronicles33:15 Manasseh got rid of the strange gods. He removed the statue of one of those gods from the Lord's temple. He also removed all of the altars he had built on the temple hill and in Jerusalem. He threw them out of the city. 
2Chronicles33:16 Then he made the Lord's altar look like new again. He sacrificed friendship offerings and thank offerings on it. He told the people of Judah to serve the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:17 The people continued to offer sacrifices at the high places. But they offered them only to the Lord their God. 
2Chronicles33:18 The other events of Manasseh's rule are written down in the official records of the kings of Israel. They include his prayer to his God. They also include the words the prophets spoke to him in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles33:19 Everything about Manasseh is written in the records of the prophets. That includes his prayer and the fact that God felt sorry for him. It includes everything he did before he made himself low in the Lord's sight. It includes all of his sins and the fact that he wasn't faithful to the Lord. It includes the locations where he built high places. It includes the places where he set up poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. And it includes the places where he set up statues of other gods. 
2Chronicles33:20 Manasseh joined the members of his family who had already died. His body was buried in his palace. His son Amon became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles33:21 Amon was 22 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for two years. 
2Chronicles33:22 Amon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, just as his father Manasseh had done. Amon worshiped and offered sacrifices to all of the statues of gods that Manasseh had made." 
2Chronicles33:23 He didn't make himself low in the Lord's sight as his father Manasseh had done. So Amon became even more guilty. 
2Chronicles33:24 Amon's officials made plans against him. They murdered him in his palace. 
2Chronicles33:25 Then the people of the land killed all those who had made plans against King Amon. They made his son Josiah king in his place. 
2Chronicles34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 31 years. 
2Chronicles34:2 He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He lived the way King David had lived. He didn't turn away from it to the right or the left. 
2Chronicles34:3 While he was still young, he began to worship the God of King David. It was the eighth year of Josiah's rule. In his 12th year he began to get rid of the high places in Judah and Jerusalem. He removed the poles that were used to worship the goddess Asherah. He also removed the wooden and metal statues of gods." 
2Chronicles34:4 He ordered the altars of the gods that were named after Baal to be torn down. He cut to pieces the altars for burning incense that were above them. He smashed the Asherah poles. He also smashed the wooden and metal statues of gods. He broke all of them to pieces. He scattered the pieces over the graves of those who had offered sacrifices to those gods. 
2Chronicles34:5 He burned the bones of the priests on their altars. That's the way he made Judah and Jerusalem pure and clean. 
2Chronicles34:6 He went to the towns of Manasseh, Ephraim and Simeon. He went all the way to Naphtali. He also went to the destroyed places around all of those towns." 
2Chronicles34:7 Everywhere he went he tore down the altars and the Asherah poles. He crushed the statues of gods to powder. He cut to pieces all of the altars for burning incense. He destroyed all of those things everywhere in Israel. Then he went back to Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:8 In the 18th year of Josiah's rule, he decided to make the land and temple pure and clean. So he sent Shaphan, Maaseiah and Joah to repair the temple of the Lord his God. Shaphan was the son of Azaliah. Maaseiah was ruler of the city. And Joah, the son of Joahaz, kept the records." 
2Chronicles34:9 They went to the high priest Hilkiah. They gave him the money that had been brought into God's temple. The Levites who guarded the doors had collected it. They had received some of the money from the people of Manasseh, Ephraim and the others who remained in Israel. They had received the rest of it from the people of Judah and Benjamin and those who lived in Jerusalem." 
2Chronicles34:10 They put all of the money in the care of the men who had been appointed to direct the work on the Lord's temple. Those men paid the workers who repaired the temple and made it look like new again. 
2Chronicles34:11 They also gave money to the builders and those who worked with wood. The workers used it to buy lumber and blocks of stone. The lumber was used for the supports and beams for the buildings. The kings of Judah had let the buildings fall down. 
2Chronicles34:12 The men were faithful in doing the work. Jahath and Obadiah directed them. They were Levites from the family line of Merari. Zechariah and Meshullam also directed them. They were from the family line of Kohath. The Levites were skilled in playing musical instruments. 
2Chronicles34:12 The men were faithful in doing the work. Jahath and Obadiah directed them. They were Levites from the family line of Merari. Zechariah and Meshullam also directed them. They were from the family line of Kohath. The Levites were skilled in playing musical instruments. 
2Chronicles34:12 The men were faithful in doing the work. Jahath and Obadiah directed them. They were Levites from the family line of Merari. Zechariah and Meshullam also directed them. They were from the family line of Kohath. The Levites were skilled in playing musical instruments. 
2Chronicles34:13 They were in charge of the laborers. They directed all of the workers from job to job. Some of the Levites were secretaries and writers. Others guarded the doors. 
2Chronicles34:14 The money that had been taken into the Lord's temple was being brought out. At that time the priest Hilkiah found the Scroll of the Law of the Lord. It had been given through Moses. 
2Chronicles34:15 Hilkiah spoke to the secretary Shaphan. He said, ""I've found the Scroll of the Law in the Lord's temple."" He gave it to Shaphan." 
2Chronicles34:16 Then Shaphan took the scroll to King Josiah. He told him, ""Your officials are doing everything they've been asked to do." 
2Chronicles34:17 They have paid out the money that was in the Lord's temple. They've put it in the care of the directors and workers. 
2Chronicles34:18 Shaphan continued, ""The priest Hilkiah has given me a scroll."" Shaphan read some of it to the king." 
2Chronicles34:19 The king heard the words of the Law. When he did, he tore his royal robes." 
2Chronicles34:20 He gave orders to Hilkiah, Ahikam, Abdon, the secretary Shaphan and Asaiah. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan. Abdon was the son of Micah. And Asaiah was the king's attendant. Josiah commanded them," 
2Chronicles34:20 He gave orders to Hilkiah, Ahikam, Abdon, the secretary Shaphan and Asaiah. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan. Abdon was the son of Micah. And Asaiah was the king's attendant. Josiah commanded them," 
2Chronicles34:21 Go. Ask the Lord for advice. Ask him about what is written in this scroll that has been found. Do it for me. Also do it for those who remain in Israel and Judah. The Lord has poured out his burning anger on us. That's because our people before us didn't obey what the Lord had said. They didn't do everything that is written in this scroll. 
2Chronicles34:22 Hilkiah and those the king had sent with him went to speak to the prophet Huldah. She was the wife of Shallum. Shallum was the son of Tokhath. Tokhath was the son of Hasrah. Shallum took care of the sacred robes. Huldah lived in the New Quarter of Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:23 She said to them, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'Tell the man who sent you to me," 
2Chronicles34:24 The Lord says, 'I am going to bring horrible trouble on this place and its people. All of the curses that are written down in the scroll that has been read to the king of Judah will take place." 
2Chronicles34:25 That is because the people have deserted me. They have burned incense to other gods. They have made me very angry because of everything their hands have made. So I will pour out my burning anger on this place. The fire of my anger will not be put out.'  ' 
2Chronicles34:26 The king of Judah sent you to ask for advice. Tell him, 'The Lord is the God of Israel. He has a message for you about the things you heard." 
2Chronicles34:27 He says, ""Your heart was tender. You made yourself low in my sight. You heard what I spoke against this place and its people. So you made yourself low. You tore your royal robes and sobbed. And I have heard you,"" announces the Lord." 
2Chronicles34:28  ' You will join the members of your family who have already died. Your body will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all of the trouble I am going to bring on this place and those who live here. '  Huldah's answer was taken back to the king. 
2Chronicles34:29 Then the king called together all of the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles34:30 He went up to the Lord's temple. The people of Judah and Jerusalem went with him. So did the priests and Levites. All of them went, from the least important of them to the most important. The king had all of the words of the Scroll of the Covenant read to them. The scroll had been found in the Lord's temple." 
2Chronicles34:31 The king stood next to his pillar. He agreed to the terms of the covenant in front of the Lord. He promised to follow him and obey his commands, directions and rules. He promised to obey them with all his heart and with all his soul. So he promised to obey the terms of the covenant that were written down in that scroll." 
2Chronicles34:32 Then he had everyone in Jerusalem and in Benjamin commit themselves to the covenant. The people of Jerusalem did it in keeping with the covenant of the God of Israel. 
2Chronicles34:33 Josiah removed all of the statues of gods from the whole territory that belonged to the people of Israel. The Lord hated those statues. Josiah had everyone in Israel serve the Lord their God. As long as he lived, they didn't fail to follow the Lord, the God of their people." 
2Chronicles35:1 Josiah celebrated the Passover Feast in Jerusalem in honor of the Lord. The Passover lamb was killed on the 14th day of the first month. 
2Chronicles35:2 Josiah appointed the priests to their duties. He cheered them up as they served the Lord at his temple. 
2Chronicles35:3 The Levites taught all of the people of Israel. The Levites had been set apart to the Lord. Josiah said to them, ""Put the sacred ark of the covenant in the temple Solomon built. He was the son of David and king of Israel. The ark must not be carried around on your shoulders. Serve the Lord your God. Serve his people Israel." 
2Chronicles35:4 Prepare yourselves by families in your groups. Do it based on the directions that were written by David, the king of Israel, and by his son Solomon." 
2Chronicles35:5 Stand at the temple. Stand there with a group of Levites for each group of families among your people. 
2Chronicles35:6 Kill the Passover lambs. Set yourselves apart to the Lord. Prepare the lambs for your people. Do what the Lord commanded through Moses. 
2Chronicles35:7 Josiah provided animals for the Passover offerings. He gave them for all of the people who were there. He gave a total of 30,000 sheep and goats and 3,000 head of cattle. He gave all of them from his own possessions." 
2Chronicles35:8 His officials also gave freely. They gave to the people and the priests and Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah and Jehiel were in charge of God's temple. They gave the priests 2,600 Passover lambs and 300 head of cattle." 
2Chronicles35:8 His officials also gave freely. They gave to the people and the priests and Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah and Jehiel were in charge of God's temple. They gave the priests 2,600 Passover lambs and 300 head of cattle." 
2Chronicles35:9 Conaniah and his brothers Shemaiah and Nethanel also gave offerings. So did Hashabiah, Jeiel and Jozabad. All of them were the leaders of the Levites. They gave 5,000 Passover lambs and 500 head of cattle for the Levites." 
2Chronicles35:10 The Passover service was arranged. The priests stood in their places. The Levites were in their groups. That's what the king had ordered. 
2Chronicles35:11 The Passover lambs were killed. The priests sprinkled the blood that had been handed to them. The Levites skinned the animals. 
2Chronicles35:12 They set the burnt offerings to one side. Those offerings were for the smaller family groups of the people to offer to the Lord. That's what was written in the Scroll of Moses. The Levites did the same thing with the cattle. 
2Chronicles35:13 They cooked the Passover animals over the fire, just as the law required. They boiled the holy offerings in pots, large kettles and pans. They served the offerings quickly to all of the people." 
2Chronicles35:14 After that, they got things ready for themselves and the priests. That's because the priests, who were from the family line of Aaron, were busy until dark. They were sacrificing the burnt offerings and the fat parts. The Levites got things ready for themselves and for the priests, who belonged to Aaron's family line." 
2Chronicles35:15 Those who played music were from the family line of Asaph. They were in the places that had been set up by David, Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun. Jeduthun had been the king's prophet. The guards at each gate didn't have to leave their places. That's because their brother Levites got things ready for them." 
2Chronicles35:16 So at that time the entire service in honor of the Lord was carried out. The Passover Feast was celebrated. The burnt offerings were sacrificed on the Lord's altar. That's what King Josiah had ordered. 
2Chronicles35:17 The people of Israel who were there celebrated the Passover at that time. They observed the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days. 
2Chronicles35:18 The Passover hadn't been observed like that in Israel since the days of the prophet Samuel. None of the kings of Israel had ever celebrated a Passover like Josiah's. He celebrated it with the priests and Levites. All of the people of Judah and Israel were there along with the people of Jerusalem. 
2Chronicles35:19 That Passover Feast was celebrated in the 18th year of Josiah's rule. 
2Chronicles35:20 Josiah had put the temple in order. After all of that, Neco went up to fight at Carchemish. He was king of Egypt. Carchemish was on the Euphrates River. Josiah marched out to meet Neco in battle." 
2Chronicles35:21 But Neco sent messengers to him. They said, ""King Josiah, there isn't any trouble between you and me. I'm not attacking you at this time. I'm at war with another country. God told me to hurry. He's with me. So stop opposing him. If you don't, he'll destroy you.""" 
2Chronicles35:22 But Josiah wouldn't turn away from Neco. He wore different clothes so people wouldn't recognize him. He wanted to go to war against Neco. He wouldn't listen to what God had commanded Neco to say. Instead, he went out to fight him on the flatlands of Megiddo." 
2Chronicles35:23 Men who had bows shot arrows at King Josiah. After he was hit, he told his officers, ""Take me away. I'm badly wounded.""" 
2Chronicles35:24 So they took him out of his chariot. They put him in his other chariot. They brought him to Jerusalem. There he died. His body was buried in the tombs of his family. All of the people of Judah and Jerusalem sobbed over him. 
2Chronicles35:25 Jeremiah wrote songs of sadness about Josiah. To this very day all of the male and female singers remember Josiah by singing those songs. That became a practice in Israel. The songs are written down in the Book of the Songs of Sadness. 
2Chronicles35:25 Jeremiah wrote songs of sadness about Josiah. To this very day all of the male and female singers remember Josiah by singing those songs. That became a practice in Israel. The songs are written down in the Book of the Songs of Sadness. 
2Chronicles35:26 Josiah did many things that showed he was faithful to the Lord. Those things and the other events of Josiah's rule were in keeping with what is written in the Law of the Lord. 
2Chronicles35:27 All of the events from beginning to end are written down. They are written in the records of the kings of Israel and Judah. 
2Chronicles36:1 The people of the land went and got Jehoahaz. He was the son of Josiah. The people made Jehoahaz king in Jerusalem in place of his father. 
2Chronicles36:2 Jehoahaz was 23 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for three months. 
2Chronicles36:3 The king of Egypt removed him from his throne in Jerusalem. The king of Egypt made the people of Judah pay him a tax of almost four tons of silver and 75 pounds of gold. 
2Chronicles36:4 Neco, the king of Egypt, made Eliakim king over Judah and Jerusalem. Eliakim was a brother of Jehoahaz. Neco changed Eliakim's name to Jehoiakim. But he took Eliakim's brother Jehoahaz with him to Egypt." 
2Chronicles36:5 Jehoiakim was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord his God. 
2Chronicles36:6 Nebuchadnezzar attacked him. Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. He put Jehoiakim in bronze chains. And he took him to Babylon. 
2Chronicles36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also took articles from the Lord's temple. He took them to Babylon. He put them in his own temple there. 
2Chronicles36:8 The other events of Jehoiakim's rule are written in the records of the kings of Israel and Judah. He did things the Lord hated. Those things and everything that happened to him are also written in those records. His son Jehoiachin became the next king after him. 
2Chronicles36:9 Jehoiachin was 18 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for three months and ten days. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. 
2Chronicles36:10 In the spring, King Nebuchadnezzar sent for him. He brought him to Babylon. He also brought articles of value from the Lord's temple. He made Zedekiah king over Judah and Jerusalem. Zedekiah was Jehoiachin's uncle." 
2Chronicles36:11 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. 
2Chronicles36:12 He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord his God. He didn't pay any attention to the message the Lord spoke through the prophet Jeremiah. 
2Chronicles36:12 He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord his God. He didn't pay any attention to the message the Lord spoke through the prophet Jeremiah. 
2Chronicles36:13 Zedekiah also refused to remain under the control of King Nebuchadnezzar. The king had made him take an oath in God's name. But his heart became very stubborn. He wouldn't turn to the Lord, the God of Israel." 
2Chronicles36:14 And that's not all. The people and the leaders of the priests became more and more unfaithful. They followed all of the practices of the nations. The Lord hated those practices. The people and leaders made the Lord's temple unclean. The Lord had set the temple in Jerusalem apart in a special way for himself. 
2Chronicles36:15 The Lord, the God of Israel, sent word to his people through his messengers. He sent it to them again and again. He took pity on his people. He also took pity on the temple where he lived." 
2Chronicles36:16 But God's people made fun of his messengers. They hated his words. They laughed at his prophets. Finally the Lord's burning anger was stirred up against his people. Nothing could save them. 
2Chronicles36:17 The Lord brought the king of Babylonia against them. The Babylonian army killed their young people with their swords at the temple. They didn't spare young men or women. They didn't spare the old people either. God handed all of them over to Nebuchadnezzar. 
2Chronicles36:18 Nebuchadnezzar carried off to Babylon all of the articles from God's temple. Some of the articles were large. Others were small. He carried off the treasures of the temple. He also carried off the treasures that belonged to the king and his officials. 
2Chronicles36:19 The Babylonians set God's temple on fire. They broke down the wall of Jerusalem. They burned all of the palaces. They destroyed everything of value there. 
2Chronicles36:20 Nebuchadnezzar took the rest of the people to Babylon as prisoners. They had escaped from being killed with swords. They served him and his sons. That lasted until the kingdom of Persia became stronger than Babylonia. 
2Chronicles36:21 The land of Israel enjoyed its sabbath years. It rested. That deserted land wasn't farmed for a full 70 years. What the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah came true. 
2Chronicles36:21 The land of Israel enjoyed its sabbath years. It rested. That deserted land wasn't farmed for a full 70 years. What the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah came true. 
2Chronicles36:22 It was the first year of the rule of Cyrus. He was king of Persia. The Lord stirred him up to send a message all through his kingdom. It happened so that what the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah would come true. The message was written down. It said," 
2Chronicles36:22 It was the first year of the rule of Cyrus. He was king of Persia. The Lord stirred him up to send a message all through his kingdom. It happened so that what the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah would come true. The message was written down. It said," 
2Chronicles36:23 Cyrus, the king of Persia, says, "" 'The Lord is the God of heaven. He has given me all of the kingdoms on earth. He has appointed me to build a temple for him at Jerusalem in Judah. Any one of his people among you can go up to Jerusalem. And may the Lord your God be with you.' """ 
Ezra1:1 It was the first year of the rule of Cyrus. He was king of Persia. The Lord stirred him up to send a message all through his kingdom. It happened so that what the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah would come true. The message was written down. It said," 
Ezra1:1 It was the first year of the rule of Cyrus. He was king of Persia. The Lord stirred him up to send a message all through his kingdom. It happened so that what the Lord had spoken through Jeremiah would come true. The message was written down. It said," 
Ezra1:2 Cyrus, the king of Persia, says, "" 'The Lord is the God of heaven. He has given me all of the kingdoms on earth. He has appointed me to build a temple for him at Jerusalem in Judah." 
Ezra1:3  'Any one of his people among you can go up to Jerusalem. And may your God be with you. You can build the Lord's temple. He is the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. 
Ezra1:4  'The people who are still left alive in every place must bring him gifts. They must provide him with silver and gold. They must bring goods and livestock. They should also bring any offerings they choose to. All of those gifts will be for God's temple in Jerusalem.' 
Ezra1:5 Then everyone God had stirred up got ready to go. They wanted to go up to Jerusalem and build the Lord's temple there. They included the family leaders of Judah and Benjamin. They also included the priests and Levites. 
Ezra1:6 All of their neighbors helped them. They gave them silver and gold articles. They gave them goods and livestock. And they gave them gifts of great value. All of those things were added to the other offerings the people chose to give. 
Ezra1:7 King Cyrus also brought out the articles that belonged to the Lord's temple. Nebuchadnezzar had carried them off from Jerusalem. He had put them in the temple of his own god. 
Ezra1:8 Cyrus, the king of Persia, told Mithredath to bring them out. Mithredath was in charge of the temple treasures. He counted the articles. Then he gave them to Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah." 
Ezra1:9 Here is a list of the articles. There were 30 gold dishes. There were 1,000 silver dishes. There were 29 silver pans." 
Ezra1:10 There were 30 gold bowls. There were 410 matching silver bowls. There were 1,000 other articles." 
Ezra1:11 The total number of gold and silver articles was 5,400. Sheshbazzar took all of them with him to Jerusalem. He brought them along when the Jews who had been forced to leave Judah came back from Babylon." 
Ezra2:1 Nebuchadnezzar had taken many Jews away from the land of Judah. He had forced them to go to Babylonia as prisoners. Now they returned to Jerusalem and Judah. All of them went back to their own towns. Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. 
Ezra2:2 The leaders of the Jews included Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah and Reelaiah. They also included Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum and Baanah. Here is a list of the men of Israel who returned home." 
Ezra2:2 The leaders of the Jews included Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah and Reelaiah. They also included Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum and Baanah. Here is a list of the men of Israel who returned home." 
Ezra2:3 There were 2,172 from the family line of Parosh." 
Ezra2:4 There were 372 from Shephatiah. 
Ezra2:5 There were 775 from Arah. 
Ezra2:6 There were 2,812 from Pahath-Moab through the family line of Jeshua and Joab." 
Ezra2:7 There were 1,254 from Elam." 
Ezra2:8 There were 945 from Zattu. 
Ezra2:9 There were 760 from Zaccai. 
Ezra2:10 There were 642 from Bani. 
Ezra2:11 There were 623 from Bebai. 
Ezra2:12 There were 1,222 from Azgad." 
Ezra2:13 There were 666 from Adonikam. 
Ezra2:14 There were 2,056 from Bigvai." 
Ezra2:15 There were 454 from Adin. 
Ezra2:16 There were 98 from Ater through the family line of Hezekiah. 
Ezra2:17 There were 323 from Bezai. 
Ezra2:18 There were 112 from Jorah. 
Ezra2:19 There were 223 from Hashum. 
Ezra2:20 There were 95 from Gibbar. 
Ezra2:21 There were 123 from the men of Bethlehem. 
Ezra2:22 There were 56 from Netophah. 
Ezra2:23 There were 128 from Anathoth. 
Ezra2:24 There were 42 from Azmaveth. 
Ezra2:25 There were 743 from Kiriath Jearim, Kephirah and Beeroth." 
Ezra2:26 There were 621 from Ramah and Geba. 
Ezra2:27 There were 122 from Micmash. 
Ezra2:28 There were 223 from Bethel and Ai. 
Ezra2:29 There were 52 from Nebo. 
Ezra2:30 There were 156 from Magbish. 
Ezra2:31 There were 1,254 from the other Elam." 
Ezra2:32 There were 320 from Harim. 
Ezra2:33 There were 725 from Lod, Hadid and Ono." 
Ezra2:34 There were 345 from Jericho. 
Ezra2:35 There were 3,630 from Senaah." 
Ezra2:36 Here is a list of the priests. There were 973 from the family line of Jedaiah through the line of Jeshua. 
Ezra2:37 There were 1,052 from Immer." 
Ezra2:38 There were 1,247 from Pashhur." 
Ezra2:39 There were 1,017 from Harim." 
Ezra2:40 Here is a list of the Levites. There were 74 from the family lines of Jeshua and Kadmiel through the line of Hodaviah. 
Ezra2:41 Here is a list of the singers. There were 128 from the family line of Asaph. 
Ezra2:42 Here is a list of the men who guarded the temple gates. There were 139 from the family lines of 'ZZ'Shallum, Ater, Talmon, 'ZZ'Akkub, Hatita and Shobai." 
Ezra2:43 Here is a list of the members of the family lines of the temple servants. Ziha, Hasupha, Tabbaoth," 
Ezra2:44 Keros, Siaha, Padon," 
Ezra2:45 Lebanah, Hagabah, Akkub," 
Ezra2:46 Hagab, Shalmai, Hanan," 
Ezra2:47 Giddel, Gahar, Reaiah," 
Ezra2:48 Rezin, Nekoda, Gazzam," 
Ezra2:49 Uzza, Paseah, Besai," 
Ezra2:50 Asnah, Meunim, Nephussim," 
Ezra2:51 Bakbuk, Hakupha, Harhur," 
Ezra2:52 Bazluth, Mehida, Harsha," 
Ezra2:53 Barkos, Sisera, Temah," 
Ezra2:54 Neziah, Hatipha" 
Ezra2:55 Here is a list of the members of the family lines of the servants of Solomon. Sotai, Hassophereth, Peruda," 
Ezra2:56 Jaala, Darkon, Giddel," 
Ezra2:57 Shephatiah, Hattil, 'ZZ'Pokereth-Hazzebaim, Ami" 
Ezra2:58 The total number of the members of the family lines of the temple servants and the servants of Solomon was 392. 
Ezra2:59 Many people came up to Judah from the towns of Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Kerub, Addon and Immer. But they weren't able to prove that their families belonged to the people of Israel." 
Ezra2:60 There were 652 of them from the family lines of 'ZZ'Delaiah, Tobiah and Nekoda." 
Ezra2:61 Here is a list of the members of the family lines of the priests. They were Hobaiah, Hakkoz and Barzillai. Barzillai had married a daughter of Barzillai from Gilead. So he was also called Barzillai." 
Ezra2:62 The priests looked for their family records. But they couldn't find them. So they weren't able to serve as priests. They weren't clean. 
Ezra2:63 The governor gave them an order. He told them not to eat any of the most sacred food. They had to wait until there was a priest who could use the Urim and Thummim to find out what the Lord wanted them to do. 
Ezra2:64 The total number of the entire group that returned was 42,360." 
Ezra2:65 That didn't include their 7,337 male and female slaves. There were also 200 male and female singers." 
Ezra2:66 And there were 736 horses, 245 mules," 
Ezra2:67 435 camels and 6,720 donkeys." 
Ezra2:68 All of the people arrived at the Lord's temple in Jerusalem. Then some of the leaders of the families brought offerings they chose to give. They would be used for rebuilding the house of God. It would stand in the same place it had been before. 
Ezra2:69 The people gave money for the work. It was based on how much they had. They gave 1,100 pounds of gold. They also gave three tons of silver. And they gave 100 sets of clothes for the priests. All of that was added to the temple treasure." 
Ezra2:70 The priests and Levites settled in their own towns. So did the singers, the men who guarded the gates, and the temple servants. The rest of the people of Israel also settled in their own towns." 
Ezra3:1 The people of Israel had settled down in their towns. In the seventh month all of them gathered together in Jerusalem. 
Ezra3:2 Then Jeshua began to build the altar for burnt offerings to honor the God of Israel. Jeshua was the son of Jehozadak. The other priests helped Jeshua. So did Zerubbabel and his men. They built the altar in keeping with what is written in the Law of Moses. Moses was a man of God. Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel. 
Ezra3:3 The people who built the altar were afraid of the nations that were around them. But they built it anyway. They set it up where it had stood before. They sacrificed burnt offerings on it to the Lord. They offered the morning and evening sacrifices on it. 
Ezra3:4 Then they celebrated the Feast of Booths. They did it in keeping with what is written in the Law. They sacrificed the number of burnt offerings that were required for each day. 
Ezra3:5 After they celebrated the Feast of Booths, they sacrificed the regular burnt offerings. They offered the New Moon sacrifices. They also offered the sacrifices for all of the appointed sacred feasts of the Lord. And they sacrificed the offerings the people chose to give him." 
Ezra3:6 On the first day of the seventh month they began to offer burnt offerings to the Lord. They did it even though the foundation of the Lord's temple hadn't been finished yet. 
Ezra3:7 The people gave money to those who worked with stone and those who worked with wood. They gave food and drink and olive oil to the people of Sidon and Tyre. Then those people brought cedar logs down from Lebanon to the Mediterranean Sea. They floated them down to Joppa. Cyrus, the king of Persia, authorized them to do it." 
Ezra3:8 It was the second month of the second year after they had arrived at the house of God in Jerusalem. Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, began the work. Jeshua, the son of Jehozadak, helped him. So did everyone else. That included the priests and Levites. It also included the rest of those who had returned to Jerusalem. They had been prisoners in Babylonia. Levites who were 20 years old or more were appointed to be in charge of building the Lord's house." 
Ezra3:9 Those who joined together to direct the work included Jeshua and his sons and brothers. They also included Kadmiel and his sons. And they included the sons of Henadad and all of their sons and brothers. All of those men were Levites. Kadmiel and his sons were members of the family line of Hodaviah. 
Ezra3:10 The builders laid the foundation of the Lord's temple. Then the priests came. They were wearing their special clothes. They brought their trumpets with them. The Levites who belonged to the family line of Asaph also came. They brought their cymbals with them. The priests and Levites took their places to praise the Lord. They did everything just as King David had required them to. 
Ezra3:11 They sang to the Lord. They praised him. They gave thanks to him. They said, ""The Lord is good. His faithful love to Israel continues forever."" All of the people gave a loud shout. They praised the Lord. They were glad because the foundation of the Lord's temple had been laid." 
Ezra3:12 But many of the older priests and Levites and family leaders sobbed out loud. They had seen the first temple. So when they saw the foundation of the second temple being laid, they sobbed. Others shouted with joy." 
Ezra3:13 No one could tell the difference between the shouts of joy and the sounds of sobbing. That's because the people made so much noise. The sound was heard far away. 
Ezra4:1 The enemies of Judah and Benjamin heard about what the people who had returned from Babylonia were doing. They heard that they were building a temple to honor the Lord. He is the God of Israel. 
Ezra4:2 The enemies came to Zerubbabel. The family leaders of Israel were with him. The enemies said, ""We want to help you build. We're just like you. We worship your God. We offer sacrifices to him. We've been doing that ever since the time of Esarhaddon. He was king of Assyria. He brought our people here.""" 
Ezra4:3 Zerubbabel and Jeshua answered them. So did the rest of the family leaders of Israel. They said, ""You can't help us build a temple to honor our God. You aren't part of us. We'll build it ourselves. We'll do it to honor the Lord. He is the God of Israel. Cyrus, the king of Persia, commanded us to build it.""" 
Ezra4:4 Then the nations that were around Judah tried to make its people lose hope. They wanted to make them afraid to go on building. 
Ezra4:5 So they hired advisers to work against them. They wanted their plans to fail. They did it during the whole time Cyrus was king of Persia. They kept doing it until Darius became king. 
Ezra4:6 The enemies of the Jews brought charges against the people of Judah and Jerusalem. It happened when Xerxes began to rule over Persia. 
Ezra4:7 Then Artaxerxes became king of Persia. During his rule, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel and their friends wrote a letter to him. It was written in the Aramaic language. And it used the Aramaic alphabet." 
Ezra4:8 Rehum and Shimshai also wrote a letter to King Artaxerxes. Rehum was the commanding officer. Shimshai was the secretary. Their letter was against the people of Jerusalem. It said," 
Ezra4:9 We, Rehum and Shimshai, are writing this letter. Rehum is the commanding officer. Shimshai is the secretary. Our friends join us in writing. They include the judges and officials who are in charge of the people from Tripolis, Persia, Erech and Babylon. They are also over the Elamites from Susa." 
Ezra4:10 And they are over those who were forced to leave their countries. The great King Ashurbanipal, who is worthy of honor, forced them to leave. He settled them in the city of Samaria. He also settled them in other places west of the Euphrates River." 
Ezra4:11 Here is a copy of the letter that was sent to Artaxerxes. We are sending this letter to you, King Artaxerxes. It is from your servants who live west of the Euphrates River." 
Ezra4:12 We want you to know that the Jews who left you and came up to us have gone to Jerusalem. They are rebuilding that evil city. It has caused trouble for a long time. The Jews are making its walls like new again. They are repairing the foundations. 
Ezra4:13 Here is something else we want you to know. Suppose this city is rebuilt. And suppose its walls are made like new again. Then no more taxes, gifts or fees will be collected. And there will be less money for you." 
Ezra4:14 We owe a lot to you. We don't want to see dishonor brought on you. So we're sending this letter to tell you what is going on. 
Ezra4:15 Then you can have a search made in the official records. Have someone check the records of the kings who ruled before you. If you do, you will find out that Jerusalem is an evil city. It causes trouble for kings and countries. For a long time the city has refused to let anyone rule over it. That's why it was destroyed." 
Ezra4:16 We want you to know that this city shouldn't be rebuilt. Its walls shouldn't be made like new again. If that happens, you won't have anything left west of the Euphrates River." 
Ezra4:17 The king replied, I am writing this letter to Rehum, the commanding officer. I am also writing it to Shimshai, the secretary. And I am writing it to your friends who are living in Samaria and in other places west of the Euphrates River. I give you my greetings." 
Ezra4:18 The letter you sent us has been read to me. It has been explained to me in my language. 
Ezra4:19 I gave an order. I had a search made. We found out that Jerusalem has a long history of turning against the kings of the countries that have ruled over it. It has refused to remain under their control. It is always stirring up trouble. 
Ezra4:20 Jerusalem has had powerful kings. Some of them ruled over everything west of the Euphrates. Taxes, gifts and fees were paid to them." 
Ezra4:21 So give an order to those men. Make them stop their work. Then the city won't be rebuilt until I give the order. 
Ezra4:22 Pay careful attention to this matter. Why should we let this danger grow? That would not be in our best interests. 
Ezra4:23 The copy of the letter of King Artaxerxes was read to Rehum and the secretary Shimshai. It was also read to their friends. Right away they went to the Jews in Jerusalem. They forced them to stop their work. 
Ezra4:24 And so the work on the house of God in Jerusalem came to an end. Nothing more was done on it until the second year that Darius was king of Persia. 
Ezra5:1 The prophets Haggai and Zechariah prophesied to the Jews in Judah and Jerusalem. They spoke to them in the name of the God of Israel. He had spoken to those prophets. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Iddo. 
Ezra5:1 The prophets Haggai and Zechariah prophesied to the Jews in Judah and Jerusalem. They spoke to them in the name of the God of Israel. He had spoken to those prophets. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Iddo. 
Ezra5:1 The prophets Haggai and Zechariah prophesied to the Jews in Judah and Jerusalem. They spoke to them in the name of the God of Israel. He had spoken to those prophets. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Iddo. 
Ezra5:2 Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, began to work. So did Jeshua, the son of Jehozadak. They began to rebuild the house of God in Jerusalem. The prophets of God were right there with them. They were helping them." 
Ezra5:3 At that time Tattenai was governor of the land west of the Euphrates River. He and Shethar-Bozenai and their friends went to the Jews. They asked them, ""Who authorized you to rebuild this temple? Who told you that you could make this building like new again?""" 
Ezra5:4 They also asked, ""What are the names of the men who are putting up this building?""" 
Ezra5:5 But the God of the Jews was watching over their elders. So they didn't have to stop their work. First a report would have to be sent to Darius. Then they would have to receive his answer in writing. 
Ezra5:6 Here is a copy of the letter that was sent to King Darius. It was from Tattenai, the governor of the land west of the Euphrates. Shethar-Bozenai joined him in writing it. So did their friends. They were officials of that land." 
Ezra5:7 The report they sent to the king said, We are sending this letter to you, King Darius. We give you our most friendly greetings." 
Ezra5:8 We want you to know that we went to the land of Judah. We went to the temple of the great God. The people are building it with large stones. They are putting wooden beams in the walls. The people are working hard. The work is moving ahead very quickly under the direction of the people. 
Ezra5:9 We asked the elders some questions. We said to them, ""Who authorized you to rebuild this temple? Who told you that you could make this building like new again?""" 
Ezra5:10 We also asked them their names. We wanted to write down the names of their leaders for your information. 
Ezra5:11 Here is the answer they gave us. They said, ""We serve the God of heaven and earth. We are rebuilding the temple that was built many years ago. The great King Solomon built it and finished it." 
Ezra5:12 But our people made the God of heaven angry. So he handed them over to Nebuchadnezzar from Chaldea. He was king of Babylonia. He destroyed this temple. He forced the Jews to leave their own country. He took them away to Babylonia. 
Ezra5:13 But King Cyrus gave an order to rebuild this house of God. He gave it in the first year he was king of Babylonia. 
Ezra5:14 He even removed some gold and silver articles from the temple of Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar had brought them there from the house of God in Jerusalem. He had taken them to the temple in Babylon. Then King Cyrus brought them out. He gave them to a man named Sheshbazzar. Cyrus had appointed him as governor. 
Ezra5:15 He told him, 'Take these articles with you. Go and put them in the temple in Jerusalem. Rebuild the house of God in the same place where it stood before.'" 
Ezra5:16 So Sheshbazzar made the trip to Jerusalem. He laid the foundations of the house of God there. From that day until now the people have been working on it. But they haven't finished it yet. 
Ezra5:17 If it pleases you, King Darius, let a search be made in the official records of the kings of Babylonia. Find out whether King Cyrus really did give an order to rebuild this house of God in Jerusalem. Then tell us what you decide to do." 
Ezra6:1 King Darius gave an order. He had a search made in the official records that were stored among the treasures at Babylon. 
Ezra6:2 A scroll was found in a safe storeroom at Ecbatana in the land of Media. Here is what was written on it. This is my official reply to your letter. 
Ezra6:3 In the first year that Cyrus was king, he gave an order. It concerned God's temple in Jerusalem. It said, Rebuild the temple. Then the Jews can offer sacrifices there. Lay its foundations. The temple must be 90 feet high and 90 feet wide." 
Ezra6:4 Its walls must have three layers of large stones. They must also have a layer of beautiful wood. Use money from the royal treasures to pay for everything. 
Ezra6:5 The gold and silver articles from the house of God must be returned. Nebuchadnezzar had taken them from the first temple in Jerusalem. And he had brought them to Babylon. Now they must be returned to their places in the temple at Jerusalem. They must be put in the house of God there. 
Ezra6:6 Tattenai, you are governor of the land west of the Euphrates River. I want you to stay away from the temple in Jerusalem. Shethar-Bozenai and the other officials of that area must also stay away from it." 
Ezra6:7 Don't try to stop the work on God's temple. Let the governor of the Jews and their elders rebuild the house of their God. Let them build it in the same place where it stood before. 
Ezra6:8 Here is what I want you to do for the elders of the Jews. Here is how you must help the men who build the house of their God. Pay all of their expenses from the royal treasures. Use the money you collect from the people who live west of the Euphrates. Don't let the work on the temple stop. 
Ezra6:9 Don't fail to give the priests in Jerusalem what they ask for each day. Give them what they need. Give them young bulls, rams and male lambs. The priests can use them to sacrifice burnt offerings to the God of heaven. Also give them wheat, salt, wine and olive oil." 
Ezra6:10 Give them those things so they can offer sacrifices that please the God of heaven. And I want them to pray that things will go well for me and my sons. 
Ezra6:11 Don't change this order. If a man tries to change it, he must be put to death. A pole must be pulled from his house. The pole must be stuck through his body. Then it must be set up where people can see it. Because the man tried to change my royal order, his house must be broken to pieces." 
Ezra6:12 God has chosen to put his Name in the temple at Jerusalem. May he wipe out any king or nation that lifts a hand to change this order. May he also wipe out anyone who tries to destroy the temple in Jerusalem. That's what I have ordered. I am King Darius. Make sure you carry out my order. 
Ezra6:13 The governor Tattenai carried out the order King Darius had sent. So did Shethar-Bozenai and their friends. 
Ezra6:14 The elders of the Jews continued to build the temple. They enjoyed great success because of the preaching of the prophets Haggai and Zechariah. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Iddo. The people finished building the temple. That's what the God of Israel had commanded them to do. Cyrus and Darius had given orders allowing them to do it. Later, Artaxerxes supplied many things that were needed in the temple. Those three men were kings of Persia." 
Ezra6:14 The elders of the Jews continued to build the temple. They enjoyed great success because of the preaching of the prophets Haggai and Zechariah. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Iddo. The people finished building the temple. That's what the God of Israel had commanded them to do. Cyrus and Darius had given orders allowing them to do it. Later, Artaxerxes supplied many things that were needed in the temple. Those three men were kings of Persia." 
Ezra6:14 The elders of the Jews continued to build the temple. They enjoyed great success because of the preaching of the prophets Haggai and Zechariah. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Iddo. The people finished building the temple. That's what the God of Israel had commanded them to do. Cyrus and Darius had given orders allowing them to do it. Later, Artaxerxes supplied many things that were needed in the temple. Those three men were kings of Persia." 
Ezra6:15 So the temple was completed on the third day of the month of Adar. It was in the sixth year that Darius was king. 
Ezra6:16 When the house of God was set apart, the people of Israel celebrated with joy. The priests and Levites joined them. So did the rest of those who had returned from Babylonia." 
Ezra6:17 When the house of God was set apart to him, the people sacrificed 100 bulls. They also sacrificed 200 rams and 400 male lambs. As a sin offering for the whole nation of Israel, the people sacrificed 12 male goats. One goat was sacrificed for each tribe in Israel." 
Ezra6:18 The priests were appointed to their companies. And the Levites were appointed to their groups. All of them served God at Jerusalem. They served him in keeping with what is written in the Scroll of Moses. 
Ezra6:19 Those who had returned from Babylonia celebrated the Passover Feast. It was on the 14th day of the first month. 
Ezra6:20 The priests and Levites had made themselves pure and clean. The Levites killed the Passover lamb for everyone who had returned from Babylonia. They also did it for themselves and their relatives, the priests." 
Ezra6:21 So the people of Israel who had returned ate the Passover lamb. They ate it together with all those who had separated themselves from the practices of their neighbors who weren't Jews. Those practices were unclean. The people worshiped the Lord. He is the God of Israel. 
Ezra6:22 For seven days they celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread with joy. That's because the Lord had filled them with joy. They were glad because he had changed the mind of the king of Persia. So the king had helped them with the work on the house of the God of Israel. 
Ezra7:1 After all of those things had happened, Ezra came up to Jerusalem from Babylonia. It was during the rule of Artaxerxes. He was king of Persia. Ezra was the son of Seraiah. Seraiah was the son of Azariah. Azariah was the son of Hilkiah." 
Ezra7:2 Hilkiah was the son of Shallum. Shallum was the son of Zadok. Zadok was the son of Ahitub. 
Ezra7:3 Ahitub was the son of Amariah. Amariah was the son of Azariah. Azariah was the son of Meraioth. 
Ezra7:4 Meraioth was the son of Zerahiah. Zerahiah was the son of Uzzi. Uzzi was the son of Bukki. 
Ezra7:5 Bukki was the son of Abishua. Abishua was the son of Phinehas. Phinehas was the son of Eleazar. And Eleazar was the son of the chief priest Aaron. 
Ezra7:6 So Ezra came up from Babylonia. He was a teacher. He knew the Law of Moses very well. The Lord had given Israel that law. He is the God of Israel. The king had given Ezra everything he asked for. That's because the powerful hand of the Lord his God helped him. 
Ezra7:7 Some of the people of Israel came up to Jerusalem too. They included priests, Levites and singers. They also included the temple servants and those who guarded the temple gates. It was in the seventh year that Artaxerxes was king." 
Ezra7:8 Ezra arrived in Jerusalem in the fifth month of the seventh year of the king's rule. 
Ezra7:9 Ezra had begun his journey from Babylonia on the first day of the first month. He arrived in Jerusalem on the first day of the fifth month. That's because the gracious hand of his God helped him. 
Ezra7:10 Ezra had committed himself to study and obey the Law of the Lord. He also wanted to teach the Lord's rules and laws in Israel. 
Ezra7:11 Ezra was a priest and teacher. He was an educated man. He knew the Lord's commands and rules for Israel very well. Here is a copy of a letter King Artaxerxes had given to Ezra. It said," 
Ezra7:12 I, Artaxerxes, am writing this letter. I am the greatest king of all. I have given it to the priest Ezra. He is a teacher of the Law of the God of heaven. I give you my greetings." 
Ezra7:13 Ezra, there are people from Israel in my kingdom. I am giving an order that any of them who want to go to Jerusalem with you can go. The order also allows priests and Levites to go with you." 
Ezra7:14 I and my seven advisers are sending you to see how things are going in Judah and Jerusalem. Find out whether the people there are obeying the Law of your God. You have a copy of that law with you. 
Ezra7:15 I and my advisers have freely given some silver and gold to the God of Israel. He lives in Jerusalem. Take the silver and gold with you. 
Ezra7:16 Also take any other silver and gold you can get from the land of Babylonia. And take the offerings the people and priests choose to give for the temple of their God in Jerusalem. 
Ezra7:17 Make sure you use the money to buy bulls, rams and male lambs. Also buy their grain offerings and drink offerings. Then sacrifice them on the altar of the temple of your God in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:18 You and the other Jews can do what you think is best with the rest of the silver and gold. Do what your God wants you to do. 
Ezra7:19 Give to the God of Jerusalem all of the articles you are accountable for. Use them for worshiping your God in his temple. 
Ezra7:20 You might need to supply some other things for the temple of your God. If you do, take them from among the royal treasures." 
Ezra7:21 I, King Artaxerxes, also give this order. It applies to all those who are in charge of the treasures west of the Euphrates River. Make sure you provide anything the priest Ezra might ask you to give. He is a teacher of the Law of the God of heaven." 
Ezra7:22 Give Ezra up to three and three-fourths tons of silver. Give him up to 600 bushels of wheat. Give him up to 600 gallons of wine. Also give him up to 600 gallons of olive oil. And give him as much salt as he needs. 
Ezra7:23 Work hard for the temple of the God of heaven. Do everything he has required. I don't want him to be angry with my kingdom and the kingdom of my sons. 
Ezra7:24 I want you to know that you don't have any authority to collect taxes, gifts or fees from these people. You can't collect them from the priests, Levites, singers or those who guard the temple gates. And you can't collect them from the temple servants or other workers at the house of God in Jerusalem." 
Ezra7:25 Ezra, appoint judges and other court officials. When you do it, use the wisdom your God gives you. Those you appoint should do what is right and fair when they judge people. They should do it for everyone who lives west of the Euphrates. They should do it for everyone who knows the laws of your God. And I want you to teach the people who don't know those laws." 
Ezra7:26 Anyone who doesn't obey the law of your God must be punished. The same thing applies to anyone who doesn't obey my law. The people must be punished in keeping with the laws they have broken. Some of them must be put to death. Others must be forced to leave the places where they live. Others must have their property taken away from them. Still others must be put in prison. 
Ezra7:27 People of Israel, give praise to the Lord. He is the God of our people who lived long ago. He has put it in the king's heart to bring honor to the Lord's temple in Jerusalem. The king has honored the Lord in his letter." 
Ezra7:28 The Lord has shown his good favor to me. He has caused the king and his advisers to show me their favor. In fact, all of the king's powerful officials have shown favor to me. The strong hand of the Lord my God helped me. That gave me new strength. So I gathered together leaders from Israel to go up to Jerusalem with me." 
Ezra8:1 Many family leaders came up to Jerusalem with me from Babylonia. So did others who were listed with them. It was during the time when Artaxerxes was king. Here is a list of those who came. 
Ezra8:2 Gershom came from the family line of Phinehas. Daniel came from the family line of Ithamar. Hattush came from the family line of David. 
Ezra8:2 Gershom came from the family line of Phinehas. Daniel came from the family line of Ithamar. Hattush came from the family line of David. 
Ezra8:3 Hattush also belonged to the family of Shecaniah. Zechariah came from the family line of Parosh. The total number of men who were listed with him was 150. 
Ezra8:3 Hattush also belonged to the family of Shecaniah. Zechariah came from the family line of Parosh. The total number of men who were listed with him was 150. 
Ezra8:4 Eliehoenai came from the family line of Pahath-Moab. Eliehoenai was the son of Zerahiah. The total number of men with him was 200. 
Ezra8:5 Shecaniah came from the family line of Zattu. Shecaniah was the son of Jahaziel. The total number of men with him was 300. 
Ezra8:6 Ebed came from the family line of Adin. Ebed was the son of Jonathan. The total number of men with him was 50. 
Ezra8:7 Jeshaiah came from the family line of Elam. Jeshaiah was the son of Athaliah. The total number of men with him was 70. 
Ezra8:8 Zebadiah came from the family line of Shephatiah. Zebadiah was the son of Michael. The total number of men with him was 80. 
Ezra8:9 Obadiah came from the family line of Joab. Obadiah was the son of Jehiel. The total number of men with him was 218. 
Ezra8:9 Obadiah came from the family line of Joab. Obadiah was the son of Jehiel. The total number of men with him was 218. 
Ezra8:10 Shelomith came from the family line of Bani. Shelomith was the son of Josiphiah. The total number of men with him was 160. 
Ezra8:11 Zechariah came from the family line of Bebai. Zechariah was the son of Bebai. The total number of men with him was 28. 
Ezra8:11 Zechariah came from the family line of Bebai. Zechariah was the son of Bebai. The total number of men with him was 28. 
Ezra8:12 Johanan came from the family line of Azgad. Johanan was the son of Hakkatan. The total number of men with him was 110. 
Ezra8:13 Eliphelet, Jeuel and Shemaiah came from the family line of Adonikam. Some members of their family had gone up to Jerusalem before them. The total number of men with them was 60." 
Ezra8:14 Uthai and Zaccur came from the family line of Bigvai. The total number of men with them was 70. 
Ezra8:15 I gathered the people together at the waterway that flows toward Ahava. We camped there for three days. I looked for Levites among the people and priests. But I didn't find any. 
Ezra8:16 So I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan and Jarib. I also sent for Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah and Meshullam. All of them were leaders. And I sent for Joiarib and Elnathan. They were very well educated." 
Ezra8:16 So I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan and Jarib. I also sent for Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah and Meshullam. All of them were leaders. And I sent for Joiarib and Elnathan. They were very well educated." 
Ezra8:17 I sent all of those men to Iddo. He was the leader in Casiphia. He and his relatives were temple servants there. I told my men what to say to them. I wanted Iddo and his relatives to bring some attendants to us for the house of our God. 
Ezra8:18 The gracious hand of our God helped us. So they brought us Sherebiah. He was a man of ability. He came from the family line of Mahli. Mahli was the son of Levi. Levi was a son of Israel. They also brought us Sherebiah's sons and brothers. The total number of men was 18. 
Ezra8:19 And they brought Hashabiah and his brothers and nephews. They brought them together with Jeshaiah. He came from the family line of Merari. The total number of men was 20. 
Ezra8:20 They also brought 220 of the temple servants. That was a special group David and his officials had established. They were supposed to help the Levites. All of them were listed by name. 
Ezra8:21 I announced a fast by the waterway that flows toward Ahava. I told the people not to eat any food. In that way, we made ourselves low in the sight of God. We prayed that he would give us and our children a safe journey. We asked him to keep safe everything we owned." 
Ezra8:22 I was ashamed to ask King Artaxerxes for soldiers and horsemen. They could have kept us safe from enemies on the road. But we had told the king that our God would keep us safe. We had said, ""The gracious hand of our God helps everyone who looks to him. But he becomes very angry with anyone who deserts him.""" 
Ezra8:23 So we didn't eat anything. We prayed to our God about all of those matters. And he answered our prayers. 
Ezra8:24 Then I set 12 of the leading priests apart. I also set apart Sherebiah, Hashabiah and ten of their relatives." 
Ezra8:25 I weighed out to them the offering of silver and gold and other articles. They had been given for the house of our God. The king, his advisers and officials, and all of the people of Israel who were there had given them." 
Ezra8:26 I weighed out 25 tons of silver to those men. I weighed out almost four tons of silver articles. I weighed out almost four tons of gold. 
Ezra8:27 I weighed out 20 gold bowls. They weighed 19 pounds. I also weighed out two fine articles. The bronze they were made out of was highly polished. They were as priceless as gold. 
Ezra8:28 I said to those men, ""You are set apart to the Lord. So are these articles. The silver and gold were offered to the Lord by those who chose to give them. He is the God of your people." 
Ezra8:29 Guard all of those things carefully until you weigh them out. Weigh them in the special rooms of the Lord's temple in Jerusalem. Do it in front of the leading priests and the Levites. Make sure the family leaders of Israel are watching. 
Ezra8:30 Then the priests and Levites received the silver and gold and sacred articles. All of them had been weighed out. They were going to take them to the house of our God in Jerusalem. 
Ezra8:31 On the 12th day of the first month we started out. We left the waterway that flows toward Ahava. And we headed for Jerusalem. The powerful hand of our God helped us. He kept us safe from enemies and robbers along the way. 
Ezra8:32 So we arrived in Jerusalem. There we rested for three days. 
Ezra8:33 On the fourth day we weighed out the silver and gold. We also weighed out the sacred articles. We weighed everything in the house of our God. We handed all of it over to the priest Meremoth. He was the son of Uriah. Eleazar, Jozabad and Noadiah were with him. Eleazar was the son of Phinehas. Jozabad was the son of Jeshua. Noadiah was the son of Binnui. Jozabad and Noadiah were Levites." 
Ezra8:34 Everything was listed by number and weight. And the total weight was recorded at that time. 
Ezra8:35 Then the people sacrificed burnt offerings to the God of Israel. They had returned from Babylonia. They offered 12 bulls for the whole nation of Israel. They offered 96 rams and 77 male lambs. All of that was a burnt offering to the Lord. They sacrificed 12 male goats as a sin offering. 
Ezra8:36 They also handed over the king's orders. They gave them to the royal officials and governors who ruled over the land west of the Euphrates River. Then those men helped the people. They also did many things for the house of God. 
Ezra9:1 After all of those things had been done, the leaders came to me. They said, ""The people of Israel have committed sins. Even the priests and Levites have sinned. They haven't kept themselves separate from the nations that are around them. The Lord hates the practices of those nations. He hates what the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites and Jebusites do. He also hates what the Ammonites, Moabites, Egyptians and Amorites do." 
Ezra9:2 The men of Israel have gotten married to the daughters of some of those people. They've also taken some of those women for their sons to marry. So they've mixed our holy nation with the nations around us. By getting married to women who don't worship the Lord, we leaders and officials have led the way in breaking our covenant with him. We haven't been faithful to him.""" 
Ezra9:3 When I heard that, I tore my inner robe and my coat. I pulled hair from my head and beard. I was so shocked I sat down." 
Ezra9:4 Then everyone who trembled with fear because of what the God of Israel had said gathered around me. They came because the people who had returned from Babylonia had not been faithful. So I sat there in shock until the time of the evening sacrifice. 
Ezra9:5 Then I got up. I had been very sad for quite a while. My inner robe and my coat were torn. I fell down on my knees. I spread my hands out to the Lord my God. 
Ezra9:6 I prayed, ""You are my God. I'm filled with shame and dishonor. I can hardly look to you and pray. That's because our sins are piled up above our heads. Our guilt reaches all the way to the heavens." 
Ezra9:7 We are filled with it. It has been like that ever since the days of our people who lived long ago. Kings of other countries have killed many of us and our kings and priests with their swords. They've forced others to leave their own land. They've taken them away as prisoners. They've robbed others. They've made still others feel ashamed and dishonored. All of those things have happened to us because we've committed so many sins. And that's how things still are to this very day. 
Ezra9:8 But you are the Lord our God. Now you have shown us your favor for a short time. You have allowed a few of us to remain here. Your temple has given us new hope. So you have made things easier for us. You have given us a little rest from our slavery. 
Ezra9:9 We are still slaves. But you are our God. You haven't deserted us. You haven't left us in our slavery. You have been kind to us. The kings of Persia have seen it. You have given us new life to repair your temple and rebuild it. You have given us a place of safety in Judah and Jerusalem. 
Ezra9:10 You are our God. What can we say after the way you have blessed us? We said no to what you commanded us to do. 
Ezra9:11 You gave us your commands through your servants the prophets. You said, 'You are entering the land to take it as your own. The sinful practices of its people have polluted it. They have filled it with their unclean acts from one end to the other. The Lord hates all of their practices." 
Ezra9:12 So don't let your daughters get married to their sons. And don't let their daughters marry your sons. Don't make a peace treaty with them at any time. Then you will be strong. You will eat the good things the land produces. And you will leave all of it to your children as their share. They and their children after them will enjoy it forever.' 
Ezra9:13 Our evil acts and our terrible sins have brought about the things that have happened to us. You are our God. Because we sinned so much, you should have punished us even more than you have. But you have left many of your people alive." 
Ezra9:14 Suppose we don't obey your commands again. And suppose we continue to get married to people who commit sins that you hate. If we do, you will be so angry with us that you will destroy us. You won't leave us even a few people. You won't leave anyone alive." 
Ezra9:15 Lord, you are the God of Israel. You are holy. You always do what is right. Today you have left many of your people alive. Here we are with all of our guilt. You see the guilt of our sin. Because we have sinned, not one of us can stand in front of you.""" 
Ezra10:1 Ezra was praying and admitting to God that his people had sinned. He was sobbing and throwing himself down in front of the house of God. Then a large crowd gathered around him. Men, women and children were there. They too sobbed bitterly." 
Ezra10:2 Shecaniah spoke to Ezra. Shecaniah was the son of Jehiel. He belonged to the family line of Elam. Shecaniah said, ""We haven't been faithful to our God. We've gotten married to women from the nations that are around us. In spite of that, there is still hope for Israel." 
Ezra10:3 So let's make a covenant in the sight of our God. Let's promise to send away all of those women and their children. That's what you have advised us to do. Those who respect our God's commands have given us the same advice. We want to do what the Law says. 
Ezra10:4 Get up, Ezra. This matter is in your hands. Do what you need to. We will be behind you all the way. Be brave and do it.""" 
Ezra10:5 So Ezra got up. He made the leading priests and Levites and all of the people of Israel take an oath. He made them promise they would do what Shecaniah had suggested. And they took the oath. 
Ezra10:6 Then Ezra left the house of God. He went to Jehohanan's room. Jehohanan was the son of Eliashib. While Ezra was there, he didn't eat any food. He didn't drink any water. That's because he was filled with sadness. He sobbed because the people weren't faithful to the Lord's commands. Those people were the ones who had returned from Babylonia." 
Ezra10:7 Then an announcement was sent all through Judah and Jerusalem. All those who had returned were told to gather together in Jerusalem. 
Ezra10:8 They were supposed to come there before three days had passed. If they didn't, they would lose all of their property. They would also be removed from the community of those who had returned. That's what the officials and elders had decided." 
Ezra10:9 Before the three days were over, all of the men of Judah and Benjamin had gathered together in Jerusalem. It was the 20th day of the ninth month. They were sitting in the open area in front of the house of God. They were very upset by what they knew would happen. And they were upset because it was raining." 
Ezra10:10 Then the priest Ezra stood up. He said, ""You haven't been faithful to the Lord. You have gotten married to women from other lands. So you have added to Israel's guilt." 
Ezra10:11 Admit to the Lord that you have sinned. Tell the God of your people what you have done. Then do what he wants you to do. Separate yourselves from the nations that are around you. Send away your wives from other lands. 
Ezra10:12 The whole community answered with a loud voice. They said, ""You are right! We must do as you say." 
Ezra10:13 But there are a lot of people here. And it's the rainy season. So we can't stand outside. Besides, this matter can't be taken care of in just a day or two. That's because we have sinned terribly by what we've done." 
Ezra10:14 Our officials can act for the whole community. Have everyone in our towns who has married a woman from another land come at a certain time. Tell them to come together with the elders and judges of each town. Then our God will turn his burning anger away from us concerning this whole matter. 
Ezra10:15 Only a few men opposed that. They included Jonathan and Jahzeiah. Meshullam and the Levite Shabbethai joined them. Jonathan was the son of Asahel. Jahzeiah was the son of Tikvah. 
Ezra10:16 So those who had returned did what had been suggested. The priest Ezra chose some family leaders. There was one from each family group. All of them were chosen by name. They sat down to check out each case. They started on the first day of the tenth month. 
Ezra10:17 By the first day of the first month they were finished. They had handled all of the cases of the men who had gotten married to women from other lands. 
Ezra10:18 Among the family lines of the priests, here are the men who had married women from other lands. Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib and Gedaliah came from the family line of Jeshua and his brothers. Jeshua was the son of Jehozadak." 
Ezra10:19 All of them made a firm promise to send their wives away. Each of those men brought a ram from his flock as a guilt offering. 
Ezra10:20 Hanani and Zebadiah came from the family line of Immer. 
Ezra10:21 Maaseiah and Elijah came from the family line of Harim. So did Shemaiah, Jehiel and Uzziah." 
Ezra10:22 Elioenai, Maaseiah and Ishmael came from the family line of Pashhur. So did Nethanel, Jozabad and Elasah." 
Ezra10:23 Among the Levites, here are the men who had married women from other lands. There were Jozabad, Shimei and Kelaiah. There were also Pethahiah, Judah and Eliezer. Kelaiah's other name was Kelita." 
Ezra10:24 Eliashib came from the singers. Shallum, Telem and Uri came from the men who guarded the temple gates." 
Ezra10:25 Among the other Israelites, here are the men who had married women from other lands. Ramiah, Izziah, Malkijah and Mijamin came from the family line of Parosh. So did Eleazar, Malkijah and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:26 Mattaniah, Zechariah and Jehiel came from the family line of Elam. So did Abdi, Jeremoth and Elijah." 
Ezra10:26 Mattaniah, Zechariah and Jehiel came from the family line of Elam. So did Abdi, Jeremoth and Elijah." 
Ezra10:27 Elioenai, Eliashib and Mattaniah came from the family line of Zattu. So did Jeremoth, Zabad and Aziza." 
Ezra10:28 Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai and Athlai came from the family line of Bebai." 
Ezra10:29 Meshullam, Malluch and Adaiah came from the family line of Bani. So did Jashub, Sheal and Jeremoth." 
Ezra10:30 Adna, Kelal, Benaiah and Maaseiah came from the family line of Pahath-Moab. So did Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui and Manasseh." 
Ezra10:31 Eliezer, Ishijah, Malkijah, Shemaiah and Shimeon came from the family line of Harim." 
Ezra10:32 So did Benjamin, Malluch and Shemariah." 
Ezra10:33 Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad and Eliphelet came from the family line of Hashum. So did Jeremai, Manasseh and Shimei." 
Ezra10:34 Maadai, Amram and Uel came from the family line of Bani." 
Ezra10:35 So did Benaiah, Bedeiah, Keluhi," 
Ezra10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib," 
Ezra10:37 Mattaniah, Mattenai and Jaasu." 
Ezra10:38 Shimei came from the family line of Binnui. 
Ezra10:39 So did Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah," 
Ezra10:40 Macnadebai, Shashai, Sharai," 
Ezra10:41 Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah," 
Ezra10:42 Shallum, Amariah and Joseph." 
Ezra10:43 Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad and Zebina came from the family line of Nebo. So did Jaddai, Joel and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:43 Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad and Zebina came from the family line of Nebo. So did Jaddai, Joel and Benaiah." 
Ezra10:44 All of those men had married women from other lands. Some of them had even had children by those wives. 
Nehemiah1:1 These are the words of Nehemiah. He was the son of Hacaliah. I was in the safest place in Susa. I was there in the 20th year that Artaxerxes was king. It was in the month of Kislev. 
Nehemiah1:2 At that time Hanani came from Judah with some other men. He was one of my brothers. I asked him and the other men about the Jews who were left alive in Judah. They had returned from Babylonia. I also asked him about Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah1:3 He and the men who were with him said to me, ""Some of the people who returned are still alive. They are back in the land of Judah. But they are having a hard time. People are making fun of them. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down. Its gates have been burned with fire.""" 
Nehemiah1:4 When I heard about those things, I sat down and sobbed. For several days I was very sad. I didn't eat any food. And I prayed to the God of heaven." 
Nehemiah1:5 I said, ""Lord, you are the God of heaven. You are a great and wonderful God. You keep the covenant you made with those who love you and obey your commands. You show them your love." 
Nehemiah1:6 Please pay careful attention to my prayer. See how your people are suffering. Please listen to me. I'm praying to you day and night. I'm praying for the people of Israel. We Israelites have committed sins against you. All of us admit it. I and my family have also sinned against you. 
Nehemiah1:7 We've done some very evil things. We haven't obeyed the commands, rules and laws you gave your servant Moses." 
Nehemiah1:8 Remember what you told him. You said, 'If you people are not faithful, I will scatter you among the nations." 
Nehemiah1:9 But if you return to me, I will bring you back. If you obey my commands, I will gather you together again. I will bring you back from the farthest places on earth. I will bring you to the special place where I have chosen to put my Name.'" 
Nehemiah1:10 Lord, they are your people. They serve you. You used your great strength and mighty hand to set them free from Egypt." 
Nehemiah1:11 Lord, please pay careful attention to my prayer. Listen to the prayers of all of us. We take delight in bringing honor to your name. Give me success today. Help King Artaxerxes show me his favor."" I was the king's wine taster." 
Nehemiah2:1 Wine was brought in for King Artaxerxes. It was the month of Nisan in the 20th year of his rule. I got the wine and gave it to him. I hadn't been sad in front of him before. But now I was. 
Nehemiah2:2 So the king asked me, ""Why are you looking so sad? You aren't sick. You must be feeling sad deep down inside."" I was really afraid." 
Nehemiah2:3 But I said to the king, ""May you live forever! Why shouldn't I look sad? The city where my people of long ago are buried has been destroyed. And fire has burned up its gates.""" 
Nehemiah2:4 The king said to me, ""What do you want?"" I prayed to the God of heaven." 
Nehemiah2:5 Then I answered the king, ""Are you pleased with me, King Artaxerxes? If it pleases you, send me to Judah. Let me go to the city of Jerusalem. That's where my people are buried. I want to rebuild it.""" 
Nehemiah2:6 The queen was sitting beside the king. He turned and asked me, ""How long will your journey take? When will you get back?"" It pleased the king to send me. So I chose a certain time." 
Nehemiah2:7 I also said to him, ""If it pleases you, may I take some letters with me? I want to give them to the governors of the land west of the Euphrates River. Then they'll help me travel safely through their territory until I arrive in Judah." 
Nehemiah2:8 May I also have a letter to Asaph? He takes care of your forest. I want him to give me some logs so I can make beams out of them. I want to use them for the gates of the fort that is by the temple. Some of the logs will be used in the city wall. And I'll need some for the house I'm going to live in. The gracious hand of my God helped me. So the king gave me what I asked for. 
Nehemiah2:9 Then I went to the governors of the land west of the Euphrates. I gave them the king's letters. He had also sent army officers and horsemen along with me. 
Nehemiah2:10 Sanballat and Tobiah heard about what was happening. They were very upset that someone had come to work for the good of Israel's people. Sanballat was a Horonite. Tobiah was an official from Ammon. 
Nehemiah2:11 I went to Jerusalem. I stayed there for three days. 
Nehemiah2:12 Then at night I took a few men with me to check out the walls. I hadn't told anyone what my God wanted me to do for Jerusalem. There weren't any donkeys with me except the one I was riding on. 
Nehemiah2:13 That night I went out through the Valley Gate. I went toward the Jackal Well and the Dung Gate. I checked out the walls of Jerusalem. They had been broken down. I also checked the city gates. Fire had burned them up. 
Nehemiah2:14 I moved on toward the Fountain Gate and the King's Pool. But there wasn't enough room for my donkey to get through. 
Nehemiah2:15 It was still night. I went up the Kidron Valley. I kept checking the wall. Finally, I turned back. I went back in through the Valley Gate." 
Nehemiah2:16 The officials didn't know where I had gone. They didn't know what I had done either. That's because I hadn't said anything to anyone yet. I hadn't told the priests or nobles or officials. And I hadn't spoken to any others who would be rebuilding the wall. 
Nehemiah2:17 I said to them, ""You can see the trouble we're in. Jerusalem has been destroyed. Fire has burned up its gates. Come on. Let's rebuild the wall of Jerusalem. Then people won't make fun of us anymore.""" 
Nehemiah2:18 I also told them how the gracious hand of my God was helping me. And I told them what the king had said to me. They replied, ""Let's start rebuilding."" So they began that good work." 
Nehemiah2:19 But Sanballat, the Horonite, heard about it. So did Tobiah, the official from Ammon. Geshem, the Arab, heard about it too. All of them laughed at us. They made fun of us. ""What do you think you are doing?"" they asked. ""Are you turning against the king?""" 
Nehemiah2:20 I answered, ""The God of heaven will give us success. We serve him. So we'll start rebuilding the walls. But you don't have any share in Jerusalem. You don't have any claim to it. You don't have any right to worship here.""" 
Nehemiah3:1 The high priest Eliashib and the other priests went to work. They rebuilt the Sheep Gate. They set it apart to God. They put its doors in place. They continued to rebuild the wall up to the Tower of the Hundred. They set the tower apart to God. Then they continued to rebuild the wall all the way to the Tower of Hananel. 
Nehemiah3:2 Some men from Jericho rebuilt the next part of the wall. And Zaccur rebuilt the next part. He was the son of Imri. 
Nehemiah3:3 The sons of Hassenaah rebuilt the Fish Gate. They laid its beams. They put its doors and metal bolts and bars in place. 
Nehemiah3:4 Meremoth repaired the next part of the wall. He was the son of Uriah. Uriah was the son of Hakkoz. Next to Meremoth, Meshullam made some repairs. He was the son of Berekiah. Berekiah was the son of Meshezabel. Next to Meshullam, Zadok also made some repairs. He was the son of Baana." 
Nehemiah3:5 Some men from Tekoa repaired the next part of the wall. But their nobles refused to do any work at all. They didn't pay any attention to the people who were in charge of the work. 
Nehemiah3:6 Joiada and Meshullam repaired the Jeshanah Gate. Joiada was the son of Paseah. Meshullam was the son of Besodeiah. Joiada and Meshullam laid the beams of the gate. They put its doors and metal bolts and bars in place. 
Nehemiah3:7 Next to them, some men from Gibeon and Mizpah made repairs. They included Melatiah from Gibeon and Jadon from Meronoth. Those places were under the authority of the governor of the land west of the Euphrates River." 
Nehemiah3:8 Uzziel repaired the next part of the wall. He made his living by working with gold. He was the son of Harhaiah. Hananiah made repairs on the next part. He made his living by making perfume. So the wall of Jerusalem was made like new again all the way to the Broad Wall. 
Nehemiah3:9 Rephaiah repaired the next part. He was the son of Hur. Rephaiah ruled over half of the territory where Jerusalem was located. 
Nehemiah3:10 Jedaiah repaired the part of the wall that was across from his house. He was the son of Harumaph. Hattush made repairs next to Jedaiah. Hattush was the son of Hashabneiah. 
Nehemiah3:11 Malkijah and Hasshub repaired another part of the wall. They also repaired the Tower of the Ovens. Malkijah was the son of Harim. Hasshub was the son of Pahath-Moab. 
Nehemiah3:12 Shallum repaired the next part. His daughters helped him. He was the son of Hallohesh. Shallum ruled over the other half of the territory where Jerusalem was located. 
Nehemiah3:13 Hanun repaired the Valley Gate. Some people who lived in Zanoah helped him. They rebuilt it. They put its doors and metal bolts and bars in place. They also repaired 500 yards of the wall. They repaired it all the way to the Dung Gate. 
Nehemiah3:14 Malkijah repaired the Dung Gate. He was the son of Recab. Malkijah ruled over the territory where Beth Hakkerem was located. He rebuilt the gate. He put its doors and metal bolts and bars in place. 
Nehemiah3:15 Shallun repaired the Fountain Gate. He was the son of Col-Hozeh. Shallun ruled over the territory where Mizpah was located. He rebuilt the gate. He put a roof over it. And he put the doors and metal bolts and bars of the gate in place. He also repaired the wall by the Pool of Siloam. It was near the King's Garden. Shallun repaired the wall as far as the steps that go down from the City of David. 
Nehemiah3:16 Next to Shallun, Nehemiah made some repairs. He was the son of Azbuk. Nehemiah ruled over half of the territory where Beth Zur was located. He repaired the wall up to the part that was across from the tombs of David. He repaired it all the way to the man-made pool and the House of Heroes." 
Nehemiah3:17 Next to Nehemiah, some Levites made repairs. They worked under the direction of Rehum. He was the son of Bani. Next to Rehum, Hashabiah made repairs for his territory. He ruled over half of the territory where Keilah was located." 
Nehemiah3:18 Next to him, other people from that territory made some repairs. They worked under the direction of Binnui. He was the son of Henadad. Binnui ruled over the other half of the territory where Keilah was located." 
Nehemiah3:19 Next to him, Ezer repaired another part of the wall. He was the son of Jeshua. Ezer ruled over the territory where Mizpah was located. He repaired the part that was across from the place that went up to the storeroom where the weapons were kept. He repaired the wall up to the angle." 
Nehemiah3:20 Next to him, Baruch worked hard to repair another part of the wall. He was the son of Zabbai. He repaired the part from the angle to the entrance to Eliashib's house. Eliashib was high priest." 
Nehemiah3:21 Next to Baruch, Meremoth repaired another part. He was the son of Uriah. Uriah was the son of Hakkoz. Meremoth repaired the part from the entrance to Eliashib's house to the end of the house." 
Nehemiah3:22 Next to Meremoth, some priests from the surrounding area made repairs." 
Nehemiah3:23 Next to them, Benjamin and Hasshub repaired the part of the wall that was in front of their house. Next to them, Azariah repaired the part that was beside his house. He was the son of Maaseiah. Maaseiah was the son of Ananiah." 
Nehemiah3:24 Next to Azariah, Binnui made repairs on another part. Binnui was the son of Henadad. Binnui repaired the wall from Azariah's house to the angle and the corner." 
Nehemiah3:25 Palal worked across from the angle. He was the son of Uzai. Palal also worked across from the tower that was part of the upper palace. It was near the courtyard of the guard. Next to him, Pedaiah made some repairs. He was the son of Parosh." 
Nehemiah3:26 The temple servants who lived on the hill of Ophel helped him. They repaired the wall up to the part that was across from the Water Gate. It was toward the east and the palace tower. 
Nehemiah3:27 Next to the temple servants, the men from Tekoa repaired another part. They made repairs from the large palace tower to the wall of Ophel." 
Nehemiah3:28 The priests made repairs above the Horse Gate. Each priest repaired the part of the wall that was in front of his own house. 
Nehemiah3:29 Next to them, Zadok made repairs across from his house. He was the son of Immer. Next to Zadok, Shemaiah made some repairs. He was the son of Shecaniah. Shemaiah guarded the East Gate." 
Nehemiah3:30 Next to him, Hananiah and Hanun repaired another part of the wall. Hananiah was the son of Shelemiah. Hanun was the sixth son of Zalaph. Next to Hananiah and Hanun, Meshullam made some repairs. He was the son of Berekiah. Meshullam repaired the part that was across from where he lived." 
Nehemiah3:31 Next to him, Malkijah made some repairs. He made his living by working with gold. He repaired the wall up to the house of the temple servants and the traders. It was across from the Inspection Gate. He also repaired the wall as far as the room that was above the corner." 
Nehemiah3:32 The traders and those who made their living by working with gold made some repairs. They repaired the wall from the room above the corner to the Sheep Gate. 
Nehemiah4:1 Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall. So he burned with anger. He became very upset. He made fun of the Jews. 
Nehemiah4:2 He spoke to his friends and the army of Samaria. He said, ""What are those Jews trying to do? Can they make their city wall like new again? Will they offer sacrifices? Can they finish everything in a single day? The stones from their city wall and buildings are piled up like trash. And everything has been badly burned. Can they use those stones to rebuild everything again?""" 
Nehemiah4:3 Tobiah from Ammon was at Sanballat's side. He said, ""What are they building? They're putting up a stone wall. But suppose a fox climbs on top of it. Even that will break it down!""" 
Nehemiah4:4 I prayed to God. I said, ""Our God, please listen to our prayer. Some people hate us. They're making fun of us. So let others make fun of them. Let them be carried off like stolen goods. Let them be taken to another country as prisoners." 
Nehemiah4:5 Don't hide your eyes from their guilt. Don't forgive their sins. They have made fun of the builders. 
Nehemiah4:6 So we rebuilt the wall. We repaired it until all of it was half as high as we wanted it to be. The people worked with all their heart. 
Nehemiah4:7 But Sanballat and Tobiah heard that Jerusalem's walls continued to be repaired. The Arabs and some people from Ammon heard the same thing. Some men from Ashdod heard about it too. They heard that the gaps in the wall were being filled in. So they burned with anger. 
Nehemiah4:8 All of them made evil plans to come and fight against Jerusalem. They wanted to stir up trouble against it. 
Nehemiah4:9 But we prayed to our God. We put guards on duty day and night to watch out for danger. 
Nehemiah4:10 During that time, the people in Judah spoke up. They said, ""The workers are getting weaker and weaker all the time. Broken stones are piled up everywhere. They are in our way. So we can't rebuild the wall.""" 
Nehemiah4:11 And our enemies said, ""We will be right there among them. We'll kill them. We'll put an end to their work. We'll do it before they even know it or see us.""" 
Nehemiah4:12 Then the Jews who lived near our enemies came to us. They told us ten times, ""No matter where you are, they'll attack us.""" 
Nehemiah4:13 So I stationed some people behind the lowest parts of the wall. That's where our enemies could easily attack us. I stationed the people family by family. They had their swords, spears and bows with them." 
Nehemiah4:14 I looked things over. Then I stood up and spoke to the nobles, the officials and the rest of the people. I said, ""Don't be afraid of your enemies. Remember the Lord. He is great and powerful. So fight for your brothers and sisters. Fight for your sons and daughters. Fight for your wives and homes.""" 
Nehemiah4:15 Our enemies heard that we knew what they were trying to do. They heard that God had blocked their evil plans. So all of us returned to the wall. Each of us did our own work. 
Nehemiah4:16 From that day on, half of my men did the work. The other half were given spears, shields, bows and armor. The officers stationed themselves behind all of the people of Judah." 
Nehemiah4:17 The people continued to build the wall. Those who carried supplies did their work with one hand. They held a weapon in the other hand. 
Nehemiah4:18 Each of the builders wore his sword at his side as he worked. But the man who blew the trumpet stayed with me. 
Nehemiah4:19 Then I spoke to the nobles, the officials and the rest of the people. I said, ""This is a big job. It covers a lot of territory. We're separated too far from one another along the wall." 
Nehemiah4:20 When you hear the sound of the trumpet, join us at that location. Our God will fight for us!""" 
Nehemiah4:21 So we continued the work. Half of the men held spears. We worked from the first light of sunrise until the stars came out at night. 
Nehemiah4:22 At that time I also spoke to the people. I told them, ""Have every man and his helper stay inside Jerusalem at night. Then they can guard us at night. And they can work during the day.""" 
Nehemiah4:23 My relatives and I didn't take our clothes off. My men and the guards didn't take theirs off either. Each man kept his weapon with him, even when he went to get water." 
Nehemiah5:1 Some men and their wives cried out against their Jewish brothers and sisters. 
Nehemiah5:2 Some of them were saying, ""We and our sons and daughters have increased our numbers. Now there are many of us. We have to get some grain so we can eat and stay alive.""" 
Nehemiah5:3 Others were saying, ""We're being forced to sell our fields, vineyards and homes. We have to do it to buy grain. There isn't enough food for everyone.""" 
Nehemiah5:4 Still others were saying, ""We've had to borrow money. We needed it to pay the king's tax on our fields and vineyards." 
Nehemiah5:5 We belong to the same family lines as the rest of our people. Our sons and daughters are as good as theirs. But we've had to sell them off as slaves. Some of our daughters have already been made slaves. But we can't do anything about it. That's because our fields and vineyards now belong to others. 
Nehemiah5:6 I heard them when they cried out. And I burned with anger when I heard what they were saying. 
Nehemiah5:7 I thought it over for a while. Then I brought charges against the nobles and officials. I told them, ""You are forcing your own people to pay too much interest!"" So I called together a large group of people to handle the matter." 
Nehemiah5:8 I said, ""Our Jewish brothers and sisters were sold to other nations. We've done everything we could to buy them back and bring them home. But look at what you are doing! You are actually selling your own people! Now we'll have to buy them back too!"" The people kept quiet. They couldn't think of anything to say." 
Nehemiah5:9 So I continued, ""What you are doing isn't right. Shouldn't you show respect for our God? Shouldn't you live in a way that will keep our enemies from making fun of us?" 
Nehemiah5:10 I'm lending the people money and grain. So are my relatives and my men. But you must stop charging too much interest! 
Nehemiah5:11 Give the people's fields back to them. Give them back their vineyards, olive groves and houses. Do it right away. You have charged them too much. Give everything back to them. Give them back the one percent on the money, grain, fresh wine and olive oil you have charged them.""" 
Nehemiah5:12 We'll give it back,"" they said. ""And we won't require anything more from them. We'll do exactly as you say."" Then I sent for the priests. I made the nobles and officials take an oath to do what they had promised." 
Nehemiah5:13 I also shook out my pockets and emptied them. I said, ""Some of you might decide not to keep the promise you have made. If that happens, may God shake you out of your house! May he empty you of everything you own! May you be left with nothing at all!"" The whole community said, ""Amen."" They praised the Lord. And the leaders did what they had promised to do." 
Nehemiah5:14 And that's not all. I was appointed as governor of Judah in the 20th year that Artaxerxes was king of Persia. I remained in that position until his 32nd year. During those 12 years, I and my relatives didn't eat the food that was provided for my table." 
Nehemiah5:15 But there had been governors before me. They had put a heavy load on the people. They had taken a pound of silver from each of them. They had also taken food and wine from them. Their officials had acted like high and mighty rulers over them. But I have great respect for God. So I didn't act like that. 
Nehemiah5:16 Instead, I spent all of my time working on this wall. All of my men were gathered there to work on it too. We didn't receive any land for ourselves." 
Nehemiah5:17 Many people ate at my table. They included 150 Jews and officials. They also included leaders who came to us from the nations that were around us. 
Nehemiah5:18 Each day one ox, six of the best sheep and some birds were prepared for me. Every ten days plenty of wine of all kinds was brought in as well. In spite of all that, I never asked for the food that was provided for my table. That's because the people were already paying too many taxes." 
Nehemiah5:19 You are my God. Please remember me. Show me your favor. Keep in mind everything I've done for these people. 
Nehemiah6:1 Sanballat, Tobiah and Geshem, the Arab, heard about what I had done. So did the rest of our enemies. All of them heard I had rebuilt the wall. In fact, they heard there weren't any gaps left in it. But up to that time I hadn't put up the gates at the main entrances to the city." 
Nehemiah6:2 Sanballat and Geshem sent me a message. They said, ""Come. Let's talk with one another. Let's meet in one of the villages on the flatlands of Ono."" But they were planning to harm me." 
Nehemiah6:3 So I sent messengers to them with my answer. I replied, ""I'm working on a huge project. So I can't get away. Why should the work stop while I leave it? Why should I go down and talk with you?""" 
Nehemiah6:4 They sent me the same message four times. And I gave them the same answer each time. 
Nehemiah6:5 Sanballat sent his helper to me a fifth time. He brought the same message. He was carrying a letter that wasn't sealed. 
Nehemiah6:6 It said, ""A report is going around among the nations. Geshem says it's true. We hear that you and the other Jews are planning to turn against the Persian rulers. And that's why you are building the wall. ""It's also reported that you are about to become their king." 
Nehemiah6:7 People say that you have even appointed prophets to make an announcement about you. In Jerusalem they are going to say, 'Judah has a king!' That report will get back to the king of Persia. So come. Let's talk things over.""" 
Nehemiah6:8 I sent a reply to Sanballat. I said, ""What you are saying isn't really happening. You are just making it up.""" 
Nehemiah6:9 All of them were trying to frighten us. They thought, ""Their hands will get too weak to do the work. So it won't be completed."" But I prayed to God. I said, ""Make my hands stronger.""" 
Nehemiah6:10 One day I went to Shemaiah's house. He was the son of Delaiah. Delaiah was the son of Mehetabel. Shemaiah had shut himself up in his home. He said, ""Let's go to God's house. Let's meet inside the temple. Let's close the temple doors. Some people want to kill you. They will come at night.""" 
Nehemiah6:11 But I said, ""Should a man like me run away? Should someone like me go into the temple just to save his life? No! I won't go!""" 
Nehemiah6:12 I realized that God hadn't sent Shemaiah. Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him. That's why he had prophesied lies about me. 
Nehemiah6:13 They had hired him to scare me. They wanted me to commit a sin by doing what he said. That would give me a bad name in the community. People would find fault with me and my work. 
Nehemiah6:14 You are my God. Remember what Tobiah and Sanballat have done. Also remember the prophet Noadiah. She and the rest of the prophets have been trying to scare me. 
Nehemiah6:15 So the city wall was completed on the 25th day of the month of Elul. It was finished in 52 days. 
Nehemiah6:16 All of our enemies heard about it. All of the nations that were around us became afraid. They weren't sure of themselves anymore. They realized that our God had helped us finish the work. 
Nehemiah6:17 In those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Tobiah. And replies from Tobiah came back to them. 
Nehemiah6:18 Many people in Judah had taken an oath that they would be faithful to him. That's because he was Shecaniah's son-in-law. Shecaniah was the son of Arah. Tobiah's son Jehohanan had married Meshullam's daughter. Meshullam was the son of Berekiah. 
Nehemiah6:19 Tobiah's friends kept reporting to me the good things he did. They also kept telling him what I said. And Tobiah himself sent letters to scare me. 
Nehemiah7:1 The wall had been rebuilt. I had put up the gates at the main entrances to the city. Those who guarded the gates were appointed to their positions. So were the singers and Levites. 
Nehemiah7:2 I put my brother Hanani in charge of Jerusalem. Hananiah helped him. Hananiah was commander of the fort that was by the temple. Hanani was an honest man. He had more respect for God than most people do. 
Nehemiah7:3 I said to Hanani and Hananiah, ""Don't open the gates of Jerusalem until the hottest time of the day. Tell the men who guard the gates to shut them before they go off duty. Make sure they lock them up tight. Also appoint as guards some people who live in Jerusalem. Station some of them at their appointed places. Station others near their own homes.""" 
Nehemiah7:4 Jerusalem was large. It had a lot of room. But only a few people lived there. The houses hadn't been rebuilt yet. 
Nehemiah7:5 So my God stirred me up to gather the people together. He also told me to gather the nobles and officials together with them. He wanted me to list them by families. I found the family history of those who had been the first to return. Here is what I found written in it. 
Nehemiah7:6 Nebuchadnezzar had taken many Jews away from the land of Judah. He had forced them to go to Babylonia as prisoners. Now they returned to Jerusalem and Judah. All of them went back to their own towns. Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. 
Nehemiah7:7 The leaders of the Jews included Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah and Nahamani. They also included Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum and Baanah. Here is a list of the men of Israel who returned home." 
Nehemiah7:8 There were 2,172 from the family line of Parosh." 
Nehemiah7:9 There were 372 from Shephatiah. 
Nehemiah7:10 There were 652 from Arah. 
Nehemiah7:11 There were 2,818 from Pahath-Moab through the family line of Jeshua and Joab." 
Nehemiah7:12 There were 1,254 from Elam." 
Nehemiah7:13 There were 845 from Zattu. 
Nehemiah7:14 There were 760 from Zaccai. 
Nehemiah7:15 There were 648 from Binnui. 
Nehemiah7:16 There were 628 from Bebai. 
Nehemiah7:17 There were 2,322 from Azgad." 
Nehemiah7:18 There were 667 from Adonikam. 
Nehemiah7:19 There were 2,067 from Bigvai." 
Nehemiah7:20 There were 655 from Adin. 
Nehemiah7:21 There were 98 from Ater through the family line of Hezekiah. 
Nehemiah7:22 There were 328 from Hashum. 
Nehemiah7:23 There were 324 from Bezai. 
Nehemiah7:24 There were 112 from Hariph. 
Nehemiah7:25 There were 95 from Gibeon. 
Nehemiah7:26 There were 188 from the men of Bethlehem and Netophah. 
Nehemiah7:27 There were 128 from Anathoth. 
Nehemiah7:28 There were 42 from Beth Azmaveth. 
Nehemiah7:29 There were 743 from Kiriath Jearim, Kephirah and Beeroth." 
Nehemiah7:30 There were 621 from Ramah and Geba. 
Nehemiah7:31 There were 122 from Micmash. 
Nehemiah7:32 There were 123 from Bethel and Ai. 
Nehemiah7:33 There were 52 from Nebo. 
Nehemiah7:34 There were 1,254 from the other Elam." 
Nehemiah7:35 There were 320 from Harim. 
Nehemiah7:36 There were 345 from Jericho. 
Nehemiah7:37 There were 721 from Lod, Hadid and Ono." 
Nehemiah7:38 There were 3,930 from Senaah." 
Nehemiah7:39 Here is a list of the priests. There were 973 from the family line of Jedaiah through the line of Jeshua. 
Nehemiah7:40 There were 1,052 from Immer." 
Nehemiah7:41 There were 1,247 from Pashhur." 
Nehemiah7:42 There were 1,017 from Harim." 
Nehemiah7:43 The Levites belonged to the family line of Jeshua through Kadmiel through the line of Hodaviah. The total number of men was 74. 
Nehemiah7:44 The singers belonged to the family line of Asaph. The total number of men was 148. 
Nehemiah7:45 The men who guarded the temple gates belonged to the family lines of Shallum, Ater, Talmon, Akkub, Hatita and Shobai. The total number of men was 138." 
Nehemiah7:46 Here is a list of the members of the family lines of the temple servants. Ziha, Hasupha, Tabbaoth," 
Nehemiah7:47 Keros, Sia, Padon," 
Nehemiah7:48 Lebana, Hagaba, Shalmai," 
Nehemiah7:49 Hanan, Giddel, Gahar," 
Nehemiah7:50 Reaiah, Rezin, Nekoda," 
Nehemiah7:51 Gazzam, Uzza, Paseah," 
Nehemiah7:52 Besai, Meunim, Nephussim," 
Nehemiah7:53 Bakbuk, Hakupha, Harhur," 
Nehemiah7:54 Bazluth, Mehida, Harsha," 
Nehemiah7:55 Barkos, Sisera, Temah," 
Nehemiah7:56 Neziah, Hatipha" 
Nehemiah7:57 Here is a list of the members of the family lines of the servants of Solomon. Sotai, Sophereth, Perida," 
Nehemiah7:58 Jaala, Darkon, Giddel," 
Nehemiah7:59 Shephatiah, Hattil, Pokereth-Hazzebaim, Amon" 
Nehemiah7:60 The total number of the members of the family lines of the temple servants and the servants of Solomon was 392. 
Nehemiah7:61 Many people came up to Judah from the towns of Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Kerub, Addon and Immer. But they weren't able to prove that their families belonged to the people of Israel." 
Nehemiah7:62 There were 642 of them from the family lines of Delaiah, Tobiah and Nekoda." 
Nehemiah7:63 Here is a list of the members of the family lines of the priests. They were Hobaiah, Hakkoz and Barzillai. Barzillai had married a daughter of Barzillai from Gilead. So he was also called Barzillai." 
Nehemiah7:64 The priests looked for their family records. But they couldn't find them. So they weren't able to serve as priests. They weren't clean. 
Nehemiah7:65 The governor gave them an order. He told them not to eat any of the most sacred food. They had to wait until there was a priest who could use the Urim and Thummim to get decisions from the Lord. 
Nehemiah7:66 The total number of the entire group that returned was 42,360." 
Nehemiah7:67 That didn't include their 7,337 male and female slaves. There were also 245 male and female singers." 
Nehemiah7:68 And there were 736 horses, 245 mules," 
Nehemiah7:69 435 camels and 6,720 donkeys." 
Nehemiah7:70 Some of the family leaders helped pay for the work. The governor gave 19 pounds of gold to be added to the temple treasure. He also gave 50 bowls and 530 sets of clothes for the priests. 
Nehemiah7:71 Some of the family leaders gave 375 pounds of gold for the work. They also gave one and a third tons of silver. All of that was added to the temple treasure. 
Nehemiah7:72 The rest of the people gave a total of 375 pounds of gold and one and a fourth tons of silver. They also gave 67 sets of clothes for the priests. 
Nehemiah7:73 The priests and Levites settled down in their own towns. So did the singers, the temple servants and the men who guarded the gates. The rest of the people of Israel also settled in their own towns. The people of Israel had settled down in their towns. In the seventh month," 
Nehemiah8:1 all of them gathered together. They went to the open area in front of the Water Gate. They told Ezra to bring out the Scroll of the Law of Moses. The Lord had given Israel that law so they would obey him. Ezra was a teacher of the law. 
Nehemiah8:1 all of them gathered together. They went to the open area in front of the Water Gate. They told Ezra to bring out the Scroll of the Law of Moses. The Lord had given Israel that law so they would obey him. Ezra was a teacher of the law. 
Nehemiah8:2 The priest Ezra brought the Law out to the whole community. It was the first day of the seventh month. The group was made up of men and women and everyone who was old enough to understand what Ezra was going to read. 
Nehemiah8:2 The priest Ezra brought the Law out to the whole community. It was the first day of the seventh month. The group was made up of men and women and everyone who was old enough to understand what Ezra was going to read. 
Nehemiah8:3 He read the Law to them from sunrise until noon. He did it as he faced the open area in front of the Water Gate. He read it to the men, women and others who could understand. And all of the people paid careful attention as Ezra was reading the Scroll of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:3 He read the Law to them from sunrise until noon. He did it as he faced the open area in front of the Water Gate. He read it to the men, women and others who could understand. And all of the people paid careful attention as Ezra was reading the Scroll of the Law." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra, the teacher, stood on a high wooden stage. It had been built for the occasion. Mattithiah, Shema and Anaiah stood at his right side. So did Uriah, Hilkiah and Maaseiah. Pedaiah, Mishael and Malkijah stood at his left side. So did Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah and Meshullam." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra, the teacher, stood on a high wooden stage. It had been built for the occasion. Mattithiah, Shema and Anaiah stood at his right side. So did Uriah, Hilkiah and Maaseiah. Pedaiah, Mishael and Malkijah stood at his left side. So did Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah and Meshullam." 
Nehemiah8:4 Ezra, the teacher, stood on a high wooden stage. It had been built for the occasion. Mattithiah, Shema and Anaiah stood at his right side. So did Uriah, Hilkiah and Maaseiah. Pedaiah, Mishael and Malkijah stood at his left side. So did Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah and Meshullam." 
Nehemiah8:5 Ezra opened the scroll. All of the people could see him. That's because he was standing above them. As he opened the scroll, the people stood up." 
Nehemiah8:5 Ezra opened the scroll. All of the people could see him. That's because he was standing above them. As he opened the scroll, the people stood up." 
Nehemiah8:6 Ezra praised the Lord. He is the great God. All of the people lifted up their hands. They said, ""Amen! Amen!"" Then they bowed down. They turned their faces toward the ground. And they worshiped the Lord." 
Nehemiah8:6 Ezra praised the Lord. He is the great God. All of the people lifted up their hands. They said, ""Amen! Amen!"" Then they bowed down. They turned their faces toward the ground. And they worshiped the Lord." 
Nehemiah8:7 The Levites taught the Law to the people. They remained standing while the Levites taught them. The Levites who were there included Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai and Hodiah. They also included Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan and Pelaiah." 
Nehemiah8:8 All of those Levites read parts of the Scroll of the Law of God to the people. They made it clear to them. They told them what it meant. So the people were able to understand what was being read. 
Nehemiah8:9 Then Nehemiah and Ezra spoke up. So did the Levites who were teaching the people. All of those men said to the people, ""This day is set apart to honor the Lord your God. So don't sob. Don't be sad."" All of the people had been sobbing as they listened to the words of the Law. Nehemiah was governor. Ezra was a priest and a teacher of the law." 
Nehemiah8:9 Then Nehemiah and Ezra spoke up. So did the Levites who were teaching the people. All of those men said to the people, ""This day is set apart to honor the Lord your God. So don't sob. Don't be sad."" All of the people had been sobbing as they listened to the words of the Law. Nehemiah was governor. Ezra was a priest and a teacher of the law." 
Nehemiah8:10 Nehemiah said, ""Go and enjoy some good food and sweet drinks. Send some of it to those who don't have any. This day is set apart to honor our Lord. So don't be sad. The joy of the Lord makes you strong.""" 
Nehemiah8:11 The Levites calmed all of the people down. They said, ""Be quiet. This is a sacred day. So don't be sad.""" 
Nehemiah8:12 Then all of the people went away to eat and drink. They shared their food with others. They celebrated with great joy. Now they understood the words they had heard. That's because everything had been explained to them. 
Nehemiah8:13 All of the family leaders gathered around Ezra, the teacher. So did the priests and Levites. All of them paid attention to the words of the Law. It was the second day of the month." 
Nehemiah8:13 All of the family leaders gathered around Ezra, the teacher. So did the priests and Levites. All of them paid attention to the words of the Law. It was the second day of the month." 
Nehemiah8:14 The Lord had given the Law through Moses. He wanted the people of Israel to obey it. It is written there that they were supposed to live in booths during the Feast of Booths. That Feast was celebrated in the seventh month. 
Nehemiah8:15 They were also supposed to spread the message all through their towns and in Jerusalem. They were supposed to announce, ""Go out into the central hill country. Bring back some branches from olive and wild olive trees. Also bring some from myrtle, palm and shade trees. Use the branches to make booths.""" 
Nehemiah8:16 So the people went out and brought some branches back. They built themselves booths on their own roofs. They made them in their courtyards. They put them up in the courtyards of the house of God. They built them in the open area in front of the Water Gate. And they built them in the open area in front of the Gate of Ephraim. 
Nehemiah8:17 All those who had returned from Babylonia made booths. They lived in them during the Feast of Booths. They hadn't celebrated the Feast with so much joy for a long time. In fact, they had never celebrated it like that from the days of Joshua, the son of Nun, until that very day. So their joy was very great." 
Nehemiah8:17 All those who had returned from Babylonia made booths. They lived in them during the Feast of Booths. They hadn't celebrated the Feast with so much joy for a long time. In fact, they had never celebrated it like that from the days of Joshua, the son of Nun, until that very day. So their joy was very great." 
Nehemiah8:18 Day after day, Ezra read parts of the Scroll of the Law of God to them. He read it out loud from the first day to the last. They celebrated the Feast of Booths for seven days. On the eighth day they gathered together. They followed the required rules for celebrating the Feast." 
Nehemiah8:18 Day after day, Ezra read parts of the Scroll of the Law of God to them. He read it out loud from the first day to the last. They celebrated the Feast of Booths for seven days. On the eighth day they gathered together. They followed the required rules for celebrating the Feast." 
Nehemiah9:1 It was the 24th day of the seventh month. The people of Israel gathered together again. They didn't eat any food. They wore black clothes. They put dust on their heads. 
Nehemiah9:2 The people of Israel separated themselves from everyone else. They stood and admitted they had sinned. They also admitted that their people before them had done evil things. 
Nehemiah9:3 They stood where they were. They listened while the Levites read parts of the Scroll of the Law of the Lord their God. They listened for a fourth of the day. They spent another fourth of the day admitting their sins. They also worshiped the Lord their God. 
Nehemiah9:4 The Levites stood on the stairs. They included Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel and Shebaniah. They also included Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani and Kenani. With loud voices they called out to the Lord their God." 
Nehemiah9:5 Then some Levites spoke up. They included Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani and Hashabneiah. They also included Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah and Pethahiah. They said to the people, ""Stand up. Praise the Lord your God. He lives for ever and ever!"" So the people said, ""Lord, may your glorious name be praised. May it be lifted high above every other name that is blessed and praised." 
Nehemiah9:6 You are the one and only Lord. You made the heavens. You made even the highest heavens. You created all of the stars in the sky. You created the earth and everything that is on it. And you made the oceans and everything that is in them. You give life to everything. Every living being in heaven worships you. 
Nehemiah9:7 You are the Lord God. You chose Abram. You brought him out of Ur in Babylonia. You named him Abraham. 
Nehemiah9:8 You knew that his heart was faithful to you. And you made a covenant with him. You promised to give to his children after him a land of their own. It was the land of the Canaanites, Hittites and Amorites. The Perizzites, Jebusites and Girgashites also lived there. You have kept your promise. That's because you always do what is right and fair." 
Nehemiah9:9 You saw how our people suffered long ago in Egypt. You heard them cry out to you at the Red Sea. 
Nehemiah9:10 You did miraculous signs and wonders against Pharaoh. You sent plagues on all of his officials. In fact, you sent them on all of the people of Egypt. You knew how they treated our people. They looked down on them. But you made a name for yourself. That name remains to this very day." 
Nehemiah9:11 You parted the Red Sea for the people of Israel. They passed through it on dry ground. But you threw into the sea those who chased them. They sank down like a stone into the mighty waters. 
Nehemiah9:12 By day you led them with a pillar of cloud. At night you led them with a pillar of fire. It gave them light to show them the way you wanted them to go. 
Nehemiah9:13 You came down on Mount Sinai. From heaven you spoke to our people. You gave them rules and laws. Those laws are right and fair. You gave them orders and commands that are good. 
Nehemiah9:14 You taught them about your holy Sabbath day. You gave them commands, orders and laws. You did it through your servant Moses." 
Nehemiah9:15 When the people were hungry, you gave them bread from heaven. When they were thirsty, you brought them water out of a rock. ""You told them to go into the land of Canaan. You told them to take it as their own. It was the land you had promised to give them. You had even raised your hand and taken an oath to do it." 
Nehemiah9:16 But our people before us became proud and stubborn. They didn't obey your commands. 
Nehemiah9:17 They refused to listen to you. They forgot the miracles you had done among them. So they became stubborn. When they refused to obey you, they appointed a leader for themselves. They wanted to go back to being slaves in Egypt. But you are a God who forgives. You are gracious. You are tender and kind. You are slow to get angry. You are full of love. So you didn't desert them." 
Nehemiah9:18 They made for themselves a metal statue of a god that looked like a calf. They said, 'Here is your god. He brought you up out of Egypt.' And they did evil things that dishonored you. But you still didn't desert them." 
Nehemiah9:19 Because you loved them so much, you didn't leave them in the desert. During the day the pillar of cloud didn't stop guiding them on their path. At night the pillar of fire didn't stop shining on the way you wanted them to go." 
Nehemiah9:20 You gave them your good Spirit to teach them. You didn't hold back your manna from their mouths. And you gave them water when they were thirsty. 
Nehemiah9:21 For 40 years you took good care of them in the desert. They had everything they needed. Their clothes didn't wear out. And their feet didn't swell up. 
Nehemiah9:22 You gave them kingdoms and nations. You even gave them lands far away. They took over the country of Sihon. He was king of Heshbon. They also took over the country of Og. He was king of Bashan. 
Nehemiah9:23 You gave them as many children as there are stars in the sky. You told their parents to enter the land. You told them to take it over. And you brought their children into it. 
Nehemiah9:24 Their children went into the land. They took it as their own. You brought the people of Canaan under Israel's control. The Canaanites lived in the land. But you handed them over to Israel. You also handed their kings and the other nations in the land over to Israel. You allowed Israel to deal with them just as they wanted to. 
Nehemiah9:25 Your people captured cities that had high walls around them. They also took over the rich land in Canaan. They took houses that were filled with all kinds of good things. They took over wells that had already been dug. They took many vineyards, olive groves and fruit trees. They ate until they were very full and satisfied. They were filled with joy because you were so good to them." 
Nehemiah9:26 But they didn't obey you. Instead, they turned against you. They turned their backs on your law. They killed your prophets. The prophets had warned them to turn back to you. But they did very evil things that dishonored you." 
Nehemiah9:27 So you handed them over to their enemies, who beat them down. Then they cried out to you. From heaven you heard them. You loved them very much. So you sent leaders to help them. The leaders saved them from the powerful hand of their enemies." 
Nehemiah9:28 But as soon as the people were enjoying peace and rest again, they did what was evil in your sight. Then you handed them over to their enemies. So their enemies ruled over them. When they cried out to you again, you heard them from heaven. You loved them very much. So you saved them time after time." 
Nehemiah9:29 You warned them to obey your law again. But they became proud. They didn't obey your commands. They sinned against your rules. Anyone who obeys them will live by them. But the people didn't care about that. They turned their backs on you. They became very stubborn. They refused to listen to you. 
Nehemiah9:30 For many years you put up with them. By your Spirit you warned them through your prophets. In spite of that, they didn't pay any attention. So you handed them over to the nations that were around them." 
Nehemiah9:31 But you loved them very much. So you didn't put an end to them. You didn't desert them. That's because you are a gracious God. You are tender and kind. 
Nehemiah9:32 Our God, you are great, mighty and wonderful. You keep the covenant you made with us. You show us your love. So don't let all of our suffering seem like a small thing in your sight. We've suffered greatly. So have our kings and leaders. So have our priests and prophets. Our people who lived long ago also suffered. And all of your people are suffering right now. In fact, we've been suffering from the time of the kings of Assyria until today." 
Nehemiah9:33 In spite of everything that has happened to us, you have been fair. You have been faithful in what you have done. But we did what was wrong." 
Nehemiah9:34 Our kings and leaders didn't follow your law. Our priests and our people before us didn't follow it either. They didn't pay any attention to your commands. They didn't listen to the warnings you gave them. 
Nehemiah9:35 They didn't serve you. They didn't turn from their evil ways. They didn't obey you even when they had a kingdom. You were very good to them. And they enjoyed it. You gave them a rich land. It had plenty of room in it. But they still didn't serve you. 
Nehemiah9:36 Now look at us. We are slaves today. We're slaves in the land you gave our people long ago. You gave it to them so they could eat its fruit and the other good things it produces. 
Nehemiah9:37 But we have sinned against you. So its great harvest goes to the kings of Persia. You have placed them over us. They rule over our bodies and cattle just as they please. And we are suffering terribly. 
Nehemiah9:38 So we are making a firm agreement. We're writing it down. Our leaders are stamping it with their seals. And so are our Levites and priests. 
Nehemiah10:1 Here are the names of those who stamped the agreement with their seals. The governor Nehemiah, the son of Hacaliah Zedekiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah," 
Nehemiah10:3 Pashhur, Amariah, Malkijah," 
Nehemiah10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch," 
Nehemiah10:7 Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin," 
Nehemiah10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah They were the priests." 
Nehemiah10:9 Here are the names of the Levites. Jeshua, the son of Azaniah Binnui, one of the sons of Henadad Kadmiel" 
Nehemiah10:10 Here are the names of those who helped them. Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan," 
Nehemiah10:11 Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah," 
Nehemiah10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah," 
Nehemiah10:13 Hodiah, Bani, Beninu" 
Nehemiah10:14 Here are the names of the leaders of the people. Parosh, Pahath-Moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani," 
Nehemiah10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai," 
Nehemiah10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin," 
Nehemiah10:17 Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur," 
Nehemiah10:18 Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai," 
Nehemiah10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai," 
Nehemiah10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir," 
Nehemiah10:21 Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua," 
Nehemiah10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah," 
Nehemiah10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub," 
Nehemiah10:24 Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek," 
Nehemiah10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah," 
Nehemiah10:26 Ahiah, Hanan, Anan," 
Nehemiah10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah" 
Nehemiah10:28 The rest of the people gathered together. They included the priests, the Levites and the men who guarded the gates. They included the singers and temple servants. They also included all those who separated themselves from the surrounding nations to obey the Law of God. All of those men brought their wives with them. And they brought all of their sons and daughters who were old enough to understand what was being agreed to." 
Nehemiah10:29 All of the men joined the nobles of their people. They made a firm agreement. They put themselves under a curse and took an oath. They promised to follow the Law of God. It had been given through Moses, the servant of God. They promised to obey carefully all of the commands, rules and laws of the Lord our Lord." 
Nehemiah10:30 The priests, Levites and people said, ""We promise not to give our daughters to be married to men from the nations that are around us. And we promise not to let their daughters get married to our sons." 
Nehemiah10:31 The people around us will bring goods and grain to sell on the Sabbath day. But we won't buy anything from them on the Sabbath. In fact, we won't buy anything from them on any holy day. Every seventh year we won't farm the land. And we'll forgive people what they owe us." 
Nehemiah10:32 We will be accountable for carrying out the commands for serving in the house of our God. Each of us will give an eighth of an ounce of silver every year. 
Nehemiah10:33 It will pay for the holy bread that is placed on the table in the temple. It will pay for the regular grain offerings and burnt offerings. It will pay for the offerings on the Sabbath days. It will pay for the offerings at the New Moon Feasts and appointed feasts. It will pay for the holy offerings. It will be used for sin offerings to pay for the sin of Israel. It will also pay for everything else that needs to be done at the house of our God. 
Nehemiah10:34 We are the priests, Levites and people. We have cast lots to decide when each of our families should bring a gift of wood to the house of our God. They will bring it at certain appointed times every year. The wood will be burned on the altar of the Lord our God. That's what the Law requires." 
Nehemiah10:35 We will also be accountable for bringing the first share of our crops each year. And we'll bring the first share of every fruit tree. We'll bring them to the Lord's house. 
Nehemiah10:36 Each of us will bring our oldest son to the priests who serve there. We'll also bring the male animals that were born first to their mothers among our cattle, herds and flocks. We'll bring them to the house of our God. That's what the Law requires." 
Nehemiah10:37 We will also bring the first part of the meal we grind. We'll bring the first of our grain offerings. We'll bring the first share of fruit from all of our trees. And we'll bring the first share of our olive oil and fresh wine. We'll give all of those things to the priests. They'll put them in the storerooms of the house of our God. And we'll give a tenth of our crops to the Levites. They collect the tenth shares. They do it in all of the towns where we work. 
Nehemiah10:38 A priest from Aaron's family line must go with the Levites when they receive the tenth shares. And the Levites must bring a tenth of those shares up to the house of our God. They must put it in the rooms where the treasures are stored. 
Nehemiah10:39 The people of Israel, including the Levites, must bring their gifts. They must bring grain, olive oil and fresh wine. They must put them in the storerooms where the articles for the temple are kept. That's where the priests stay when they are serving at the temple. The singers and the men who guard the gates also stay there. ""We won't forget to take care of the house of our God.""" 
Nehemiah11:1 The leaders of the people settled down in Jerusalem. The rest of the people cast lots. They did it to choose one person out of every ten. That person was brought to live in the holy city of Jerusalem. The other nine had to stay in their own towns. 
Nehemiah11:2 The people praised all those who agreed to live in Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah11:3 Here are the leaders from different parts of the country who settled down in Jerusalem. Some Israelites, priests and Levites lived in the towns of Judah. So did some temple servants and some members of the family lines of Solomon's servants. All of them lived on their own property in the towns of Judah." 
Nehemiah11:4 At the same time, other people from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin lived in Jerusalem. Here are the leaders from the family line of Judah. There was Athaiah. He was the son of Uzziah. Uzziah was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah was the son of Amariah. Amariah was the son of Shephatiah. Shephatiah was the son of Mahalalel. Mahalalel belonged to the family line of Perez." 
Nehemiah11:4 At the same time, other people from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin lived in Jerusalem. Here are the leaders from the family line of Judah. There was Athaiah. He was the son of Uzziah. Uzziah was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah was the son of Amariah. Amariah was the son of Shephatiah. Shephatiah was the son of Mahalalel. Mahalalel belonged to the family line of Perez." 
Nehemiah11:5 There was also Maaseiah. He was the son of Baruch. Baruch was the son of Col-Hozeh. Col-Hozeh was the son of Hazaiah. Hazaiah was the son of Adaiah. Adaiah was the son of Joiarib. Joiarib was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Shelah. 
Nehemiah11:5 There was also Maaseiah. He was the son of Baruch. Baruch was the son of Col-Hozeh. Col-Hozeh was the son of Hazaiah. Hazaiah was the son of Adaiah. Adaiah was the son of Joiarib. Joiarib was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah belonged to the family line of Shelah. 
Nehemiah11:6 Many able men who belonged to the family line of Perez lived in Jerusalem. The total number of them was 468. 
Nehemiah11:7 Here are the leaders from the family line of Benjamin. There was Sallu. He was the son of Meshullam. Meshullam was the son of Joed. Joed was the son of Pedaiah. Pedaiah was the son of Kolaiah. Kolaiah was the son of Maaseiah. Maaseiah was the son of Ithiel. Ithiel was the son of Jeshaiah. 
Nehemiah11:8 There were also Gabbai and Sallai. They were Sallu's followers. The total number of men was 928. 
Nehemiah11:9 Joel was their chief officer. He was the son of Zicri. A man named Judah was in charge of the New Quarter of Jerusalem. He was the son of Hassenuah. 
Nehemiah11:9 Joel was their chief officer. He was the son of Zicri. A man named Judah was in charge of the New Quarter of Jerusalem. He was the son of Hassenuah. 
Nehemiah11:10 Here are the leaders from among the priests. There were Jedaiah, Jakin and the son of Joiarib." 
Nehemiah11:11 There was also Seraiah. He was the son of Hilkiah. Hilkiah was the son of Meshullam. Meshullam was the son of Zadok. Zadok was the son of Meraioth. Meraioth was the son of Ahitub. Ahitub was a ruler in God's house. 
Nehemiah11:12 There were also those who helped them. They carried out the work for the temple. The total number of men was 822. There was also Adaiah. He was the son of Jeroham. Jeroham was the son of Pelaliah. Pelaliah was the son of Amzi. Amzi was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah was the son of Pashhur. Pashhur was the son of Malkijah. 
Nehemiah11:12 There were also those who helped them. They carried out the work for the temple. The total number of men was 822. There was also Adaiah. He was the son of Jeroham. Jeroham was the son of Pelaliah. Pelaliah was the son of Amzi. Amzi was the son of Zechariah. Zechariah was the son of Pashhur. Pashhur was the son of Malkijah. 
Nehemiah11:13 There were also those who helped Adaiah. They were family leaders. The total number of men was 242. There was also Amashsai. He was the son of Azarel. Azarel was the son of Ahzai. Ahzai was the son of Meshillemoth. Meshillemoth was the son of Immer. 
Nehemiah11:14 There were also those who helped Amashsai. They were able men. The total number of them was 128. Their chief officer was Zabdiel. He was the son of Haggedolim. 
Nehemiah11:15 Here are the leaders from among the Levites. There was Shemaiah. He was the son of Hasshub. Hasshub was the son of Azrikam. Azrikam was the son of Hashabiah. Hashabiah was the son of Bunni. 
Nehemiah11:16 There were also Shabbethai and Jozabad. They were two of the leaders of the Levites. They were in charge of the work that was done outside God's house. 
Nehemiah11:17 There was also Mattaniah. He led in prayer and in giving thanks. He was the son of Mica. Mica was the son of Zabdi. Zabdi was the son of Asaph. There was also Bakbukiah. He was second among those who helped Mattaniah. And there was Abda. He was the son of Shammua. Shammua was the son of Galal. Galal was the son of Jeduthun. 
Nehemiah11:18 The total number of Levites in the holy city was 284. 
Nehemiah11:19 Here are the leaders from among the men who guarded the gates. There were Akkub, Talmon and those who helped them. They stood guard at the gates. The total number of men was 172." 
Nehemiah11:20 The rest of the Israelites were in all of the towns of Judah. The priests and Levites were with them. All of them lived on their own family property. 
Nehemiah11:21 The temple servants lived on the hill of Ophel. Ziha and Gishpa were in charge of them. 
Nehemiah11:22 Uzzi was the chief officer of the Levites in Jerusalem. He was the son of Bani. Bani was the son of Hashabiah. Hashabiah was the son of Mattaniah. Mattaniah was the son of Mica. Uzzi was one of the members of Asaph's family line. They were singers. They were in charge of the worship services at God's house. 
Nehemiah11:23 The singers received their orders from the Persian king. He told them what they should do every day. 
Nehemiah11:24 Pethahiah worked for the king in all matters that were connected with the people. He was the son of Meshezabel. Meshezabel belonged to the family line of Zerah. Zerah was the son of Judah. 
Nehemiah11:25 Many of the people of Judah lived in villages that had fields around them. Some of them lived in Kiriath Arba and the settlements that were around it. Others lived in Dibon and its settlements. Others lived in Jekabzeel and its villages. 
Nehemiah11:26 Others lived in Jeshua, Moladah and Beth Pelet." 
Nehemiah11:27 Others lived in Hazar Shual and in Beersheba and its settlements. 
Nehemiah11:28 Others lived in Ziklag and in Meconah and its settlements. 
Nehemiah11:29 Others lived in En Rimmon and Zorah. Others lived in Jarmuth," 
Nehemiah11:30 Zanoah and Adullam and their villages. Others lived in Lachish and its fields. Still others lived in Azekah and its settlements. So the people of Judah were living all the way from Beersheba to the Valley of Hinnom. 
Nehemiah11:31 Some of the members of the family line of Benjamin who were from Geba lived in Micmash. Others lived in Aija and in Bethel and its settlements. 
Nehemiah11:32 Others lived in Anathoth, Nob and Ananiah." 
Nehemiah11:33 Others lived in Hazor, Ramah and Gittaim." 
Nehemiah11:34 Others lived in Hadid, Zeboim and Neballat." 
Nehemiah11:35 Others lived in Lod and Ono. Still others lived in the Valley of Skilled Workers. 
Nehemiah11:36 Some of the groups of the Levites from Judah settled in the territory of Benjamin. 
Nehemiah12:1 Some priests and Levites returned to Judah with Zerubbabel and Jeshua. Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel. Here are the names of those priests and Levites. Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 Some priests and Levites returned to Judah with Zerubbabel and Jeshua. Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel. Here are the names of those priests and Levites. Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:1 Some priests and Levites returned to Judah with Zerubbabel and Jeshua. Zerubbabel was the son of Shealtiel. Here are the names of those priests and Levites. Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra," 
Nehemiah12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush," 
Nehemiah12:3 Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth," 
Nehemiah12:4 Iddo, Ginnethon, Abijah," 
Nehemiah12:5 Mijamin, Moadiah, Bilgah," 
Nehemiah12:6 Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah," 
Nehemiah12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, JedaiahAll of them were the leaders of the priests and those who helped them. They lived in the days of Jeshua." 
Nehemiah12:8 The Levites were Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah and Judah. There were also Mattaniah and those who helped him. They were in charge of the songs for giving thanks." 
Nehemiah12:9 Bakbukiah and Unni helped them. They stood and sang across from them during the services. 
Nehemiah12:10 Jeshua was the father of Joiakim. Joiakim was the father of Eliashib. Eliashib was the father of Joiada. 
Nehemiah12:11 Joiada was the father of Jonathan. And Jonathan was the father of Jaddua. 
Nehemiah12:12 Here are the names of the family leaders of the priests. They were the leaders in the days of Joiakim. Meraiah was from Seraiah's family. Hananiah was from Jeremiah's family. 
Nehemiah12:12 Here are the names of the family leaders of the priests. They were the leaders in the days of Joiakim. Meraiah was from Seraiah's family. Hananiah was from Jeremiah's family. 
Nehemiah12:13 Meshullam was from Ezra's family. Jehohanan was from Amariah's family. 
Nehemiah12:13 Meshullam was from Ezra's family. Jehohanan was from Amariah's family. 
Nehemiah12:14 Jonathan was from Malluch's family. Joseph was from Shecaniah's family. 
Nehemiah12:15 Adna was from Harim's family. Helkai was from Meremoth's family. 
Nehemiah12:16 Zechariah was from Iddo's family. Meshullam was from Ginnethon's family. 
Nehemiah12:16 Zechariah was from Iddo's family. Meshullam was from Ginnethon's family. 
Nehemiah12:17 Zicri was from Abijah's family. Piltai was from Miniamin's and Moadiah's family. 
Nehemiah12:18 Shammua was from Bilgah's family. Jehonathan was from Shemaiah's family. 
Nehemiah12:19 Mattenai was from Joiarib's family. Uzzi was from Jedaiah's family. 
Nehemiah12:20 Kallai was from Sallu's family. Eber was from Amok's family. 
Nehemiah12:21 Hashabiah was from Hilkiah's family. And Nethanel was from Jedaiah's family. 
Nehemiah12:22 The names of the family leaders of the Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan and Jaddua were written down. So were the names of the family leaders of the priests. That happened while Darius ruled over Persia." 
Nehemiah12:23 The names of the leaders in Levi's family line up to the time of Johanan were written down. They were written in the official records. Johanan was the son of Eliashib. 
Nehemiah12:24 The leaders of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah and Jeshua. Jeshua was the son of Kadmiel. Those who helped them stood across from them to sing praises and give thanks. One group would sing back to the other. That's what David, the man of God, had ordered." 
Nehemiah12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub stood at the gates of the temple. They guarded the storerooms at the gates." 
Nehemiah12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub stood at the gates of the temple. They guarded the storerooms at the gates." 
Nehemiah12:26 They served in the days of Joiakim. He was the son of Jeshua. Jeshua was the son of Jehozadak. They also served in the days of Nehemiah and Ezra. Nehemiah was governor. Ezra was a priest and a teacher of the law. 
Nehemiah12:26 They served in the days of Joiakim. He was the son of Jeshua. Jeshua was the son of Jehozadak. They also served in the days of Nehemiah and Ezra. Nehemiah was governor. Ezra was a priest and a teacher of the law. 
Nehemiah12:27 The wall of Jerusalem was set apart to God. For that occasion, the Levites were gathered together from where they lived. They were brought to Jerusalem to celebrate that happy occasion. They celebrated the fact that the wall was being set apart to God. They did it by singing and giving their thanks to him. They celebrated by playing music on cymbals, harps and lyres." 
Nehemiah12:28 The singers were also brought together. Some of them came in from the area around Jerusalem. Others came from the villages where the people of Netophah lived. 
Nehemiah12:29 Others came from Beth Gilgal. Still others came from the area of Geba and Azmaveth. The singers had built villages for themselves around Jerusalem. 
Nehemiah12:30 The priests and Levites made themselves pure. Then they made the people, the gates and the wall pure and clean." 
Nehemiah12:31 I, Nehemiah, had the leaders of Judah go up on top of the wall. I also appointed two large choirs to sing and give thanks. I told one of them to walk south on top of the wall. That was toward the Dung Gate." 
Nehemiah12:32 Hoshaiah and half of the leaders of Judah followed them. 
Nehemiah12:33 Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:33 Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam," 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah and Jeremiah also followed them." 
Nehemiah12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah and Jeremiah also followed them." 
Nehemiah12:35 Some priests who had trumpets followed them. So did Zechariah. He was the son of Jonathan. Jonathan was the son of Shemaiah. Shemaiah was the son of Mattaniah. Mattaniah was the son of Micaiah. Micaiah was the son of Zaccur. Zaccur was the son of Asaph. 
Nehemiah12:35 Some priests who had trumpets followed them. So did Zechariah. He was the son of Jonathan. Jonathan was the son of Shemaiah. Shemaiah was the son of Mattaniah. Mattaniah was the son of Micaiah. Micaiah was the son of Zaccur. Zaccur was the son of Asaph. 
Nehemiah12:36 Those who helped Zechariah also marched along. They were Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani. They brought instruments of music with them. That's what David, the man of God, had ordered. Ezra led the group that was marching south. He was a teacher of the law." 
Nehemiah12:36 Those who helped Zechariah also marched along. They were Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani. They brought instruments of music with them. That's what David, the man of God, had ordered. Ezra led the group that was marching south. He was a teacher of the law." 
Nehemiah12:36 Those who helped Zechariah also marched along. They were Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah and Hanani. They brought instruments of music with them. That's what David, the man of God, had ordered. Ezra led the group that was marching south. He was a teacher of the law." 
Nehemiah12:37 At the Fountain Gate they continued straight up the steps of the City of David that went up to the wall. Then the group passed above David's house. They continued on to the Water Gate on the east. 
Nehemiah12:38 The second choir went north. I followed them on top of the wall. Half of the people went with me. They went past the Tower of the Ovens. They went to the Broad Wall. 
Nehemiah12:39 They marched over the Gate of Ephraim. They went over the Jeshanah Gate and the Fish Gate. They went past the Tower of Hananel and the Tower of the Hundred. They continued on to the Sheep Gate. At the Gate of the Guard they stopped. 
Nehemiah12:40 Then the two choirs that sang and gave thanks took their places in God's house. So did I. So did half of the officials. 
Nehemiah12:41 And so did the priests. They were Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah. They had their trumpets with them." 
Nehemiah12:41 And so did the priests. They were Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah and Hananiah. They had their trumpets with them." 
Nehemiah12:42 Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malkijah, Elam and Ezer were also there. The choirs sang under the direction of Jezrahiah." 
Nehemiah12:43 On that day large numbers of sacrifices were offered. The people were glad because God had given them great joy. The women and children were also very happy. The joyful sound in Jerusalem could be heard far away. 
Nehemiah12:44 At that time some men were put in charge of the storerooms. That's where all of the gifts the people brought were placed. They included the first shares of their crops. They also included a tenth of everything the Law required. From the fields that were around the towns the people had to bring the shares of their crops that were required by the Law. They gave them to the priests and Levites. That's because the people of Judah were pleased with the priests and Levites who were serving God. 
Nehemiah12:45 The priests and Levites did everything their God wanted them to do. They made things pure and clean. The singers and those who guarded the temple gates also served God. Everything was done just as David and his son Solomon had commanded. 
Nehemiah12:46 A long time ago there had been directors for the singers. There had also been directors for the songs for giving thanks and praise to God. It was in the time of David and Asaph. 
Nehemiah12:47 So now in the days of Zerubbabel and Nehemiah, all of the people of Israel brought their gifts. They gave the singers and those who guarded the gates what they were supposed to give them every day. They also set apart the shares for the other Levites. And the Levites set apart the shares for the priests in the family line of Aaron." 
Nehemiah13:1 On that same day the Scroll of Moses was read out loud. All of the people heard it. It was written there that no one from Ammon or Moab should ever be allowed to become a member of the community of God. 
Nehemiah13:2 That's because they hadn't given the people of Israel food and water. Instead, they had hired Balaam to call a curse down on them. But our God turned the curse into a blessing." 
Nehemiah13:3 When that law was read, the people of Judah obeyed it. They put out of Israel everyone who was from another nation." 
Nehemiah13:4 The priest Eliashib had been put in charge of the storerooms in the house of our God. He had worked closely with Tobiah. 
Nehemiah13:5 He had also provided a large room for Tobiah. It had been used to store the grain offerings. The incense and temple articles had been put there. And a tenth of the grain, olive oil and fresh wine had been kept there. That's what the Law required for the Levites. That's also what it required for the singers and those who guarded the temple gates. The gifts for the priests had been kept there too." 
Nehemiah13:6 But I wasn't in Jerusalem while all of that was going on. I had returned to the Persian King Artaxerxes, the king of Babylonia. I went to him in the 32nd year of his rule. Some time later I asked him to let me return to Jerusalem." 
Nehemiah13:7 When I got back, I learned about the evil thing Eliashib had done. He had provided a room for Tobiah. It was in the courtyards of God's house." 
Nehemiah13:8 So I was very unhappy. I threw all of Tobiah's things out of the room. 
Nehemiah13:9 I gave orders to make the rooms pure and clean again. Then I put the supplies from God's house back into them. That included the grain offerings and the incense. 
Nehemiah13:10 I also learned that the shares the Levites were supposed to receive hadn't been given to them. So all of the Levites and singers had to leave their regular temple duties. They had to go back and farm their own fields. 
Nehemiah13:11 I gave a warning to the officials. I asked them, ""Why aren't you taking care of God's house?"" Then I brought them together. I stationed them in their proper places. I put them back to work." 
Nehemiah13:12 All of the people of Judah brought a tenth of the grain, olive oil and fresh wine. They took it to the storerooms." 
Nehemiah13:13 I put some men in charge of the storerooms. They were Shelemiah, Zadok and Pedaiah. Shelemiah was a priest. Zadok was a teacher of the law. And Pedaiah was a Levite. I made Hanan their assistant. He was the son of Zaccur. Zaccur was the son of Mattaniah. I knew that those men could be trusted. They were put in charge of handing out the supplies to their people." 
Nehemiah13:14 You are my God. Remember me because of what I've done. I've worked faithfully for your temple and its services. So please don't forget the good things I've done. 
Nehemiah13:15 In those days I saw some men of Judah stomping on grapes in winepresses. They were doing it on the Sabbath day. Others were bringing in grain. They were loading it on donkeys. Still others were loading up wine, grapes, figs and other kinds of things. They were bringing all of it into Jerusalem on the Sabbath. So I warned them not to sell food on that day." 
Nehemiah13:16 People from Tyre who lived in Jerusalem were bringing in fish. In fact, they were bringing in all kinds of goods. They were selling them in Jerusalem on the Sabbath. The people of Judah were buying them." 
Nehemiah13:17 I gave a warning to the nobles of Judah. I said, ""Why are you doing such an evil thing? You are misusing the Sabbath day!" 
Nehemiah13:18 Your people before you did the very same things. That's why our God has brought all of this trouble on us. That's why he's making this city suffer so much. Now you are stirring up even more of his anger against Israel. You are misusing the Sabbath day. 
Nehemiah13:19 Evening shadows fell on the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath started. So I ordered the gates to be shut. They had to remain closed until the Sabbath was over. I stationed some of my own men at the gates. I told them not to let anything be brought in on the Sabbath day. 
Nehemiah13:20 Once or twice some traders and sellers spent the night outside Jerusalem. They were hoping to sell all kinds of goods. 
Nehemiah13:21 But I gave them a warning. I said, ""Why are you spending the night by the wall? If you do this again, I'll arrest you."" So from that time on they didn't come on the Sabbath anymore." 
Nehemiah13:22 I commanded the Levites to make themselves pure. Then I told them to go and guard the gates. I wanted the Sabbath day to be kept holy. You are my God. Remember me because of the good things I've done. Be kind to me in keeping with your great love. 
Nehemiah13:23 In those days I also saw that some men of Judah had gotten married to women from Ashdod. Others had married women from Ammon or Moab. 
Nehemiah13:24 Half of their children spoke the language of Ashdod. Or they spoke the language of one of the other nations. They didn't even know how to speak the language of Judah. 
Nehemiah13:25 So I gave them a warning. I called curses down on them. I beat some of them up. I pulled their hair out. I made them take an oath in God's name. I said, ""You must promise not to give your daughters to be married to their sons. You must promise not to let their daughters marry your sons. And you must not marry their daughters either." 
Nehemiah13:26 That's how Solomon, the king of Israel, sinned. He married women from other nations. There wasn't a king like him anywhere. His God loved him. In fact, God made him king over the whole nation of Israel. But even he was led into sin by women from other lands." 
Nehemiah13:27 Now I hear that you too are doing all of the same terrible and evil things. You aren't being faithful to our God. You are marrying women from other lands. 
Nehemiah13:28 One of the sons of Joiada was the son-in-law of Sanballat. Joiada was the high priest. He was the son of Eliashib. I drove Joiada's son away from me. Sanballat was a Horonite. 
Nehemiah13:29 You are my God. Remember what those priests have done. They have polluted their own work. They have also polluted the covenant that God made with the priests and Levites long ago. 
Nehemiah13:30 So I made the priests and Levites pure. I made them pure from every practice that had come from other countries and had polluted them. I gave them their duties. Each one had his own job to do. 
Nehemiah13:31 I also made plans for gifts of wood to be brought at certain appointed times. And I made plans for the first share of the crops to be brought. You are my God. Please remember me. Show me your favor. 
Esther1:1 King Xerxes ruled over the 127 territories in his kingdom. They reached from India all the way to Cush. Here is what happened during the time Xerxes ruled over the whole Persian kingdom. 
Esther1:2 He was ruling from his royal throne in the safest place in Susa. 
Esther1:3 In the third year of his rule King Xerxes gave a big dinner. It was for all of his nobles and officials. The military leaders of Persia and Media were there. So were the princes and the nobles of the territories he ruled over. 
Esther1:4 Every day for 180 days he showed his guests the great wealth of his kingdom. He also showed them how glorious his kingdom was. 
Esther1:5 When those days were over, the king gave another big dinner. It lasted for seven days. It was held in the garden of the king's courtyard. It was for all of the people who lived in the safest place in Susa. Everyone from the least important person to the most important was invited." 
Esther1:6 The garden was decorated with white and blue linen banners. They hung from ropes that were made out of white linen and purple cloth. The ropes were connected to silver rings on marble pillars. There were gold and silver couches in the garden. They were placed on a floor that was made out of small stones. The floor had purple crystal, marble, mother-of-pearl and other stones of great value." 
Esther1:7 Royal wine was served in gold cups. Each cup was different from all of the others. There was plenty of wine. The king always provided as much as his guests wanted. 
Esther1:8 He commanded that they should be allowed to drink as much or as little as they wished. He directed all of his servants to give them what they asked for. 
Esther1:9 Queen Vashti also gave a big dinner. Only women were invited. It was held in the royal palace of King Xerxes. 
Esther1:10 On the seventh day Xerxes was in a good mood because he had drunk a lot of wine. So he gave a command to the seven officials who served him. They were Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar and Carcas." 
Esther1:11 He told them to bring Queen Vashti to him. He wanted her to come wearing her royal crown. He wanted to show off her beauty to the people and nobles. She was lovely to look at. 
Esther1:12 The attendants told Queen Vashti what the king had ordered her to do. But she refused to come. So the king became very angry. In fact, he burned with anger." 
Esther1:13 It was the king's practice to ask advice from those who knew a lot about matters of law and fairness. So he spoke with the wise men who were supposed to understand what was going on at that time. 
Esther1:14 They were the men who were closest to the king. They were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena and Memucan. They were the seven nobles of Persia and Media. They were the king's special advisers. In fact, they were the most important men in the kingdom." 
Esther1:15 You know the law,"" the king said. ""What should I do to Queen Vashti? She hasn't obeyed my command. The officials told her what I ordered her to do, didn't they?""" 
Esther1:16 Then Memucan gave a reply to the king and the nobles. He said, ""Queen Vashti has done what is wrong. But she didn't do it only against you, King Xerxes. She did it also against all of the nobles. And she did it against the people in all of the territories you rule over." 
Esther1:17 All of the women will hear about what the queen has done. Then they will look down on their husbands. They'll say, 'King Xerxes commanded Queen Vashti to be brought to him. But she wouldn't come.'" 
Esther1:18 Starting today, the leading women in Persia and Media who have heard about the queen's actions will act in the same way. They'll disobey all of your nobles, just as she disobeyed you. They won't have any respect for their husbands. They won't honor them." 
Esther1:19 So if it pleases you, send out a royal order. Let it be written down in the laws of Persia and Media. They can never be changed. Let the royal order say that Vashti can never see you again. Also let her position as queen be given to someone who is better than she is." 
Esther1:20 And let your order be announced all through your entire kingdom. Then all of the other women will have respect for their husbands from the least important of them to the most important. 
Esther1:21 The king and his nobles were pleased with that advice. So he did what Memucan had suggested. 
Esther1:22 He sent messages out to every territory in the kingdom. He sent them to each territory in its own writing. He sent them to every nation in its own language. The messages announced in each nation's language that every man should rule over his own family. 
Esther2:1 Later, the anger of King Xerxes calmed down. Then he remembered Vashti and what she had done. He also remembered the royal order he had sent out concerning her." 
Esther2:2 At that time the king's personal attendants made a suggestion. They said, ""King Xerxes, let a search be made for some beautiful young virgins for you." 
Esther2:3 Appoint some officials in every territory in your kingdom. Have them bring all of those beautiful virgins into the safest place in Susa. Put them in the special place where the virgins stay. Then put Hegai in charge of them. He's the eunuch who serves you. He's in charge of the virgins. Let beauty care be given to the new group of virgins. 
Esther2:4 Then let the one who pleases you the most become queen in Vashti's place. The king liked that advice. So he followed it. 
Esther2:5 There was a Jew living in the safest place in Susa. He was from the tribe of Benjamin. His name was Mordecai. He was the son of Jair. Jair was the son of Shimei. Shimei was the son of Kish. 
Esther2:6 Nebuchadnezzar had forced Mordecai to leave Jerusalem. He was among the prisoners who were carried off along with Jehoiachin. Jehoiachin had been king of Judah. Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. 
Esther2:7 Mordecai had a cousin named Hadassah. He had brought her up in his own home. She didn't have a father or mother. Hadassah was also called Esther. She was very beautiful. Mordecai had adopted her as his own daughter. He had done it when her father and mother died. 
Esther2:8 After the king's order and law were announced, many virgins were brought to the safest place in Susa. Hegai was put in charge of them. Esther was also taken to the king's palace. She was put under the control of Hegai. He was in charge of the place where the virgins stayed." 
Esther2:9 Esther pleased him. He showed her his favor. Right away he provided her with her beauty care and special food. He appointed seven female attendants to help her. They were chosen from the king's palace. He moved her and her attendants into the best part of the place where the virgins stayed. 
Esther2:10 Esther hadn't told anyone who her people were. She hadn't talked about her family. That's because Mordecai had told her not to. 
Esther2:11 Mordecai tried to find out how Esther was getting along. He wanted to know what was happening to her. So he walked back and forth near the courtyard by the place where the virgins stayed. He did it every day. 
Esther2:12 Each virgin had to complete 12 months of beauty care. They used oil of myrrh for six months. And they used perfume and make-up for the other six months. A virgin's turn to go in to King Xerxes could come only after a full 12 months had passed. 
Esther2:13 And here is how she would go to the king. She would be given anything she wanted from the place where the virgins stayed. She could take it with her to the king's palace. 
Esther2:14 In the evening she would go there. In the morning she would leave. Then she would go to the special place where the king's concubines stayed. She would be put under the control of Shaashgaz. He was the king's eunuch who was in charge of the concubines. She would never return to the king unless he was pleased with her. He had to send for her by name before she could go to him again. 
Esther2:15 Mordecai had adopted Esther. She had been the daughter of his uncle Abihail. Her turn came to go in to the king. She only asked for what Hegai suggested. He was the king's eunuch who was in charge of the place where the virgins stayed. Everyone who saw Esther was pleased with her. 
Esther2:16 She was taken to King Xerxes in the royal house. It was now the tenth month. That was the month of Tebeth. It was the seventh year of the rule of Xerxes. 
Esther2:17 The king liked Esther more than he liked any of the other women. She pleased him more than any of the other virgins. So he put a royal crown on her head. He made her queen in Vashti's place. 
Esther2:18 Then the king gave a big dinner. It was in honor of Esther. All of his nobles and officials were invited. He announced a holiday all through the territories he ruled over. He freely gave many gifts in keeping with his royal wealth. 
Esther2:19 The virgins were gathered together a second time. At that time Mordecai was sitting at the palace gate. 
Esther2:20 Esther had kept her family history a secret. She hadn't told anyone who her people were. Mordecai had told her not to. She continued to follow his directions. That's what she had always done when he was bringing her up. 
Esther2:21 Bigthana and Teresh were two of the king's officers. They guarded the door of the royal palace. They became angry with King Xerxes. So they decided to kill him. They made their evil plans while Mordecai was sitting at the palace gate. 
Esther2:22 So he found out about it. And he told Queen Esther. Then she reported it to the king. She told him that Mordecai had uncovered the plans against him. 
Esther2:23 Some people checked Esther's report. And they found out it was true. So the two officials were put to death. Then poles were stuck through them. They were set up where people could see them. All of that was written in the official records. It was written down while the king was watching. 
Esther3:1 After those events, King Xerxes honored Haman. Haman was the son of Hammedatha. He was from the family line of Agag. The king gave Haman a higher position than he had before. He gave him a seat of honor. It was higher than the positions any of the other nobles had." 
Esther3:2 All of the royal officials at the palace gate got down on their knees. They gave honor to Haman. That's because the king had commanded them to do it. But Mordecai refused to get down on his knees. He wouldn't give Haman any honor at all. 
Esther3:3 The royal officials at the palace gate asked Mordecai a question. They said, ""Why don't you obey the king's command?""" 
Esther3:4 Day after day they spoke to him. But he still refused to obey. So they told Haman about it. They wanted to see whether he would let Mordecai get away with what he was doing. Mordecai had told them he was a Jew. 
Esther3:5 Haman noticed that Mordecai wouldn't get down on his knees. He wouldn't give Haman any honor. So Haman burned with anger. 
Esther3:6 But he had found out who Mordecai's people were. So he decided not to kill just Mordecai. He also looked for a way to destroy all of Mordecai's people. They were Jews. He wanted to kill all of them everywhere in the kingdom of Xerxes. 
Esther3:7 The lot was cast in front of Haman. That was done to choose a day and a month. It was the 12th year that Xerxes was king. It was in the first month. That was the month of Nisan. The lot chose the 12th month. That was the month of Adar. The lot was also called [pur. 
Esther3:8 Then Haman said to King Xerxes, ""Certain people are scattered among the nations. They live in all of the territories in your kingdom. Their practices are different from the practices of all other people. They don't obey your laws. It really isn't good for you to put up with them." 
Esther3:9 If it pleases you, give the order to destroy them. I'll even add 375 tons of silver to the royal treasures. You can use it to pay the men who take care of the matter.""" 
Esther3:10 So the king took his ring off his finger. The ring had his royal seal on it. He gave the ring to Haman. Haman was the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite. He was the enemy of the Jews." 
Esther3:11 Keep the money,"" the king said to Haman. ""Do what you want to with those people.""" 
Esther3:12 The king sent for the royal secretaries. It was the 13th day of the first month. The secretaries wrote down all of Haman's orders. They wrote them down in the writing of each territory in the kingdom. They also wrote them in the language of each nation. The orders were sent to the royal officials. They were also sent to the governors of the territories. And they went out to the nobles of the nations. The orders were written in the name of King Xerxes himself. And they were stamped with his own royal seal. 
Esther3:13 They were carried by messengers. They were sent to all of the king's territories. The orders commanded people to destroy, kill and wipe out all of the Jews. That included young people and old people alike. It included women and little children. All of the Jews were supposed to be killed on a single day. That day was the 13th day of the 12th month. It was the month of Adar. The orders also commanded people to take the goods that belonged to the Jews." 
Esther3:14 A copy of the order had to be sent out as law. It had to be sent to every territory in the kingdom. It had to be announced to the people of every nation. Then they would be ready for that day. 
Esther3:15 The king commanded the messengers to go out. So they did. The order was sent out from the safest place in Susa. Then the king and Haman sat down to drink wine. But the people in the city were bewildered. 
Esther4:1 Mordecai found out about everything that had been done. So he tore his clothes. He put on black clothes. He sat down in ashes. Then he went out into the city. He sobbed out loud. He cried bitter tears. 
Esther4:2 But he only went as far as the palace gate. That's because no one who was dressed in black clothes was allowed to go through it. 
Esther4:3 All of the Jews were very sad. They didn't eat anything. They sobbed and cried. Many of them put on black clothes. They were lying down in ashes. They did all of those things in every territory where the king's order and law had been sent. 
Esther4:4 Esther's eunuchs and female attendants came to her. They told her about Mordecai. So she became very troubled. She wanted him to take his black clothes off. So she sent him other clothes to wear. But he wouldn't accept them. 
Esther4:5 Then Esther sent for Hathach. He was one of the king's eunuchs. He had been appointed to take care of her. She ordered him to find out what was troubling Mordecai. She wanted to know why he was so upset. 
Esther4:6 So Hathach went out to see Mordecai. He was in the open area in front of the palace gate. 
Esther4:7 Mordecai told him everything that had happened to him. He told him about the exact amount of money Haman had promised to add to the royal treasures. He said Haman wanted it to be used to pay some men to destroy the Jews. 
Esther4:8 Mordecai also gave Hathach a copy of the order. It commanded people to wipe out the Jews. The order had been sent from Susa. Mordecai told Hathach to show the order to Esther. He wanted him to explain it to her. He told him to try and get her to go to the king. He wanted her to beg for mercy. He wanted her to make an appeal to the king for her people. 
Esther4:9 Hathach went back. He reported to Esther what Mordecai had said. 
Esther4:10 Then Esther directed him to give an answer to Mordecai. She told him to say," 
Esther4:11 There is a certain law that everyone knows about. All of the king's officials know about it. The people in the royal territories know about it. It applies to any man or woman who approaches the king in the inner courtyard without being sent for. It says they must be put to death. But there is a way out. Suppose the king reaches out his gold rod toward them. Then their lives will be spared. But 30 days have gone by since the king sent for me. 
Esther4:12 Esther's words were reported to Mordecai. 
Esther4:13 Then he sent back an answer. He said, ""You live in the king's palace. But don't think that just because you are there you will be the only Jew who will escape." 
Esther4:14 What if you don't say anything at this time? Then help for the Jews will come from another place. But you and your family will die. Who knows? It's possible that you became queen for a time just like this. 
Esther4:15 Then Esther sent a reply to Mordecai. She said," 
Esther4:16 Go. Gather together all of the Jews who are in Susa. And fast for my benefit. Don't eat or drink anything for three days. Don't do it night or day. I and my attendants will fast just as you do. Then I'll go to the king. I'll do it even though it's against the law. And if I have to die, I'll die.""" 
Esther4:17 So Mordecai went away. He carried out all of Esther's directions. 
Esther5:1 On the third day Esther put her royal robes on. She stood in the inner courtyard of the palace. It was in front of the king's hall. The king was sitting on his royal throne in the hall. He was facing the entrance. 
Esther5:2 He saw Queen Esther standing in the courtyard. He was pleased with her. So he reached out toward her the gold rod that was in his hand. Then Esther approached him. She touched the tip of the rod. 
Esther5:3 The king asked, ""What is it, Queen Esther? What do you want? I'll give it to you. I'll even give you up to half of my kingdom.""" 
Esther5:4 Esther replied, ""King Xerxes, if it pleases you, come to a big dinner today. I've prepared it for you. Please have Haman come with you.""" 
Esther5:5 Bring Haman at once,"" the king said to his servants. ""Then we'll do what Esther asks."" So the king and Haman went to the big dinner Esther had prepared." 
Esther5:6 As they were drinking wine, the king asked Esther the same question again. He said, ""What do you want? I'll give it to you. What do you want me to do for you? I'll even give you up to half of my kingdom.""" 
Esther5:7 Esther replied, ""Here is what I want. Here is my appeal to you." 
Esther5:8 I hope you will show me your favor. I hope you will be pleased to give me what I want. And I hope you will be pleased to listen to my appeal. If you are, I'd like you and Haman to come tomorrow to the big dinner I'll prepare for you. Then I'll answer your question.""" 
Esther5:9 That day Haman was happy. So he left the palace in a good mood. But then he saw Mordecai at the palace gate. He noticed that Mordecai didn't stand up when he walked by. In fact, Mordecai didn't have any respect for him at all. So he burned with anger against him." 
Esther5:10 But Haman was able to control himself. He went on home. Haman called his friends and his wife Zeresh together. 
Esther5:11 He bragged to them about how rich he was. He talked about how many sons he had. He spoke about all of the ways the king had honored him. He bragged about how the king had given him a higher position than any of the other nobles and officials had. 
Esther5:12 And that's not all! Haman added. I'm the only person Queen Esther invited to come with the king to the big dinner she gave. Now she has invited me along with the king tomorrow. 
Esther5:13 But even all of that doesn't satisfy me. I won't be satisfied as long as I see that Jew Mordecai sitting at the palace gate. 
Esther5:14 Haman's wife Zeresh and all of his friends spoke up. They said to him, ""Get a pole. In the morning, ask the king to have Mordecai put to death. Have the pole stuck through his body. Set it up at a place where it will be 75 feet above the ground. Everyone will be able to see it there. Then go to the dinner with the king. Have a good time."" Haman was delighted with that suggestion. So he got the pole ready." 
Esther6:1 That night the king couldn't sleep. So he ordered the official records of his rule to be brought in. He ordered someone to read them to him. 
Esther6:2 It was written there that Mordecai had uncovered the plans of Bigthana and Teresh against the king. They had been two of the king's officers who guarded the door of the royal palace. They had decided to kill King Xerxes. 
Esther6:3 What great honor has Mordecai received for doing that? the king asked. Nothing has been done for him,"" his attendants answered." 
Esther6:4 The king asked, ""Who is in the courtyard?"" Haman had just entered the outer courtyard of the palace. He had come to speak to the king about putting Mordecai to death. He wanted to talk about putting Mordecai's body up on the pole he had gotten ready for him." 
Esther6:5 The king's attendants said to him, ""Haman is standing in the courtyard."" ""Bring him in,"" the king ordered." 
Esther6:6 Haman entered. Then the king asked him, ""What should be done for the man I want to honor?"" Haman said to himself, ""Is there anyone the king would rather honor than me?""" 
Esther6:7 So he answered the king. He said, ""Here is what you should do for the man you want to honor." 
Esther6:8 Have your servants get a royal robe you have worn. Have them bring a horse you have ridden on. Have a royal crest placed on its head. 
Esther6:9 Then give the robe and horse to one of your most noble princes. Let the robe be put on the man you want to honor. Let him be led on the horse through the city streets. Let people announce in front of him, 'This is what is done for the man the king wants to honor!' """ 
Esther6:10 Go right away,"" the king commanded Haman. ""Get the robe. Bring the horse. Do exactly what you have suggested. Do it for the Jew Mordecai. He's sitting out there at the palace gate. Make sure you do everything you have suggested.""" 
Esther6:11 So Haman got the robe and the horse. He put the robe on Mordecai. And he led him on horseback through the city streets. He walked along in front of him and announced, ""This is what is done for the man the king wants to honor!""" 
Esther6:12 After that, Mordecai returned to the palace gate. But Haman rushed home. He covered his head because he was very sad." 
Esther6:13 He told his wife Zeresh everything that had happened to him. He also told all of his friends. His advisers and his wife Zeresh spoke to him. They said, ""Your fall from power started with Mordecai. He's a Jew. So now you can't stand up against him. You are going to be destroyed!""" 
Esther6:14 They were still talking with him when the king's officials arrived. They hurried Haman away to the big dinner Esther had prepared. 
Esther7:1 So the king and Haman went to dine with Queen Esther. 
Esther7:2 They were drinking wine on the second day. The king again asked, ""What do you want, Queen Esther? I'll give it to you. What do you want me to do for you? I'll even give you up to half of my kingdom.""" 
Esther7:3 Then Queen Esther answered, ""King Xerxes, I hope you will show me your favor. I hope you will be pleased to let me live. That's what I want. Please spare my people. That's my appeal to you." 
Esther7:4 My people and I have been sold to be destroyed. We've been sold to be killed and wiped out. Suppose we had only been sold as male and female slaves. Then I wouldn't have said anything. That kind of suffering wouldn't be a good enough reason to bother you. 
Esther7:5 King Xerxes asked Queen Esther, ""Who is the man who has dared to do such a thing? And where is he?""" 
Esther7:6 Esther said, ""The man hates us! He's our enemy! He's this evil Haman!"" Then Haman was terrified in front of the king and queen." 
Esther7:7 The king got up. He was burning with anger. He left his wine and went out into the palace garden. But Haman realized that the king had already decided what he was going to do to him. So he stayed behind to beg Queen Esther for his life. 
Esther7:8 The king returned from the palace garden to the dinner hall. Just then he saw Haman falling on the couch where Esther was lying. The king shouted, ""Will he even rape the queen? Is he going to rape her while she's right here with me in the palace?"" As soon as the king finished speaking, his men covered Haman's face." 
Esther7:9 Then Harbona said, ""There's a pole standing near Haman's house. He has gotten it ready for Mordecai. Mordecai is the one who spoke up to help you. Haman had planned to have him put to death. He was going to have the pole stuck through his body. Then he was going to set it up at a place where it would be 75 feet above the ground."" Harbona was one of the officials who attended the king. The king said to his men, ""Put Haman to death! Stick the pole through his body! Set it up where everyone can see it!""" 
Esther7:10 So they did. And they used the pole Haman had gotten ready for Mordecai. Then the king's anger calmed down. 
Esther8:1 That same day King Xerxes gave Queen Esther everything Haman had owned. Haman had been the enemy of the Jews. Esther had told the king that Mordecai was her cousin. So Mordecai came to see the king. 
Esther8:2 The king took his ring off. It had his royal seal on it. He had taken it back from Haman. Now he gave it to Mordecai. And Esther put Mordecai in charge of everything Haman had owned. 
Esther8:3 Esther made another appeal to the king. She fell at his feet and sobbed. She begged him to put an end to the evil plan of Haman, the Agagite. He had decided to kill the Jews." 
Esther8:4 The king reached out his gold rod toward Esther. She got up and stood in front of him. 
Esther8:5 King Xerxes, I hope you will show me your favor,"" she said. ""I hope you will think that what I'm asking is the right thing to do. I hope you are pleased with me. If you are, and if it pleases you, let an order be written. Let it take the place of the messages Haman wrote. Haman was the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite. He planned to kill the Jews. He wrote orders to destroy us in all of your territories." 
Esther8:6 I couldn't stand by and see the horrible trouble that would fall on my people! I couldn't stand to see my family destroyed! 
Esther8:7 King Xerxes gave a reply to Queen Esther and the Jew Mordecai. He said, ""Haman attacked the Jews. So I've given Esther everything he owned. My men have stuck a pole through his dead body. And they've set it up where everyone can see it." 
Esther8:8 Now write another order in my name. Do it for the benefit of the Jews. Do what seems best to you. Stamp the order with my royal seal. Nothing that is written in my name and stamped with my seal can ever be changed. 
Esther8:9 Right away the king sent for the royal secretaries. It was the 23rd day of the third month. That was the month of Sivan. They wrote down all of Mordecai's orders to the Jews. They also wrote them to the royal officials, the governors and the nobles of the 127 territories in his kingdom. The territories reached from India all the way to Cush. The orders were written down in the writing of each territory. They were written in the language of each nation. They were also written to the Jews in their own writing and language." 
Esther8:10 Mordecai wrote the orders in the name of King Xerxes. He stamped them with the king's royal seal. He sent them by messengers on horseback. They rode fast horses that were raised just for the king. 
Esther8:11 The Jews in every city could now gather together and fight for their lives. The king's order gave them that right. But what if soldiers from any nation or territory attacked them? What if they attacked their women and children? Then the Jews could destroy, kill and wipe out those soldiers. They could also take the goods that belonged to their enemies." 
Esther8:12 A day was appointed for the Jews to do that in all of the king's territories. It was the 13th day of the 12th month. That was the month of Adar. 
Esther8:13 A copy of the order was sent out as law in every territory. It was announced to the people of every nation. So the Jews would be ready on that day. They could pay their enemies back. 
Esther8:14 The messengers rode on the royal horses. They raced along. That's what the king commanded them to do. The order was also sent out in the safest place in Susa. 
Esther8:15 Mordecai left the king and went on his way. Mordecai was wearing royal clothes. They were blue and white. He was also wearing a large gold crown. And he was wearing a purple coat. It was made out of fine linen. The city of Susa celebrated with great joy. 
Esther8:16 The Jews were filled with joy and happiness. They were very glad because now they were being honored. 
Esther8:17 They celebrated and enjoyed good food. They were glad and full of joy. That was true everywhere the king's order went out. It was true in every territory and every city. Many people from other nations announced that they had become Jews. That's because they were so afraid of the Jews. 
Esther9:1 The king's order had to be carried out on the 13th day of the 12th month. That was the month of Adar. On that day the enemies of the Jews had hoped to win the battle over them. But now everything had changed. The Jews had gained the advantage over those who hated them. 
Esther9:2 The Jews gathered together in their cities. They gathered in all of the territories King Xerxes ruled over. They came together to attack those who were trying to destroy them. No one could stand up against them. The people from all of the other nations were afraid of them. 
Esther9:3 All of the nobles in the territories helped the Jews. So did the royal officials, the governors and the king's officers. That's because they were so afraid of Mordecai." 
Esther9:4 He was well known in the palace. His fame spread all through the territories. So he became more and more important. 
Esther9:5 The Jews struck down all of their enemies with swords. They killed them and destroyed them. They did what they pleased to those who hated them. 
Esther9:6 The Jews killed 500 men. They destroyed them in the safest place in Susa. 
Esther9:7 They also killed Parshandatha, Dalphon, Aspatha," 
Esther9:8 Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha," 
Esther9:9 Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai and Vaizatha." 
Esther9:10 They were the ten sons of Haman. He was the son of Hammedatha. Haman had been the enemy of the Jews. They didn't take anything that belonged to their enemies. 
Esther9:11 A report was brought to the king that same day. He was told how many men had been killed in the safest place in Susa. 
Esther9:12 He said to Queen Esther, ""The Jews have killed 500 men. They destroyed them in the safest place in Susa. They also killed the ten sons of Haman there. What have they done in the rest of my territories? Now what do you want? I'll give it to you. What do you want me to do for you? I'll do that too.""" 
Esther9:13 If it pleases you,"" Esther answered, ""let the Jews in Susa carry out today's order tomorrow also. Stick poles through the dead bodies of Haman's ten sons. Set them up where everyone can see them.""" 
Esther9:14 So the king commanded that it be done. An order was sent out in Susa. And the king's men did to the bodies of Haman's sons everything they were told to do. 
Esther9:15 The Jews in Susa came together on the 14th day of the month of Adar. They put 300 men to death in Susa. But they didn't take anything that belonged to those men. 
Esther9:16 During that time, the rest of the Jews also gathered together. They lived in the king's territories. They came together to fight for their lives. They didn't want their enemies to bother them anymore. They wanted to get some peace and rest. So they killed 75,000 of their enemies. But they didn't take anything that belonged to them." 
Esther9:17 It happened on the 13th of Adar. On the 14th day they rested. They made it a day to celebrate with great joy. And they enjoyed good food. 
Esther9:18 But the Jews in Susa had gathered together on the 13th and 14th. Then on the 15th they rested. They made it a day to celebrate with great joy. And they enjoyed good food. 
Esther9:19 That's why Jews who live out in the villages celebrate on the 14th of Adar. They celebrate that day with great joy. And they enjoy good food. They also give presents to each other on that day. 
Esther9:20 Mordecai wrote down those events. He sent letters to all of the Jews all through the territories of King Xerxes. It didn't matter whether the Jews lived nearby or far away. 
Esther9:21 Mordecai told them to celebrate the 14th and 15th days of the month of Adar. He wanted them to do it every year. 
Esther9:22 Mordecai told the Jews to celebrate the time when they got rest from their enemies. That was the month when their sadness was turned into joy. It was when their sobbing turned into a day for celebrating. He wrote the letters to celebrate those days as times of joy. He wanted the people to enjoy good food. He told them to give presents of food to one another. He also wanted them to give gifts to those who were poor. 
Esther9:23 So the Jews agreed to continue the celebrating they had started. They kept doing what Mordecai had written to them. 
Esther9:24 Haman was the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite. He had been the enemy of all of the Jews. He had planned to destroy them. He had cast the lot to destroy them completely. The lot was also called pur." 
Esther9:25 But the king had found out about Haman's evil plan. So the king had sent out written orders. He had ordered that the evil plan Haman had made against the Jews should come back on his own head. He had also commanded that Haman and his sons should be put to death. Poles should be stuck through their dead bodies. Then they should be set up where everyone could see them. 
Esther9:26 The days the Jews were celebrating were called Purim. Purim comes from the word pur. Pur means lot. Now the Jews celebrate those two days every year. They do it because of everything that was written in Mordecai's letter. They also do it because of what they had seen and what had happened to them. 
Esther9:27 So they established it as a regular practice. They decided they would always observe those two days of the year. They would celebrate in the required way. And they would celebrate at the appointed time. They and their children after them and everyone who joined them would always observe those days. 
Esther9:28 The days should be remembered and celebrated. They should be remembered by every family for all time to come. They should be celebrated in every territory and in every city. The Jews should never stop celebrating the days of Purim. Their children after them should always remember those days. 
Esther9:29 So Queen Esther, the daughter of Abihail, wrote a second letter. She wrote it together with the Jew Mordecai. They wanted to give their full authority to this second letter about Purim." 
Esther9:30 Mordecai sent letters to all of the Jews in the 127 territories of the kingdom of Xerxes. The letters had messages of kindness and hope in them. 
Esther9:31 The letters established the days of Purim at their appointed times. They spoke about what the Jew Mordecai and Queen Esther had ordered the people to do. Everything should be done in keeping with the directions the Jews had set up for themselves and their children after them. The directions applied to their times of fasting and sadness. 
Esther9:32 Esther's order established the rules about Purim. It was written down in the records. 
Esther10:1 King Xerxes required people all through his kingdom to bring him gifts. He required gifts from its farthest shores. 
Esther10:2 All of his powerful and mighty acts are written down. That includes the whole story of how important Mordecai was. The king had given him a position of great honor. All of those things are written in the official records of the kings of Media and Persia. 
Esther10:3 The Jew Mordecai's position was second only to the position of King Xerxes. Mordecai was the most important Jew. All of the other Jews had the highest respect for him. That's because he worked for the good of his people. And he spoke up for the benefit of all of the Jews. 
Job1:1 There was a man who lived in the land of Uz. His name was Job. He was honest. He did what was right. He had respect for God and avoided evil. 
Job1:2 Job had seven sons and three daughters. 
Job1:3 He owned 7,000 sheep and 3,000 camels. He owned 500 pairs of oxen and 500 donkeys. He also had a large number of servants. He was the most important man among all of the people in the east." 
Job1:4 His sons used to take turns giving big dinners in their homes. They would invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. 
Job1:5 When the time for enjoying good food was over, Job would have his children made pure and clean. He would sacrifice a burnt offering for each of them. He would do it early in the morning. He would think, ""Perhaps my children have sinned. Maybe they have spoken evil things against God in their hearts."" That's what Job always did for his children when he felt they had sinned." 
Job1:6 One day angels came to the Lord. Satan also came with them. 
Job1:7 The Lord said to Satan, ""Where have you come from?"" Satan answered, ""From traveling all around the earth. I've been going from one end of it to the other.""" 
Job1:8 Then the Lord said to Satan, ""Have you thought about my servant Job? There isn't anyone on earth like him. He is honest. He does what is right. He has respect for me and avoids evil.""" 
Job1:9 You always give Job everything he needs,"" Satan replied. ""That's why he has respect for you." 
Job1:10 Haven't you guarded him and his family? Haven't you taken care of everything he has? You have blessed everything he does. His flocks and herds are spread all through the land. 
Job1:11 But reach out your hand and strike down everything he has. Then I'm sure he will speak evil things against you. In fact, he'll do it right in front of you.""" 
Job1:12 The Lord said to Satan, ""All right. I am handing everything he has over to you. But do not touch the man himself."" Then Satan left the Lord and went on his way." 
Job1:13 One day Job's sons and daughters were at their oldest brother's house. They were enjoying good food and drinking wine. 
Job1:14 During that time a messenger came to Job. He said, ""The oxen were plowing. The donkeys were eating grass near them." 
Job1:15 Then the Sabeans attacked us and carried the animals off. They killed some of the servants with their swords. I'm the only one who has escaped to tell you! 
Job1:16 While he was still speaking, a second messenger came. He said, ""God sent lightning from the sky. It struck the sheep and killed them. It burned up some of the servants. I'm the only one who has escaped to tell you!""" 
Job1:17 While he was still speaking, a third messenger came. He said, ""The Chaldeans separated themselves into three groups. They attacked your camels and carried them off. They killed the rest of the servants with their swords. I'm the only one who has escaped to tell you!""" 
Job1:18 While he was still speaking, a fourth messenger came. He said, ""Your sons and daughters were at their oldest brother's house. They were enjoying good food and drinking wine." 
Job1:19 Suddenly a strong wind blew in from the desert. It struck the four corners of the house. The house fell down on your children. Now all of them are dead. I'm the only one who has escaped to tell you! 
Job1:20 After Job heard all of those reports, he got up and tore his robe. He shaved his head. Then he fell to the ground and worshiped the Lord." 
Job1:21 He said, ""I was born naked. And I'll leave here naked. You have given, and you have taken away. May your name be praised.""" 
Job1:22 In spite of everything, Job didn't sin by blaming God for doing anything wrong." 
Job2:1 On another day angels came to the Lord. Satan also came to him along with them. 
Job2:2 The Lord said to Satan, ""Where have you come from?"" Satan answered, ""From traveling all around the earth. I've been going from one end of it to the other.""" 
Job2:3 Then the Lord said to Satan, ""Have you thought about my servant Job? There isn't anyone on earth like him. He is honest. He does what is right. He has respect for me and avoids evil. You tried to turn me against him. You wanted me to destroy him without any reason. But he still continues to be faithful.""" 
Job2:4 Satan replied, ""A man will give everything he has to save himself. So Job is willing to give up the lives of his family to save his own life." 
Job2:5 But reach out your hand and strike his flesh and bones. Then I'm sure he will speak evil things against you. In fact, he'll do it right in front of you.""" 
Job2:6 The Lord said to Satan, ""All right. I am handing him over to you. But you must spare his life.""" 
Job2:7 Then Satan left the Lord and went on his way. He sent painful sores on Job. They covered him from the bottom of his feet to the top of his head. 
Job2:8 He got part of a broken pot. He used it to scrape his skin. He did it while he was sitting in ashes. 
Job2:9 His wife said to him, ""Are you still continuing to be faithful to the Lord? Speak evil things against him and die!""" 
Job2:10 Job replied, ""You are talking like a foolish woman. We accept good things from God. So we should also accept trouble when he sends it."" In spite of everything, Job didn't say anything that was sinful." 
Job2:11 Job had three friends named Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. They heard about all of the troubles that had come to Job. So they started out from their homes. They had agreed to meet together. They wanted to go and show their concern for Job. They wanted to comfort him." 
Job2:12 When they got closer to where he lived, they could see him. But they could hardly recognize him. They began to sob out loud. They tore their robes and sprinkled dust on their heads." 
Job2:13 Then they sat down on the ground with him for seven days and seven nights. No one said a word to him. That's because they saw how much he was suffering. 
Job3:1 After a while, Job opened his mouth to speak. He called down a curse on the day he had been born." 
Job3:2 He said," 
Job3:3 May the day I was born be wiped out. May the night be wiped away when people said, 'A boy is born!'" 
Job3:4 May that day turn into darkness. May God in heaven not care about it. May no light shine on it. 
Job3:5 May darkness and deep shadow take it back. May a cloud settle over it. May blackness cover up its light. 
Job3:6 May deep darkness take over the night I was born. May it not be included among the days of the year. May it never appear in any of the months. 
Job3:7 May no children ever have been born on that night. May no shout of joy be heard in it. 
Job3:8 May people call down a curse on that day. May those who are ready to wake up the sea monster Leviathan curse that day. 
Job3:9 May its morning stars become dark. May it lose all hope of ever seeing daylight. May it not see the first light of the morning sun. 
Job3:10 It didn't keep my mother from letting me be born. It didn't keep my eyes from seeing trouble. 
Job3:11 Why didn't I die when I was born? Why didn't I die as I came out of my mother's body? 
Job3:12 Why was I placed on her knees? Why did her breasts give me milk? 
Job3:13 If all of that hadn't happened, I would be lying down in peace. I'd be asleep and at rest in the grave." 
Job3:14 I'd be with the earth's kings and advisers. They had built for themselves places that are now destroyed. 
Job3:15 I'd be with rulers who used to have gold. They had filled their houses with silver. 
Job3:16 Why wasn't I buried like a baby who was born dead? Why wasn't I buried like a child who never saw the light of day? 
Job3:17 In the grave, sinful people don't cause trouble anymore. And there those who are tired find rest." 
Job3:18 Prisoners also enjoy peace there. They don't hear a slave driver shouting at them anymore. 
Job3:19 The least important and most important people are there. And there the slaves are set free from their owners. 
Job3:20 Why is the light that leads to life given to those who suffer? Why is it given to those whose spirits are bitter? 
Job3:21 Why is life given to those who long for death that doesn't come? Why is it given to those who would rather search for death than for hidden treasure? 
Job3:22 Why is life given to those who are actually happy and glad when they reach the grave? 
Job3:23 Why is life given to a man like me? God hasn't told me what will happen to me. He has surrounded me with nothing but trouble. 
Job3:24 I sigh instead of eating food. Groans pour out of me like water. 
Job3:25 What I was afraid of has come on me. What I worried about has happened to me. 
Job3:26 I don't have any peace and quiet. I can't find any rest. All I have is trouble. 
Job4:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite replied," 
Job4:2 Job, suppose someone tries to talk to you. Will that make you uneasy? I can't keep from speaking up." 
Job4:3 Look, you taught many people. You made weak hands strong." 
Job4:4 Your words helped those who had fallen down. You made shaky knees strong. 
Job4:5 Now trouble comes to you. And you are unhappy about it. It strikes you down. And you are afraid. 
Job4:6 Shouldn't you worship God and trust in him? Shouldn't your honest life give you hope? 
Job4:7 Here's something to think about. Have blameless people ever been wiped out? Have honest people ever been completely destroyed? 
Job4:8 Here's what I've observed. People gather a crop from what they plant. If they plant evil and trouble, that's what they will harvest." 
Job4:9 The breath of God destroys them. The blast of his anger wipes them out. 
Job4:10 Powerful lions might roar and growl. But their teeth are broken. 
Job4:11 Lions die because they don't have any food. Then their cubs are scattered. 
Job4:12 A message came to me in secret. It was as quiet as a whisper. 
Job4:13 I had a scary dream one night. I was sound asleep. 
Job4:14 Fear and trembling grabbed hold of me. That made every bone in my body shake. 
Job4:15 A spirit glided past my face. The hair on my body stood on end. 
Job4:16 Then the spirit stopped. But I couldn't tell what it was. Something stood there in front of me. I heard a soft voice. 
Job4:17 It said, 'Can a human being be more right than God? Can a mere man be more pure than the One who made him?" 
Job4:18 God doesn't trust those who serve him. He even brings charges against his angels. 
Job4:19 So he'll certainly find fault with human beings. After all, they are made out of dust. They can be crushed more easily than a moth." 
Job4:20 Between sunrise and sunset they are broken to pieces. Nobody even notices. They disappear forever. 
Job4:21 Like a tent that falls down, they get weak. They die because they didn't follow God's wisdom.' """ 
Job5:1 Eliphaz continued, ""Call out if you want to, Job. But who will answer you? Which one of the holy angels will you turn to?" 
Job5:2 Anger kills foolish people. Jealousy destroys those who are childish. 
Job5:3 I saw that foolish people were having success. But suddenly a curse came down on their houses. 
Job5:4 Their children aren't safe at all. They lose their case in court. No one speaks up for them. 
Job5:5 Hungry people eat up the crops of those who are foolish. They even take the food that grows among thorns. Thirsty people long for the wealth of the foolish. 
Job5:6 Hard times don't just grow out of the soil. Trouble doesn't jump out of the ground. 
Job5:7 People are born to have trouble. And that's just as sure as sparks fly up. 
Job5:8 If I were you, I'd make my appeal to God. I'd bring my case to be judged by him." 
Job5:9 He does wonderful things that can't be understood. He does miracles that can't even be counted. 
Job5:10 He sends rain on the earth. He sends water on the countryside. 
Job5:11 He lifts up those who are lowly in spirit. He lifts up those who are sad. He keeps them safe. 
Job5:12 He stops those who are tricky from doing what they plan to do. The work of their hands doesn't succeed. 
Job5:13 Some people think they are so wise. But God catches them in their own tricks. He sweeps away the evil plans of sinful people. 
Job5:14 Darkness covers them in the daytime. At noon they feel their way around as if it were night. 
Job5:15 God saves needy people from the cutting words of their enemies. He saves them from their powerful hands. 
Job5:16 So those who are poor have hope. And God shuts the mouths of people who don't treat others fairly. 
Job5:17 Blessed is the person God corrects. So don't hate the Mighty One's training. 
Job5:18 He wounds. But he also bandages up those he wounds. He harms. But his hands also heal those he harms. 
Job5:19 From six troubles he will save you. Even if you are in trouble seven times, no harm will come to you." 
Job5:20 When there isn't enough food, God will keep you from dying. When you go into battle, he won't let a sword strike you down." 
Job5:21 He will keep you safe from words that can hurt you. You won't need to be afraid when everything is being destroyed. 
Job5:22 You will laugh when things are being destroyed. You will enjoy life even when there isn't enough food. You won't be afraid of wild animals. 
Job5:23 You will make a covenant with the stones in the fields. They won't keep your crops from growing. Even wild animals will be at peace with you. 
Job5:24 You will know that the tent you live in is secure. You will check out your property. You will see that nothing is missing. 
Job5:25 You can be sure you will have a lot of children. They will be as many as the blades of grass on the earth. 
Job5:26 You will go down to the grave while you are still very strong. You will be like a crop that is gathered at the right time. 
Job5:27 We have carefully studied all of those things. And they are true. So pay attention to them. Apply them to yourself. 
Job6:1 Job replied," 
Job6:2 I wish my great pain could be weighed! I wish all of my suffering could be weighed on scales! 
Job6:3 I'm sure they would weigh more than the grains of sand on the seashore. No wonder I've been so quick to speak! 
Job6:4 The Mighty One has shot me with his arrows. I have to drink their poison. God's terrors are aimed at me. 
Job6:5 Does a wild donkey cry out when it has enough grass? Does an ox call out when it has plenty of food? 
Job6:6 Is food that doesn't have any taste eaten without salt? Is there any flavor in the white of an egg? 
Job6:7 I refuse to touch that kind of food. It makes me sick. 
Job6:8 I wish I could have what I'm asking for! I wish God would give me what I'm hoping for! 
Job6:9 I wish he would crush me! I wish his powerful hand would cut off my life! 
Job6:10 Then I'd still have one thing to comfort me. It would be that I haven't said no to the Holy One's commands. That would give me joy in spite of my pain that never ends. 
Job6:11 I'm so weak that I no longer have any hope. Things have gotten so bad that I can't wait for help anymore. 
Job6:12 Am I as strong as stone? Is my body made out of bronze? 
Job6:13 I don't have the power to help myself. All hope of success has been taken away from me. 
Job6:14 A man's friends should love him when his hope is gone. They should be faithful to him even if he stops showing respect for the Mighty One. 
Job6:15 But my friends aren't faithful to me. They are like streams that only flow for part of the year. They are like rivers that flow over their banks 
Job6:16 when the ice begins to break up. The streams rise when the snow starts to melt. 
Job6:17 But they stop flowing when the dry season comes. They disappear from their stream beds when the weather warms up. 
Job6:18 Groups of traders turn away from their usual paths. They go up into the dry and empty land. And they die there. 
Job6:19 Traders from Tema look for water. Traveling merchants from Sheba also hope to find it. 
Job6:20 They become troubled because they had expected to find some. But when they arrive at the stream beds, they don't find any water at all." 
Job6:21 And now, my friends, you haven't helped me either. You see the horrible condition I'm in. And that makes you afraid." 
Job6:22 I've never said, 'Give me something to help me. Use your wealth to set me free." 
Job6:23 Save me from the powerful hand of my enemy. Set me free from the power of mean people.' 
Job6:24 Teach me. Then I'll be quiet. Show me what I've done wrong. 
Job6:25 Honest words are so painful! But your reasoning doesn't prove anything. 
Job6:26 Are you trying to correct what I'm saying? You are treating the words of this hopeless man like nothing but wind. 
Job6:27 You would even cast lots for those whose fathers have died. You would even trade away your closest friend. 
Job6:28 But now please look at me. Would I tell you a lie right here in front of you? 
Job6:29 Stop what you are saying. Don't be so unfair. Think it over again. You are trying to take my honesty away from me. 
Job6:30 Has my mouth spoken anything that is evil? Do my lips say things that are hateful? 
Job7:1 Job continued, ""Doesn't every man have to work hard on this earth? Aren't his days like the days of a hired worker?" 
Job7:2 I've been like a slave who longs for the evening shadows to come. I've been like a hired worker who can hardly wait to get paid. 
Job7:3 I've been given several months that were useless to me. My nights have been filled with suffering. 
Job7:4 When I lie down I think, 'How long will it be before I can get up?' The night drags on. I toss and turn until sunrise." 
Job7:5 My body is covered with worms and sores. My skin is broken. It has boils all over it. 
Job7:6 My days pass by faster than a weaver can work. They come to an end. I don't have any hope. 
Job7:7 God, remember that my life is only a breath. I'll never be happy again." 
Job7:8 The eyes that see me now won't see me anymore. You will look for me. But I'll be gone. 
Job7:9 When a cloud disappears, it's gone forever. And anyone who goes down to the grave never returns." 
Job7:10 He never comes home again. Even his own family doesn't remember him. 
Job7:11 So I won't keep quiet. When I'm suffering greatly, I'll speak out. When my spirit is bitter, I'll tell you how unhappy I am." 
Job7:12 Am I the ocean? Am I the sea monster? If I'm not, why do you guard me so closely?" 
Job7:13 Sometimes I think my bed will comfort me. I think my couch will keep me from being unhappy. 
Job7:14 But even then you send me dreams that frighten me. You send me visions that terrify me. 
Job7:15 So I would rather choke to death. That would be better than living in this body of mine. 
Job7:16 I hate my life. I don't want to live forever. Leave me alone. My days don't mean anything to me. 
Job7:17 What are human beings that you think so much of them? What are they that you pay so much attention to them? 
Job7:18 You check up on them every morning. You put them to the test every moment. 
Job7:19 Won't you ever look away from me? Won't you leave me alone even for one second? 
Job7:20 If I've really sinned, tell me what I've done to you. Why do you watch people so closely? Why do you shoot your arrows at me? Have I become a problem to you?" 
Job7:21 Why don't you forgive the wrong things I've done? Why don't you forgive me for my sins? I'll soon lie down in the dust of my grave. You will search for me. But I'll be gone. 
Job8:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite replied," 
Job8:2 Job, how long will you talk like that? Your words don't have any meaning." 
Job8:3 Does God ever treat people unfairly? Does the Mighty One make what is wrong appear to be right? 
Job8:4 Your children sinned against him. So he punished them for their sin. 
Job8:5 But look to God. Make your appeal to the Mighty One. 
Job8:6 Be pure and honest. And he will rise up and help you now. He'll return you to the place where you belong. 
Job8:7 In the past, things went well with you. But in days to come, things will get even better." 
Job8:8 Find out what your people who lived long ago taught. Discover what those who lived before them learned. 
Job8:9 After all, we were born only yesterday. So we don't know anything. Our days on this earth are like a shadow that disappears." 
Job8:10 Won't your people of long ago teach you and tell you? Won't the things they said help you understand? 
Job8:11 Can grass grow tall where there isn't any swamp? Can plants grow well where there isn't any water? 
Job8:12 While they are still growing and haven't been cut, they dry up faster than grass does." 
Job8:13 The same thing happens to everyone who forgets God. The hope of ungodly people dies out. 
Job8:14 What they trust in is very weak. What they depend on is like a spider's web. 
Job8:15 A person leans on it, but it falls apart. He holds on to it, but it gives way." 
Job8:16 He is like a plant in the sunshine that receives plenty of water. It spreads its new growth all over the garden. 
Job8:17 It wraps its roots around a pile of rocks. It tries to find places to grow among the stones. 
Job8:18 But when a plant is pulled up from its spot, that place says, 'I never saw you.'" 
Job8:19 The life of that plant is sure to dry up. But from the same soil other plants will grow. 
Job8:20 I'm sure God doesn't turn his back on anyone who is honest. And he doesn't help those who do what is evil. 
Job8:21 He will fill your mouth with laughter. Shouts of joy will come from your lips. 
Job8:22 Your enemies will put on shame as if it were clothes. The tents of sinful people will be gone. 
Job9:1 Job replied," 
Job9:2 I'm sure that what you have said is true. But how can human beings be right with God? 
Job9:3 They might wish to argue with him. But they couldn't answer him even once in a thousand times. 
Job9:4 His wisdom is deep. His power is great. No one opposes him and comes away unharmed. 
Job9:5 He moves mountains, and they don't even know it. When he is angry, he turns them upside down." 
Job9:6 He shakes the earth loose from its place. He makes its pillars tremble. 
Job9:7 When he tells the sun not to shine, it doesn't. He turns off the light of the stars." 
Job9:8 He's the only one who can spread the heavens out. He alone can walk on the waves of the ocean. 
Job9:9 He made the Big Dipper and Orion. He created the Pleiades and the southern stars. 
Job9:10 He does wonderful things that can't be understood. He does miracles that can't even be counted. 
Job9:11 When he passes by me, I can't see him. When he goes past me, I can't recognize him." 
Job9:12 If he takes something, who can stop him? Who would dare to ask him, 'What are you doing?'" 
Job9:13 God doesn't hold back his anger. Even the helpers of the sea monster Rahab bowed in fear at his feet. 
Job9:14 So how can I disagree with God? How can I possibly argue with him? 
Job9:15 Even if I hadn't done anything wrong, I couldn't answer him. I could only beg my Judge to have mercy on me." 
Job9:16 Suppose I called out to him and he answered. I don't believe he'd listen to me. 
Job9:17 He would send a storm to crush me. He'd increase my wounds without any reason. 
Job9:18 He wouldn't let me catch my breath. He'd make my life very bitter. 
Job9:19 If it's a matter of strength, he is mighty! And if it's a matter of being fair, who would dare to bring charges against him?" 
Job9:20 Even if I hadn't sinned, what I said would prove me guilty. Even if I were honest, my words would show that I'm wrong." 
Job9:21 Even though I'm honest, I'm not concerned about myself. I hate my own life." 
Job9:22 It all amounts to the same thing. That's why I say, 'God destroys honest people and sinful people alike.'" 
Job9:23 Suppose a plague brings sudden death. Then he laughs when those who haven't sinned lose hope. 
Job9:24 Suppose a nation falls into the power of sinful people. Then God makes its judges blind to the truth. If he isn't the one doing it, who is?" 
Job9:25 God, my days race by like a runner. They fly away without seeing any joy." 
Job9:26 They speed along like papyrus boats. They are like eagles swooping down on their food. 
Job9:27 Suppose I say, 'I'll forget about all of my problems. I'll change my frown into a smile.'" 
Job9:28 Then I'd still be afraid I'd go on suffering. That's because I know you would say I had done something wrong. 
Job9:29 In fact, you have already said I'm guilty. So why should I struggle without any reason?" 
Job9:30 Suppose I clean myself with soap. Suppose I wash my hands with cleanser. 
Job9:31 Even then you would throw me into a muddy pit. And even my clothes would hate me. 
Job9:32 God isn't a man like me. I can't answer him. We can't take each other to court. 
Job9:33 I wish someone would settle matters between us. I wish someone would force us to work things out. 
Job9:34 I wish someone would keep God from punishing me. Then his terror wouldn't frighten me anymore. 
Job9:35 I would speak up without being afraid of him. But as things stand now, I can't do that." 
Job10:1 I'm sick of living. So I'll talk openly about my problems. I'll speak out because my spirit is bitter. 
Job10:2 I'll say to God, 'Don't find me guilty. Instead, tell me what charges you are bringing against me." 
Job10:3 Does it make you happy when you crush me? Does it please you to turn your back on what you have made? While you do those things, you smile on the plans of sinful people!" 
Job10:4 You don't have human eyes. You don't see as people see. 
Job10:5 Your days aren't like the days of a human being. Your years aren't like the years of a mere man. 
Job10:6 So you search for my mistakes. You look for my sin. 
Job10:7 You already know I'm not guilty. No one can save me from your powerful hand. 
Job10:8  'Your hands shaped me and made me. So are you going to destroy me now? 
Job10:9 Remember, you molded me like clay. So are you going to turn me back into dust?" 
Job10:10 Didn't you pour me out like milk? Didn't you form me like cheese? 
Job10:11 Didn't you put skin and flesh on me? Didn't you sew me together with bones and muscles? 
Job10:12 You gave me life. You were kind to me. You took good care of me. You watched over me. 
Job10:13  'But here's what you hid in your heart. Here's what you had on your mind. 
Job10:14 If I sinned, you would be watching me. You wouldn't let me go without punishing me." 
Job10:15 If I were guilty, how terrible that would be for me! Even if I haven't sinned, I can't be proud of what I've done. That's because I'm so full of shame. I'm drowning in my suffering." 
Job10:16 If I become proud, you hunt me down like a lion. You show your mighty power against me." 
Job10:17 You bring new witnesses against me. You become more and more angry with me. You use your power against me again and again. 
Job10:18  'Why did you bring me out of my mother's body? I wish I had died before anyone saw me. 
Job10:19 I wish I'd never been born! I wish I'd been carried straight from my mother's body to the grave! 
Job10:20 Aren't my few days almost over? Leave me so I can have a moment of joy. 
Job10:21 Turn away before I go to the place I can't return from. It's the land of darkness and deep shadow. 
Job10:22 It's the land of darkest night and deep shadow and disorder. There even the light is like darkness.' 
Job11:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite replied," 
Job11:2 Don't all of your words require an answer? I'm sure that what you are saying can't be right. 
Job11:3 Your useless talk won't keep us quiet. Someone has to correct you when you make fun of truth. 
Job11:4 You say to God, 'My beliefs are perfect. I'm pure in your sight.'" 
Job11:5 I wish God would speak. I wish he'd answer you. 
Job11:6 I wish he'd show you the secrets of wisdom. After all, true wisdom has two sides. Here's what I want you to know. God has forgotten some of your sins." 
Job11:7 Do you know how deep the mysteries of God are? Can you discover the limits of the Mighty One's knowledge? 
Job11:8 They are higher than the heavens. What can you do? They are deeper than the deepest grave. What can you know? 
Job11:9 They are longer than the earth. They are wider than the ocean. 
Job11:10 Suppose God comes along and puts you in prison. Suppose he takes you to court. Then who can oppose him? 
Job11:11 He certainly knows when people tell lies. When he sees evil, he pays careful attention to it." 
Job11:12 A wild donkey's colt can't be born a human being. And a man who doesn't have any sense can't become wise. 
Job11:13 So commit yourself to God completely. Reach out your hands to him for help. 
Job11:14 Get rid of all of the sin you have. Don't let anything that is evil stay in your tent. 
Job11:15 Then you can face others without feeling any shame. You can stand firm without being afraid. 
Job11:16 You can be sure you will forget your troubles. They will be like water that has flowed on by. 
Job11:17 Life will be brighter than the sun at noon. And darkness will become like morning. 
Job11:18 You will be secure, because there is hope. You will look around you and find a safe place to rest." 
Job11:19 You will lie down, and no one will make you afraid. Many people will want you to show them your favor." 
Job11:20 But sinful people won't find what they are looking for. They won't be able to escape. All they can hope for is to die. 
Job12:1 Job replied," 
Job12:2 You people think you know everything, don't you? You are sure that wisdom will die with you!" 
Job12:3 But I have a brain, just like you. I'm as clever as you are. In fact, everyone knows as much as you do." 
Job12:4 My friends laugh at me all the time, even though I called out to God and he answered. My friends laugh at me, even though I'm honest and right." 
Job12:5 People who have an easy life look down on those who have problems. They think trouble comes only to those whose feet are slipping. 
Job12:6 Why doesn't anyone bother the tents of robbers? Why do those who make God angry remain secure? They carry the statues of their gods in their hands! 
Job12:7 But ask the animals what God does. They will teach you. Or ask the birds of the air. They will tell you. 
Job12:8 Or speak to the earth. It will teach you. Or let the fish of the ocean educate you. 
Job12:9 Are there any of those creatures that don't know what the powerful hand of the Lord has done? 
Job12:10 He holds the life of every creature in his hand. He controls the breath of every human being. 
Job12:11 Our tongues tell us what tastes good and what doesn't. And our ears tell us what's true and what isn't. 
Job12:12 Old people are wise. Those who live a long time have understanding. 
Job12:13 Wisdom and power belong to God. Advice and understanding also belong to him. 
Job12:14 What he tears down can't be rebuilt. Any man he puts in prison can't be set free. 
Job12:15 If he holds back the water, everything dries up. If he lets the water loose, it floods the land." 
Job12:16 Strength and success belong to him. Those who tell lies and those who believe them also belong to him. 
Job12:17 He removes the wisdom of advisers and leads them away. He makes judges look foolish. 
Job12:18 He sets people free from the chains that kings put on them. Then he dresses the kings in the clothes of slaves. 
Job12:19 He removes the authority of priests and leads them away. He removes from their positions those who have been in control for a long time. 
Job12:20 He shuts the mouths of trusted advisers. He takes away the understanding of elders. 
Job12:21 He looks down on proud leaders. He takes away the strength of those who are mighty. 
Job12:22 He tells people the secrets of darkness. He brings evil plans out into the light. 
Job12:23 He makes nations great, and then he destroys them. He makes nations grow, and then he scatters them." 
Job12:24 He takes away the understanding of the leaders of the earth. He makes them wander in a desert where no one lives. 
Job12:25 Without any light, they feel their way along in darkness. God makes them unsteady like those who get drunk." 
Job13:1 My eyes have seen everything God has done. My ears have heard it and understood it. 
Job13:2 What you know, I also know. I'm as clever as you are." 
Job13:3 In fact, I long to speak to the Mighty One. I want to argue my case with God." 
Job13:4 But you spread lies about me and take away my good name. If you are trying to heal me, you aren't very good doctors!" 
Job13:5 I wish you would keep your mouths shut! Then people would think you were wise. 
Job13:6 Listen to my case. Listen as I make my appeal. 
Job13:7 Will you say evil things in order to help God? Will you tell lies for him? 
Job13:8 Do you want to be on God's side? Will you argue his case for him? 
Job13:9 Would it turn out well if he looked you over carefully? Could you fool him as you fool others? 
Job13:10 He would certainly correct you if you took his side in secret. 
Job13:11 Wouldn't his glory terrify you? Wouldn't the fear of him fall on you? 
Job13:12 Your sayings are as useless as ashes. The answers you give are as weak as clay. 
Job13:13 So be quiet and let me speak. Then I won't care what happens to me. 
Job13:14 Why do I put myself in danger? Why do I take my life in my hands? 
Job13:15 Even if God kills me, I'll still put my hope in him. I'll argue my case in front of him." 
Job13:16 No matter how things turn out, I'm sure I'll still be saved. After all, no ungodly person would dare to come into his court." 
Job13:17 Listen carefully to what I'm saying. Pay close attention to my words. 
Job13:18 I've prepared my case. And I know I'll be proved right. 
Job13:19 Can others bring charges against me? If they can, I'll keep quiet and die." 
Job13:20 God, I won't hide from you. Here are the only two things I want." 
Job13:21 Keep your powerful hand far away from me. And stop making me so afraid. 
Job13:22 Then send for me, and I'll answer. Or let me speak, and you reply." 
Job13:23 How many things have I done wrong? How many sins have I committed? Show me my crime. Show me my sin. 
Job13:24 Why do you turn your face away from me? Why do you think of me as your enemy? 
Job13:25 I'm already like a leaf that is blown by the wind. Are you going to terrify me even more? I'm already like dry straw. Are you going to keep on chasing me? 
Job13:26 You write down bitter things against me. You make me suffer for the sins I committed when I was young. 
Job13:27 You put my feet in chains. You watch every step I take. You do it by putting marks on the bottom of my feet. 
Job13:28 People waste away like something that is rotten. They are like clothes that are eaten by moths. 
Job14:1 They have only a few days to live. Their lives are full of trouble. 
Job14:2 They grow like flowers, and then they dry up. They are like shadows that quickly disappear." 
Job14:3 God, why do you keep looking at someone like me? Are you planning to take me to court?" 
Job14:4 Who can bring what is pure from something that isn't pure? No one! 
Job14:5 You decide how long anyone will live. You have established the number of his months. You have set a limit to the number of his days. 
Job14:6 So look away from him. Leave him alone. Let him put in his time like a hired worker. 
Job14:7 At least there is hope for a tree. If it's cut down, it will begin to grow again. New branches will appear on it." 
Job14:8 Its roots may grow old in the ground. Its stump may die in the soil. 
Job14:9 But when it smells water, it will begin to grow. It will send out new growth like a plant." 
Job14:10 No man is like that. When he dies, he is buried in a grave. He takes his last breath. Then he is gone." 
Job14:11 Water disappears from lakes. Riverbeds become empty and dry. 
Job14:12 In the same way, a man lies down and never gets up. He won't wake up or rise from his sleep until the heavens are gone." 
Job14:13 I wish you would hide me in a grave! I wish you would cover me up until your anger passes by! I wish you would set the time for me to spend in the grave and then bring me back up! 
Job14:14 If a man dies, will he live again? All the days of my hard work I will wait for the time when you give me new life." 
Job14:15 You will call out to me, and I will answer you. Your hands created me. So you will long for me." 
Job14:16 Then you will count every step I take. But you won't keep track of my sin. 
Job14:17 The wrong things I've done will be sealed up in a bag. You will wipe out my sins by forgiving them. 
Job14:18 A mountain wears away and crumbles. A rock is moved from its place. 
Job14:19 Water wears stones away. Storms wash soil away. In the same way, you destroy our hope." 
Job14:20 You overpower us completely, and then we're gone. You change the way we look and send us to our graves." 
Job14:21 If our children are honored, we don't even know it. If they are dishonored, we don't even see it." 
Job14:22 All we feel is the pain of our own bodies. We are full of sadness only for ourselves. 
Job15:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite replied," 
Job15:2 Job, if you were wise, would you answer us with a lot of meaningless talk? Would you fill your stomach with the hot east wind?" 
Job15:3 Would you argue with useless words? Would you give worthless speeches? 
Job15:4 But you even cause others to lose their respect for God. You make it hard for them to be faithful to him. 
Job15:5 Your sin makes you say evil things. You talk like people who twist the truth. 
Job15:6 Your own mouth judges you, not mine. Your own lips witness against you." 
Job15:7 Are you the first man who was ever born? Were you created before the hills? 
Job15:8 Do you listen in when God speaks with his angels? Do you think you are the only wise person? 
Job15:9 What do you know that we don't know? What understanding do you have that we don't have? 
Job15:10 People who are old and gray are on our side. And they are even older than your parents! 
Job15:11 Aren't God's words of comfort enough for you? He speaks them to you gently. 
Job15:12 Why have you let your wild ideas carry you away? Why do your eyes flash with anger? 
Job15:13 Why do you get so angry with God? Why do words like those pour out of your mouth? 
Job15:14 Can human beings really be pure? Can mere men really be right with God? 
Job15:15 God doesn't trust his holy angels. Even the heavens aren't pure in his sight. 
Job15:16 So he'll certainly find fault with human beings. After all, they are evil and sinful. They drink up evil as if it were water." 
Job15:17 Listen to me. I'll explain things to you. Let me tell you what I've seen. 
Job15:18 I'll tell you what those who are wise have said. They don't hide anything they've received from their people of long ago. 
Job15:19 The land was given only to those people. Their wisdom didn't come from outsiders. And here's what those who are wise have said. 
Job15:20 Sinful people always suffer pain. Mean people suffer all their lives. 
Job15:21 Terrifying sounds fill their ears. When everything seems to be going well, robbers attack them." 
Job15:22 They lose all hope of escaping the darkness of death. They will certainly be killed with swords. 
Job15:23 They wander around. They are like food for vultures. They know that the day they will die is near. 
Job15:24 Suffering and pain terrify them. Their troubles overpower them, like a king ready to attack his enemies." 
Job15:25 They shake their fists at God. They brag about themselves and oppose the Mighty One. 
Job15:26 They boldly charge against him with their thick, strong shields." 
Job15:27 Their faces are very fat. Their stomachs hang out. 
Job15:28 They'll live in towns that have been destroyed. They'll live in houses where no one else lives. The houses will crumble to pieces. 
Job15:29 They won't be rich anymore. Their wealth won't last. Their property will no longer spread out over the land. 
Job15:30 They won't escape the darkness of death. A flame will dry up everything they have. The breath of God will blow them away. 
Job15:31 Don't let them fool themselves by trusting in what is worthless. They won't get anything out of it. 
Job15:32 Even before they die, they'll be paid back in full. No matter what they do, it won't succeed." 
Job15:33 They'll be like vines that are stripped of their unripe grapes. They'll be like olive trees that drop their flowers. 
Job15:34 People who are ungodly won't have any children. Fire will burn up the tents of people who accept money from those who want special favors. 
Job15:35 Instead of having children, ungodly people create suffering. All they produce is evil. They are full of lies.""" 
Job16:1 Job replied," 
Job16:2 I've heard many of those things before. You are terrible at comforting me! 
Job16:3 Your speeches go on forever. Won't they ever end? What's wrong with you? Why do you keep on arguing? 
Job16:4 If you and I changed places, I could say the same things you are saying. I could make fine speeches against you. I could shake my head at you." 
Job16:5 But what I might say would give you hope. My words of comfort would help you. 
Job16:6 If I speak, it doesn't help me. And if I keep quiet, my pain doesn't go away." 
Job16:7 God has worn me out completely. He has destroyed my whole family. 
Job16:8 People can see the condition he has put me in. My thin body stands as a witness against me. 
Job16:9 God is angry with me. He attacks me and tears me up. He grinds his teeth at me. He stares at me as if he were my enemy. 
Job16:10 People make fun of me. They slap my face and laugh at me. All of them join together against me. 
Job16:11 God has turned me over to sinful people. He has handed me over to them. 
Job16:12 Everything was going well with me. But he broke me into pieces like a clay pot. He grabbed me by the neck and crushed me. He has taken aim at me. 
Job16:13 He shoots his arrows at me from all sides. Without pity, he stabs me in the kidneys. He spills my insides on the ground." 
Job16:14 He smashes through me as if I were a wall. He rushes at me like a fighting man. 
Job16:15 I've sewed black cloth over my skin. All I can do is sit here in the dust. 
Job16:16 My face is red from crying. I have deep circles under my eyes. 
Job16:17 But I haven't harmed anyone. My prayers to God are pure. 
Job16:18 Earth, please don't cover up my blood! May God always hear my cry for help!" 
Job16:19 Even now my witness is in heaven. The one who speaks up for me is there. 
Job16:20 My go-between is my friend as I pour out my tears to God. 
Job16:21 He makes his appeal to God to help me as a man begs someone to help his friend. 
Job16:22 Only a few years will pass by. Then I'll go on a journey I won't return from. 
Job17:1 My strength is almost gone. I won't live much longer. A grave is waiting for me. 
Job17:2 People who make fun of me are all around me. I'm forced to watch as they attack me with their words. 
Job17:3 God, please pay the price to have me set free. Who else would put up money for me?" 
Job17:4 You have closed the minds of those who are trying to comfort me. They don't understand that I haven't done anything wrong. So don't let them win the argument. 
Job17:5 Suppose a man tells lies about his friends to get a reward. Then his own children will suffer for it. 
Job17:6 God has made everyone laugh at me. People spit in my face. 
Job17:7 My eyes have grown weak because I'm so sad. My body is so thin it hardly casts a shadow. 
Job17:8 Those who claim to be honest are shocked when they see me. Those who think they haven't sinned are stirred up against me. They think I'm ungodly. 
Job17:9 But godly people will keep doing what is right. Those who have clean hands will grow stronger. 
Job17:10 Come on, all of you! Try again! I can't find a wise person among you." 
Job17:11 My life is almost over. My plans are destroyed. And so are the longings of my heart. 
Job17:12 People like you turn night into day. Even though it's dark you say, 'Light is nearby.'" 
Job17:13 Suppose the only home I can hope for is a grave. And suppose I make my bed in the darkness of death. 
Job17:14 Suppose I say to the grave, 'You are like a father to me.' And suppose I say to its worms, 'You are like a mother or sister to me.'" 
Job17:15 Then what hope do I have? Who can give me any hope? 
Job17:16 Will hope go down to the gates of death with me? Will we go down together into the dust of the grave? 
Job18:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite replied," 
Job18:2 Job, when will you stop these speeches of yours? Be reasonable! Then we can talk." 
Job18:3 Why do you look at us as if we were cattle? Why do you think of us as being stupid? 
Job18:4 Your anger is tearing you to pieces. Does the earth have to be deserted just to prove you are right? Must all of the rocks be moved from their places? 
Job18:5 The lamps of sinful people are blown out. Their flames will never burn again. 
Job18:6 The lights in their tents become dark. The lamps beside those who are evil go out. 
Job18:7 They walk more slowly than they used to. Their own evil plans make them fall. 
Job18:8 Their feet take them into a net. They wander right into it. 
Job18:9 A trap grabs hold of their heels. It refuses to let them go. 
Job18:10 A trap lies in their path. A rope to catch them is hidden on the ground. 
Job18:11 Terrors alarm them on every side. They follow them every step of the way. 
Job18:12 Trouble would like to eat them up. Danger waits for them when they fall. 
Job18:13 It eats away parts of their skin. Death itself feeds on their arms and legs. 
Job18:14 They are torn away from the safety of their tents. They are marched off to the one who rules over death. 
Job18:15 Fire races through their tents. Burning sulfur is scattered over their homes. 
Job18:16 Their roots dry up under them. Their branches dry up above them. 
Job18:17 No one on earth remembers them. Their names are forgotten in the land. 
Job18:18 They are driven from light into darkness. They are thrown out of the world. 
Job18:19 Their family dies out among their people. No one is left where they used to live. 
Job18:20 What has happened to them shocks the people in the west. It terrifies the people in the east. 
Job18:21 Now you know what the homes of sinners are like. Those who don't know God live in places like that. 
Job19:1 Job replied," 
Job19:2 How long will you people make me suffer? How long will you crush me with your words? 
Job19:3 You have already made fun of me many times. You have attacked me without feeling any shame. 
Job19:4 Suppose it's true that I've gone down the wrong path. Then it's my concern, not yours." 
Job19:5 Suppose you want to place yourselves above me. Suppose you want to use my shame to prove I'm wrong. 
Job19:6 Then I want you to know that God hasn't treated me right. In fact, he has captured me in his net." 
Job19:7 I cry out, 'Someone harmed me!' But I don't get any reply. I call out for help. But I'm not treated fairly." 
Job19:8 God has blocked my way, and I can't get through. He has made my paths so dark I can't see where I'm going." 
Job19:9 He has taken my wealth away from me. He has stripped me of my honor. 
Job19:10 He tears me down on every side until I'm gone. He pulls up the roots of my hope as if I were a tree. 
Job19:11 His anger burns against me. He thinks I'm one of his enemies. 
Job19:12 His troops march toward me in force. They come at me from every direction. They camp around my tent. 
Job19:13 God has caused my brothers to desert me. The people I used to know are now strangers to me. 
Job19:14 My family has gone away. My friends have forgotten me. 
Job19:15 My guests and my female servants think of me as a stranger. They look at me as if I were an outsider. 
Job19:16 I send for my servant, but he doesn't answer. He doesn't come, even though I beg him to." 
Job19:17 My wife can't stand the way my breath smells. My own relatives won't have anything to do with me. 
Job19:18 Even little children laugh at me. When I appear, they make fun of me." 
Job19:19 All of my close friends hate me. Those I love have turned against me. 
Job19:20 I'm nothing but skin and bones. I've only escaped by the skin of my teeth. 
Job19:21 Have pity on me, my friends! Please have pity! God has struck me down with his powerful hand." 
Job19:22 Why do you chase after me as he does? Aren't you satisfied with what you have done to me already? 
Job19:23 I wish my words were written down! I wish they were written on a scroll! 
Job19:24 I wish they were cut into lead with an iron tool! I wish they were carved in rock forever! 
Job19:25 I know that my Redeemer lives. In the end he will stand on the earth. 
Job19:26 After my skin has been destroyed, in my body I'll still see God." 
Job19:27 I myself will see him with my own eyes. I'll see him, and he won't be a stranger to me. How my heart longs for that day!" 
Job19:28 You might say, 'Let's keep bothering Job. After all, he's the cause of all of his suffering.'" 
Job19:29 But you should be afraid when God comes to judge you. He'll be angry. He'll punish you with his sword. Then you will know that he is the Judge. 
Job20:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite replied," 
Job20:2 My troubled thoughts force me to answer you. That's because I'm very upset. 
Job20:3 What you have just said makes fun of me. So I really have to reply to you. 
Job20:4 I'm sure you must know how things have always been. They've been that way ever since man was placed on this earth. 
Job20:5 Those who are evil are happy for only a short time. The joy of ungodly people lasts only for a moment. 
Job20:6 Their pride might reach all the way up to the heavens. Their heads might touch the clouds. 
Job20:7 But they will disappear forever, like the waste from their own bodies. Anyone who has seen them will say, 'Where did they go?'" 
Job20:8 Like a dream they will fly away. They will never be seen again. They will be driven away like visions in the night. 
Job20:9 The eyes that saw them won't see them anymore. Even their own families won't remember them. 
Job20:10 Their children must pay back what they took from poor people. Their own hands must give back the wealth they stole. 
Job20:11 They might feel young and very strong. But they will soon lie down in the dust of their graves. 
Job20:12 Anything that is evil tastes sweet to them. They keep it under their tongues for a while. 
Job20:13 They can't stand to let it go. So they hold it in their mouths. 
Job20:14 But their food will turn sour in their stomachs. It will become like the poison of a serpent inside them. 
Job20:15 They will spit out the rich food they swallowed. God will make their stomachs throw it up. 
Job20:16 They will suck the poison of a serpent. The fangs of an adder will kill them. 
Job20:17 They won't enjoy streams that flow with honey. They won't enjoy rivers that flow with cream. 
Job20:18 What they worked for they must give back before they can eat it. They won't enjoy what they have earned. 
Job20:19 They've crushed poor people and left them with nothing. They've taken over houses they didn't even build. 
Job20:20 No matter how much they have, they always long for more. But their treasure can't save them." 
Job20:21 There isn't anything left for them to eat up. Their success won't last. 
Job20:22 While they are enjoying the good life, trouble will catch up with them. Terrible suffering will come on them." 
Job20:23 When they've filled their stomachs, God will pour out his burning anger on them. He'll strike them down with blow after blow." 
Job20:24 They might run away from iron weapons. But arrows that have bronze tips will wound them. 
Job20:25 They will pull the arrows out of their backs. They will remove the shining tips from their livers. They will be filled with terror. 
Job20:26 Total darkness hides and waits for their treasures. God will send a fire that will destroy them. It will burn up everything that's left in their tents. 
Job20:27 Heaven will show their guilt to everyone. The earth will be a witness against them. 
Job20:28 A flood will carry their houses away. Rushing water will wash them away on the day when God judges. 
Job20:29 Now you know what God will do to sinful people. Now you know what he has planned for them. 
Job21:1 Job replied," 
Job21:2 Listen carefully to what I'm saying. Let that be the comfort you people give me. 
Job21:3 Put up with me while I speak. After I've spoken, you can make fun of me!" 
Job21:4 I'm not arguing with mere human beings. So why shouldn't I be angry and uneasy? 
Job21:5 Look at me and be amazed. Put your hand over your mouth and stop talking! 
Job21:6 When I think about these things, I'm terrified. My whole body trembles." 
Job21:7 Why do sinful people keep on living? The older they grow, the richer they get." 
Job21:8 They see their children grow up around them. They watch their family increase in number. 
Job21:9 Their homes are safe. They don't have to be afraid. God isn't punishing them. 
Job21:10 Every time their bulls mate, their cows become pregnant. And the calves don't die before they are born." 
Job21:11 Sinful people send their children out like a flock of lambs. Their little ones dance around. 
Job21:12 They sing to the music of tambourines and harps. They have a good time while flutes are being played. 
Job21:13 Those who are evil spend their years living well. They go down to their graves in peace. 
Job21:14 But they say to God, 'Leave us alone! We don't want to know how you want us to live." 
Job21:15 Who is the Mighty One? Why should we serve him? What would we get if we prayed to him?' 
Job21:16 But they aren't in control of their own success. So I don't pay any attention to the advice they give. 
Job21:17 How often are their lamps blown out? How often does trouble come on them? How often does God punish them when he's angry? 
Job21:18 How often are they like dried-up seed coverings blowing in the wind? How often are they like straw swept away by a storm? 
Job21:19 People say, 'God punishes a man's children for his sins.' But let him punish the man himself. Then he'll learn a lesson from it." 
Job21:20 Let his own eyes see how he is destroyed. Let him drink the wine of the Mighty One's anger. 
Job21:21 What does he care about the family he leaves behind? What does he care about them when his life comes to an end? 
Job21:22 Can anyone teach God anything? After all, he judges even the angels in heaven." 
Job21:23 Some people die while they are still very strong. They are completely secure. They have an easy life. 
Job21:24 They are well fed. Their bodies are healthy. 
Job21:25 Others die while their spirits are bitter. They've never enjoyed anything good. 
Job21:26 Side by side they lie in the dust of death. The worms in their graves cover all of them. 
Job21:27 I know exactly what you people are thinking. I know you are planning to do bad things to me. 
Job21:28 You are saying to yourselves, 'Where is the great man's house now? Where are the tents where his evil family lived?'" 
Job21:29 Haven't you ever asked questions of those who travel? Haven't you paid any attention to their stories? 
Job21:30 They'll tell you that sinful people are spared from the day of trouble. They'll say that those people are saved from the day when God will judge. 
Job21:31 Who speaks against them for the way they act? Who pays them back for what they've done? 
Job21:32 Their bodies will be carried to their graves. Guards will watch over their tombs. 
Job21:33 The soil in the valley will be pleasant to those who have died. Many people will walk along behind their bodies. Many others will walk in front of them. 
Job21:34 So how can you comfort me with your speeches? They don't make any sense at all. Your answers are nothing but lies! 
Job22:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite replied," 
Job22:2 Can any man be of benefit to God? Can even a wise man be of any help to him? 
Job22:3 Job, what pleasure would it give the Mighty One if you were right? What would he get if you were completely honest?" 
Job22:4 You say you have respect for him. Is that why he corrects you? Is that why he brings charges against you? 
Job22:5 Haven't you done many evil things? Don't you sin again and again? 
Job22:6 You took clothes away from your relatives just because they owed you some money. You left them naked for no reason at all. 
Job22:7 You didn't give any water to people who were tired. You held food back from those who were hungry. 
Job22:8 You did it even though you were honored and powerful. You owned land and lived on it. 
Job22:9 But you sent widows away without anything. You mistreated children whose fathers had died. 
Job22:10 That's why traps have been set all around you. That's why sudden danger terrifies you. 
Job22:11 That's why it's so dark you can't even see. That's why a flood covers you up. 
Job22:12 Isn't God in the highest parts of heaven? See how high the highest stars are! 
Job22:13 But you still say, 'What does God know? Can he see through the darkest clouds to judge us?" 
Job22:14 He goes around in the highest heavens. Thick clouds keep him from seeing us.' 
Job22:15 Will you stay on the old path that sinful people have walked on? 
Job22:16 They were carried off even before they died. Their foundations were washed away by a flood. 
Job22:17 They said to God, 'Leave us alone! What can you do to us, you Mighty One?'" 
Job22:18 But he was the one who filled their houses with good things. So I don't pay any attention to the advice they give. 
Job22:19 Those who do what is right are joyful when they see sinners destroyed. Those who haven't done anything wrong make fun of them. 
Job22:20 They say, 'Our enemies are completely destroyed. Fire has burned up their wealth.'" 
Job22:21 Job, obey God and be at peace with him. Then he will help you succeed." 
Job22:22 Do what he teaches you to do. Keep his words in your heart. 
Job22:23 If you return to the Mighty One, you will have what you had before. But first you must remove everything that is evil far from your tent." 
Job22:24 You must throw your gold nuggets away. You must toss your gold from Ophir into a valley. 
Job22:25 Then the Mighty One himself will be your gold. He'll be like the finest silver to you. 
Job22:26 You will find delight in the Mighty One. You will honor God and trust in him. 
Job22:27 You will pray to him, and he will hear you. You will keep the promises you made to him." 
Job22:28 What you decide to do will be done. Light will shine on the path you take. 
Job22:29 When people are brought low you will say, 'Lift them up!' Then God will help them." 
Job22:30 He'll even save those who are guilty. He'll save them because your hands are clean. 
Job23:1 Job replied," 
Job23:2 Even today my problems are more than I can handle. In spite of my groans, God's hand is heavy on me." 
Job23:3 I wish I knew where I could find him! I wish I could go to the place where he lives! 
Job23:4 I would state my case to him. I'd give him all of my arguments. 
Job23:5 I'd find out what his answers would be. I'd think about what he would say. 
Job23:6 Would he oppose me with his great power? No. He wouldn't bring charges against me. 
Job23:7 I'm an honest person. I could state my case to him. Then my Judge would tell me once and for all that I'm not guilty. 
Job23:8 But if I go to the east, God isn't there. If I go to the west, I don't find him." 
Job23:9 When he's working in the north, I don't see him there. When he turns to the south, I don't see him there either." 
Job23:10 But he knows every step I take. When he has put me to the test, I'll come out as pure as gold." 
Job23:11 My feet have closely followed his steps. I've stayed on his path without turning away. 
Job23:12 I haven't disobeyed his commands. I've treasured his words more than my daily bread. 
Job23:13 But he's the only God. Who can oppose him? He does anything he wants to do. 
Job23:14 He carries out his plans against me. And he still has many other plans just like them. 
Job23:15 That's why I'm so terrified. When I think about all of this, I'm afraid of him." 
Job23:16 God has made my heart weak. The Mighty One has filled me with terror. 
Job23:17 But even the darkness of death won't make me silent. When the darkness of the grave covers my face, I won't be quiet." 
Job24:1 Why doesn't the Mighty One set a time for judging sinful people? Why do those who know him have to keep waiting for that day? 
Job24:2 People move their neighbor's boundary stones. They steal their neighbor's flocks. 
Job24:3 They take away the donkeys that belong to children whose fathers have died. They take a widow's ox until she has paid what she owes. 
Job24:4 They push those who are needy out of their way. They force all of the poor people in the land to go into hiding. 
Job24:5 The poor are like wild donkeys in the desert. They have to go around looking for food. The dry and empty land provides the only food for their children. 
Job24:6 The poor go to the fields and get a little grain. They gather up what is left in the vineyards of sinners. 
Job24:7 The poor don't have any clothes. So they spend the night naked. They don't have anything to cover themselves in the cold. 
Job24:8 They are soaked by mountain rains. They hug the rocks because they don't have anything to keep them warm. 
Job24:9 Children whose fathers have died are torn away from their mothers. A poor person's baby is taken away to pay back what is owed. 
Job24:10 The poor don't have any clothes. They go around naked. They carry bundles of grain, but they still go hungry." 
Job24:11 They work very hard as they crush olives. They stomp on grapes in winepresses, but they are still thirsty." 
Job24:12 The groans of those who are dying are heard from the city. Those who are wounded cry out for help. But God doesn't charge anyone with doing what is wrong. 
Job24:13 Some people hate it when daylight comes. In the daytime they never walk outside. 
Job24:14 When daylight is gone, murderers get up. They kill poor people and those who are in need. In the night they sneak around like robbers." 
Job24:15 Those who commit adultery wait until the sun goes down. They think, 'No one will see us.' They keep their faces hidden." 
Job24:16 In the dark, people break into houses. But by day they shut themselves in. They don't want anything to do with the light." 
Job24:17 The deepest darkness is like morning to them. The terrors of darkness are their friends. 
Job24:18 But sinners are like bubbles on the surface of water. Their share of the land is under God's curse. So no one goes to their vineyards. 
Job24:19 Melted snow disappears when the air is hot and dry. And sinners disappear when they go down into their graves. 
Job24:20 Even their mothers forget them. The worms in their graves eat them up. No one remembers sinful people anymore. They are cut down like trees. 
Job24:21 They mistreat women who aren't able to have children. They aren't kind to widows. 
Job24:22 But God is powerful. He even drags away people who are strong. When he rises up against them, they can never be sure they are safe." 
Job24:23 God might let them rest and feel secure. But his eyes see how they live. 
Job24:24 For a little while they are honored. Then they are gone. They are brought low. And they die like everyone else. They are cut off like heads of grain. 
Job24:25 Who can prove that what I'm saying is wrong? Who can prove that my words aren't true? 
Job25:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite replied," 
Job25:2 God is King. He should be feared. He establishes peace in the highest parts of heaven. 
Job25:3 Can anyone count his troops? Is there anyone his light doesn't shine on? 
Job25:4 How can human beings be right with God? How can mere people really be pure? 
Job25:5 Even the moon isn't bright and the stars aren't pure in God's eyes. 
Job25:6 So how about human beings? They are like maggots. How about mere people? They are like worms. 
Job26:1 Job replied," 
Job26:2 Bildad, you haven't helped people who aren't strong! You haven't saved people who are weak!" 
Job26:3 You haven't offered advice to those who aren't wise! In fact, you haven't understood anything at all!" 
Job26:4 Who helped you say those things? Whose spirit was speaking through you? 
Job26:5 The spirits of the dead are suffering greatly. So are those that are under the waters. And so are all those that live in them. 
Job26:6 Death is naked in the sight of God. The Grave lies open in front of him. 
Job26:7 He spreads out the northern skies over empty space. He hangs the earth over nothing. 
Job26:8 He wraps up water in his clouds. They are heavy, but they don't burst." 
Job26:9 He covers the face of the full moon. He spreads his clouds over it. 
Job26:10 He marks out the place where the sky meets the sea. He marks out the boundary between light and darkness. 
Job26:11 The pillars of the heavens shake. They are terrified when his anger blazes out. 
Job26:12 With his power he stirred up the oceans. In his wisdom he cut the sea monster Rahab to pieces. 
Job26:13 His breath made the skies bright and clear. His hand wounded the serpent that glides through the sea. 
Job26:14 Those are only on the edges of what he does. They are only the soft whispers that we hear from him. So who can understand how very powerful he is? 
Job27:1 Job continued to speak. He said," 
Job27:2 God hasn't treated me fairly. The Mighty One has made my spirit bitter. You can be sure that God lives. And here's something else you can be sure of. 
Job27:3 As long as I have life and God gives me breath," 
Job27:4 my mouth won't say evil things. My lips won't tell lies. 
Job27:5 I'll never admit you people are right. Until I die, I'll say I'm telling the truth." 
Job27:6 I'll continue to say I'm right. I'll never let go of that. I won't blame myself as long as I live. 
Job27:7 May my enemies suffer like sinful people! May my attackers be punished like those who aren't fair! 
Job27:8 What hope do ungodly people have when their lives are cut off? What hope do they have when God takes away their lives? 
Job27:9 God won't listen to their cry when trouble comes on them. 
Job27:10 They won't take delight in the Mighty One. They'll never call out to God. 
Job27:11 I'll teach all of you about God's power. I won't hide the things the Mighty One does. 
Job27:12 You have seen those things yourselves. So why do you continue your useless talk? 
Job27:13 Here's what God does to sinful people. Here's what those who are mean receive from the Mighty One. 
Job27:14 All of their children will be killed with swords. They'll never have enough to eat. 
Job27:15 A plague will kill those who are left alive. The widows of sinful men won't even sob over their own children. 
Job27:16 Sinners might store up silver like dust and clothes like piles of clay. 
Job27:17 But people who do what is right will wear those clothes. People who haven't done anything wrong will divide up that silver. 
Job27:18 The house an evil person builds is like a moth's cocoon. It's like a hut that's made by someone on guard duty. 
Job27:19 Sinful people lie down wealthy, but their wealth is taken away. When they open their eyes, everything is gone." 
Job27:20 Terrors sweep over them like a flood. A storm takes them away during the night. 
Job27:21 The east wind carries them off, and they are gone. It sweeps them out of their houses." 
Job27:22 It blows against them without mercy. They try to escape from its power. 
Job27:23 It claps its hands and makes fun of them. It hisses them out of their houses. 
Job28:1 There are mines where silver is found. There are places where gold is purified. 
Job28:2 Iron is taken out of the earth. Copper is melted down from ore. 
Job28:3 A miner lights up the darkness. He searches for ore in the deepest pits. He looks for it in the blackest darkness. 
Job28:4 Far from where people live he cuts a tunnel. He does it in places where others don't go. Far away from people he swings back and forth on ropes. 
Job28:5 Food grows on the surface of the earth. But far below, the earth is changed as if by fire." 
Job28:6 Sapphires are taken from its rocks. Its dust contains nuggets of gold. 
Job28:7 No bird knows the miner's hidden path. No falcon's eye has seen it. 
Job28:8 Proud animals don't walk on it. Lions don't prowl there. 
Job28:9 The miner attacks the hardest rock. His strong hands uncover the base of the mountains. 
Job28:10 He tunnels through the rock. His eyes see all of its treasures. 
Job28:11 He searches the places where the rivers begin. He brings hidden things out into the light. 
Job28:12 And where can wisdom be found? Where does understanding live? 
Job28:13 No one knows how much it's worth. It can't be found anywhere in the world. 
Job28:14 The ocean says, 'It's not in me.' The sea says, 'It's not here either.'" 
Job28:15 It can't be bought with the finest gold. Its price can't be weighed out in silver. 
Job28:16 It can't be bought with gold from Ophir. It can't be bought with priceless onyx or sapphires. 
Job28:17 Gold or crystal can't compare with it. It can't be bought with jewels made of gold. 
Job28:18 Don't bother to talk about coral and jasper. Wisdom is worth far more than rubies. 
Job28:19 A topaz from Cush can't compare with it. It can't be bought with the purest gold. 
Job28:20 So where does wisdom come from? Where does understanding live? 
Job28:21 It's hidden from the eyes of every living thing. Even the birds of the air can't find it. 
Job28:22 Death and the Grave say, 'Only reports about it have reached our ears.'" 
Job28:23 But God understands the way to it. He's the only one who knows where it lives. 
Job28:24 He sees from one end of the earth to the other. He views everything in the world. 
Job28:25 He made the mighty wind. He measured out the waters. 
Job28:26 He gave orders for the rain to fall. He made paths for the thunderstorms. 
Job28:27 Then he looked at wisdom and set its price. He established it and put it to the test. 
Job28:28 He said to human beings, 'Have respect for me. That will prove you are wise. Avoid evil. That will show you have understanding.' """ 
Job29:1 Job continued to speak. He said," 
Job29:2 How I long for the good old days! That's when God watched over me. 
Job29:3 The light of his lamp shone on me. I walked through darkness by his light. 
Job29:4 Those were the best days of my life. That's when God's friendship blessed my house. 
Job29:5 The Mighty One was still with me. My children were all around me. 
Job29:6 The path in front of me was like sweet cream. It was as if the rock poured out olive oil for me. 
Job29:7 In those days I went to the city gate. I took my seat as a member of the council. 
Job29:8 Young people who saw me stepped to one side. Old people stood up as I approached. 
Job29:9 The leaders stopped speaking. They covered their mouths with their hands. 
Job29:10 The voices of the nobles became quiet. Their tongues stuck to the roofs of their mouths. 
Job29:11 Everyone who heard me said good things about me. Those who saw me honored me. 
Job29:12 That's because I saved poor people who cried out for help. I saved helpless children whose fathers had died. 
Job29:13 Those who were dying gave me their blessing. I made the hearts of widows sing. 
Job29:14 I put on a godly life as if it were my clothes. Fairness was my robe and my turban. 
Job29:15 I was like eyes for those who were blind. I was like feet for those who couldn't walk. 
Job29:16 I was like a father to needy people. I stood up for strangers in court. 
Job29:17 Sinners are like animals that have powerful teeth. But I took from their mouths the people they had caught. 
Job29:18 I thought, 'I'll die in my own house. The days of my life will be as many as the grains of sand." 
Job29:19 My roots will reach down to the water. The dew will lie all night on my branches. 
Job29:20 I will remain healthy and strong. My bow will stay as good as new in my hand.' 
Job29:21 People wanted to hear what I had to say. They waited silently for the advice I gave them. 
Job29:22 After I had spoken, they didn't speak anymore. My words fell gently on their ears." 
Job29:23 They waited for me just as they would wait for showers. They drank my words just as they would drink the spring rain. 
Job29:24 When I smiled at them, they could hardly believe it. The light of my face lifted their spirits." 
Job29:25 I chose the way they should go. I sat as their chief. I lived as a king lives among his troops. I was like someone who comforts those who are sad. 
Job30:1 But now those who are younger than I am make fun of me. I wouldn't put even their parents with my sheep dogs! 
Job30:2 Their strong hands couldn't give me any help. That's because their strength was gone. 
Job30:3 They were weak because they were needy and hungry. They wandered through dry and empty deserts at night. 
Job30:4 Among the bushes they gathered salty plants. They ate the roots of desert trees. 
Job30:5 They were driven away from society. They were shouted at as if they were robbers. 
Job30:6 They were forced to live in dry stream beds. They had to stay among rocks and in holes in the ground. 
Job30:7 Like donkeys they cried out among the bushes. There they crowded together and hid. 
Job30:8 They were so foolish that no one respected them. They were driven out of the land. 
Job30:9 Now their children laugh at me. They make fun of me with their songs. 
Job30:10 They hate me. They stay away from me. They even dare to spit in my face. 
Job30:11 God has made my body weak. It's like a tent that has fallen down. So those children do what they want to in front of me. 
Job30:12 Many people attack me on my right side. They lay traps for my feet. They come at me from every direction. 
Job30:13 They tear up the road I walk on. They succeed in destroying me. They do it without any help. 
Job30:14 They attack me like troops smashing through a wall. Among the destroyed buildings they come rolling in. 
Job30:15 Terrors sweep over me. My honor is driven away as if by the wind. My safety vanishes like a cloud. 
Job30:16 Now my life is slipping away. Days of suffering grab hold of me. 
Job30:17 At night my bones hurt. My gnawing pains never stop. 
Job30:18 God's great power becomes like clothes to me. He chokes me like the neck of my shirt. 
Job30:19 He throws me down into the mud. I'm nothing but dust and ashes. 
Job30:20 God, I cry out to you. But you don't answer me. I stand up. But all you do is look at me." 
Job30:21 You do mean things to me. Your mighty hand attacks me. 
Job30:22 You pick me up and blow me away with the wind. You toss me around in the storm. 
Job30:23 I know that you will bring me down to death. That's what you have appointed for everyone. 
Job30:24 No one would crush people when they cry out for help in their trouble. 
Job30:25 Haven't I sobbed over those who are in trouble? Haven't I felt sorry for poor people? 
Job30:26 I hoped good things would happen, but something evil came. I looked for light, but all I saw was darkness." 
Job30:27 My insides are always churning. Nothing but days of suffering are ahead of me. 
Job30:28 My skin has become dark, but the sun didn't do it. I stand up in the community and cry out for help." 
Job30:29 I've become a brother to wild dogs. Owls are my companions. 
Job30:30 My skin grows black and peels. My body burns with fever. 
Job30:31 My harp is tuned to sadness. My flute makes a sound like sobbing. 
Job31:1 I made an agreement with my eyes. I promised not to look at another woman with sexual longing. 
Job31:2 What do human beings receive from God above? What do they get from the Mighty One in heaven? 
Job31:3 Sinful people are destroyed. Trouble comes to those who do what is wrong. 
Job31:4 Doesn't God see how I live? Doesn't he count every step I take? 
Job31:5 I haven't told any lies. My feet haven't hurried to cheat others. 
Job31:6 So let God weigh me in honest scales. Then he'll know I haven't done anything wrong. 
Job31:7 Suppose my steps have turned away from the right path. Suppose my heart has longed for what my eyes have seen. Or suppose my hands have become 'unclean.' 
Job31:8 Then may others eat what I've planted. May my crops be pulled up by the roots. 
Job31:9 Suppose my heart has been tempted by a woman. Or suppose I've prowled around my neighbor's door. 
Job31:10 Then may my wife grind another man's grain. May other men have sex with her. 
Job31:11 Wanting another woman would have been a shameful thing. It would have been a sin that should be judged. 
Job31:12 It's like a fire that burns down to the grave. It would have caused my crops to be pulled up by the roots. 
Job31:13 Suppose I haven't treated my male and female servants fairly when they've brought charges against me. 
Job31:14 Then what will I do when God opposes me? What answer will I give him when he asks me to explain myself? 
Job31:15 Didn't he who made me make my servants also? Didn't the same God form us inside our mothers? 
Job31:16 I haven't said no to what poor people have wanted. I haven't let widows lose their hope. 
Job31:17 I haven't kept my bread to myself. I've shared it with children whose fathers had died. 
Job31:18 From the time I was young, I've helped those widows. I've raised those children as a father would." 
Job31:19 Suppose I've seen people dying because they didn't have any clothes. I've seen needy people who had nothing to wear. 
Job31:20 And they didn't give me their blessing when I warmed them with wool from my sheep. 
Job31:21 Suppose I've raised my hand against children whose fathers have died. And I did it because I knew I had power in the courts. 
Job31:22 Then let my arm fall from my shoulder. Let it be broken off at the joint. 
Job31:23 I was afraid God would destroy me. His glory terrifies me. So I'd never do things like that. 
Job31:24 Suppose I've put my trust in gold. I've said to pure gold, 'You make me feel secure.'" 
Job31:25 And I'm happy because I'm so wealthy. I'm glad because my hands have earned so much. 
Job31:26 Suppose I've worshiped the sun in all of its glory. I've bowed down to the moon in all of its beauty. 
Job31:27 My heart has been secretly tempted. My hand has thrown kisses to the sun and moon. 
Job31:28 Then those things would have been sins that should be judged. And I wouldn't have been faithful to God in heaven. 
Job31:29 I wasn't happy when hard times came to my enemies. I didn't enjoy seeing the trouble they had. 
Job31:30 I didn't allow my mouth to sin by calling down curses on them. 
Job31:31 The workers in my house always said, 'Job always gives plenty of food to everyone.'" 
Job31:32 No stranger ever had to spend the night in the street. My door was always open to travelers. 
Job31:33 I didn't hide my sin as others do. I didn't hide my guilt in my heart. 
Job31:34 I was never afraid of the crowd. I never worried that my relatives might hate me. I didn't have to keep quiet or stay inside. 
Job31:35 I wish someone would listen to me! I'm signing my name to everything I've said. I hope the Mighty One will give me his answer. I hope the one who brings charges against me will write them down. 
Job31:36 I'll wear them on my shoulder. I'll put them on my head like a crown. 
Job31:37 I'll give that person a report of every step I take. I'll approach him like a prince. 
Job31:38 Suppose my land cries out against me. And all of its soil is wet with tears. 
Job31:39 Suppose I've used up its crops without paying for them. Or I've broken the spirit of its renters. 
Job31:40 Then let thorns grow instead of wheat. Let weeds come up instead of barley. The words of Job end here. 
Job32:1 So the three men stopped answering Job, because he thought he was right." 
Job32:2 But Elihu the Buzite burned with anger against Job. That's because Job said he himself was right instead of God. Elihu was the son of Barakel. He was from the family of Ram. 
Job32:3 Elihu's anger also burned against Job's three friends. They hadn't found any way to prove that Job was wrong. But they still said he was guilty. 
Job32:4 Elihu had waited before he spoke to Job. That's because the others were older than he was. 
Job32:5 But he saw that the three men didn't have anything more to say. So he burned with anger. 
Job32:6 Elihu the Buzite, the son of Barakel, said, ""I'm young, and you are old. So I was afraid to tell you what I know." 
Job32:7 I thought, 'Those who are older should speak first. Those who have lived for many years should teach people how to be wise.'" 
Job32:8 But the spirit in people gives them understanding. The breath of the Mighty One gives them wisdom. 
Job32:9 Older people aren't the only ones who are wise. They aren't the only ones who understand what is right. 
Job32:10 So I'm saying you should listen to me. I'll tell you what I know. 
Job32:11 I waited while you men spoke. I listened to your reasoning. While you were searching for words," 
Job32:12 I paid careful attention to you. But not one of you has proved that Job is wrong. None of you has answered his arguments. 
Job32:13 Don't claim, 'We have enough wisdom to answer Job.' Let God, not a mere man, prove that he's wrong." 
Job32:14 Job hasn't directed his words against me. I won't answer him with your arguments. 
Job32:15 Job, those men are afraid. They don't have anything else to say. They've run out of words." 
Job32:16 Do I have to keep on waiting, now that they are silent? They are just standing there with nothing to say." 
Job32:17 I too have something to say. I too will tell what I know. 
Job32:18 I'm full of words. My spirit inside me forces me to speak. 
Job32:19 Inside I'm like wine that is bottled up. I'm like new wineskins ready to burst. 
Job32:20 I must speak so I can feel better. I must open my mouth and reply. 
Job32:21 I'll treat everyone the same. I won't praise anyone without meaning it. 
Job32:22 If I weren't honest when I praised people, my Maker would soon take me from this life." 
Job33:1 Job, listen now to my words. Pay attention to everything I say." 
Job33:2 I'm about to open my mouth. My words are on the tip of my tongue. 
Job33:3 What I say comes from an honest heart. My lips speak only what I know is true. 
Job33:4 The Spirit of God has made me. The breath of the Mighty One gives me life. 
Job33:5 So answer me if you can. Prepare yourself to face me. 
Job33:6 In God's sight I'm just like you. I too have been made out of clay. 
Job33:7 You don't have to be afraid of me. My hand won't be too heavy on you. 
Job33:8 But I heard what you said. And here are the exact words I heard. 
Job33:9 You said, 'I'm pure. I haven't sinned in the ways you have charged. I'm clean. I'm not guilty of doing anything wrong." 
Job33:10 But God has found fault with me. He thinks I'm his enemy. 
Job33:11 He puts my feet in chains. He watches every step I take.' 
Job33:12 But I'm telling you that you aren't right when you talk like that. After all, God is greater than a mere man." 
Job33:13 Why do you claim that God never answers any of our questions? 
Job33:14 He speaks in one way and then another. We might not even realize it. 
Job33:15 He might speak in a dream or in a vision at night. That's when people are sound asleep in their beds. 
Job33:16 He might speak in their ears. His warnings might terrify them. 
Job33:17 He warns men in order to turn them away from sinning. He wants to keep them from being proud. 
Job33:18 He wants to stop them from going down into the grave. He doesn't want them to be killed with swords. 
Job33:19 Someone might be punished by suffering in bed. The pain in his bones might never go away. 
Job33:20 He might feel so bad he can't eat anything. He might even hate the finest food. 
Job33:21 His body might waste away to nothing. His bones might have been hidden. But now they stick out. 
Job33:22 He might approach the very edge of the grave. The messengers of death might come for him. 
Job33:23 But suppose there is an angel who will speak up for him. The angel is very special. He's one out of a thousand. He will tell that person what is right for him. 
Job33:24 He'll be gracious to him. He'll say to God, 'Spare him from going down into the grave. I know a way that can set him free.'" 
Job33:25 Then his body is made like new again. He becomes as strong and healthy as when he was young. 
Job33:26 He prays to God and finds favor with him. He sees God's face and shouts with joy. God makes him right with himself again. 
Job33:27 Then the person comes to others and says, 'I sinned. I made what was wrong appear to be right. But I wasn't punished as I should have been." 
Job33:28 God set me free. He kept me from going down into the grave. So I'll live to enjoy the light that leads to life.' 
Job33:29 God does all of those things to people. In fact, he does them again and again." 
Job33:30 He wants to stop people from going down into the grave. Then the light that leads to life will shine on them. 
Job33:31 Pay attention, Job! Listen to me! Be quiet so I can speak." 
Job33:32 If you have anything to say, answer me. Speak up. I want to help you be cleared of all charges." 
Job33:33 But if you don't have anything to say, listen to me. Be quiet so I can teach you how to be wise.""" 
Job34:1 Elihu continued," 
Job34:2 Hear what I'm saying, you wise men. Listen to me, you who have learned so much." 
Job34:3 Our tongues tell us what tastes good and what doesn't. And our ears tell us what's true and what isn't. 
Job34:4 So let's choose for ourselves what is right. Let's learn together what is good. 
Job34:5 Job says, 'I'm not guilty of doing anything wrong. But God doesn't treat me fairly." 
Job34:6 Even though I'm right, he thinks I'm a liar. Even though I'm not guilty, his arrows give me wounds that can't be healed.'" 
Job34:7 Is there any other man like Job? He laughs at God and makes fun of him. 
Job34:8 He's a companion of those who do evil. He spends his time with sinful people. 
Job34:9 He asks, 'What good is it to try to please God?'" 
Job34:10 So listen to me, you men who have understanding. God would never do what is evil. The Mighty One would never do what is wrong." 
Job34:11 He pays a man back for what he's done. He gives him exactly what he should get. 
Job34:12 It isn't possible for God to do wrong. The Mighty One would never treat people unfairly. 
Job34:13 Who appointed him to rule over the earth? Who put him in charge of the whole world? 
Job34:14 If he really wanted to, he could hold back his spirit and breath." 
Job34:15 Then everyone would die together. They would return to the dust. 
Job34:16 Job, if you have understanding, listen to me. Pay attention to what I'm saying." 
Job34:17 Can someone who hates to be fair govern? Will you bring charges against the holy and mighty One? 
Job34:18 He says to kings, 'You are worthless.' He says to nobles, 'You are evil.'" 
Job34:19 He doesn't favor princes. He treats rich people and poor people the same. His hands created all of them. 
Job34:20 They die suddenly in the middle of the night. God strikes them down, and they pass away. Those who are mighty are removed, but not by human hands." 
Job34:21 His eyes see how people live. He watches every step they take. 
Job34:22 There isn't a dark place or deep shadow where those who do what is evil can hide. 
Job34:23 God doesn't need to bring charges against men. He knows they are guilty. So he doesn't need to have them appear in his court to be judged. 
Job34:24 He destroys the mighty without asking them questions in court. Then he sets others up in their places. 
Job34:25 He knows what they do. So he crushes them during the night. 
Job34:26 He punishes them for the sins they commit. He does it where everyone can see them. 
Job34:27 That's because they turned away from following him. They didn't have respect for anything he does. 
Job34:28 They caused poor people to cry out to him. He heard the cries of those who were in need. 
Job34:29 But if he remains silent, who can judge him? If he turns his face away, who can see him? He rules over people and nations alike." 
Job34:30 He keeps those who are ungodly from ruling. He keeps them from laying traps for others. 
Job34:31 Someone might say to God, 'I'm guilty of sinning, but I won't do it anymore." 
Job34:32 Show me my sins that I'm not aware of. If I've done what is wrong, I won't do it again.'" 
Job34:33 But you refuse to turn away from your sins. So God won't treat you the way you want to be treated. You must decide, Job. I can't do it for you. So tell me what you know." 
Job34:34 You men who have understanding have spoken. You wise men who hear me have said to me," 
Job34:35 'Job doesn't know what he's talking about. The things he has said don't make any sense.' 
Job34:36 I wish Job would be put to the hardest test! He answered like someone who is evil. 
Job34:37 To his sin he adds even more sin. He claps his hands and makes fun of us. He multiplies his words against God. 
Job35:1 Elihu continued," 
Job35:2 Job, do you think it's fair for you to say, 'God will clear me of all charges'?" 
Job35:3 You ask him, 'What good is it for me not to sin? What do I get by not sinning?'" 
Job35:4 I'd like to reply to you and to your friends who are with you. 
Job35:5 Look up at the heavens. Observe the clouds that are high above you. 
Job35:6 If you sin, what does that mean to God? If you sin many times, what does that do to him?" 
Job35:7 If you do what is right, how does that help him? What does he get from you?" 
Job35:8 The evil things you do only hurt someone like yourself. The right things you do only help other human beings. 
Job35:9 People cry out when they are beaten down. They beg to be set free from the power of those who are over them. 
Job35:10 But no one says, 'Where is the God who made me? He gives us songs even during the night." 
Job35:11 He teaches more to us than to wild animals. He makes us wiser than the birds of the air.' 
Job35:12 He doesn't answer sinful people when they cry out to him. That's because they are so proud. 
Job35:13 In fact, God doesn't listen to their empty cries. The Mighty One doesn't pay any attention to them." 
Job35:14 So he certainly won't listen to you. When you say you don't see him, he won't hear you. He won't listen when you state your case to him. He won't pay attention even if you wait for him." 
Job35:15 When you say his anger never punishes sin, he won't hear you. He won't listen when you say he doesn't pay any attention to evil." 
Job35:16 So you say things that don't mean anything. You use a lot of words, but you don't know what you are talking about.""" 
Job36:1 Elihu continued," 
Job36:2 Put up with me a little longer. I'll show you I can speak up for God even more. 
Job36:3 I get my knowledge from far away. I'll announce that the One who made me is fair. 
Job36:4 You can be sure that my words are true. One who has perfect knowledge is talking to you. 
Job36:5 God is mighty, but he doesn't hate people. He's mighty, and he knows exactly what he's going to do." 
Job36:6 He doesn't keep alive those who are evil. Instead, he gives suffering people their rights." 
Job36:7 He watches over those who do what is right. He puts them on thrones as if they were kings. He honors them forever. 
Job36:8 But some people are held by chains. They are tied up with painful ropes. 
Job36:9 God tells them what they've done. He tells them they've become proud and sinned against him. 
Job36:10 He makes them listen when he corrects them. He commands them to turn away from the evil things they've done. 
Job36:11 If they obey him and serve him, they'll enjoy a long and happy life. Things will go well with them." 
Job36:12 But if they don't listen to him, they'll be killed with swords. They'll die because they didn't want to know anything about him." 
Job36:13 Those whose hearts are ungodly are always angry. Even when God puts them in chains, they don't cry out for help." 
Job36:14 They die while they are still young. They die among the male prostitutes at the temples. 
Job36:15 But God saves suffering people while they are suffering. He speaks to them while they are hurting. 
Job36:16 Job, he wants to take you out of the jaws of trouble. He wants to bring you to a wide and safe place. He'd like to seat you at a table that is loaded with the best food." 
Job36:17 But now you are loaded down with the punishment sinners will receive. You have been judged fairly. 
Job36:18 Be careful that no one tempts you with riches. Don't take money from people who want special favors, no matter how much it is." 
Job36:19 Can your wealth keep you out of trouble? Can all of your mighty efforts keep you going? 
Job36:20 Don't long for the night to come so you can drag people away from their homes. 
Job36:21 Be careful not to do what is evil. You seem to like evil better than suffering! 
Job36:22 God is honored because he is so powerful. He has no equal as a teacher. 
Job36:23 Who has told him what he can do? Who has said to him, 'You have done what is wrong'?" 
Job36:24 Remember to thank him for what he's done. People have praised him with their songs. 
Job36:25 Every human being has seen his work. People can see it from far away. 
Job36:26 How great God is! We'll never completely understand him. We'll never find out how long he has lived. 
Job36:27 He makes mist rise from the water. Then it falls as rain into the streams. 
Job36:28 The clouds pour down their moisture. Rain showers fall on people everywhere. 
Job36:29 Who can understand how God spreads out the clouds? Who can explain how he thunders from his home in heaven? 
Job36:30 See how he scatters his lightning around him! He lights up the deepest parts of the ocean. 
Job36:31 The rain he sends makes things grow for the nations. He provides them with plenty of food. 
Job36:32 He holds lightning bolts in his hands. He commands them to strike their marks. 
Job36:33 His thunder announces that a storm is coming. Even the cattle let us know it's approaching. 
Job37:1 When I hear the thunder, my heart pounds. It beats faster inside me." 
Job37:2 Listen! Listen to the roar of his voice! Listen to the thunder that comes from him! 
Job37:3 He sends his lightning across the sky. It reaches from one end of the earth to the other. 
Job37:4 Next comes the sound of his roaring thunder. He thunders with his majestic voice. When his voice fills the air, he doesn't hold anything back." 
Job37:5 God's voice thunders in wonderful ways. We'll never understand the great things he does. 
Job37:6 He says to the snow, 'Fall on the earth.' He tells the rain, 'Pour down your mighty waters.'" 
Job37:7 He stops everyone from working. He wants them to see his work. 
Job37:8 The animals go inside. They remain in their dens. 
Job37:9 The storm comes out of its storeroom in the heavens. The cold comes from the driving winds. 
Job37:10 The breath of God produces ice. The shallow water freezes over. 
Job37:11 He loads the clouds with moisture. He scatters his lightning through them. 
Job37:12 He directs the clouds to circle above the surface of the whole earth. They do everything he commands them to do. 
Job37:13 He tells the clouds to punish people. Or he brings them to water his earth and show his love. 
Job37:14 Job, listen to me. Stop and think about the wonderful things God does." 
Job37:15 Do you know how he controls the clouds? Do you understand how he makes his lightning flash? 
Job37:16 Do you know how the clouds stay up in the sky? Do you understand the wonders of the One who has perfect knowledge? 
Job37:17 Even your clothes are too hot for you when the land lies quiet under the south wind. 
Job37:18 Can you help God spread out the skies? They are as hard as a mirror that's made out of bronze. 
Job37:19 Job, tell us what we should say to God. We can't prepare our case because our minds are dark." 
Job37:20 Should he be told that I want to speak? Would any man ask to be destroyed by him? 
Job37:21 No one can look at the sun. It's too bright after the wind has swept the skies clean. 
Job37:22 Out of the north, God comes in his shining glory. He comes in all of his wonderful majesty." 
Job37:23 We can't reach up to the Mighty One. He is lifted high because of his power. Everything he does is fair and right. So he doesn't crush people. 
Job37:24 That's why they have respect for him. He cares about all those who are wise. 
Job38:1 The Lord spoke to Job out of a storm. He said," 
Job38:2 Who do you think you are to disagree with my plans? You do not know what you are talking about. 
Job38:3 Get ready to stand up for yourself. I will ask you some questions. Then I want you to answer me. 
Job38:4 Where were you when I laid the earth's foundation? Tell me, if you know." 
Job38:5 Who measured it? I am sure you know! Who stretched a measuring line across it? 
Job38:6 What was it built on? Who laid its most important stone? 
Job38:7 When it happened, the morning stars sang together. All of the angels shouted with joy." 
Job38:8 Who created the ocean? Who caused it to be born? 
Job38:9 I put clouds over it as if they were its clothes. I wrapped it in thick darkness. 
Job38:10 I set limits for it. I put its doors and metal bars in place. 
Job38:11 I said, 'You can come this far. But you can't come any farther. Here is where your proud waves have to stop.'" 
Job38:12 Job, have you ever commanded the morning to come? Have you ever shown the sun where to rise?" 
Job38:13 The daylight takes the earth by its edges as if it were a blanket. Then it shakes sinful people out of it. 
Job38:14 The earth takes shape like clay under a seal. Its features stand out like the different parts of your clothes. 
Job38:15 Sinners would rather have darkness than light. When the light comes, their power is broken." 
Job38:16 Have you traveled to the springs at the bottom of the ocean? Have you walked in its deepest parts? 
Job38:17 Have the gates of death been shown to you? Have you seen the gates of darkness? 
Job38:18 Do you understand how big the earth is? Tell me, if you know all of those things." 
Job38:19 Where does light come from? And where does darkness live? 
Job38:20 Can you take them to their places? Do you know the paths to their houses? 
Job38:21 I am sure you know! After all, you were already born! You have lived so many years!" 
Job38:22 Have you entered the places where the snow is kept? Have you seen the storerooms for the hail? 
Job38:23 I store up snow and hail for times of trouble. I keep them for days of war and battle. 
Job38:24 Where does lightning come from? Where do the east winds that blow across the earth live? 
Job38:25 Who tells the rain where it should fall? Who makes paths for the thunderstorms? 
Job38:26 They bring water to places where no one lives. They water deserts that do not have anyone in them. 
Job38:27 They satisfy the needs of dry and empty lands. They make grass start growing there. 
Job38:28 Does the rain have a father? Who is the father of the drops of dew? 
Job38:29 Does the ice have a mother? Who is the mother of the frost from the heavens? 
Job38:30 The waters become as hard as stone. The surface of the ocean freezes over. 
Job38:31 Can you tie up the beautiful Pleiades? Can you untie the ropes that hold Orion together? 
Job38:32 Can you bring out all of the stars in their seasons? Can you lead out the Big Dipper and the Little Dipper? 
Job38:33 Do you know the laws that govern the heavens? Can you rule over the earth the way I do? 
Job38:34 Can you give orders to the clouds? Can you make them pour rain down on you? 
Job38:35 Do you send the lightning bolts on their way? Do they report to you, 'Here we are'?" 
Job38:36 Who put wisdom in people's hearts? Who gave understanding to their minds? 
Job38:37 Who is wise enough to count the clouds? Who can tip over the water jars of the heavens? 
Job38:38 I tip them over when the ground becomes hard. I do it when the dirt sticks together. 
Job38:39 Do you hunt for food for mother lions? Do you satisfy the hunger of their cubs? 
Job38:40 Some of them lie low in their dens. Others lie waiting in the bushes. 
Job38:41 Who provides food for ravens when their babies cry out to me? They wander around because they do not have anything to eat. 
Job39:1 Job, do you know when mountain goats have their babies? Do you watch when female deer give birth?" 
Job39:2 Do you count the months until the animals have their babies? Do you know the time when they give birth? 
Job39:3 They bend their back legs and have their babies. Then their labor pains stop. 
Job39:4 Their little ones grow strong and healthy in the wild. They leave and do not come home again. 
Job39:5 Who let the wild donkeys go free? Who untied their ropes? 
Job39:6 I gave them the dry and empty land as their home. I gave them salt flats to live in. 
Job39:7 They laugh at all of the noise in town. They do not hear the shouts of the donkey drivers. 
Job39:8 They wander over the hills to look for grass. They search for anything green to eat. 
Job39:9 Job, will wild oxen agree to serve you? Will they stay by your feed box at night?" 
Job39:10 Can you keep them in straight rows with harnesses? Will they plow the valleys behind you? 
Job39:11 Will you depend on them for their great strength? Will you let them do your heavy work? 
Job39:12 Can you trust them to bring in your grain? Will they take it to your threshing floor? 
Job39:13 The wings of ostriches flap with joy. But they can't compare with the wings and feathers of storks. 
Job39:14 Ostriches lay their eggs on the ground. They let them get warm in the sand. 
Job39:15 They do not know that something might step on them. A wild animal might walk all over them. 
Job39:16 Ostriches are mean to their little ones. They treat them as if they did not belong to them. They do not care that their work was useless. 
Job39:17 I did not provide ostriches with wisdom. I did not give them good sense. 
Job39:18 But when they spread their feathers to run, they laugh at a horse and its rider." 
Job39:19 Job, do you give horses their strength? Do you put flowing manes on their necks?" 
Job39:20 Do you make them jump like locusts? They terrify others with their proud snorting. 
Job39:21 They paw the ground wildly. They are filled with joy. They charge at their enemies. 
Job39:22 They laugh at fear. They are not afraid of anything. They do not run away from swords. 
Job39:23 Many arrows rattle at their sides. Flashing spears and javelins are also there. 
Job39:24 They are so stirred up that they eat up the ground. They can't stand still when trumpets are blown. 
Job39:25 When they hear the trumpets they snort, 'Aha!' They catch the smells of battle far away. They hear the shouts of commanders and the battle cries." 
Job39:26 Job, are you wise enough to teach hawks where to fly? They spread their wings and fly toward the south." 
Job39:27 Do you command eagles to fly so high? They build their nests as high as they can. 
Job39:28 They live on cliffs and stay there at night. High up on the rocks they think they are safe. 
Job39:29 From there they look for their food. They can see it from far away. 
Job39:30 Their little ones like to eat blood. Eagles gather where they see dead bodies. 
Job40:1 The Lord continued," 
Job40:2 I am the Mighty One. Will the man who argues with me correct me? Let him who brings charges against me answer me! 
Job40:3 Job replied to the Lord," 
Job40:4 I'm not worthy. How can I reply to you? I'm putting my hand over my mouth. I'll stop talking. 
Job40:5 I spoke once. But I really don't have any answer. I spoke twice. But I won't say anything else. 
Job40:6 Then the Lord spoke to Job out of the storm. He said," 
Job40:7 Get ready to stand up for yourself. I will ask you some more questions. Then I want you to answer me. 
Job40:8 Would you dare to claim that I am not being fair? Would you judge me in order to make yourself seem right? 
Job40:9 Is your arm as powerful as mine is? Can your voice thunder as mine does? 
Job40:10 Then put on glory and beauty as if they were your clothes. Also put honor and majesty on. 
Job40:11 Let loose your great anger. Look at those who are proud and bring them low. 
Job40:12 Look at proud people and bring them down. Crush those who are evil right where they are. 
Job40:13 Bury their bodies in the dust together. Cover their faces in the grave. 
Job40:14 Then I myself will admit to you that your own right hand can save you. 
Job40:15 Look at the behemoth. It is a huge animal. I made both of you. It eats grass like an ox. 
Job40:16 Look at the strength it has in its hips! What power it has in the muscles of its stomach! 
Job40:17 Its tail sways back and forth like a cedar tree. The tendons of its thighs are close together. 
Job40:18 Its bones are like tubes made out of bronze. Its legs are like rods made out of iron. 
Job40:19 It ranks first among my works. I made it. I can approach it with my sword. 
Job40:20 The hills produce food for it. All of the other wild animals play near it. 
Job40:21 It lies under lotus plants. It hides in tall grass in the swamps. 
Job40:22 The lotus plants hide it in their shade. Poplar trees near streams surround it. 
Job40:23 It is not afraid when the river roars. It is secure even when the Jordan River rushes against its mouth. 
Job40:24 Can anyone capture it by its eyes? Can anyone trap it and poke a hole through its nose? 
Job41:1 Job, can you pull the leviathan out of the sea with a fish hook? Can you tie down its tongue with a rope?" 
Job41:2 Can you put a rope through its nose? Can you stick a hook through its jaw? 
Job41:3 Will it keep begging you for mercy? Will it speak gently to you? 
Job41:4 Will it make an agreement with you? Can you make it your slave for life? 
Job41:5 Can you make a pet out of it like a bird? Can you put it on a leash for your young women? 
Job41:6 Will traders offer you something for it? Will they divide it up among the merchants? 
Job41:7 Can you fill its body with harpoons? Can you throw fishing spears into its head? 
Job41:8 If you touch it, it will fight you. Then you will remember never to touch it again!" 
Job41:9 No one can possibly control the leviathan. Just looking at it will terrify you. 
Job41:10 No one dares to wake it up. So who can possibly stand up to me? 
Job41:11 Who has a claim against me that I must pay? Everything on earth belongs to me. 
Job41:12 Now I will speak about the leviathan's legs. I will talk about its strength and its graceful body. 
Job41:13 Who can strip off its outer coat? Who would try to put a bridle on it? 
Job41:14 Who dares to open its jaws? Its mouth is filled with terrifying teeth. 
Job41:15 Its back has rows of shields that are close together. 
Job41:16 Each one is so close to the next one that not even air can pass between them. 
Job41:17 They are joined tightly to one another. They stick together and can't be forced apart. 
Job41:18 The leviathan's snorting throws out flashes of light. Its eyes shine like the first light of day. 
Job41:19 Fire seems to spray out of its mouth. Sparks of fire shoot out. 
Job41:20 Smoke pours out of its nose. It is like smoke from a boiling pot over burning grass. 
Job41:21 Its breath sets coals on fire. Flames fly out of its mouth. 
Job41:22 Its neck is very strong. People run to get out of its way. 
Job41:23 Its rolls of fat are close together. They are firm and can't be moved. 
Job41:24 Its chest is as hard as rock. It is as hard as a lower millstone. 
Job41:25 When the leviathan rises up, even mighty people are terrified. They run away when it moves around wildly." 
Job41:26 A sword that strikes it has no effect. Neither does a spear or dart or javelin. 
Job41:27 It treats iron as if it were straw. It crushes bronze as if it were rotten wood. 
Job41:28 Arrows do not make it run away. Stones that are thrown from slings are like straw hitting it. 
Job41:29 A club seems like a piece of straw to it. It laughs when it hears a javelin rattling. 
Job41:30 Its undersides are like broken pieces of pottery. It leaves a trail in the mud like a threshing sled. 
Job41:31 It makes the ocean churn like a boiling pot. It stirs up the sea like perfume someone is making. 
Job41:32 It leaves a shiny trail behind it. You would think the ocean had white hair. 
Job41:33 Nothing on earth is equal to the leviathan. That creature is not afraid of anything. 
Job41:34 It looks down on proud people. It rules over all those who are proud. 
Job42:1 Job replied to the Lord," 
Job42:2 I know that you can do anything. No one can keep you from doing what you plan to do. 
Job42:3 You asked me, 'Who do you think you are to disagree with my plans? You do not know what you are talking about.' I spoke about things I didn't completely understand. I talked about things that were too wonderful for me to know." 
Job42:4 You said, 'Listen now, and I will speak. I will ask you some questions. Then I want you to answer me.'" 
Job42:5 My ears had heard about you. But now my own eyes have seen you. 
Job42:6 So I hate myself. I'm really sorry for what I said about you. That's why I'm sitting in dust and ashes. 
Job42:7 After the Lord finished speaking to Job, he spoke to Eliphaz the Temanite. He said, ""I am angry with you and your two friends. You have not said what is true about me, as my servant Job has." 
Job42:8 So now get seven bulls and seven rams. Go to my servant Job. Then sacrifice a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you. And I will accept his prayer. I will not punish you for saying the foolish things you said. You have not said what is true about me, as my servant Job has.""" 
Job42:9 So Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite did what the Lord told them to do. And the Lord accepted Job's prayer." 
Job42:10 After Job had prayed for his friends, the Lord made him successful again. He gave him twice as much as he had before." 
Job42:11 All of his brothers and sisters and everyone who had known him before came to see him. They ate with him in his house. They showed their concern for him. They comforted him because of all of the troubles the Lord had brought on him. Each one gave him a piece of silver and a gold ring. 
Job42:12 The Lord blessed the last part of Job's life even more than the first part. He gave Job 14,000 sheep and 6,000 camels. He gave him 1,000 pairs of oxen and 1,000 donkeys." 
Job42:13 Job also had seven sons and three daughters. 
Job42:14 He named the first daughter Jemimah. He named the second Keziah. And he named the third Keren-Happuch. 
Job42:15 Job's daughters were more beautiful than any other women in the whole land. Their father gave them a share of property along with their brothers. 
Job42:16 After all of that happened, Job lived for 140 years. He saw his children, his grandchildren and his great-grandchildren." 
Job42:17 And so he died. He had lived for a very long time. 
Psalms1:1 BOOK I Blessed is the one who obeys the law of the Lord. He doesn't follow the advice of evil people. He doesn't make a habit of doing what sinners do. He doesn't join those who make fun of the Lord and his law. 
Psalms1:2 Instead, he takes delight in the law of the Lord. He thinks about his law day and night." 
Psalms1:3 He is like a tree that is planted near a stream of water. It always bears its fruit at the right time. Its leaves don't dry up. Everything godly people do turns out well. 
Psalms1:4 Sinful people are not like that at all. They are like straw that the wind blows away. 
Psalms1:5 When the Lord judges them, their life will come to an end. Sinners won't have any place among those who are godly." 
Psalms1:6 The Lord watches over the lives of those who are godly. But the lives of sinful people will lead to their death. 
Psalms2:1 Why do the nations plan evil together? Why do they make useless plans? 
Psalms2:2 The kings of the earth take their stand against the Lord. The rulers of the earth gather together against his anointed king. 
Psalms2:3 Let us break free from their chains,"" they say. ""Let us throw off their ropes.""" 
Psalms2:4 The One who sits on his throne in heaven laughs. The Lord makes fun of those rulers and their plans. 
Psalms2:5 When he is angry, he warns them. When his anger blazes out, he terrifies them." 
Psalms2:6 He says to them, ""I have placed my king on my holy mountain of Zion.""" 
Psalms2:7 I will announce what the Lord has promised. He said to me, ""You are my son. Today I have become your father." 
Psalms2:8 Ask me, and I will give the nations to you. All nations on earth will belong to you." 
Psalms2:9 You will rule them with an iron rod. You will break them to pieces like clay pots. 
Psalms2:10 Kings, be wise! Rulers of the earth, be warned!" 
Psalms2:11 Serve the Lord and have respect for him. Serve him with joy and trembling. 
Psalms2:12 Obey the son completely, or he will be angry. Your way of life will lead to your death. His anger can blaze out at any moment. Blessed are all those who go to him for safety." 
Psalms3:1 A psalm of David when he ran away from his son Absalom. Lord, I have so many enemies! So many people are rising up against me!" 
Psalms3:2 Many are saying about me, ""God will not save him."" Selah" 
Psalms3:3 Lord, you are like a shield that keeps me safe. You honor me. You help me win the battle." 
Psalms3:4 I call out to the Lord. He answers me from his holy hill. Selah 
Psalms3:5 I lie down and sleep. I wake up again, because the Lord takes care of me." 
Psalms3:6 I won't be afraid of the tens of thousands who are lined up against me on every side. 
Psalms3:7 Lord, rise up! My God, save me! Strike all my enemies in the face. Break the teeth of sinful people." 
Psalms3:8 Lord, you are the one who saves. May your blessing be on your people. Selah" 
Psalms4:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David to be played on stringed instruments. My faithful God, answer me when I call out to you. Give me rest from my trouble. Show me your favor. Hear my prayer." 
Psalms4:2 How long will you people turn my glory into shame? How long will you love what will certainly fail you? How long will you pray to statues of gods? Selah 
Psalms4:3 Remember that the Lord has set his faithful people apart for himself. The Lord will hear me when I call out to him. 
Psalms4:4 When you are angry, do not sin. When you are in bed, look deep down inside you and be silent. Selah" 
Psalms4:5 Offer sacrifices to the Lord in the right way. Trust in him. 
Psalms4:6 Many are asking, ""Who can show us anything good?"" Lord, let us see your face smiling on us with favor." 
Psalms4:7 You have filled my heart with great joy. It is greater than the joy of people who have lots of grain and fresh wine. 
Psalms4:8 I will lie down and sleep in peace. Lord, you alone keep me safe." 
Psalms5:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David to be played on flutes. Lord, listen to my words. Pay attention when I sigh." 
Psalms5:2 My King and my God, listen to me when I cry for help. I pray to you." 
Psalms5:3 Lord, in the morning you hear my voice. In the morning I pray to you. I wait for you in hope." 
Psalms5:4 God, you aren't happy with anything that is evil. Those who do what is wrong can't live where you are." 
Psalms5:5 Those who are proud can't stand in front of you. You hate everyone who does what is evil. 
Psalms5:6 You destroy those who tell lies. Lord, you hate murderers and those who cheat others." 
Psalms5:7 Because of your great love I will come into your house. With deep respect I will bow down toward your holy temple. 
Psalms5:8 Lord, I have many enemies. Lead me in your right path. Make your way smooth and straight for me." 
Psalms5:9 Not a word from their mouths can be trusted. Their hearts are filled with plans to destroy others. Their throats are like open graves. With their tongues they tell lies. 
Psalms5:10 God, show that they are guilty. Let their evil plans bring them down. Send them away because of their many sins. They have refused to obey you." 
Psalms5:11 But let all those who go to you for safety be glad. Let them always sing with joy. Spread your cover over them and keep them safe. Then those who love you will be glad because of you. 
Psalms5:12 Lord, you bless those who do what is right. Like a shield, your loving care keeps them safe." 
Psalms6:1 For the director of music. For sheminith. A psalm of David to be played on stringed instruments. Lord, don't correct me when you are angry. Don't punish me when you are burning with anger." 
Psalms6:2 Lord, have mercy on me. I'm so weak. Lord, heal me. My body is full of pain." 
Psalms6:3 My soul is very troubled. Lord, how long will it be until you save me?" 
Psalms6:4 Lord, turn to me and help me. Save me. Your love never fails." 
Psalms6:5 People can't remember you when they are dead. How can they praise you when they are in the grave? 
Psalms6:6 My groaning has worn me out. All night long my tears flood my bed. My bed is wet because of my crying. 
Psalms6:7 I'm so sad I can't see very well. My eyesight gets worse because of all of my enemies. 
Psalms6:8 Get away from me, all of you who do evil. The Lord has heard my sobbing." 
Psalms6:9 The Lord has heard my cry for his favor. The Lord accepts my prayer. 
Psalms6:10 All of my enemies will be troubled and put to shame. They will turn back in dishonor. It will happen suddenly. 
Psalms7:1 A shiggaion of David. He sang it to the Lord about Cush, who was from the tribe of Benjamin. Lord my God, I go to you for safety. Help me. Save me from all those who are chasing me." 
Psalms7:2 If you don't, they will tear me apart as if they were lions. They will rip me to pieces so that no one can save me." 
Psalms7:3 Lord my God, suppose I have done something wrong. Suppose I am guilty." 
Psalms7:4 I have done evil to my friend. Or I have robbed my enemy without any reason. 
Psalms7:5 If I have done any of those things, let my enemy chase me and catch me. Let him walk all over me. Let him bury me in the dust. Selah" 
Psalms7:6 Lord, rise up in your anger. Rise up against the great anger of my enemies. My God, wake up. Command that the right thing be done." 
Psalms7:7 Let all the people of the earth gather around you. Rule over them from your throne in heaven. 
Psalms7:8 Lord, judge all people. Lord, judge me. But remember that I have done what is right. Most High God, remember that I am honest." 
Psalms7:9 God, you always do what is right. You look deep down inside the hearts and minds of people. Bring to an end the terrible things sinful people do. Make godly people safe." 
Psalms7:10 The Most High God is like a shield that keeps me safe. He saves those whose hearts are honest. 
Psalms7:11 God judges fairly. He shows his anger every day. 
Psalms7:12 If evil people don't change their ways, God will sharpen his sword. He will get his bow ready to use." 
Psalms7:13 He has prepared his deadly weapons. He has made his flaming arrows ready. 
Psalms7:14 Anyone who is full of evil plans trouble and ends up telling lies. 
Psalms7:15 Anyone who digs a hole and shovels it out falls into the pit he has made. 
Psalms7:16 The trouble he causes comes back on him. The terrible things he does come down on his own head. 
Psalms7:17 I will give thanks to the Lord because he does what is right. I will sing praise to the Lord Most High. 
Psalms8:1 For the director of music. For gittith. A psalm of David. Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in the whole earth! You have made your glory higher than the heavens." 
Psalms8:2 You have made sure that children and infants praise you. You have done it because of your enemies. You have done it to put a stop to their talk. 
Psalms8:3 I think about the heavens. I think about what your fingers have created. I think about the moon and stars that you have set in place. 
Psalms8:4 What is a human being that you think about him? What is a son of man that you take care of him? 
Psalms8:5 You made him a little lower than the heavenly beings. You placed on him a crown of glory and honor. 
Psalms8:6 You made human beings the rulers over all that your hands have created. You put everything under their control. 
Psalms8:7 They rule over all flocks and herds and over the wild animals. 
Psalms8:8 They rule over the birds of the air and over the fish in the ocean. They rule over everything that swims in the oceans. 
Psalms8:9 Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in the whole earth!" 
Psalms9:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David to the tune of The Death of the Son. Lord, I will praise you with all my heart. I will tell about all of the miracles you have done." 
Psalms9:2 I will be glad and full of joy because of you. Most High God, I will sing praise to you." 
Psalms9:3 My enemies turn back. They fall down and die right in front of you. 
Psalms9:4 You have proved that I haven't done anything wrong. You have sat on your throne and judged fairly. 
Psalms9:5 You have punished the nations. You have destroyed evil people. You have erased their names from your book for ever and ever. 
Psalms9:6 The enemy has been destroyed forever. You have leveled their cities to the ground. Even the memory of them is gone. 
Psalms9:7 The Lord rules forever. He has set up his throne so that he can judge people. 
Psalms9:8 He will judge the world in keeping with what is right. He will rule over all of its people fairly. 
Psalms9:9 The Lord is a place of safety for those who have been beaten down. He keeps them safe in times of trouble. 
Psalms9:10 Lord, those who know you will trust in you. You have never deserted those who look to you." 
Psalms9:11 Sing praises to the Lord. He rules from his throne in Zion. Tell among the nations what he has done. 
Psalms9:12 The One who pays back murderers remembers. He doesn't forget the cries of those who are hurting. 
Psalms9:13 Lord, see how badly my enemies treat me! Show me your favor. Don't let me go down to the gates of death." 
Psalms9:14 Then I can give praise to you at the gates of the city of Zion. There I will be full of joy because you have saved me. 
Psalms9:15 The nations have fallen into the pit they have dug. Their feet are caught in the net they have hidden. 
Psalms9:16 The Lord is known to be fair. Evil people are trapped by what they have done. Higgaion. Selah 
Psalms9:17 Sinful people go down to the grave. So do all the nations that forget God. 
Psalms9:18 But those who are in need will always be remembered. The hope of those who are hurting will never die. 
Psalms9:19 Lord, rise up. Don't let people win the battle. Let the nations come to you and be judged." 
Psalms9:20 Lord, strike them with terror. Let the nations know they are only human. Selah" 
Psalms10:1 Lord, why are you so far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?" 
Psalms10:2 An evil person is proud and hunts down those who are weak. He catches weak people by making clever plans. 
Psalms10:3 He brags about what his heart longs for. He speaks well of those who always want more. He attacks the Lord with his words. 
Psalms10:4 Because he is proud, that evil person doesn't turn to the Lord. There is no room for God in any of his thoughts." 
Psalms10:5 Everything always goes well for him. So he is proud. He doesn't want to have anything to do with God's laws. He makes fun of all of his enemies. 
Psalms10:6 He says to himself, ""I will always be secure. I will always be happy. I'll never have any trouble.""" 
Psalms10:7 His mouth is full of curses and lies and warnings. With his tongue he speaks evil and makes trouble. 
Psalms10:8 Sinful people hide and wait near the villages. From their hiding places they murder those who aren't guilty of doing anything wrong. They watch in secret for those they want to attack. 
Psalms10:9 They hide and wait like a lion in the bushes. From their hiding places they wait to catch those who are helpless. They catch them and drag them off in their nets. 
Psalms10:10 Those they have attacked are beaten up. They fall to the ground. They fall because their attackers are too strong for them. 
Psalms10:11 Sinful people say to themselves, ""God doesn't pay any attention. He covers his face. He never sees us.""" 
Psalms10:12 Lord, rise up! God, show your power! Don't forget those who are helpless." 
Psalms10:13 Why do sinful people attack you with their words? Why do they say to themselves, ""He won't hold us accountable""?" 
Psalms10:14 God, you see trouble and sadness. You take note of it. You do something about it. So those who are attacked place themselves in your care. You help children whose fathers have died." 
Psalms10:15 Take away the power of bad and sinful people. Hold them accountable for the evil things they do. Uncover all the evil they have done. 
Psalms10:16 The Lord is King for ever and ever. The nations will disappear from his land. 
Psalms10:17 Lord, you hear the longings of those who are hurting. You cheer them up and give them hope. You listen to their cries." 
Psalms10:18 You stand up for those whose fathers have died and for those who have been beaten down. You do it so that no one made of dust may terrify others anymore. 
Psalms11:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. I run to the Lord for safety. So how can you say to me, ""Fly away like a bird to your mountain." 
Psalms11:2 Look! Evil people are bending their bows. They are placing their arrows against the strings. They are planning to shoot from the shadows at those who have honest hearts. 
Psalms11:3 When law and order are being destroyed, what can godly people do?""" 
Psalms11:4 The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord is on his throne in heaven. He watches all people. His eyes study them. 
Psalms11:5 The Lord watches over those who do what is right. But he hates sinful people and those who love to hurt others. 
Psalms11:6 He will pour out flaming coals and burning sulfur on those who do what is wrong. A hot and dry wind will destroy them. 
Psalms11:7 The Lord always does what is right. So he loves it when people do what is fair. Those who are honest will enjoy his blessing. 
Psalms12:1 For the director of music. For sheminith. A psalm of David. Help, Lord! Those who do what is right are gone. Those who are faithful have disappeared from the earth." 
Psalms12:2 Everyone tells lies to his neighbors. With his lips he praises others, but he doesn't really mean it." 
Psalms12:3 May the Lord cut off all lips that don't mean what they say. May he cut out every tongue that brags. 
Psalms12:4 They say, ""We will win the battle with our tongues. Our lips belong to us. No one else is in charge of us.""" 
Psalms12:5 The Lord says, ""The weak are beaten down. Those who are in need groan. So I will stand up to help them. I will keep them safe from those who tell lies about them.""" 
Psalms12:6 The words of the Lord are perfect. They are like silver made pure in a clay furnace. They are like silver made pure seven times over. 
Psalms12:7 Lord, you will keep us safe. You will always keep sinners from hurting us." 
Psalms12:8 Proud and sinful people walk around openly when the evil they do is praised by others. 
Psalms13:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Lord, how long must I wait? Will you forget me forever? How long will you turn your face away from me?" 
Psalms13:2 How long must I struggle with my thoughts? How long must my heart be sad day after day? How long will my enemies keep winning the battle over me? 
Psalms13:3 Lord my God, look at me and answer me. Give me new life, or I will die." 
Psalms13:4 Then my enemies will say, ""We have beaten him."" They will be filled with joy when I die." 
Psalms13:5 But I trust in your faithful love. My heart is filled with joy because you will save me. 
Psalms13:6 I will sing to the Lord. He has been so good to me. 
Psalms14:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Foolish people say in their hearts, ""There is no God."" They do all kinds of horrible and evil things. No one does anything good." 
Psalms14:2 The Lord looks down from heaven on all people. He wants to see if there are any who understand. He wants to see if there are any who trust in God. 
Psalms14:3 All of them have turned away. They have all become evil. No one does anything good, no one at all." 
Psalms14:4 Won't those who do evil ever learn? They eat up my people as if they were eating bread. They don't call out to the Lord for help. 
Psalms14:5 Just look at them! They are filled with terror because God is among those who do right. 
Psalms14:6 You who do evil make it hard for poor people to do what they plan to do. But the Lord is their place of safety. 
Psalms14:7 How I pray that the One who saves Israel will come out of Zion! Then the Lord will bless his people with great success again. So let the people of Jacob be filled with joy! Let Israel be glad! 
Psalms15:1 A psalm of David. Lord, who can live in your sacred tent? Who can stay on your holy hill?" 
Psalms15:2 Anyone who lives without blame and does what is right. He speaks the truth from his heart. 
Psalms15:3 He doesn't tell lies about others. He doesn't do wrong to his neighbors. He doesn't say anything bad about them. 
Psalms15:4 He hates sinful people. He honors those who have respect for the Lord. He keeps his promises even when it hurts. 
Psalms15:5 He lends his money without charging too much interest. He doesn't accept money to harm those who aren't guilty. Anyone who lives like that will always be secure. 
Psalms16:1 A miktam of David. God, keep me safe. I go to you for safety." 
Psalms16:2 I said to the Lord, ""You are my Lord. Without you, I don't have anything that is good.""" 
Psalms16:3 God's people who live in our land are glorious. I take great delight in them. 
Psalms16:4 Those who run after other gods will have nothing but trouble. I will not pour out offerings of blood to those gods. My lips will not speak their names. 
Psalms16:5 Lord, everything you have given me is good. You have made my life secure." 
Psalms16:6 I am very pleased with what you have given me. I am very happy with what I've received from you. 
Psalms16:7 I will praise the Lord. He gives me good advice. Even at night my heart teaches me. 
Psalms16:8 I know that the Lord is always with me. He is at my right hand. I will always be secure. 
Psalms16:9 So my heart is glad. Joy is on my tongue. My body also will be secure. 
Psalms16:10 You will not leave me in the grave. You will not let your faithful one rot away. 
Psalms16:11 You always show me the path that leads to life. You will fill me with joy when I am with you. You will give me endless pleasures at your right hand. 
Psalms17:1 A prayer of David. Lord, hear me when I ask you to treat me fairly. Listen to my cry for help. Hear my prayer. It doesn't come from lips that tell lies." 
Psalms17:2 When you hand down your sentence, may it be in my favor. May your eyes see what is right." 
Psalms17:3 Look deep down into my heart. Study me carefully at night. Put me to the test. You won't find anything wrong. I have made up my mind that my mouth won't say sinful things. 
Psalms17:4 I don't do the things other people do. By obeying your word I have kept myself from acting like those who try to hurt others. 
Psalms17:5 My steps have stayed on your paths. My feet have not slipped. 
Psalms17:6 God, I call out to you because you will answer me. Listen to me. Hear my prayer." 
Psalms17:7 Show the wonder of your great love. By using your powerful right hand, you save those who go to you for safety from their enemies." 
Psalms17:8 Take good care of me, just as you would take care of your own eyes. Hide me in the shadow of your wings." 
Psalms17:9 Save me from the sinful people who attack me. Save me from my deadly enemies who are all around me. 
Psalms17:10 They make their hearts hard and stubborn. Their mouths speak with pride. 
Psalms17:11 They have tracked me down. They are all around me. Their eyes watch for a chance to throw me to the ground. 
Psalms17:12 They are like a hungry lion, waiting to attack. They are like a powerful lion, hiding in the bushes." 
Psalms17:13 Lord, rise up. Oppose them and bring them down. With your sword, save me from those evil people." 
Psalms17:14 Lord, by your power save me from people like that. They belong to this world. They get their reward in this life. You satisfy the hunger of those you love. Their children have plenty. And those children store up wealth for their children." 
Psalms18:1 I love you, Lord. You give me strength." 
Psalms18:2 The Lord is my rock and my fort. He is the One who saves me. My God is my rock. I go to him for safety. He is like a shield to me. He's the power that saves me. He's my place of safety. 
Psalms18:3 I call out to the Lord. He is worthy of praise. He saves me from my enemies. 
Psalms18:4 The ropes of death were almost wrapped around me. A destroying flood swept over me. 
Psalms18:5 The ropes of the grave were tight around me. Death set its trap in front of me. 
Psalms18:6 When I was in trouble, I called out to the Lord. I cried to my God for help. From his temple he heard my voice. My cry for help reached his ears." 
Psalms18:7 The earth trembled and shook. The base of the mountains rocked back and forth. It trembled because the Lord was angry. 
Psalms18:8 Smoke came out of his nose. Flames of fire came out of his mouth. Burning coals blazed out of it. 
Psalms18:9 He opened the heavens and came down. Dark clouds were under his feet. 
Psalms18:10 He got on the cherubim and flew. The wings of the wind lifted him up. 
Psalms18:11 He covered himself with darkness. The dark rain clouds of the sky were like a tent around him. 
Psalms18:12 Clouds came out of the brightness that was all around him. They came with hailstones and flashes of lightning. 
Psalms18:13 The Lord thundered from heaven. The voice of the Most High God was heard. 
Psalms18:14 He shot his arrows and scattered our enemies. He sent great flashes of lightning and chased the enemies away. 
Psalms18:15 The bottom of the sea could be seen. The foundations of the earth were uncovered. Lord, it happened when your anger blazed out. It came like a blast of breath from your nose." 
Psalms18:16 He reached down from heaven. He took hold of me. He lifted me out of deep waters. 
Psalms18:17 He saved me from my powerful enemies. He set me free from those who were too strong for me. 
Psalms18:18 They stood up to me when I was in trouble. But the Lord helped me. 
Psalms18:19 He brought me out into a wide and safe place. He saved me because he was pleased with me. 
Psalms18:20 The Lord has been good to me because I do what is right. He has rewarded me because I lead a pure life. 
Psalms18:21 I have lived the way the Lord wanted me to. I haven't done evil by turning away from my God. 
Psalms18:22 I keep all of his laws in mind. I haven't turned away from his commands. 
Psalms18:23 He knows that I am without blame. He knows I've kept myself from sinning. 
Psalms18:24 The Lord has rewarded me for doing what is right. He has rewarded me because I haven't done anything wrong. 
Psalms18:25 Lord, to those who are faithful you show that you are faithful. To those who are without blame you show that you are without blame." 
Psalms18:26 To those who are pure you show that you are pure. But to those whose paths are crooked you show that you are clever. 
Psalms18:27 You save those who aren't proud. But you bring down those whose eyes are proud. 
Psalms18:28 Lord, you keep the lamp of my life burning brightly. You are my God. You bring light into my darkness." 
Psalms18:29 With your help I can attack a troop of soldiers. With the help of my God I can climb over a wall. 
Psalms18:30 God's way is perfect. The word of the Lord doesn't have any flaws. He is like a shield to all who go to him for safety. 
Psalms18:31 Who is God except the Lord? Who is the Rock except our God? 
Psalms18:32 God gives me strength for the battle. He makes my way perfect. 
Psalms18:33 He makes my feet like the feet of a deer. He helps me stand on the highest places. 
Psalms18:34 He trains my hands to fight every battle. My arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
Psalms18:35 Lord, you are like a shield that keeps me safe. You help me win the battle. Your strong right hand keeps me going. You bend down to make me great." 
Psalms18:36 You give me a wide path to walk on so that I don't twist my ankles. 
Psalms18:37 I chased my enemies and caught them. I didn't turn back until they were destroyed. 
Psalms18:38 I crushed them so that they couldn't get up. They fell under my feet. 
Psalms18:39 Lord, you gave me strength to fight the battle. You made my enemies bow down at my feet." 
Psalms18:40 You made them turn their backs and run away. So I destroyed my enemies. 
Psalms18:41 They cried out for help. But there was no one to save them. They called out to you. But you didn't answer them. 
Psalms18:42 I beat them as fine as dust blown by the wind. I poured them out like mud in the streets. 
Psalms18:43 You saved me when my own people attacked me. You made me the ruler over nations. People I didn't know serve me now. 
Psalms18:44 As soon as they hear me, they obey me. People from other lands bow down to me in fear." 
Psalms18:45 All of them give up hope. They come trembling out of their hiding places. 
Psalms18:46 The Lord lives! Give praise to my Rock! Give honor to God my Savior! 
Psalms18:47 He is the God who pays my enemies back. He brings the nations under my control. 
Psalms18:48 He saves me from my enemies. You have honored me more than them. You have saved me from men who want to hurt me. 
Psalms18:49 Lord, I will praise you among the nations. I will sing praises to you." 
Psalms18:50 The Lord helps his king win great battles. He shows his faithful love to his anointed king. He shows it to me and my family forever. 
Psalms19:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. The heavens tell about the glory of God. The skies show that his hands created them. 
Psalms19:2 Day after day they speak about it. Night after night they make it known. 
Psalms19:3 But they don't speak or use words. No sound is heard from them. 
Psalms19:4 At the same time, their voice goes out into the whole earth. Their words go out from one end of the world to the other. God has set up a tent in the heavens for the sun." 
Psalms19:5 The sun is like a groom coming out of the room where he spent his wedding night. The sun is like a great runner who takes delight in running a race. 
Psalms19:6 It rises at one end of the heavens. Then it moves across to the other end. Nothing can hide from its heat. 
Psalms19:7 The law of the Lord is perfect. It gives us new strength. The laws of the Lord can be trusted. They make childish people wise. 
Psalms19:8 The rules of the Lord are right. They give joy to our hearts. The commands of the Lord shine brightly. They give light to our minds. 
Psalms19:9 The law that brings respect for the Lord is pure. It lasts forever. The directions the Lord gives are true. All of them are completely right. 
Psalms19:10 They are more priceless than gold. They have greater value than huge amounts of pure gold. They are sweeter than honey that is taken from the honeycomb. 
Psalms19:11 I am warned by them. When I obey them, I am greatly rewarded." 
Psalms19:12 Can I know my mistakes? Forgive my hidden faults. 
Psalms19:13 Keep me also from the sins I want to commit. May they not be my master. Then I will be without blame. I will not be guilty of any great sin against your law. 
Psalms19:14 Lord, may the words of my mouth and the thoughts of my heart be pleasing in your eyes. You are my Rock and my Redeemer." 
Psalms20:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. May the Lord answer you when you are in trouble. May the God of Jacob keep you safe. 
Psalms20:2 May he send you help from the sacred tent. May he give you aid from Zion. 
Psalms20:3 May he remember all of your sacrifices. May he accept your burnt offerings. Selah 
Psalms20:4 May he give you what your heart longs for. May he make all of your plans succeed. 
Psalms20:5 We will shout with joy when you win the battle. We will lift up our flags in the name of our God. May the Lord give you everything you ask for. 
Psalms20:6 Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed king. He answers him from his holy heaven. The power of God's right hand saves the king. 
Psalms20:7 Some trust in chariots. Some trust in horses. But we trust in the Lord our God. 
Psalms20:8 They are brought to their knees and fall down. But we get up and stand firm. 
Psalms20:9 Lord, save the king! Answer us when we call out to you!" 
Psalms21:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Lord, the king is filled with joy because you are strong. How great is his joy because you help him win his battles!" 
Psalms21:2 You have given him what his heart longed for. You haven't kept back from him what his lips asked for. Selah 
Psalms21:3 You welcomed him with rich blessings. You placed a crown of pure gold on his head. 
Psalms21:4 He asked you for life, and you gave it to him. You promised him days that would never end." 
Psalms21:5 His glory is great because you helped him win his battles. You have honored him with glory and majesty. 
Psalms21:6 You have given him blessings that will last forever. You have made him glad and joyful because you are with him. 
Psalms21:7 The king trusts in the Lord. The faithful love of the Most High God will keep the king secure. 
Psalms21:8 You, the king, will capture all of your enemies. Your right hand will take hold of them." 
Psalms21:9 When you appear, you will be like a flaming furnace to them. The Lord will swallow them up in his anger. His fire will burn them up." 
Psalms21:10 You will wipe their children from the face of the earth. You will remove them from the human race. 
Psalms21:11 Your enemies make evil plans against you. They think up evil things to do. But they can't succeed. 
Psalms21:12 You will make them turn their backs and run away when you aim your arrows at them. 
Psalms21:13 Lord, may you be honored because you are strong. We will sing and praise your might." 
Psalms22:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David to the tune of The Doe of the Morning. My God, my God, why have you deserted me? Why do you seem to be so far away when I need you to save me? Why do you seem to be so far away that you can't hear my groans?" 
Psalms22:2 My God, I cry out in the daytime. But you don't answer. I cry out at night. I can't keep quiet." 
Psalms22:3 But you rule from your throne as the Holy One. You are the God Israel praises. 
Psalms22:4 Our people of long ago put their trust in you. They trusted in you, and you saved them." 
Psalms22:5 They cried out to you and were saved. They trusted in you, and you didn't let them down." 
Psalms22:6 People treat me like a worm and not a man. They hate me and look down on me. 
Psalms22:7 All those who see me laugh at me. They shout at me and make fun of me. They shake their heads at me. 
Psalms22:8 They say, ""He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord help him. If the Lord is pleased with him, let him save him.""" 
Psalms22:9 But you brought me out of my mother's body. You made me trust in you even when I was at my mother's breast. 
Psalms22:10 From the time I was born, you took good care of me. Ever since I came out of my mother's body, you have been my God." 
Psalms22:11 Don't be far away from me. Trouble is near, and there is no one to help me." 
Psalms22:12 Many enemies are all around me. They are like strong bulls from the land of Bashan. 
Psalms22:13 They are like roaring lions that tear to pieces what they kill. They open their mouths wide to attack me. 
Psalms22:14 My strength is like water that is poured out on the ground. I feel as if my bones aren't connected. My heart has turned to wax. It has melted away inside me. 
Psalms22:15 My strength is dried up like a piece of broken pottery. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You bring me down to the edge of the grave. 
Psalms22:16 A group of sinful people has closed in on me. They are all around me like a pack of dogs. They have pierced my hands and my feet. 
Psalms22:17 I can see all of my bones right through my skin. People stare at me. They laugh when I suffer. 
Psalms22:18 They divide up my clothes among them. They cast lots for what I am wearing. 
Psalms22:19 Lord, don't be so far away. You give me strength. Come quickly to help me." 
Psalms22:20 Save me from the sword. Save the only life I have. Save me from the power of those dogs. 
Psalms22:21 Save me from the mouths of those lions. Save me from the horns of those wild oxen. 
Psalms22:22 I will announce your name to my brothers and sisters. I will praise you among those who worship you. 
Psalms22:23 You who have respect for the Lord, praise him! All you people of Jacob, honor him! All you people of Israel, worship him!" 
Psalms22:24 He has not forgotten the one who is hurting. He has not turned away from his suffering. He has not turned his face away from him. He has listened to his cry for help. 
Psalms22:25 Because of what you have done, I will praise you in the whole community of those who worship you. In front of those who respect you, I will keep my promises." 
Psalms22:26 Those who are poor will eat and be satisfied. Those who look to the Lord will praise him. May their hearts be filled with new hope! 
Psalms22:27 People from one end of the earth to the other will remember and turn to the Lord. The people of all the nations will bow down before him. 
Psalms22:28 The Lord is King. He rules over the nations. 
Psalms22:29 All the rich people of the earth will worship God and take part in his feasts. All those who go down to the edge of the grave will fall on their knees in front of him. I'm talking about those who can hardly keep themselves alive. 
Psalms22:30 Those who are not yet born will serve him. Those who are born later will be told about the Lord. 
Psalms22:31 And they will tell people who have not yet been born that he has done what is right. 
Psalms23:1 A psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. He gives me everything I need. 
Psalms23:2 He lets me lie down in fields of green grass. He leads me beside quiet waters. 
Psalms23:3 He gives me new strength. He guides me in the right paths for the honor of his name. 
Psalms23:4 Even though I walk through the darkest valley, I will not be afraid. You are with me. Your shepherd's rod and staff comfort me." 
Psalms23:5 You prepare a feast for me right in front of my enemies. You pour oil on my head. My cup runs over. 
Psalms23:6 I am sure that your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life. And I will live in the house of the Lord forever. 
Psalms24:1 A psalm of David. The earth belongs to the Lord. And so does everything in it. The world belongs to him. And so do all those who live in it. 
Psalms24:2 He set it firmly on the oceans. He made it secure on the waters. 
Psalms24:3 Who can go up to the temple on the hill of the Lord? Who can stand in his holy place? 
Psalms24:4 Anyone who has clean hands and a pure heart. He does not worship the statue of a god. He doesn't use the name of that god when he makes a promise. 
Psalms24:5 People like that will receive the Lord's blessing. When God their Savior hands down his sentence, it will be in their favor." 
Psalms24:6 The people who look to God are like that. God of Jacob, they look to you. Selah" 
Psalms24:7 Open wide, you gates. Open up, you age-old doors. Then the King of glory will come in." 
Psalms24:8 Who is the King of glory? The Lord, who is strong and mighty. The Lord, who is mighty in battle." 
Psalms24:9 Open wide, you gates. Open wide, you age-old doors. Then the King of glory will come in." 
Psalms24:10 Who is he, this King of glory? The Lord who rules over all. He is the King of glory. Selah" 
Psalms25:1 A psalm of David. Lord, I worship you." 
Psalms25:2 My God, I trust in you. Don't let me be put to shame. Don't let my enemies win the battle over me." 
Psalms25:3 Those who put their hope in you will never be put to shame. But those who can't be trusted will be put to shame. They have no excuse. 
Psalms25:4 Lord, show me your ways. Teach me how to follow you." 
Psalms25:5 Guide me in your truth. Teach me. You are God my Savior. I put my hope in you all day long. 
Psalms25:6 Lord, remember your great mercy and love. You have shown them to your people for a long time." 
Psalms25:7 Don't remember the sins I committed when I was young. Don't remember how often I refused to obey you. Remember me because you love me. Lord, you are good." 
Psalms25:8 The Lord is honest and good. He teaches sinners to walk in his ways. 
Psalms25:9 He shows those who aren't proud how to do what is right. He teaches them his ways. 
Psalms25:10 All of the Lord's ways are loving and faithful for those who obey what his covenant commands. 
Psalms25:11 Lord, be true to your name. Forgive my sin, even though it is great." 
Psalms25:12 Who is the man who has respect for the Lord? God will teach him the way he has chosen for him. 
Psalms25:13 Things will always go well for him. His children will be given the land. 
Psalms25:14 The Lord shares his plans with those who have respect for him. He makes his covenant known to them. 
Psalms25:15 My eyes always look to the Lord. He alone can set my feet free from the trap. 
Psalms25:16 Turn to me and show me your favor. I am lonely and hurting. 
Psalms25:17 The troubles of my heart have increased. Set me free from my great pain. 
Psalms25:18 Look at how I'm hurting! See how much I suffer! Take away all of my sins. 
Psalms25:19 Look at how many enemies I have! See how terrible their hatred is for me! 
Psalms25:20 Guard my life. Save me. Don't let me be put to shame. I go to you for safety. 
Psalms25:21 May my honest and good life keep me safe. I have put my hope in you. 
Psalms25:22 God, set Israel free from all of their troubles!" 
Psalms26:1 A psalm of David. Lord, when you hand down your sentence, let it be in my favor. I have lived without blame. I have trusted in the Lord. I have never doubted him." 
Psalms26:2 Lord, test me. Try me out. Look deep down into my heart and mind." 
Psalms26:3 Your love is always with me. I have always lived by your truth. 
Psalms26:4 I don't spend time with people who tell lies. I don't keep company with pretenders. 
Psalms26:5 I hate to be with a group of sinful people. I refuse to spend time with those who are evil. 
Psalms26:6 I wash my hands to show that I'm not guilty. Lord, I come near your altar." 
Psalms26:7 I shout my praise to you. I tell about all the wonderful things you have done. 
Psalms26:8 Lord, I love the house where you live. I love the place where your glory is." 
Psalms26:9 Don't destroy me together with sinners. Don't take my life away along with murderers. 
Psalms26:10 Their hands are always planning to do evil. Their right hands are full of money that bought them off. 
Psalms26:11 But I live without blame. Set me free and show me your favor. 
Psalms26:12 My feet stand on level ground. In the whole community I will praise the Lord. 
Psalms27:1 A psalm of David. The Lord gives me light and saves me. Why should I fear anyone? The Lord is my place of safety. Why should I be afraid? 
Psalms27:2 My enemies are evil. They will trip and fall when they attack me and try to eat me alive. 
Psalms27:3 Even if an army attacks me, my heart will not be afraid. Even if war breaks out against me, I will still trust in God." 
Psalms27:4 I'm asking the Lord for only one thing. Here is what I want. I want to live in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. I want to look at the beauty of the Lord. I want to worship him in his temple. 
Psalms27:5 When I'm in trouble, he will keep me safe in his house. He will hide me in the safety of his holy tent. He will put me on a rock that is very high." 
Psalms27:6 Then I will win the battle over my enemies who are all around me. At his holy tent I will offer my sacrifice with shouts of joy. I will sing and make music to the Lord. 
Psalms27:7 Lord, hear my voice when I call out to you. Show me your favor and answer me." 
Psalms27:8 My heart says, ""Look to him!"" Lord, I will look to you." 
Psalms27:9 Don't turn your face away from me. Don't turn me away because you are angry. You have helped me. God my Savior, don't say no to me. Don't desert me." 
Psalms27:10 My father and mother may desert me, but the Lord will accept me." 
Psalms27:11 Lord, teach me your ways. Lead me along a straight path. There are many people who beat me down." 
Psalms27:12 My enemies want to harm me. So don't turn me over to them. Witnesses who tell lies are rising up against me. They are trying to destroy me. 
Psalms27:13 Here is something I am still sure of. I will see the Lord's goodness while I'm still alive. 
Psalms27:14 Wait for the Lord. Be strong and don't lose hope. Wait for the Lord. 
Psalms28:1 A psalm of David. Lord, my Rock, I call out to you. Pay attention to me. If you remain silent, I will die. I will be like those who have gone down into the grave." 
Psalms28:2 Hear my cry for your favor when I call out to you for help. Hear me when I lift up my hands in prayer toward your Most Holy Room. 
Psalms28:3 Don't drag me away with sinners. Don't drag me away with those who do evil. They speak in a friendly way to their neighbors. But their hearts are full of hatred. 
Psalms28:4 Pay them back for their evil actions. Pay them back for what their hands have done. Give them exactly what they should get. 
Psalms28:5 They don't care about the Lord's mighty acts. They don't care about what his hands have done. So he will tear them down. He will never build them up again. 
Psalms28:6 Give praise to the Lord. He has heard my cry for his favor. 
Psalms28:7 The Lord gives me strength. He is like a shield that keeps me safe. My heart trusts in him, and he helps me. My heart jumps for joy. I will sing and give thanks to him." 
Psalms28:8 The Lord gives strength to his people. He guards and saves his anointed king. 
Psalms28:9 Save your people. Bless those who belong to you. Be their shepherd. Take care of them forever. 
Psalms29:1 A psalm of David. Praise the Lord, you mighty angels. Praise the Lord for his glory and strength." 
Psalms29:2 Praise the Lord for the glory that belongs to him. Worship the Lord because of his beauty and holiness. 
Psalms29:3 The voice of the Lord is heard over the waters. The God of glory thunders. The Lord thunders over the mighty waters. 
Psalms29:4 The voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is majestic. 
Psalms29:5 The voice of the Lord breaks the cedar trees. The Lord breaks the cedars of Lebanon into pieces. 
Psalms29:6 He makes the mountains of Lebanon skip like a calf. He makes Mount Hermon jump like a young wild ox. 
Psalms29:7 The voice of the Lord strikes with flashes of lightning. 
Psalms29:8 The voice of the Lord shakes the desert. The Lord shakes the Desert of Kadesh. 
Psalms29:9 The voice of the Lord twists the oak trees. It strips the forests bare. And in his temple everyone cries out, ""Glory!""" 
Psalms29:10 The Lord on his throne rules over the flood. The Lord rules from his throne as King forever. 
Psalms29:11 The Lord gives strength to his people. The Lord blesses his people with peace. 
Psalms30:1 A psalm of David. A song for committing the completed temple to God. Lord, I will give you honor. You brought me out of deep trouble. You didn't give my enemies the joy of seeing me die." 
Psalms30:2 Lord my God, I called out to you for help. And you healed me." 
Psalms30:3 Lord, you brought me up from the edge of the grave. You kept me from going down into the pit." 
Psalms30:4 Sing to the Lord, you who are faithful to him. Praise him, because his name is holy." 
Psalms30:5 His anger lasts for only a moment. But his favor lasts for a person's whole life. Sobbing can remain through the night. But joy comes in the morning. 
Psalms30:6 When I felt safe, I said, ""I will always be secure.""" 
Psalms30:7 Lord, when you showed me your favor, you made my mountain stand firm. But when you turned your face away from me, I was terrified." 
Psalms30:8 Lord, I called out to you. I cried to you for your favor." 
Psalms30:9 I said, ""What good will come if I die? What good will come if I go down into the grave? Can the dust of my dead body praise you? Can it tell how faithful you are?" 
Psalms30:10 Lord, hear me. Show me your favor. Lord, help me.""" 
Psalms30:11 You turned my loud crying into dancing. You removed my black clothes and dressed me with joy. 
Psalms30:12 So my heart will sing to you. I can't keep silent. Lord, my God, I will give you thanks forever." 
Psalms31:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Lord, I have gone to you for safety. Don't let me ever be put to shame. Save me, because you do what is right." 
Psalms31:2 Pay attention to me. Come quickly to help me. Be the rock I go to for safety. Be the strong fort that saves me. 
Psalms31:3 You are my rock and my fort. Lead me and guide me for the honor of your name. 
Psalms31:4 Free me from the trap that is set for me. You are my place of safety. 
Psalms31:5 Into your hands I commit my very life. Lord, set me free. You are my faithful God." 
Psalms31:6 I hate those who worship worthless statues of gods. I trust in the Lord. 
Psalms31:7 I will be glad and full of joy because you love me. You saw that I was hurting. You took note of my great pain. 
Psalms31:8 You have not handed me over to the enemy. You have put me in a wide and safe place. 
Psalms31:9 Lord, show me your favor. I'm in deep trouble. I'm so sad I can hardly see. My whole body grows weak with sadness." 
Psalms31:10 Pain has taken over my life. My years are spent in groaning. I have no strength because I'm hurting so much. My body is getting weaker and weaker. 
Psalms31:11 My neighbors make fun of me because I have so many enemies. My friends are afraid of me. Those who see me on the street run away from me. 
Psalms31:12 They have forgotten me. I might as well be dead. I have become like broken pottery. 
Psalms31:13 I hear the lies many people tell about me. There is terror all around me. Many have joined together against me. They plan to kill me. 
Psalms31:14 But I trust in you, Lord. I say, ""You are my God.""" 
Psalms31:15 My whole life is in your hands. Save me from my enemies. Save me from those who are chasing me. 
Psalms31:16 Let your face smile on me with favor. Save me because your love is faithful. 
Psalms31:17 Lord, I have cried out to you. Don't let me be put to shame. But let sinners be put to shame. Let them lie silent in the grave." 
Psalms31:18 Their lips tell lies. Let them be silenced. They speak with pride against those who do right. They make fun of them. 
Psalms31:19 How great your goodness is! You have stored it up for those who have respect for you. While other people watch, you give it to those who run to you for safety." 
Psalms31:20 They are safe because you are with them. You hide them from the evil plans of their enemies. In your house you keep them safe from those who bring charges against them. 
Psalms31:21 Give praise to the Lord. He showed me his wonderful love when my enemies attacked the city I was in. 
Psalms31:22 I was afraid and said, ""I've been cut off from you!"" But you heard my cry for your favor. You heard me when I called out to you for help." 
Psalms31:23 Love the Lord, all of you who are faithful to him! The Lord watches over the faithful. But he completely pays back those who are proud." 
Psalms31:24 Be strong, all of you who put your hope in the Lord. Never give up." 
Psalms32:1 A maskil of David. Blessed is the one whose lawless acts are forgiven. His sins have been taken away. 
Psalms32:2 Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord never counts against him. He doesn't want to cheat anyone. 
Psalms32:3 When I kept silent about my sin, my body became weak because I groaned all day long." 
Psalms32:4 Day and night your heavy hand punished me. I became weaker and weaker as I do in the heat of summer. Selah 
Psalms32:5 Then I admitted my sin to you. I didn't cover up the wrong I had done. I said, ""I will admit my lawless acts to the Lord."" And you forgave the guilt of my sin. Selah" 
Psalms32:6 Let everyone who is godly pray to you while they can still look to you. When troubles come like a flood, they certainly won't reach those who are godly." 
Psalms32:7 You are my hiding place. You will keep me safe from trouble. You will surround me with songs sung by those who praise you because you save your people. Selah 
Psalms32:8 I will guide you and teach you the way you should go. I will give you good advice and watch over you. 
Psalms32:9 Don't be like the horse or the mule. They can't understand anything. They have to be controlled by bits and bridles. If they aren't, they won't come to you." 
Psalms32:10 Sinful people have all kinds of trouble. But the Lord's faithful love is all around those who trust in him. 
Psalms32:11 Be glad because of what the Lord has done for you. Be joyful, you who do what is right! Sing, all of you whose hearts are honest!" 
Psalms33:1 You who are godly, sing with joy to the Lord. It is right for honest people to praise him." 
Psalms33:2 Praise the Lord with the harp. Make music to him on the lyre that has ten strings. 
Psalms33:3 Sing a new song to him. Play with skill, and shout with joy." 
Psalms33:4 What the Lord says is right and true. He is faithful in everything he does. 
Psalms33:5 The Lord loves what is right and fair. The earth is full of his faithful love. 
Psalms33:6 The heavens were made when the Lord commanded it to happen. All of the stars were created by the breath of his mouth. 
Psalms33:7 He gathers the waters of the sea together. He puts the oceans in their places. 
Psalms33:8 Let the whole earth have respect for the Lord. Let all of the people in the world honor him. 
Psalms33:9 He spoke, and the world came into being. He commanded, and it stood firm." 
Psalms33:10 The Lord blocks the sinful plans of the nations. He keeps them from doing what they want to do. 
Psalms33:11 But the plans of the Lord stand firm forever. What he wants to do will last for all time. 
Psalms33:12 Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Blessed are the people he chose to be his own. 
Psalms33:13 From heaven the Lord looks down and sees everyone. 
Psalms33:14 From his throne he watches all those who live on the earth. 
Psalms33:15 He creates the hearts of all people. He is aware of everything they do. 
Psalms33:16 A king isn't saved just because his army is big. A soldier doesn't escape just because he is very strong. 
Psalms33:17 People can't trust a horse to save them either. Though it is very strong, it can't save them." 
Psalms33:18 But the Lord looks with favor on those who respect him. He watches over those who put their hope in his faithful love. 
Psalms33:19 He watches over them to save them from death. He wants to keep them alive when there is no food in the land. 
Psalms33:20 We wait in hope for the Lord. He helps us. He is like a shield that keeps us safe. 
Psalms33:21 Our hearts are full of joy because of him. We trust in him, because he is holy." 
Psalms33:22 Lord, may your faithful love rest on us. We put our hope in you." 
Psalms34:1 A psalm of David when he was in front of Abimelech and pretended to be out of his mind. Abimelech drove him away, and he left. I will thank the Lord at all times. My lips will always praise him." 
Psalms34:2 I will honor the Lord. Let those who are hurting hear and be joyful. 
Psalms34:3 Join me in giving glory to the Lord. Let us honor him together. 
Psalms34:4 I looked to the Lord, and he answered me. He saved me from everything I was afraid of." 
Psalms34:5 Those who look to him beam with joy. They are never put to shame. 
Psalms34:6 This poor man called out, and the Lord heard him. He saved him out of all of his troubles." 
Psalms34:7 The angel of the Lord stands guard around those who have respect for him. And he saves them. 
Psalms34:8 Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who goes to him for safety. 
Psalms34:9 You people of God, have respect for the Lord. Those who respect him have everything they need." 
Psalms34:10 The lions may grow weak and hungry. But those who look to the Lord have every good thing they need. 
Psalms34:11 My children, come. Listen to me. I will teach you to have respect for the Lord." 
Psalms34:12 Do you love life and want to see many good days? 
Psalms34:13 Then keep your tongues from speaking evil. Keep your lips from telling lies. 
Psalms34:14 Turn away from evil, and do good. Look for peace, and go after it." 
Psalms34:15 The Lord looks with favor on those who are godly. His ears are open to their cry. 
Psalms34:16 The Lord doesn't look with favor on those who do evil. He removes all memory of them from the earth. 
Psalms34:17 Godly people cry out, and the Lord hears them. He saves them from all of their troubles." 
Psalms34:18 The Lord is close to those whose hearts have been broken. He saves those whose spirits have been crushed. 
Psalms34:19 Anyone who does what is right may have many troubles. But the Lord saves him from all of them. 
Psalms34:20 The Lord watches over all of his bones. Not one of them will be broken. 
Psalms34:21 Sinners will be killed by their own evil. The enemies of godly people will be judged. 
Psalms34:22 The Lord sets those who serve him free. No one who goes to him for safety will be judged. 
Psalms35:1 A psalm of David. Lord, stand up against those who stand up against me. Fight against those who fight against me." 
Psalms35:2 Pick up your large shields and your small shields. Rise up and help me. 
Psalms35:3 Get your spear and javelin ready to fight against those who are chasing me. Say to me, ""I will save you.""" 
Psalms35:4 Let those who are trying to kill me be brought down in dishonor. Let those who plan to destroy me be turned back in terror. 
Psalms35:5 Let them be like straw blowing in the wind, while the angel of the Lord drives them away." 
Psalms35:6 Let their path be dark and slippery, while the angel of the Lord chases them." 
Psalms35:7 They set a trap for me without any reason. Without any reason they dug a pit to catch me. 
Psalms35:8 So let them be destroyed without warning. Let the trap they set for me catch them. Let them fall into the pit and be destroyed. 
Psalms35:9 Then I will be full of joy because of what the Lord has done. I will be glad because he has saved me. 
Psalms35:10 My whole being will cry out, ""Who is like you, Lord? You save poor people from those who are too strong for them. You save poor and needy people from those who rob them.""" 
Psalms35:11 Mean people come forward to give witness against me. They ask me things I don't know anything about. 
Psalms35:12 They pay me back with evil, even though I was good to them. They leave me without hope." 
Psalms35:13 But when they were sick, I put on black clothes. I made myself low by going without food. My prayers for them weren't always answered." 
Psalms35:14 So I went around crying as if I were crying over my friend or relative. I bowed my head in sadness as if I were sobbing over my mother. 
Psalms35:15 But when I tripped and fell, they were all very happy. Attackers gathered against me when I didn't even know it. They kept on telling lies about me." 
Psalms35:16 They were like ungodly people. They made fun of me. They ground their teeth at me in hate. 
Psalms35:17 Lord, how much longer will you just look on? Save me from their deadly attacks. Save the only life I have. Save me from those lions." 
Psalms35:18 I will give you thanks in the whole community. Among all of your people I will praise you. 
Psalms35:19 Don't let those who are my enemies without any reason laugh at me and make fun of me. Don't let those who hate me without any reason wink at me with an evil purpose. 
Psalms35:20 They don't speak words of peace. They make up false charges against those who live quietly in the land. 
Psalms35:21 They open their mouths wide at me. They make fun of me. They say, ""With our own eyes we have seen what you did.""" 
Psalms35:22 Lord, you have seen this. Don't be silent. Lord, don't be far away from me." 
Psalms35:23 Wake up! Rise up to help me! My God and Lord, stand up for me." 
Psalms35:24 Lord my God, when you hand down your sentence, let it be in my favor. You always do what is right. Don't let my enemies have the joy of seeing me fall." 
Psalms35:25 Don't let them think, ""That's exactly what we wanted!"" Don't let them say, ""We have swallowed him up.""" 
Psalms35:26 Let all those who laugh at me because I'm in trouble be ashamed and bewildered. Let all who think they are better than I am put on shame and dishonor as if they were clothes. 
Psalms35:27 Let those who are happy when my name is cleared shout with joy and gladness. Let them always say, ""May the Lord be honored. He is pleased when everything goes well with the one who serves him.""" 
Psalms35:28 You always do what is right. My tongue will speak about it and praise you all day long. 
Psalms36:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David, the servant of the Lord. Here are the words God has given me to say about the evil ways of anyone who sins. He doesn't have any respect for God." 
Psalms36:2 He praises himself so much that he can't see his sin or hate it. 
Psalms36:3 His mouth speaks words that are evil and false. He has stopped being wise. He has stopped doing good. 
Psalms36:4 Even as he lies in bed he makes evil plans. He commits himself to a sinful way of life. He never says no to what is wrong. 
Psalms36:5 Lord, your love is as high as the heavens. Your faithful love reaches up to the skies." 
Psalms36:6 You are as holy as the mountains are high. You are as honest as the oceans are deep. Lord, you keep people and animals safe." 
Psalms36:7 How priceless your faithful love is! Important and ordinary people alike find safety in the shadow of your wings. 
Psalms36:8 They eat well because there is more than enough in your house. You let them drink from your river that flows with good things. 
Psalms36:9 You have the fountain of life. We are filled with light because you give us light. 
Psalms36:10 Keep on loving those who know you. Keep on doing right to those whose hearts are honest. 
Psalms36:11 Don't let the feet of those who are proud step on me. Don't let the hands of those who are evil drive me away. 
Psalms36:12 See how those who do evil have fallen! They are thrown down. They aren't able to get up. 
Psalms37:1 A psalm of David. Don't be upset because of sinful people. Don't be jealous of those who do wrong. 
Psalms37:2 Like grass, they will soon dry up. Like green plants, they will soon die." 
Psalms37:3 Trust in the Lord and do good. Then you will live in the land and enjoy its food. 
Psalms37:4 Find your delight in the Lord. Then he will give you everything your heart really wants. 
Psalms37:5 Commit your life to the Lord. Here is what he will do if you trust in him. 
Psalms37:6 He will make your godly ways shine like the dawn. He will make your honest life shine like the sun at noon. 
Psalms37:7 Be still. Be patient. Wait for the Lord to act. Don't be upset when other people succeed. Don't be upset when they carry out their evil plans. 
Psalms37:8 Keep from being angry. Turn away from anger. Don't be upset. That only leads to evil. 
Psalms37:9 Sinful people will be cut off from the land. But it will be given to those who put their hope in the Lord. 
Psalms37:10 In a little while, there won't be any more sinners. Even if you look for them, you won't be able to find them." 
Psalms37:11 But those who are free of pride will be given the land. They will enjoy great peace. 
Psalms37:12 Sinful people make plans to harm those who do what is right. They grind their teeth at them. 
Psalms37:13 But the Lord laughs at those who do evil. He knows the day is coming when he will judge them. 
Psalms37:14 Sinners pull out their swords. They bend their bows. They want to kill poor and needy people. They plan to murder those who lead honest lives. 
Psalms37:15 But they will be killed with their own swords. Their own bows will be broken. 
Psalms37:16 Those who do what is right may have very little. But it's better than the wealth of many sinners. 
Psalms37:17 The power of those who are evil will be broken. But the Lord takes good care of those who do what is right. 
Psalms37:18 Every day the Lord watches over those who are without blame. What he has given them will last forever. 
Psalms37:19 When trouble comes to them, they will have what they need. When there is little food in the land, they will still have plenty." 
Psalms37:20 But sinful people will die. The Lord's enemies will be like flowers in the field. They will disappear like smoke. 
Psalms37:21 Sinful people borrow and don't pay back. But those who are godly give freely to others. 
Psalms37:22 The Lord will give the land to those he blesses. But he will cut off those he puts a curse on. 
Psalms37:23 If the Lord is pleased with the way a man lives, he makes his steps secure." 
Psalms37:24 Even if the man trips, he won't fall. The Lord's hand takes good care of him." 
Psalms37:25 I once was young, and now I'm old. But I've never seen godly people deserted. I've never seen their children begging for bread." 
Psalms37:26 The godly are always giving and lending freely. Their children will be blessed. 
Psalms37:27 Turn away from evil and do good. Then you will live in the land forever. 
Psalms37:28 The Lord loves those who are honest. He will not desert those who are faithful to him. They will be kept safe forever. But the children of sinners will be cut off from the land. 
Psalms37:29 Those who do what is right will be given the land. They will live in it forever. 
Psalms37:30 The mouths of those who do what is right speak words of wisdom. They say what is honest. 
Psalms37:31 God's law is in their hearts. Their feet do not slip. 
Psalms37:32 Those who are evil hide and wait for godly people. They are trying to kill them. 
Psalms37:33 But the Lord will not leave the godly in their power. He will not let them be found guilty when they are brought into court. 
Psalms37:34 Wait for the Lord to act. Live as he wants you to. He will honor you by giving you the land. When sinners are cut off from it, you will see it." 
Psalms37:35 I saw a mean and sinful person. He was doing well, like a green tree in its own soil." 
Psalms37:36 But he soon passed away and was gone. Even though I looked for him, I couldn't find him." 
Psalms37:37 Think about those who are without blame. Look at those who are honest. A man who loves peace will have a tomorrow. 
Psalms37:38 But all sinners will be destroyed. Those who are evil won't have a tomorrow. They will be cut off from the land. 
Psalms37:39 The Lord saves those who do what is right. He is their place of safety when trouble comes. 
Psalms37:40 The Lord helps them and saves them. He saves them from sinful people because they go to him for safety. 
Psalms38:1 A psalm of David. A prayer. Lord, don't correct me when you are angry. Don't punish me when you are burning with anger." 
Psalms38:2 You have wounded me with your arrows. You have struck me with your hand. 
Psalms38:3 Because of your anger, my whole body is sick. Because of my sin, I'm not healthy." 
Psalms38:4 My guilt has become too much for me. It is a load too heavy to carry. 
Psalms38:5 My wounds are ugly. They stink. I've been foolish. I have sinned. 
Psalms38:6 I am bent over. I've been brought very low. All day long I go around sobbing. 
Psalms38:7 My back is filled with burning pain. My whole body is sick. 
Psalms38:8 I am weak. I feel as if I've been broken in pieces. I groan because of the great pain in my heart. 
Psalms38:9 Lord, everything I really want is clearly known to you. You always hear me when I sigh." 
Psalms38:10 My heart pounds. My strength is gone. My eyes can hardly see. 
Psalms38:11 My friends and companions avoid me because of my wounds. My neighbors stay far away from me. 
Psalms38:12 Those who are trying to kill me set their traps. Those who want to harm me talk about destroying me. All day long they plan ways to trick me. 
Psalms38:13 I'm like a deaf person. I can't hear. I'm like someone who can't speak, who can't say a word." 
Psalms38:14 I'm like a man who doesn't hear. I'm like someone whose mouth can't make any reply. 
Psalms38:15 Lord, I wait for you to help me. Lord my God, I know you will answer." 
Psalms38:16 I said, ""Don't let my enemies have the joy of seeing me fall. Don't let them brag when my foot slips.""" 
Psalms38:17 I am about to fall. My pain never leaves me. 
Psalms38:18 I admit that I have done wrong. I am troubled by my sin. 
Psalms38:19 I have many powerful enemies. They are strong and healthy. They hate me without any reason. 
Psalms38:20 They pay me back with evil, even though I was good to them. They tell lies about me because I try to do what is good." 
Psalms38:21 Lord, don't desert me. My God, don't be far away from me." 
Psalms38:22 Lord my Savior, come quickly to help me." 
Psalms39:1 For the director of music. For Jeduthun. A psalm of David. I said, ""I will be careful about how I live. I will not sin by what I say. I will keep my mouth closed when sinful people are near me.""" 
Psalms39:2 I was silent and kept quiet. I didn't even say anything good. But the pain inside me grew worse. 
Psalms39:3 My heart was deeply troubled. As I thought about what was happening to me, I became even more troubled. Then I spoke out." 
Psalms39:4 I said, ""Lord, show me when my life will end. Show me how many days I have left. Tell me how short my life will be." 
Psalms39:5 You have given me only a few days to live. My whole life doesn't seem like anything to you. No man's life lasts any longer than a breath. Selah 
Psalms39:6 People are only shadows as they go here and there. They rush around, but it doesn't mean anything. They pile up wealth, but they don't know who will get it." 
Psalms39:7 Lord, what can I look forward to now? You are the only hope I have." 
Psalms39:8 Save me from all the wrong things I've done. Don't let foolish people make fun of me. 
Psalms39:9 I keep silent. I don't open my mouth. You are the one who has caused all of this to happen. 
Psalms39:10 Please stop beating me. I'm about to die from the blows of your hand. 
Psalms39:11 You correct and punish people for their sin. Just as a moth eats cloth, you destroy their wealth. No one's life lasts any longer than a breath. Selah" 
Psalms39:12 Lord, hear my prayer. Listen to my cry for help. Pay attention to my sobbing. I'm like a guest in your home. I'm only a visitor, like all of my family who lived before me." 
Psalms39:13 Leave me alone. Let me be full of joy again before I die. 
Psalms40:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. I was patient while I waited for the Lord. He turned to me and heard my cry for help. 
Psalms40:2 I was sliding down into the pit of death, and he pulled me out. He brought me up out of the mud and dirt. He set my feet on a rock. He gave me a firm place to stand on." 
Psalms40:3 He gave me a new song to sing. It is a hymn of praise to our God. Many people will see what he has done and will worship him. They will put their trust in the Lord. 
Psalms40:4 Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord. He doesn't look to proud people for help. He doesn't turn away to worship statues of gods. 
Psalms40:5 Lord my God, no one can compare with you. You have done many miracles. And you plan to do many more for us. There are too many of them for me to talk about." 
Psalms40:6 You didn't want sacrifices and offerings. You weren't pleased with burnt offerings and sin offerings. You gave me ears to hear you and obey you. 
Psalms40:7 Then I said, ""Here I am. It is written about me in the scroll." 
Psalms40:8 My God, I have come to do what you want. Your law is in my heart.""" 
Psalms40:9 I have told the whole community of those who worship you that what you do is right. Lord, you know that I haven't kept quiet." 
Psalms40:10 I haven't kept to myself that what you did for me was right. I have spoken about how faithful you were when you saved me. I haven't hidden your love and truth from the whole community. 
Psalms40:11 Lord, don't hold back your mercy from me. May your love and truth always keep me safe." 
Psalms40:12 There are more troubles all around me than I can count. My sins have caught up with me, and I can't see any longer. My sins are more than the hairs of my head. I have lost all hope." 
Psalms40:13 Lord, please save me. Lord, come quickly to help me." 
Psalms40:14 Let all those who are trying to kill me be put to shame. Let them not be honored. Let all those who want to destroy me be turned back in shame. 
Psalms40:15 Some people make fun of me. Let them be shocked when their plans fail. 
Psalms40:16 But let all those who look to you be joyful and glad because of what you have done. Let those who love you because you save them always say, ""May the Lord be honored!""" 
Psalms40:17 But I am poor and needy. May the Lord be concerned about me. You are the One who helps me and saves me. My God, please don't wait any longer." 
Psalms41:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Blessed is the one who cares about weak people. When he is in trouble, the Lord saves him." 
Psalms41:2 The Lord will guard him and keep him alive. He will bless him in the land. He won't hand him over to the wishes of his enemies. 
Psalms41:3 The Lord will take care of him when he is lying sick in bed. He will make him well again. 
Psalms41:4 I said, ""Lord, show me your favor. Heal me. I have sinned against you.""" 
Psalms41:5 My enemies are saying bad things about me. They say, ""When will he die and be forgotten?""" 
Psalms41:6 When anyone comes to see me, he says things he doesn't mean. At the same time, he thinks up lies to tell against me. Then he goes out and spreads those lies around." 
Psalms41:7 All of my enemies whisper to each other about me. They want something terrible to happen to me. 
Psalms41:8 They say, ""He is sick and will die very soon. He will never get up from his bed again.""" 
Psalms41:9 Even my close friend, whom I trusted, has deserted me. I even shared my bread with him." 
Psalms41:10 But Lord, show me your favor. Make me well, so I can pay them back." 
Psalms41:11 Then I will know that you are pleased with me, because my enemies haven't won the battle over me." 
Psalms41:12 You will take good care of me because I've been honest. You will let me be with you forever. 
Psalms41:13 Give praise to the Lord, the God of Israel, for ever and ever. Amen and Amen." 
Psalms42:1 BOOK II A deer longs for streams of water. God, I long for you in the same way." 
Psalms42:2 I am thirsty for God. I am thirsty for the living God. When can I go and meet with him? 
Psalms42:3 My tears have been my food day and night. All day long people say to me, ""Where is your God?""" 
Psalms42:4 When I remember what has happened, I tell God all of my troubles. I remember how I used to walk along with the crowd of worshipers. I led them to the house of God. We shouted with joy and gave thanks as we went to the holy feast." 
Psalms42:5 My spirit, why are you so sad? Why are you so upset deep down inside me? Put your hope in God. Once again I will have reason to praise him. He is my Savior and" 
Psalms42:6 my God. My spirit is very sad deep down inside me. So I will remember you here where the Jordan River begins. I will remember you here on the Hermon mountains and on Mount Mizar. 
Psalms42:7 You have sent wave upon wave of trouble over me. It roars down on me like a waterfall. All of your waves and breakers have rolled over me. 
Psalms42:8 During the day the Lord sends his love to me. During the night I sing about him. I say a prayer to the God who gives me life. 
Psalms42:9 I say to God my Rock, ""Why have you forgotten me? Why must I go around in sorrow? Why am I beaten down by my enemies?""" 
Psalms42:10 My body suffers deadly pain as my enemies make fun of me. All day long they say to me, ""Where is your God?""" 
Psalms42:11 My spirit, why are you so sad? Why are you so upset deep down inside me? Put your hope in God. Once again I will have reason to praise him. He is my Savior and my God." 
Psalms43:1 God, when you hand down your decision, let it be in my favor. Stand up for me against an ungodly nation. Save me from those lying and sinful people." 
Psalms43:2 You are God, my place of safety. Why have you turned your back on me? Why must I go around in sorrow? Why am I beaten down by my enemies?" 
Psalms43:3 Send out your light and your truth. Let them guide me. Let them bring me back to your holy mountain, to the place where you live." 
Psalms43:4 Then I will go to the altar of God. I will go to God. He is my joy and my delight. God, you are my God. I will praise you by playing the harp." 
Psalms43:5 My spirit, why are you so sad? Why are you so upset deep down inside me? Put your hope in God. Once again I will have reason to praise him. He is my Savior and my God." 
Psalms44:1 For the director of music. A maskil of the Sons of Korah. God, we have heard what you did. Those who came before us have told us what you did in their days, in days long ago." 
Psalms44:2 With your powerful hand you drove out the nations. You settled our people in the land. You crushed the people who were there. And you made our people do well. 
Psalms44:3 They didn't win the land with their swords. They didn't gain success with their powerful arms. Your powerful right hand and your mighty arm gave them success. You looked on them with favor. You loved them. 
Psalms44:4 You are my King and my God. You give success to the people of Jacob. 
Psalms44:5 With your help we push our enemies back. By your power we walk all over them. 
Psalms44:6 I don't trust in my bow. My sword doesn't bring me success. 
Psalms44:7 But you give us success over our enemies. You put them to shame. 
Psalms44:8 All day long we talk about how great God is. We will praise your name forever. Selah 
Psalms44:9 But now you have turned your back on us and made us low. You don't march out with our armies anymore. 
Psalms44:10 You made us turn and run from our enemies. They have taken what belongs to us. 
Psalms44:11 You handed us over to be eaten up like sheep. You have scattered us among the nations. 
Psalms44:12 You sold your people for very little. You didn't gain anything when you sold them. 
Psalms44:13 You have made us something that our neighbors laugh at. Those who live around us make fun of us and tease us. 
Psalms44:14 The nations make jokes about us. They shake their heads at us. 
Psalms44:15 All day long I am reminded of my shame. My face is covered with it 
Psalms44:16 because of those who laugh at me and attack me with their words. They want to get even with me. 
Psalms44:17 All of this happened to us, even though we had not forgotten you. We had been true to the covenant you made with us." 
Psalms44:18 Our hearts had not turned away from you. Our feet had not wandered from your path. 
Psalms44:19 But you crushed us and left us to the wild dogs. You covered us over with deep darkness. 
Psalms44:20 We didn't forget our God. We didn't spread out our hands in prayer to a strange god. 
Psalms44:21 If we had, God would have discovered it. He knows the secrets of our hearts." 
Psalms44:22 But because of you, we face death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be killed." 
Psalms44:23 Lord, wake up! Why are you sleeping? Get up! Don't say no to us forever." 
Psalms44:24 Why do you turn your face away from us? Why do you forget our pain and troubles? 
Psalms44:25 We are brought down to the dust. Our bodies lie flat on the ground. 
Psalms44:26 Rise up and help us. Save us because of your faithful love. 
Psalms45:1 For the director of music. A maskil of the Sons of Korah. A wedding song to the tune of Lilies. My heart is full of beautiful words as I say my poem for the king. My tongue is like the pen of a skillful writer. 
Psalms45:2 You are the most excellent of men. Your lips have been given the ability to speak gracious words. God has blessed you forever. 
Psalms45:3 Mighty one, put your sword at your side. Put on glory and majesty as if they were your clothes." 
Psalms45:4 In your majesty ride out with power in honor of what is true and right. Do it in honor of all those who are not proud. Let your right hand do wonderful things. 
Psalms45:5 Shoot your sharp arrows into the hearts of your enemies. Let the nations come under your control. 
Psalms45:6 Your throne is the very throne of God. Your kingdom will last for ever and ever. You will rule by treating everyone fairly. 
Psalms45:7 You love what is right and hate what is evil. So your God has placed you above your companions. He has filled you with joy by pouring the sacred oil on your head. 
Psalms45:8 Myrrh and aloes and cassia make all of your robes smell good. In palaces decorated with ivory the music played on stringed instruments makes you glad. 
Psalms45:9 Daughters of kings are among the women you honor. At your right hand is the royal bride dressed in gold from Ophir. 
Psalms45:10 Royal bride, listen. Think about this and pay attention to it. Forget about your people and the home you came from." 
Psalms45:11 The king is charmed by your beauty. Honor him. He is now your master. 
Psalms45:12 The people of Tyre will come with gifts. Wealthy people will try to gain your favor. 
Psalms45:13 The princess comes into the palace in all her glory. Her gown has gold threads running through it. 
Psalms45:14 Dressed in beautiful clothes, she is led to the king. Her virgin companions follow her and are brought to him." 
Psalms45:15 They are led in with joy and gladness. They enter the palace of the king. 
Psalms45:16 Your sons will rule just as your father and grandfather did. You will make them princes through the whole land. 
Psalms45:17 I will make sure that people will always remember you. The nations will praise you for ever and ever. 
Psalms46:1 For the director of music. A song of the Sons of Korah. For alamoth. God is our place of safety. He gives us strength. He is always there to help us in times of trouble. 
Psalms46:2 The earth may fall apart. The mountains may fall into the middle of the sea. But we will not be afraid. 
Psalms46:3 The waters of the sea may roar and foam. The mountains may shake when the waters rise. But we will not be afraid. Selah 
Psalms46:4 God's blessings are like a river. They fill the city of God with joy. That city is the holy place where the Most High God lives. 
Psalms46:5 Because God is there, the city will not fall. God will help it at the beginning of the day." 
Psalms46:6 Nations are in disorder. Kingdoms fall. God speaks, and the people of the earth melt in fear." 
Psalms46:7 The Lord who rules over all is with us. The God of Jacob is like a fort to us. Selah 
Psalms46:8 Come and see what the Lord has done. See the places he has destroyed on the earth. 
Psalms46:9 He makes wars stop from one end of the earth to the other. He breaks every bow. He snaps every spear. He burns every shield with fire. 
Psalms46:10 He says, ""Be still, and know that I am God. I will be honored among the nations. I will be honored in the earth.""" 
Psalms46:11 The Lord who rules over all is with us. The God of Jacob is like a fort to us. Selah 
Psalms47:1 For the director of music. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. Clap your hands, all you nations. Shout to God with cries of joy." 
Psalms47:2 How wonderful is the Lord Most High! He is the great King over the whole earth. 
Psalms47:3 He brought nations under our control. He made them fall under us. 
Psalms47:4 He chose our land for us. The people of Jacob are proud of their land, and God loves them. Selah" 
Psalms47:5 God went up to his throne while his people were shouting with joy. The Lord went up while trumpets were playing. 
Psalms47:6 Sing praises to God. Sing praises. Sing praises to our King. Sing praises. 
Psalms47:7 God is the King of the whole earth. Sing a psalm of praise to him. 
Psalms47:8 God rules over the nations. He is seated on his holy throne. 
Psalms47:9 The nobles of the nations come together. They are now part of the people of the God of Abraham. The kings of the earth belong to God. He is greatly honored. 
Psalms48:1 A song. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. The Lord is great. He is really worthy of praise. Praise him in the city of our God, his holy mountain." 
Psalms48:2 Mount Zion is high and beautiful. It brings joy to everyone on earth. Mount Zion is like the highest parts of Mount Zaphon. It is the city of the Great King. 
Psalms48:3 God is there to keep it safe. He has shown himself to be like a fort to the city. 
Psalms48:4 Many kings joined forces. They entered Israel together. 
Psalms48:5 But when they saw Mount Zion, they were amazed. They ran away in terror." 
Psalms48:6 Trembling took hold of them. They felt pain like a woman giving birth to a baby. 
Psalms48:7 Lord, you destroyed them like ships of Tarshish that were torn apart by an east wind." 
Psalms48:8 What we heard we have also seen. We have seen it in the city of the Lord who rules over all. We have seen it in the city of our God. We have heard and seen that God makes her secure forever. Selah 
Psalms48:9 God, inside your temple we think about your faithful love." 
Psalms48:10 God, your fame reaches from one end of the earth to the other. In the same way, people praise you from one end of the earth to the other. You use your power to do what is right." 
Psalms48:11 Mount Zion is filled with joy. The villages of Judah are glad. That's because you judge fairly. 
Psalms48:12 Walk around Zion. Go all around it. Count its towers. 
Psalms48:13 Think carefully about its outer walls. Just look at how safe it is! Then you can tell its people that God keeps them safe. 
Psalms48:14 This God is our God for ever and ever. He will be our guide to the very end. 
Psalms49:1 For the director of music. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. Hear this, all you nations. Listen, all you who live in this world." 
Psalms49:2 Listen, ordinary and important people alike. Listen, those of you who are rich or poor." 
Psalms49:3 My mouth will speak wise words. What I say from my heart will give understanding. 
Psalms49:4 I will pay attention to a proverb. I will explain my riddle as I play the harp. 
Psalms49:5 Why should I be afraid when trouble comes? Why should I fear when sinners are all around me? They are the kind of people who want to take advantage of me. 
Psalms49:6 They trust in their wealth. They brag about how rich they are. 
Psalms49:7 No man can pay for the life of anyone else. No one can give God what that would cost. 
Psalms49:8 The price for a life is very high. No payment is ever enough. 
Psalms49:9 No one can pay enough to live forever and not rot in the grave. 
Psalms49:10 Everyone can see that even wise people die. Foolish and dumb people also pass away. All of them leave their wealth to others. 
Psalms49:11 Their graves will remain their houses forever. Their graves will be their homes for all time to come. Naming lands after themselves won't help either. 
Psalms49:12 Even though people may be very rich, they don't live on and on. They are like the animals. They die." 
Psalms49:13 That's what happens to those who trust in themselves. It also happens to their followers, who agree with what they say. Selah" 
Psalms49:14 Like sheep they will end up in the grave. Death will swallow them up. When honest people come to power, a new day will dawn. The bodies of sinners will waste away in the grave. They will end up far away from their princely houses." 
Psalms49:15 But God will save me from the grave. He will certainly take me to himself. Selah 
Psalms49:16 Don't be upset when someone becomes rich. Don't be troubled when he becomes more and more wealthy. 
Psalms49:17 He won't take anything with him when he dies. His riches won't go down to the grave with him. 
Psalms49:18 While he lived, he believed he was blessed. People praised him when things were going well for him." 
Psalms49:19 But he will die, like his people of long ago. He will never again see the light that leads to life." 
Psalms49:20 People who have riches but don't understand are like the animals. They die. 
Psalms50:1 A psalm of Asaph. The Mighty One, God, the Lord, speaks. He calls out to the earth from the sunrise in the east to the sunset in the west." 
Psalms50:2 From Zion, perfect and beautiful, God's glory shines out." 
Psalms50:3 Our God comes, and he won't be silent. A burning fire goes ahead of him. A terrible storm is all around him." 
Psalms50:4 He calls out to heaven and earth to be his witnesses. Then he judges his people. 
Psalms50:5 He says, ""Gather my holy people around me. They made a covenant with me by offering a sacrifice.""" 
Psalms50:6 The heavens announce that what God decides is right. He himself is the Judge. Selah 
Psalms50:7 God says, ""Listen, my people, and I will speak. Listen, Israel, and I will give witness against you. I am God, your God." 
Psalms50:8 I don't find fault with you because of your sacrifices. I don't find fault with the burnt offerings you always bring me. 
Psalms50:9 I don't need a bull from your barn. I don't need goats from your pens. 
Psalms50:10 Every animal in the forest already belongs to me. And so do the cattle on a thousand hills. 
Psalms50:11 I own every bird in the mountains. The creatures of the field belong to me. 
Psalms50:12 If I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you. The world belongs to me. And so does everything in it." 
Psalms50:13 Do I eat the meat of bulls? Do I drink the blood of goats? 
Psalms50:14 Bring me thank offerings, because I am your God. Carry out the promises you made to me, because I am the Most High God." 
Psalms50:15 Call out to me when trouble comes. I will save you. And you will honor me. 
Psalms50:16 But here is what God says to sinful people. What right do you have to speak the words of my laws? How dare you speak the words of my covenant! 
Psalms50:17 You hate my teaching. You turn your back on what I say. 
Psalms50:18 When you see a thief, you join him. You make friends with those who commit adultery." 
Psalms50:19 You use your mouth to speak evil. You use your tongue to spread lies. 
Psalms50:20 You always speak against your brother. You always tell lies about your own mother's son. 
Psalms50:21 You have done those things, and I kept silent. So you thought I was just like you. But now I'm going to correct you. I will bring charges against you." 
Psalms50:22 You who forget God, think about this. If you don't, I will tear you to pieces. No one will be able to save you." 
Psalms50:23 Anyone who sacrifices thank offerings to me honors me. He makes it possible for me to show him that I am the God who saves. 
Psalms51:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David when the prophet Nathan came to him after David had committed adultery with Bathsheba. God, show me your favor in keeping with your faithful love. Because your love is so tender and kind, wipe out my lawless acts." 
Psalms51:2 Wash away all of the evil things I've done. Make me pure from my sin. 
Psalms51:3 I know the lawless acts I've committed. I can't forget my sin. 
Psalms51:4 You are the one I've really sinned against. I've done what is evil in your sight. So you are right when you sentence me. You are fair when you judge me. 
Psalms51:5 I know I've been a sinner ever since I was born. I've been a sinner ever since my mother became pregnant with me. 
Psalms51:6 I know that you want truth to be in my heart. You teach me wisdom deep down inside me. 
Psalms51:7 Make me pure by sprinkling me with hyssop plant. Then I will be clean. Wash me. Then I will be whiter than snow. 
Psalms51:8 Let me hear you say, ""Your sins are forgiven."" That will bring me joy and gladness. Let the body you have broken be glad." 
Psalms51:9 Take away all of my sins. Wipe away all of the evil things I've done. 
Psalms51:10 God, create a pure heart in me. Give me a new spirit that is faithful to you." 
Psalms51:11 Don't send me away from you. Don't take your Holy Spirit away from me. 
Psalms51:12 Give me back the joy that comes from being saved by you. Give me a spirit that obeys you. That will keep me going. 
Psalms51:13 Then I will teach your ways to those who commit lawless acts. And sinners will turn back to you. 
Psalms51:14 You are the God who saves me. I have committed murder. Take away my guilt. Then my tongue will sing about how right you are no matter what you do. 
Psalms51:15 Lord, open my lips so that I can speak. Then my mouth will praise you." 
Psalms51:16 You don't take delight in sacrifice. If you did, I would bring it. You don't take pleasure in burnt offerings." 
Psalms51:17 The greatest sacrifice you want is a broken spirit. God, you will gladly accept a heart that is broken because of sadness over sin." 
Psalms51:18 May you be pleased to give Zion success. Build up the walls of Jerusalem. 
Psalms51:19 Then holy sacrifices will be offered in the right way. Whole burnt offerings will bring delight to you. And bulls will be offered on your altar. 
Psalms52:1 For the director of music. A maskil of David when Doeg, who was from Edom, had gone to Saul. Doeg had told Saul, ""David has gone to the house of Ahimelech."" You think you are such a big, strong man! Why do you brag about the evil things you've done? You are a dishonor to God all the time." 
Psalms52:2 You plan ways to destroy others. Your tongue is like a blade that has a sharp edge. You are always telling lies. 
Psalms52:3 You love evil instead of good. You would rather lie than tell the truth. Selah 
Psalms52:4 You love to harm others with your words, you liar!" 
Psalms52:5 So God will destroy you forever. He will grab hold of you and throw you out of your tent. He will remove you from this life. Selah 
Psalms52:6 Those who do what is right will see it and learn a lesson from it. They will laugh at you and say," 
Psalms52:7 Just look at this fellow! He didn't depend on God for his safety. He put his trust in all his wealth. He grew strong by destroying others! 
Psalms52:8 But I am like a healthy olive tree. My roots are deep in the house of God. I trust in your faithful love for ever and ever. 
Psalms52:9 I will praise you forever for what you have done. I will put my hope in you because you are good. I will praise you when I'm with your faithful people. 
Psalms53:1 For the director of music. For mahalath. A maskil of David. Foolish people say in their hearts, ""There is no God."" They do all kinds of horrible and evil things. No one does anything good." 
Psalms53:2 God looks down from heaven on all people. He wants to see if there are any who understand. He wants to see if there are any who trust in God. 
Psalms53:3 All of them have turned away. They have all become evil. No one does anything good, no one at all." 
Psalms53:4 Won't those who do evil ever learn? They eat up my people as if they were eating bread. They don't call out to God for help. 
Psalms53:5 Just look at them! They are filled with terror even when there is nothing to be afraid of! People of Israel, God will scatter the bones of those who attack you. You will put them to shame, because God hates them." 
Psalms53:6 How I pray that the One who saves Israel will come out of Zion! God will bless his people with great success again. So let the people of Jacob be filled with joy! Let Israel be glad! 
Psalms54:1 For the director of music. To be played on stringed instruments. A maskil of David when the men from Ziph had gone to Saul. They had said, ""Isn't David hiding among us?"" God, save me by your power. Set me free by your might." 
Psalms54:2 God, hear my prayer. Listen to what I'm saying." 
Psalms54:3 Strangers are attacking me. Mean people are trying to kill me. They don't care about God. Selah 
Psalms54:4 But I know that God helps me. The Lord is the one who keeps me going. 
Psalms54:5 My enemies tell lies about me. Do to them the evil things they planned against me. God, be faithful and destroy them." 
Psalms54:6 I will sacrifice an offering to you just because I choose to. Lord, I will praise your name because it is good." 
Psalms54:7 You have saved me from all of my troubles. With my own eyes I have seen you win the battle over my enemies. 
Psalms55:1 For the director of music. A maskil of David to be played on stringed instruments. God, listen to my prayer. Pay attention to my cry for help." 
Psalms55:2 Hear me and answer me. My thoughts upset me. I'm very troubled. 
Psalms55:3 I'm troubled by what my enemies say about me. I'm upset because sinful people stare at me. They cause me all kinds of suffering. When they are angry, they attack me with their words." 
Psalms55:4 I feel great pain deep down inside me. The terrors of death are crushing me. 
Psalms55:5 Fear and trembling have taken hold of me. Panic has overpowered me. 
Psalms55:6 I said, ""I wish I had wings like a dove! Then I would fly away and be at rest." 
Psalms55:7 I would escape to a place far away. I would stay out in the desert. Selah 
Psalms55:8 I would hurry to my place of safety. It would be far away from the winds and storms I'm facing. 
Psalms55:9 Lord, destroy the plans of sinners. Keep them from understanding one another. I see people destroying things and fighting in the city." 
Psalms55:10 Day and night they prowl around on top of its walls. The city is full of crime and trouble. 
Psalms55:11 Forces that destroy are at work inside it. Its streets are full of people who cheat others and take advantage of them. 
Psalms55:12 If an enemy were making fun of me, I could stand it. If he were looking down on me, I could hide from him." 
Psalms55:13 But it's you, someone like myself. It's my companion, my close friend." 
Psalms55:14 We used to enjoy good friendship as we walked with the crowds at the house of God. 
Psalms55:15 Let death take my enemies by surprise. Let them be buried alive, because their hearts and homes are full of evil." 
Psalms55:16 But I call out to God. And the Lord saves me. 
Psalms55:17 Evening, morning and noon I groan and cry out. And he hears my voice." 
Psalms55:18 Even though many enemies are fighting against me, he brings me safely back from the battle." 
Psalms55:19 God sits on his throne forever. He hears my prayers and makes my enemies suffer. Selah They never change their ways. They don't have any respect for God. 
Psalms55:20 My companion attacks his friends. He breaks his promise. 
Psalms55:21 His talk is as smooth as butter. But he has war in his heart. His words flow like olive oil. But they are like swords ready for battle. 
Psalms55:22 Turn your worries over to the Lord. He will keep you going. He will never let godly people fall. 
Psalms55:23 God, you will bring sinners down to the grave. Murderers and liars won't live out even half of their lives. But I trust in you." 
Psalms56:1 For the director of music. A miktam of David after the Philistines had captured him in Gath. To the tune of A Dove on Distant Oak Trees. God, show me your favor. Men are chasing me. All day long they keep attacking me." 
Psalms56:2 Those who tell lies about me chase me all day long. Many proud people are attacking me. 
Psalms56:3 When I'm afraid, I will trust in you." 
Psalms56:4 I trust in God. I praise his word. I trust in God. I will not be afraid. What can people do to me? 
Psalms56:5 All day long they twist my words. They are always making plans to harm me. 
Psalms56:6 They get together and hide. They watch my steps. They hope to kill me. 
Psalms56:7 Make sure you don't let them escape. God, bring down the nations in your anger." 
Psalms56:8 Write down my poem of sadness. List my tears on your scroll. Aren't you making a record of them? 
Psalms56:9 My enemies will turn back when I call out to you for help. Then I will know that God is on my side. 
Psalms56:10 I trust in God. I praise his word. I trust in the Lord. I praise his word. 
Psalms56:11 I trust in God. I will not be afraid. What can mere men do to me? 
Psalms56:12 God, I have made promises to you. I will bring my thank offerings to you." 
Psalms56:13 You have saved me from death. You have kept me from tripping and falling. Now I can live with you in the light that leads to life. 
Psalms57:1 For the director of music. A miktam of David when he had run away from Saul into the cave. To the tune of Do Not Destroy. Show me your favor, God. Show me your favor. I go to you for safety. I will find safety in the shadow of your wings. There I will stay until the danger is gone." 
Psalms57:2 I cry out to God Most High. I cry out to God, and he carries out his plan for me." 
Psalms57:3 He answers from heaven and saves me. He puts to shame those who chase me. Selah He shows me his love and his truth. 
Psalms57:4 Men who are like lions are all around me. I am lying down among hungry animals. Their teeth are like spears and arrows. Their tongues are like sharp swords. 
Psalms57:5 God, may you be honored above the heavens. Let your glory be over the whole earth." 
Psalms57:6 My enemies spread a net to catch me by the feet. I felt helpless. They dug a pit in my path. But they fell into it themselves. Selah 
Psalms57:7 God, my heart feels secure. My heart feels secure. I will sing and make music to you." 
Psalms57:8 My spirit, wake up! Harp and lyre, wake up! I want to sing and make music before the sun rises." 
Psalms57:9 Lord, I will praise you among the nations. I will sing about you among the people of the earth." 
Psalms57:10 Great is your love. It reaches to the heavens. Your truth reaches to the skies. 
Psalms57:11 God, may you be honored above the heavens. Let your glory be over the whole earth." 
Psalms58:1 For the director of music. A miktam of David to the tune of Do Not Destroy. Are you rulers really fair when you speak? Do you judge people honestly? 
Psalms58:2 No, in your hearts you plan to be unfair. With your hands you do terrible things on the earth." 
Psalms58:3 Even from birth those who are evil go down the wrong path. From the day they are born they go the wrong way and speak lies. 
Psalms58:4 Their words are like the poison of a snake. They are like the poison of a cobra that has covered up its ears. 
Psalms58:5 It won't listen to any tune of a snake charmer, even if the charmer really plays well." 
Psalms58:6 God, break the teeth in the mouths of those sinners! Lord, tear out the sharp teeth of those lions!" 
Psalms58:7 Let those people disappear like water that flows away. When they draw their bows, let their arrows be dull." 
Psalms58:8 Let them be like a slug that melts away as it moves along. Let them be like a baby that is born dead and never sees the sun. 
Psalms58:9 Evil people will be swept away quicker than a pot can feel the heat of thorns burning under it. And it doesn't matter if the thorns are green or dry. 
Psalms58:10 Godly people will be glad when those who have hurt them are paid back. They will wash their feet in the blood of those who do evil. 
Psalms58:11 Then people will say, ""The godly will get their reward. There really is a God who judges the earth.""" 
Psalms59:1 For the director of music. A miktam of David when Saul had sent men to watch David's house in order to kill him. To the tune of Do Not Destroy. God, save me from my enemies. Keep me safe from those who rise up against me." 
Psalms59:2 Save me from those who do evil. Save me from murderers. 
Psalms59:3 See how they hide and wait for me! Lord, angry people plan to harm me, even though I haven't hurt them in any way or sinned against them." 
Psalms59:4 I haven't done anything wrong to them. But they are ready to attack me. Rise up and help me! Look at what I'm up against! 
Psalms59:5 Lord God who rules over all, rise up. God of Israel, punish all of the nations. Don't show any mercy to those sinful people who have turned against me. Selah" 
Psalms59:6 My enemies are like a pack of barking dogs that come back to the city in the evening. They prowl around the city. 
Psalms59:7 Listen to what pours out of their mouths. The words from their lips are like swords. They think, ""Who can hear us?""" 
Psalms59:8 But you laugh at them, Lord. You make fun of all those nations." 
Psalms59:9 You give me strength. I look to you. God, you are like a fort to me." 
Psalms59:10 You are my loving God. God will march out in front of me. He will let me look down on those who tell lies about me. 
Psalms59:11 Lord, you are like a shield that keeps us safe. Don't kill my enemies all at once. If you do, my people will forget about it. Use your power to make my enemies wander around. Destroy them." 
Psalms59:12 They have sinned with their mouths. Their lips have spoken evil words. They have called down a curse on me and lied. Let them be caught in their pride. 
Psalms59:13 Burn them up in your anger. Burn them up until there isn't anything left of them. Then everyone from one end of the earth to the other will know that God rules over the people of Jacob. Selah 
Psalms59:14 My enemies are like a pack of barking dogs that come back into the city in the evening. They prowl around the city. 
Psalms59:15 They wander around looking for food. They groan if they don't find something that will satisfy them. 
Psalms59:16 But I will sing about your strength. In the morning I will sing about your love. You are like a fort to me. You keep me safe in times of trouble. 
Psalms60:1 God, you have turned away from us. You have attacked us. You have been angry. Now turn back to us!" 
Psalms60:2 You have shaken the land and torn it open. Fix its cracks, because it is falling apart." 
Psalms60:3 You have shown your people hard times. You have made us drink the wine of your anger. Now we can't even walk straight. 
Psalms60:4 But you lead into battle those who have respect for you. You give them a flag to wave against the enemy's weapons. Selah 
Psalms60:5 Save us. Help us with your powerful right hand, so that those you love may be saved." 
Psalms60:6 God has spoken from his temple. He has said, ""I will win the battle. Then I will divide up the land around Shechem. I will divide up the Valley of Succoth." 
Psalms60:7 Gilead belongs to me. So does the land of Manasseh. Ephraim is the strongest tribe. It is like a helmet for my head. Judah is the royal tribe. It is like a ruler's staff. 
Psalms60:8 Moab serves me like one who washes my feet. I toss my sandal on Edom to show that I own it. I shout to Philistia that I have won the battle. 
Psalms60:9 Who will bring me to the city that has high walls around it? Who will lead me to the land of Edom? 
Psalms60:10 God, isn't it you, even though you have now turned away from us? Isn't it you, even though you don't lead our armies into battle anymore?" 
Psalms60:11 Help us against our enemies. The help people give doesn't amount to anything. 
Psalms60:12 With your help we will win the battle. You will walk all over our enemies. 
Psalms61:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David to be played on stringed instruments. God, hear my cry for help. Listen to my prayer." 
Psalms61:2 From a place far away I call out to you. I call out as my heart gets weaker. Lead me to the safety of a rock that is high above me. 
Psalms61:3 You have always kept me safe from my enemies. You are like a strong tower to me. 
Psalms61:4 I long to live in your holy tent forever. There I find safety in the shadow of your wings. Selah 
Psalms61:5 God, you have heard my promises. You have given me what belongs to those who worship you." 
Psalms61:6 Add many days to the king's life. Let him live on and on for many years. 
Psalms61:7 May he always enjoy your blessing as he rules. Let your love and truth keep him safe. 
Psalms61:8 Then I will always sing praise to you. I will keep my promises day after day. 
Psalms62:1 For the director of music. For Jeduthun. A psalm of David. I find my rest in God alone. He is the One who saves me. 
Psalms62:2 He alone is my rock. He is the One who saves me. He is like a fort to me. I will always be secure. 
Psalms62:3 How long will you enemies attack me? Will all of you throw me down? I'm like a leaning wall. I'm like a fence that is about to fall. 
Psalms62:4 You only want to pull me down from my place of honor. You take delight in telling lies. You bless me with what you say. But in your hearts you call down curses on me. Selah 
Psalms62:5 I will find my rest in God alone. He is the One who gives me hope. 
Psalms62:6 He alone is my rock. He is the One who saves me. He is like a fort to me. I will always be secure. 
Psalms62:7 I depend on God to save me and to honor me. He is my mighty rock. He is my place of safety. 
Psalms62:8 Trust in him at all times, you people. Tell him all of your troubles. God is our place of safety. Selah" 
Psalms62:9 Ordinary people are only a breath. Important people are not what they seem to be. If they were weighed on a scale, they wouldn't amount to anything. Together they are only a breath." 
Psalms62:10 Don't trust in money you have taken from others. Don't be proud of things you have stolen. Even if your riches grow, don't put your trust in them." 
Psalms62:11 God, I have heard you say two things. One is that you, God, are strong." 
Psalms62:12 The other is that you, Lord, are loving. I'm sure you will reward each person in keeping with what he has done." 
Psalms63:1 A psalm of David when he was in the Desert of Judah. God, you are my God. I greatly long for you. With all my heart I thirst for you in this dry desert where there isn't any water." 
Psalms63:2 I have seen you in the sacred tent. There I have seen your power and your glory. 
Psalms63:3 Your love is better than life. I will bring glory to you with my lips. 
Psalms63:4 I will praise you as long as I live. I will lift up my hands when I pray to you. 
Psalms63:5 I will be as satisfied as if I had eaten the best food there is. I will sing praise to you with my mouth. 
Psalms63:6 As I lie on my bed I remember you. I think of you all night long. 
Psalms63:7 Because you have helped me, I sing in the shadow of your wings." 
Psalms63:8 I hold on to you. Your powerful right hand takes good care of me. 
Psalms63:9 Those who are trying to kill me will be destroyed. They will go down into the grave. 
Psalms63:10 They will be killed with swords. They will become food for wild dogs. 
Psalms63:11 But the king will be filled with joy because of what God has done. All those who take an oath in God's name will praise him. But the mouths of liars will be shut. 
Psalms64:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. God, hear me as I tell you my problem. Don't let my enemies kill me." 
Psalms64:2 Hide me from those who make evil plans against me. Hide me from that crowd of people who are doing evil. 
Psalms64:3 They make their tongues like sharp swords. They aim their words like deadly arrows. 
Psalms64:4 They shoot from their hiding places at people who aren't guilty of doing anything wrong. They shoot quickly. They aren't afraid of being caught. 
Psalms64:5 They help each other make evil plans. They talk about hiding their traps. They say, ""Who can see what we are doing?""" 
Psalms64:6 They make plans to do what is evil. They say, ""We have thought up a perfect plan!"" The hearts and minds of people are so clever!" 
Psalms64:7 But God will shoot my enemies with his arrows. He will suddenly strike them down. 
Psalms64:8 He will turn their own words against them. He will destroy them. All those who see them will shake their heads and look down on them. 
Psalms64:9 Everyone will respect God. They will tell about his works. They will think about what he has done. 
Psalms64:10 Let godly people be full of joy because of what the Lord has done. Let them go to him for safety. Let all those whose hearts are honest praise him. 
Psalms65:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. A song. God, we look forward to praising you in Zion. We will keep our promises to you." 
Psalms65:2 All people will come to you, because you hear and answer prayer." 
Psalms65:3 When our sins became too much for us, you forgave our lawless acts." 
Psalms65:4 Blessed are those you choose and bring near to worship you. You bring us into the courtyards of your holy temple. There in your house we are filled with all kinds of good things. 
Psalms65:5 God our Savior, you answer us by doing wonderful things. You save us by your power. People all over the world and beyond the farthest oceans put their hope in you." 
Psalms65:6 You formed the mountains by your power. You showed how strong you are. 
Psalms65:7 You calmed the oceans and their roaring waves. You calmed the angry words and actions of the nations. 
Psalms65:8 Those who live far away are amazed at the miracles you have done. What you do makes people from one end of the earth to the other sing for joy. 
Psalms65:9 You take care of the land and water it. You make it very rich. You fill your streams with water. You provide the people with grain. That's how you prepare the land. 
Psalms65:10 You water its rows. You smooth out its bumps. You soften it with showers. And you bless its crops. 
Psalms65:11 You bring the year to a close with huge crops. You provide more than enough food. 
Psalms65:12 The grass grows thick even in the desert. The hills are dressed with gladness. 
Psalms65:13 The meadows are covered with flocks and herds. The valleys are dressed with grain. They sing and shout with joy. 
Psalms66:1 For the director of music. A song. A psalm. Shout to God with joy, everyone on earth!" 
Psalms66:2 Sing about the glory of his name! Give him glorious praise! 
Psalms66:3 Say to God, ""What wonderful things you do! Your power is so great that your enemies bow down to you in fear." 
Psalms66:4 Everyone on earth bows down to you. They sing praise to you. They sing praise to your name. Selah 
Psalms66:5 Come and see what God has done. See what wonderful things he has done for his people! 
Psalms66:6 He turned the Red Sea into dry land. The people of Israel passed through the waters on foot. Come, let us be full of joy because of what he did." 
Psalms66:7 He rules by his power forever. His eyes watch the nations. Let no one who refuses to obey him rise up against him. Selah 
Psalms66:8 Praise our God, you nations. Let the sound of the praise you give him be heard." 
Psalms66:9 He has kept us alive. He has kept our feet from slipping. 
Psalms66:10 God, you have put us to the test. You put us through fire to make us like silver." 
Psalms66:11 You put us in prison. You placed heavy loads on our backs. 
Psalms66:12 You let people run over our heads. We went through fire and water. But you brought us to a place where we have everything we need. 
Psalms66:13 I will come to your temple with burnt offerings. I will keep my promises to you. 
Psalms66:14 I made them with my lips. My mouth spoke them when I was in trouble. 
Psalms66:15 I will sacrifice fat animals to you as burnt offerings. I will offer rams, bulls and goats to you. Selah" 
Psalms66:16 Come and listen, all of you who have respect for God. Let me tell you what he has done for me." 
Psalms66:17 I cried out to him with my mouth. I praised him with my tongue. 
Psalms66:18 If I had enjoyed having sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened." 
Psalms66:19 But God has listened. He has heard my prayer. 
Psalms66:20 Give praise to God. He has accepted my prayer. He has not held his love back from me. 
Psalms67:1 For the director of music. A psalm. A song to be played on stringed instruments. God, show us your favor. Bless us. May you smile on us with your favor. Selah" 
Psalms67:2 Then your ways will be known on earth. All nations will see that you have the power to save. 
Psalms67:3 God, may the nations praise you. May all of the people on earth praise you." 
Psalms67:4 May the nations be glad and sing with joy. You rule the people of the earth fairly. You guide the nations of the earth. Selah 
Psalms67:5 God, may the nations praise you. May all of the people on earth praise you." 
Psalms67:6 Then the land will produce its crops. God, our God, will bless us." 
Psalms67:7 God will bless us. People from one end of the earth to the other will have respect for him. 
Psalms68:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. A song. May God rise up and scatter his enemies. May they turn and run away from him. 
Psalms68:2 As wind blows smoke away, so may God blow them away. As fire melts wax, so may he destroy sinful people." 
Psalms68:3 But may those who do what is right be glad and filled with joy when they are with him. May they be happy and joyful. 
Psalms68:4 Sing to God. Sing praise to his name. Lift up a song to the One who rides on the clouds. His name is the Lord. Be glad when you are with him. 
Psalms68:5 God is in his holy temple. He is a father to those whose fathers have died. He takes care of women whose husbands have died. 
Psalms68:6 God gives lonely people a family. He sets prisoners free, and they go out singing. But those who refuse to obey him live in a land that is baked by the sun." 
Psalms68:7 God, you led your people out. You marched through a dry and empty land. Selah" 
Psalms68:8 The ground shook when you, the God of Sinai, appeared. The heavens poured down rain when you, the God of Israel, appeared." 
Psalms68:9 God, you gave us plenty of rain. You renewed your worn-out land." 
Psalms68:10 God, your people settled in it. From all of your riches, you provided for those who were poor." 
Psalms68:11 The Lord gave a message. Many people made it widely known. 
Psalms68:12 They said, ""Kings and armies are running away. In the camps, Israel's soldiers are dividing up the things they have taken from their enemies." 
Psalms68:13 Even while the soldiers sleep near the campfires, God wins the battle for them. He gives the enemy's silver and gold to Israel, his dove.""" 
Psalms68:14 The Mighty One has scattered the kings around the land. It was like snow falling on Mount Zalmon. 
Psalms68:15 The mountains of Bashan are majestic. The mountains of Bashan are very rocky. 
Psalms68:16 You rocky mountains are jealous of Mount Zion, aren't you? That's where God chooses to rule. That's where the Lord himself will live forever." 
Psalms68:17 God has come with tens of thousands of his chariots. He has come with thousands and thousands of them. The Lord has come from Mount Sinai. He has entered his holy place. 
Psalms68:18 When he went up to his place on high, he led a line of prisoners. He received gifts from people, even from those who refused to obey him. The Lord God went up to live on Mount Zion." 
Psalms68:19 Give praise to the Lord. Give praise to God our Savior. He carries our heavy loads day after day. Selah 
Psalms68:20 Our God is a God who saves. He is the King and the Lord. He saves us from death. 
Psalms68:21 God will certainly smash the heads of his enemies. He will break the hairy heads of those who keep on sinning. 
Psalms68:22 The Lord says, ""I will bring your enemies from Bashan. I will bring them up from the bottom of the sea." 
Psalms68:23 Then your feet can wade in their blood. The tongues of your dogs can lick up all the blood they want. 
Psalms68:24 God, those who worship you come marching into view. My God and King, those who follow you have entered the sacred tent." 
Psalms68:25 The singers are walking in front. Next come those who play the music. Young women playing tambourines are with them. 
Psalms68:26 The leaders sing, ""Praise God among all those who worship him. Praise the Lord in the community of Israel.""" 
Psalms68:27 The little tribe of Benjamin leads the worshipers. Next comes the great crowd of Judah's princes. Then come the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali. 
Psalms68:28 God, show us your power. Show us your strength. God, do as you have done before." 
Psalms68:29 Do it from your temple at Jerusalem, where kings will bring you gifts." 
Psalms68:30 Give a strong warning to Egypt, that beast among the tall grass. Warn the leaders of the nations, who are like bulls among the calves. May they bow down before you with gifts of silver. Scatter the nations who like to make war." 
Psalms68:31 Messengers will come from Egypt. The people of Cush will be quick to bring gifts to you. 
Psalms68:32 Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth. Sing praise to the Lord. Selah" 
Psalms68:33 He rides in the age-old skies above. He thunders with his mighty voice. 
Psalms68:34 Tell how powerful God is. He rules as king over Israel. The skies show how powerful he is. 
Psalms68:35 How wonderful is God in his holy place! The God of Israel gives power and strength to his people. Give praise to God! 
Psalms69:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David to the tune of Lilies. God, save me. My troubles are like a flood. I'm up to my neck in them." 
Psalms69:2 I'm sinking in deep mud. I have no firm place to stand. I am out in deep water. The waves roll over me. 
Psalms69:3 I'm worn out from calling for help. My throat is very dry. My eyes grow tired looking for my God. 
Psalms69:4 Those who hate me without any reason are more than the hairs on my head. Many people who don't have any reason to be my enemies are trying to destroy me. They force me to give back what I didn't steal. 
Psalms69:5 God, you know how foolish I've been. My guilt is not hidden from you." 
Psalms69:6 Lord, you are the Lord who rules over all. May those who put their hope in you not be dishonored because of me. You are the God of Israel. May those who worship you not be put to shame because of me." 
Psalms69:7 Because of you, people laugh at me. My face is covered with shame." 
Psalms69:8 I'm a stranger to my brothers. I'm an outsider to my own mother's sons. 
Psalms69:9 My great love for your house destroys me. Those who make fun of you make fun of me also. 
Psalms69:10 When I sob and go without eating, they laugh at me." 
Psalms69:11 When I put on black clothes to show how sad I am, people make jokes about me." 
Psalms69:12 Those who gather in public places make fun of me. Those who get drunk make up songs about me. 
Psalms69:13 But Lord, I pray to you. May this be the time you show me your favor. God, answer me because you love me so much. Save me, as you always do." 
Psalms69:14 Save me from the trouble I'm in. It's like slippery mud. Don't let me sink in it. Save me from those who hate me. Save me from the deep water I'm in. 
Psalms69:15 Don't let the floods cover me. Don't let the deep water swallow me up. Don't let the grave close its mouth over me. 
Psalms69:16 Lord, answer me because your love is so good. Turn to me because you are so kind." 
Psalms69:17 Don't turn your face away from me. Answer me quickly. I'm in trouble. 
Psalms69:18 Come near and save me. Set me free from my enemies. 
Psalms69:19 You know how they make fun of me. They dishonor me and put me to shame. You know all about my enemies. 
Psalms69:20 They have broken my heart by saying evil things about me. It has left me helpless. I looked for pity, but I didn't find any. I looked for someone to comfort me, but I didn't find anyone." 
Psalms69:21 They put bitter spices in my food. They gave me vinegar when I was thirsty. 
Psalms69:22 Let their feast be a trap and a snare. Let my enemies get what's coming to them. 
Psalms69:23 Let their eyes grow weak so they can't see. Let their backs be bent forever. 
Psalms69:24 Pour out your anger on them. Let them feel its burning heat. 
Psalms69:25 May their homes be deserted. May no one live in their tents. 
Psalms69:26 They attack those you have wounded. They talk about the pain of those you have hurt. 
Psalms69:27 Charge them with one crime after another. Don't save them. 
Psalms69:28 May their names be erased from the Book of Life. Don't include them in the list of those who do right. 
Psalms69:29 I'm in pain. I'm in deep trouble. God, save me and keep me safe." 
Psalms69:30 I will praise God's name by singing to him. I will bring him glory by giving him thanks. 
Psalms69:31 That will please the Lord more than offering him an ox. It will please him more than offering him a bull with its horns and hoofs. 
Psalms69:32 Poor people will see it and be glad. The hearts of those who worship God will be strengthened. 
Psalms69:33 The Lord hears those who are in need. He doesn't forget his people in prison. 
Psalms69:34 Let heaven and earth praise him. Let the oceans and everything that moves in them praise him. 
Psalms69:35 God will save Zion. He will build the cities of Judah again. Then people will live in them and own the land. 
Psalms69:36 The children of those who serve God will receive it. Those who love him will live there. 
Psalms70:1 For the director of music. A prayer of David. God, hurry and save me. Lord, come quickly and help me." 
Psalms70:2 Let those who are trying to kill me be put to shame. Let them not be honored. Let all those who want to destroy me be turned back in shame. 
Psalms70:3 Some people make fun of me. Let them be turned back when their plans fail. 
Psalms70:4 But let all those who look to you be joyful and glad because of what you have done. Let those who love you because you save them always say, ""May God be honored!""" 
Psalms70:5 But I am poor and needy. God, come quickly to me. You are the One who helps me and saves me. Lord, please don't wait any longer." 
Psalms71:1 Lord, I have gone to you for safety. Let me never be put to shame." 
Psalms71:2 You do what is right. Save me and help me. Pay attention to me and save me. 
Psalms71:3 Be my rock of safety that I can always go to. Give the command to save me. You are my rock and my fort. 
Psalms71:4 My God, save me from the power of sinners. Save me from the hands of those who are mean and evil." 
Psalms71:5 You are the King and the Lord. You have always been my hope. I have trusted in you ever since I was young. 
Psalms71:6 From the time I was born I have depended on you. You brought me out of my mother's body. I will praise you forever. 
Psalms71:7 To many people I am an example of how much you care. You are strong. You are my place of safety. 
Psalms71:8 My mouth is filled with praise for you. All day long I will talk about your glory. 
Psalms71:9 Don't push me away when I'm old. Don't desert me when my strength is gone. 
Psalms71:10 My enemies speak against me. Those who want to kill me get together and make evil plans. 
Psalms71:11 They say, ""God has deserted him. Go after him and grab him. No one will save him.""" 
Psalms71:12 God, don't stay so far away from me. My God, come quickly and help me." 
Psalms71:13 May those who bring charges against me die in shame. May those who want to harm me be covered with shame and dishonor. 
Psalms71:14 But I will always have hope. I will praise you more and more. 
Psalms71:15 I will say that what you have done is right. All day long I will talk about how you have saved your people. It is more than I can understand. 
Psalms71:16 Lord and King, I will come and announce your mighty acts. I will announce that you alone do what is right." 
Psalms71:17 God, ever since I was young you have taught me about what you have done. To this very day I tell about your wonderful acts." 
Psalms71:18 God, don't leave me even when I'm old and have gray hair. Let me live to tell my children about your power. Let me tell all of them about your mighty acts." 
Psalms71:19 God, your saving acts reach to the skies. You have done great things. God, who is like you?" 
Psalms71:20 You have sent many bitter troubles my way. But you will give me new life. Even if I'm almost in the grave, you will bring me back." 
Psalms71:21 You will honor me more and more. You will comfort me once again. 
Psalms71:22 My God, I will use the harp to praise you because you are always faithful. Holy One of Israel, I will use the lyre to sing praise to you." 
Psalms71:23 My lips will shout with joy when I sing praise to you. You have saved me. 
Psalms71:24 All day long my tongue will say that you have done what is right. Those who wanted to harm me have been put to shame. They have not been honored. 
Psalms72:1 A psalm of Solomon. God, give the king the ability to judge fairly. He is your royal son. Help him to do what is right." 
Psalms72:2 Then he will rule your people in the right way. He will be fair to those among your people who are hurting. 
Psalms72:3 The mountains and the hills will produce rich crops, because the people will do what is right." 
Psalms72:4 The king will stand up for those who are hurting. He will save the children of those who are in need. He will crush those who beat others down. 
Psalms72:5 He will rule as long as the sun shines and the moon gives its light. He will rule for all time to come. 
Psalms72:6 He will be like rain falling on the fields. He will be like showers watering the earth. 
Psalms72:7 Godly people will do well as long as he rules. They will have more than they need as long as the moon lasts. 
Psalms72:8 He will rule from ocean to ocean. His kingdom will reach from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth. 
Psalms72:9 The desert tribes will bow down to him. His enemies will lick the dust. 
Psalms72:10 The kings of Tarshish and of places far away will bring him gifts. The kings of Sheba and Seba will give him presents. 
Psalms72:11 All kings will bow down to him. All nations will serve him. 
Psalms72:12 People who are in need will cry out, and he will save them. He will save those who are hurting. They don't have anyone else who can help them." 
Psalms72:13 He will take pity on those who are weak and in need. He will save them from death. 
Psalms72:14 He will save them from people who beat others down. He will save them from people who do mean things to them. Their lives are very special to him. 
Psalms72:15 May he live a long time! May gold from Sheba be given to him. May people always pray for him. May they ask the Lord to bless him all day long. 
Psalms72:16 Let there be plenty of grain everywhere in the land. May it sway in the wind on the tops of the hills. Let crops grow well, like those in Lebanon. Let them grow like the grass of the field." 
Psalms72:17 May the king's name be remembered forever. May his fame last as long as the sun shines. All nations will be blessed because of him. They will call him blessed. 
Psalms72:18 Give praise to the Lord God, the God of Israel. Only he can do wonderful things." 
Psalms72:19 Give praise to his glorious name forever. May his glory fill the whole earth. Amen and Amen. 
Psalms72:20 The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, end here." 
Psalms73:1 BOOK III God is truly good to Israel. He is good to those who have pure hearts. 
Psalms73:2 But my feet had almost slipped. I had almost tripped and fallen. 
Psalms73:3 I saw that proud and sinful people were doing well. And I began to long for what they had. 
Psalms73:4 They don't have any troubles. Their bodies are healthy and strong. 
Psalms73:5 They don't have the problems others have. They don't suffer as other people do. 
Psalms73:6 Their pride is like a necklace. They put on meanness as if it were their clothes. 
Psalms73:7 Many sins come out of their hard and stubborn hearts. There is no limit to their proud and evil thoughts. 
Psalms73:8 They laugh at others and speak words of hatred. They are proud. They warn others about the harm they can do to them. 
Psalms73:9 They brag as if they owned heaven itself. They talk as if they controlled the earth. 
Psalms73:10 So people listen to them. They lap up their words like water. 
Psalms73:11 They say, ""How can God know what we're doing? Does the Most High God really know that much?""" 
Psalms73:12 Here is what sinful people are like. They don't have a care in the world. They keep getting richer and richer. 
Psalms73:13 It seems as if I have kept my heart pure without any reason. It didn't do me any good to wash my hands to show that I wasn't guilty of doing anything wrong. 
Psalms73:14 Day after day I've been in pain. God has punished me every morning. 
Psalms73:15 What if I had said, ""I will speak as evil people do""? Then I wouldn't have been faithful to God's children." 
Psalms73:16 I tried to understand it all. But it was more than I could handle. 
Psalms73:17 It troubled me until I entered God's temple. Then I understood what will happen to bad people in the end. 
Psalms73:18 God, I'm sure you will make them slip and fall. You will throw them down and destroy them." 
Psalms73:19 It will happen very suddenly. A terrible death will take them away completely. 
Psalms73:20 A dream goes away when a person wakes up. Lord, it will be like that when you rise up. It will be as if those people were only a dream." 
Psalms73:21 At one time my heart was sad and my spirit was bitter. 
Psalms73:22 I didn't have any sense. I didn't know anything. I acted like a wild animal toward you. 
Psalms73:23 But I am always with you. You hold me by my right hand. 
Psalms73:24 You give me wise advice to guide me. And when I die, you will take me away into the glory of heaven." 
Psalms73:25 I don't have anyone in heaven but you. I don't want anything on earth besides you. 
Psalms73:26 My body and my heart may grow weak. God, you give strength to my heart. You are everything I will ever need." 
Psalms73:27 Those who don't want anything to do with you will die. You destroy all those who aren't faithful to you. 
Psalms73:28 But I am close to you. And that's good. Lord and King, I have made you my place of safety. I will talk about everything you have done." 
Psalms74:1 A maskil of Asaph. God, why have you turned your back on us for so long? Why does your anger burn against us? We are your very own sheep." 
Psalms74:2 Remember that you chose us to be your own people a long time ago. Remember that you set us free from slavery to be your very own tribe. Remember Mount Zion, where you lived." 
Psalms74:3 Walk through this place that has been torn down beyond repair. See how completely your enemies have destroyed the temple! 
Psalms74:4 In the place where you used to meet with us, your enemies have shouted, ""We've won the battle!"" They have set up their flags to show they have beaten us." 
Psalms74:5 They acted like people cutting down a forest with axes. 
Psalms74:6 They smashed all of the beautiful wooden walls with their axes and hatchets. 
Psalms74:7 They burned your temple to the ground. They polluted the place where your Name is. 
Psalms74:8 They had said in their hearts, ""We will crush them completely!"" They burned every place where you were worshiped in the land." 
Psalms74:9 You don't give us miraculous signs anymore. There aren't any prophets left. None of us knows how long that will last. 
Psalms74:10 God, how long will your enemies make fun of you? Will they attack you with their words forever?" 
Psalms74:11 Why don't you help us? Why do you hold back your powerful right hand? Use your strong arms to destroy your enemies! 
Psalms74:12 God, you have been my king for a long time. The whole earth has seen you save us over and over again." 
Psalms74:13 You parted the Red Sea by your power. You broke the heads of that sea monster in Egypt. 
Psalms74:14 You crushed the heads of the sea monster Leviathan. You fed it to the creatures of the desert. 
Psalms74:15 You opened up streams and springs. You dried up rivers that flow all year long. 
Psalms74:16 You rule over the day and the night. You created the sun and the moon. 
Psalms74:17 You decided where the borders of the earth would be. You made both summer and winter. 
Psalms74:18 Lord, remember how your enemies have made fun of you. Remember how foolish people have attacked you with their words." 
Psalms74:19 Don't hand Israel, your dove, over to those wild animals. Don't forget your suffering people forever." 
Psalms74:20 Honor the covenant you made with us. Horrible things are happening in every dark corner of the land. 
Psalms74:21 Don't let your suffering people be put to shame. May those who are poor and needy praise you. 
Psalms74:22 God, rise up. Stand up for your cause. Remember how foolish people make fun of you all day long." 
Psalms74:23 Pay close attention to the shouts of your enemies. The trouble they cause never stops. 
Psalms75:1 For the director of music. A psalm of Asaph. A song to the tune of Do Not Destroy. God, we give thanks to you. We give thanks because your Name is near. People talk about the wonderful things you have done." 
Psalms75:2 You say, ""I choose the appointed time to judge people. And I judge them fairly." 
Psalms75:3 When the earth and all of its people tremble, I keep everything from falling to pieces. Selah" 
Psalms75:4 To the proud I say, 'Don't brag anymore.' To sinners I say, 'Don't show off your power." 
Psalms75:5 Don't show it off against me. Don't speak with your noses in the air.' 
Psalms75:6 No one from east or west or north or south can act as judge. 
Psalms75:7 God is the One who judges. He says to one person, ""You are guilty."" To another he says, ""You are not guilty.""" 
Psalms75:8 In the hand of the Lord is a cup. It is full of wine mixed with spices. It is the wine of his anger. He pours it out. All of the evil people on earth drink it down to the very last drop. 
Psalms75:9 I will speak about this forever. I will sing praise to the God of Jacob. 
Psalms75:10 God will destroy the power of all sinful people. But he will make godly people more powerful. 
Psalms76:1 For the director of music. A psalm of Asaph. A song to be played on stringed instruments. In the land of Judah, God is known. His name is great in Israel." 
Psalms76:2 His tent is in Jerusalem. The place where he lives is on Mount Zion. 
Psalms76:3 There he broke the deadly arrows of his enemies. He broke their shields and swords. He broke their weapons of war. Selah 
Psalms76:4 God, you shine like a very bright light. You are more majestic than mountains full of wild animals." 
Psalms76:5 Brave soldiers have been robbed of everything they had. Now they lie there, sleeping in death. Not one of them can even lift his hands." 
Psalms76:6 God of Jacob, at your command both horse and chariot lie still." 
Psalms76:7 People should have respect for you alone. Who can stand in front of you when you are angry? 
Psalms76:8 From heaven you handed down your sentence. The land was afraid and became quiet. 
Psalms76:9 God, that happened when you rose up to judge. It happened when you came to save all of your suffering people in the land. Selah" 
Psalms76:10 Your anger against sinners brings you praise. Those who live through your anger gather to worship you. 
Psalms76:11 Make promises to the Lord your God and keep them. Let all of the neighboring nations bring gifts to the One who should be respected. 
Psalms76:12 He breaks the proud spirit of rulers. The kings of the earth have respect for him. 
Psalms77:1 For the director of music. For Jeduthun. A psalm of Asaph. I cried out to God for help. I cried out to God to hear me. 
Psalms77:2 When I was in trouble, I looked to the Lord. During the night I lifted up my hands in prayer. But I refused to be comforted." 
Psalms77:3 God, I remembered you, and I groaned. I thought about you, and I became weak. Selah" 
Psalms77:4 You kept me from going to sleep. I was so troubled I couldn't speak. 
Psalms77:5 I thought about days gone by. I thought about the years of long ago. 
Psalms77:6 I remembered how I used to sing praise to you in the night. I thought about it, and here is what I asked myself." 
Psalms77:7 Will the Lord turn away from us forever? Won't he ever show us his kindness again? 
Psalms77:8 Has his faithful love disappeared forever? Has his promise failed for all time? 
Psalms77:9 Has God forgotten to show us his favor? Has he held back his tender love because he was angry? Selah 
Psalms77:10 Then I thought, ""Here is what I will make my appeal to. For many years the Most High God showed how powerful his right hand is.""" 
Psalms77:11 Lord, I will remember what you did. Yes, I will remember your miracles of long ago." 
Psalms77:12 I will spend time thinking about everything you have done. I will consider all of your mighty acts. 
Psalms77:13 God, everything you do is holy. What god is so great as our God?" 
Psalms77:14 You are the God who does miracles. You show your power among the nations. 
Psalms77:15 With your mighty arm you set your people free. You set the children of Jacob and Joseph free. Selah 
Psalms77:16 God, the water of the Red Sea saw you. It saw you and boiled up. The deepest waters were stirred up." 
Psalms77:17 The clouds poured down rain. The skies rumbled with thunder. Lightning flashed back and forth like arrows. 
Psalms77:18 Your thunder was heard in the windstorm. Your lightning lit up the world. The earth trembled and shook. 
Psalms77:19 Your path led through the Red Sea. You walked through the mighty waters. But your footprints were not seen. 
Psalms77:20 You led your people like a flock. You led them by the hands of Moses and Aaron. 
Psalms78:1 A maskil of Asaph. My people, listen to my teaching. Pay attention to what I say." 
Psalms78:2 I will open my mouth and tell stories. I will speak about things that were hidden. They happened a long time ago. 
Psalms78:3 We have heard about them and we know them. Our people who lived before us have told us about them. 
Psalms78:4 We won't hide them from our children. We will tell them to those who live after us. We will tell them about what the Lord has done that is worthy of praise. We will talk about his power and the wonderful things he has done. 
Psalms78:5 He gave laws to the people of Jacob. He gave Israel their law. He commanded our people who lived before us to teach his laws to their children. 
Psalms78:6 Then those born later would know his laws. Even their children yet to come would know them. And they in turn would tell their children. 
Psalms78:7 Then they would put their trust in God. They would not forget what he had done. They would obey his commands. 
Psalms78:8 They would not be like their people who lived before them. Those people were stubborn. They refused to obey God. Their hearts were not true to him. Their spirits were not faithful to him. 
Psalms78:9 The soldiers of Ephraim were armed with bows. But they ran away on the day of battle. 
Psalms78:10 They didn't keep the covenant God had made with them. They refused to live by his law. 
Psalms78:11 They forgot what he had done. They didn't remember the wonders he had shown them. 
Psalms78:12 He did miracles right in front of our people who lived long ago. At that time they were living in the land of Egypt, in the area of Zoan." 
Psalms78:13 God parted the Red Sea and led them through it. He made the water stand up like a wall. 
Psalms78:14 He guided them with the cloud during the day. He led them with the light of a fire all night long. 
Psalms78:15 He broke the rocks open in the desert. He gave them as much water as there is in the oceans. 
Psalms78:16 He brought streams out of a rocky cliff. He made water flow down like rivers. 
Psalms78:17 But they continued to sin against him. In the desert they refused to obey the Most High God. 
Psalms78:18 They were stubborn and put God to the test. They ordered him to give them the food they longed for. 
Psalms78:19 They spoke against God. They said, ""Can God put food on a table in the desert?" 
Psalms78:20 When he struck the rock, streams of water poured out. Huge amounts of water flowed down. But can he also give us food? Can he supply meat for his people?""" 
Psalms78:21 When the Lord heard what they said, he was very angry. His anger broke out like fire against the people of Jacob. He became very angry with Israel." 
Psalms78:22 That was because they didn't believe in God. They didn't trust in his power to save them. 
Psalms78:23 But he gave a command to the skies above. He opened the doors of the heavens. 
Psalms78:24 He rained down manna for the people to eat. He gave them the grain of heaven. 
Psalms78:25 Mere men ate the bread of angels. He sent them all of the food they could eat. 
Psalms78:26 He made the east wind blow from the heavens. By his power he caused the south wind to blow. 
Psalms78:27 He rained meat down on them like dust. He sent them birds like sand on the seashore. 
Psalms78:28 He made the birds come down inside their camp. The birds fell all around their tents. 
Psalms78:29 People ate until they had more than enough. He gave them what they had longed for. 
Psalms78:30 But even before they had finished eating, God acted. He did it while the food was still in their mouths." 
Psalms78:31 His anger rose up against them. He put to death the strongest among them. He struck down Israel's young men. 
Psalms78:32 But even after all that, they kept on sinning. Even after they had seen the miracles he did, they still didn't believe." 
Psalms78:33 So he brought their days to an end like a puff of smoke. He ended their years with terror. 
Psalms78:34 Every time God killed some of them, the others would look to him. They gladly turned back to him again." 
Psalms78:35 They remembered that God was their Rock. They remembered that God Most High had set them free. 
Psalms78:36 But they didn't mean it when they praised him. They lied to him when they spoke. 
Psalms78:37 Their hearts were not true to him. They weren't faithful to the covenant he had made with them. 
Psalms78:38 But he was full of tender love. He forgave their sins and didn't destroy his people. Time after time he held back his anger. He didn't let all of his burning anger blaze out. 
Psalms78:39 He remembered that they were only human. He remembered they were only a breath of air that drifts by and doesn't return. 
Psalms78:40 How often they refused to obey him in the desert! How often they caused him sorrow in that dry and empty land! 
Psalms78:41 Again and again they put God to the test. They made the Holy One of Israel sad and angry. 
Psalms78:42 They didn't remember his power. They forgot the day he set them free from those who had beaten them down. 
Psalms78:43 They forgot how he had shown them his miraculous signs in Egypt. They forgot his miracles in the area of Zoan. 
Psalms78:44 He turned the rivers of Egypt into blood. The people of Egypt couldn't drink water from their streams. 
Psalms78:45 He sent large numbers of flies that bit them. He sent frogs that destroyed their land. 
Psalms78:46 He gave their crops to the grasshoppers. He gave their food to the locusts. 
Psalms78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail. He destroyed their fig trees with sleet. 
Psalms78:48 He killed their cattle with hail. Their livestock were struck by lightning. 
Psalms78:49 He brought great trouble on Egypt by pouring out his blazing anger. In his hot anger he sent destroying angels against them. 
Psalms78:50 God prepared a path for his anger. He didn't spare their lives. He gave them over to the plague. 
Psalms78:51 He killed the oldest son of each family in Egypt. He struck down the oldest son in every house in the land of Ham. 
Psalms78:52 But he brought his people out like a flock. He led them like sheep through the desert. 
Psalms78:53 He guided them safely, and they weren't afraid. But the Red Sea swallowed up their enemies." 
Psalms78:54 He brought his people to the border of his holy land. He led them to the central hill country he had taken by his power. 
Psalms78:55 He drove the nations out to make room for his people. He gave to each family a piece of land to pass on to their children. He settled the tribes of Israel in their homes. 
Psalms78:56 But they put God to the test. They refused to obey the Most High God. They didn't keep his laws. 
Psalms78:57 Like their people who lived before them, they turned away from him and were not faithful. They were like a bow that doesn't shoot straight. They couldn't be trusted." 
Psalms78:58 They made God angry by going to their high places. They made him jealous by worshiping the statues of their gods. 
Psalms78:59 When God saw what the people were doing, he was very angry. He turned away from them completely." 
Psalms78:60 He deserted the holy tent at Shiloh. He left the tent he had set up among his people. 
Psalms78:61 He allowed the ark to be captured. Into the hands of his enemies he sent the ark where his glory rested. 
Psalms78:62 He let his people be killed with swords. He was very angry with them. 
Psalms78:63 Fire destroyed their young men. Their young women had no one to get married to. 
Psalms78:64 Their priests were killed with swords. Their widows weren't able to cry. 
Psalms78:65 Then the Lord woke up as if he had been sleeping. He was like a man waking up from the deep sleep caused by wine. 
Psalms78:66 He drove his enemies back. He put them to shame that will last forever. 
Psalms78:67 He turned his back on the tents of the people of Joseph. He didn't choose to live in the tribe of Ephraim. 
Psalms78:68 Instead, he chose to live in the tribe of Judah. He chose Mount Zion, which he loved." 
Psalms78:69 There he built his holy place as secure as the heavens. He built it to last forever, like the earth." 
Psalms78:70 He chose his servant David. He took him from the sheep pens. 
Psalms78:71 He brought him from tending sheep to be the shepherd of his people Jacob. He made him the shepherd of Israel, his special people." 
Psalms78:72 David cared for them with a faithful and honest heart. With skilled hands he led them. 
Psalms79:1 A psalm of Asaph. God, an army from the nations has attacked your land. They have polluted your holy temple. They have completely destroyed Jerusalem." 
Psalms79:2 They have given the dead bodies of your people as food to the birds of the air. They have given the bodies of your faithful people to the animals of the earth. 
Psalms79:3 They have poured out the blood of your people like water all around Jerusalem. No one is left to bury the dead. 
Psalms79:4 We are something our neighbors joke about. The nations around us laugh at us and make fun of us. 
Psalms79:5 Lord, how long will you be angry with us? Will it be forever? How long will your jealousy burn like fire?" 
Psalms79:6 Pour out your burning anger on the nations that don't pay any attention to you. Pour it out on the kingdoms that don't worship you. 
Psalms79:7 They have swallowed up the people of Jacob. They have destroyed Israel's homeland. 
Psalms79:8 Don't hold against us the sins of our people who lived before us. May you be quick to show us your tender love. We are in great need. 
Psalms79:9 God our Savior, help us. Then glory will come to you. Be true to your name. Save us and forgive our sins." 
Psalms79:10 Why should the nations say, ""Where is their God?"" Show the nations that you punish those who kill your people. We want to see it happen." 
Psalms79:11 Listen to the groans of the prisoners. Use your powerful arm to save the lives of those who have been sentenced to death. 
Psalms79:12 Lord, our neighbors have laughed at you. Pay them back seven times for what they have done." 
Psalms79:13 We are your people. We are your very own sheep. We will praise you forever. For all time to come we will keep on praising you. 
Psalms80:1 For the director of music. A psalm of Asaph to the tune of The Lilies of the Covenant. Shepherd of Israel, hear us. You lead the people of Joseph like a flock. You sit on your throne between the cherubim. Show your glory" 
Psalms80:2 to the people of Ephraim, Benjamin and Manasseh. Call your strength into action. Come and save us." 
Psalms80:3 God, make us new again. Let your face smile on us with favor. Then we will be saved." 
Psalms80:4 Lord God who rules over all, how long will your anger burn against the prayers of your people?" 
Psalms80:5 You have given us tears as our food. You have made us drink tears by the bowlful. 
Psalms80:6 You have let our neighbors fight against us. Our enemies laugh at us. 
Psalms80:7 God who rules over all, make us new again. Let your face smile on us with favor. Then we will be saved." 
Psalms80:8 You brought Israel out of Egypt. Israel was like a vine. After you drove the nations out of Canaan, you planted the vine in their land." 
Psalms80:9 You prepared the ground for it. It took root and spread out over the whole land. 
Psalms80:10 The mountains were covered with its shade. The shade of its branches covered the mighty cedar trees. 
Psalms80:11 Your vine sent its branches out all the way to the Mediterranean Sea. They reached as far as the Euphrates River. 
Psalms80:12 Why have you broken down the walls around your vine? Now all who pass by it can pick its grapes. 
Psalms80:13 Wild pigs from the forest destroy it. The creatures of the field feed on it. 
Psalms80:14 God who rules over all, return to us! Look down from heaven and see us! Watch over your vine." 
Psalms80:15 Guard the root you have planted with your powerful right hand. Take care of the branch you have raised up for yourself. 
Psalms80:16 Your vine has been cut down. Fire has burned it up. You have been angry with us, and we are dying." 
Psalms80:17 May you honor the people at your right hand. May you honor the nation you have raised up for yourself. 
Psalms80:18 Then we won't turn away from you. Give us new life. We will worship you. 
Psalms80:19 Lord God who rules over all, make us new again. Let your face smile on us with favor. Then we will be saved." 
Psalms81:1 For the director of music. For gittith. A psalm of Asaph. Sing joyfully to God! He gives us strength. Give a loud shout to the God of Jacob! 
Psalms81:2 Let the music begin. Play the tambourines. Play sweet music on harps and lyres. 
Psalms81:3 Blow the ram's horn on the day of the New Moon Feast. Blow it again when the moon is full and the Feast of Booths begins. 
Psalms81:4 This is an order given to Israel. It is a law of the God of Jacob. 
Psalms81:5 He gave it as a covenant law for the people of Joseph when God went out to punish Egypt. There we heard a language we didn't understand. 
Psalms81:6 God said, ""I removed the load from your shoulders. I set your hands free from carrying heavy baskets." 
Psalms81:7 You called out when you were in trouble, and I saved you. I answered you out of a thundercloud. I put you to the test at the waters of Meribah. Selah" 
Psalms81:8 My people, listen and I will warn you. Israel, I wish you would listen to me!" 
Psalms81:9 Don't have anything to do with the gods of other nations. Don't bow down and worship strange gods. 
Psalms81:10 I am the Lord your God. I brought you up out of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it with good things." 
Psalms81:11 But my people wouldn't listen to me. Israel wouldn't obey me. 
Psalms81:12 So I let them go their own stubborn way. I let them follow their own sinful plans. 
Psalms81:13 I wish my people would listen to me! I wish Israel would live as I want them to live! 
Psalms81:14 Then I would quickly bring their enemies under control. I would use my power against their attackers. 
Psalms81:15 Those who hate me would bow down to me in fear. They would be punished forever. 
Psalms81:16 But you would be fed with the finest wheat. I would satisfy you with the sweetest honey. 
Psalms82:1 A psalm of Asaph. God takes his place at the head of a large gathering of rulers and judges. He announces his decisions among them. 
Psalms82:2 He says, ""How long will you stand up for those who aren't fair to others? How long will you show favor to sinful people? Selah" 
Psalms82:3 Stand up for those who are weak and for those whose fathers have died. See to it that those who are poor and those who are beaten down are treated fairly. 
Psalms82:4 Save the weak and those who are in need. Save them from the power of sinful people. 
Psalms82:5 You rulers and judges don't know anything. You don't understand anything. You are in the dark about what is right. Law and order have been destroyed all over the world. 
Psalms82:6 I said, 'Rulers and judges, you are ""gods."" You are all children of the Most High God.'" 
Psalms82:7 But you will die, just like everyone else. You will die like every other ruler.""" 
Psalms82:8 God, rise up. Judge the earth. All of the nations belong to you." 
Psalms83:1 A song. A psalm of Asaph. God, don't keep silent. God, don't keep quiet. Don't be still." 
Psalms83:2 See how your enemies are getting ready for action. See how they are rising up against you. 
Psalms83:3 They make clever plans against your people. They make evil plans against those you love. 
Psalms83:4 Come,"" they say. ""Let's destroy that whole nation. Then the name of Israel won't be remembered anymore.""" 
Psalms83:5 All of them agree on the evil plans they have made. They join forces against you. 
Psalms83:6 Their forces include the people of Edom, Ishmael, Moab and Hagar." 
Psalms83:7 They also include the people of Byblos, Ammon, Amalek, Philistia and Tyre." 
Psalms83:8 Even Assyria has joined them to give strength to the people of Moab and Ammon. Selah 
Psalms83:9 Do to them what you did to the people of Midian. Do to them what you did to Sisera and Jabin at the Kishon River. 
Psalms83:10 Sisera and Jabin died near the town of Endor. Their bodies were left to rot on the ground. 
Psalms83:11 Do to the nobles of your enemies what you did to Oreb and Zeeb. Do to all of their princes what you did to Zebah and Zalmunna. 
Psalms83:12 They said, ""Let's take over the grasslands that belong to God.""" 
Psalms83:13 My God, make them like straw that the wind blows away. Make them like tumbleweed." 
Psalms83:14 Destroy them as fire burns up a forest. Destroy them as a flame sets mountains on fire. 
Psalms83:15 Chase them with your mighty winds. Terrify them with your storm. 
Psalms83:16 Lord, put them to shame so that people will worship you." 
Psalms83:17 May they always be filled with terror and shame. May they die in dishonor. 
Psalms83:18 Your name is the Lord. Let them know that you alone are the Most High God over the whole earth. 
Psalms84:1 For the director of music. For gittith. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. Lord who rules over all, how lovely is the place where you live!" 
Psalms84:2 I long to be in the courtyards of the Lord's temple. I deeply long to be there. My whole being cries out for the living God. 
Psalms84:3 Lord who rules over all, even the sparrow has found a home near your altar. My King and my God, the swallow also has a nest there, where she may have her young." 
Psalms84:4 Blessed are those who live in your house. They are always praising you. Selah 
Psalms84:5 Blessed are those whose strength comes from you. They have decided to travel to your temple. 
Psalms84:6 As they pass through the dry Valley of Baca, they make it a place where water flows. The rain in the fall covers it with pools." 
Psalms84:7 Those people get stronger as they go along, until each of them appears in Zion, where God lives." 
Psalms84:8 Lord God who rules over all, hear my prayer. God of the people of Jacob, listen to me. Selah" 
Psalms84:9 God, look with favor on your anointed king. You appointed him to be like a shield that keeps us safe." 
Psalms84:10 A single day in your courtyards is better than a thousand anywhere else. I would rather guard the door of the house of my God than live in the tents of sinful people. 
Psalms84:11 The Lord God is like the sun that gives us light. He is like a shield that keeps us safe. The Lord blesses us with favor and honor. He doesn't hold back anything good from those whose lives are without blame. 
Psalms84:12 Lord who rules over all, blessed is everyone who trusts in you." 
Psalms85:1 For the director of music. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. Lord, you showed favor to your land. You blessed the people of Jacob with great success again." 
Psalms85:2 You forgave the evil things your people did. You took away all of their sins. Selah 
Psalms85:3 You stopped being angry with them. You turned your burning anger away from them. 
Psalms85:4 God our Savior, make us new again. Stop being unhappy with us." 
Psalms85:5 Will you be angry with us forever? Will you be angry for all time to come? 
Psalms85:6 Won't you give us new life again? Then we'll be joyful because of what you have done. 
Psalms85:7 Lord, show us your faithful love. Save us." 
Psalms85:8 I will listen to what God the Lord will say. He promises peace to his faithful people. But they must not return to their foolish ways. 
Psalms85:9 I know he's ready to save those who have respect for him. Then his glory can be seen in our land. 
Psalms85:10 God's truth and faithful love join together. His peace and holiness kiss each other. 
Psalms85:11 His truth springs up from the earth. His holiness looks down from heaven. 
Psalms85:12 The Lord will certainly give what is good. Our land will produce its crops. 
Psalms85:13 God's holiness leads the way in front of him. It prepares the way for his coming. 
Psalms86:1 A prayer of David. Lord, hear me and answer me. I am poor and needy." 
Psalms86:2 Keep my life safe. I am faithful to you. You are my God. Save me. I trust in you. 
Psalms86:3 Lord, show me your favor. I call out to you all day long." 
Psalms86:4 Bring joy to me. Lord, I worship you." 
Psalms86:5 Lord, you are good. You are forgiving. You are full of love for all who call out to you." 
Psalms86:6 Lord, hear my prayer. Listen to my cry for your favor." 
Psalms86:7 When I'm in trouble, I will call out to you. And you will answer me." 
Psalms86:8 Lord, there's no one like you among the gods. No one can do what you do." 
Psalms86:9 Lord, all of the nations you have made will come and worship you. They will bring glory to you." 
Psalms86:10 You are great. You do wonderful things. You alone are God. 
Psalms86:11 Lord, teach me how you want me to live. Then I will follow your truth. Give me a heart that doesn't want anything more than to worship you." 
Psalms86:12 Lord my God, I will praise you with all my heart. I will bring glory to you forever." 
Psalms86:13 Great is your love for me. You have kept me from going down into the grave. 
Psalms86:14 God, proud people are attacking me. A gang of mean people is trying to kill me. They don't care about you." 
Psalms86:15 But Lord, you are a God who is tender and kind. You are gracious. You are slow to get angry. You are faithful and full of love." 
Psalms86:16 Turn to me and show me your favor. Give me strength and save me. 
Psalms86:17 Prove your goodness to me. Then my enemies will see it and be put to shame. Lord, you have helped me and given me comfort." 
Psalms87:1 A psalm of the Sons of Korah. A song. The Lord has built his city on the holy mountain. 
Psalms87:2 He loves the city of Zion more than all of the other places where the people of Jacob live. 
Psalms87:3 City of God, the Lord says glorious things about you. Selah" 
Psalms87:4 He says, ""I will include Egypt and Babylon in a list of those who recognize me as king. I will also include Philistia and Tyre, along with Cush. I will say about them, 'They were born in Zion.' """ 
Psalms87:5 Certainly it will be said about Zion, ""This nation and that nation were born in her. The Most High God himself will make her secure.""" 
Psalms87:6 Here is what the Lord will write in his list of the nations. Each of them was born in Zion. Selah 
Psalms87:7 As they make music they will sing, ""Zion, all of our blessings come from you.""" 
Psalms88:1 For the director of music. For mahalath leannoth. A song. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. A maskil of Heman the Ezrahite. Lord, you are the God who saves me. Day and night I cry out to you." 
Psalms88:1 For the director of music. For mahalath leannoth. A song. A psalm of the Sons of Korah. A maskil of Heman the Ezrahite. Lord, you are the God who saves me. Day and night I cry out to you." 
Psalms88:2 Please hear my prayer. Pay attention to my cry for help. 
Psalms88:3 I have so many troubles I'm about to die. 
Psalms88:4 People think my life is over. I'm like someone who doesn't have any strength. 
Psalms88:5 People treat me as if I were dead. I'm like those who have been killed and are now in the grave. You don't even remember them anymore. They are cut off from your care. 
Psalms88:6 It seems as if you have put me deep down in the grave, that deep and dark place." 
Psalms88:7 Your burning anger lies heavy on me. All the waves of your anger have crashed over me. Selah 
Psalms88:8 You have taken my closest friends away from me. You have made me sickening to them. I feel trapped. I can't escape. 
Psalms88:9 I'm crying so much I can't see very well. Lord, I call out to you every day. I lift up my hands to you in prayer." 
Psalms88:10 Do you work miracles for those who are dead? Do dead people rise up and praise you? Selah 
Psalms88:11 Do those who are dead speak about your love? Do those who are in the grave tell how faithful you are? 
Psalms88:12 Are your miracles known in that dark place? Are your holy acts known in that land where the dead are forgotten? 
Psalms88:13 Lord, I cry out to you for help. In the morning I pray to you." 
Psalms88:14 Lord, why do you say no to me? Why do you turn your face away from me?" 
Psalms88:15 I've been in pain ever since I was young. I've been close to death. You have made me suffer terrible things. I have lost all hope. 
Psalms88:16 Your burning anger has swept over me. Your terrors have destroyed me. 
Psalms88:17 All day long they surround me like a flood. They have closed in all around me. 
Psalms88:18 You have taken my companions and loved ones away from me. The darkness is my closest friend. 
Psalms89:1 A maskil of Ethan the Ezrahite. Lord, I will sing about your great love forever. For all time to come, I will tell how faithful you are." 
Psalms89:1 A maskil of Ethan the Ezrahite. Lord, I will sing about your great love forever. For all time to come, I will tell how faithful you are." 
Psalms89:2 I will tell everyone that your love stands firm forever. I will tell them that you are always faithful, even in heaven itself." 
Psalms89:3 You said, ""Here is the covenant I have made with my chosen one. Here is the promise I have made to my servant David." 
Psalms89:4 'I will make your family line continue forever. I will make your kingdom secure for all time to come.'  Selah 
Psalms89:5 Lord, the heavens praise you for your miracles. When your holy angels gather together, they praise you for how faithful you are." 
Psalms89:6 Who in the skies above can compare with the Lord? Who among the angels is like the Lord? 
Psalms89:7 God is highly respected among his holy angels. He's more wonderful than all those who are around him. 
Psalms89:8 Lord God who rules over all, who is like you? Lord, you are mighty. You are faithful in everything you do." 
Psalms89:9 You rule over the stormy sea. When its waves rise up, you calm them down." 
Psalms89:10 You crushed Egypt and killed her people. With your powerful arm you scattered your enemies. 
Psalms89:11 The heavens belong to you. The earth is yours also. You made the world and everything that is in it. 
Psalms89:12 You created everything from north to south. Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon sing to you with joy. 
Psalms89:13 Your arm is powerful. Your hand is strong. Your right hand is mighty. 
Psalms89:14 Your kingdom is built on what is right and fair. Your truth and faithful love lead the way in front of you. 
Psalms89:15 Blessed are those who have learned to shout praise to you. Lord, they live in the light of your favor." 
Psalms89:16 All day long they are full of joy because of who you are. They praise you because you do what is right. 
Psalms89:17 You are their glory. You give them strength. You favor them by honoring our king. 
Psalms89:18 Our king is like a shield that keeps us safe. He belongs to the Lord. He belongs to the Holy One of Israel. 
Psalms89:19 You once spoke to your faithful people in a vision. You said, ""I have given strength to a soldier. I have raised up a young man from among the people." 
Psalms89:20 I have found my servant David. I have poured my sacred oil on his head. 
Psalms89:21 My powerful hand will keep him going. My mighty arm will give him strength. 
Psalms89:22 No enemies will require him to bring gifts to them. No evil person will beat him down. 
Psalms89:23 I will crush the king's enemies. I will completely destroy them. 
Psalms89:24 I will love him and be faithful to him. Because of me his power will increase. 
Psalms89:25 I will give him a great kingdom. It will reach from the Mediterranean Sea to the Euphrates River. 
Psalms89:26 He will call out to me, 'You are my Father. You are my God. You are my Rock and Savior.'" 
Psalms89:27 I will also make him my oldest son. Among all the kings of the earth, he will be the most important one." 
Psalms89:28 I will continue to love him forever. I will never break my covenant with him. 
Psalms89:29 I will make his family line continue forever. His kingdom will last as long as the heavens. 
Psalms89:30 What if his sons turn away from my laws and do not follow them? 
Psalms89:31 What if they disobey my orders and fail to keep my commands? 
Psalms89:32 Then I will punish them for their sins. I will strike them with the rod. I will whip them for their evil acts. 
Psalms89:33 But I will not stop loving David. I will always be faithful to him. 
Psalms89:34 I will not break my covenant. I will not go back on my word. 
Psalms89:35 Once and for all, I have made a promise with an oath. It is based on my holiness. And I will not lie to David." 
Psalms89:36 His family line will continue forever. His kingdom will last as long as the sun. 
Psalms89:37 It will last forever like the moon, that faithful witness in the sky."" Selah" 
Psalms89:38 But you have turned your back on your anointed king. You have been very angry with him. 
Psalms89:39 You have broken the covenant you made with him. You have thrown your servant's crown into the dirt. 
Psalms89:40 You have broken through the walls around his city. You have completely destroyed his secure places. 
Psalms89:41 All those who pass by have carried off what belonged to him. His neighbors make fun of him. 
Psalms89:42 You have made his enemies strong. You have made all of them happy. 
Psalms89:43 You have made his sword useless. You have not helped him in battle. 
Psalms89:44 You have put an end to his glory. You have knocked his throne to the ground. 
Psalms89:45 You have cut short the days of his life. You have covered him with shame. Selah 
Psalms89:46 Lord, how long will you hide yourself? Will it be forever? How long will your anger burn like fire?" 
Psalms89:47 Remember how short my life is. You have created all people for such a useless purpose! 
Psalms89:48 What man can live and not die? Who can escape the power of the grave? Selah 
Psalms89:49 Lord, where is the great love you used to have? You faithfully promised it to David." 
Psalms89:50 Lord, remember how my enemies have made fun of me. I've had to put up with mean words from all of the nations." 
Psalms89:51 Lord, your enemies have said mean things. They have laughed at everything your anointed king has done." 
Psalms89:52 Give praise to the Lord forever! Amen and Amen. 
Psalms90:1 BOOK IV Lord, from the very beginning you have been like a home to us." 
Psalms90:2 Before you created the world and the mountains were made, from the beginning to the end you are God." 
Psalms90:3 You turn human beings back to dust. You say to them, ""Return to dust.""" 
Psalms90:4 To you a thousand years are like a day that has just gone by. They are like a few hours of the night. 
Psalms90:5 You sweep people away, and they die. They are like new grass that grows in the morning." 
Psalms90:6 In the morning it springs up new, but by evening it's all dried up." 
Psalms90:7 Your anger destroys us. Your burning anger terrifies us. 
Psalms90:8 You have put our sins right in front of you. You have placed our secret sins where you can see them clearly. 
Psalms90:9 You have been angry with us all of our days. We groan as we come to the end of our lives. 
Psalms90:10 We live to be about 70. Or we may live to be 80, if we stay healthy. But all that time is filled with trouble and sorrow. The years quickly pass, and we are gone." 
Psalms90:11 Who knows how powerful your anger is? It's as great as the respect we should have for you. 
Psalms90:12 Teach us to realize how short our lives are. Then our hearts will become wise. 
Psalms90:13 Lord, please stop punishing us! How long will you keep it up? Be kind to us." 
Psalms90:14 Satisfy us with your faithful love every morning. Then we can sing with joy and be glad all of our days. 
Psalms90:15 Make us glad for as many days as you have made us suffer. Give us joy for as many years as we've had trouble. 
Psalms90:16 Show us your mighty acts. Let our children see your glorious power. 
Psalms90:17 May the Lord our God show us his favor. Lord, make what we do succeed. Please make what we do succeed." 
Psalms91:1 The person who rests in the shadow of the Most High God will be kept safe by the Mighty One. 
Psalms91:2 I will say about the Lord, ""He is my place of safety. He is like a fort to me. He is my God. I trust in him.""" 
Psalms91:3 He will certainly save you from hidden traps and from deadly sickness. 
Psalms91:4 He will cover you with his wings. Under the feathers of his wings you will find safety. He is faithful. He will keep you safe like a shield or a tower. 
Psalms91:5 You won't have to be afraid of the terrors that come during the night. You won't have to fear the arrows that come at you during the day. 
Psalms91:6 You won't have to be afraid of the sickness that attacks in the darkness. You won't have to fear the plague that destroys at noon. 
Psalms91:7 A thousand may fall dead at your side. Ten thousand may fall near your right hand. But no harm will come to you. 
Psalms91:8 You will see with your own eyes how God punishes sinful people. 
Psalms91:9 The Lord is the one who keeps you safe. So let the Most High God be like a home to you. 
Psalms91:10 Then no harm will come to you. No terrible plague will come near your tent. 
Psalms91:11 The Lord will command his angels to take good care of you. 
Psalms91:12 They will lift you up in their hands. Then you won't trip over a stone. 
Psalms91:13 You will walk all over lions and cobras. You will crush mighty lions and poisonous snakes. 
Psalms91:14 The Lord says, ""I will save the one who loves me. I will keep him safe, because he trusts in me." 
Psalms91:15 He will call out to me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in times of trouble. I will save him and honor him." 
Psalms91:16 I will give him a long and full life. I will save him. 
Psalms92:1 A psalm. A song for the Sabbath day. Lord, it is good to praise you. Most High God, it is good to make music to honor you." 
Psalms92:2 It is good to sing every morning about your love. It is good to sing every night about how faithful you are. 
Psalms92:3 I sing about it to the music of the lyre that has ten strings. I sing about it to the music of the harp. 
Psalms92:4 Lord, you make me glad by what you have done. I sing with joy about the works of your hands." 
Psalms92:5 Lord, how great are the things you do! How wise your thoughts are!" 
Psalms92:6 Here is something a man who isn't wise doesn't know. Here is what a foolish person doesn't understand. 
Psalms92:7 Those who are evil spring up like grass. Those who do wrong succeed. But they will be destroyed forever. 
Psalms92:8 But Lord, you are honored forever." 
Psalms92:9 Lord, your enemies will certainly die. All those who do evil will be scattered." 
Psalms92:10 You have made me as strong as a wild ox. You have poured the finest olive oil on me. 
Psalms92:11 I've seen my evil enemies destroyed. I've heard that they have lost the battle. 
Psalms92:12 Those who do what is right will grow like a palm tree. They will grow strong like a cedar tree in Lebanon. 
Psalms92:13 Their roots will be firm in the house of the Lord. They will grow strong and healthy in the courtyards of our God. 
Psalms92:14 When they get old, they will still bear fruit. Like young trees they will stay fresh and strong." 
Psalms92:15 They will say to everyone, ""The Lord is honest. He is my Rock. There is no evil in him.""" 
Psalms93:1 The Lord rules. He puts on majesty as if it were clothes. The Lord puts on majesty and strength. The world is firmly set in place. It can't be moved. 
Psalms93:2 Lord, you began to rule a long time ago. You have always existed." 
Psalms93:3 Lord, the seas have lifted up their voice. They have lifted up their pounding waves." 
Psalms93:4 But Lord, you are more powerful than the roar of the ocean. You are stronger than the waves of the sea. Lord, you are powerful in heaven." 
Psalms93:5 Your laws do not change. Lord, your temple will be holy for all time to come." 
Psalms94:1 Lord, you are the God who punishes. Since you are the one who punishes, come and show your anger." 
Psalms94:2 Judge of the earth, rise up. Pay back proud people for what they have done." 
Psalms94:3 Lord, how long will those who are evil be glad? How long will they be full of joy?" 
Psalms94:4 Proud words pour out of their mouths. All those who do evil are always bragging. 
Psalms94:5 Lord, they crush your people. They beat down those who belong to you." 
Psalms94:6 They kill outsiders. They kill widows. They murder children whose fathers have died. 
Psalms94:7 They say, ""The Lord doesn't see what's happening. The God of Jacob doesn't pay any attention to it.""" 
Psalms94:8 You who aren't wise, pay attention. You foolish people, when will you become wise?" 
Psalms94:9 Does he who made the ear not hear? Does he who formed the eye not see? 
Psalms94:10 Does he who corrects nations not punish? Does he who teaches human beings not know anything? 
Psalms94:11 The Lord knows what people think. He knows that their thoughts don't amount to anything. 
Psalms94:12 Lord, blessed is the man you correct. Blessed is the person you teach from your law." 
Psalms94:13 You give him rest from times of trouble, until a pit is dug to trap sinners." 
Psalms94:14 The Lord won't say no to his people. He will never desert those who belong to him. 
Psalms94:15 He will again judge people in keeping with what is right. All those who have honest hearts will follow the right way. 
Psalms94:16 Who will rise up for me against sinful people? Who will stand up for me against those who do evil? 
Psalms94:17 Suppose the Lord had not helped me. Then I would soon have been lying quietly in the grave. 
Psalms94:18 I said, ""My foot is slipping."" But Lord, your love kept me from falling." 
Psalms94:19 I was very worried. But your comfort brought joy to my heart. 
Psalms94:20 Can you have anything to do with rulers who aren't fair? Can those who make laws that cause suffering be friends of yours? 
Psalms94:21 They join together against those who do what is right. They sentence to death those who aren't guilty of doing anything wrong. 
Psalms94:22 But the Lord has become like a fort to me. My God is my rock. I go to him for safety. 
Psalms94:23 He will pay them back for their sins. He will destroy them for their evil acts. The Lord our God will destroy them. 
Psalms95:1 Come, let us sing with joy to the Lord. Let us give a loud shout to the Rock who saves us." 
Psalms95:2 Let us come to him and give him thanks. Let us praise him with music and song. 
Psalms95:3 The Lord is the great God. He is the greatest King. He rules over all of the gods. 
Psalms95:4 He owns the deepest parts of the earth. The mountain peaks belong to him. 
Psalms95:5 The ocean is his, because he made it. He formed the dry land with his hands." 
Psalms95:6 Come, let us bow down and worship him. Let us fall on our knees in front of the Lord our Maker." 
Psalms95:7 He is our God. We are the sheep belonging to his flock. We are the people he takes good care of. Listen to his voice today. 
Psalms95:8 If you hear it, don't be stubborn as you were at Meribah. Don't be stubborn as you were that day at Massah in the desert." 
Psalms95:9 There your people of long ago really put me to the test. They did it even though they had seen what I had done for them. 
Psalms95:10 For 40 years I was angry with them. I said, ""Their hearts are always going down the wrong path. They do not know how I want them to live.""" 
Psalms95:11 So when I was angry, I took an oath. I said, ""They will never enjoy the rest I planned for them.""" 
Psalms96:1 Sing a new song to the Lord. All you people of the earth, sing to the Lord." 
Psalms96:2 Sing to the Lord. Praise him. Day after day tell about how he saves us. 
Psalms96:3 Tell the nations about his glory. Tell all people about the wonderful things he has done. 
Psalms96:4 The Lord is great. He is really worthy of praise. People should have respect for him as the greatest God of all. 
Psalms96:5 All of the gods of the nations are like their statues. They can't do anything. But the Lord made the heavens. 
Psalms96:6 Glory and majesty are all around him. Strength and glory can be seen in his temple. 
Psalms96:7 Praise the Lord, all you nations. Praise the Lord for his glory and strength." 
Psalms96:8 Praise the Lord for the glory that belongs to him. Bring an offering and come into the courtyards of his temple. 
Psalms96:9 Worship the Lord because of his beauty and holiness. All you people of the earth, tremble when you are with him." 
Psalms96:10 Say to the nations, ""The Lord rules."" The world is firmly set in place. It can't be moved. The Lord will judge the people of the world fairly." 
Psalms96:11 Let the heavens be full of joy. Let the earth be glad. Let the ocean and everything in it roar. 
Psalms96:12 Let the fields and everything in them be glad. Then all of the trees in the forest will sing with joy. 
Psalms96:13 They will sing to the Lord, because he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the people of the world in keeping with what is right and true." 
Psalms97:1 The Lord rules. Let the earth be glad. Let countries that are far away be full of joy. 
Psalms97:2 Clouds and thick darkness surround him. His rule is built on what is right and fair. 
Psalms97:3 The Lord sends fire ahead of him. It burns up his enemies all around him. 
Psalms97:4 His lightning lights up the world. The earth sees it and trembles. 
Psalms97:5 The mountains melt like wax when the Lord is near. He is the Lord of the whole earth. 
Psalms97:6 The heavens announce that what he does is right. All people everywhere see his glory. 
Psalms97:7 All who worship statues of gods or brag about them are put to shame. All you gods, worship the Lord!" 
Psalms97:8 Zion hears about it and is filled with joy. Lord, the villages of Judah are glad because of how you judge." 
Psalms97:9 Lord, you are the Most High God. You rule over the whole earth. You are honored much more than all gods." 
Psalms97:10 Let those who love the Lord hate evil. He guards the lives of those who are faithful to him. He saves them from the power of sinful people. 
Psalms97:11 The light of his favor shines on those who do what is right. Joy comes to those whose hearts are honest. 
Psalms97:12 You who are godly, be glad because of what the Lord has done. Praise him, because his name is holy." 
Psalms98:1 A psalm. Sing a new song to the Lord. He has done wonderful things. By the power of his right hand and his holy arm he has saved his people. 
Psalms98:2 The Lord has made known his power to save. He has shown the nations that he does what is right. 
Psalms98:3 He has shown his faithful love to the people of Israel. People from one end of the earth to the other have seen that our God has saved us. 
Psalms98:4 Shout to the Lord with joy, everyone on earth. Burst into joyful songs and make music." 
Psalms98:5 Make music to the Lord with the harp. Sing and make music with the harp. 
Psalms98:6 Blow the trumpets. Give a blast on the ram's horn. Shout to the Lord with joy. He is the King. 
Psalms98:7 Let the ocean and everything in it roar. Let the world and all who live in it shout. 
Psalms98:8 Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the mountains sing together with joy. 
Psalms98:9 Let them sing to the Lord, because he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the nations of the world in keeping with what is right and fair." 
Psalms99:1 The Lord rules. Let the nations tremble. He sits on his throne between the cherubim. Let the earth shake. 
Psalms99:2 Great is the Lord in Zion. He is honored over all of the nations. 
Psalms99:3 Let them praise his great and wonderful name. He is holy. 
Psalms99:4 The King is mighty. He loves what is fair. He has set up the rules for fairness. He has done what is right and fair for the people of Jacob. 
Psalms99:5 Honor the Lord our God. Worship at his feet. He is holy. 
Psalms99:6 Moses and Aaron were two of his priests. Samuel was one of those who worshiped him. They called out to the Lord. And he answered them. 
Psalms99:7 He spoke to them from the pillar of cloud. They obeyed his laws and the orders he gave them. 
Psalms99:8 Lord our God, you answered them. You showed Israel that you are a God who forgives. But when they did wrong, you punished them." 
Psalms99:9 Honor the Lord our God. Worship at his holy mountain. The Lord our God is holy. 
Psalms100:1 A psalm for giving thanks. Shout to the Lord with joy, everyone on earth." 
Psalms100:2 Worship the Lord with gladness. Come to him with songs of joy. 
Psalms100:3 I want you to realize that the Lord is God. He made us, and we belong to him. We are his people. We are the sheep belonging to his flock." 
Psalms100:4 Give thanks as you enter the gates of his temple. Give praise as you enter its courtyards. Give thanks to him and praise his name. 
Psalms100:5 The Lord is good. His faithful love continues forever. It will last for all time to come. 
Psalms101:1 A psalm of David. I will sing about your love and fairness. Lord, I will sing praise to you." 
Psalms101:2 I will be careful to lead a life that is without blame. When will you come and help me? I will lead a life that is without blame in my house. 
Psalms101:3 I won't look at anything that is evil. I hate the acts of people who aren't faithful to you. I don't even want people like that around me. 
Psalms101:4 I will stay away from those whose hearts are twisted. I don't want to have anything to do with evil. 
Psalms101:5 I will get rid of anyone who tells lies about his neighbor in secret. I won't put up with anyone whose eyes and heart are proud. 
Psalms101:6 I will look with favor on the faithful people in the land. They will live with me. Those whose lives are without blame will serve me. 
Psalms101:7 No one who lies and cheats will live in my house. No one who tells lies will serve me. 
Psalms101:8 Every morning I will get rid of all the sinful people in the land. I will remove from the city of the Lord everyone who does what is evil. 
Psalms102:1 A prayer of a suffering man when he is weak and pours out his problems to the Lord. Lord, hear my prayer. Listen to my cry for help." 
Psalms102:2 Don't turn your face away from me when I'm in trouble. Pay attention to me. When I call out for help, answer me quickly." 
Psalms102:3 My days are disappearing like smoke. My body burns like glowing coals. 
Psalms102:4 My strength has dried up like grass. I even forget to eat my food. 
Psalms102:5 I groan out loud because of my suffering. I'm nothing but skin and bones. 
Psalms102:6 I'm like a desert owl. I'm like an owl among destroyed buildings. 
Psalms102:7 I can't sleep. I've become like a bird alone on a roof. 
Psalms102:8 All day long my enemies laugh at me. Those who make fun of me use my name as a curse. 
Psalms102:9 I eat ashes as my food. My tears fall into what I'm drinking. 
Psalms102:10 You were very angry with me. So you picked me up and threw me away. 
Psalms102:11 The days of my life are like an evening shadow. I dry up like grass. 
Psalms102:12 But Lord, you are seated on your throne forever. Your fame will continue for all time to come." 
Psalms102:13 You will rise up and show deep concern for Zion. The time has come for you to show favor to it. 
Psalms102:14 The stones of your destroyed city are priceless to us. Even its dust brings deep concern to us. 
Psalms102:15 The nations will worship the Lord. All of the kings on earth will respect his glorious power. 
Psalms102:16 The Lord will build Zion again. He will appear in his glory. 
Psalms102:17 He will answer the prayer of those who don't have anything. He won't say no to their cry for help. 
Psalms102:18 Let this be written down for those born after us. Then people who are not yet born can praise the Lord. 
Psalms102:19 Here is what should be written. The Lord looked down from his temple in heaven. From heaven he viewed the earth. 
Psalms102:20 He heard the groans of the prisoners. He set free those who were sentenced to death. 
Psalms102:21 So people will talk about him in Zion. They will praise him in Jerusalem. 
Psalms102:22 Nations and kingdoms will gather there to worship the Lord. 
Psalms102:23 When I was still young, he took away my strength. He wasn't going to let me live much longer." 
Psalms102:24 So I said, ""My God, don't let me die in the middle of my life. You will live for all time to come." 
Psalms102:25 In the beginning you made the earth secure. You placed it on its foundations. Your hands created the heavens. 
Psalms102:26 They will pass away. But you will remain. They will all wear out like a piece of clothing. You will make them like clothes that are taken off and thrown away. 
Psalms102:27 But you remain the same. Your years will never end. 
Psalms102:28 Our children will live with you. Their sons and daughters will be safe in your care. 
Psalms103:1 A psalm of David. I will praise the Lord. Deep down inside me, I will praise him. I will praise him, because his name is holy." 
Psalms103:2 I will praise the Lord. I won't forget anything he does for me. 
Psalms103:3 He forgives all my sins. He heals all my sicknesses. 
Psalms103:4 He saves my life from going down into the grave. His faithful and tender love makes me feel like a king. 
Psalms103:5 He satisfies me with the good things I long for. Then I feel young and strong again, just like an eagle." 
Psalms103:6 The Lord does what is right and fair for all who are beaten down. 
Psalms103:7 He told Moses all about his plans. He let the people of Israel see his mighty acts. 
Psalms103:8 The Lord is tender and kind. He is gracious. He is slow to get angry. He is full of love. 
Psalms103:9 He won't keep bringing charges against us. He won't stay angry with us forever. 
Psalms103:10 He doesn't punish us for our sins as much as we should be punished. He doesn't pay us back in keeping with the evil things we've done. 
Psalms103:11 His love for those who have respect for him is as high as the heavens are above the earth. 
Psalms103:12 He has removed our lawless acts from us as far as the east is from the west. 
Psalms103:13 A father is tender and kind to his children. In the same way, the Lord is tender and kind to those who have respect for him." 
Psalms103:14 He knows what we are made of. He remembers that we are dust. 
Psalms103:15 People's lives are like grass. People grow like the flowers in the field. 
Psalms103:16 When the wind blows on them, they are gone. No one can tell that they had ever been there." 
Psalms103:17 But the Lord's love for those who have respect for him lasts for ever and ever. Their children's children will know that he always does what is right. 
Psalms103:18 He always loves those who keep his covenant. He always does what is right for those who remember to obey his commands. 
Psalms103:19 The Lord has set up his throne in heaven. His kingdom rules over all. 
Psalms103:20 Praise the Lord, you angels of his. Praise him, you mighty ones who carry out his orders and obey his word." 
Psalms103:21 Praise the Lord, all you angels in heaven. Praise him, all you who serve him and do what he wants." 
Psalms103:22 Let everything the Lord has made praise him everywhere in his kingdom. I will praise the Lord. 
Psalms104:1 I will praise the Lord. Lord my God, you are very great. You are dressed in glory and majesty." 
Psalms104:2 You wrap yourself in light as if it were a robe. You spread the heavens out like a tent. 
Psalms104:3 You build your palace high in the heavens. You make the clouds serve as your chariot. You ride on the wings of the wind. 
Psalms104:4 You make the winds serve as your messengers. You make flashes of lightning serve you. 
Psalms104:5 You placed the earth on its foundations. It can never be moved. 
Psalms104:6 You covered it with the oceans like a blanket. The waters covered the mountains. 
Psalms104:7 But you commanded the waters, and they ran away. At the sound of your thunder they rushed off." 
Psalms104:8 They flowed down the mountains. They went into the valleys. They went to the place you appointed for them. 
Psalms104:9 You drew a line they can't cross. They will never cover the earth again. 
Psalms104:10 You make springs pour water into the valleys. It flows between the mountains. 
Psalms104:11 The springs give water to all of the wild animals. The wild donkeys satisfy their thirst. 
Psalms104:12 The birds of the air build nests by the waters. They sing among the branches. 
Psalms104:13 You water the mountains from your palace high in the clouds. The earth is filled with the things you have made. 
Psalms104:14 You make grass grow for the cattle and plants for people to take care of. That's how they get food from the earth. 
Psalms104:15 There is wine to make people glad. There is olive oil to make them healthy. And there is bread to make them strong. 
Psalms104:16 The cedar trees of Lebanon belong to the Lord. You planted them and gave them plenty of water. 
Psalms104:17 There the birds make their nests. The stork has its home in the pine trees. 
Psalms104:18 The high mountains belong to the wild goats. The cliffs are a safe place for the rock badgers. 
Psalms104:19 The moon serves to mark off the seasons. The sun knows when to go down. 
Psalms104:20 You bring darkness, and it becomes night. Then all the animals of the forest prowl around." 
Psalms104:21 The lions roar while they hunt. All of their food comes from God. 
Psalms104:22 The sun rises, and they slip away. They return to their dens and lie down." 
Psalms104:23 Then a man gets up and goes to work. He keeps working until evening. 
Psalms104:24 Lord, you have made so many things! How wise you were when you made all of them! The earth is full of your creatures." 
Psalms104:25 Look at the ocean, so big and wide! It is filled with more creatures than people can count. It is filled with living things, from the largest to the smallest." 
Psalms104:26 Ships sail back and forth on it. The leviathan, the sea monster you made, plays in it." 
Psalms104:27 All of those creatures depend on you to give them their food when they need it. 
Psalms104:28 When you give it to them, they eat it. When you open your hand, they are satisfied with good things." 
Psalms104:29 When you turn your face away from them, they are terrified. When you take away their breath, they die and turn back into dust." 
Psalms104:30 When you send your Spirit, you create them. You give new life to the earth." 
Psalms104:31 May the glory of the Lord continue forever. May the Lord be happy with what he has made. 
Psalms104:32 When he looks at the earth, it trembles. When he touches the mountains, they pour out smoke." 
Psalms104:33 I will sing to the Lord all my life. I will sing praise to my God as long as I live. 
Psalms104:34 May these thoughts of mine please him. I find my joy in the Lord. 
Psalms104:35 But may those who sin be gone from the earth. May evil people disappear. I will praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms105:1 Give thanks to the Lord. Worship him. Tell the nations what he has done. 
Psalms105:2 Sing to him. Sing praise to him. Tell about all of the wonderful things he has done. 
Psalms105:3 Praise him, because his name is holy. Let the hearts of those who trust in the Lord be glad." 
Psalms105:4 Look to the Lord and to his strength. Always look to him. 
Psalms105:5 Remember the wonderful things he has done. Remember his miracles and how he judged our enemies. 
Psalms105:6 Remember what he has done, you children of his servant Abraham. Remember it, you people of Jacob, God's chosen ones." 
Psalms105:7 He is the Lord our God. He judges the whole earth. 
Psalms105:8 He will keep his covenant forever. He will keep his promise for all time to come. 
Psalms105:9 He will keep the covenant he made with Abraham. He will keep the oath he took when he made his promise to Isaac. 
Psalms105:10 He made it stand as a law for Jacob. He made it stand as a covenant for Israel. It will last forever. 
Psalms105:11 He said, ""I will give you the land of Canaan. It will belong to you.""" 
Psalms105:12 At first there weren't very many of God's people. There were only a few. And they were strangers in the land. 
Psalms105:13 They wandered from nation to nation. They wandered from one kingdom to another. 
Psalms105:14 But God didn't allow anyone to beat them down. To keep them safe, he gave a command to kings." 
Psalms105:15 He said to them, ""Do not touch my anointed ones. Do not harm my prophets.""" 
Psalms105:16 He made the people in the land go hungry. He destroyed all their food supplies. 
Psalms105:17 He sent a man ahead of them into Egypt. That man was Joseph. He had been sold as a slave. 
Psalms105:18 The Egyptians put his feet in chains. They put an iron collar around his neck. 
Psalms105:19 He was in prison until what he said would happen came true. The word of the Lord proved that he was right. 
Psalms105:20 The king of Egypt sent for Joseph and let him out of prison. The ruler of many nations set him free. 
Psalms105:21 He put Joseph in charge of his palace. He made him ruler over everything he owned. 
Psalms105:22 Joseph was in charge of teaching the princes. He taught the elders how to think and live wisely. 
Psalms105:23 Then the rest of Jacob's family went to Egypt. The people of Israel lived as outsiders in the land of Ham. 
Psalms105:24 The Lord gave his people so many children that there were too many of them for their enemies. 
Psalms105:25 He made the Egyptians hate his people. The Egyptians made evil plans against them. 
Psalms105:26 The Lord sent his servant Moses to the king of Egypt. He sent Aaron, his chosen one, along with him." 
Psalms105:27 The Lord gave them the power to do miraculous signs among the Egyptians. They did his wonders in the land of Ham. 
Psalms105:28 He sent darkness over the land. He did it because the Egyptians had refused to obey his words. 
Psalms105:29 He turned their rivers and streams into blood. He caused the fish in them to die. 
Psalms105:30 Their land was covered with frogs. Frogs even went into the bedrooms of the rulers. 
Psalms105:31 The Lord spoke, and large numbers of flies came. Gnats filled the whole country." 
Psalms105:32 He turned their rain into hail. Lightning flashed all through their land. 
Psalms105:33 He destroyed their vines and fig trees. He broke down the trees in Egypt. 
Psalms105:34 He spoke, and the locusts came. There were so many of them they couldn't be counted." 
Psalms105:35 They ate up every green thing in the land. They ate up what the land produced. 
Psalms105:36 Then he killed the oldest son of every family in Egypt. He struck down the oldest of all of their sons. 
Psalms105:37 He brought the people of Israel out of Egypt. The Egyptians loaded them down with silver and gold. From among the tribes of Israel no one got tired or fell down. 
Psalms105:38 The Egyptians were glad when the people of Israel left. They were terrified because of Israel. 
Psalms105:39 The Lord spread out a cloud to cover his people. He gave them a fire to light up the night. 
Psalms105:40 They asked for meat, and he brought them quail. He satisfied them with manna, the bread of heaven." 
Psalms105:41 He broke open a rock, and streams of water poured out. They flowed like a river in the desert." 
Psalms105:42 He remembered the holy promise he had made to his servant Abraham. 
Psalms105:43 His chosen people shouted for joy as he brought them out of Egypt. 
Psalms105:44 He gave them the lands of other nations. He let them take over what others had worked for. 
Psalms105:45 He did it so they might obey his rules and follow his laws. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms106:1 Praise the Lord. Give thanks to the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms106:2 Who can speak enough about the mighty acts of the Lord? Who can praise him as much as he should be praised? 
Psalms106:3 Blessed are those who always do what is fair. Blessed are those who keep doing what is right. 
Psalms106:4 Lord, remember me when you show favor to your people. Help me when you save them." 
Psalms106:5 Then I will enjoy the good things you give your chosen ones. I will be joyful together with your people. I will join them when they praise you. 
Psalms106:6 We have sinned, just as our people of long ago did. We too have done what is evil and wrong." 
Psalms106:7 When our people were in Egypt, they forgot about the Lord's miracles. They didn't remember his many kind acts. At the Red Sea they refused to obey him." 
Psalms106:8 But he saved them for the honor of his name. He did it to make his mighty power known. 
Psalms106:9 He ordered the Red Sea to dry up, and it did. He led his people through it as if it were a desert." 
Psalms106:10 He saved them from the power of their enemies. He set them free from their control. 
Psalms106:11 The waters covered their enemies. Not one of them escaped alive. 
Psalms106:12 Then his people believed his promises and sang praise to him. 
Psalms106:13 But they soon forgot what he had done. They didn't wait for his advice. 
Psalms106:14 In the desert they longed for food. In that dry and empty land they put God to the test. 
Psalms106:15 So he gave them what they asked for. But he also sent a sickness that killed many of them. 
Psalms106:16 In their camp some of them became jealous of Moses. They were also jealous of Aaron. He had been set apart to serve the Lord. 
Psalms106:17 The ground opened up and swallowed Dathan. It buried Abiram and his followers. 
Psalms106:18 Fire blazed among all of them. Flames destroyed those evil people. 
Psalms106:19 At Mount Horeb they made a metal statue of a bull calf. They worshiped that statue of a god. 
Psalms106:20 They traded their glorious God for a statue of a bull that eats grass. 
Psalms106:21 They forgot the God who saved them. They forgot the One who had done great things in Egypt. 
Psalms106:22 They forgot the miracles he did in the land of Ham. They forgot the wonderful things he did by the Red Sea. 
Psalms106:23 So he said he would destroy them. But Moses, his chosen one, stood up for them. He kept God's anger from destroying them." 
Psalms106:24 Later on, they refused to enter the pleasant land of Canaan. They didn't believe God's promise." 
Psalms106:25 In their tents they told the Lord how unhappy they were. They didn't obey him. 
Psalms106:26 So he lifted up his hand and promised with an oath that he would make them die in the desert. 
Psalms106:27 He promised he would scatter their children's children among the nations. He would make them die in other lands. 
Psalms106:28 They joined in worshiping the Baal that was worshiped at Peor. They ate food that had been offered to gods that aren't even alive. 
Psalms106:29 Their evil ways made the Lord angry. So a plague broke out among them. 
Psalms106:30 But Phinehas stood up and took action. Then the plague stopped. 
Psalms106:31 What Phinehas did made him right with the Lord. It will be remembered for all time to come. 
Psalms106:32 By the waters of Meribah the Lord's people made him angry. Moses got in trouble because of them. 
Psalms106:33 They refused to obey the Spirit of God. So Moses spoke without thinking. 
Psalms106:34 They didn't destroy the nations in Canaan as the Lord had commanded them. 
Psalms106:35 Instead, they mixed with those nations and adopted their ways." 
Psalms106:36 They worshiped statues of their gods. That became a trap for them. 
Psalms106:37 They sacrificed their sons and daughters as offerings to demons. 
Psalms106:38 They killed those who weren't guilty of doing anything wrong. They killed their own sons and daughters. They sacrificed them as offerings to statues of the gods of Canaan. The land became unclean because of the blood of their children. 
Psalms106:39 The people polluted themselves by what they had done. They weren't faithful to the Lord. 
Psalms106:40 So the Lord became angry with his people. He turned away from his own children. 
Psalms106:41 He handed them over to the nations. Their enemies ruled over them. 
Psalms106:42 They beat them down and kept them under their power. 
Psalms106:43 Many times the Lord saved them. But they refused to obey him. So he destroyed them because of their sins. 
Psalms106:44 But he heard them when they cried out. He paid special attention to their suffering. 
Psalms106:45 Because they were his people, he remembered his covenant. Because of his great love, he felt sorry for them." 
Psalms106:46 He made all those who held them as prisoners show concern for them. 
Psalms106:47 Lord our God, save us. Bring us back from among the nations. Then we will give thanks to you, because your name is holy. We will celebrate by praising you." 
Psalms106:48 Give praise to the Lord, the God of Israel, for ever and ever. Let all of the people say, ""Amen!"" Praise the Lord." 
Psalms107:1 BOOK V Give thanks to the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms107:2 That's what those who have been set free by the Lord should say. He set them free from the power of the enemy. 
Psalms107:3 He brought them back from other lands. He brought them back from east and west, from north and south." 
Psalms107:4 Some of them wandered in deserts that were dry and empty. They couldn't find their way to a city where they could settle down. 
Psalms107:5 They were hungry and thirsty. Their lives were slipping away. 
Psalms107:6 Then they cried out to the Lord because of their problems. And he saved them from their troubles. 
Psalms107:7 He led them straight to a city where they could settle down. 
Psalms107:8 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his faithful love. Let them give thanks for the miracles he does for his people. 
Psalms107:9 He gives those who are thirsty all of the water they want. He gives those who are hungry all of the good food they can eat. 
Psalms107:10 Others lived in the deepest darkness. They suffered as prisoners in iron chains. 
Psalms107:11 That's because they hadn't obeyed the words of God. They had refused to follow the advice of the Most High God. 
Psalms107:12 So he made them do work that was hard and bitter. They tripped and fell, and there was no one to help them." 
Psalms107:13 Then they cried out to the Lord because of their problems. And he saved them from their troubles. 
Psalms107:14 He brought them out of the deepest darkness. He broke their chains off. 
Psalms107:15 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his faithful love. Let them give thanks for the miracles he does for his people. 
Psalms107:16 He breaks down gates that are made of bronze. He cuts through bars that are made of iron. 
Psalms107:17 Others were foolish. They suffered because of their sins. They suffered because they wouldn't obey the Lord. 
Psalms107:18 They refused to eat anything. They came close to passing through the gates of death. 
Psalms107:19 Then they cried out to the Lord because of their problems. And he saved them from their troubles. 
Psalms107:20 He gave his command and healed them. He saved them from the grave. 
Psalms107:21 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his faithful love. Let them give thanks for the miracles he does for his people. 
Psalms107:22 Let them sacrifice thank offerings. Let them talk about what he has done as they sing with joy. 
Psalms107:23 Others sailed out on the ocean in ships. They traded goods on the mighty waters. 
Psalms107:24 They saw the works of the Lord. They saw the miracles he did on the ocean. 
Psalms107:25 He spoke and stirred up a storm. It lifted the waves high. 
Psalms107:26 They rose up to the heavens. Then they went down deep into the ocean. In that kind of danger the people's boldness melted away. 
Psalms107:27 They were unsteady like those who get drunk. They didn't know what to do. 
Psalms107:28 Then they cried out to the Lord because of their problems. And he brought them out of their troubles. 
Psalms107:29 He made the storm as quiet as a whisper. The waves of the ocean calmed down. 
Psalms107:30 The people were glad when the ocean became calm. Then he guided them to the harbor they were looking for. 
Psalms107:31 Let them give thanks to the Lord for his faithful love. Let them give thanks for the miracles he does for his people. 
Psalms107:32 Let them honor him among his people who gather for worship. Let them praise him in the meeting of the elders. 
Psalms107:33 He turned rivers into a desert. He turned flowing springs into thirsty ground. 
Psalms107:34 He turned land that produced crops into a salty land where nothing could grow. He did it because the people who lived there were evil. 
Psalms107:35 He turned the desert into pools of water. He turned the dry and cracked ground into flowing springs. 
Psalms107:36 He brought hungry people there to live. They built a city where they could settle down. 
Psalms107:37 They planted fields and vineyards that produced large crops. 
Psalms107:38 He blessed the people, and they greatly increased their numbers. He kept their herds from getting smaller." 
Psalms107:39 Then the number of God's people got smaller. They were brought low by trouble, suffering and sorrow." 
Psalms107:40 The One who looks down on proud nobles made them wander in a desert where no one lives. 
Psalms107:41 But he lifted needy people out of their suffering. He made their families increase like flocks of sheep. 
Psalms107:42 Honest people see it and are filled with joy. But no one who is evil has anything to say. 
Psalms107:43 Let those who are wise pay attention to these things. Let them think about the Lord's great love. 
Psalms108:1 A song. A psalm of David. God, my heart feels secure. I will sing and make music to you with all my heart." 
Psalms108:2 Harp and lyre, wake up! I want to sing and make music before the sun rises." 
Psalms108:3 Lord, I will praise you among the nations. I will sing about you among the people of the earth." 
Psalms108:4 Great is your love. It is higher than the heavens. Your truth reaches to the skies. 
Psalms108:5 God, may you be honored above the heavens. Let your glory be over the whole earth." 
Psalms108:6 Save us. Help us with your powerful right hand, so that those you love may be saved." 
Psalms108:7 God has spoken from his temple. He has said, ""I will win the battle. Then I will divide up the land around Shechem. I will divide up the Valley of Succoth." 
Psalms108:8 Gilead belongs to me. So does the land of Manasseh. Ephraim is the strongest tribe. It is like a helmet for my head. Judah is the royal tribe. It is like a ruler's staff. 
Psalms108:9 Moab serves me like one who washes my feet. I toss my sandal on Edom to show that I own it. I shout to Philistia that I have won the battle. 
Psalms108:10 Who will bring me to the city that has high walls around it? Who will lead me to the land of Edom? 
Psalms108:11 God, isn't it you, even though you have now turned away from us? Isn't it you, even though you don't lead our armies into battle anymore?" 
Psalms108:12 Help us against our enemies. The help people give doesn't amount to anything. 
Psalms108:13 With your help we will win the battle. You will walk all over our enemies. 
Psalms109:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. God, I praise you. Don't remain silent." 
Psalms109:2 Sinful people who lie and cheat have spoken against me. They have used their tongues to tell lies about me. 
Psalms109:3 They gather all around me with their words of hatred. They attack me without any reason. 
Psalms109:4 They bring charges against me, even though I love them and pray for them." 
Psalms109:5 They pay me back with evil for the good things I do. They pay back my love with hatred. 
Psalms109:6 Appoint an evil person to take my enemies to court. Let him stand at their right hand and bring charges against them. 
Psalms109:7 When they are tried, let them be found guilty. May even their prayers judge them." 
Psalms109:8 May their days be few. Let others take their places as leaders. 
Psalms109:9 May their children's fathers die. May their wives become widows. 
Psalms109:10 May their children be driven from their destroyed homes. May they wander around like beggars. 
Psalms109:11 May everything those people own be taken away to pay for what they owe. May strangers rob them of everything they've worked for. 
Psalms109:12 May no one be kind to them or take pity on the children they leave behind. 
Psalms109:13 May their family line come to an end. May their names be forgotten by those who live after them. 
Psalms109:14 May the Lord remember the evil things their fathers have done. May he never erase the sins of their mothers. 
Psalms109:15 May the Lord never forget their sins. Then he won't let people remember those sinners anymore. 
Psalms109:16 They never thought about doing anything kind. Instead, they drove those who were poor and needy to their deaths. They did the same thing to those whose hearts were broken." 
Psalms109:17 They loved to call down curses on others. May their curses come back on them. They didn't find any pleasure in giving anyone their blessing. May no blessing ever come to them. 
Psalms109:18 They called down curses on others as easily as they put on clothes. Cursing was as natural to them as getting a drink of water or putting olive oil on their bodies. 
Psalms109:19 May their curses cover them like coats. May their curses be wrapped around them like a belt forever. 
Psalms109:20 May that be the Lord's way of paying back those who bring charges against me. May it happen to those who say evil things about me. 
Psalms109:21 But Lord and King, be true to your name. Treat me well. Because your love is so good, save me." 
Psalms109:22 I am poor and needy. My heart is wounded deep down inside me. 
Psalms109:23 I fade away like an evening shadow. I'm like a locust that someone brushes off. 
Psalms109:24 My knees are weak because I've gone without food. My body is very thin. 
Psalms109:25 Those who bring charges against me laugh at me. When they see me, they shake their heads at me." 
Psalms109:26 Lord my God, help me. Save me because you love me." 
Psalms109:27 Lord, let my enemies know that you yourself have saved me. You have done it with your own hand." 
Psalms109:28 They may call down a curse on me. But you will give me your blessing. When they attack me, they will be put to shame. But I will be filled with joy." 
Psalms109:29 Those who bring charges against me will be clothed with dishonor. They will be wrapped in shame as if it were a coat. 
Psalms109:30 With my mouth I will continually praise the Lord. I will praise him when all of his people gather for worship. 
Psalms109:31 He stands ready to help those who need it. He saves them from those who have sentenced them to death. 
Psalms110:1 A psalm of David. The Lord says to my Lord, ""Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your control.""" 
Psalms110:2 The Lord will make your royal authority spread out from Zion to other lands. You will rule over your enemies who are all around you. 
Psalms110:3 Your troops will be willing to fight for you on the day of battle. You will be wrapped in holy majesty. Just as the dew falls fresh early in the morning, you will always be young and strong." 
Psalms110:4 The Lord has taken an oath and made a promise. He will not change his mind. He has said, ""You are a priest forever, just like Melchizedek.""" 
Psalms110:5 The Lord is at your right hand. He will crush kings on the day when he is angry. 
Psalms110:6 He will judge the nations. He will pile up dead bodies on the field of battle. He will crush the rulers of the whole earth. 
Psalms110:7 He will drink from a brook along the way and receive new strength. And so he will win the battle. 
Psalms111:1 Praise the Lord. I will praise the Lord with all my heart. I will praise him where honest people gather for worship. 
Psalms111:2 The Lord has done great things. All who take delight in what he has done will spend time thinking about it. 
Psalms111:3 What he does shows his glory and majesty. He will always do what is right. 
Psalms111:4 The Lord causes his miracles to be remembered. He is kind and tender. 
Psalms111:5 He provides food for those who have respect for him. He remembers his covenant forever. 
Psalms111:6 He has shown his people what his power can do. He has given them the lands of other nations. 
Psalms111:7 He is faithful and right in everything he does. All his rules can be trusted. 
Psalms111:8 They will stand firm for ever and ever. They were given by the Lord. He is faithful and honest. 
Psalms111:9 He set his people free. He made a covenant with them that will last forever. His name is holy and wonderful. 
Psalms111:10 If you really want to become wise, you must begin by having respect for the Lord. All those who follow his rules have good understanding. People should praise him forever." 
Psalms112:1 Praise the Lord. Blessed is the one who has respect for the Lord. He finds great delight when he obeys God's commands. 
Psalms112:2 His children will be powerful in the land. Because he is honest, his children will be blessed." 
Psalms112:3 His family will have wealth and riches. He will always be blessed for doing what is right. 
Psalms112:4 Even in the darkness light shines on honest people. It shines on those who are kind and tender and godly. 
Psalms112:5 Good things will come to those who are willing to lend freely. Good things will come to those who are fair in everything they do. 
Psalms112:6 They will always be secure. Those who do what is right will be remembered forever. 
Psalms112:7 They aren't afraid when bad news comes. They stand firm because they trust in the Lord. 
Psalms112:8 Their hearts are secure. They aren't afraid. In the end they will see their enemies destroyed. 
Psalms112:9 They have spread their gifts around to poor people. Their good works continue forever. They will be powerful and honored. 
Psalms112:10 Evil people will see it and be upset. They will grind their teeth and become weaker and weaker. What evil people long to do can't succeed. 
Psalms113:1 Praise the Lord. Praise him, you who serve the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord." 
Psalms113:2 Let us praise the name of the Lord, both now and forever." 
Psalms113:3 From the sunrise in the east to the sunset in the west, may the name of the Lord be praised." 
Psalms113:4 The Lord is honored over all of the nations. His glory reaches to the highest heavens. 
Psalms113:5 Who is like the Lord our God? He sits on his throne in heaven. 
Psalms113:6 He bends down to look at the heavens and the earth. 
Psalms113:7 He raises poor people up from the trash pile. He lifts needy people out of the ashes. 
Psalms113:8 He lets them sit with princes. He lets them sit with the princes of their own people. 
Psalms113:9 He gives children to the woman who doesn't have any children. He makes her a happy mother in her own home. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms114:1 The people of Israel came out of Egypt. The people of Jacob left a land where a different language was spoken. 
Psalms114:2 Then Judah became the holy place where God lived. Israel became the land he ruled over. 
Psalms114:3 The Red Sea saw him and parted. The Jordan River stopped flowing. 
Psalms114:4 The mountains leaped like rams. The hills skipped like lambs. 
Psalms114:5 Red Sea, why did you part? Jordan River, why did you stop flowing?" 
Psalms114:6 Why did you mountains leap like rams? Why did you hills skip like lambs? 
Psalms114:7 Earth, tremble with fear when the Lord comes. Tremble when the God of Jacob is near." 
Psalms114:8 He turned the rock into a pool. He turned the hard rock into springs of water. 
Psalms115:1 Lord, may glory be given to you, not to us. You are loving and faithful." 
Psalms115:2 Why do the nations ask, ""Where is their God?""" 
Psalms115:3 Our God is in heaven. He does anything he wants to do. 
Psalms115:4 But the statues of their gods are made out of silver and gold. They are made by the hands of men. 
Psalms115:5 They have mouths, but they can't speak. They have eyes, but they can't see." 
Psalms115:6 They have ears, but they can't hear. They have noses, but they can't smell." 
Psalms115:7 They have hands, but they can't feel. They have feet, but they can't walk. They have throats, but they can't say anything." 
Psalms115:8 Those who make statues of gods will be like them. So will all those who trust in them. 
Psalms115:9 People of Israel, trust in the Lord. He helps you. He is like a shield that keeps you safe." 
Psalms115:10 Priests of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He helps you. He is like a shield that keeps you safe." 
Psalms115:11 You who have respect for the Lord, trust in him. He helps you. He is like a shield that keeps you safe." 
Psalms115:12 The Lord remembers us and will bless us. He will bless the people of Israel. He will bless the priests of Aaron. 
Psalms115:13 The Lord will bless those who have respect for him. He will bless important and unimportant people alike. 
Psalms115:14 May the Lord give you many children. May he give them to you and to your children after you. 
Psalms115:15 May the Lord bless you. He is the Maker of heaven and earth. 
Psalms115:16 The highest heavens belong to the Lord. But he has given the earth to human beings. 
Psalms115:17 Dead people don't praise the Lord. Those who lie quietly in the grave don't praise him. 
Psalms115:18 But we who are alive praise the Lord, both now and forever. Praise the Lord." 
Psalms116:1 I love the Lord, because he heard my voice. He heard my cry for his favor." 
Psalms116:2 Because he paid attention to me, I will call out to him as long as I live." 
Psalms116:3 The ropes of death were wrapped around me. The horrors of the grave came over me. I was overcome by trouble and sorrow. 
Psalms116:4 Then I called out to the Lord. I cried out, ""Lord, save me!""" 
Psalms116:5 The Lord is holy and kind. Our God is full of tender love. 
Psalms116:6 The Lord takes care of those who are as helpless as children. When I was in great need, he saved me." 
Psalms116:7 I said to myself, ""Be calm. The Lord has been good to me.""" 
Psalms116:8 Lord, you have saved me from death. You have dried the tears from my eyes. You have kept me from tripping and falling." 
Psalms116:9 So now I can enjoy life here with you while I'm still living. 
Psalms116:10 I believed in you even when I said to myself, ""I'm in great pain.""" 
Psalms116:11 When I was terrified, I said to myself, ""No one tells the truth.""" 
Psalms116:12 The Lord has been so good to me! How can I ever pay him back? 
Psalms116:13 I will bring an offering of wine to the Lord and thank him for saving me. I will worship him. 
Psalms116:14 In front of all of the Lord's people, I will do what I promised him." 
Psalms116:15 The Lord pays special attention when his faithful people die. 
Psalms116:16 Lord, I serve you. I serve you just as my mother did. You have set me free from the chains of my suffering." 
Psalms116:17 Lord, I will sacrifice a thank offering to you. I will worship you." 
Psalms116:18 In front of all of the Lord's people, I will do what I promised him." 
Psalms116:19 I will keep my promise in the courtyards of the Lord's temple. I will keep my promise in Jerusalem itself. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms117:1 All you nations, praise the Lord. All you people on earth, praise him." 
Psalms117:2 Great is his love for us. The Lord is faithful forever. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms118:1 Give thanks to the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms118:2 Let the people of Israel say, ""His faithful love continues forever.""" 
Psalms118:3 Let the priests of Aaron say, ""His faithful love continues forever.""" 
Psalms118:4 Let those who have respect for the Lord say, ""His faithful love continues forever.""" 
Psalms118:5 When I was in great pain, I cried out to the Lord. He answered me and set me free." 
Psalms118:6 The Lord is with me. I will not be afraid. What can mere men do to me? 
Psalms118:7 The Lord is with me. He helps me. I will win the battle over my enemies. 
Psalms118:8 It is better to go to the Lord for safety than to trust in mere men. 
Psalms118:9 It is better to go to the Lord for safety than to trust in human leaders. 
Psalms118:10 The nations were all around me. But by the Lord's power I destroyed them. 
Psalms118:11 They were around me on every side. But by the Lord's power I destroyed them. 
Psalms118:12 They attacked me like large numbers of bees. But they died out as quickly as burning thorns. By the Lord's power I destroyed them. 
Psalms118:13 I was pushed back. I was about to be killed. But the Lord helped me. 
Psalms118:14 The Lord gives me strength. I sing about him. He has saved me. 
Psalms118:15 Shouts of joy ring out in the tents of godly people. They praise him for his help in battle. They shout, ""The Lord's powerful right hand has done mighty things!" 
Psalms118:16 The Lord's powerful right hand has won the battle! The Lord's powerful right hand has done mighty things! 
Psalms118:17 I will not die. I will live. I will talk about what the Lord has done. 
Psalms118:18 The Lord has really punished me. But he didn't let me die. 
Psalms118:19 Open the gates of the temple for me. I will enter and give thanks to the Lord. 
Psalms118:20 This is the gate of the Lord. Only those who do what is right can go through it. 
Psalms118:21 Lord, I will give thanks to you, because you answered me. You have saved me." 
Psalms118:22 The stone the builders didn't accept has become the most important stone of all. 
Psalms118:23 The Lord has done it. It is wonderful in our eyes. 
Psalms118:24 The Lord has done it on this day. Let us be joyful and glad in it. 
Psalms118:25 Lord, save us. Lord, give us success." 
Psalms118:26 Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. From the temple of the Lord we bless you. 
Psalms118:27 The Lord is God. He has made the light of his favor shine on us. Take branches in your hands. Join in the march on the day of the feast. March up to the corners of the altar. 
Psalms118:28 You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, and I will honor you." 
Psalms118:29 Give thanks to the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms119:1 Aleph Blessed are those who live without blame. They live in keeping with the law of the Lord. 
Psalms119:2 Blessed are those who obey his covenant laws. They trust in him with all their hearts. 
Psalms119:3 They don't do anything wrong. They live as he wants them to live. 
Psalms119:4 You have given me rules that I must obey completely. 
Psalms119:5 I hope I will always stand firm in following your orders. 
Psalms119:6 Then I won't be put to shame when I think about all of your commands. 
Psalms119:7 I will praise you with an honest heart as I learn about how fair your decisions are. 
Psalms119:8 I will obey your orders. Please don't leave me all alone. Beth 
Psalms119:9 How can a young person keep his life pure? By living in keeping with your word. 
Psalms119:10 I trust in you with all my heart. Don't let me wander away from your commands. 
Psalms119:11 I have hidden your word in my heart so that I won't sin against you. 
Psalms119:12 Lord, I give praise to you. Teach me your orders." 
Psalms119:13 With my lips I talk about all of the decisions you have made. 
Psalms119:14 Following your covenant laws gives me joy just as great riches give joy to others. 
Psalms119:15 I spend time thinking about your rules. I consider how you want me to live. 
Psalms119:16 I take delight in your orders. I won't fail to obey your word. Gimel 
Psalms119:17 Be good to me, and I will live. I will obey your word." 
Psalms119:18 Open my eyes so that I can see the wonderful truths in your law. 
Psalms119:19 I'm a stranger on earth. Don't hide your commands from me. 
Psalms119:20 My heart is filled with longing for your laws at all times. 
Psalms119:21 You correct proud people. They are under your curse. They wander away from your commands. 
Psalms119:22 I obey your covenant laws. So don't let evil people laugh at me or hate me. 
Psalms119:23 Even if rulers sit together and tell lies about me, I will spend time thinking about your orders." 
Psalms119:24 Your covenant laws are my delight. They give me wise advice. Daleth 
Psalms119:25 I lie in the dust. I'm about to die. Keep me alive as you have promised. 
Psalms119:26 I told you how I've lived, and you gave me your answer. Teach me your orders." 
Psalms119:27 Help me understand what your rules can teach me. Then I'll spend time thinking about the miracles you have done. 
Psalms119:28 My sadness has worn me out. Give me strength as you have promised. 
Psalms119:29 Keep me from cheating and telling lies. Be kind and teach me your law. 
Psalms119:30 I have chosen to be faithful to you. I put my trust in your laws. 
Psalms119:31 Lord, I'm careful to obey your covenant laws. Don't let me be put to shame." 
Psalms119:32 I am quick to follow your commands, because you have set my heart free. He" 
Psalms119:33 Lord, teach me to follow your orders. Then I will obey them to the very end." 
Psalms119:34 Help me understand your law. Then I will follow it and obey it with all my heart. 
Psalms119:35 Teach me to live as you command, because that makes me very happy." 
Psalms119:36 Make me want to follow your covenant laws instead of wanting to gain things only for myself. 
Psalms119:37 Turn my eyes away from things that are worthless. Keep me alive as you have promised. 
Psalms119:38 Keep your promise to me. Then other people will have respect for you. 
Psalms119:39 Please don't let me be put to shame. Your laws are good. 
Psalms119:40 I really want to follow your rules. Keep me alive, because you do what is right. Waw" 
Psalms119:41 Lord, show me your faithful love. Save me as you have promised." 
Psalms119:42 Then I will answer those who make fun of me, because I trust in your word." 
Psalms119:43 Help me always to tell the truth about how faithful you are. I have put my hope in your laws. 
Psalms119:44 I will always obey your law, for ever and ever." 
Psalms119:45 I will lead a full and happy life, because I've tried to obey your rules." 
Psalms119:46 I will talk about your covenant laws to kings. I will not be put to shame. 
Psalms119:47 I take delight in obeying your commands because I love them. 
Psalms119:48 I praise your commands, and I love them. I spend time thinking about your orders. Zayin" 
Psalms119:49 Remember what you have said to me. You have given me hope. 
Psalms119:50 Even when I suffer, I am comforted because you promised to keep me alive." 
Psalms119:51 Proud people are always making fun of me. But I don't turn away from your law. 
Psalms119:52 Lord, I remember the laws you gave long ago. I find comfort in them." 
Psalms119:53 I am very angry because evil people have turned away from your law. 
Psalms119:54 No matter where I live, I sing about your orders." 
Psalms119:55 Lord, during the night I remember who you are. That's why I keep your law." 
Psalms119:56 I have really done my best to obey your rules. Heth 
Psalms119:57 Lord, you are everything I need. I have promised to obey your words." 
Psalms119:58 I have looked to you with all my heart. Be kind to me as you have promised. 
Psalms119:59 I have thought about the way I live. And I have decided to follow your covenant laws. 
Psalms119:60 I won't waste any time. I will be quick to obey your commands. 
Psalms119:61 Evil people may tie me up with ropes. But I won't forget to obey your law. 
Psalms119:62 At midnight I get up to give you thanks because your decisions are very fair. 
Psalms119:63 I'm a friend to everyone who has respect for you. I'm a friend to everyone who follows your rules. 
Psalms119:64 Lord, the earth is filled with your love. Teach me your orders. Teth" 
Psalms119:65 Lord, be good to me as you have promised." 
Psalms119:66 Increase my knowledge and give me good sense, because I believe in your commands." 
Psalms119:67 Before I went through suffering, I went down the wrong path. But now I obey your word." 
Psalms119:68 You are good, and what you do is good. Teach me your orders." 
Psalms119:69 Proud people have spread lies about me and have taken away my good name. But I follow your rules with all my heart. 
Psalms119:70 Their hearts are hard and stubborn. They don't feel anything. But I take delight in your law. 
Psalms119:71 It was good for me to suffer. That's what helped me to understand your orders. 
Psalms119:72 The law you gave is worth more to me than thousands of pieces of silver and gold. Yodh 
Psalms119:73 You made me and formed me with your own hands. Give me understanding so that I can learn your commands. 
Psalms119:74 May those who have respect for you be filled with joy when they see me. I have put my hope in your word. 
Psalms119:75 Lord, I know that your laws are right. You were faithful to your promise when you made me suffer." 
Psalms119:76 May your faithful love comfort me as you have promised me. 
Psalms119:77 Show me your tender love so that I can live. I take delight in your law. 
Psalms119:78 Proud people have treated me badly without any reason. May they be put to shame. I will spend time thinking about your rules. 
Psalms119:79 May those who have respect for you come to me. Then I can teach them your covenant laws. 
Psalms119:80 May my heart be without blame as I follow your orders. Then I won't be put to shame. Kaph 
Psalms119:81 I deeply long for you to save me. I have put my hope in your word. 
Psalms119:82 My eyes grow tired looking for what you have promised. I say, ""When will you comfort me?""" 
Psalms119:83 I'm as useless as a wineskin that smoke has dried up. But I don't forget to follow your orders. 
Psalms119:84 How long do I have to wait? When will you punish those who attack me? 
Psalms119:85 Proud people do what is against your law. They dig pits for me to fall into. 
Psalms119:86 All of your commands can be trusted. Help me, because people attack me without any reason." 
Psalms119:87 They almost wiped me off the face of the earth. But I have not turned away from your rules. 
Psalms119:88 Keep me alive, because you love me. Then I will obey the covenant laws you have given. Lamedh" 
Psalms119:89 Lord, your word lasts forever. It stands firm in the heavens." 
Psalms119:90 You will be faithful for all time to come. You made the earth, and it continues to exist." 
Psalms119:91 Your laws continue to this very day, because all things serve you." 
Psalms119:92 If I had not taken delight in your law, I would have died because of my suffering." 
Psalms119:93 I will never forget your rules. You have kept me alive, because I obey them." 
Psalms119:94 Save me, because I belong to you. I've tried to obey your rules." 
Psalms119:95 Sinful people are waiting to destroy me. But I will spend time thinking about your covenant laws. 
Psalms119:96 I've learned that everything has its limits. But your commands are perfect. They are always there when I need them. Mem 
Psalms119:97 Lord, I really love your law! All day long I spend time thinking about it." 
Psalms119:98 Your commands make me wiser than my enemies, because your commands are always in my heart." 
Psalms119:99 I know more than all of my teachers do, because I spend time thinking about your covenant laws." 
Psalms119:100 I understand more than the elders do, because I obey your rules." 
Psalms119:101 I've kept my feet from every path that sinners take so that I might obey your word. 
Psalms119:102 I haven't turned away from your laws, because you yourself have taught me." 
Psalms119:103 Your words are very sweet to my taste! They are sweeter than honey to me. 
Psalms119:104 I gain understanding from your rules. So I hate every path that sinners take. Nun 
Psalms119:105 Your word is like a lamp that shows me the way. It is like a light that guides me. 
Psalms119:106 I have taken an oath. I have promised to follow your laws, because they are right." 
Psalms119:107 I have suffered very much. Lord, keep me alive as you have promised." 
Psalms119:108 Lord, accept the praise I freely give you. Teach me your laws." 
Psalms119:109 I keep putting my life in danger. But I won't forget to obey your law. 
Psalms119:110 Evil people have set a trap for me. But I haven't wandered away from your rules. 
Psalms119:111 Your covenant laws are your gift to me forever. They fill my heart with joy. 
Psalms119:112 I have decided to obey your orders to the very end. Samekh 
Psalms119:113 I hate people who can't make up their minds. But I love your law. 
Psalms119:114 You are my place of safety. You are like a shield that keeps me safe. I have put my hope in your word. 
Psalms119:115 Get away from me, you who do evil! Then I can do what my God commands me to do." 
Psalms119:116 Keep me going as you have promised. Then I will live. Don't let me lose all hope. 
Psalms119:117 Take good care of me, and I will be saved. I will always honor your orders." 
Psalms119:118 You turn your back on all those who wander away from your orders. They lie and cheat, but it doesn't amount to anything." 
Psalms119:119 You throw away all of the sinners on earth as if they were trash. So I love your covenant laws. 
Psalms119:120 My body trembles because I have respect for you. I have great respect for your laws. Ayin 
Psalms119:121 I have done what is right and fair. So don't leave me to those who beat me down. 
Psalms119:122 Make sure that everything goes well with me. Don't let proud people beat me down. 
Psalms119:123 My eyes grow tired as I look to you to save me. Please save me as you have promised. 
Psalms119:124 Be good to me, because you love me. Teach me your orders." 
Psalms119:125 I serve you. Help me to understand what is right. Then I will understand your covenant laws. 
Psalms119:126 Lord, it's time for you to act. People are breaking your law." 
Psalms119:127 I love your commands more than gold. I love them more than pure gold. 
Psalms119:128 I consider all of your rules to be right. So I hate every path that sinners take. Pe 
Psalms119:129 Your covenant laws are wonderful. So I obey them. 
Psalms119:130 When your words are made clear, they bring light. They bring understanding to childish people." 
Psalms119:131 I open my mouth and pant like a dog, because I long to know your commands." 
Psalms119:132 Turn to me and show me your favor. That's what you've always done for those who love you. 
Psalms119:133 Teach me how to live as you have promised. Don't let any sin be my master. 
Psalms119:134 Set me free from men who beat me down. Then I will obey your rules. 
Psalms119:135 Let your face smile on me with favor. Teach me your orders. 
Psalms119:136 Streams of tears flow from my eyes, because people don't obey your law. Tsadhe" 
Psalms119:137 Lord, you do what is fair. And your laws are right." 
Psalms119:138 The laws you have made are fair. They can be completely trusted. 
Psalms119:139 My anger is wearing me out, because my enemies don't pay any attention to your words." 
Psalms119:140 Your promises have proved to be true. I love them. 
Psalms119:141 I'm not important. People look down on me. But I don't forget to obey your rules. 
Psalms119:142 You always do what is right. And your law is true. 
Psalms119:143 I've had my share of trouble and suffering. But I take delight in your commands. 
Psalms119:144 Your covenant laws are always right. Help me to understand them. Then I will live. Qoph 
Psalms119:145 Lord, I call out to you with all my heart. Answer me, and I will obey your orders." 
Psalms119:146 I call out to you. Save me, and I will keep your covenant laws." 
Psalms119:147 I get up before the sun rises. I cry out for help. I've put my hope in your word. 
Psalms119:148 My eyes stay open all night long. I spend my time thinking about your promises. 
Psalms119:149 Listen to me, because you love me. Lord, keep me alive as you have promised." 
Psalms119:150 Those who think up evil plans are near. They have wandered far away from your law. 
Psalms119:151 But Lord, you are near. All your commands are true." 
Psalms119:152 Long ago I learned from your covenant laws that you made them to last forever. Resh 
Psalms119:153 Look at how I'm suffering! Save me, because I haven't forgotten to obey your law." 
Psalms119:154 Stand up for me and set me free. Keep me alive as you have promised. 
Psalms119:155 Those who are evil are far from being saved. They don't want to obey your orders. 
Psalms119:156 Lord, you have deep concern for me. Keep me alive as you have promised." 
Psalms119:157 Many enemies attack me. But I haven't turned away from your covenant laws. 
Psalms119:158 I get very angry when I see people who aren't faithful to you. They don't obey your word. 
Psalms119:159 See how I love your rules! Lord, keep me alive, because you love me." 
Psalms119:160 All your words are true. All your laws are right. They last forever. Sin and Shin 
Psalms119:161 Rulers attack me without any reason. But my heart trembles because of your word. 
Psalms119:162 I'm filled with joy because of your promise. It's like finding a great fortune. 
Psalms119:163 I hate lies with a deep hatred. But I love your law. 
Psalms119:164 Seven times a day I praise you for your laws, because they are right." 
Psalms119:165 Those who love your law enjoy great peace. Nothing can make them trip and fall. 
Psalms119:166 Lord, I wait for you to save me. I follow your commands." 
Psalms119:167 I obey your covenant laws, because I love them greatly." 
Psalms119:168 I obey your rules and your covenant laws, because you know all about how I live. Taw" 
Psalms119:169 Lord, may you hear my cry. Give me understanding, just as you said you would." 
Psalms119:170 May you hear my prayer. Save me, just as you promised." 
Psalms119:171 May my lips pour out praise to you, because you teach me your orders." 
Psalms119:172 May my tongue sing about your word, because all of your commands are right." 
Psalms119:173 May your hand be ready to help me, because I have chosen to obey your rules." 
Psalms119:174 Lord, I long for you to save me. I take delight in your law." 
Psalms119:175 Let me live so that I can praise you. May your laws keep me going. 
Psalms119:176 Like a lost sheep, I've gone down the wrong path. Come and look for me, because I haven't forgotten to obey your commands." 
Psalms120:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. I call out to the Lord when I'm in trouble, and he answers me." 
Psalms120:2 Lord, save me from people whose lips tell lies. Save me from people whose tongues don't tell the truth." 
Psalms120:3 What will the Lord do to you, you lying tongue? And what more will he do?" 
Psalms120:4 He will punish you with the sharp arrows of a soldier. He will punish you with burning wood from a desert tree. 
Psalms120:5 How terrible it is for me to live in the tents of the people of Meshech! How terrible to live in the tents of the people of Kedar! 
Psalms120:6 I have lived too long among those who hate peace. 
Psalms120:7 I want peace. But when I speak, they want war." 
Psalms121:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. I look up to the hills. Where does my help come from? 
Psalms121:2 My help comes from the Lord. He is the Maker of heaven and earth. 
Psalms121:3 He won't let your foot slip. He who watches over you won't get tired. 
Psalms121:4 In fact, he who watches over Israel won't get tired or go to sleep." 
Psalms121:5 The Lord watches over you. The Lord is like a shade tree at your right hand. 
Psalms121:6 The sun won't harm you during the day. The moon won't harm you during the night. 
Psalms121:7 The Lord will keep you from every kind of harm. He will watch over your life. 
Psalms121:8 The Lord will watch over your life no matter where you go, both now and forever." 
Psalms122:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. A psalm of David. I was very glad when they said to me, ""Let us go up to the house of the Lord.""" 
Psalms122:2 Jerusalem, our feet are standing inside your gates." 
Psalms122:3 Jerusalem is built like a city where everything is close together. 
Psalms122:4 The tribes of the Lord go there to praise his name. They do it in keeping with the law he gave to Israel. 
Psalms122:5 The thrones of the family line of David are there. That's where the people are judged. 
Psalms122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Say, ""May those who love you be secure." 
Psalms122:7 May there be peace inside your walls. May your people be kept safe. 
Psalms122:8 I'm concerned for my family and friends. So I say to Jerusalem, ""May you enjoy peace.""" 
Psalms122:9 I'm concerned about the house of the Lord our God. So I pray that things will go well with Jerusalem. 
Psalms123:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. I look up and pray to you. Your throne is in heaven. 
Psalms123:2 Slaves depend on their masters. Maids depend on the women they work for. In the same way, we depend on the Lord our God. We wait for him to show us his favor." 
Psalms123:3 Lord, show us your favor. Show us your favor, because people have made so much fun of us." 
Psalms123:4 We have had to put up with a lot from those who are proud. They were always laughing at us. 
Psalms124:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. A psalm of David. Here is what Israel should say. Suppose the Lord had not been on our side. 
Psalms124:2 Suppose the Lord had not been on our side when our enemies attacked us. 
Psalms124:3 Suppose he had not been on our side when their anger blazed out against us. Then they would have swallowed us alive. 
Psalms124:4 They would have been like a flood that drowned us. They would have swept over us like a rushing river. 
Psalms124:5 They would have washed us away like a swollen stream. 
Psalms124:6 Give praise to the Lord. He has not let our enemies chew us up. 
Psalms124:7 We have escaped like a bird from a hunter's trap. The trap has been broken, and we have escaped." 
Psalms124:8 Our help comes from the Lord. He is the Maker of heaven and earth. 
Psalms125:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion. They will always be secure. They will last forever. 
Psalms125:2 Like the mountains around Jerusalem, the Lord is all around his people both now and forever." 
Psalms125:3 Evil people will not always rule the land the Lord gave to those who do right. If they did, those who do right might do what is evil." 
Psalms125:4 Lord, do good to those who are good. Do good to those whose hearts are honest." 
Psalms125:5 But what about those who have taken paths that are crooked? The Lord will drive them out, along with those who do what is evil. May Israel enjoy peace." 
Psalms126:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. Our enemies took us away from Zion. But when the Lord brought us home, it seemed like a dream to us." 
Psalms126:2 Our mouths were filled with laughter. Our tongues sang with joy. Then the people of other nations said, ""The Lord has done great things for them.""" 
Psalms126:3 The Lord has done great things for us. And we are filled with joy. 
Psalms126:4 Lord, bless us with great success again, as rain makes streams flow in the Negev Desert." 
Psalms126:5 Those who cry as they plant their crops will sing with joy when they gather them in. 
Psalms126:6 Those who go out sobbing as they carry seeds to plant will come back singing with joy. They will bring the new crop back with them. 
Psalms127:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. A psalm of Solomon. If the Lord doesn't build a house, the work of its builders is useless. If the Lord doesn't watch over a city, it's useless for those on guard duty to stand watch over it." 
Psalms127:2 It's useless for you to work from early morning until late at night just to get food to eat. God provides for those he loves even while they sleep. 
Psalms127:3 Children are a gift from the Lord. They are a reward from him. 
Psalms127:4 Children who are born to people when they are young are like arrows in the hands of a soldier. 
Psalms127:5 Blessed are those who have many children. They won't be put to shame when they go up against their enemies in court. 
Psalms128:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. Blessed are all those who have respect for the Lord. They live as he wants them to live. 
Psalms128:2 Your work will give you what you need. Blessings and good things will come to you. 
Psalms128:3 As a vine bears a lot of fruit, so your wife will have many children by you. They will sit around your table like young olive trees." 
Psalms128:4 Only a man who has respect for the Lord will be blessed like that. 
Psalms128:5 May the Lord bless you from Zion. May you enjoy the good things that come to Jerusalem all the days of your life. 
Psalms128:6 May you live to see your grandchildren. May Israel enjoy peace. 
Psalms129:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. Here is what Israel should say. Many times my enemies have beaten me down ever since I was a young nation. 
Psalms129:2 Many times my enemies have beaten me down ever since I was a young nation, but they haven't won the battle." 
Psalms129:3 They have made deep wounds in my back. It looks like a field a farmer has plowed. 
Psalms129:4 The Lord does what is right. Sinners had tied me up with ropes. But the Lord has set me free. 
Psalms129:5 May all those who hate Zion be driven back in shame. 
Psalms129:6 May they be like grass that grows on the roof of a house. It dries up before it can grow. 
Psalms129:7 There isn't enough of it to fill a person's hand. There isn't enough to tie up and carry away. 
Psalms129:8 May no one who passes by say to those who hate Zion, ""May the blessing of the Lord be on you. We bless you in the name of the Lord.""" 
Psalms130:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. Lord, I cry out to you because I'm suffering so deeply." 
Psalms130:2 Lord, listen to me. Pay attention to my cry for your favor." 
Psalms130:3 Lord, suppose you kept a record of sins. Lord, who then wouldn't be found guilty?" 
Psalms130:4 But you forgive. So people have respect for you. 
Psalms130:5 With all my heart I wait for the Lord to help me. I put my hope in his word. 
Psalms130:6 I wait for the Lord to help me. I wait with more longing than those on guard duty wait for the morning. I'll say it again. I wait with more longing than those on guard duty wait for the morning. 
Psalms130:7 Israel, put your hope in the Lord, because the Lord's love never fails. He sets his people completely free." 
Psalms130:8 He himself will set Israel free from all of their sins. 
Psalms131:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. A psalm of David. Lord, my heart isn't proud. My eyes aren't proud either. I don't concern myself with important matters. I don't concern myself with things that are too wonderful for me." 
Psalms131:2 I have made myself calm and content like a young child in its mother's arms. Deep down inside me, I am as content as a young child." 
Psalms131:3 Israel, put your hope in the Lord both now and forever." 
Psalms132:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. Lord, remember David and all of the hard times he went through." 
Psalms132:2 Lord, he took an oath. Mighty One of Jacob, he made a promise to you." 
Psalms132:3 He said, ""I won't enter my house or go to bed." 
Psalms132:4 I won't let my eyes sleep. I won't close my eyelids 
Psalms132:5 until I find a place for the Lord. I want to build a house for the Mighty One of Jacob. 
Psalms132:6 Here are the words we heard in Ephrathah. We heard them again in the fields of Kiriath Jearim. 
Psalms132:7 Let us go to the Lord's house. Let us worship at his feet. 
Psalms132:8 Lord, rise up and come to your resting place. Come in together with the ark. It's the sign of your power." 
Psalms132:9 May your priests put on godliness as if it were their clothes. May your faithful people sing with joy. 
Psalms132:10 In honor of your servant David, don't turn your back on your anointed king." 
Psalms132:11 The Lord took an oath and made a promise to David. It is a firm promise that he will never break. He said, ""After you die, I will place one of your own sons on your throne." 
Psalms132:12 If your sons keep my covenant and the laws I teach them, then their sons will sit on your throne for ever and ever.""" 
Psalms132:13 The Lord has chosen Zion. That's the place where he wants to live. 
Psalms132:14 He has said, ""This will be my resting place for ever and ever. Here I will sit on my throne, because that's what I want." 
Psalms132:15 I will greatly bless Zion with everything it needs. I will give plenty of food to the poor people living there. 
Psalms132:16 I will put salvation on its priests as if it were their clothes. God's faithful people will always sing with joy. 
Psalms132:17 Here in Jerusalem I will raise up a mighty king from the family of David. I will set up the lamp of David's kingdom for my anointed king. Its flame will burn brightly forever. 
Psalms132:18 I will put shame on his enemies as if it were their clothes. But the royal crown he wears will shine with glory. 
Psalms133:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. A psalm of David. How good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in peace! 
Psalms133:2 It's like the special olive oil that was poured on Aaron's head. It ran down on his beard and on the collar of his robe. 
Psalms133:3 It's as if the dew of Mount Hermon were falling on Mount Zion. There the Lord gives his blessing. He gives life that never ends. 
Psalms134:1 A song for those who go up to Jerusalem to worship the Lord. All of you who serve the Lord, praise the Lord. All of you who serve at night in the house of the Lord, praise him." 
Psalms134:2 Lift up your hands in the temple and praise the Lord. 
Psalms134:3 May the Lord bless you from Zion. He is the Maker of heaven and earth. 
Psalms135:1 Praise the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. You who serve the Lord, praise him." 
Psalms135:2 You who serve in the house of the Lord, praise him. You who serve in the courtyards of the temple of our God, praise him." 
Psalms135:3 Praise the Lord, because he is good. Sing praise to his name, because that is pleasant." 
Psalms135:4 The Lord has chosen the people of Jacob to be his own. He has chosen Israel to be his special treasure. 
Psalms135:5 I know that the Lord is great. I know that our Lord is greater than all gods. 
Psalms135:6 The Lord does anything he wants to do in the heavens and on the earth. He does it even in the deepest parts of the oceans. 
Psalms135:7 He makes clouds rise from one end of the earth to the other. He sends lightning with the rain. He brings the wind out of his storerooms. 
Psalms135:8 He killed the oldest son of each family in Egypt. He struck down the oldest males that were born to people and animals. 
Psalms135:9 He did miraculous signs in Egypt. He did wonders against Pharaoh and everyone who served him. 
Psalms135:10 He destroyed many nations. He killed mighty kings. 
Psalms135:11 He killed Sihon, the king of the Amorites, and Og, the king of Bashan. He killed all of the kings of Canaan." 
Psalms135:12 He gave their land as a gift to his people Israel. 
Psalms135:13 Lord, your name continues forever. Lord, your fame will last for all time to come." 
Psalms135:14 When the Lord hands down his sentence, it will be in his people's favor. He will show deep concern for those who serve him." 
Psalms135:15 The statues of the gods of the nations are made of silver and gold. They are made by the hands of men. 
Psalms135:16 They have mouths, but they can't speak. They have eyes, but they can't see." 
Psalms135:17 They have ears, but they can't hear. They have mouths, but they can't breathe." 
Psalms135:18 Those who make statues of gods will be like them. So will all those who trust in them. 
Psalms135:19 People of Israel, praise the Lord. Priests of Aaron, praise the Lord." 
Psalms135:20 Tribe of Levi, praise the Lord. You who have respect for the Lord, praise him." 
Psalms135:21 Give praise to the Lord in Zion. Give praise to the One who lives in Jerusalem. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms136:1 Give thanks to the Lord, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms136:2 Give thanks to the greatest God of all. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:3 Give thanks to the most powerful Lord of all. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:4 Give thanks to the only one who can do great miracles. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:5 By his understanding he made the heavens. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:6 He spread out the earth on the waters. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:7 He made the great lights in the sky. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:8 He made the sun to rule over the day. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:9 He made the moon and stars to rule over the night. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:10 Give thanks to the One who killed the oldest son of each family in Egypt. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:11 He brought the people of Israel out of Egypt. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:12 He did it by reaching out his mighty hand and powerful arm. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:13 Give thanks to the One who parted the Red Sea. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:14 He brought Israel through the middle of it. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:15 But he swept Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:16 Give thanks to the One who led his people through the desert. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:17 He killed great kings. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:18 He struck down mighty kings. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:19 He killed Sihon, the king of the Amorites. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms136:20 He killed Og, the king of Bashan. His faithful love continues forever." 
Psalms136:21 He gave their land as a gift. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:22 He gave it as a gift to his servant Israel. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:23 Give thanks to the One who remembered us when things were going badly for us. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:24 He set us free from our enemies. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:25 He gives food to every creature. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms136:26 Give thanks to the God of heaven. His faithful love continues forever. 
Psalms137:1 We were sitting by the rivers of Babylon. We cried when we remembered what had happened to Zion. 
Psalms137:2 On the nearby poplar trees we hung up our harps. 
Psalms137:3 Those who held us as prisoners asked us to sing. Those who enjoyed hurting us ordered us to sing joyful songs. They said, ""Sing one of the songs of Zion to us!""" 
Psalms137:4 How can we sing the songs of the Lord while we are in another land? 
Psalms137:5 Jerusalem, if I forget you, may my right hand never be able to play the harp again." 
Psalms137:6 If I don't remember you, may my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth so I can't sing. May it happen if I don't consider Jerusalem to be my greatest joy." 
Psalms137:7 Lord, remember what the people of Edom did on the day Jerusalem fell. ""Tear it down!"" they cried. ""Tear it down to the ground!""" 
Psalms137:8 People of Babylon, you are sentenced to be destroyed. Happy are those who pay you back for what you have done to us." 
Psalms137:9 Happy are those who grab your babies and smash them against the rocks. 
Psalms138:1 A psalm of David. Lord, I will praise you with all my heart. In front of those who think they are gods I will sing praise to you." 
Psalms138:2 I will bow down facing your holy temple. I will praise your name, because you are loving and faithful. You have honored your name and your word more than anything else." 
Psalms138:3 When I called out to you, you answered me. You made me strong and brave." 
Psalms138:4 Lord, may all of the kings on earth praise you when they hear about what you have promised." 
Psalms138:5 Lord, may they sing about what you have done, because your glory is great." 
Psalms138:6 The Lord is in heaven. But he watches over those who are free of pride. He knows those who are proud and stays far away from them. 
Psalms138:7 Trouble is all around me, but you keep me alive. You reach out your hand to put a stop to the anger of my enemies. With your powerful right hand you save me." 
Psalms138:8 Lord, you will do everything you have planned for me. Lord, your faithful love continues forever. You have done so much for us. Don't stop now." 
Psalms139:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Lord, you have seen what is in my heart. You know all about me." 
Psalms139:2 You know when I sit down and when I get up. You know what I'm thinking even though you are far away. 
Psalms139:3 You know when I go out to work and when I come back home. You know exactly how I live. 
Psalms139:4 Lord, even before I speak a word, you know all about it." 
Psalms139:5 You are all around me. You are behind me and in front of me. You hold me in your power. 
Psalms139:6 I'm amazed at how well you know me. It's more than I can understand. 
Psalms139:7 How can I get away from your Spirit? Where can I go to escape from you? 
Psalms139:8 If I go up to the heavens, you are there. If I lie down in the deepest parts of the earth, you are also there." 
Psalms139:9 Suppose I were to rise with the sun in the east and then cross over to the west where it sinks into the ocean. 
Psalms139:10 Your hand would always be there to guide me. Your right hand would still be holding me close. 
Psalms139:11 Suppose I were to say, ""I'm sure the darkness will hide me. The light around me will become as dark as night.""" 
Psalms139:12 Even that darkness would not be dark to you. The night would shine like the day, because darkness is like light to you." 
Psalms139:13 You created the deepest parts of my being. You put me together inside my mother's body. 
Psalms139:14 How you made me is amazing and wonderful. I praise you for that. What you have done is wonderful. I know that very well. 
Psalms139:15 None of my bones was hidden from you when you made me inside my mother's body. That place was as dark as the deepest parts of the earth. When you were putting me together there," 
Psalms139:16 your eyes saw my body even before it was formed. You planned how many days I would live. You wrote down the number of them in your book before I had lived through even one of them. 
Psalms139:17 God, your thoughts about me are priceless. No one can possibly add them all up." 
Psalms139:18 If I could count them, they would be more than the grains of sand. If I were to fall asleep counting and then wake up, you would still be there with me." 
Psalms139:19 God, I wish you would kill the people who are evil! I wish those murderers would get away from me!" 
Psalms139:20 They are your enemies. They misuse your name. They misuse it for their own evil purposes. 
Psalms139:21 Lord, I really hate those who hate you! I really hate those who rise up against you!" 
Psalms139:22 I have nothing but hatred for them. I consider them to be my enemies. 
Psalms139:23 God, see what is in my heart. Know what is there. Put me to the test. Know what I'm thinking." 
Psalms139:24 See if there's anything in my life you don't like. Help me live in the way that is always right. 
Psalms140:1 For the director of music. A psalm of David. Lord, save me from sinful men. Keep me safe from those who want to hurt me." 
Psalms140:2 They make evil plans in their hearts. They are always starting fights. 
Psalms140:3 Their tongues are as deadly as the tongue of a serpent. The words from their lips are like the poison of a snake. Selah 
Psalms140:4 Lord, keep me out of the hands of sinful people. Keep me safe from men who want to hurt me. They plan to trip me up and make me fall." 
Psalms140:5 Proud people have hidden their traps to catch me. They have spread out their nets. They have set traps for me along my path. Selah 
Psalms140:6 Lord, I say to you, ""You are my God."" Lord, hear my cry for your favor." 
Psalms140:7 Lord and King, you save me because you are strong. You are like a shield that keeps me safe in the day of battle." 
Psalms140:8 Lord, don't give sinners what they want. Don't let their plans succeed. If you do, they will become proud. Selah" 
Psalms140:9 Those who are all around me have caused me trouble by what their lips have said. Let that trouble fall on their own heads. 
Psalms140:10 Let burning coals fall on people like that. May they be thrown into the fire. May they be thrown into muddy pits and never get out. 
Psalms140:11 Don't let men who tell lies about me settle down in the land. May trouble hunt down those who want to hurt me. 
Psalms140:12 I know that the Lord makes sure that poor people are treated fairly. He stands up for those who are in need. 
Psalms140:13 I'm sure that those who do right will praise your name. Those who are honest will live with you. 
Psalms141:1 A psalm of David. Lord, I call out to you. Come quickly to help me. Listen to me when I call out to you." 
Psalms141:2 May my prayer come to you like the sweet smell of incense. When I lift up my hands in prayer, may it be like the evening sacrifice." 
Psalms141:3 Lord, guard my mouth. Keep watch over the door of my lips." 
Psalms141:4 Don't let my heart be drawn to what is evil. Don't let me join men who do evil. They don't do what is right. Don't let me join them and eat their fancy food. 
Psalms141:5 If a person who does what is right were to strike me, it would be an act of kindness. If that person were to correct me, it would be like pouring olive oil on my head. I wouldn't say no to it. But I always pray against the things that sinful people do." 
Psalms141:6 When their rulers are thrown down from the rocky cliffs, those evil people will realize that my words were true." 
Psalms141:7 They will say, ""As clumps of dirt are left from plowing up the ground, so our bones will be scattered near an open grave.""" 
Psalms141:8 But Lord and King, I keep looking to you. I go to you for safety. Don't let me die." 
Psalms141:9 Keep me from the traps of those who do evil. Save me from the traps they have set for me. 
Psalms141:10 Let evil people fall into their own nets. But let me go safely on my way. 
Psalms142:1 A prayer of David when he was in the cave. A maskil. I call out to the Lord. I pray to him for his favor. 
Psalms142:2 I pour out my problem to him. I tell him about my trouble. 
Psalms142:3 When I grow weak, you know what I'm going through. In the path where I walk, people have hidden a trap to catch me." 
Psalms142:4 Look around me, and you will see that no one is concerned about me. I have no place of safety. No one cares whether I live or die." 
Psalms142:5 Lord, I cry out to you. I say, ""You are my place of safety. You are everything I need in this life.""" 
Psalms142:6 Listen to my cry. I am in great need. Save me from those who are chasing me. They are too strong for me. 
Psalms142:7 My troubles are like a prison. Set me free so I can praise your name. Then those who do what is right will gather around me because you have been good to me. 
Psalms143:1 A psalm of David. Lord, hear my prayer. Listen to my cry for your favor. You are faithful and right. Come and help me." 
Psalms143:2 Don't take me to court and judge me, because in your eyes no living person does what is right." 
Psalms143:3 My enemies chase me. They crush me down to the ground. They make me live in darkness like those who died long ago. 
Psalms143:4 So I grow weak. Deep down inside me, I'm afraid." 
Psalms143:5 I remember what happened long ago. I spend time thinking about all of your acts. I consider what your hands have done. 
Psalms143:6 I spread out my hands to you in prayer. I'm thirsty for you, just as dry ground is thirsty for rain. Selah" 
Psalms143:7 Lord, answer me quickly. I'm growing weak. Don't turn your face away from me, or I will be like those who go down into the grave." 
Psalms143:8 In the morning let me hear about your faithful love, because I've put my trust in you. Show me the way I should live, because I pray to you." 
Psalms143:9 Lord, save me from my enemies, because I go to you for safety." 
Psalms143:10 Teach me to do what you want, because you are my God. May your good Spirit lead me on a level path." 
Psalms143:11 Lord, be true to your name. Keep me alive. Because you do what is right, get me out of trouble." 
Psalms143:12 Because your love is faithful, put an end to my enemies. Destroy all of them, because I serve you." 
Psalms144:1 A psalm of David. Give praise to the Lord. He is my rock. He trains my hands for war. He trains my fingers for battle. 
Psalms144:2 He is my loving God. He is like a fort to me. He is my place of safety and the One who saves me. He is like a shield that keeps me safe. I go to him for safety. He brings nations under my control. 
Psalms144:3 Lord, what is a human being that you take care of him? What is a son of man that you think about him?" 
Psalms144:4 His life doesn't last any longer than a breath. His days are like a shadow that quickly disappears. 
Psalms144:5 Lord, open up your heavens and come down. Touch the mountains, and they will pour out smoke." 
Psalms144:6 Send flashes of lightning and scatter my enemies. Shoot your arrows and chase them away. 
Psalms144:7 My enemies are like a mighty flood. Reach down from heaven and save me. Save me from strangers who attack me. 
Psalms144:8 They tell all kinds of lies with their mouths. Even when they make a promise by raising their right hands, they don't mean it." 
Psalms144:9 God, I will sing a new song to you. I will make music to you on a harp that has ten strings." 
Psalms144:10 You are the One who helps kings win battles. You save your servant David from dying by the sword. 
Psalms144:11 Save me. Set me free from strangers who attack me. They tell all kinds of lies with their mouths. Even when they make a promise by raising their right hands, they don't mean it." 
Psalms144:12 While our sons are young, they will be like healthy plants. Our daughters will be like pillars that have been made to decorate a palace." 
Psalms144:13 Our storerooms will be filled with every kind of food. The sheep in our fields will increase by thousands. They will increase by tens of thousands. 
Psalms144:14 Our oxen will pull heavy loads. None of our city walls will be broken down. No one will be carried off as a prisoner. No cries of pain will be heard in our streets. 
Psalms144:15 Blessed are the people about whom all of those things are true. Blessed are the people whose God is the Lord. 
Psalms145:1 A psalm of praise. A psalm of David. I will honor you, my God the King. I will praise your name for ever and ever." 
Psalms145:2 Every day I will praise you. I will praise your name for ever and ever. 
Psalms145:3 Lord, you are great. You are really worthy of praise. No one can completely understand how great you are." 
Psalms145:4 Parents will praise your works to their children. They will tell about your mighty acts. 
Psalms145:5 They will speak about your glorious majesty. I will spend time thinking about your miracles. 
Psalms145:6 They will speak about the powerful and wonderful things you do. I will talk about the great things you have done. 
Psalms145:7 They will celebrate your great goodness. They will sing with joy about your holy acts. 
Psalms145:8 The Lord is gracious. He is kind and tender. He is slow to get angry. He is full of love. 
Psalms145:9 The Lord is good to all. He shows deep concern for everything he has made. 
Psalms145:10 Lord, every living thing you have made will praise you. Your faithful people will praise you." 
Psalms145:11 They will tell about your glorious kingdom. They will speak about your power. 
Psalms145:12 Then all people will know about the mighty things you have done. They will know about the glorious majesty of your kingdom. 
Psalms145:13 Your kingdom is a kingdom that will last forever. Your rule will continue for all time to come. The Lord is faithful and will keep all of his promises. He is loving toward everything he has made. 
Psalms145:14 The Lord takes good care of all those who fall. He lifts up all those who feel helpless. 
Psalms145:15 Every living thing looks to you for food. You give it to them exactly when they need it. 
Psalms145:16 You open your hand and satisfy the needs of every living creature. 
Psalms145:17 The Lord is right in everything he does. He is loving toward everything he has made. 
Psalms145:18 The Lord is ready to help all those who call out to him. He helps those who really mean it when they call out to him. 
Psalms145:19 He satisfies the needs of those who have respect for him. He hears their cry and saves them. 
Psalms145:20 The Lord watches over all those who love him. But he will destroy all sinful people. 
Psalms145:21 I will praise the Lord with my mouth. Let every creature praise his holy name for ever and ever. 
Psalms146:1 Praise the Lord. I will praise the Lord. 
Psalms146:2 I will praise the Lord all my life. I will sing praise to my God as long as I live. 
Psalms146:3 Don't put your trust in human leaders. Don't trust in people. They can't save you. 
Psalms146:4 When they die, they return to the ground. On that very day their plans are bound to fail." 
Psalms146:5 Blessed are those who depend on the God of Jacob for help. Blessed are those who put their hope in the Lord their God. 
Psalms146:6 He is the Maker of heaven and earth and the ocean. He made everything in them. The Lord remains faithful forever. 
Psalms146:7 He stands up for those who are beaten down. He gives food to hungry people. The Lord sets prisoners free. 
Psalms146:8 The Lord gives sight to those who are blind. The Lord lifts up those who feel helpless. The Lord loves those who do what is right. 
Psalms146:9 The Lord watches over the outsiders who live in our land. He takes good care of children whose fathers have died. He also takes good care of widows. But he causes evil people to fail in everything they do. 
Psalms146:10 The Lord rules forever. The God of Zion will rule for all time to come. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms147:1 Praise the Lord. How good it is to sing praises to our God! How pleasant and right it is to praise him! 
Psalms147:2 The Lord builds up Jerusalem. He gathers the scattered people of Israel. 
Psalms147:3 He heals those who have broken hearts. He takes care of their wounds. 
Psalms147:4 He decides how many stars there should be. He gives each one of them a name. 
Psalms147:5 Great is our Lord. His power is mighty. There is no limit to his understanding. 
Psalms147:6 The Lord gives strength to those who aren't proud. But he throws evil people down to the ground. 
Psalms147:7 Sing to the Lord and give thanks to him. Make music to our God on the harp. 
Psalms147:8 He covers the sky with clouds. He supplies the earth with rain. He makes grass grow on the hills. 
Psalms147:9 He provides food for the cattle. He provides for the young ravens when they cry out. 
Psalms147:10 He doesn't take pleasure in the strength of horses. He doesn't take delight in the strong legs of men. 
Psalms147:11 The Lord takes delight in those who have respect for him. They put their hope in his faithful love. 
Psalms147:12 Jerusalem, praise the Lord. Zion, praise your God." 
Psalms147:13 He makes the bars of your gates stronger. He blesses the people who live inside you. 
Psalms147:14 He keeps your borders safe and secure. He satisfies you with the finest wheat. 
Psalms147:15 He sends his command to the earth. His word arrives there quickly. 
Psalms147:16 He spreads the snow like wool. He scatters the frost like ashes. 
Psalms147:17 He throws down his hail like small stones. No one can stand his icy blast. 
Psalms147:18 He gives his command, and the ice melts. He stirs up his winds, and the waters flow." 
Psalms147:19 He has made his word known to the people of Jacob. He has made his laws and rules known to Israel. 
Psalms147:20 He hasn't done that for any other nation. They don't know his laws. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms148:1 Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise him in the heavens above. 
Psalms148:2 Praise him, all his angels. Praise him, all his angels in heaven." 
Psalms148:3 Praise him, sun and moon. Praise him, all you shining stars." 
Psalms148:4 Praise him, you highest heavens. Praise him, you waters above the skies." 
Psalms148:5 Let all of them praise the name of the Lord, because he gave a command and they were created." 
Psalms148:6 He set them in place for ever and ever. He gave them laws they will always have to obey. 
Psalms148:7 Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures and all of the deepest parts of the ocean." 
Psalms148:8 Praise him, lightning and hail, snow and clouds. Praise him, you stormy winds that obey him." 
Psalms148:9 Praise him, all you mountains and hills. Praise him, all you fruit trees and cedar trees." 
Psalms148:10 Praise him, all you wild animals and cattle. Praise him, you small creatures and flying birds." 
Psalms148:11 Praise him, you kings of the earth and all nations. Praise him, all you princes and rulers on earth." 
Psalms148:12 Praise him, young men and young women. Praise him, old people and children." 
Psalms148:13 Let them praise the name of the Lord. His name alone is honored. His glory is higher than the earth and the heavens. 
Psalms148:14 He has given his people a strong king. All of his faithful people praise him for that gift. All of the people of Israel are close to his heart. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms149:1 Praise the Lord. Sing a new song to the Lord. Sing praise to him in the community of his faithful people. 
Psalms149:2 Let Israel be filled with joy because God is their Maker. Let the people of Zion be glad because he is their King. 
Psalms149:3 Let them praise his name with dancing. Let them make music to him with harps and tambourines. 
Psalms149:4 The Lord takes delight in his people. He saves those who aren't proud. He makes them feel like kings. 
Psalms149:5 Let his faithful people be filled with joy because of that honor. Let them sing with joy even when they are lying in bed. 
Psalms149:6 May they praise God with their mouths. May they hold in their hands a sword that has two edges. 
Psalms149:7 Let them pay the nations back. Let them punish the people of the earth. 
Psalms149:8 Let them put the kings of those nations in chains. Let them put their nobles in iron chains. 
Psalms149:9 Let them carry out God's sentence against the nations. That will bring glory to all of his faithful people. Praise the Lord. 
Psalms150:1 Praise the Lord. Praise God in his holy temple. Praise him in his mighty heavens. 
Psalms150:2 Praise him for his powerful acts. Praise him because he is greater than anything else. 
Psalms150:3 Praise him by blowing trumpets. Praise him with harps and lyres. 
Psalms150:4 Praise him with tambourines and dancing. Praise him with stringed instruments and flutes. 
Psalms150:5 Praise him with clashing cymbals. Praise him with clanging cymbals. 
Psalms150:6 Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. 
Proverbs1:1 These are the proverbs of Solomon. He was the son of David and the king of Israel. 
Proverbs1:2 Proverbs teach you wisdom and train you. They help you understand wise sayings. 
Proverbs1:3 They provide you with training and help you live wisely. They lead to what is right and honest and fair. 
Proverbs1:4 They give understanding to childish people. They give knowledge and good sense to those who are young. 
Proverbs1:5 Let wise people listen and add to what they have learned. Let those who understand what is right get guidance. 
Proverbs1:6 What I'm teaching also helps you understand proverbs and stories. It helps you understand the sayings and riddles of those who are wise. 
Proverbs1:7 If you really want to gain knowledge, you must begin by having respect for the Lord. But foolish people hate wisdom and training." 
Proverbs1:8 My son, listen to your father's advice. Don't turn away from your mother's teaching." 
Proverbs1:9 What they teach you will be like a beautiful crown on your head. It will be like a chain to decorate your neck. 
Proverbs1:10 My son, if sinners tempt you, don't give in to them." 
Proverbs1:11 They might say, ""Come along with us. Let's hide and wait to spill someone's blood. Let's catch some harmless people in our trap." 
Proverbs1:12 Let's swallow them alive, as the grave does. Let's swallow them whole, like those who go down into the pit." 
Proverbs1:13 We'll get all kinds of valuable things. We'll fill our houses with what we steal. 
Proverbs1:14 Come and join our gang. We'll share everything we have. 
Proverbs1:15 My son, don't go along with them. Don't even set your feet on their paths." 
Proverbs1:16 They are always in a hurry to sin. They are quick to spill someone's blood. 
Proverbs1:17 How useless it is to spread a net while all the birds are watching! 
Proverbs1:18 Those who hide and wait will spill their own blood. They will be caught in their own trap. 
Proverbs1:19 That's what happens to everyone who goes after money in the wrong way. That kind of money takes away the lives of those who get it. 
Proverbs1:20 Wisdom calls out in the street. She raises her voice in public places. 
Proverbs1:21 At the noisy street corners she cries out. Here is what she says near the gates of the city. 
Proverbs1:22 How long will you childish people love your childish ways? How long will you rude people enjoy making fun of God and others? How long will you foolish people hate knowledge? 
Proverbs1:23 Suppose you had paid attention to my warning. Then I would have poured out my heart to you. I would have told you what I was thinking. 
Proverbs1:24 But you turned away from me when I called out to you. None of you paid attention when I reached out my hand. 
Proverbs1:25 You turned away from all my advice. You wouldn't accept my warning. 
Proverbs1:26 So I will laugh at you when you are in danger. I will make fun of you when hard times come. 
Proverbs1:27 I will laugh when hard times hit you like a storm. I will laugh when danger comes your way like a windstorm. I will make fun of you when suffering and trouble come. 
Proverbs1:28 Then you will call to me. But I won't answer. You will look for me. But you won't find me. 
Proverbs1:29 You hated knowledge. You didn't choose to have respect for the Lord. 
Proverbs1:30 You wouldn't accept my advice. You turned your backs on my warnings. 
Proverbs1:31 So you will eat the fruit of the way you have lived. You will choke on the fruit of what you have planned. 
Proverbs1:32 Childish people go down the wrong path. They will die. Foolish people are satisfied with the way they live. They will be destroyed. 
Proverbs1:33 But those who listen to me will live in safety. They will not worry. They won't be afraid of getting hurt. 
Proverbs2:1 My son, accept my words. Store up my commands inside you." 
Proverbs2:2 Let your ears listen to wisdom. Apply your heart to understanding. 
Proverbs2:3 Call out for the ability to be wise. Cry out for understanding. 
Proverbs2:4 Look for it as you would look for silver. Search for it as you would search for hidden treasure. 
Proverbs2:5 Then you will understand how to have respect for the Lord. You will find out how to know God. 
Proverbs2:6 The Lord gives wisdom. Knowledge and understanding come from his mouth. 
Proverbs2:7 He stores up success for honest people. He is like a shield to those who live without blame. He keeps them safe. 
Proverbs2:8 He guards the path of those who are honest. He watches over the way of his faithful ones. 
Proverbs2:9 You will understand what is right and honest and fair. You will understand the right way to live. 
Proverbs2:10 Your heart will become wise. Your mind will delight in knowledge. 
Proverbs2:11 Good sense will keep you safe. Understanding will guard you. 
Proverbs2:12 Wisdom will save you from the ways of evil men. It will save you from men who twist their words. 
Proverbs2:13 Men like that leave the straight paths to walk in dark ways. 
Proverbs2:14 They take delight in doing what is wrong. They take joy in twisting everything around. 
Proverbs2:15 Their paths are crooked. Their ways are not straight. 
Proverbs2:16 Wisdom will save you from a woman who commits adultery. It will save you from a sinful wife and her tempting words. 
Proverbs2:17 She leaves the man she married when she was young. She breaks the promise she made to her God. 
Proverbs2:18 Her house leads down to death. Her paths lead to the spirits of the dead. 
Proverbs2:19 No one who goes to her comes back or reaches the paths of life. 
Proverbs2:20 You will walk in the ways of good people. You will follow the paths of those who do right. 
Proverbs2:21 Honest people will live in the land. Those who are without blame will remain in it. 
Proverbs2:22 But sinners will be cut off from the land. Those who aren't faithful will be torn away from it. 
Proverbs3:1 My son, do not forget my teaching. Keep my commands in your heart." 
Proverbs3:2 They will help you live for many years. They will bring you success. 
Proverbs3:3 Don't let love and truth ever leave you. Tie them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. 
Proverbs3:4 Then you will find favor and a good name in the eyes of God and people. 
Proverbs3:5 Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Do not depend on your own understanding. 
Proverbs3:6 In all your ways remember him. Then he will make your paths smooth and straight. 
Proverbs3:7 Don't be wise in your own eyes. Have respect for the Lord and avoid evil. 
Proverbs3:8 That will bring health to your body. It will make your bones strong. 
Proverbs3:9 Honor the Lord with your wealth. Give him the first share of all your crops. 
Proverbs3:10 Then your storerooms will be so full they can't hold everything. Your huge jars will spill over with fresh wine. 
Proverbs3:11 My son, do not hate the Lord's training. Do not object when he corrects you." 
Proverbs3:12 The Lord trains those he loves. He is like a father who trains the son he is pleased with. 
Proverbs3:13 Blessed is the one who finds wisdom. Blessed is the one who gains understanding. 
Proverbs3:14 Wisdom pays better than silver does. She earns more than gold does. 
Proverbs3:15 She is worth more than rubies. Nothing you want can compare with her. 
Proverbs3:16 Long life is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor. 
Proverbs3:17 Her ways are pleasant ways. All her paths lead to peace. 
Proverbs3:18 She is a tree of life to those who hold her close. Those who hold on to her will be blessed. 
Proverbs3:19 By wisdom the Lord laid the earth's foundations. Through understanding he set the heavens in place. 
Proverbs3:20 By his knowledge the seas were separated, and the clouds dropped their dew." 
Proverbs3:21 My son, hold on to good sense and the understanding of what is right. Don't let them out of your sight." 
Proverbs3:22 They will be life for you. They will be like a gracious necklace around your neck. 
Proverbs3:23 Then you will go on your way in safety. You will not trip and fall. 
Proverbs3:24 When you lie down, you won't be afraid. When you lie down, you will sleep soundly." 
Proverbs3:25 Don't be terrified by sudden trouble. Don't be afraid when sinners are destroyed. 
Proverbs3:26 The Lord is the one you will trust in. He will keep your feet from being caught in a trap. 
Proverbs3:27 Don't hold back good from those who are worthy of it. Don't hold it back when you can help. 
Proverbs3:28 Suppose you have something to give. Don't say to your neighbor, ""Come back later. I'll give it to you tomorrow.""" 
Proverbs3:29 Don't plan to harm your neighbor. He lives near you and trusts you. 
Proverbs3:30 Don't bring charges against a man without any reason. He has not harmed you. 
Proverbs3:31 Don't be jealous of a man who hurts others. Don't choose any of his ways. 
Proverbs3:32 The Lord really hates sinful people. But he makes honest people his closest friends. 
Proverbs3:33 The Lord puts a curse on the houses of sinners. But he blesses the homes of those who do what is right. 
Proverbs3:34 He laughs at proud people who make fun of others. But he gives grace to those who are not proud. 
Proverbs3:35 Wise people receive honor. But the Lord puts foolish people to shame. 
Proverbs4:1 My children, listen to a father's teaching. Pay attention and gain understanding." 
Proverbs4:2 I give you good advice. So don't turn away from what I teach you. 
Proverbs4:3 I was once a young boy in my father's house. I was my mother's only child. 
Proverbs4:4 My father taught me. He said, ""Hold on to my words with all your heart. Keep my commands. Then you will live." 
Proverbs4:5 Get wisdom. Get understanding. Don't forget my words. Don't turn away from them. 
Proverbs4:6 Stay close to wisdom, and she will keep you safe. Love her, and she will watch over you." 
Proverbs4:7 Wisdom is best. So get wisdom. No matter what it costs, get understanding." 
Proverbs4:8 Value wisdom, and she will lift you up. Hold her close, and she will honor you." 
Proverbs4:9 She will set a beautiful crown on your head. She will give you a glorious crown. 
Proverbs4:10 My son, listen. Accept what I say. Then you will live for many years." 
Proverbs4:11 I guide you in the way of wisdom. I lead you along straight paths. 
Proverbs4:12 When you walk, nothing will slow you down. When you run, you won't trip and fall." 
Proverbs4:13 Hold on to my teaching. Don't let it go. Guard it well. It is your life. 
Proverbs4:14 Don't take the path of evil people. Don't live the way sinners do. 
Proverbs4:15 Stay away from their path. Don't travel on it. Turn away from it. Go on your way. 
Proverbs4:16 Sinners can't sleep until they do what is evil. They can't rest until they make someone fall. 
Proverbs4:17 They do evil just as easily as they eat food. They hurt others as easily as they drink wine. 
Proverbs4:18 The path of those who do what is right is like the first gleam of dawn. It shines brighter and brighter until the full light of day. 
Proverbs4:19 But the way of those who do what is wrong is like deep darkness. They don't know what makes them trip and fall. 
Proverbs4:20 My son, pay attention to what I say. Listen closely to my words." 
Proverbs4:21 Don't let them out of your sight. Keep them in your heart. 
Proverbs4:22 They are life to those who find them. They are health to your whole body. 
Proverbs4:23 Above everything else, guard your heart. It is where your life comes from." 
Proverbs4:24 Don't speak with twisted words. Keep evil talk away from your lips. 
Proverbs4:25 Let your eyes look straight ahead. Keep looking right in front of you. 
Proverbs4:26 Make level paths for your feet to walk on. Only go on ways that are firm. 
Proverbs4:27 Don't turn to the right or left. Keep your feet from the path of evil. 
Proverbs5:1 My son, pay attention to my wisdom. Listen carefully to my wise sayings." 
Proverbs5:2 Then you will continue to have good sense. Your lips will keep on speaking words of knowledge. 
Proverbs5:3 A woman who commits adultery has lips that drip honey. What she says is smoother than oil. 
Proverbs5:4 But in the end she is like bitter poison. She cuts like a sword that has two edges. 
Proverbs5:5 Her feet go down to death. Her steps lead straight to the grave. 
Proverbs5:6 She doesn't give any thought to her way of life. Her paths are crooked, but she doesn't realize it." 
Proverbs5:7 My sons, listen to me. Don't turn away from what I say." 
Proverbs5:8 Stay on a path far away from that evil woman. Don't even go near the door of her house. 
Proverbs5:9 If you do, you will give your best strength to others. You will give the best years of your life to someone who is mean." 
Proverbs5:10 Strangers will use up all of your wealth. Your hard work will make someone else rich. 
Proverbs5:11 At the end of your life you will groan. Your skin and your body will be worn out. 
Proverbs5:12 You will say, ""How I hated to take advice! How my heart refused to be corrected!" 
Proverbs5:13 I would not obey my teachers. I wouldn't listen to those who taught me. 
Proverbs5:14 I was almost totally destroyed. It happened right in front of the whole community. 
Proverbs5:15 Drink water from your own well. Drink running water from your own spring. 
Proverbs5:16 Should your springs pour out into the streets? Should your streams of water pour out in public places? 
Proverbs5:17 No! Let them belong to you alone. Never share them with strangers. 
Proverbs5:18 May your fountain be blessed. May the wife you married when you were young make you happy. 
Proverbs5:19 She is like a loving doe, a graceful deer. May her breasts always satisfy you. May you always be captured by her love." 
Proverbs5:20 My son, why be captured by a woman who commits adultery? Why hug the wife of another man?" 
Proverbs5:21 The Lord watches a man's ways. He studies all of his paths. 
Proverbs5:22 A sinner is trapped by his own evil acts. He is held tight by the ropes of his sins. 
Proverbs5:23 He will die because he refused to be corrected. His sins will capture him because he was very foolish. 
Proverbs6:1 My son, don't put up money for what your neighbor owes. Don't agree to pay up for someone else." 
Proverbs6:2 Don't be trapped by what you have said. Don't be caught by the words of your mouth. 
Proverbs6:3 Instead, my son, do something to free yourself. Don't fall into your neighbor's hands. Don't be proud. Hurry and make your appeal to your neighbor." 
Proverbs6:4 Don't let your eyes go to sleep. Don't let your eyelids close. 
Proverbs6:5 As a deer frees itself from a hunter, free yourself. As a bird frees itself from a trapper, free yourself." 
Proverbs6:6 You people who don't want to work, think about the ant! Consider its ways and be wise!" 
Proverbs6:7 It has no commander. It has no leader or ruler. 
Proverbs6:8 But it stores up its food in summer. It gathers its food at harvest time. 
Proverbs6:9 You lazy people, how long will you lie there? When will you get up from your sleep?" 
Proverbs6:10 You might sleep a little or take a little nap. You might even fold your hands and rest. 
Proverbs6:11 Then you would be poor, as if someone had robbed you. You would have little, as if someone had stolen from you." 
Proverbs6:12 A worthless and evil man goes around saying twisted things with his mouth. 
Proverbs6:13 He winks with his eyes. He makes signals with his feet. He motions with his fingers. 
Proverbs6:14 His plans are evil. He has lies in his heart. He is always stirring up fights. 
Proverbs6:15 Trouble will catch up with him in an instant. He will suddenly be destroyed. Nothing can save him. 
Proverbs6:16 There are six things the Lord hates. In fact, he hates seven things." 
Proverbs6:17 The Lord hates proud eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that kill those who aren't guilty." 
Proverbs6:18 He also hates hearts that make evil plans, feet that are quick to do evil," 
Proverbs6:19 any witness who pours out lies, and anyone who stirs up family fights." 
Proverbs6:20 My son, keep your father's commands. Don't turn away from your mother's teaching." 
Proverbs6:21 Tie them to your heart forever. Put them around your neck. 
Proverbs6:22 When you walk, they will guide you. When you sleep, they will watch over you. When you wake up, they will speak to you." 
Proverbs6:23 Your father's commands are like a lamp. Your mother's teaching is like a light. And the training that corrects you leads to life. 
Proverbs6:24 It keeps you from a sinful woman. It keeps you from the smooth tongue of a woman who commits adultery. 
Proverbs6:25 Don't hunger in your heart after her beauty. Don't let her eyes capture you. 
Proverbs6:26 A prostitute leaves you with only a loaf of bread. Another man's wife hunts your very life. 
Proverbs6:27 You can't shovel fire into your lap without burning your clothes. 
Proverbs6:28 You can't walk on hot coals without burning your feet. 
Proverbs6:29 It's the same for anyone who has sex with another man's wife. Anyone who touches her will be punished. 
Proverbs6:30 People don't hate a thief who steals to fill his empty stomach. 
Proverbs6:31 But when he is caught, he must pay seven times as much as he stole. It may even cost him everything he has." 
Proverbs6:32 A man who commits adultery has no sense. Anyone who does it destroys himself. 
Proverbs6:33 He will be beaten up and dishonored. His shame will never be wiped away. 
Proverbs6:34 Jealousy stirs up a husband's anger. He will show no mercy when he gets even. 
Proverbs6:35 He won't accept any payment. He won't take any money, no matter how much he is offered." 
Proverbs7:1 My son, obey my words. Store up my commands inside you." 
Proverbs7:2 Obey my commands and you will live. Guard my teachings as you would your own eyes. 
Proverbs7:3 Tie them on your fingers. Write them on the tablet of your heart. 
Proverbs7:4 Say to wisdom, ""You are my sister."" Call understanding a member of your family." 
Proverbs7:5 They will keep you from a woman who commits adultery. They will keep you from the smooth talk of a sinful wife. 
Proverbs7:6 I stood at the window of my house. I looked out through it. 
Proverbs7:7 Among those who were childish I saw a young man who had no sense. 
Proverbs7:8 He went down the street near that sinful woman's corner. He walked toward her house. 
Proverbs7:9 The sun had gone down. Day was fading. The darkness of night was falling. 
Proverbs7:10 A woman came out to meet him. She was dressed like a prostitute and had a clever plan. 
Proverbs7:11 She was a loud and pushy woman. She never stayed at home. 
Proverbs7:12 Sometimes in the streets, sometimes at other places, at every corner she would wait." 
Proverbs7:13 She took hold of the young man and kissed him. With a bold face she spoke to him. 
Proverbs7:14 She said, ""At home I have meat left over from my offerings. Today I offered what I had promised I would." 
Proverbs7:15 So I came out to meet you. I looked for you. And I have found you! 
Proverbs7:16 I have covered my bed with colored sheets from Egypt. 
Proverbs7:17 I've perfumed my bed with spices. I used myrrh, aloes and cinnamon." 
Proverbs7:18 Come, let's drink our fill of love until morning. Let's enjoy ourselves by having sex!" 
Proverbs7:19 My husband isn't home. He's gone on a long journey. 
Proverbs7:20 He took his bag full of money. He won't be home for several days. 
Proverbs7:21 She led him down the wrong path with her clever words. She charmed him with her smooth talk. 
Proverbs7:22 All at once he followed her. He was like an ox going to be killed. He was like a deer stepping into a trap 
Proverbs7:23 until an arrow struck its liver. He was like a bird rushing into a trap. Little did he know it would cost him his life! 
Proverbs7:24 My sons, listen to me. Pay attention to what I say." 
Proverbs7:25 Don't let your hearts turn to her ways. Don't step onto her paths. 
Proverbs7:26 She has brought down a lot of men. She has killed a huge crowd. 
Proverbs7:27 Her house is a road to the grave. It leads down to the place of the dead. 
Proverbs8:1 Doesn't wisdom call out? Doesn't understanding raise her voice? 
Proverbs8:2 On the high roads along the way, she takes her place where the paths meet." 
Proverbs8:3 Beside the gates leading into the city, she cries out at the entrances." 
Proverbs8:4 She says, ""Men, I call out to you. I raise my voice to all human beings." 
Proverbs8:5 You who are childish, get some good sense. You who are foolish, gain understanding." 
Proverbs8:6 Listen! I have worthy things to say. I open my lips to speak what is right. 
Proverbs8:7 My mouth speaks what is true. My lips hate evil. 
Proverbs8:8 All the words of my mouth are honest. None of them is twisted or sinful. 
Proverbs8:9 To those who have understanding, all my words are right. To those who have knowledge, they are true." 
Proverbs8:10 Choose my teaching instead of silver. Choose knowledge rather than fine gold. 
Proverbs8:11 Wisdom is worth more than rubies. Nothing you want can compare with her. 
Proverbs8:12 I, wisdom, live together with understanding. I have knowledge and good sense." 
Proverbs8:13 To have respect for the Lord is to hate evil. I hate pride and bragging. I hate evil ways and twisted words. 
Proverbs8:14 I have good sense and give good advice. I have understanding and power. 
Proverbs8:15 By me kings rule. Leaders make laws that are fair. 
Proverbs8:16 By me princes govern. By me all nobles rule on earth. 
Proverbs8:17 I love those who love me. Those who look for me find me. 
Proverbs8:18 With me are riches and honor. With me are lasting wealth and success. 
Proverbs8:19 My fruit is better than fine gold. My gifts are better than the finest silver. 
Proverbs8:20 I walk in ways that are honest. I take paths that are right. 
Proverbs8:21 I leave riches to those who love me. I give them more than they have room for. 
Proverbs8:22 The Lord created me as the first of his works, before his acts of long ago." 
Proverbs8:23 I was formed at the very beginning. I was formed before the world began. 
Proverbs8:24 Before there were any oceans, I was born. There weren't any springs of water at that time." 
Proverbs8:25 Before the mountains were settled in place, I was born. Before there were any hills, I was born." 
Proverbs8:26 It happened before the Lord made the earth and its fields. It was before he made the dust of the world. 
Proverbs8:27 I was there when he set the heavens in place. When he marked out the place where the sky meets the sea, I was there." 
Proverbs8:28 That was when he put the clouds above. It was when he fixed the ocean springs in place. 
Proverbs8:29 It was when he set limits for the sea so that the waters had to obey his command. When he marked out the foundations of the earth, I was there." 
Proverbs8:30 I was the skilled worker at his side. I was filled with delight day after day. I was always happy to be with him. 
Proverbs8:31 His whole world filled me with joy. I took delight in all human beings. 
Proverbs8:32 My children, listen to me. Blessed are those who keep my ways." 
Proverbs8:33 Listen to my teaching and be wise. Don't turn away from it. 
Proverbs8:34 Blessed is the one who listens to me. He watches every day at my doors. He waits beside my doorway. 
Proverbs8:35 Those who find me find life. They receive favor from the Lord. 
Proverbs8:36 But those who don't find me harm only themselves. Everyone who hates me loves death. 
Proverbs9:1 Wisdom has built her house. She has made its seven pillars. 
Proverbs9:2 She has prepared her meat and mixed her wine. She has also set her table. 
Proverbs9:3 She has sent out her female servants. She calls out from the highest point of the city. 
Proverbs9:4 She says, ""Let all who are childish come in here!"" She speaks to those who have no sense." 
Proverbs9:5 Come and eat my food. Drink the wine I have mixed. 
Proverbs9:6 Leave your childish ways and you will live. Walk in the way that leads to understanding. 
Proverbs9:7 When you correct someone who makes fun of others, you might be laughed at. When you warn a sinner, you might get hurt." 
Proverbs9:8 Don't warn those who make fun of others. They will hate you. Warn those who are wise. They will love you. 
Proverbs9:9 Teach a wise man. He will become even wiser. Teach a person who does right. He will learn even more. 
Proverbs9:10 If you really want to become wise, you must begin by having respect for the Lord. To know the Holy One is to gain understanding." 
Proverbs9:11 Through me, you will live a long time. Years will be added to your life." 
Proverbs9:12 If you are wise, your wisdom will reward you. If you make fun of others, you alone will suffer.""" 
Proverbs9:13 The woman called Foolishness is loud. She doesn't control herself. She doesn't know anything. 
Proverbs9:14 She sits at the door of her house. She sits at the highest point of the city. 
Proverbs9:15 She calls out to those who pass by. She calls out to those who go straight on their way. 
Proverbs9:16 She says, ""Let all who are childish come in here!"" She speaks to those who have no sense." 
Proverbs9:17 She says, ""Stolen water is sweet. Food eaten in secret tastes good!""" 
Proverbs9:18 But they don't know that dead people are there. They don't know that her guests are in the deepest parts of the grave. 
Proverbs10:1 These are the proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes his father glad. But a foolish son brings sorrow to his mother. 
Proverbs10:2 Riches that are gained by sinning aren't worth anything. But doing what is right saves you from death. 
Proverbs10:3 The Lord gives those who do right the food they need. But he lets those who do wrong go hungry. 
Proverbs10:4 Hands that don't want to work make you poor. But hands that work hard bring wealth to you. 
Proverbs10:5 A child who gathers crops in summer is wise. But a child who sleeps at harvest time brings shame. 
Proverbs10:6 Blessings are like crowns on the heads of those who do right. But the trouble caused by what sinners say destroys them. 
Proverbs10:7 To remember those who do right is a blessing. But the names of those who do wrong will rot. 
Proverbs10:8 A wise heart accepts commands. But foolish chattering destroys you. 
Proverbs10:9 Anyone who lives without blame walks safely. But anyone who takes a crooked path will get caught. 
Proverbs10:10 An evil wink gets you into trouble. And foolish chattering destroys you. 
Proverbs10:11 The mouths of those who do right are a fountain of life. But the trouble caused by what sinners say destroys them. 
Proverbs10:12 Hate stirs up fights. But love erases all sins by forgiving them. 
Proverbs10:13 Wisdom is found on the lips of those who understand what is right. But those who have no sense are punished. 
Proverbs10:14 Wise people store up knowledge. But the mouths of foolish people destroy them. 
Proverbs10:15 The wealth of rich people is like a city that makes them feel safe. But having nothing destroys those who are poor. 
Proverbs10:16 People who do what is right earn life. But what sinners earn causes them to be punished. 
Proverbs10:17 Anyone who pays attention to his training is on his way to life. But anyone who refuses to be corrected leads others down the wrong path. 
Proverbs10:18 Anyone who hides hatred has lying lips. And anyone who spreads lies is foolish. 
Proverbs10:19 Those who talk a lot are likely to sin. But those who control their tongues are wise. 
Proverbs10:20 The tongues of those who do right are like fine silver. But the hearts of those who do wrong aren't worth very much. 
Proverbs10:21 The words of those who do right benefit many people. But those who are foolish die because they have no sense. 
Proverbs10:22 The blessing of the Lord brings wealth. Trouble doesn't come with it. 
Proverbs10:23 A foolish person finds pleasure in doing evil things. But a man who has understanding takes delight in wisdom. 
Proverbs10:24 What sinners are afraid of will catch up with them. But those who do right will get what they want. 
Proverbs10:25 When the storm is over, sinners are gone. But those who do right stand firm forever." 
Proverbs10:26 Anyone who doesn't want to work hurts those who send him. He is like vinegar on the teeth or smoke in the eyes. 
Proverbs10:27 Having respect for the Lord leads to a longer life. But the years of evil people are cut short. 
Proverbs10:28 Those who do right can expect joy. But the hopes of sinners are bound to fail. 
Proverbs10:29 The way of the Lord leads to a safe place for those who do right. But it destroys those who do evil. 
Proverbs10:30 Those who do right will never be removed from the land. But those who do wrong will not remain in it. 
Proverbs10:31 The mouths of those who do right produce wisdom. But tongues that speak twisted words will be cut out. 
Proverbs10:32 Those who do right know the proper thing to say. But those who do wrong speak only twisted words. 
Proverbs11:1 The Lord hates it when people use scales to cheat others. But he is delighted when people use honest weights. 
Proverbs11:2 When pride comes, shame follows. But wisdom comes to those who are not proud." 
Proverbs11:3 Those who do what is right are guided by their honest lives. But those who aren't faithful are destroyed by their trickery. 
Proverbs11:4 Wealth isn't worth anything when God judges you. But doing what is right saves you from death. 
Proverbs11:5 The ways of honest people are made straight because they do what is right. But those who do what is wrong are brought down by their own sins. 
Proverbs11:6 Godly people are saved by doing what is right. But those who aren't faithful are trapped by evil longings. 
Proverbs11:7 When an evil man dies, his hope dies with him. Everything he expected to gain from his power will be lost." 
Proverbs11:8 Those who do right are saved from trouble. But trouble comes on those who do wrong. 
Proverbs11:9 With their words ungodly people destroy their neighbors. But those who do what is right escape because of their knowledge. 
Proverbs11:10 When those who do right succeed, their city is glad. When those who do wrong die, people shout for joy." 
Proverbs11:11 The blessing of honest people builds up a city. But the words of sinners destroy it. 
Proverbs11:12 A person who has no sense makes fun of his neighbor. But a man who has understanding controls his tongue. 
Proverbs11:13 Those who talk about others tell secrets. But those who can be trusted keep things to themselves. 
Proverbs11:14 Without the guidance of good leaders a nation falls. But many good advisers can save it. 
Proverbs11:15 Anyone who puts up money for what someone else owes will certainly suffer. But a person who doesn't agree to pay up for someone else is safe. 
Proverbs11:16 A woman who has a kind heart gains respect. But men who are not kind gain only wealth. 
Proverbs11:17 A kind man benefits himself. But a mean person brings trouble on himself. 
Proverbs11:18 Those who do what is wrong really earn nothing. But those who plant what is right will certainly be rewarded. 
Proverbs11:19 Right living leads to life. But anyone who runs after evil will die. 
Proverbs11:20 The Lord hates those whose hearts are twisted. But he is pleased with those who live without blame. 
Proverbs11:21 You can be sure that sinners will be punished. And you can also be sure that godly people will go free. 
Proverbs11:22 A beautiful woman who has no sense is like a gold ring in a pig's nose. 
Proverbs11:23 What godly people long for ends only in what is good. But what sinners hope for ends only in God's anger. 
Proverbs11:24 Some give freely but get even richer. Others don't give what they should but get even poorer. 
Proverbs11:25 Anyone who gives a lot will succeed. Anyone who renews others will be renewed. 
Proverbs11:26 People call down curses on those who store up grain for themselves. But blessing makes those who are willing to sell feel like kings. 
Proverbs11:27 Anyone who looks for what is good finds favor. But bad things happen to a person who plans to do evil. 
Proverbs11:28 Those who trust in their riches will fall. But those who do right will be as healthy as a green leaf. 
Proverbs11:29 Those who bring trouble on their families will receive nothing but wind. And foolish people will serve wise people. 
Proverbs11:30 The fruit that godly people bear is like a tree of life. And those who lead others to do what is right are wise. 
Proverbs11:31 Godly people get what they should get on earth. So ungodly people and sinners will certainly get what they should get! 
Proverbs12:1 Anyone who loves to be trained loves knowledge. Anyone who hates to be corrected is stupid. 
Proverbs12:2 The Lord blesses anyone who does good. But he judges any man who is tricky. 
Proverbs12:3 If a man does what is evil, he can't become strong and steady. But if people do what is right, they can't be removed from the land." 
Proverbs12:4 A noble wife is her husband's crown. But a wife who brings shame is like sickness in his bones. 
Proverbs12:5 The plans of godly people are right. But the advice of sinners will lead you the wrong way. 
Proverbs12:6 The words of those who are evil hide and wait to spill people's blood. But the speech of those who are honest saves them from traps like that. 
Proverbs12:7 Sinners are destroyed and taken away. But the houses of godly people stand firm. 
Proverbs12:8 A man is praised for how wise he is. But people hate those who have twisted minds. 
Proverbs12:9 Being nobody and having a servant is better than pretending to be somebody and having no food. 
Proverbs12:10 Those who do what is right take good care of their animals. But the kindest acts of those who do wrong are mean. 
Proverbs12:11 Anyone who farms his land will have plenty of food. But a person who chases dreams has no sense. 
Proverbs12:12 Those who do what is wrong want to steal from others. But those who do what is right bear good fruit because of their deep roots. 
Proverbs12:13 A sinner is trapped by his sinful talk. But a godly person escapes trouble. 
Proverbs12:14 Many good things come from what a man says. And the work of his hands rewards him. 
Proverbs12:15 The way of a foolish person seems right to him. But a wise person listens to advice. 
Proverbs12:16 Foolish people are easily upset. But wise people pay no attention to hurtful words. 
Proverbs12:17 An honest witness tells the truth. But a dishonest witness tells lies. 
Proverbs12:18 Thoughtless words cut like a sword. But the tongue of wise people brings healing. 
Proverbs12:19 Truthful words last forever. But lies last for only a moment. 
Proverbs12:20 There are lies in the hearts of those who plan evil. But there is joy for those who work to bring peace. 
Proverbs12:21 No harm comes to godly people. But sinners have all the trouble they can handle. 
Proverbs12:22 The Lord hates those whose lips tell lies. But he is pleased with people who tell the truth. 
Proverbs12:23 Wise people keep their knowledge to themselves. But the hearts of foolish people shout foolish things. 
Proverbs12:24 Hands that work hard will rule. But people who don't want to work will become slaves. 
Proverbs12:25 Worry makes a man's heart heavy. But a kind word cheers him up. 
Proverbs12:26 Godly people are careful about the friends they choose. But the way of sinners leads them down the wrong path. 
Proverbs12:27 Anyone who refuses to work doesn't even cook what he catches. But a man who works hard values what he has. 
Proverbs12:28 There is life in doing what is right. Along that path you will never die. 
Proverbs13:1 A wise child pays attention to what his father teaches him. But anyone who makes fun of others doesn't listen to warnings. 
Proverbs13:2 The good things a man says benefit him. But a liar loves to hurt others. 
Proverbs13:3 Anyone who guards what he says guards his life. But anyone who speaks without thinking will be destroyed. 
Proverbs13:4 People who refuse to work want things and get nothing. But the longings of people who work hard are completely satisfied. 
Proverbs13:5 Those who do right hate what is false. But those who do wrong bring shame and dishonor. 
Proverbs13:6 Doing right guards those who are honest. But evil destroys those who are sinful. 
Proverbs13:7 Some people pretend to be rich but have nothing. Others pretend to be poor but have great wealth. 
Proverbs13:8 A man who is rich might have to pay to save his life. But a poor person is not in danger of that. 
Proverbs13:9 The lights of godly people shine brightly. But the lamps of sinners are blown out. 
Proverbs13:10 Pride only leads to arguing. But those who take advice are wise. 
Proverbs13:11 Money that is gained in the wrong way disappears. But money that is gathered little by little grows. 
Proverbs13:12 Hope that is put off makes one sick at heart. But a longing that is met is like a tree of life. 
Proverbs13:13 Anyone who hates what he is taught will pay for it later. But a person who respects a command will be rewarded. 
Proverbs13:14 The teaching of wise people is like a fountain that gives life. It turns those who listen to it away from the jaws of death. 
Proverbs13:15 Good understanding wins favor. But the way of liars doesn't last. 
Proverbs13:16 Wise people act in keeping with the knowledge they have. But foolish people show how foolish they are. 
Proverbs13:17 An evil messenger gets into trouble. But a messenger who is trusted brings healing. 
Proverbs13:18 Those who turn away from their training become poor and ashamed. But those who accept warnings are honored. 
Proverbs13:19 A longing that is met is like something that tastes sweet. But foolish people hate to turn away from evil. 
Proverbs13:20 Anyone who walks with wise people grows wise. But a companion of foolish people suffers harm. 
Proverbs13:21 Hard times chase those who are sinful. But success is the reward of those who do right. 
Proverbs13:22 A good person leaves what he owns to his children and grandchildren. But a sinner's wealth is stored up for those who do right. 
Proverbs13:23 The fields of poor people might produce a lot of food. But those who beat them down destroy it all. 
Proverbs13:24 Those who don't correct their children hate them. But those who love them are careful to train them. 
Proverbs13:25 Those who do right eat until they are full. But the stomachs of those who do wrong go hungry. 
Proverbs14:1 A wise woman builds her house. But a foolish woman tears hers down with her own hands. 
Proverbs14:2 An honest person has respect for the Lord. But a person whose paths are crooked hates him. 
Proverbs14:3 Foolish people are punished for what they say. But the things wise people say keep them safe. 
Proverbs14:4 Where there are no oxen, the feed box is empty. But a strong ox brings in a great harvest." 
Proverbs14:5 An honest witness does not lie. But a dishonest witness pours out lies. 
Proverbs14:6 Those who make fun of others look for wisdom and don't find it. But knowledge comes easily to those who understand what is right. 
Proverbs14:7 Stay away from a foolish man. You won't find knowledge in what he says. 
Proverbs14:8 People are wise and understanding when they think about the way they live. But people are foolish when their foolish ways trick them. 
Proverbs14:9 Foolish people laugh at making things right when they sin. But honest people try to do the right thing. 
Proverbs14:10 Each heart knows its own sadness. And no one else can share its joy. 
Proverbs14:11 The houses of sinners will be destroyed. But the tents of honest people will stand firm. 
Proverbs14:12 There is a way that may seem right to a man. But in the end it leads to death. 
Proverbs14:13 Even when you laugh, your heart can be hurting. And your joy can end in sadness." 
Proverbs14:14 Those who aren't faithful will be paid back for what they've done. And good men will receive rewards for how they've lived. 
Proverbs14:15 A childish person believes anything. But a wise person thinks about how he lives. 
Proverbs14:16 A wise person has respect for the Lord and avoids evil. But a foolish person gets mad and is thoughtless. 
Proverbs14:17 Anyone who gets angry quickly does foolish things. And a man who is tricky is hated. 
Proverbs14:18 Childish people act in keeping with their foolish ways. But knowledge makes wise people feel like kings. 
Proverbs14:19 Evil people will bow down in front of good people. And those who do wrong will bow down at the gates of those who do right. 
Proverbs14:20 Poor people are avoided even by their neighbors. But rich people have many friends. 
Proverbs14:21 Anyone who hates his neighbor commits sin. But blessed is the person who is kind to those in need. 
Proverbs14:22 Those who plan evil go down the wrong path. But those who plan good find love and truth. 
Proverbs14:23 All hard work pays off. But if all you do is talk, you will be poor." 
Proverbs14:24 The wealth of wise people is their crown. But the foolish ways of foolish people lead to what is foolish. 
Proverbs14:25 An honest witness saves lives. But a dishonest witness tells lies. 
Proverbs14:26 Anyone who shows respect for the Lord has a strong tower. It will be a safe place for his children. 
Proverbs14:27 Respect for the Lord is like a fountain that gives life. It turns you away from the jaws of death. 
Proverbs14:28 A large population is a king's glory. But a prince without followers is destroyed. 
Proverbs14:29 Anyone who is patient has great understanding. But anyone who gets angry quickly shows how foolish he is. 
Proverbs14:30 A peaceful heart gives life to the body. But jealousy rots the bones. 
Proverbs14:31 Anyone who crushes poor people makes fun of their Maker. But anyone who is kind to those in need honors God. 
Proverbs14:32 When trouble comes, sinners are brought down. But godly people have a safe place even when they die." 
Proverbs14:33 Wisdom rests in the hearts of those who understand what is right. And even among foolish people she makes herself known. 
Proverbs14:34 Doing what is right lifts people up. But sin brings shame to any nation. 
Proverbs14:35 A king is pleased with a wise servant. But a servant who is full of shame invites the king's anger. 
Proverbs15:1 A gentle answer turns anger away. But mean words stir up anger. 
Proverbs15:2 The tongues of wise people use knowledge well. But the mouths of foolish people pour out foolish words. 
Proverbs15:3 The eyes of the Lord are everywhere. They watch those who are evil and those who are good. 
Proverbs15:4 A tongue that brings healing is like a tree of life. But a tongue that tells lies produces a broken spirit. 
Proverbs15:5 A foolish person turns his back on how his father has trained him. But anyone who accepts being corrected shows understanding. 
Proverbs15:6 The houses of those who do what is right hold great wealth. But those who do what is wrong earn only trouble. 
Proverbs15:7 The lips of wise people spread knowledge. But that's not true of the hearts of foolish people. 
Proverbs15:8 The Lord hates the sacrifice of sinful people. But the prayers of honest people please him. 
Proverbs15:9 The Lord hates how sinners live. But he loves those who run after what is right. 
Proverbs15:10 Hard training is in store for anyone who leaves the right path. A person who hates to be corrected will die. 
Proverbs15:11 Death and the Grave lie open in front of the Lord. So the hearts of mere men certainly lie open to him! 
Proverbs15:12 Anyone who makes fun of others doesn't like to be corrected. He won't ask wise people for advice. 
Proverbs15:13 A happy heart makes a face look cheerful. But a sad heart produces a broken spirit. 
Proverbs15:14 A heart that understands what is right looks for knowledge. But the mouths of foolish people feed on what is foolish. 
Proverbs15:15 All the days of those who are crushed are filled with pain and suffering. But a cheerful heart enjoys a good time that never ends. 
Proverbs15:16 It is better to have respect for the Lord and have little than to be rich and have trouble. 
Proverbs15:17 A meal of vegetables where there is love is better than the finest meat where there is hatred. 
Proverbs15:18 A man who burns with anger stirs up fights. But a person who is patient calms things down. 
Proverbs15:19 The way of people who don't want to work is blocked with thorns. But the path of honest people is a wide road. 
Proverbs15:20 A wise son makes his father glad. But a foolish son hates his mother. 
Proverbs15:21 A person who has no sense enjoys doing foolish things. But a man who has understanding walks straight ahead. 
Proverbs15:22 Plans fail without good advice. But they succeed when there are many advisers. 
Proverbs15:23 Joy is found in giving the right answer. And how good is a word spoken at the right time! 
Proverbs15:24 The path of life leads up for those who are wise. It keeps them from going down to the grave. 
Proverbs15:25 The Lord tears down the proud person's house. But he keeps the widow's property safe. 
Proverbs15:26 The Lord hates the thoughts of sinful people. But the thoughts of pure people are pleasing to him. 
Proverbs15:27 Anyone who always wants more brings trouble to his family. But a person who refuses to be paid off will live. 
Proverbs15:28 The hearts of those who do right think about how they will answer. But the mouths of those who do wrong pour out evil. 
Proverbs15:29 The Lord is far away from those who do wrong. But he hears the prayers of those who do right. 
Proverbs15:30 A cheerful look brings joy to your heart. And good news gives health to your body. 
Proverbs15:31 If you listen to a warning, you will live. You will be at home among those who are wise." 
Proverbs15:32 Anyone who turns away from his training hates himself. But anyone who accepts being corrected gains understanding. 
Proverbs15:33 Having respect for the Lord teaches you how to live wisely. So don't be proud if you want to be honored. 
Proverbs16:1 People make plans in their hearts. But the Lord controls what they say. 
Proverbs16:2 Everything a man does might seem right to him. But the Lord knows what that man is thinking. 
Proverbs16:3 Commit to the Lord everything you do. Then your plans will succeed. 
Proverbs16:4 The Lord works everything out for his own purposes. Even those who do wrong were made for a day of trouble. 
Proverbs16:5 The Lord hates all those who have proud hearts. You can be sure that they will be punished. 
Proverbs16:6 Through love and truth sin is paid for. People avoid evil when they have respect for the Lord. 
Proverbs16:7 When the way you live pleases the Lord, he makes even your enemies live at peace with you." 
Proverbs16:8 It is better to have a little and do right than to have a lot and be unfair. 
Proverbs16:9 In your heart you plan your life. But the Lord decides where your steps will take you. 
Proverbs16:10 A king might speak as if his words come from God. But what he says should not turn right into wrong. 
Proverbs16:11 Honest scales and balances come from the Lord. He made all of the weights in the bag. 
Proverbs16:12 A king hates it when his people do what is wrong. A ruler is made secure when they do what is right. 
Proverbs16:13 Kings are pleased when what you say is honest. They value people who speak the truth. 
Proverbs16:14 An angry king can order your death. But a wise man will try to calm him down. 
Proverbs16:15 When a king's face is happy, it means life. His favor is like rain in the spring." 
Proverbs16:16 It is much better to get wisdom than gold. It is much better to choose understanding than silver. 
Proverbs16:17 The path of honest people takes them away from evil. Those who guard their ways guard their lives. 
Proverbs16:18 If you are proud, you will be destroyed. If you are proud, you will fall." 
Proverbs16:19 Suppose you are lowly in spirit and are with those who are beaten down. That's better than sharing stolen goods with those who are proud. 
Proverbs16:20 If anyone pays attention to what he is taught, he will succeed. Blessed is the person who puts his trust in the Lord." 
Proverbs16:21 Wise hearts are known for understanding what is right. Pleasant words make people want to learn more. 
Proverbs16:22 Understanding is like a fountain of life to those who have it. But foolish people are punished for the foolish things they do. 
Proverbs16:23 The hearts of wise people guide their mouths. Their words make people want to learn more. 
Proverbs16:24 Pleasant words are like honey. They are sweet to the spirit and bring healing to the body. 
Proverbs16:25 There is a way that may seem right to a man. But in the end it leads to death. 
Proverbs16:26 The hunger of a worker makes him work. His hunger drives him on. 
Proverbs16:27 A worthless man plans to do evil things. His words are like a burning fire. 
Proverbs16:28 A twisted person stirs up fights. Anyone who talks about others comes between close friends. 
Proverbs16:29 A man who wants to hurt others tries to get them to sin. He leads them down a path that isn't good. 
Proverbs16:30 When he winks with his eyes, he is planning to do wrong. When his lips are tightly closed, he is up to no good." 
Proverbs16:31 Gray hair is a glorious crown. You get it by living the right way. 
Proverbs16:32 It is better to be patient than to fight. It is better to control your temper than to take a city. 
Proverbs16:33 Lots are cast into the lap to make decisions. But everything they decide comes from the Lord. 
Proverbs17:1 It is better to eat a dry crust of bread in peace and quiet than to eat a big dinner in a house that is full of fighting. 
Proverbs17:2 A wise servant will rule over a shameful child. He will be given part of the property as if he were a family member. 
Proverbs17:3 Fire tests silver. Heat tests gold. But the Lord tests our hearts. 
Proverbs17:4 An evil person listens to evil words. A liar pays attention to words that are harmful. 
Proverbs17:5 Anyone who laughs at those who are poor makes fun of their Maker. Anyone who is happy when others suffer will be punished. 
Proverbs17:6 Grandchildren are like a crown to older people. And children are proud of their parents. 
Proverbs17:7 It isn't proper for foolish people to brag. And it certainly isn't proper for rulers to tell lies! 
Proverbs17:8 Money buys favors for those who give it. No matter where they turn, they succeed." 
Proverbs17:9 Those who erase a sin by forgiving it show love. But those who talk about it come between close friends. 
Proverbs17:10 A person who understands what is right learns more from just a warning than a foolish person learns from 100 strokes with a whip. 
Proverbs17:11 An evil person never wants to obey. An official who shows no mercy will be sent against him. 
Proverbs17:12 It is better to meet a bear whose cubs have been stolen than to meet a foolish person who is acting foolishly. 
Proverbs17:13 Evil will never leave the house of anyone who pays back evil for good. 
Proverbs17:14 Starting to argue is like making a crack in a dam. So drop the matter before a fight breaks out. 
Proverbs17:15 The Lord hates two things. He hates it when the guilty are set free. He also hates it when those who aren't guilty are punished. 
Proverbs17:16 What good is money in the hands of a foolish person? He doesn't want to become wise. 
Proverbs17:17 A friend loves at all times. He is there to help when trouble comes. 
Proverbs17:18 A man who has little sense agrees to pay what other people owe. It isn't wise to put up money for others. 
Proverbs17:19 The one who loves to argue loves to sin. The one who builds a high gate is just asking to be destroyed. 
Proverbs17:20 If your heart is twisted, you won't succeed. If your tongue tells lies, you will get into trouble." 
Proverbs17:21 It is sad to have a foolish child. The parents of a foolish person have no joy. 
Proverbs17:22 A cheerful heart makes you healthy. But a broken spirit dries you up. 
Proverbs17:23 Anyone who does wrong accepts favors in secret. Then he turns what is right into wrong. 
Proverbs17:24 Anyone who understands what is right keeps wisdom in view. But the eyes of a foolish person look everywhere else. 
Proverbs17:25 A foolish child makes his father sad and his mother sorry. 
Proverbs17:26 It isn't good to punish those who aren't guilty. It isn't good to whip officials just because they are honest. 
Proverbs17:27 Anyone who has knowledge controls his words. A man who has understanding is not easily upset. 
Proverbs17:28 We think even a foolish person is wise if he keeps silent. We think he understands what is right if he controls his tongue. 
Proverbs18:1 A person who isn't friendly looks out only for himself. He opposes all good sense. 
Proverbs18:2 A foolish person doesn't want to understand. He takes delight in saying only what he thinks. 
Proverbs18:3 People hate it when evil comes. And they refuse to honor those who bring shame. 
Proverbs18:4 The words of a person's mouth are like deep water. But the fountain of wisdom is like a flowing stream. 
Proverbs18:5 It isn't good to favor those who do wrong. And it isn't good to hold back what is fair from those who aren't guilty. 
Proverbs18:6 What a foolish person says leads to arguing. He is just asking for a beating. 
Proverbs18:7 The words of a foolish person drag him down. He is trapped by what he says. 
Proverbs18:8 The words of anyone who talks about others are like tasty bites of food. They go deep down inside you. 
Proverbs18:9 Anyone who doesn't want to work is like someone who destroys. 
Proverbs18:10 The name of the Lord is like a strong tower. Godly people run to it and are safe. 
Proverbs18:11 The wealth of rich people is like a city that makes them feel safe. They think of it as a city with walls that can't be climbed. 
Proverbs18:12 If a man's heart is proud, he will be destroyed. So don't be proud if you want to be honored." 
Proverbs18:13 To answer before listening is foolish and shameful. 
Proverbs18:14 A man's cheerful heart gives him strength when he is sick. You can't keep going if you have a broken spirit. 
Proverbs18:15 Those whose hearts understand what is right get knowledge. The ears of those who are wise listen for it. 
Proverbs18:16 A gift opens the way for the one who gives it. It helps him meet important people. 
Proverbs18:17 The first one to tell his case seems right. Then someone else comes forward and questions him. 
Proverbs18:18 Casting lots will put a stop to arguing. It will keep the strongest enemies apart. 
Proverbs18:19 A broken friendship is harder to deal with than a city that has high walls around it. And arguing is like the locked gates of a mighty city. 
Proverbs18:20 A man can fill his stomach with what he says. The words from his lips can satisfy him. 
Proverbs18:21 Your tongue has the power of life and death. Those who love to talk will eat the fruit of their words. 
Proverbs18:22 The one who finds a wife finds what is good. He receives favor from the Lord. 
Proverbs18:23 Poor people beg for mercy. But rich people answer in a mean way. 
Proverbs18:24 Even a man who has many companions can be destroyed. But there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. 
Proverbs19:1 It is better to be poor and to live without blame than to be foolish and to twist words around. 
Proverbs19:2 It isn't good to get all stirred up without knowledge. And it isn't good to be in a hurry and miss the way. 
Proverbs19:3 A man's own foolish acts destroy his life. But his heart is angry with the Lord. 
Proverbs19:4 Wealth brings many friends. But the friends of poor people leave them alone. 
Proverbs19:5 A dishonest witness will be punished. And those who pour out lies will not go free. 
Proverbs19:6 Many try to win the favor of rulers. And everyone is the friend of a man who gives gifts. 
Proverbs19:7 A poor person is avoided by his whole family. His friends avoid him even more. The poor person runs after them to beg. But he can't find them. 
Proverbs19:8 Anyone who gets wisdom loves himself. Anyone who values understanding succeeds. 
Proverbs19:9 A dishonest witness will be punished. And those who pour out lies will die. 
Proverbs19:10 It isn't proper for a foolish person to live in great comfort. And it is much worse when a slave rules over princes! 
Proverbs19:11 A man's wisdom makes him patient. He will be honored if he forgives someone who sins against him. 
Proverbs19:12 A king's anger is like a lion's roar. But his favor is like dew on the grass. 
Proverbs19:13 If a child is foolish, he destroys his father. A nagging wife is like dripping that never stops." 
Proverbs19:14 You will receive houses and wealth from your parents. But a wise wife is given by the Lord. 
Proverbs19:15 Anyone who doesn't want to work sleeps his life away. And a person who refuses to work goes hungry. 
Proverbs19:16 Those who obey what they are taught guard their lives. But those who don't care how they live will die. 
Proverbs19:17 Anyone who is kind to poor people lends to the Lord. God will reward him for what he has done. 
Proverbs19:18 Train your child. Then there is hope. Don't do anything to bring about his death. 
Proverbs19:19 Anyone who burns with anger must pay for it. If you save him, you will have to do it again." 
Proverbs19:20 Listen to advice and accept what you are taught. In the end you will be wise. 
Proverbs19:21 A man may have many plans in his heart. But the Lord's purpose wins out in the end. 
Proverbs19:22 Every man longs for love that never fails. It is better to be poor than to be a liar. 
Proverbs19:23 Having respect for the Lord leads to life. Then you will be content and free from trouble. 
Proverbs19:24 A person who doesn't want to work leaves his hand in the dish. He won't even bring it back up to his mouth! 
Proverbs19:25 If you whip a person who makes fun of others, childish people will learn to be wise. If you warn someone who already understands what is right, he will gain even more knowledge." 
Proverbs19:26 A child who robs his father and drives out his mother brings shame and dishonor. 
Proverbs19:27 My son, if you stop listening to what I teach you, you will wander away from the words of knowledge." 
Proverbs19:28 A dishonest witness makes fun of what is right. The mouths of those who do wrong gulp down evil. 
Proverbs19:29 Those who make fun of others will be judged. Foolish people will be punished. 
Proverbs20:1 Wine causes you to make fun of others, and beer causes you to start fights. Anyone who is led down the wrong path by them is not wise." 
Proverbs20:2 A king's anger is like a lion's roar. Anyone who makes him angry may lose his life. 
Proverbs20:3 Avoiding a fight brings honor to a man. But every foolish person is quick to argue. 
Proverbs20:4 Anyone who refuses to work doesn't plow in the right season. When he looks for a crop at harvest time, he doesn't find it." 
Proverbs20:5 The purposes of a man's heart are like deep water. But a man who has understanding brings them out. 
Proverbs20:6 Many claim to have love that never fails. But who can find a faithful man? 
Proverbs20:7 Anyone who does what is right lives without blame. Blessed are his children after him. 
Proverbs20:8 A king sits on his throne to judge. He gets rid of all evil when he sees it. 
Proverbs20:9 No one can say, ""I have kept my heart pure. I'm clean. I haven't sinned.""" 
Proverbs20:10 The Lord hates two things. He hates weights that weigh things heavier or lighter than they really are. He also hates measures that measure things larger or smaller than they really are. 
Proverbs20:11 A child is known by his actions. He is known by whether his conduct is pure and right. 
Proverbs20:12 The Lord has made two things. He has made ears that hear. He has also made eyes that see. 
Proverbs20:13 Don't love sleep, or you will become poor. Stay awake, and you will have more food than you need." 
Proverbs20:14 It's no good. It's no good! says a buyer. Then off he goes and brags about what he bought. 
Proverbs20:15 There is gold. There are plenty of rubies. But lips that speak knowledge are a priceless jewel. 
Proverbs20:16 Take the coat of one who puts up money for what a stranger owes. Hold it until you get paid back if he does it for a woman who commits adultery. 
Proverbs20:17 Food gained by cheating tastes sweet to a man. But he will end up with a mouth full of sand. 
Proverbs20:18 Make plans by asking for guidance. If you go to war, get good advice." 
Proverbs20:19 A person who talks about others tells secrets. So avoid anyone who talks too much. 
Proverbs20:20 If anyone calls down curses on his father or mother, his lamp will be blown out in total darkness." 
Proverbs20:21 Property you gain quickly at the beginning will not be blessed in the end. 
Proverbs20:22 Don't say, ""I'll get even with you for the wrong you did to me!"" Wait for the Lord, and he will save you." 
Proverbs20:23 The Lord hates weights that weigh things heavier or lighter than they really are. Scales that are not honest don't please him. 
Proverbs20:24 The Lord directs a man's steps. So how can anyone understand his own way? 
Proverbs20:25 A man is trapped if he makes a hasty promise to God and only later thinks about what he said. 
Proverbs20:26 A wise king gets rid of evil people. He runs the threshing wheel over them. 
Proverbs20:27 The lamp of the Lord searches a man's heart. It searches deep down inside him. 
Proverbs20:28 Love and truth keep a king safe. Faithful love makes his throne secure. 
Proverbs20:29 Young men are proud of their strength. Gray hair brings honor to old men. 
Proverbs20:30 Blows and wounds wash evil away. And beatings make you pure deep down inside. 
Proverbs21:1 The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. He directs it like a stream of water anywhere he pleases. 
Proverbs21:2 Everything a man does might seem right to him. But the Lord knows what he is thinking. 
Proverbs21:3 Do what is right and fair. The Lord accepts that more than sacrifices. 
Proverbs21:4 Proud eyes and a proud heart are the lamp of sinful people. But those things are evil. 
Proverbs21:5 The plans of people who work hard succeed. You can be sure that those in a hurry will become poor. 
Proverbs21:6 A fortune made by people who tell lies amounts to nothing and leads to death. 
Proverbs21:7 The harmful things that evil people do will drag them away. They refuse to do what is right. 
Proverbs21:8 The path of those who are guilty is crooked. But the conduct of those who are not guilty is honest. 
Proverbs21:9 It is better to live on a corner of a roof than to share a house with a nagging wife. 
Proverbs21:10 A sinful person longs to do evil. He doesn't show his neighbor any mercy. 
Proverbs21:11 When you punish someone who makes fun of others, childish people get wise. If you teach a person who is already wise, he will get even more knowledge." 
Proverbs21:12 The Blameless One knows where sinners live. And he destroys them. 
Proverbs21:13 If you refuse to listen to the cries of poor people, you too will cry out and not be answered." 
Proverbs21:14 A secret gift calms anger down. A hidden favor softens great anger. 
Proverbs21:15 When you do what is fair, you make godly people glad. But you terrify those who do what is evil." 
Proverbs21:16 A man who leaves the path of understanding ends up with those who are dead. 
Proverbs21:17 Anyone who loves pleasure will become poor. Anyone who loves wine and oil will never be rich. 
Proverbs21:18 Those who do what is evil pay the price for setting godly people free. Those who aren't faithful pay the price for honest people. 
Proverbs21:19 It is better to live in a desert than to live with a nagging, angry wife." 
Proverbs21:20 The best food and olive oil are stored up in the houses of wise people. But a foolish man eats up everything he has. 
Proverbs21:21 Anyone who wants to be godly and loving finds life, success and honor." 
Proverbs21:22 Those who are wise can attack a strong city. They can pull down the place of safety its people trust in. 
Proverbs21:23 Anyone who is careful about what he says keeps himself out of trouble. 
Proverbs21:24 A proud person is called a mocker. He thinks much too highly of himself. 
Proverbs21:25 Some people will die while they are still hungry. That's because their hands refuse to work. 
Proverbs21:26 All day long they hunger for more. But godly people give without holding back. 
Proverbs21:27 God hates sacrifices that are brought by evil people. He hates it even more when they bring them for the wrong reason. 
Proverbs21:28 Witnesses who aren't honest will die. And anyone who listens to them will be destroyed forever. 
Proverbs21:29 A sinful man tries to look as if he were bold. But an honest person thinks about how he lives. 
Proverbs21:30 No wisdom, wise saying or plan can succeed against the Lord." 
Proverbs21:31 You can prepare a horse for the day of battle. But the power to win comes from the Lord. 
Proverbs22:1 You should want a good name more than you want great riches. To be highly respected is better than having silver or gold. 
Proverbs22:2 The Lord made rich people and poor people. That's what they have in common. 
Proverbs22:3 Wise people see danger and go to a safe place. But childish people keep going and suffer for it. 
Proverbs22:4 Have respect for the Lord and don't be proud. That will bring you wealth and honor and life. 
Proverbs22:5 Thorns and traps lie in the paths of evil people. But those who guard themselves stay far away from them. 
Proverbs22:6 Train a child in the way he should go. When he is old, he will not turn away from it." 
Proverbs22:7 Rich people rule over those who are poor. Borrowers are slaves to lenders. 
Proverbs22:8 Anyone who plants evil gathers a harvest of trouble. His power to beat others down will be destroyed. 
Proverbs22:9 Anyone who gives freely will be blessed. That's because he shares his food with those who are poor. 
Proverbs22:10 If you drive away those who make fun of others, fighting also goes away. Arguing and unkind words will stop." 
Proverbs22:11 Have a pure and loving heart, and speak kindly. Then you will be a friend of the king." 
Proverbs22:12 The eyes of the Lord keep watch over knowledge. But he does away with the words of those who aren't faithful. 
Proverbs22:13 People who don't want to work say, ""There's a lion outside!"" Or they say, ""I'll be murdered if I go out into the streets!""" 
Proverbs22:14 The mouth of a woman who commits adultery is like a deep pit. Any man the Lord is angry with will fall into it. 
Proverbs22:15 A child is going to do foolish things. But correcting him will drive his foolishness far away from him. 
Proverbs22:16 One person may beat poor people down in order to get rich. Another person may give gifts to rich people. Both of them will become poor. 
Proverbs22:17 Pay attention and listen to the sayings of those who are wise. Apply your heart to the sayings I teach. 
Proverbs22:18 It is pleasing when you keep them in your heart. Have all of them ready on your lips. 
Proverbs22:19 You are the one I am teaching today. I want you to trust in the Lord. 
Proverbs22:20 I have written 30 sayings for you. They will give you knowledge and good advice. 
Proverbs22:21 I am teaching you words that are completely true. Then you can give the right answers to the one who sent you. 
Proverbs22:22 Don't take advantage of poor people just because they are poor. Don't beat down those who are in need by taking them to court. 
Proverbs22:23 The Lord will stand up for them in court. He will take back the stolen goods from those who have robbed them. 
Proverbs22:24 Don't be a friend with anyone who burns with anger. Don't go around with a person who gets angry easily. 
Proverbs22:25 You might learn his habits. And then you will be trapped by them. 
Proverbs22:26 Don't agree to pay for what someone else owes. 
Proverbs22:27 Don't put up money for him. If you don't have the money to pay, your bed will be taken right out from under you!" 
Proverbs22:28 Don't move old boundary stones that your people set up long ago. 
Proverbs22:29 Do you see a man who does good work? He will serve kings. He won't serve ordinary people. 
Proverbs23:1 When you sit down to eat with a ruler, look carefully at what's in front of you." 
Proverbs23:2 Put a knife to your throat if you like to eat too much. 
Proverbs23:3 Don't long for his fancy food. It can fool you. 
Proverbs23:4 Don't wear yourself out to get rich. Be wise enough to say no. 
Proverbs23:5 When you take even a quick look at riches, they are gone. They grow wings and fly away into the sky like an eagle." 
Proverbs23:6 Don't eat the food of anyone who won't share it. Don't long for his fancy food. 
Proverbs23:7 He is the kind of person who is always thinking about how much it costs. Eat and drink,"" he says to you. But he doesn't mean it." 
Proverbs23:8 You will throw up what little you have eaten. You will have wasted your words of praise. 
Proverbs23:9 Don't speak to a foolish person. He will laugh at your wise words. 
Proverbs23:10 Don't move old boundary stones. Don't try to take over the fields of children whose fathers have died. 
Proverbs23:11 The One who guards them is strong. He will stand up for them in court against you. 
Proverbs23:12 Apply your heart to what you are taught. Listen carefully to words of knowledge. 
Proverbs23:13 Don't hold back training from a child. If you correct him, he won't die." 
Proverbs23:14 So correct him. Then you will save him from death. 
Proverbs23:15 My child, if your heart is wise, my heart will be glad." 
Proverbs23:16 Deep down inside, I will be happy when you say what is right." 
Proverbs23:17 Do not long for what sinners have. But always show great respect for the Lord. 
Proverbs23:18 There really is hope for you tomorrow. So your hope will not be cut off. 
Proverbs23:19 My child, listen and be wise. Keep your heart on the right path." 
Proverbs23:20 Don't join those who drink too much wine. Don't join those who stuff themselves with meat. 
Proverbs23:21 Those who drink or eat too much will become poor. If they sleep too much, they'll have to wear rags." 
Proverbs23:22 Listen to your father, who gave you life. Don't hate your mother when she is old." 
Proverbs23:23 Buy the truth. Don't sell it. Get wisdom, training and understanding." 
Proverbs23:24 The father of a godly child is very happy. Anyone who has a wise child is glad. 
Proverbs23:25 May your father and mother be glad. May the woman who gave birth to you be happy. 
Proverbs23:26 My son, give me your heart. Keep your eyes on the way I live." 
Proverbs23:27 A prostitute is like a deep pit. A wife who commits adultery is like a narrow well. 
Proverbs23:28 She hides and waits like a thief. She causes many men to sin. 
Proverbs23:29 Who has trouble? Who has sorrow? Who argues? Who has problems? Who has wounds for no reason? Who has red eyes? 
Proverbs23:30 Those who spend too much time with wine. Or those who like to taste wine that is mixed with spices. 
Proverbs23:31 Don't look at wine when it is red. Don't look at it when it bubbles in the cup. And don't look at it when it goes down smoothly. 
Proverbs23:32 In the end it bites like a snake. It bites like a poisonous serpent. 
Proverbs23:33 Your eyes will see strange sights. Your mind will imagine weird things. 
Proverbs23:34 You will feel like someone sleeping on the ocean. You will think you are lying among the ropes in a boat. 
Proverbs23:35 They hit me,"" you will say. ""But I'm not hurt! They beat me. But I don't feel it! When will I wake up so I can find another drink?""" 
Proverbs24:1 Do not want what evil men have. Don't long to be with them. 
Proverbs24:2 In their hearts they plan to hurt others. With their lips they talk about making trouble. 
Proverbs24:3 By wisdom a house is built. Through understanding it is made secure. 
Proverbs24:4 Through knowledge its rooms are filled with priceless and beautiful things. 
Proverbs24:5 A wise man has great power. A man who has knowledge increases his strength. 
Proverbs24:6 If you go to war, you need guidance. If you want to win, you need many good advisers." 
Proverbs24:7 Wisdom is too high for anyone who is foolish. He has nothing to say when people meet at the city gate to conduct business. 
Proverbs24:8 Anyone who thinks up sinful things to do will be known as one who plans evil. 
Proverbs24:9 Foolish plans are sinful. People hate those who make fun of others. 
Proverbs24:10 If you grow weak when trouble comes, your strength is very small!" 
Proverbs24:11 Save those who are being led away to death. Hold back those who are about to be killed. 
Proverbs24:12 Don't say, ""But we didn't know anything about this."" The One who knows what you are thinking sees it. The One who guards your life knows it. He will pay each person back for what he has done." 
Proverbs24:13 Eat honey, my child. It is good. Honey from a honeycomb has a sweet taste." 
Proverbs24:14 I want you to know that wisdom is sweet to you. If you find it, there is hope for you tomorrow. So your hope will not be cut off." 
Proverbs24:15 Don't hide and wait like a burglar at a godly person's house. Don't rob his home. 
Proverbs24:16 Even if godly people fall down seven times, they always get up. But those who are evil are brought down by trouble." 
Proverbs24:17 Don't be happy when your enemy falls. When he trips, don't let your heart be glad." 
Proverbs24:18 The Lord will see it, but he won't be pleased. He might turn his anger away from your enemy." 
Proverbs24:19 Don't be upset because of evil people. Don't long for what sinners have. 
Proverbs24:20 Tomorrow evil people won't have any hope. The lamps of sinners will be blown out. 
Proverbs24:21 My son, have respect for the Lord and the king. Don't join those who disobey them." 
Proverbs24:22 The Lord and the king will suddenly destroy them. Who knows what trouble those two can bring? 
Proverbs24:23 Here are more sayings of those who are wise. Taking sides in court is not good. 
Proverbs24:24 A curse will fall on those who say the guilty are not guilty. Nations will call down curses on them. People will speak against them. 
Proverbs24:25 But it will go well with those who sentence guilty people. Rich blessings will come to them. 
Proverbs24:26 An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips. 
Proverbs24:27 Finish your outdoor work. Get your fields ready. After that, build your house." 
Proverbs24:28 Don't give witness against your neighbor without any reason. Don't use your lips to tell lies. 
Proverbs24:29 Don't say, ""I'll do to him what he did to me. I'll get even with that man for what he did.""" 
Proverbs24:30 I went past the field of someone who didn't want to work. I went past the vineyard of a man who didn't have any sense. 
Proverbs24:31 Thorns had grown up everywhere. The ground was covered with weeds. The stone wall had fallen down. 
Proverbs24:32 I applied my heart to what I observed. I learned a lesson from what I saw. 
Proverbs24:33 You might sleep a little or take a little nap. You might even fold your hands and rest. 
Proverbs24:34 Then you would be poor, as if someone had robbed you. You would have little, as if someone had stolen from you." 
Proverbs25:1 These are more proverbs of Solomon. They were copied down by the men of Hezekiah, the king of Judah." 
Proverbs25:2 When God hides a matter, he gets glory. When kings figure out a matter, they get glory." 
Proverbs25:3 The heavens are high and the earth is deep. In the same way, the minds of kings are hard to figure out." 
Proverbs25:4 Remove the scum from the silver. Then the master worker can make something. 
Proverbs25:5 Remove sinful people from where the king is. When he does what is right, his kingdom will be secure." 
Proverbs25:6 Don't brag in front of the king. Don't claim a place among great people. 
Proverbs25:7 Let the king say to you, ""Come up here."" That's better than for him to shame you in front of nobles. What you have seen with your own eyes" 
Proverbs25:8 don't bring too quickly to court. What will you do in the end if your neighbor puts you to shame? 
Proverbs25:9 If you talk about a matter with your neighbor, don't tell others what was said." 
Proverbs25:10 If you do, someone might hear it and put you to shame. Then no one will ever respect you again." 
Proverbs25:11 The right word at the right time is like golden apples in silver jewelry. 
Proverbs25:12 A wise person's warning to a listening ear is like a gold earring or jewelry made of fine gold. 
Proverbs25:13 A messenger trusted by those who send him is like cool snow at harvest time. He renews the spirit of his masters. 
Proverbs25:14 A man who brags about gifts he doesn't give is like wind and clouds that don't produce rain. 
Proverbs25:15 If you are patient, you can win an official over to your side. And gentle words can break a bone." 
Proverbs25:16 If you find honey, eat just enough. If you eat too much of it, you will throw up." 
Proverbs25:17 Don't go to your neighbor's home very often. If he sees too much of you, he will hate you." 
Proverbs25:18 A man who gives false witness against his neighbor is like a club, a sword or a sharp arrow." 
Proverbs25:19 Trusting someone who is not faithful when trouble comes is like a bad tooth or a disabled foot. 
Proverbs25:20 You may sing songs to a troubled heart. But that's like taking a coat away on a cold day. It's like pouring vinegar on baking soda. 
Proverbs25:21 If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink." 
Proverbs25:22 By doing those things, you will pile up burning coals on his head. And the Lord will reward you." 
Proverbs25:23 The north wind brings rain. And a crafty tongue brings angry looks. 
Proverbs25:24 It is better to live on a corner of a roof than to share a house with a nagging wife. 
Proverbs25:25 Hearing good news from a land far away is like drinking cold water when you are tired. 
Proverbs25:26 Sometimes a godly person gives in to those who are evil. Then he becomes like a muddy spring of water or a polluted well. 
Proverbs25:27 It isn't good for you to eat too much honey. And you shouldn't try to get others to honor you. 
Proverbs25:28 A man who can't control himself is like a city whose walls are broken down. 
Proverbs26:1 It isn't proper to honor a foolish person. That's like having snow in summer or rain at harvest time. 
Proverbs26:2 A curse given for no reason is like a wandering bird or a flying sparrow. It doesn't go anywhere. 
Proverbs26:3 A whip is for a horse. A harness is for a donkey. And a beating is for the backs of foolish people. 
Proverbs26:4 Don't answer a foolish person in keeping with his foolish acts. If you do, you will be like him yourself." 
Proverbs26:5 Answer a foolish person in keeping with his foolish acts. If you do, he won't be wise in his own eyes." 
Proverbs26:6 Sending a message in the hand of a foolish person is like cutting off your feet or drinking something harmful. 
Proverbs26:7 A proverb in the mouth of a foolish person is like disabled legs that are useless. 
Proverbs26:8 Giving honor to a foolish person is like tying a stone in a slingshot. 
Proverbs26:9 A proverb in the mouth of a foolish person is like a thorn in the hand of someone who is drunk. 
Proverbs26:10 Anyone who hires a foolish person or someone who is passing by is like a person who shoots arrows at just anybody. 
Proverbs26:11 A foolish person who does the same foolish things again is like a dog that returns to where it has thrown up. 
Proverbs26:12 Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a foolish person than for him. 
Proverbs26:13 A person who doesn't want to work says, ""There's a lion in the road! There's an angry lion wandering in the streets!""" 
Proverbs26:14 A person who doesn't want to work turns over in bed just like a door that swings back and forth. 
Proverbs26:15 A person who doesn't want to work leaves his hand in the dish. He acts as if he is too tired to bring it back up to his mouth. 
Proverbs26:16 A person who doesn't want to work is wiser in his own eyes than seven people who give careful answers. 
Proverbs26:17 Don't get mixed up in someone else's fight as you are passing by. That's like picking a dog up by its ears. 
Proverbs26:18 Suppose a crazy person shoots flaming arrows that can kill. 
Proverbs26:19 A man who lies to his neighbor and says, ""I was only joking!"" is just like that person." 
Proverbs26:20 If you don't have wood, your fire goes out. If you don't talk about others, arguing dies down." 
Proverbs26:21 Coal glows. Wood burns. And a man who argues stirs up fights. 
Proverbs26:22 The words of anyone who talks about others are like tasty bites of food. They go deep down inside you. 
Proverbs26:23 Warm words that come from an evil heart are like shiny paint on a clay pot. 
Proverbs26:24 Someone who wants to hurt you uses his words to hide his hatred. But his heart is full of lies that cover up his evil plans. 
Proverbs26:25 What a person says can be charming. But don't believe him. Seven things that God hates can fill that person's heart. 
Proverbs26:26 Hatred can be hidden by lies. But what is evil will be shown to everyone. 
Proverbs26:27 If anyone digs a pit, he will fall into it. If he rolls a big stone, it will roll back on him." 
Proverbs26:28 A tongue that tells lies hates the people it hurts. And words that seem to praise you destroy you. 
Proverbs27:1 Don't brag about tomorrow. You don't know what a day will bring. 
Proverbs27:2 Let another person praise you, and not your own mouth. Let someone else praise you, and not your own lips." 
Proverbs27:3 Stones are heavy. Sand weighs a lot. But letting a foolish person make you angry is a heavier load than both of them. 
Proverbs27:4 Anger is mean. Great anger overpowers you. But who can face jealousy? 
Proverbs27:5 Being warned openly is better than being loved in secret. 
Proverbs27:6 Wounds from a friend can be trusted. But an enemy kisses you many times. 
Proverbs27:7 When you are full, you even hate honey. When you are hungry, even what is bitter tastes sweet." 
Proverbs27:8 A man who wanders away from his home is like a bird that wanders from its nest. 
Proverbs27:9 Perfume and incense bring joy to your heart. And a friend is sweeter when he gives you honest advice. 
Proverbs27:10 Don't desert your friend or your father's friend. And don't go to your family when trouble strikes you. A neighbor nearby is better than a family member far away. 
Proverbs27:11 My child, be wise and bring joy to my heart. Then I can answer anyone who makes fun of me." 
Proverbs27:12 Wise people see danger and go to a safe place. But childish people keep on going and suffer for it. 
Proverbs27:13 Take the coat of one who puts up money for what a stranger owes. Hold it until you get paid back if he does it for a woman who commits adultery. 
Proverbs27:14 Suppose you loudly bless your neighbor early in the morning. Then you might as well be calling down a curse on him. 
Proverbs27:15 A nagging wife is like dripping that never stops on a rainy day. 
Proverbs27:16 Stopping her is like trying to stop the wind. It's like trying to grab oil with your hand. 
Proverbs27:17 As iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens another." 
Proverbs27:18 A person who takes good care of a fig tree will eat its fruit. And a person who looks after his master will be honored. 
Proverbs27:19 When you look into water, you see a likeness of your face. When you look into your heart, you see what you are really like." 
Proverbs27:20 Death and the Grave are never satisfied. A man's eyes are never satisfied either. 
Proverbs27:21 Fire tests silver. Heat tests gold. But a man is tested by the praise he receives. 
Proverbs27:22 You can grind a foolish person in a mill. You can grind him as you would grind grain with a tool. But you can't remove his foolishness from him. 
Proverbs27:23 Be sure you know how your flocks are doing. Pay careful attention to your herds. 
Proverbs27:24 Riches don't last forever. And a crown is not secure for all time to come. 
Proverbs27:25 The hay is removed, and new growth appears. The grass from the hills is gathered in." 
Proverbs27:26 Then your lambs will provide you with clothes. And the money from selling your goats will buy you a field. 
Proverbs27:27 You will have plenty of goats' milk. It will feed you and your family. It will also feed your female servants. 
Proverbs28:1 Sinners run away even when no one is chasing them. But those who do what is right are as bold as lions. 
Proverbs28:2 A country has many rulers when its people don't obey. But an understanding king knows how to keep order. 
Proverbs28:3 A ruler who beats poor people down is like a pounding rain that leaves no crops. 
Proverbs28:4 Those who turn away from the law praise sinners. But those who obey the law oppose them. 
Proverbs28:5 Sinful men don't understand what is fair. But those who worship the Lord understand it completely. 
Proverbs28:6 It is better to be poor and live without blame than to be rich and follow a crooked path. 
Proverbs28:7 A child who obeys the law understands what is right. But a child who likes to eat too much brings shame on his father. 
Proverbs28:8 A person who increases his wealth by charging high interest piles it up for someone who will be kind to poor people. 
Proverbs28:9 If you don't pay attention to the law, even your prayers are hated." 
Proverbs28:10 Those who lead honest people down an evil path will fall into their own trap. But those who are without blame will receive good things. 
Proverbs28:11 Rich people may be wise in their own eyes. But a poor person who understands what is right knows what they are really like. 
Proverbs28:12 When godly people win, everyone is very happy. But when sinners take charge, everyone hides." 
Proverbs28:13 Anyone who hides his sins doesn't succeed. But anyone who admits his sins and gives them up finds mercy. 
Proverbs28:14 Blessed is the one who always has respect for the Lord. But anyone who is stubborn will get into trouble. 
Proverbs28:15 An evil person who rules over helpless people is like a roaring lion or an angry bear. 
Proverbs28:16 A ruler who is mean to his people doesn't have any sense. But anyone who hates money gained in the wrong way will enjoy a long life. 
Proverbs28:17 A man who is troubled because he is guilty of murder will be on the run until the day he dies. No one should give him any help. 
Proverbs28:18 Anyone who lives without blame is kept safe. But anyone whose path is crooked will suddenly fall. 
Proverbs28:19 Anyone who farms his land will have plenty of food. But anyone who chases dreams will be very poor. 
Proverbs28:20 A faithful man will be richly blessed. But anyone who wants to get rich will be punished. 
Proverbs28:21 Favoring one person over another is not good. But some men will do wrong for a piece of bread. 
Proverbs28:22 A man who won't share what he has wants to get rich. He doesn't know he is going to be poor. 
Proverbs28:23 It is better to warn a man than to pretend to praise him. In the end he will be more pleased with you. 
Proverbs28:24 Anyone who steals from his parents and says, ""It's not wrong,"" is just like a man who destroys." 
Proverbs28:25 A person who always wants more stirs up fights. But anyone who trusts in the Lord will succeed. 
Proverbs28:26 Anyone who trusts in himself is foolish. But a person who lives wisely is kept safe. 
Proverbs28:27 Those who give to poor people will have everything they need. But those who close their eyes to the poor will be under many curses. 
Proverbs28:28 When those who are evil take charge, other people hide. But when those who are evil die, godly people grow stronger." 
Proverbs29:1 A man who still won't obey after being warned many times will suddenly be destroyed. Nothing can save him. 
Proverbs29:2 When those who do right grow stronger, the people are glad. But when those who do wrong become rulers, the people groan." 
Proverbs29:3 A man who loves wisdom makes his father glad. But a man who spends time with prostitutes wastes his father's wealth. 
Proverbs29:4 By doing what is fair, a king makes a country secure. But the one who wants to be paid off tears it down." 
Proverbs29:5 A man who only pretends to praise his neighbor is spreading a net to catch him by the feet. 
Proverbs29:6 A sinful man is trapped by his own sin. But a godly person can sing and be glad. 
Proverbs29:7 Those who do what is right want to treat poor people fairly. But those who do what is wrong don't care about the poor. 
Proverbs29:8 Those who make fun of others stir up a city. But wise people turn anger away. 
Proverbs29:9 Suppose a wise man goes to court with a foolish person. Then the foolish person gets mad and pokes fun. And there is no peace. 
Proverbs29:10 Murderers hate honest people. They try to kill those who do what is right. 
Proverbs29:11 A foolish person lets his anger run wild. But a wise person keeps himself under control. 
Proverbs29:12 If rulers listen to lies, all their officials become evil." 
Proverbs29:13 The Lord gives sight to the eyes of poor people and those who beat others down. That's what they both have in common. 
Proverbs29:14 If a king judges poor people fairly, his throne will always be secure." 
Proverbs29:15 If a child is corrected, he becomes wise. But a child left to himself brings shame to his mother." 
Proverbs29:16 When those who do wrong grow stronger, so does sin. But those who do right will see them destroyed." 
Proverbs29:17 If you train your children, they will give you peace. They will bring delight to you." 
Proverbs29:18 Where there is no message from God, the people don't control themselves. But blessed are those who obey the law." 
Proverbs29:19 A servant can't be corrected only by words. Even if he understands, he won't obey." 
Proverbs29:20 Have you seen a man who speaks without thinking? There is more hope for foolish people than for him. 
Proverbs29:21 If you spoil your servant while he is young, he will bring you sorrow later on." 
Proverbs29:22 An angry man stirs up fights. And a person who burns with anger commits many sins. 
Proverbs29:23 If a man is proud, he will be made low. But if he isn't proud, he will be honored." 
Proverbs29:24 Anyone who helps a thief is his own enemy. When he is put under oath, he doesn't dare give witness." 
Proverbs29:25 If you are afraid of people, it will trap you. But if you trust in the Lord, he will keep you safe." 
Proverbs29:26 Many people want to meet a ruler. But only the Lord sees that people are treated fairly. 
Proverbs29:27 Those who do what is right hate dishonest people. Those who do what is wrong hate honest people. 
Proverbs30:1 These sayings are the words of Agur, son of Jakeh. He spoke them as if they came from God. He spoke them to Ithiel and to Ucal." 
Proverbs30:2 He said, ""I know less than anyone. I don't understand as other men do." 
Proverbs30:3 I haven't learned wisdom. And I don't know the Holy One. 
Proverbs30:4 Who has gone up to heaven and come down? Who has gathered up the wind in the palms of his hands? Who has wrapped up the waters in his coat? Who has set all the boundaries of the earth in place? What is his name? What is his son's name? Tell me if you know! 
Proverbs30:5 Every word of God is perfect. He is like a shield to those who trust in him. He keeps them safe. 
Proverbs30:6 Don't add to his words. If you do, he will correct you. He will prove that you are a liar." 
Proverbs30:7 Lord, I ask you for two things. Don't refuse me before I die." 
Proverbs30:8 Keep lies far away from me. Don't make me either poor or rich, but give me only the bread I need each day." 
Proverbs30:9 If you don't, I might have too much. Then I might say I don't know you. I might say, 'Who is the Lord?' Or I might become poor and steal. Then I would bring shame to the name of my God." 
Proverbs30:10 Don't tell lies about a servant when you talk to his master. If you do, he will call down curses on you. And you will pay for it." 
Proverbs30:11 Some people call down curses on their fathers. Others don't bless their mothers. 
Proverbs30:12 Some are pure in their own eyes. But their dirty sins haven't been washed away. 
Proverbs30:13 Some have eyes that are very proud. They look down on others. 
Proverbs30:14 Some people have teeth like swords. The teeth in their jaws are as sharp as knives. They are ready to eat up the poor people of the earth. They are ready to eat up those who are the most needy. 
Proverbs30:15 A bloodsucking worm has two daughters. They cry out, 'Give! Give!' ""Three things are never satisfied. Four things never say, 'Enough!'" 
Proverbs30:16 The first is the grave. The second is a woman who can't have a baby. The third is land. It never gets enough water. And the fourth is fire. It never says, 'Enough!'" 
Proverbs30:17 Some make fun of their fathers. Others laugh about obeying their mothers. The ravens of the valley will peck their eyes out. Then the vultures will eat them. 
Proverbs30:18 Three things are too amazing for me. There are four things I don't understand. 
Proverbs30:19 The first is the way of an eagle in the sky. The second is the way of a snake on a rock. The third is the way of a ship on the ocean. And the fourth is the way of a man with a young woman. 
Proverbs30:20 This is the way of a woman who commits adultery. She eats. She wipes her mouth. Then she says, 'I haven't done anything wrong.'" 
Proverbs30:21 Under three things the earth shakes. Under four things it can't stand up. 
Proverbs30:22 The first is a servant who becomes a king. The second is a foolish person who is full of food. 
Proverbs30:23 The third is a woman who is married but not loved by her husband. And the fourth is a woman servant who takes the place of the woman she works for. 
Proverbs30:24 Four things on earth are small. But they are very wise. 
Proverbs30:25 The first are ants. They aren't very strong. But they store up their food in the summer. 
Proverbs30:26 The second are rock badgers. They aren't very powerful. But they make their home among the rocks. 
Proverbs30:27 The third are locusts. They don't have a king. But they all march forward in ranks. 
Proverbs30:28 And the fourth are lizards. Your hand can catch them. But you will find them in kings' palaces. 
Proverbs30:29 Three things walk as if they were kings. Four things move as kings do. 
Proverbs30:30 The first is a lion. It is mighty among the animals. It doesn't back away from anything. 
Proverbs30:31 The second is a rooster that walks proudly. The third is a billy goat. And the fourth is a king who has his army around him. 
Proverbs30:32 Have you been foolish? Have you thought you were better than others? Have you planned evil? If you have, put your hand over your mouth and stop talking!" 
Proverbs30:33 If you churn cream, you will produce butter. If you twist a nose, you will produce blood. And if you stir up anger, you will produce a fight.""" 
Proverbs31:1 These are the sayings of King Lemuel. His mother taught them to him. She spoke them as if they came from God. 
Proverbs31:2 She said, ""My son! My very own son! The son I prayed for!" 
Proverbs31:3 Don't waste your strength on women. Don't waste it on those who destroy kings. 
Proverbs31:4 Lemuel, it isn't good for kings to drink wine. It isn't good for rulers to long for beer." 
Proverbs31:5 If they do, they might drink and forget what the law commands. They might take away the rights of all those who are beaten down." 
Proverbs31:6 Give beer to those who are dying. Give wine to those who are sad and troubled. 
Proverbs31:7 Let them drink and forget how poor they are. Let them forget their suffering. 
Proverbs31:8 Speak up for those who can't speak for themselves. Speak up for the rights of all those who are poor. 
Proverbs31:9 Speak up and judge fairly. Speak up for the rights of those who are poor and needy. 
Proverbs31:10 Who can find a noble wife? She is worth far more than rubies. 
Proverbs31:11 Her husband trusts her completely. She gives him all the important things he needs. 
Proverbs31:12 She brings him good, not harm, all the days of her life." 
Proverbs31:13 She chooses wool and flax. She loves to work with her hands. 
Proverbs31:14 She is like the ships of traders. She brings her food from far away. 
Proverbs31:15 She gets up while it is still dark. She provides food for her family. She also gives some to her female servants. 
Proverbs31:16 She considers a field and buys it. She uses some of the money she earns to plant a vineyard. 
Proverbs31:17 She gets ready to work hard. Her arms are strong. 
Proverbs31:18 She sees that her trading earns a lot of money. Her lamp doesn't go out at night. 
Proverbs31:19 With one hand she holds the wool. With the other she spins the thread. 
Proverbs31:20 She opens her arms to those who are poor. She reaches out her hands to those who are needy. 
Proverbs31:21 When it snows, she's not afraid for her family. All of them are dressed in the finest clothes." 
Proverbs31:22 She makes her own bed coverings. She is dressed in fine linen and purple clothes. 
Proverbs31:23 Her husband is respected at the city gate. There he takes his seat among the elders of the land. 
Proverbs31:24 She makes linen clothes and sells them. She supplies belts to the traders. 
Proverbs31:25 She puts on strength and honor as if they were her clothes. She can laugh at the days that are coming. 
Proverbs31:26 She speaks wisely. She teaches faithfully. 
Proverbs31:27 She watches over family matters. She is busy all the time. 
Proverbs31:28 Her children stand up and call her blessed. Her husband also rises up, and he praises her." 
Proverbs31:29 He says, ""Many women do noble things. But you are better than all the others.""" 
Proverbs31:30 Charm can fool you. Beauty fades. But a woman who has respect for the Lord should be praised. 
Proverbs31:31 Give her the reward she has earned. Let everything she has done bring praise to her at the city gate. 
Ecclesiastes1:1 These are the words of the Teacher. He was the son of David. He was also king in Jerusalem. 
Ecclesiastes1:2 Meaningless! Everything is meaningless! says the Teacher. Everything is completely meaningless! Nothing has any meaning. 
Ecclesiastes1:3 What does a man get for all of his work? Why does he work so hard on this earth? 
Ecclesiastes1:4 People come and people go. But the earth remains forever. 
Ecclesiastes1:5 The sun rises. Then it sets. And then it hurries back to where it rises. 
Ecclesiastes1:6 The wind blows to the south. Then it turns to the north. Around and around it goes. It always returns to where it started. 
Ecclesiastes1:7 Every stream flows into the ocean. But the ocean never gets full. The streams return to the place they came from. 
Ecclesiastes1:8 All things are tiresome. They are more tiresome than anyone can say. But our eyes never see enough of anything. Our ears never hear enough. 
Ecclesiastes1:9 Everything that has ever been will come back again. Everything that has ever been done will be done again. Nothing is new on earth. 
Ecclesiastes1:10 There isn't anything about which someone can say, ""Look! Here's something new."" It was already here long ago. It was here before we were." 
Ecclesiastes1:11 No one remembers the men of long ago. Even those who haven't been born yet won't be remembered by those who will be born after them. 
Ecclesiastes1:12 I, the Teacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem." 
Ecclesiastes1:13 I spent all of my time studying. I used my wisdom to check everything out. I looked into everything that is done on earth. What a heavy load God has put on men! 
Ecclesiastes1:14 I've seen what is done on this earth. It doesn't have any meaning. It's like chasing the wind. 
Ecclesiastes1:15 People can't straighten things that are twisted. They can't count things that don't even exist. 
Ecclesiastes1:16 I said to myself, ""Look, my wisdom has really been growing. In fact, I'm now wiser than anyone who ruled over Jerusalem in the past. I have a lot of wisdom and knowledge.""" 
Ecclesiastes1:17 Then I used my mind to understand what it really means to be wise. And I wanted to know what foolish pleasure is all about. But I found out that that's also like chasing the wind. 
Ecclesiastes1:18 A lot of human wisdom leads to a lot of sorrow. More knowledge only brings more sadness. 
Ecclesiastes2:1 I said to myself, ""Come on. I'll put pleasure to the test. I want to find out what is good."" But that also proved to be meaningless." 
Ecclesiastes2:2 Laughter is foolish,"" I said. ""And what can pleasure do for me?""" 
Ecclesiastes2:3 I tried cheering myself up by drinking wine. I even tried living in a foolish way. But wisdom was still guiding my mind. I wanted to see what was really important for men to do on earth during the few days of their lives. 
Ecclesiastes2:4 So I started some large projects. I built houses for myself. I planted vineyards. 
Ecclesiastes2:5 I made gardens and parks. I planted all kinds of fruit trees in them. 
Ecclesiastes2:6 I made lakes to water groves of healthy trees. 
Ecclesiastes2:7 I bought male and female slaves. And I had other slaves who were born in my house. I also owned more herds and flocks than anyone in Jerusalem ever had before. 
Ecclesiastes2:8 I stored up silver and gold for myself. I gathered up the treasures of kings and their kingdoms. I got some male and female singers. I also got many women for myself. Women delight the hearts of men. 
Ecclesiastes2:9 I became far more important than anyone in Jerusalem had ever been before. And in spite of everything, I didn't lose my wisdom." 
Ecclesiastes2:10 I gave myself everything my eyes wanted. There wasn't any pleasure that I refused to give myself. I took delight in everything I did. And that was what I got for all of my work. 
Ecclesiastes2:11 But then I looked over everything my hands had done. I saw what I had worked so hard to get. And nothing had any meaning. It was like chasing the wind. Nothing was gained on this earth. 
Ecclesiastes2:12 I decided to think about wisdom. I also thought about foolish pleasure. What more can a new king do? Can he do anything more than others have already done? 
Ecclesiastes2:13 I saw that wisdom is better than foolishness, just as light is better than darkness." 
Ecclesiastes2:14 The eyes of a wise man see things clearly. A person who is foolish lives in darkness. But I finally realized that death catches up with both of them. 
Ecclesiastes2:15 Then I thought, ""What happens to a foolish person will catch up with me too. So what do I gain by being wise?"" I said to myself, ""That doesn't have any meaning either.""" 
Ecclesiastes2:16 Like a foolish person, a wise man won't be remembered very long. In days to come, both of them will be forgotten. Like a person who is foolish, a wise man must die too!" 
Ecclesiastes2:17 So I hated life. That's because the work that is done on this earth made me sad. None of it has any meaning. It's like chasing the wind. 
Ecclesiastes2:18 I hated everything I had worked for on earth. I'll have to leave all of it to someone who lives after me. 
Ecclesiastes2:19 And who knows whether he will be wise or foolish? Either way, he'll take over everything on earth I've worked so hard for. That doesn't have any meaning either." 
Ecclesiastes2:20 So I began to lose hope because of all of my hard work on this earth. 
Ecclesiastes2:21 A man might use wisdom, knowledge and skill to do his work. But then he has to leave everything he owns to someone who hasn't worked for it. That doesn't have any meaning either. In fact, it isn't fair." 
Ecclesiastes2:22 What does a man get for all of his hard work on earth? What does he get for all of his worries? 
Ecclesiastes2:23 As long as he lives, his work is nothing but pain and sorrow. Even at night his mind can't rest. That doesn't have any meaning either." 
Ecclesiastes2:24 A man can't do anything better than eat and drink and be satisfied with his work. I'm finally seeing that those things also come from the hand of God. 
Ecclesiastes2:25 Without his help, who can eat or find pleasure?" 
Ecclesiastes2:26 God gives wisdom, knowledge and happiness to a man who pleases him. But to a sinner he gives the task of gathering and storing up wealth. Then the sinner must hand it over to the one who pleases God. That doesn't have any meaning either. It's like chasing the wind." 
Ecclesiastes3:1 There is a time for everything. There's a time for everything that is done on earth. 
Ecclesiastes3:2 There is a time to be born. And there's a time to die. There is a time to plant. And there's a time to pull up what is planted. 
Ecclesiastes3:3 There is a time to kill. And there's a time to heal. There is a time to tear down. And there's a time to build up. 
Ecclesiastes3:4 There is a time to cry. And there's a time to laugh. There is a time to be sad. And there's a time to dance. 
Ecclesiastes3:5 There is a time to scatter stones. And there's a time to gather them. There is a time to hug. And there's a time not to hug. 
Ecclesiastes3:6 There is a time to search. And there's a time to stop searching. There is a time to keep. And there's a time to throw away. 
Ecclesiastes3:7 There is a time to tear. And there's a time to mend. There is a time to be silent. And there's a time to speak. 
Ecclesiastes3:8 There is a time to love. And there's a time to hate. There is a time for war. And there's a time for peace. 
Ecclesiastes3:9 What does the worker get for his hard work? 
Ecclesiastes3:10 I've seen the heavy load God has put on men. 
Ecclesiastes3:11 He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also given men a sense of what he's been doing down through the ages. But they can't completely figure out what he's done from the beginning to the end. 
Ecclesiastes3:12 They should be happy and do good while they live. I know there's nothing better for them to do than that. 
Ecclesiastes3:13 Everyone should eat and drink. People should be satisfied with all of their hard work. That is God's gift to them. 
Ecclesiastes3:14 I know that everything God does will last forever. Nothing can be added to it. And nothing can be taken from it. God does that so men will have respect for him. 
Ecclesiastes3:15 Everything that now exists has already been. And what is coming has existed before. God will judge those who treat others badly. 
Ecclesiastes3:16 Here's something else I saw on earth. Where people should be treated right, they are treated wrong. Where people should be treated fairly, they are treated unfairly." 
Ecclesiastes3:17 I said to myself, ""God will judge godly and sinful people alike. He has a time for every act. He has a time for everything that is done.""" 
Ecclesiastes3:18 I also thought, ""God puts human beings to the test. Then they can see they are just like animals." 
Ecclesiastes3:19 What happens to animals happens to people too. Death waits for people and animals alike. People die, just as animals do. All of them have the same breath. People don't have any advantage over animals. Nothing has any meaning." 
Ecclesiastes3:20 People and animals go to the same place. All of them come from dust. And all of them return to dust. 
Ecclesiastes3:21 Who can know whether the spirit of a man goes up? Who can tell whether the spirit of an animal goes down into the earth? 
Ecclesiastes3:22 So man should enjoy his work. That's what God made him for. I saw that there's nothing better for him to do than that. After all, who can show him what will happen after he is gone?" 
Ecclesiastes4:1 I looked and saw how much people were suffering on this earth. I saw the tears of those who are suffering. They don't have anyone to comfort them. Power is on the side of those who beat them down. Those who are suffering don't have anyone to comfort them. 
Ecclesiastes4:2 Then I announced that those who have already died are happier than those who are still alive. 
Ecclesiastes4:3 But someone who hasn't been born yet is better off than the dead or the living. That's because he hasn't seen the evil things that are done on earth. 
Ecclesiastes4:4 I also saw that man works hard and accomplishes a lot. But he does it only because he wants what his neighbor has. That doesn't have any meaning either. It's like chasing the wind. 
Ecclesiastes4:5 A foolish person folds his hands and doesn't work. And that destroys him. 
Ecclesiastes4:6 One handful with peace and quiet is better than two handfuls with hard work. Working too hard is like chasing the wind. 
Ecclesiastes4:7 Again I saw something on earth that didn't mean anything. 
Ecclesiastes4:8 A man lived all by himself. He didn't have any sons or brothers. His hard work never ended. But he wasn't happy with what he had. Who am I working so hard for? he asked. Why don't I get the things I enjoy? That doesn't have any meaning either. In fact, it's a very bad deal!" 
Ecclesiastes4:9 Two people are better than one. They can help each other in everything they do. 
Ecclesiastes4:10 Suppose someone falls down. Then his friend can help him up. But suppose the man who falls down doesn't have anyone to help him up. Then feel sorry for him! 
Ecclesiastes4:11 Or suppose two people lie down together. Then they'll keep warm. But how can one person keep warm alone? 
Ecclesiastes4:12 One person could be overpowered. But two people can stand up for themselves. And a rope made out of three cords isn't easily broken. 
Ecclesiastes4:13 A poor but wise young man is better off than an old but foolish king. That king doesn't pay attention to a warning anymore. 
Ecclesiastes4:14 The young man might have come from prison to become king. Or he might have been born poor within the kingdom but still became king. 
Ecclesiastes4:15 I saw that everyone was following the young man who had become the new king. 
Ecclesiastes4:16 At first, all of the people served him when he became king. But those who came later weren't pleased with the way he was ruling. That doesn't have any meaning either. It's like chasing the wind." 
Ecclesiastes5:1 Be careful what you say when you go to God's house. Go there to listen. Don't be like foolish people when you offer your sacrifice. They do what is wrong and don't even know it. 
Ecclesiastes5:2 Don't be too quick to speak. Don't be in a hurry to say anything to God. He is in heaven. You are on earth. So use only a few words when you speak. 
Ecclesiastes5:3 Dreams come to people when they worry a lot. When foolish people talk, they use too many words." 
Ecclesiastes5:4 When you make a promise to God, don't wait too long to carry it out. He isn't pleased with foolish people. So do what you have promised." 
Ecclesiastes5:5 It is better to make no promise at all than to make a promise and not keep it. 
Ecclesiastes5:6 Don't let your mouth cause you to sin. Don't object to the temple messenger. Don't say, ""My promise was a mistake."" Why should God be angry with what you say? Why should he destroy what you have done?" 
Ecclesiastes5:7 Dreaming too much and talking too much are meaningless. So have respect for God. 
Ecclesiastes5:8 Suppose you see poor people being mistreated somewhere. And what is being done to them isn't right or fair. Don't be surprised by that. One official is watched by a higher one. Others who are even higher are watching both of them. 
Ecclesiastes5:9 All of them take what the land produces. And the king himself takes his share from the fields. 
Ecclesiastes5:10 Anyone who loves money never has enough. Anyone who loves wealth is never satisfied with what he gets. That doesn't have any meaning either. 
Ecclesiastes5:11 As more and more goods are made, more and more people use them up. So how can those goods benefit their owner? All he can do is look at them with longing." 
Ecclesiastes5:12 The sleep of a worker is sweet. It doesn't matter whether he eats a little or a lot. But the wealth of a rich man keeps him awake at night. 
Ecclesiastes5:13 I've seen something very evil on earth. It's when wealth is stored up and then brings harm to its owner. 
Ecclesiastes5:14 It's also when wealth is lost because of an unwise business deal. Then there won't be anything left for the owner's son. 
Ecclesiastes5:15 A man is born naked. He comes into the world with nothing. And he goes out of it with nothing. He doesn't get anything from his work that he can take with him. 
Ecclesiastes5:16 Here's something else that is very evil. A man is born, and a man dies. And what does he get for his work? Nothing. It's like working for the wind." 
Ecclesiastes5:17 All his life he eats in darkness. His life is full of trouble, suffering and anger." 
Ecclesiastes5:18 I realized that it's good and proper for a man to eat and drink. It's good for him to be satisfied with his hard work on this earth. That's what he should do during the few days of life God has given him. That's what God made him for. 
Ecclesiastes5:19 Sometimes God gives a man wealth and possessions. He makes it possible for him to enjoy them. He helps him accept the life he has given him. He helps him to be happy in his work. All of those things are gifts from God. 
Ecclesiastes5:20 A man like that doesn't have to think about how his life is going. That's because God fills his heart with joy. 
Ecclesiastes6:1 I've seen another evil thing on this earth. And it's a heavy load on men. 
Ecclesiastes6:2 God gives a man wealth, possessions and honor. He has everything his heart longs for. But God doesn't let him enjoy those things. Instead, strangers enjoy them. That doesn't have any meaning. It's a very evil thing." 
Ecclesiastes6:3 A man might have a hundred children. He might live a long time. But suppose he can't enjoy his wealth. And suppose he isn't buried in the proper way. Then it doesn't matter how long he lives. I'm telling you that a baby that is born dead is better off than he is. 
Ecclesiastes6:4 That kind of birth doesn't have any meaning. The baby dies in darkness and leaves this world. And in darkness it is forgotten. 
Ecclesiastes6:5 It didn't even see the sun. It didn't know anything at all. But it has more rest than that man does. 
Ecclesiastes6:6 And that's true even if he lives for 2,000 years but doesn't get to enjoy his wealth. All people die and go to the grave, don't they?" 
Ecclesiastes6:7 Man eats up everything he works to get. But he is never satisfied. 
Ecclesiastes6:8 What advantage does a wise man have over someone who is foolish? What does a poor man gain by knowing how to act toward others? 
Ecclesiastes6:9 Being satisfied with what you have is better than always wanting more. That doesn't have any meaning either. It's like chasing the wind. 
Ecclesiastes6:10 God has already planned what now exists. He has already decided what man is. A man can't argue with the One who is stronger than he is. 
Ecclesiastes6:11 The more words people use, the less meaning there is. And that doesn't help anyone." 
Ecclesiastes6:12 Who knows what's good for a man? He lives for only a few meaningless days. He passes through life like a shadow. Who can tell him what will happen on earth after he is gone? 
Ecclesiastes7:1 A good name is better than fine perfume. People can learn more from sobbing when someone dies than from being happy when someone is born. 
Ecclesiastes7:2 So it's better to go where people are sobbing than to go where people are having a good time. Everyone will die someday. Those who are still living should really think about that. 
Ecclesiastes7:3 Sadness is good for the heart. That's why sorrow is better than laughter. 
Ecclesiastes7:4 Those who are wise are found where there is sorrow. But foolish people are found where there is pleasure. 
Ecclesiastes7:5 Pay attention to a wise man's warning. That's better than listening to the songs of those who are foolish. 
Ecclesiastes7:6 A foolish person's laughter is like the crackling of thorns burning under a pot. That doesn't have any meaning either. 
Ecclesiastes7:7 When a wise man takes wealth by force, he becomes foolish. It is sinful to take money from people who want special favors." 
Ecclesiastes7:8 The end of a matter is better than its beginning. So it's better to be patient than proud. 
Ecclesiastes7:9 Don't become angry quickly. Anger lives in the hearts of foolish people. 
Ecclesiastes7:10 Don't say, ""Why were things better in the good old days?"" It isn't wise to ask that kind of question." 
Ecclesiastes7:11 Wisdom is a good thing. It's like getting a share of the family wealth. It benefits those who live on this earth. 
Ecclesiastes7:12 Wisdom provides safety, just as money provides safety. But here's the advantage of wisdom. It guards the lives of those who have it." 
Ecclesiastes7:13 Think about what God has done. Who can make straight what he has made crooked? 
Ecclesiastes7:14 When times are good, be happy. But when times are bad, here's something to think about. God has made bad times. He has also made good times. So a man can't find out anything about what's ahead for him." 
Ecclesiastes7:15 In my meaningless life here's what I've seen. I've seen a godly man dying even though he is godly. And I've seen a sinful man living a long time even though he is sinful. 
Ecclesiastes7:16 Don't claim to be better than you are. And don't claim to be wiser than you are. Why destroy yourself? 
Ecclesiastes7:17 Don't be too sinful. And don't be foolish. Why die before your time comes? 
Ecclesiastes7:18 It's good to hold on to both of those things. Don't let go of either one. A man who has respect for God will avoid going too far in either direction. 
Ecclesiastes7:19 Wisdom makes one wise man more powerful than ten rulers in a city. 
Ecclesiastes7:20 There isn't anyone on earth who does only what is right and never sins. 
Ecclesiastes7:21 Don't pay attention to everything people say. If you do, you might hear your servant calling down a curse on you." 
Ecclesiastes7:22 Many times you yourself have called down curses on others. Deep down inside, you know that's true." 
Ecclesiastes7:23 I used wisdom to put all of those things to the test. I said, ""I've made up my mind to be wise."" But it was more than I could accomplish." 
Ecclesiastes7:24 No matter what else wisdom may be, it's far away and very deep. Who can find it?" 
Ecclesiastes7:25 So I tried to understand wisdom more completely. I wanted to study it and figure it out. I tried to find out everything I could about it. I tried to understand why it's foolish to be evil. I wanted to see why choosing foolishness is so unwise. 
Ecclesiastes7:26 A woman who hunts a man down is more painful than death. Her heart is like a trap. Her hands are like chains. A man who pleases God will try to get away from her. But she will trap a sinner. 
Ecclesiastes7:27 Look,"" says the Teacher. ""Here's what I've discovered. ""I added one thing to another to find out everything I could about wisdom." 
Ecclesiastes7:28 I searched and searched but found very little. I did find one honest man among a thousand. But I didn't find one honest woman among a thousand. 
Ecclesiastes7:29 Here's the only other thing I found. God made men honest. But they've made many evil plans. 
Ecclesiastes8:1 Who is like a wise man? Who knows how to explain things? Wisdom makes a man's face bright. It softens the look on his face. 
Ecclesiastes8:2 I'm telling you to obey the king's command. You took an oath to serve him. You made a promise to God. 
Ecclesiastes8:3 Don't be in a hurry to quit your job in the palace. Don't stand up for something the king doesn't like. He'll do anything he wants to. 
Ecclesiastes8:4 He has the final word. So who can ask him, ""What are you doing?""" 
Ecclesiastes8:5 No one who obeys his command will be harmed. Those who are wise will know the proper time and way to approach him. 
Ecclesiastes8:6 There's a proper time and way for people to do everything. That's true even though a man might be suffering greatly. 
Ecclesiastes8:7 No one knows what lies ahead. So who can tell a person what's going to happen? 
Ecclesiastes8:8 He can't stop the wind from blowing. And he doesn't have the power to decide when he will die. No one is let out of the army in times of war. And evil won't let go of those who practice it. 
Ecclesiastes8:9 I understood all of those things. I used my mind to study everything that's done on earth. A man sometimes makes life hard for others. But he ends up hurting himself. 
Ecclesiastes8:10 I also saw sinful people being buried. They used to come and go from the place of worship. And others praised them in the city where they worshiped. That doesn't have any meaning either. 
Ecclesiastes8:11 Sometimes the sentence for a crime isn't carried out quickly. So people make plans to commit even more crimes. 
Ecclesiastes8:12 An evil man may be guilty of a hundred crimes and still live a long time. But I know that things will go better with men who have great respect for God. 
Ecclesiastes8:13 Sinful people don't respect God. So things won't go well with them. Like a shadow, they won't be around very long." 
Ecclesiastes8:14 Here's something else on this earth that doesn't have any meaning. Sometimes godly men get what sinful people should receive. And sinful men get what godly people should receive. Here's what I'm telling you. That doesn't have any meaning either. 
Ecclesiastes8:15 So I advise everyone to enjoy life. A man on this earth can't do anything better than eat and drink and be glad. Then he will enjoy his work. He'll be happy all the days of the life God has given him on earth. 
Ecclesiastes8:16 I used my mind to understand what it really means to be wise. I wanted to observe the hard work man does on earth. He doesn't close his eyes and go to sleep day or night. 
Ecclesiastes8:17 I saw everything God has done. No one can understand what happens on earth. Man might try very hard to figure it out. But he still can't discover what it all means. A wise man might claim he knows. But he can't really understand it either. 
Ecclesiastes9:1 I thought about all of those things. I realized that those who are wise and do what is right are under God's control. What they do is also under his control. But a man doesn't know whether God will show favor to him. 
Ecclesiastes9:2 Everyone will die someday. Death comes to godly and sinful people alike. It comes to good and bad people alike. It comes to clean and unclean people alike. Those who offer sacrifices and those who don't offer them also die. A good person dies, and so does a sinner. Those who take oaths die. So do those who are afraid to take them." 
Ecclesiastes9:3 Here's what is so bad about everything that happens on this earth. Death catches up with all of us. Also, the hearts of people are full of evil. They live in foolish pleasure. After that, they join those who have already died." 
Ecclesiastes9:4 Anyone who is living still has hope. Even a live dog is better off than a dead lion! 
Ecclesiastes9:5 People who are still alive know they'll die. But those who have died don't know anything. They don't receive any more rewards. And they are soon forgotten. 
Ecclesiastes9:6 Their love, hate and jealousy disappear. They will never share again in anything that happens on earth." 
Ecclesiastes9:7 Go and enjoy your food. Be joyful as you drink your wine. Now is the time God favors what you do. 
Ecclesiastes9:8 Always wear white clothes to show you are happy. Anoint your head with olive oil. 
Ecclesiastes9:9 You love your wife. So enjoy life with her. Do it all the days of this meaningless life God has given you on earth. That's what he made you for. That's what you get for all of your hard work on earth. 
Ecclesiastes9:10 No matter what you do, work at it with all your might. Remember, you are going to your grave. And there isn't any work or planning or knowledge or wisdom there." 
Ecclesiastes9:11 Here's something else I've seen on this earth. Races aren't always won by those who run fast. Battles aren't always won by those who are strong. Wise people don't always have plenty of food. Clever people aren't always wealthy. Those who have learned a lot aren't always favored. God controls the timing of every event. He also controls how things turn out. 
Ecclesiastes9:12 A man doesn't know when trouble will come to him. Fish are caught in nets. Birds are taken in traps. And people are trapped by hard times that come when they don't expect them. 
Ecclesiastes9:13 Here's something else I saw on this earth. I saw an example of wisdom that touched me deeply. 
Ecclesiastes9:14 There was once a small city. Only a few people lived there. A powerful king attacked it. He brought in war machines all around it. 
Ecclesiastes9:15 A certain man lived in that city. He was poor but wise. He used his wisdom to save the city. But no one remembered that poor man. 
Ecclesiastes9:16 So I said, ""It's better to be wise than to be powerful."" But people looked down on the poor man's wisdom. No one paid any attention to what he said." 
Ecclesiastes9:17 People should listen to the quiet words of those who are wise. That's better than paying attention to the shouts of a ruler of foolish people. 
Ecclesiastes9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war. But one sinner destroys a lot of good. 
Ecclesiastes10:1 Dead flies give perfume a bad smell. And a little foolishness can make a lot of wisdom useless. 
Ecclesiastes10:2 The hearts of wise people lead them on the right path. But the hearts of foolish people take them down the wrong path. 
Ecclesiastes10:3 A foolish person doesn't have any sense at all. He shows everyone he is foolish. He does it even when he is walking along the road. 
Ecclesiastes10:4 Suppose a ruler gets very angry with you. If he does, don't quit your job in the palace. Stay calm. That will overcome the effects of your big mistakes." 
Ecclesiastes10:5 Here's something evil I've seen on this earth. And it's the kind of mistake that rulers make. 
Ecclesiastes10:6 Foolish people are given many important jobs. Rich people are given unimportant ones. 
Ecclesiastes10:7 I've seen slaves on horseback. I've also seen princes who were forced to walk as if they were slaves. 
Ecclesiastes10:8 Anyone who digs a pit might fall into it. Anyone who breaks through a wall might be bitten by a snake. 
Ecclesiastes10:9 Anyone who removes stones from rock pits might get hurt. Anyone who cuts logs might get wounded. 
Ecclesiastes10:10 Suppose the blade of an ax is dull. And its edge hasn't been sharpened. Then more effort is needed to use it. But skill will bring success. 
Ecclesiastes10:11 Suppose a snake bites before it is charmed. Then there isn't any benefit in being a snake charmer. 
Ecclesiastes10:12 A man who is wise says gracious things. But a foolish person is destroyed by what his own lips speak. 
Ecclesiastes10:13 At first what he says is foolish. In the end his words are very evil. 
Ecclesiastes10:14 He talks too much. No one knows what lies ahead for him. Who can tell him what will happen after he is gone? 
Ecclesiastes10:15 The work a foolish person does makes him tired. He doesn't even know the way to town. 
Ecclesiastes10:16 How terrible it is for a land whose king used to be a servant! How terrible if its princes get drunk in the morning! 
Ecclesiastes10:17 How blessed is the land whose king was born into the royal family! How blessed if its princes eat and drink at the proper time! How blessed if they eat and drink to become strong and not to get drunk! 
Ecclesiastes10:18 When a man won't work, the roof falls down. When his hands aren't busy, the house leaks." 
Ecclesiastes10:19 People laugh at a dinner party. And wine makes life happy. People think money can buy everything. 
Ecclesiastes10:20 Don't call down curses on the king. Don't even think about doing it. Don't call down curses on rich people. Don't even do it in your bedroom. A bird might fly away and carry your words. It might report what you said. 
Ecclesiastes11:1 Put your money into trade across the ocean. After a while you will earn something from it. 
Ecclesiastes11:2 Give shares of what you earn to a lot of people. After all, you don't know what great trouble might come on the land." 
Ecclesiastes11:3 Clouds that are full of water pour rain down on the earth. A tree might fall to the south or the north. It will stay in the place where it falls. 
Ecclesiastes11:4 Anyone who keeps on watching the wind won't plant seeds. Anyone who keeps looking at the clouds won't gather crops. 
Ecclesiastes11:5 You don't know the path the wind takes. You don't know how a baby is made inside its mother. So you can't understand how God works either. He made everything. 
Ecclesiastes11:6 In the morning plant your seeds. In the evening keep your hands busy. You don't know what will succeed. It may be one or the other. Or both might do equally well. 
Ecclesiastes11:7 Light is sweet. People enjoy being out in the sun. 
Ecclesiastes11:8 No matter how many years a man might live, let him enjoy all of them. But let him remember the dark days. There will be many of them. Nothing that's going to happen will have any meaning." 
Ecclesiastes11:9 Young man, be happy while you are still young. Let your heart be joyful while you are still strong. Do what your heart tells you to do. Go after what your eyes look at. But I want you to know that God will judge you for everything you do." 
Ecclesiastes11:10 So drive worry out of your heart. Get rid of all of your troubles. Being young and strong doesn't have any meaning. 
Ecclesiastes12:1 Remember the One who created you. Remember him while you are still young. Think about him before your times of trouble come. The years will come when you will say, ""I don't find any pleasure in them.""" 
Ecclesiastes12:2 That's when the sunlight will become dark. The moon and the stars will also grow dark. And the clouds will return after it rains. 
Ecclesiastes12:3 Remember your Creator before those who guard the house tremble with old age. That's when strong men will be bent over. The women who grind grain will stop because there are so few of them left. Those who look through the windows won't be able to see very well. 
Ecclesiastes12:4 Remember your Creator before the front doors are closed. That's when the sound of grinding will fade away. Old men will rise up when they hear birds singing. But they will barely hear any of their songs. 
Ecclesiastes12:5 Remember your Creator before you become afraid of places that are too high. You will also be terrified because of danger in the streets. Remember your Creator before the almond trees have buds on them. That's when grasshoppers will drag themselves along. Old men will not want to make love anymore. Man will go to his dark home in the grave. And those who sob over the dead will walk around in the streets. 
Ecclesiastes12:6 Remember your Creator before the silver cord is cut. That's when the golden bowl will be broken. The wheel will be broken at the well. The pitcher will be smashed at the spring. 
Ecclesiastes12:7 Remember your Creator before you return to the dust you came from. That's when your spirit will go back to God who gave it. 
Ecclesiastes12:8 Meaningless! Everything is meaningless! says the Teacher. Nothing has any meaning. 
Ecclesiastes12:9 The Teacher was wise. He gave knowledge to people. He put many proverbs to the test. He thought about them carefully. Then he wrote them down in order. 
Ecclesiastes12:10 He did his best to find just the right words. And what he wrote was honest and true. 
Ecclesiastes12:11 The sayings of those who are wise move people to take action. Their collected sayings really nail things down. They are given to us by one Shepherd. 
Ecclesiastes12:12 My son, be careful not to pay attention to anything that is added to them. Books will never stop being written. Too much studying makes people tired." 
Ecclesiastes12:13 Everything has now been heard. And here's the final thing I want to say. Have respect for God and obey his commandments. That's what everyone should do. 
Ecclesiastes12:14 God will judge everything people do. That includes everything they try to hide. He'll judge everything, whether it's good or evil." 
SongOfSongs1:1 This is the greatest song Solomon ever wrote. A Shulammite woman says to King Solomon," 
SongOfSongs1:2 I long for your lips to kiss me! Your love makes me happier than wine does. 
SongOfSongs1:3 The lotion you have on pleases me. Your name is like perfume that is poured out. No wonder the young women love you! 
SongOfSongs1:4 Take me away with you. Let us hurry! King Solomon, bring me into your palace."" The other women say, ""King Solomon, you fill us with joy. You make us happy. We praise your love more than we praise wine."" The woman says to the king, ""It is right for them to love you!" 
SongOfSongs1:5 Women of Jerusalem, my skin is dark but lovely. It is dark like the tents in Kedar. It's like the curtains of Solomon's tent." 
SongOfSongs1:6 Don't stare at me because I'm dark. The sun has made my skin look like this. My brothers burned with anger against me. They made me take care of the vineyards. I haven't even taken care of my own vineyard. 
SongOfSongs1:7 King Solomon, I love you. So tell me where you take care of your flock. Tell me where you rest your sheep at noon. Why should I have to act like a prostitute near the flocks of your friends?"" The other women say," 
SongOfSongs1:8 You are the most beautiful woman of all. Don't you know where to find the king? Follow the tracks the sheep make. Take care of your young goats near the tents of the shepherds. King Solomon says to the Shulammite woman," 
SongOfSongs1:9 You are my love. You are like a mare that pulls one of Pharaoh's chariots. 
SongOfSongs1:10 Your earrings make your cheeks even more beautiful. Your strings of jewels make your neck even more lovely. The other women say to her," 
SongOfSongs1:11 We will make gold earrings for you. We'll decorate them with silver. The woman says," 
SongOfSongs1:12 The king was at his table. My perfume gave off a sweet smell. 
SongOfSongs1:13 The one who loves me is like a small bag of myrrh resting between my breasts. 
SongOfSongs1:14 He is like henna flowers from the vineyards of En Gedi. The king says," 
SongOfSongs1:15 You are so beautiful, my love! So beautiful! Your eyes are like doves."" The woman says," 
SongOfSongs1:16 You are so handsome, my love! So charming! The green field is our bed." 
SongOfSongs1:17 Cedar trees above us are the beams of our house. Fir trees overhead are its rafters. 
SongOfSongs2:1 I am like a rose on the coast of Sharon. I'm like a lily in the valleys. The king says," 
SongOfSongs2:2 My love, among the young women you are like a lily among thorns."" The woman says," 
SongOfSongs2:3 My love, among the young men you are like an apple tree among the trees of the forest. I'm happy to sit in your shade. Your fruit tastes so sweet to me." 
SongOfSongs2:4 You have taken me to the dinner hall. Your banner of love is lifted high above me. 
SongOfSongs2:5 Give me some raisins to make me strong. Give me some apples to make me feel like new again. Our love has made me weak. 
SongOfSongs2:6 Your left arm is under my head. Your right arm is around me. 
SongOfSongs2:7 Women of Jerusalem, take an oath and make me a promise. Let the antelopes and the does serve as witnesses. Don't stir up love. Don't wake it up until it's ready." 
SongOfSongs2:8 Listen! I hear my love! Look! Here he comes! He's leaping across the mountains. He's coming over the hills. 
SongOfSongs2:9 The one who loves me is like an antelope or a young deer. Look! There he stands behind our wall. He's gazing through the window. He's peering through the screen. 
SongOfSongs2:10 He said to me, 'Rise up, my love. Come with me, my beautiful one." 
SongOfSongs2:11 Look! The winter is past. The rains are over and gone. 
SongOfSongs2:12 Flowers are appearing on the earth. The season for singing has come. The cooing of doves is heard in our land. 
SongOfSongs2:13 The fig trees are producing their early fruit. The flowers on the vines are giving off their sweet smell. Rise up and come, my love. Come with me, my beautiful one.' "" The king says," 
SongOfSongs2:14 You are like a dove in an opening in the rocks. You are like a dove in a hiding place on a mountainside. Show me your face. Let me hear your voice. Your voice is so sweet. Your face is so lovely. 
SongOfSongs2:15 Catch the foxes for us. Catch the little foxes. They destroy our vineyards. The vineyards are in bloom. The woman says," 
SongOfSongs2:16 My love belongs to me, and I belong to him. Like an antelope, he eats among the lilies." 
SongOfSongs2:17 Until the day begins and the shadows fade away, turn to me, my love. Be like an antelope or like a young deer on the rocky hills." 
SongOfSongs3:1 All night long on my bed I searched for the one my heart loves. I looked for him but didn't find him. 
SongOfSongs3:2 I will get up. I'll go around in the city. I'll look through all of its streets. I'll search for the one my heart loves. So I looked for him but didn't find him. 
SongOfSongs3:3 Those on guard duty found me as they were walking around in the city. 'Have you seen the one my heart loves?' I asked. 
SongOfSongs3:4 As soon as I had passed by them I found the one my heart loves. I threw my arms around him. I didn't let him go until I had brought him to my mother's house. I took him to my mother's room. 
SongOfSongs3:5 Women of Jerusalem, take an oath and make me a promise. Let the antelopes and the does serve as witnesses. Don't stir up love. Don't wake it up until it's ready."" The other women say," 
SongOfSongs3:6 Who is this man coming up from the desert like a column of smoke? He smells like myrrh and incense made from all of the spices of the trader. 
SongOfSongs3:7 Look! There's Solomon's movable throne. Sixty soldiers accompany it. They have been chosen from the best warriors in Israel. 
SongOfSongs3:8 All of them are wearing swords. They have fought many battles. Each one has his sword at his side. Each is prepared for the terrors of the night. 
SongOfSongs3:9 King Solomon made the movable throne for himself. He made it out of wood from Lebanon. 
SongOfSongs3:10 He formed its posts out of silver. He made its base out of gold. Its seat was covered with purple cloth. It was decorated inside with loving care by the women of Jerusalem. 
SongOfSongs3:11 Women of Zion, come out. Look at King Solomon wearing his crown. His mother placed it on him. She did it on his wedding day. His heart was full of joy.""" 
SongOfSongs4:1 The king says to the Shulammite woman, ""You are so beautiful, my love! So beautiful! Your eyes behind your veil are like doves. Your hair flows like a flock of black goats coming down from Mount Gilead." 
SongOfSongs4:2 Your teeth are as clean as a flock of sheep. Their wool has just been clipped. They have just come up from being washed. Each of your teeth has its twin. Not one of them is alone. 
SongOfSongs4:3 Your lips are like a bright red ribbon. Your mouth is so lovely. Your cheeks behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate. 
SongOfSongs4:4 Your neck is strong and beautiful like the tower of David. That tower is built with beautiful stones. A thousand shields are hanging on it. All of them belong to mighty soldiers. 
SongOfSongs4:5 Your two breasts are lovely. They are like two young antelopes that eat among the lilies. 
SongOfSongs4:6 I will go to the mountain of myrrh. I'll go to the hill of incense. I'll stay there until the day begins and the shadows fade away. 
SongOfSongs4:7 Every part of you is so beautiful, my love. There is no flaw in you." 
SongOfSongs4:8 Come with me from Lebanon, my bride. Come with me from Lebanon. Come down from the top of Mount Amana. Come down from the top of Senir. Come to me from the peak of Mount Hermon. Leave the dens where the lions live. Leave the places in the mountains where the leopards stay." 
SongOfSongs4:9 My bride, you have stolen my heart with one glance of your eyes. My sister, you have stolen my heart with one jewel in your necklace." 
SongOfSongs4:10 My bride, your love is so delightful. My sister, your love makes me happier than wine does. Your perfume smells better than any spice." 
SongOfSongs4:11 Your lips are as sweet as a honeycomb, my bride. Milk and honey are under your tongue. Your clothes smell like the cedar trees in Lebanon." 
SongOfSongs4:12 My bride, you are like a garden that is locked up. My sister, you are like a spring of water that has a fence around it. You are like a fountain that is sealed up." 
SongOfSongs4:13 You are like trees whose branches are loaded with pomegranates, fine fruits, henna and nard," 
SongOfSongs4:14 with saffron, cane and cinnamon. You are like every kind of incense tree. You have myrrh, aloes and all of the finest spices." 
SongOfSongs4:15 You are like a fountain in a garden. You are like a well of flowing water streaming down from Lebanon. The woman says," 
SongOfSongs4:16 Wake up, north wind! Come, south wind! Blow on my garden. Then its sweet smell will spread everywhere. Let my love come into his garden. Let him taste its fine fruits.""" 
SongOfSongs5:1 The king says, ""My bride, I have come into my garden. My sister, I've gathered my myrrh and my spice. I've eaten my honeycomb and my honey. I've drunk my wine and my milk."" The other women say to the Shulammite woman and to Solomon, ""Friends, eat and drink. Lovers, drink all you want."" The woman says," 
SongOfSongs5:2 I slept, but my heart was awake. Listen! The one who loves me is knocking. He says, 'My sister, I love you. Open up so I can come in. You are my dove. You are perfect in every way. My head is soaked with dew. The night air has made my hair wet.'" 
SongOfSongs5:3 But I've taken my robe off. Must I put it on again? I've washed my feet. Must I get them dirty again? 
SongOfSongs5:4 My love put his hand through the opening. My heart began to pound for him. 
SongOfSongs5:5 I got up to open the door for my love. My hands dripped with myrrh. It flowed from my fingers onto the handles of the lock. 
SongOfSongs5:6 I opened the door for my love. But he had left. He was gone. My heart sank because he had left. I looked for him but didn't find him. I called out to him, but he didn't answer." 
SongOfSongs5:7 Those on guard duty found me as they were walking around in the city. They beat me. They hurt me. Those on guard duty at the walls took my coat away from me. 
SongOfSongs5:8 Women of Jerusalem, take an oath and make me a promise. If you find the one who loves me, tell him our love has made me weak."" The other women say," 
SongOfSongs5:9 You are the most beautiful woman of all. How is the one you love better than others? How is he better than anyone else? Why do you ask us to make you a promise? The woman says," 
SongOfSongs5:10 The one who loves me is tanned and handsome. He's the finest man among 10,000." 
SongOfSongs5:11 His head is like the purest gold. His hair is wavy and as black as a raven. 
SongOfSongs5:12 His eyes are like doves by streams of water. They look as if they've been washed in milk. They are set like jewels in his head. 
SongOfSongs5:13 His cheeks are like beds of spice that give off perfume. His lips are like lilies that drip with myrrh. 
SongOfSongs5:14 His arms are like gold that are set with chrysolite. His body is like polished ivory that is decorated with sapphires. 
SongOfSongs5:15 His legs are like pillars of marble that are set on bases of pure gold. He looks like the finest cedar tree in the mountains of Lebanon. 
SongOfSongs5:16 His mouth is very sweet. Everything about him is delightful. That's what the one who loves me is like. That's what my friend is like, women of Jerusalem.""" 
SongOfSongs6:1 The other women say, ""You are the most beautiful woman of all. Where has the one who loves you gone? Which way did he turn? We'll help you look for him."" The woman says," 
SongOfSongs6:2 My love has gone down to his garden. He's gone to the beds of spices. He's eating in the gardens. He's gathering lilies. 
SongOfSongs6:3 I belong to my love, and he belongs to me. He's eating among the lilies."" The king says," 
SongOfSongs6:4 My love, you are as beautiful as the city of Tirzah. You are as lovely as Jerusalem. You are as majestic as troops carrying their banners." 
SongOfSongs6:5 Turn your eyes away from me. They overpower me. Your hair flows like a flock of black goats coming down from Mount Gilead. 
SongOfSongs6:6 Your teeth are as clean as a flock of sheep coming up from being washed. Each of your teeth has its twin. Not one of them is alone. 
SongOfSongs6:7 Your cheeks behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate. 
SongOfSongs6:8 There might be 60 queens and 80 concubines. There might be more virgins than anyone can count. 
SongOfSongs6:9 But you are my perfect dove. There isn't anyone like you. You are your mother's favorite daughter. The young women see you and call you blessed. The queens and concubines praise you. The other women say," 
SongOfSongs6:10 Who is this woman? She is like the sunrise in all of its glory. She is as beautiful as the moon. She is as bright as the sun. She is as majestic as troops carrying their banners. The king says," 
SongOfSongs6:11 I went down to a grove of nut trees. I wanted to look at the new plants growing in the valley. I wanted to find out whether the vines had budded. I wanted to see if the pomegranate trees had bloomed. 
SongOfSongs6:12 Before I realized it, I was among the royal chariots of my people."" The other women say," 
SongOfSongs6:13 Come back to us. Come back, Shulammite woman. Come back to us. Come back. Then we can look at you."" The woman says, ""Why do you want to look at me as you would watch a dancer at Mahanaim?""" 
SongOfSongs7:1 The king says to the Shulammite woman, ""You are like a prince's daughter. Your feet in sandals are so beautiful. Your graceful legs are like jewels. The hands of a skilled worker must have shaped them." 
SongOfSongs7:2 Your navel is like a round bowl that always has mixed wine in it. Your waist is like a mound of wheat that is surrounded by lilies. 
SongOfSongs7:3 Your two breasts are lovely. They are like two young antelopes. 
SongOfSongs7:4 Your neck is smooth and beautiful like an ivory tower. Your eyes are like the pools of Heshbon by the gate of Bath Rabbim. Your nose is like the towering mountains of Lebanon that face the city of Damascus. 
SongOfSongs7:5 Your head is like a crown on you. It is as beautiful as Mount Carmel. Your hair is as smooth as purple silk. I am captured by your flowing curls. 
SongOfSongs7:6 You are so beautiful! You please me so much! You are so delightful, my love!" 
SongOfSongs7:7 You are as graceful as a palm tree. Your breasts are as sweet as the freshest fruit. 
SongOfSongs7:8 I said, 'I will climb the palm tree. I'll take hold of its fruit.' May your breasts be as sweet as the fruit on the vine. May your breath smell like the tastiest apples." 
SongOfSongs7:9 May your lips be like the finest wine. The woman says, ""May my wine go straight to you, my love. May it flow gently over our lips as we sleep." 
SongOfSongs7:10 I belong to you, my love. And you long for me." 
SongOfSongs7:11 Come, my love. Let's go to the country. Let's spend the night in the villages." 
SongOfSongs7:12 Let's go out to the vineyards early. Let's go and see if the vines have budded. Let's find out whether their flowers have opened. Let's see if the pomegranate trees are blooming. I'll make love to you in the vineyards. 
SongOfSongs7:13 The mandrake flowers give off their strong smell. All of the best things are waiting for us, new and old alike. I've stored them up for you, my love." 
SongOfSongs8:1 I wish you were like a brother to me. I wish my mother's breasts had nursed you. Then if I found you outside, I could kiss you. No one would look down on me." 
SongOfSongs8:2 I'd bring you to my mother's house. She taught me everything I know. I'd give you spiced wine to drink. It's the juice of my pomegranates. 
SongOfSongs8:3 Your left arm is under my head. Your right arm is around me. 
SongOfSongs8:4 Women of Jerusalem, take an oath and make me a promise. Don't stir up love. Don't wake it up until it's ready."" The other women say," 
SongOfSongs8:5 Who is this woman coming up from the desert? She's leaning on the one who loves her. The woman says to the king, ""Under the apple tree I woke you up. That's where your mother became pregnant with you. She went into labor, and you were born there." 
SongOfSongs8:6 Hold me close to your heart like the seal around your neck. Keep me close to yourself like the ring on your finger. My love for you is so strong it won't let you go. Love is as powerful as death. Love's jealousy is as strong as the grave. Love is like a blazing fire. It burns like a mighty flame. 
SongOfSongs8:7 No amount of water can put it out. Rivers can't drown it. Suppose someone offers all of his wealth to buy love. That won't even come close to being enough. The woman's brothers say," 
SongOfSongs8:8 We have a little sister. Her breasts are still small. What should we do for our sister when she gets engaged? 
SongOfSongs8:9 If she were a wall, we'd build silver towers on her. If she were a door, we'd cover her with cedar boards."" The woman says to the king," 
SongOfSongs8:10 I am a wall. My breasts are like well-built towers. So in your eyes I've become like someone who makes you happy. 
SongOfSongs8:11 Solomon, you had a vineyard in Baal Hamon. You rented your vineyard to others. They had to pay 25 pounds of silver for its fruit." 
SongOfSongs8:12 But I can give my own vineyard to anyone I want to. So I give my 25 pounds of silver to you, Solomon. Give 5 pounds to those who take care of its fruit."" The king says," 
SongOfSongs8:13 My love, you live in the gardens. My friends listen for your voice. But let me hear it now."" The woman says," 
SongOfSongs8:14 Come away with me, my love. Be like an antelope or like a young deer on mountains that are full of spices.""" 
Isaiah1:1 Here is the vision about Judah and Jerusalem that Isaiah had. It came to him when Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah were ruling. They were kings of Judah. Isaiah was the son of Amoz." 
Isaiah1:2 Listen to me, heavens! Pay attention to me, earth! The Lord has said, ""I raised children. I brought them up. But they have refused to obey me." 
Isaiah1:3 The ox knows its master. The donkey knows where its owner feeds it. But Israel does not know me. My people do not understand me. 
Isaiah1:4 They are a sinful nation. They are loaded down with guilt. They are people who do nothing but evil. They are children who are always sinning. They have deserted the Lord. They have turned against the Holy One of Israel. They have turned their backs on him. 
Isaiah1:5 Israel, why do you want to be beaten all the time? Why do you always refuse to obey the Lord? Your head is covered with wounds. Your whole heart is weak." 
Isaiah1:6 There isn't a healthy spot on your body from the bottom of your feet to the top of your head. There are only wounds, cuts and open sores. They haven't been cleaned up or bandaged or treated with olive oil." 
Isaiah1:7 Your country has been deserted. Your cities have been burned down. The food from your fields is being eaten up by outsiders. They are doing it right in front of you. Your land has been completely destroyed. It looks as if strangers have taken it over. 
Isaiah1:8 The city of Zion is left like a hut where someone stands guard in a vineyard. It is left like an empty cabin in a melon field. It's like a city that is being attacked. 
Isaiah1:9 The Lord who rules over all has let some people live through that time of trouble. If he hadn't, we would have become like Sodom. We would have been like Gomorrah." 
Isaiah1:10 Rulers of Sodom, hear the Lord's message. People of Gomorrah, listen to the law of our God." 
Isaiah1:11 Do you think I need any more of your sacrifices? asks the Lord. I have more than enough of your burnt offerings. I have more than enough of rams and the fat of your fattest animals. I do not find any pleasure in the blood of your bulls, lambs and goats." 
Isaiah1:12 Who asked you to bring all of those animals when you come to worship me? Who asked you and your animals to walk all over my courtyards? 
Isaiah1:13 Stop bringing offerings that do not mean anything to me! I hate your incense. I can't stand your evil gatherings. I can't stand the way you celebrate your New Moon Feasts, Sabbath days and special services." 
Isaiah1:14 I hate your New Moon Feasts and your other appointed feasts. They have become a heavy load to me. I am tired of carrying it. 
Isaiah1:15 You might spread out your hands toward me when you pray. But I will not look at you. You might even offer many prayers. But I will not listen to them. Your hands are covered with the blood of the people you have murdered. 
Isaiah1:16 So wash your hands. Make yourselves clean. Get your evil actions out of my sight! Stop doing what is wrong! 
Isaiah1:17 Learn to do what is right! Treat people fairly. Give hope to those who are beaten down. Cheer them up. Stand up in court for children whose fathers have died. And do the same thing for widows. 
Isaiah1:18 Come. Let us talk some more about this matter,"" says the Lord. ""Even though your sins are bright red, they will be as white as snow. Even though they are deep red, they will be white like wool." 
Isaiah1:19 But you have to be willing to change and obey me. If you are, you will eat the best food that grows on the land." 
Isaiah1:20 You must follow me. You must obey me. If you do not, you will be killed with swords."" The Lord has spoken." 
Isaiah1:21 See how the faithful city of Jerusalem has become like a prostitute! Once it was full of people who treated others fairly. Those who did what was right used to live in it. But now murderers live there! 
Isaiah1:22 Jerusalem, your silver isn't pure anymore. Your best wine has been made weak with water." 
Isaiah1:23 Your rulers refuse to obey the Lord. They are companions of robbers. All of them love to accept money from those who want special favors. They are always looking for gifts from other people. They don't stand up in court for children whose fathers have died. They don't do it for widows either. 
Isaiah1:24 The Lord is the Mighty One of Israel. The Lord who rules over all announces, ""Israel, you have become my enemies. I will pay you back for what you have done. Then you will not trouble me anymore." 
Isaiah1:25 I will turn my powerful hand against you. I will make you completely clean. I will remove everything that is not pure. 
Isaiah1:26 I will give judges to you like the ones you had long ago. I will give you advisers like those you had at the beginning. Then you will be called The City That Does What Is Right. You will also be called The Faithful City. 
Isaiah1:27 Zion will be saved when others are treated fairly. Those who are sorry for their sins will be saved when what is right is done. 
Isaiah1:28 But sinners and those who refuse to obey the Lord will be destroyed. And those who desert the Lord will die. 
Isaiah1:29 Israel, you take delight in worshiping among the sacred oak trees. You will be full of shame for doing that. You have chosen to worship in the sacred gardens. You will be dishonored for doing that." 
Isaiah1:30 You will be like an oak tree whose leaves are dying. You will be like a garden that doesn't have any water. 
Isaiah1:31 Your strongest men will become like dry pieces of wood. Their worship of other gods will be the spark that lights the fire. Everything will be burned up. No one will be there to put the fire out. 
Isaiah2:1 Here is a vision that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, had about Judah and Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:2 In the last days the mountain where the Lord's temple is located will be famous. It will be the most important mountain of all. It will stand out above the hills. All of the nations will go to it. 
Isaiah2:3 People from many nations will go there. They will say, ""Come. Let us go up to the Lord's mountain. Let's go to the house of Jacob's God. He will teach us how we should live. Then we will live the way he wants us to."" The law of the Lord will be taught at Zion. His message will go out from Jerusalem." 
Isaiah2:4 He will judge between the nations. He'll settle problems among many of them. They will hammer their swords into plows. They'll hammer their spears into pruning tools. Nations will not go to war against one another. They won't even train to fight anymore. 
Isaiah2:5 People of Jacob, come. Let us live the way the Lord has taught us to." 
Isaiah2:6 Lord, you have deserted the people of Jacob. They are your people. The land is full of false beliefs from the east. The people practice evil magic, just as the Philistines do. They make ungodly people their friends." 
Isaiah2:7 Their land is full of silver and gold. There is no end to their treasures. Their land is full of horses. There is no end to their chariots. 
Isaiah2:8 Their land is full of statues of gods. They bow down to what their own hands have made. They bow down to what their fingers have shaped. 
Isaiah2:9 So man will be brought low. People will be put to shame. Do not forgive them. 
Isaiah2:10 Go and hide in caves in the rocks, you people! Hide in holes in the ground. Hide from the terror of the Lord! Hide when he comes in glory and majesty!" 
Isaiah2:11 A man who brags will be brought low. Men who are proud will be put to shame. The Lord alone will be honored at that time. 
Isaiah2:12 The Lord who rules over all has set apart a day when he will judge. He has set it apart for all those who are proud and think they are important. He has set it apart for all those who brag about themselves. All of them will be brought low. 
Isaiah2:13 The Lord has set that day apart for all of the cedar trees in Lebanon. They are very tall. He has set it apart for all of the oak trees in Bashan. 
Isaiah2:14 He has set it apart for all of the towering mountains. He has set it apart for all of the high hills. 
Isaiah2:15 He has set it apart for every high tower and every strong wall. 
Isaiah2:16 He has set it apart for every trading ship and every beautiful boat. 
Isaiah2:17 A man who brags will be brought low. Men who are proud will be put to shame. The Lord alone will be honored at that time. 
Isaiah2:18 And the statues of gods will totally disappear. 
Isaiah2:19 People will run and hide in caves in the rocks. They will go into holes in the ground. They will run away from the terror of the Lord. They will run when he comes in glory and majesty. When he comes, he will shake the earth." 
Isaiah2:20 Men had made some statues of gods out of silver. They had made others out of gold. Then they worshiped them. But when the Lord comes, they will throw the statues away to the rodents and bats." 
Isaiah2:21 They will run and hide in caves in the rocks. They will go into holes in the cliffs. They will run away from the terror of the Lord. They will run when he comes in glory and majesty. When he comes, he will shake the earth." 
Isaiah2:22 Stop trusting man. He can't help you. He only lives for a little while. What good is he? 
Isaiah3:1 Here is what the Lord who rules over all is about to do. The Lord will take away from Jerusalem and Judah supplies and help alike. He will take away all of the supplies of food and water. 
Isaiah3:2 He'll take away heroes and soldiers. He'll take away judges and prophets. He'll take away fortune tellers and elders. 
Isaiah3:3 He'll take away captains of companies of 50 men. He'll take away government leaders. He'll take away advisers, skilled workers and those who are clever at doing evil magic." 
Isaiah3:4 The Lord will make young boys rule over all of them. Mere children will govern them. 
Isaiah3:5 People will crush one another. They will fight against each other. They will fight against their neighbors. Young people will attack old people. Ordinary people will attack those who are more important. 
Isaiah3:6 A man will grab hold of one of his brothers at his father's home. He will say, ""You have a coat. So you be our leader. Take charge of all of these broken-down buildings!""" 
Isaiah3:7 But at that time the brother will cry out, ""I can't help you. I don't have any food or clothing in my house. Don't make me the leader of these people.""" 
Isaiah3:8 Jerusalem is about to fall. And so is Judah. They say and do things against the Lord. They dare to disobey him to his very face. 
Isaiah3:9 The look on their faces is a witness against them. They show off their sin, just as the people of Sodom did. They don't even try to hide it. How terrible it will be for them! They have brought trouble on themselves." 
Isaiah3:10 Tell those who do what is right that things will go well with them. They will enjoy the results of the good things they've done. 
Isaiah3:11 But how terrible it will be for those who do what is evil! Trouble is about to fall on them. They will be paid back for the evil things they've done. 
Isaiah3:12 Those who are young crush my people. Women rule over them. My people, your leaders have taken you down the wrong path. They have turned you away from the right path." 
Isaiah3:13 The Lord takes his place in court. He stands up to judge the people. 
Isaiah3:14 He judges the elders and leaders of his people. He says to them, ""My people are like a vineyard. You have destroyed them. The things you have taken from poor people are in your houses." 
Isaiah3:15 What do you mean by crushing my people? Why are you grinding the faces of the poor into the dirt? announces the Lord. He is the Lord who rules over all. 
Isaiah3:16 The Lord continues, ""The women in Zion are very proud. They walk along with their noses in the air. They tease men with their eyes. They walk with quick, short steps. Little chains jingle on their ankles." 
Isaiah3:17 So I will put sores on the heads of Zion's women. And I will remove the hair from their heads. 
Isaiah3:18 At that time the Lord will take away the beautiful things they wear. He will take away their decorations, headbands and moon-shaped necklaces." 
Isaiah3:19 He'll take away their earrings, bracelets and veils." 
Isaiah3:20 He'll remove their headdresses, ankle chains and belts. He'll take away their perfume bottles and charms." 
Isaiah3:21 He'll remove the rings they wear on their fingers and in their noses. 
Isaiah3:22 He'll take away their fine robes and their capes and coats. He'll take away their purses 
Isaiah3:23 and mirrors. And he'll take away their linen clothes, turbans and shawls." 
Isaiah3:24 Instead of smelling sweet, the women will smell bad. Instead of wearing belts, they will wear ropes. Instead of having beautiful hair, they won't have any hair at all. Instead of wearing fine clothes, they'll wear black clothes to show how sad they are. Instead of being beautiful, they'll have the brands of slaves on their bodies." 
Isaiah3:25 Jerusalem, your men will be killed with swords. Your soldiers will die in battle." 
Isaiah3:26 The city of Zion will be very sad. Like a widow, she will lose everything. She will sit on the ground and sob." 
Isaiah4:1 At that time seven women will grab hold of one man. They'll say to him, ""We will eat our own food. We'll provide our own clothes. Just let us become your wives. Take away our shame!""" 
Isaiah4:2 At that time Israel's king will be beautiful and glorious. He will be called The Branch of the Lord. The fruit of the land will be the pride and glory of those who are still left alive in Israel. 
Isaiah4:3 Those who are left in Zion will be called holy. They will be recorded among those who are alive in Jerusalem. 
Isaiah4:4 The Lord will wash away the sin of the women in Zion. He will clean up the blood that was spilled there. He will judge those who spilled that blood. His burning anger will blaze out at them. 
Isaiah4:5 Then the Lord will create over Jerusalem a cloud of smoke by day. He will also create a glow of flaming fire at night. They will appear over all of Mount Zion and those who gather together there. The Lord's glory will be like a tent over them. 
Isaiah4:6 It will cover them and give them shade from the hot sun all day long. It will be a safe place where they can hide from storms and rain. 
Isaiah5:1 I will sing a song for the Lord. He is the one I love. It's a song about his vineyard Israel. The one I love had a vineyard. It was on a hillside that had rich soil. 
Isaiah5:2 He dug up the soil and removed its stones. He planted the very best vines in it. He built a lookout tower there. He also cut out a winepress for it. Then he kept looking for a crop of good grapes. But the vineyard produced only bad fruit. 
Isaiah5:3 So the Lord said, ""People of Jerusalem and Judah, you be the judge between me and my vineyard." 
Isaiah5:4 What more could I have done for my vineyard? I did everything I could. I kept looking for a crop of good grapes. So why did it produce only bad ones? 
Isaiah5:5 Now I will tell you what I am going to do to my vineyard. I will take away its fence. And it will be destroyed. I will break down its wall. And people will walk all over it. 
Isaiah5:6 I will turn my vineyard into a dry and empty desert. It will not be pruned or taken care of. Thorns and bushes will grow there. I will command the clouds not to rain on it. 
Isaiah5:7 The vineyard of the Lord who rules over all is the nation of Israel. The people of Judah are the garden he takes delight in. He kept looking for them to do what is fair. But all he saw was blood being spilled. He kept looking for them to do what is right. But all he heard were cries of suffering. 
Isaiah5:8 How terrible it will be for you who get too many houses! How terrible for you who get too many fields! Finally there won't be any space left in the land. Then you will live all alone. 
Isaiah5:9 I heard the Lord who rules over all announce a message. He said, ""You can be sure that the great houses will become empty. The fine homes will be left with no one living in them." 
Isaiah5:10 A ten-acre vineyard will produce only six gallons of wine. Six bushels of seeds will produce less than a bushel of grain. 
Isaiah5:11 How terrible it will be for those who get up early in the morning to start drinking! How terrible for those who stay up late at night until they are drunk with wine! 
Isaiah5:12 They have harps and lyres at their big dinners. They have tambourines, flutes and wine. But they don't have any concern for the mighty acts of the Lord. They don't have any respect for what his powerful hands have done." 
Isaiah5:13 So my people will be taken away as prisoners. That's because they don't understand what the Lord has done. Their government leaders will die of hunger. The rest of the people won't have any water to drink. 
Isaiah5:14 So the grave is hungry to receive them. Its mouth is open wide to swallow them up. Their nobles and the rest of the people will go down into it. They will go there together with all those who have wild parties. 
Isaiah5:15 So man will be brought low. People will be put to shame. Those who brag will be brought down. 
Isaiah5:16 But the Lord who rules over all will be honored because he judges fairly. The holy God will show that he is holy by doing what is right. 
Isaiah5:17 Then sheep will graze as if they were in their own grasslands. Lambs will eat grass among the destroyed buildings where rich people used to live. 
Isaiah5:18 How terrible it will be for those who continue to sin and lie about it! How terrible for those who keep on doing what is evil as if they were tied to it! 
Isaiah5:19 How terrible for those who say, ""Let God hurry up and do what he says he will. We want to see it happen. Let the Holy One of Israel carry out his plan soon. We want to know what it is.""" 
Isaiah5:20 How terrible it will be for those who say that what is evil is good! How terrible for those who say that what is good is evil! How terrible for those who say that darkness is light and light is darkness! How terrible for those who say that what is bitter is sweet and what is sweet is bitter! 
Isaiah5:21 How terrible it will be for those who think they are wise! How terrible for those who think they are really clever! 
Isaiah5:22 How terrible it will be for those who are heroes at drinking wine! How terrible for those who are heroes at mixing drinks! 
Isaiah5:23 How terrible for those who take money to set guilty people free! How terrible for those who don't treat good people fairly! 
Isaiah5:24 Flames of fire burn up straw. Dry grass sinks down into those flames. Evil people will be like plants whose roots rot away. They will be like flowers that are blown away like dust. That's because they have said no to the law of the Lord who rules over all. They have turned against the message of the Holy One of Israel. 
Isaiah5:25 So the Lord's anger burns against his people. He raises his hand against them. He strikes them down. The mountains shake. The bodies of dead people lie in the streets like trash. Even then, the Lord is still angry. His hand is still raised against them." 
Isaiah5:26 He lifts up a banner to gather the nations that are far away. He whistles for them to come from the farthest places on earth. Here they come. They are moving very quickly. 
Isaiah5:27 None of them grows tired. None of them falls down. None of them sleeps or even takes a nap. All of them are ready for battle. Every belt is pulled tight. Not a single sandal strap is broken. 
Isaiah5:28 The enemies' arrows are sharp. All of their bows are ready. The hoofs of their horses are as hard as rock. Their chariot wheels turn like a twister. 
Isaiah5:29 The sound of their army is like the roar of lions. It's like the roar of young lions. They growl as they capture what they were chasing. They carry it off. No one can take it away from them. 
Isaiah5:30 At that time the enemy army will roar over Israel. It will sound like the roaring of the ocean. If someone looks at the land of Israel, he will see darkness and trouble. The clouds will make even the light become dark." 
Isaiah6:1 In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord. He was seated on his throne. His long robe filled the temple. He was highly honored." 
Isaiah6:2 Above him were seraphs. Each of them had six wings. With two wings they covered their faces. With two wings they covered their feet. And with two wings they were flying. 
Isaiah6:3 They were calling out to one another. They were saying, ""Holy, holy, holy is the Lord who rules over all. The whole earth is full of his glory.""" 
Isaiah6:4 The sound of their voices caused the stone doorframe to shake. The temple was filled with smoke. 
Isaiah6:5 How terrible it is for me! I cried out. I'm about to be destroyed! My mouth speaks sinful words. And I live among people who speak sinful words. Now I have seen the King with my own eyes. He is the Lord who rules over all. 
Isaiah6:6 A seraph flew over to me. He was holding a hot coal. He had used tongs to take it from the altar. 
Isaiah6:7 He touched my mouth with the coal. He said, ""This has touched your lips. Your guilt has been taken away. Your sin has been paid for.""" 
Isaiah6:8 Then I heard the voice of the Lord. He said, ""Who will I send? Who will go for us?"" I said, ""Here I am. Send me!""" 
Isaiah6:9 So he said, ""Go and speak to these people. Tell them, "" 'You will hear but never understand. You will see but never know what you are seeing.'" 
Isaiah6:10 Make the hearts of these people stubborn. Plug up their ears. Close their eyes. Otherwise they might see with their eyes. They might hear with their ears. They might understand with their hearts. And they might turn to me and be healed. 
Isaiah6:11 Then I said, ""Lord, how long will it be like that?"" He answered, ""It will last until the cities of Israel are destroyed and no one is living in them. It will last until the houses are deserted. The fields will be completely destroyed." 
Isaiah6:12 It will last until I have sent everyone far away. The land will be totally deserted. 
Isaiah6:13 Even if a tenth of the people remain there, the land will be completely destroyed again. But when oak trees and terebinth trees are cut down, stumps are left. And my holy people will be like stumps that begin to grow again.""" 
Isaiah7:1 Ahaz was king of Judah. Rezin was king of Aram. And Pekah was king of Israel. Rezin and Pekah marched up to fight against Jerusalem. But they couldn't overpower it. Ahaz was the son of Jotham and the grandson of Uzziah. Pekah was the son of Remaliah. 
Isaiah7:2 The royal family of Ahaz was told, ""The army of Aram has joined forces with Ephraim's army."" So the hearts of Ahaz and his people trembled with fear. They shook just as trees in the forest shake when the wind blows through them." 
Isaiah7:3 The Lord said to me, ""Go out and see Ahaz. Take your son Shear-Jashub with you. Meet Ahaz at the end of the channel that brings water from the Upper Pool. It is on the road to the Washerman's Field." 
Isaiah7:4 Tell Ahaz, 'Be careful. Stay calm. Do not be afraid. Do not lose hope because of the burning anger of Rezin, Aram and the son of Remaliah. After all, they are nothing but a couple of pieces of smoking firewood." 
Isaiah7:5 Aram, Ephraim and Remaliah's son have planned to destroy you. They said," 
Isaiah7:6 Let's march into Judah and attack it. Let's tear everything down. Then we can share the land among ourselves. And we can make Tabeel's son king over it. 
Isaiah7:7  'But I am the Lord and King. I say, "" ' ""That will not happen. It will not take place." 
Isaiah7:8 The capital of Aram is Damascus. And the ruler of Damascus is only Rezin. Do not worry about the people of Ephraim. They will be too crushed to be considered a people. That will happen before 65 years are over. 
Isaiah7:9 The capital of Ephraim is Samaria. And the ruler of Samaria is only Remaliah's son. If you do not stand firm in your faith, you will not stand at all."" ' """ 
Isaiah7:10 The Lord spoke to Ahaz through me again. He said," 
Isaiah7:11 I am the Lord your God. Ask me to give you a miraculous sign. It can be anything in the deepest grave or in the highest heaven. 
Isaiah7:12 But Ahaz said, ""I won't ask. I won't put the Lord to the test.""" 
Isaiah7:13 Then I said, ""Listen, you members of the royal family of Ahaz! Isn't it enough for you to test the patience of men? Are you also going to test the patience of my God?" 
Isaiah7:14 The Lord himself will give you a miraculous sign. The virgin is going to have a baby. She will give birth to a son. And he will be called Immanuel. 
Isaiah7:15 The time will come when he is old enough to decide between what is wrong and what is right. By that time he will have only butter and honey to eat. 
Isaiah7:16 But even before that happens, the lands of the two kings you are afraid of will be completely destroyed." 
Isaiah7:17 The Lord will also bring the king of Assyria against you. And he will bring him against your people and the whole royal family. That will be a time of trouble unlike any since the people of Ephraim broke away from Judah. 
Isaiah7:18 At that time the Lord will whistle for the Egyptians. They will come like flies from the streams of Egypt. He will also whistle for the Assyrians. They will come from their country like bees. 
Isaiah7:19 All of them will come and camp in the deep valleys. They will camp in caves in the rocks. And they'll camp near bushes and water holes. 
Isaiah7:20 At that time the Lord will use the Assyrians to punish you. Ahaz had hired them earlier from east of the Euphrates River. Now their king will be like a razor in the Lord's hand. He will shave the hair from your head and legs. He will also shave off your beards. 
Isaiah7:21 At that time a man will only be able to keep one young cow and two goats alive. 
Isaiah7:22 But they will give enough milk and butter to live on. Everyone who is left alive in the land will have nothing but butter and honey to eat. 
Isaiah7:23 The land used to have vineyards with 1,000 vines worth 25 pounds of silver. But soon the whole land will be covered with thorns and bushes." 
Isaiah7:24 Men will go there to hunt with bows and arrows. That's because it will be covered with bushes and thorns. 
Isaiah7:25 All of the hills used to be plowed with hoes. But you won't go there anymore. That's because you will be afraid of the thorns and bushes. Cattle will be turned loose on those hills. And sheep will run there. 
Isaiah8:1 The Lord said to me, ""Get a large scroll. Write 'Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz' on it with a pen." 
Isaiah8:2 I will send for Zechariah and the priest Uriah. They can be trusted. They will be witnesses for me. Zechariah is the son of Jeberekiah. 
Isaiah8:2 I will send for Zechariah and the priest Uriah. They can be trusted. They will be witnesses for me. Zechariah is the son of Jeberekiah. 
Isaiah8:3 Then I went and made love to my wife, who was a prophet. She became pregnant and had a baby boy. The Lord said to me, ""Name him Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz." 
Isaiah8:4 The king of Assyria will carry off the wealth of Damascus. He will also carry away the goods that were taken from Samaria. That will happen before the boy knows how to say 'My father' or 'My mother.' 
Isaiah8:5 The Lord continued," 
Isaiah8:6 I am like the gently flowing stream of Siloam. But the people of Judah have turned their backs on me. They are filled with joy because of the fall of Rezin and the son of Remaliah. 
Isaiah8:7 So I am about to bring against these people the king of Assyria and his whole army. The Assyrians will be like the mighty Euphrates River when it is flooding. They will run over everything in their path. 
Isaiah8:8 They will sweep on into Judah like a flood. They will pass through Judah and reach all the way to Jerusalem. Immanuel, they will attack your land like an eagle. Their wings will spread out and cover it.""" 
Isaiah8:9 Sound the battle cry, you nations! But you will be torn apart. Listen, all of you lands far away! Prepare for battle! But you will be torn apart. Prepare for battle! But you will be torn apart." 
Isaiah8:10 Make your battle plans! But you won't succeed. Give your orders! But they won't be carried out. That's because God is with us. 
Isaiah8:11 The Lord put his powerful hand on me and spoke to me. He warned me not to live the way these people live. He said," 
Isaiah8:12 People of Judah, do not agree with those who say Isaiah is guilty of treason. Do not fear what they fear. Do not be afraid." 
Isaiah8:13 I am the Lord who rules over all. You must think about me as holy. You must have respect for me. You must fear me. 
Isaiah8:14 Then I will be a holy place of safety for you. But for many people in Israel and Judah I will be a stone that causes them to trip. I will be a rock that makes them fall. And for the people of Jerusalem I will be a trap and a snare. 
Isaiah8:15 Many of them will trip. They will fall and be broken. They will be trapped and captured. 
Isaiah8:16 Keep safe what the Lord said to you through me. Seal up among my followers what he taught you through me. 
Isaiah8:17 I will wait for the Lord. He is turning his face away from Jacob's people. I will put my trust in him. 
Isaiah8:18 Here I am. Here are the children the Lord has given me. We are signs and reminders to Israel from the Lord who rules over all. He lives on Mount Zion. 
Isaiah8:19 Some will tell you to ask for advice from people who get messages from those who have died. Others will tell you to ask for advice from people who talk to the spirits of the dead. But those people only whisper. Their words are barely heard. So shouldn't you ask for advice from your God? Why should you get advice from dead people to help those who are alive? 
Isaiah8:20 Follow what the Lord taught you and said to you through me. People who don't speak in keeping with those words won't have any hope in the morning. 
Isaiah8:21 They will suffer and be hungry. They'll wander through the land. When they are very hungry, they will become angry. They'll look up toward heaven. They'll call down curses on their king and their God." 
Isaiah8:22 Then they will look at the earth. They'll see nothing but suffering and darkness. They'll see terrible sadness. They'll be driven into total darkness. 
Isaiah9:1 But there won't be any more sadness for those who were suffering. In the past the Lord brought shame on the land of Zebulun. He also brought shame on the land of Naphtali. But in days to come he will honor Galilee, where people from other nations live. He will honor the land along the Mediterranean Sea. And he will honor the territory east of the Jordan River." 
Isaiah9:2 The people who are now living in darkness will see a great light. They are now living in a very dark land. But a light will shine on them. 
Isaiah9:3 Lord, you will make our nation larger. You will increase their joy. They will show you how glad they are. They will be as glad as people are at harvest time. They will be as glad as soldiers are when they share the things they've taken after a battle." 
Isaiah9:4 You set Israel free from Midian long ago. In the same way, you will break the heavy yoke that weighs Israel down. You will break the wooden beams that are on their shoulders. You will break the rods of those who strike them down." 
Isaiah9:5 Every fighting man's boot that is used in battle will be burned up. So will every piece of clothes that is covered with blood. All of them will be thrown into the fire. 
Isaiah9:6 A child will be born to us. A son will be given to us. He will rule over us. And he will be called Wonderful Adviser and Mighty God. He will also be called Father Who Lives Forever and Prince Who Brings Peace. 
Isaiah9:7 The authority of his rule will continue to grow. The peace he brings will never end. He will rule on David's throne and over his kingdom. He will make the kingdom strong and secure. His rule will be based on what is fair and right. It will last forever. The Lord's great love will make sure that happens. He rules over all. 
Isaiah9:8 The Lord has sent a message against Jacob's people. He will punish Israel. 
Isaiah9:9 All of the people will know about it. Ephraim's people and those who live in Samaria will know about it. Their hearts are very proud. They say," 
Isaiah9:10 The brick buildings have fallen down. But we will rebuild them with blocks of stone. The fig trees have been chopped down. But we'll plant cedar trees in place of them. 
Isaiah9:11 In spite of that, the Lord has made Rezin's enemies stronger. He has stirred up Assyria to fight against Israel." 
Isaiah9:12 Arameans from the east have opened their mouths and swallowed Israel up. So have Philistines from the west. Even then, the Lord is still angry. His hand is still raised against them." 
Isaiah9:13 But his people have not returned to the One who struck them down. They haven't turned for help to the Lord who rules over all. 
Isaiah9:14 So he will cut off from Israel heads and tails alike. In a single day he will cut off palm branches and tall grass alike. The palm branches are the people who rule over others. The tall grass is the people who bow down to them. 
Isaiah9:15 The elders and important leaders are the heads. The prophets who teach lies are the tails. 
Isaiah9:16 Those who guide the people of Israel are leading them down the wrong path. So those who follow them aren't on the right road. 
Isaiah9:17 The Lord will not be pleased with the young men. He won't take pity on widows and on children whose fathers have died. All of them are ungodly and evil. They say sinful things with their mouths. Even then, the Lord is still angry. His hand is still raised against them." 
Isaiah9:18 What is evil burns like a fire. It burns up bushes and thorns. It sets the forest on fire. It sends up a huge column of smoke. 
Isaiah9:19 The Lord rules over all. When he gets angry, he will burn up the land. The people will die. Men will eat their brothers." 
Isaiah9:20 People will eat up everything they can find on their right. But they'll still be hungry. They will eat everything they can find on their left. But they won't be satisfied. So they will eat the dead bodies of their children. 
Isaiah9:21 That's what Manasseh's people will do to Ephraim. And that's what Ephraim's people will do to Manasseh. Together they will turn against Judah. Even then, the Lord is still angry. His hand is still raised against them." 
Isaiah10:1 How terrible it will be for you who make laws that aren't fair! How terrible for you who write laws that make life hard for others! 
Isaiah10:2 You take away the rights of poor people. You hold back what is fair from my people who are suffering. You take for yourselves what belongs to widows. You rob children whose fathers have died. 
Isaiah10:3 What will you do on the day when the Lord punishes you? On that day trouble will come from far away. Who will you run to for help? Who will you trust your riches with? 
Isaiah10:4 All you can do is bow down in fear among the prisoners. All you can do is fall among those who have died in battle. Even then, the Lord is still angry. His hand is still raised against them." 
Isaiah10:5 The Lord says, ""How terrible it will be for the people of Assyria! They are the war club that carries out my anger." 
Isaiah10:6 I will send them against the ungodly nation of Judah. I will order them to fight against my own people. They make me angry. I will order them to take their goods and carry them away. I will order them to walk on my people as if they were walking on mud. 
Isaiah10:7 But that is not what the king of Assyria plans. It is not what he has in mind. His purpose is to destroy many nations. His purpose is to put an end to them. 
Isaiah10:8 'Aren't all of my commanders kings?' he says. 
Isaiah10:9 'I took over Calno just as I took Carchemish. I took over Hamath just as I did Arpad. I took Samaria just as I did Damascus. 
Isaiah10:10 My powerful hand grabbed hold of kingdoms whose people worship statues of gods. They had more gods than Jerusalem and Samaria did. 
Isaiah10:11 I took over Samaria and its statues of gods. In the same way, I will take Jerusalem and its gods.' """ 
Isaiah10:12 The Lord will finish everything he has planned to do against Mount Zion and Jerusalem. Then he'll say, ""Now I will punish the king of Assyria. I will punish him because his heart and his eyes are so proud." 
Isaiah10:13 The king of Assyria says, "" 'I have used my powerful hand to take over all of those nations. I am very wise. I have great understanding. I have wiped out the borders between nations. I've taken their treasures. Like a great hero I've brought their kings under my control." 
Isaiah10:14 I've taken the wealth of the nations. It was as easy as reaching into a bird's nest. I've gathered the riches of all of those countries. It was as easy as gathering eggs that have been left in a nest. Not a single baby bird flapped its wings. Not one of them opened its mouth to chirp.' 
Isaiah10:15 Does an ax claim to be more important than the one who swings it? Does a saw brag that it is better than the one who uses it? That would be like a stick swinging someone who picks it up! It would be like a war club waving the one who carries it! 
Isaiah10:16 So the Lord who rules over all will send a sickness. The Lord will send it on the king of Assyria's strong fighting men. It will make them weaker and weaker. The army he was so proud of will be completely destroyed. It will be as if it had been burned up in a fire. 
Isaiah10:17 The Lord is the light of Israel. He will become a fire. Israel's Holy One will become a flame. In a single day he will burn up all of Assyria's bushes. He will destroy all of their thorns. 
Isaiah10:18 He will completely destroy the beauty of their forests and rich farm lands. The Assyrian army will be like a sick man who becomes weaker and weaker. 
Isaiah10:19 It will be like the trees of their forests. So few of them will be left standing that even a child could count them. 
Isaiah10:20 In days to come, some people will still be left alive in Israel. They will be from Jacob's family line. But they won't depend any longer on the nation that struck them down. Instead, they will truly depend on the Lord. He is the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah10:21 The people of Jacob who are still alive will return to the Mighty God. 
Isaiah10:22 Israel, your people might be as many as the grains of sand by the sea. But only a few of them will return. The Lord has handed down a death sentence. He will destroy his people. What he does is right." 
Isaiah10:23 The Lord who rules over all will carry out his sentence. The Lord will destroy the whole land. 
Isaiah10:24 The Lord rules over all. The Lord says, ""My people who live in Zion, do not be afraid of the Assyrian army. They beat you with rods. They lift up war clubs against you, just as the Egyptians did." 
Isaiah10:25 Very soon I will not be angry with you anymore. I will turn my anger against the Assyrians. I will destroy them. 
Isaiah10:26 The Lord who rules over all will beat them with a whip. He will strike them down as he struck Midian down at the rock of Oreb. And he will reach his wooden staff out over the waters. That's what he did in Egypt. 
Isaiah10:27 People of Zion, in days to come he will lift the heavy load of the Assyrians from your shoulders. He will remove their yokes from your necks. They will be broken because you have become so strong." 
Isaiah10:28 The Assyrian army has entered the town of Aiath. They have passed through Migron. They have stored up supplies at Micmash. 
Isaiah10:29 They have marched through the pass there. They said, ""Let's camp for the night at Geba."" The people of Ramah tremble with fear. Those who live in Gibeah of Saul run away." 
Isaiah10:30 Town of Gallim, cry out! Laishah, listen! Poor Anathoth!" 
Isaiah10:31 The people of Madmenah are running away. Those who live in Gebim are hiding. 
Isaiah10:32 Today the Assyrians have stopped at Nob. They are shaking their fists at Mount Zion in the city of Jerusalem. 
Isaiah10:33 The Assyrian soldiers are like trees in a forest. The Lord who rules over all will chop them down. The Lord will cut off their branches with his great power. He will chop the tall trees down. He will cut down even the highest ones. 
Isaiah10:34 The Mighty One will chop down the forest with his ax. He will cut down the cedar trees in Lebanon. 
Isaiah11:1 Jesse's family is like a tree that has been cut down. A new little tree will grow from its stump. From its roots a Branch will grow and produce fruit. 
Isaiah11:2 The Spirit of the Lord will rest on that Branch. He will help him to be wise and understanding. He will help him make wise plans and carry them out. He will help him know the Lord and have respect for him. 
Isaiah11:3 The Branch will take delight in respecting the Lord. He will not judge things only by the way they look. He won't make decisions based simply on what people say. 
Isaiah11:4 He will always do what is right when he judges those who are in need. He'll be completely fair when he makes decisions about poor people. When he commands that people be punished, it will happen. When he orders that evil people be put to death, it will take place." 
Isaiah11:5 He will put godliness on as if it were his belt. He'll wear faithfulness around his waist. 
Isaiah11:6 Wolves will live with lambs. Leopards will lie down with goats. Calves and lions will eat together. And little children will lead them around. 
Isaiah11:7 Cows will eat with bears. Their little ones will lie down together. And lions will eat straw like oxen. 
Isaiah11:8 A baby will play near a hole where cobras live. A young child will put his hand into a nest where poisonous snakes live. 
Isaiah11:9 None of those animals will harm or destroy anything or anyone on my holy mountain of Zion. The oceans are full of water. In the same way, the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord." 
Isaiah11:10 At that time the man who is called the Root from Jesse's family line will be like a banner that brings nations together. They will come to him. And the place where he rules will be glorious. 
Isaiah11:11 At that time the Lord will reach out his hand to gather his people a second time. He will bring back those who are left alive. He'll bring them back from Assyria, Lower Egypt, Upper Egypt and Cush. He'll bring them from Elam, Babylonia and Hamath. He will also bring them from the islands of the Mediterranean Sea." 
Isaiah11:12 He will lift up a banner. It will show the nations that he is gathering the people of Israel. He'll bring back those who had been taken away as prisoners. He'll gather together the scattered people of Judah. He'll bring them back from all four directions. 
Isaiah11:13 Ephraim's people won't be jealous anymore. Judah's attackers will be cut off. Ephraim won't be jealous of Judah. And Judah won't attack Ephraim. 
Isaiah11:14 Together they will rush down the slopes of Philistia to the west. They'll take what belongs to the people of the east. They'll take over Edom and Moab. The people of Ammon will be under their control. 
Isaiah11:15 The Lord will dry up the Red Sea in Egypt. With his powerful hand he'll send a burning wind to sweep over the Euphrates River. He will break it up into many streams. Then people will be able to go across it wearing sandals. 
Isaiah11:16 There was a road the people of Israel used when they came up from Egypt. In the same way, there will be a wide road coming out of Assyria. It will be used by the Lord's people who are left alive there." 
Isaiah12:1 In days to come, the people of Israel will sing, ""Lord, we will praise you. You were angry with us. But now your anger has turned away from us. And you have brought us comfort." 
Isaiah12:2 God, you are the one who saves us. We will trust in you. Then we won't be afraid. Lord, you give us strength. We sing about you. Lord, you have saved us.""" 
Isaiah12:3 People of Israel, he will save you. That will bring you joy like water that is brought up from wells." 
Isaiah12:4 In days to come, the people of Israel will sing, ""Give thanks to the Lord. Worship him. Tell the nations what he has done. Announce how honored he is." 
Isaiah12:5 Sing to the Lord. He has done glorious things. Let it be known all over the world. 
Isaiah12:6 People of Zion, give a loud shout! Sing with joy! The Holy One of Israel is among you. And he is great.""" 
Isaiah13:1 Here is the vision about Babylonia that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw." 
Isaiah13:2 Lift up a banner on the top of a bare hill. Shout to the enemy soldiers. Wave for them to enter the gates that are used by the nobles of Babylon. 
Isaiah13:3 The Lord has set those soldiers apart to fight for him. He has sent for them to carry out his anger against Babylon. They will be happy when he wins the battle for them. 
Isaiah13:4 Listen! I hear a noise in the mountains. It sounds like a huge crowd. Listen! I hear a loud noise among the kingdoms. It sounds like nations gathering together. The Lord who rules over all is bringing an army together for war. 
Isaiah13:5 They come from lands far away. They come from the farthest places on earth. The Lord and those weapons of his anger are coming to destroy the whole country of Babylonia. 
Isaiah13:6 Cry out! The day of the Lord is near. The Mighty One is coming to destroy them. 
Isaiah13:7 Their hands won't be able to help them. Everyone's heart will melt away in fear. 
Isaiah13:8 The people will be filled with terror. Pain and suffering will grab hold of them. They will groan with pain like a woman having a baby. They'll look at one another in terror. Their faces will burn with shame. 
Isaiah13:9 The day of the Lord is coming. It will be a terrible day. The Lord's burning anger will blaze out. He will make the land dry and empty. He'll destroy the sinners in it. 
Isaiah13:10 All of the stars in the sky will stop giving their light. The sun will be darkened as soon as it rises. The moon will not shine. 
Isaiah13:11 The Lord will punish the world because it is so evil. He will punish evil people for their sins. He'll put an end to the bragging of those who are proud. He'll bring down the pride of those who don't show any pity. 
Isaiah13:12 He'll make men harder to find than pure gold. They will be harder to find than gold from Ophir. 
Isaiah13:13 He will make the heavens tremble. He'll shake the earth out of its place. The Lord who rules over all will show how angry he is. At that time his burning anger will blaze out. 
Isaiah13:14 Outsiders who live in Babylonia will scatter like antelope that are chased by a hunter. They are like sheep that don't have a shepherd. All of them will return to their own people. They will run back to their own countries. 
Isaiah13:15 Those who are captured will have spears stuck through them. Those who are caught will be killed with swords. 
Isaiah13:16 Their babies will be smashed to pieces right in front of their eyes. Their houses will be robbed. Their wives will be raped. 
Isaiah13:17 The Lord will stir up the Medes to attack the Babylonians. They aren't interested in getting silver. They don't delight in gold. 
Isaiah13:18 Instead, they will use their bows and arrows to strike the young men down. They won't even show any mercy to babies. They won't take pity on children." 
Isaiah13:19 The city of Babylon is the jewel of kingdoms. It is the glory and pride of the Babylonians. But God will destroy it just as he did Sodom and Gomorrah. 
Isaiah13:20 No one will ever live in Babylon again. No one will live there for all time to come. Arabs will never set up their tents there. Shepherds will never rest their flocks there. 
Isaiah13:21 But desert creatures will lie down there. Wild dogs will fill its houses. Owls will live there. Wild goats will jump around in it. 
Isaiah13:22 Hyenas will cry out in its forts. Wild dogs will bark in its beautiful palaces. The time for Babylon to be punished is near. Its days are numbered. 
Isaiah14:1 The Lord will show tender love toward Jacob's people. Once again he will choose Israel. He'll settle them in their own land. Outsiders will join them. They and the people of Jacob will become one people. 
Isaiah14:2 Nations will help Israel return to their own land. People from other nations will belong to Israel. They will serve them as male and female servants in the Lord's land. The Israelites will make prisoners of those who had held them as prisoners. They will rule over those who had crushed them. 
Isaiah14:3 The Lord will put an end to Israel's suffering and trouble. They won't be slaves anymore. 
Isaiah14:4 They will make fun of the king of Babylonia. They will say, ""See how the one who crushed others has fallen! See how his anger has come to an end!" 
Isaiah14:5 The Lord has taken away the authority of evil people. He has broken the power of rulers. 
Isaiah14:6 When they became angry, they struck nations down. Their blows never stopped. In their anger they brought nations under their control. They attacked them again and again." 
Isaiah14:7 All of the lands now enjoy peace and rest. They break out into singing. 
Isaiah14:8 Even the pine trees are glad. The cedar trees of Lebanon are happy too. They say, 'Babylon, you have fallen. Now no one comes and cuts us down.'" 
Isaiah14:9 King of Babylonia, many people in the grave are really excited about meeting you when you go down there. The spirits of the dead get up to welcome you. At one time all of them were leaders in the world. They were kings over the nations. They get up from their thrones." 
Isaiah14:10 All of them call out to you. They say, 'You have become weak, just as we are. You have become like us.'" 
Isaiah14:11 Your grand show of power has been brought down to the grave. The noise of your harps has come down here along with your power. Maggots are spread out under you. Worms cover you. 
Isaiah14:12 King of Babylonia, you thought you were the bright morning star. But now you have fallen from heaven! You once brought nations down. But now you have been thrown down to the earth!" 
Isaiah14:13 You said in your heart, 'I will go up to heaven. I'll raise my throne above the stars of God. I'll sit as king on the mountain where the gods meet. I'll set up my throne on the highest slopes of the sacred mountain." 
Isaiah14:14 I will rise above the tops of the clouds. I'll make myself like the Most High God.' 
Isaiah14:15 But now you have been brought down to the grave. You have been thrown into the deepest part of the pit. 
Isaiah14:16 Those who see you stare at you. They think about what has happened to you. They say to themselves, 'Is this the man who shook the earth? Is he the one who made kingdoms tremble with fear?" 
Isaiah14:17 Did he turn the world into a desert? Did he destroy its cities? Did he refuse to let his prisoners go home?' 
Isaiah14:18 All of the kings of the nations are buried with honor. Each of them lies in his own tomb. 
Isaiah14:19 But you have been thrown out of your tomb. You are like a branch that is cut off and thrown away. You are covered with the bodies of those who have been killed with swords. You have been tossed into a stony pit along with them. You are like a dead body that people have walked on. 
Isaiah14:20 You won't be buried like other kings. That's because you have destroyed your land. You have killed your people. The children of that evil man will be killed. None of them will be left to carry on the family name. 
Isaiah14:21 So prepare a place to kill his children. Kill them because of the sins of the rulers who lived before them. They must not rise to power. They must not rule over the world. They must not cover the earth with their cities. 
Isaiah14:22 I will rise up against them,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""I will destroy Babylon. It will not be remembered anymore. No one will be left alive there. I will destroy its people and their children after them,"" announces the Lord." 
Isaiah14:23 I will turn it into a place where nothing but owls can live. I will turn it into a swamp. I will sweep through it like a broom and destroy everything,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Isaiah14:24 The Lord who rules over all has taken an oath. He has said, ""You can be sure that what I have planned will happen. What I have decided will take place." 
Isaiah14:25 I will crush the Assyrians in my land. On my mountains I will walk all over them. The yokes they put on my people will be removed. The heavy load they put on their shoulders will be taken away. 
Isaiah14:26 That's how the Lord carries out his plan all over the world. That's how he reaches out his powerful hand to punish all of the nations. 
Isaiah14:27 The Lord who rules over all has planned it. Who can stop him? He has reached out his powerful hand. Who can keep him from using it? 
Isaiah14:28 A message came to me from the Lord in the year King Ahaz died. The Lord said," 
Isaiah14:29 The rod of Assyria has struck all of you Philistines. But do not be glad that it is broken. That rod is like a snake that will produce an even more poisonous snake. It will produce a darting, poisonous serpent." 
Isaiah14:30 Even the poorest people in Israel will have plenty to eat. Those who are in need will lie down in safety. But I will destroy your families. They will die of hunger. I will kill any of them who are still left alive. 
Isaiah14:31 Cities of Philistia, cry out for help! Scream in pain! All of you Philistines, melt away in fear! An army is coming from the north in a cloud of dust. No one in its ranks is falling behind." 
Isaiah14:32 What answer should be given to the messengers from that nation? Tell them, 'The Lord has made Zion secure. His suffering people will find safety there.' """ 
Isaiah15:1 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Moab. The city of Ar in Moab is destroyed. It happened in a single night. Kir in Moab is also destroyed. It happened in a single night. 
Isaiah15:2 The people of Dibon go up to their temple to worship. They go to their high places to sob. The people of Moab cry over the cities of Nebo and Medeba. All of their heads are shaved. All of their beards have been cut off. 
Isaiah15:3 In the streets they wear black clothes. On their roofs and in the market places all of them are crying. They fall down flat with their faces toward the ground. And they sob. 
Isaiah15:4 The people of Heshbon and Elealeh cry out. Their voices are heard all the way to Jahaz. So the fighting men of Moab cry out. Their hearts are weak. 
Isaiah15:5 My heart cries out over Moab. Some who run away get as far as Zoar. Others run all the way to Eglath Shelishiyah. Others go up the road to Luhith. They are sobbing as they go. Still others travel the road to Horonaim. They sing a song of sadness because their town is being destroyed. 
Isaiah15:6 The waters at Nimrim are dried up. And so is the grass. The plants have died. Nothing green is left. 
Isaiah15:7 The people are trying to escape through the Valley of the Poplar Trees. They are carrying with them the wealth they have collected and stored up. 
Isaiah15:8 Their loud cries echo along the border of Moab. They reach as far as Eglaim. Their songs of sadness reach all the way to Beer Elim. 
Isaiah15:9 The waters of the city of Dimon are full of blood. But the Lord will bring even more trouble on Dimon. He will bring lions against those who run away from Moab. They will also attack those who remain in the land. 
Isaiah16:1 People of Moab, send lambs as a gift to the ruler of Judah. Send them from Sela. Send them across the desert. Send them to Mount Zion in the city of Jerusalem." 
Isaiah16:2 The women of Moab are at the places where people go across the Arnon River. They are like birds that flap their wings when they are pushed from their nest. 
Isaiah16:3 The Moabites say to the rulers of Judah, ""Give us advice. Make a decision. Cover us with your shadow. Make it like night even at noon. Hide those of us who are running away. Don't turn them over to their enemies." 
Isaiah16:4 Let those who have run away from Moab stay with you. Keep them safe from those who are trying to destroy them. Those who crush others will be destroyed. The killing will stop. The attackers will disappear from the earth. 
Isaiah16:5 A man from the royal house of David will sit on Judah's throne. He will rule with faithful love. When he judges he will do what is fair. He will be quick to do what is right. 
Isaiah16:6 We have heard all about Moab's pride. We have heard how very proud they are. They think they are so much better than others. They brag about themselves. But all of their bragging is nothing but empty words. 
Isaiah16:7 So the people of Moab cry out. All of them cry over their country. Sing a song of sadness. Sob over the men of Kir Hareseth. 
Isaiah16:8 The vineyards of Heshbon dry up. So do the vines of Sibmah. The rulers of the nations have walked all over its finest vines. Those vines once reached as far as Jazer. They spread out toward the desert. Their new growth went all the way to the Dead Sea. 
Isaiah16:9 Jazer sobs over the vines of Sibmah. And so do I. Heshbon and Elealeh, I soak you with my tears! There isn't any ripe fruit for people to shout about. There isn't any harvest to make them happy." 
Isaiah16:10 Joy and gladness are taken away from the orchards. No one sings or shouts in the vineyards. No one stomps on grapes at the winepresses. That's because the Lord has put an end to the shouting. 
Isaiah16:11 My heart sobs over Moab like a song of sadness played on a harp. Deep down inside me I sob over Kir Hareseth. 
Isaiah16:12 Moab's people go to their high place to pray. But all they do is wear themselves out. Their god Chemosh can't help them at all. 
Isaiah16:13 That's the message the Lord has already spoken about Moab. 
Isaiah16:14 But now he says, ""In exactly three years, people will look down on Moab's glory. Now Moab has many people. But by that time only a few of them will be left alive. And even they will be weak.""" 
Isaiah17:1 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Damascus. He said, ""Damascus will not be a city anymore. Instead, all of its buildings will be knocked down." 
Isaiah17:2 The cities of Aroer will be deserted. They will be left to the flocks that lie down there. No one will make them afraid. 
Isaiah17:3 Ephraim's people will no longer have cities with high walls around them. Royal power will disappear from Damascus. Those who are left alive in Aram will be like the glory of the people of Israel,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Isaiah17:4 In days to come, the glory of Jacob's people will fade. Their strength will get weaker and weaker." 
Isaiah17:5 It will be as when a worker cuts and gathers grain in the Valley of Rephaim. He gathers up stalks with his arms. Only a few heads of grain are left. 
Isaiah17:6 In the same way, only a few people will be left alive. It will be as when workers knock olives off the trees. Only two or three olives are left on the highest branches. Four or five at most are left on the limbs that produce fruit,"" announces the Lord, the God of Israel." 
Isaiah17:7 In days to come, men will look to their Maker for help. They will turn their eyes to the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah17:8 They won't trust in the altars they made with their own hands. They won't pay any attention to the poles they used to worship the goddess Asherah. And they won't depend on the incense altars they made with their own fingers. 
Isaiah17:9 At that time the strong cities in Israel will be deserted. They will be as they were when the Israelites drove the Canaanites out of them. They will be like places that are taken over by bushes and weeds. The whole land will become dry and empty. 
Isaiah17:10 Israel, you have forgotten God, who saves you. You have not remembered the Rock, who keeps you safe. You might set out the finest plants. You might plant vines from other lands." 
Isaiah17:11 The plants might start to grow on the day you set them out. The vines might begin to bud on the morning you plant them. But even if they do, there won't be any harvest. Instead, there will be sickness and pain that won't go away." 
Isaiah17:12 How terrible it looks for us! Many nations are marching against us. The noise of their armies is like the sound of the ocean. They are making a lot of noise. It sounds like huge waves crashing on the shore. 
Isaiah17:13 It sounds like the roar of rushing waters. But when the Lord speaks out against them, they run far away. The wind blows them away like straw on the hills. A strong wind drives them along like tumbleweeds." 
Isaiah17:14 In the evening, the nations terrify us. But before morning comes, they are gone. That's what happens to those who steal our goods. That's what happens to those who take what belongs to us." 
Isaiah18:1 How terrible it will be for the land whose armies are like large numbers of flying insects! That land is along the rivers of Cush. 
Isaiah18:2 Its people send messengers on the Nile River. They travel over the water in papyrus boats. Messengers, hurry back home! Go back to your people, who are tall and have smooth skin. Everyone is afraid of them. They are warriors. Their language is different from ours. Their land is divided up by rivers." 
Isaiah18:3 Pay attention, all you people of the world! Listen, all you who live on earth! Banners will be lifted up on the mountains. And you will see them. Trumpets will be blown. And you will hear them." 
Isaiah18:4 The Lord says to me, ""I will look down from heaven, where I live. I will be as quiet as summer heat in the sunshine. I will be as quiet as a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.""" 
Isaiah18:5 A farmer cuts off new growth with pruning knives. He cuts down spreading branches and takes them away. He does it before the grapes are harvested. That's when the blooms are gone and the grapes are ripe. In the same way, the Lord will cut off the nations that are gathered against his people." 
Isaiah18:6 Their dead bodies will be left for the birds of the mountains to eat. They will be left for the wild animals. The birds will eat the dead bodies all summer long. The wild animals will eat them all through the winter. 
Isaiah18:7 At that time gifts will be brought to the Lord who rules over all. The people who are tall and have smooth skin will bring them. Everyone is afraid of those people. They are warriors. Their language is different from ours. Their land is divided up by rivers. They will bring their gifts to Mount Zion. That's where the Lord who rules over all has put his Name. 
Isaiah19:1 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Egypt. The Lord is coming to Egypt. He's riding on a cloud that moves very fast. The statues of the gods in Egypt tremble with fear because of him. The hearts of the people there melt away inside them. 
Isaiah19:2 The Lord says, ""I will stir up one Egyptian against another. Relatives will fight against relatives. Neighbors will fight against one another. Cities will fight against cities. Kingdoms will fight against one another." 
Isaiah19:3 The people of Egypt will lose hope. I will keep them from doing what they plan to do. They will ask their gods for advice. They will turn to the spirits of dead people for help. They will go to people who get messages from those who have died. They will ask for advice from people who talk to the spirits of the dead. 
Isaiah19:4 I will hand the Egyptians over to a mean and unkind master. A powerful king will rule over them,"" announces the Lord. He is the Lord who rules over all." 
Isaiah19:5 The waters of the Nile River will dry up. The bottom of it will be cracked and dry. 
Isaiah19:6 Its waterways will stink. And the streams of Egypt will get smaller and smaller until they dry up. The tall grass that grows along the river will dry up. 
Isaiah19:7 So will the plants along the banks of the Nile. Even the planted fields along the Nile will dry up. Everything that grows there will blow away and disappear. 
Isaiah19:8 The fishermen will moan. All those who drop hooks into the Nile will sob. Those who throw their nets on the water will become very sad. 
Isaiah19:9 Those who make clothes out of flax will lose hope. So will those who weave fine linen. 
Isaiah19:10 Those who work with cloth will be unhappy. And all those who work for money will be sick at heart. 
Isaiah19:11 The officials of the city of Zoan are very foolish. Pharaoh's wise men give advice that doesn't make any sense. How can they dare to say to Pharaoh, ""We're among the wise men""? How can they say to him, ""We're like the advisers to the kings of long ago""?" 
Isaiah19:12 Pharaoh, where are your wise men now? Let them tell you what the Lord who rules over all has planned against Egypt." 
Isaiah19:13 The officials of Zoan have become foolish. The leaders of Memphis have been lied to. The most important leaders in Egypt have led its people down the wrong path. 
Isaiah19:14 The Lord has given them a spirit that makes them feel dizzy. They make Egypt unsteady in everything it does. Egypt is like a person who drinks too much. He throws up and then walks around in the mess he's made. 
Isaiah19:15 No one in Egypt can do anything to help them. Its elders and important leaders can't help them. Its prophets and priests can't do anything. Those who rule over others can't help. And those who bow down to them can't help either. 
Isaiah19:16 In days to come, the people of Egypt will be as terrified as women. The Lord who rules over all will raise his hand against them. Then they will tremble with fear." 
Isaiah19:17 The people of Judah will bring terror to the Egyptians. Everyone in Egypt who hears the name of Judah will be terrified. That's because of what the Lord who rules over all is planning to do to them. 
Isaiah19:18 At that time the people of five cities in Egypt will use the Hebrew language when they worship the Lord who rules over all. They will take an oath. And they will promise to be faithful to him. One of those cities is called The City of the Sun. 
Isaiah19:19 At that time there will be an altar to the Lord in the middle of Egypt. There will be a monument to him at its border. 
Isaiah19:20 They will remind people that the Lord who rules over all is worshiped in Egypt. The people there will cry out to the Lord because of those who treat them badly. He will send someone to stand up for them and save them. And he will set them free. 
Isaiah19:21 So the Lord will make himself known to the people of Egypt. At that time they will recognize that he is the Lord. They will worship him by bringing sacrifices and grain offerings to him. They will make promises to the Lord. And they will keep them. 
Isaiah19:22 The Lord will strike Egypt with a plague. But then he will heal them. They will turn to the Lord. And he will answer their prayers and heal them. 
Isaiah19:23 At that time there will be a wide road from Egypt to Assyria. The people of Assyria will go to Egypt. And the people of Egypt will go to Assyria. The people of Egypt and Assyria will worship the Lord together. 
Isaiah19:24 At that time Egypt, Assyria and Israel will be a blessing to the whole earth." 
Isaiah19:25 The Lord who rules over all will bless those three nations. He will say, ""Let the Egyptians be blessed. They are my people. Let the Assyrians be blessed. My hands created them. And let the Israelites be blessed. They are my very own people.""" 
Isaiah20:1 Sargon sent his highest commander to the city of Ashdod. He attacked it and captured it. Sargon was king of Assyria. 
Isaiah20:2 Three years earlier the Lord had spoken to me. He had said, ""Take off the black clothes you are wearing. And take your sandals off."" So I did. I went around barefoot. I didn't have anything on but my underwear." 
Isaiah20:3 After Ashdod was captured, the Lord said, ""My servant Isaiah has gone around barefoot for three years. He has not worn anything but his underwear. He is a sign and reminder to Egypt and Cush about what will happen to them." 
Isaiah20:4 The king of Assyria will lead prisoners away from Egypt and Cush. Young people and old people alike will be taken away. Like Isaiah, they will be barefoot. They will not be wearing anything but their underwear. And their backsides will be bare. So the Egyptians will be put to shame." 
Isaiah20:5 People trusted in Cush to help them. They bragged about what Egypt could do for them. But they will be afraid and put to shame. 
Isaiah20:6 At that time the people who live on the coast of Philistia will speak up. They will say, 'See what has happened to those we depended on! We ran to them for help. We wanted them to save us from the king of Assyria. Now how can we escape?' """ 
Isaiah21:1 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Babylonia. It is known as the Desert by the Two Rivers. An attack is coming through the desert. It is coming from a land of terror. It's sweeping along like a windstorm blowing across the Negev Desert. 
Isaiah21:2 I have seen a vision about something terrible that will happen. People are turning against Babylon. Robbers are taking its goods. Elamites, attack the city! Medes, surround it! The Lord will put an end to all of the suffering Babylon has caused." 
Isaiah21:3 The vision fills my body with pain. Pains take hold of me. They are like the pains of a woman having a baby. I am shaken by what I hear. I'm terrified by what I see. 
Isaiah21:4 My heart grows weak. Fear makes me tremble. I longed for evening to come. But it brought me horror instead of rest. 
Isaiah21:5 In my vision the Babylonians set the tables. They spread the rugs out. They eat. They drink. Get up, you officers! Rub your shields with oil!" 
Isaiah21:6 The Lord said to me, ""Go. Put a guard on duty on Jerusalem's walls. Have him report what he sees." 
Isaiah21:7 Tell him to watch for chariots that are pulled by teams of horses. Tell him to watch for men riding on donkeys or camels. Make sure he stays awake. Make sure he stays wide awake. 
Isaiah21:8 My master! the guard shouts back. Day after day I stand here on the lookout tower. Every night I stay here on duty. 
Isaiah21:9 Look! Here comes a man in a chariot! It's being pulled by a team of horses. He's calling out the news, 'Babylon has fallen! It has fallen! All of the statues of its gods lie broken in pieces on the ground!' """ 
Isaiah21:10 My people, you have been crushed like grain on a threshing floor. But now I'm telling you the good news I've heard. It comes from the Lord who rules over all. He is the God of Israel." 
Isaiah21:11 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Edom. Someone is calling out to me from the land of Seir. He says, ""Guard, when will the night be over? Guard, how soon will it end?""" 
Isaiah21:12 The guard answers, ""Morning is coming. But the night will return. If you want to ask again, come back and ask.""" 
Isaiah21:13 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Arabia. He told me to give orders to traders from Dedan. They were camping in the bushes of Arabia. 
Isaiah21:14 I told them to bring water for those who are thirsty. I also gave orders to those who live in Tema. I told them to bring food for those who are running away. 
Isaiah21:15 They are running away from where the fighting is heaviest. That's where the swords are ready to strike. That's where the bows are ready to shoot. 
Isaiah21:16 The Lord says to me, ""In exactly one year, Kedar's grand show of power will come to an end." 
Isaiah21:17 Only a few of Kedar's soldiers who shoot arrows will be left alive. The Lord has spoken. He is the God of Israel. 
Isaiah22:1 Here is a message the Lord gave me about the Valley of Vision. People of Jerusalem, what's the matter with you? Why have all of you gone up on the roofs of your houses?" 
Isaiah22:2 Why is your town so full of noise? Why is your city so full of the sound of wild parties? Those among you who died weren't killed with swords. They didn't die in battle. 
Isaiah22:3 All of your leaders have run away. They've been captured without a single arrow being shot. All those who were caught were taken away as prisoners. They ran off while your enemies were still far away. 
Isaiah22:4 So I said, ""Leave me alone. Let me sob bitter tears. Don't try to comfort me. My people have been destroyed.""" 
Isaiah22:5 The Lord who rules over all sent the noise of battle against you. The Lord brought disorder and terror to the Valley of Vision. The walls of the city were knocked down. Cries for help were heard in the mountains. 
Isaiah22:6 Soldiers from Elam came armed with bows and arrows. They came with their chariots and horses. Soldiers from Kir got their shields ready. 
Isaiah22:7 Your rich valleys filled up with chariots. Horsemen took up their battle positions at your city gates. 
Isaiah22:8 Judah wasn't a safe place to live in anymore. When all of that happened, you depended on the weapons in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon." 
Isaiah22:9 You saw that the City of David had many holes in its walls. They needed to be repaired. You stored up water in the Lower Pool. 
Isaiah22:10 You picked out the weaker buildings in Jerusalem. You tore them down and used their stones to strengthen the city walls against attack. 
Isaiah22:11 You built a pool between the two walls. You used it to save the water that was running down from the Old Pool. But you didn't look to the One who made it all possible. You didn't pay any attention to the One who planned everything long ago. 
Isaiah22:12 The Lord who rules over all called out to you at that time. The Lord told you to sob and cry. He told you to tear your hair out. And he told you to put black clothes on. 
Isaiah22:13 Instead, you are enjoying yourselves at wild parties! You are killing cattle and sheep. You are eating their meat and drinking wine. You are saying, ""Let's eat and drink, because tomorrow we'll die.""" 
Isaiah22:14 I heard the Lord who rules over all speaking. Your sin can never be paid for as long as you people live,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah22:15 The Lord who rules over all speaks. The Lord says, ""Go. Speak to the head servant Shebna. He is in charge of the palace. Tell him," 
Isaiah22:16 'What are you doing here outside the city? Who allowed you to cut out a tomb for yourself here? Who said you could carve out your grave on the hillside? Who allowed you to cut out your resting place in the rock? 
Isaiah22:17  'Watch out, you mighty man! The Lord is about to grab hold of you. He is about to throw you away." 
Isaiah22:18 He will roll you up tightly like a ball. He will throw you into a very large country. There you will die. And there the chariots you are so proud of will remain. You bring shame on your master's family! 
Isaiah22:19 The Lord will remove you from your job. You will be brought down from your high position. 
Isaiah22:20  'At that time he will send for his servant Eliakim. He is the son of Hilkiah. 
Isaiah22:21 The Lord will put your robe on Eliakim. He will tie your belt around him. He will hand your authority over to him. Eliakim will be like a father to the people of Jerusalem and Judah. 
Isaiah22:22  'The Lord will give Eliakim the key of authority in David's royal house. No one can shut what he opens. And no one can open what he shuts. 
Isaiah22:23 The Lord will set him firmly in place like a peg that is driven into a wall. He will hold a position of honor in his family. 
Isaiah22:24 The good name of his whole family will depend on him. They will be like bowls and jars hanging on a peg. 
Isaiah22:25  'But a new day is coming,' "" announces the Lord who rules over all. "" 'At that time the peg that was driven into the wall will give way. It will break off and fall down. And the heavy load hanging on it will also fall.' "" The Lord has spoken." 
Isaiah23:1 Here is a message the Lord gave me about Tyre. Men in the ships of Tarshish, cry out! The city of Tyre is destroyed. Its houses and harbor are gone. That's the message you have received from the island of Cyprus." 
Isaiah23:2 People on the island of Tyre, be silent. Traders from the city of Sidon, be quiet. Those who sail on the Mediterranean Sea have made you rich." 
Isaiah23:3 Grain from Egypt came across the mighty waters. The harvest of the Nile River brought wealth to Tyre. It became the market place of the nations. 
Isaiah23:4 Sidon, be ashamed. Mighty Tyre out in the sea, be ashamed. The sea has spoken. It has said, ""It's as if I had never felt labor pains or had children. It's as if I had never brought up sons or daughters. It's as if the city of Tyre had never existed.""" 
Isaiah23:5 The Egyptians will hear about what has happened to Tyre. They'll be very sad and troubled. 
Isaiah23:6 People of the island of Tyre, cry out! Go across the sea to Tarshish." 
Isaiah23:7 Just look at Tyre. It's no longer the old, old city that was known for its wild parties. It no longer sends its people out to settle in lands far away." 
Isaiah23:8 Tyre was a city that produced kings. Its traders were princes. They were honored all over the earth. So who planned to destroy such a city? 
Isaiah23:9 The Lord who rules over all planned to do it. He wanted to bring down all of its pride and glory. He wanted to put to shame those who were honored all over the earth. 
Isaiah23:10 People of Tarshish, spread out over your land like the waters of the Nile. There isn't anything to hold you back anymore." 
Isaiah23:11 The Lord has reached his powerful hand out over the sea. He has made its kingdoms tremble with fear. He has given a command concerning Phoenicia. He has ordered that its forts be destroyed. 
Isaiah23:12 He said, ""No more wild parties for you! People of Sidon, you are now destroyed! ""Leave your city. Go across the sea to Cyprus. Even there you will not find any rest.""" 
Isaiah23:13 Look at the land of the Babylonians. No one lives there anymore. The Assyrians have turned it into a place for desert creatures. They built their towers in order to attack it. They took everything out of its forts. They knocked all of its buildings down. 
Isaiah23:14 Men in the ships of Tarshish, cry out! Mighty Tyre is destroyed!" 
Isaiah23:15 A time is coming when people will forget about Tyre for 70 years. That's the length of a king's life. But at the end of those 70 years, Tyre will be like the prostitute that people sing about. They say," 
Isaiah23:16 Forgotten prostitute, pick up a harp. Walk through the city. Play the harp well. Sing many songs. Then you will be remembered.""" 
Isaiah23:17 At the end of the 70 years, the Lord will punish Tyre. He will let it return to its way of life as a prostitute. It will earn its living with all of the kingdoms on the face of the earth." 
Isaiah23:18 But the money it earns will be set apart for the Lord. The money won't be stored up or kept for Tyre. Instead, it will go to those who live the way the Lord wants them to. It will pay for plenty of food and fine clothes for them." 
Isaiah24:1 The Lord is going to completely destroy everything on earth. He will twist its surface. He'll scatter those who live on it. 
Isaiah24:2 Priests and people alike will suffer. So will masters and their servants. And so will women and their female servants. Sellers and buyers alike will suffer. So will those who borrow and those who lend. And so will those who owe money and those who lend it. 
Isaiah24:3 The earth will be completely destroyed. Everything of value will be taken out of it. That's what the Lord has said. 
Isaiah24:4 The earth will dry up completely. The world will dry up and waste away. The most important people on earth will fade away. 
Isaiah24:5 The earth is polluted by its people. They haven't obeyed the laws of the Lord. They haven't done what he told them to do. They've broken the covenant that will last forever. 
Isaiah24:6 So the Lord will send a curse on the earth. Its people will pay for what they've done. They will be burned up. Very few of them will be left. 
Isaiah24:7 The vines and fresh wine will dry up completely. Those who used to have a good time will groan. 
Isaiah24:8 The happy sounds of tambourines will be gone. The noise of those who enjoy wild parties will stop. The joyful music of harps will become silent. 
Isaiah24:9 People will no longer sing as they drink wine. Beer will taste bitter to those who drink it. 
Isaiah24:10 Destroyed cities will lie empty. People will lock themselves inside their houses. 
Isaiah24:11 In the streets people will cry out for wine. All joy will turn into sadness. All happiness will be driven out of the earth. 
Isaiah24:12 All of the buildings will be knocked down. Every city gate will be smashed to pieces. 
Isaiah24:13 That's how it will be on the earth. And that's how it will be among the nations. It will be as when workers knock all but a few olives off the trees. It will be like a vine that has only a few grapes left after the harvest. 
Isaiah24:14 Those who are left alive will shout with joy. People from the west will praise the Lord because he is the King. 
Isaiah24:15 So give glory to him, you who live in the east. Honor the name of the Lord, you who are in the islands of the sea. He is the God of Israel." 
Isaiah24:16 From one end of the earth to the other we hear singing. People are saying, ""Give glory to the One who always does what is right."" But I said, ""I feel very bad. I'm getting weaker and weaker. How terrible it is for me! People turn against one another. They can't be trusted. So they turn against each other.""" 
Isaiah24:17 People of the earth, terror, a pit and a trap are waiting for you." 
Isaiah24:18 Anyone who runs away from the terror will fall into the pit. Anyone who climbs out of the pit will be caught in the trap. The Lord will open the windows of the skies. He will flood the land. The foundations of the earth will shake. 
Isaiah24:19 The earth will be broken up. It will split open. It will be shaken to pieces. 
Isaiah24:20 The earth will be unsteady like someone who is drunk. It will sway like a tent in the wind. Its sin will weigh so heavily on it that it will fall. It will never get up again. 
Isaiah24:21 At that time the Lord will punish the spiritual forces of evil in the heavens above. He will also punish the kings on the earth below. 
Isaiah24:22 They will be brought together like prisoners in chains. They'll be locked up in prison. After many days the Lord will punish them. 
Isaiah24:23 The Lord who rules over all will rule on Mount Zion in Jerusalem. The elders of the city will be there. They will see his glory. His rule will be so glorious that the sun and moon will be too ashamed to shine. 
Isaiah25:1 Lord, you are my God. I will honor you. I will praise your name. You have been perfectly faithful. You have done wonderful things. You had planned them long ago." 
Isaiah25:2 You have turned cities into piles of trash. You have pulled down the high walls that were around them. You have destroyed our enemies' forts. They will never be rebuilt. 
Isaiah25:3 Powerful nations will honor you. Even sinful people from their cities will have respect for you. 
Isaiah25:4 Poor people have come to you for safety. You have kept needy people safe when they were in trouble. You have been a place to hide when storms came. You have been a shade from the heat of the sun. Evil people attack us. They are like a storm beating against a wall. 
Isaiah25:5 They are like the heat of the desert. You stopped the noisy shouts of our enemies. You kept them from winning the battle over us and singing about it. You are like the shadow of a cloud that cools the earth. 
Isaiah25:6 On Mount Zion the Lord who rules over all will prepare a feast for all of the nations. The best and richest foods and the finest aged wines will be served. 
Isaiah25:7 On that mountain the Lord will destroy the veil of sadness that covers all of the nations. He will destroy the gloom that is spread over everyone. 
Isaiah25:8 He will swallow up death forever. The Lord and King will wipe away the tears from everyone's face. He will remove the shame of his people from the whole earth. The Lord has spoken. 
Isaiah25:9 At that time they will say, ""He is our God. We trusted in him, and he saved us. He is the Lord. We trusted in him. Let us be filled with joy because he saved us.""" 
Isaiah25:10 The Lord's powerful hand will keep Mount Zion safe. But he will walk all over Moab. Its people will be crushed, just as straw is crushed in animal waste." 
Isaiah25:11 They will try to swim their way out of it. They will spread their hands out in it, just as a swimmer spreads his hands out to swim. But God will bring down Moab's pride. None of their skill will help them." 
Isaiah25:12 He will pull down their high, strong walls. He will bring them down to the ground. He'll bring them right down to the dust." 
Isaiah26:1 At that time a song will be sung in the land of Judah. It will say, ""We have a strong city. God's saving power surrounds it like walls and towers." 
Isaiah26:2 Open its gates so that those who do what is right can enter. They are the people who remain faithful to God. 
Isaiah26:3 Lord, you will give perfect peace to anyone who commits himself to be faithful to you. That's because he trusts in you." 
Isaiah26:4 Trust in the Lord forever. The Lord is the Rock. The Lord will keep us safe forever. 
Isaiah26:5 He brings down those who are proud. He pulls down cities that have high walls. They fall down flat on the ground. He throws them down to the dust. 
Isaiah26:6 The feet of those who were crushed stomp on them. Those who were helpless walk all over them. 
Isaiah26:7 Lord, you are honest and fair. You guide those who do what is right. You lead them on a straight path. You make their way smooth." 
Isaiah26:8 Lord, we are living the way your laws command us to live. We are waiting for you to act. Our hearts long for you to be true to your name. That's what you are known for." 
Isaiah26:9 My heart longs for you at night. My spirit longs for you in the morning. You will come and judge the earth. Then the people of the world will learn to do what is right. 
Isaiah26:10 Grace is shown to sinful people. But they still don't learn to do what is right. They keep on doing evil even in a land where others are honest and fair. They don't have any respect for the majesty of the Lord. 
Isaiah26:11 Lord, you have raised your hand high to punish them. But they don't even see it. Let them see how much you love your people. Then they will be put to shame. Let the fire you are saving for your enemies burn them up." 
Isaiah26:12 Lord, you give us peace. You are the one who has done everything we've accomplished." 
Isaiah26:13 Lord, you are our God. Other masters besides you have ruled over us. But your name is the only one we honor." 
Isaiah26:14 Those other masters are now dead. They will never live again. Their spirits won't rise from the dead. You punished them and destroyed them. You wiped out all memory of them. 
Isaiah26:15 Lord, you have made our nation grow. You have made it larger. You have gained glory for yourself. You have increased the size of our land." 
Isaiah26:16 Lord, when your people were suffering, they came to you. When you punished them, they could barely whisper a prayer." 
Isaiah26:17 Lord, you made us like a woman who is having a baby. She groans and cries out in pain." 
Isaiah26:18 We were pregnant. We groaned with pain. But nothing was born. We didn't bring your saving power to the earth. We didn't give life to the people of the world. 
Isaiah26:19 Israel, those among you who have died will live again. Their bodies will rise from the dead. You who lie in the grave, wake up and shout with joy. The dew of the morning gives life to the earth. So the earth will give up its dead people." 
Isaiah26:20 My people, go into your houses. Shut the doors behind you. Hide yourselves for a little while. Do it until the Lord's anger is over." 
Isaiah26:21 He is coming from the place where he lives. He will punish the people of the earth for their sins. The blood that has been spilled on the earth will be brought out into the open. The ground will no longer hide those who have been killed. 
Isaiah27:1 At that time the Lord will punish Leviathan with his sword. His great, powerful and deadly sword will punish the serpent that glides through the sea. He will kill that twisting sea monster." 
Isaiah27:2 At that time the Lord will sing about his fruitful vineyard. He will say," 
Isaiah27:3 I am the Lord. I watch over my vineyard. I water it all the time. I guard it day and night. I do it so no one can harm it. 
Isaiah27:4 I am not angry with my vineyard. I wish thorns and bushes would come up in it. Then I would march out against them in battle. I would set all of them on fire. 
Isaiah27:5 So the enemies of my people had better come to me for safety. They should make peace with me. I will say it again. They should make peace with me. 
Isaiah27:6 In days to come, Jacob's people will put down roots like a vine. Israel will bud and bloom. They will fill the whole world with fruit." 
Isaiah27:7 The Lord struck down those who struck Israel down. But he hasn't punished Israel as much. The Lord killed those who killed many of his people. But he hasn't punished his people as much. 
Isaiah27:8 The Lord will use war to punish Israel. He will make them leave their land. With a strong blast of his anger he will drive them out. It will be as if the east wind were blowing. 
Isaiah27:9 The people of Jacob will have to pay for their sin. That must happen in order for their sin to be taken away. They will make all of the altar stones like chalk. They will crush them to pieces. No poles that had been used to worship the goddess Asherah will be left standing. No incense altars will be left either. 
Isaiah27:10 Cities that have high walls around them will become empty. They will be deserted settlements. They will be like a desert. Calves will eat and lie down in them. They will strip the branches of their trees bare. 
Isaiah27:11 When their twigs are dry, they will be broken off. Then women will come and make fires with them. The people of Jacob don't understand the Lord. So the One who made them won't be concerned about them. Their Creator won't show them his favor." 
Isaiah27:12 At that time the Lord will separate Israel from other people. He will gather the Israelites together. He will gather them one by one from the Euphrates River all the way to the Wadi of Egypt. 
Isaiah27:13 At that time a loud trumpet will be blown. Those who were dying in Assyria will come and worship the Lord. So will those who were taken away to Egypt. All of them will worship the Lord on his holy mountain in Jerusalem. 
Isaiah28:1 How terrible it will be for the city of Samaria! It sits on a hill like a crown of flowers. The leaders of Ephraim are drunk. They take pride in their city. It sits above a valley that has rich soil. How terrible it will be for the glorious beauty of that fading flower! 
Isaiah28:2 The Lord will bring the strong and powerful king of Assyria against Samaria. The Lord will throw that city down to the ground with great force. It will be like a hailstorm. It will be like a wind that destroys everything. It will be like a driving rain and a flooding storm. 
Isaiah28:3 That city is like a crown. The leaders of Ephraim are drunk. They take pride in their city. But its enemies will walk all over it. 
Isaiah28:4 It sits on a hill above a rich valley. It's like a crown of flowers whose glorious beauty is fading away. But it will become like a fig that is ripe before harvest. As soon as someone sees it, he picks it and swallows it." 
Isaiah28:5 At that time the Lord who rules over all will be like a glorious crown. He will be like a beautiful wreath for those of his people who will be left alive. 
Isaiah28:6 He will help those who are fair when they judge. He will give strength to those who turn back their enemies at the city gate. 
Isaiah28:7 Israel's leaders are drunk from wine. They can't walk straight. They are drunk from beer. They are unsteady on their feet. Priests and prophets drink beer. They can't walk straight. They are mixed up from drinking too much wine. They drink too much beer. They are unsteady on their feet. The prophets see visions but don't really understand them. The priests aren't able to make good decisions. 
Isaiah28:8 They throw up. All of the tables are covered with the mess they've made. There isn't one spot on the tables that isn't smelly and dirty. 
Isaiah28:9 My people are making fun of me. They say, ""Who does he think he's trying to teach? Who does he think he's explaining his message to? Is it to children who do not need their mother's milk anymore? Is it to those who have just been taken from her breast?" 
Isaiah28:10 Here is how he teaches. Do this and do that. Do that and do this. Obey this rule and obey that rule. Obey that rule and obey this rule. Learn a little here and learn a little there. 
Isaiah28:11 All right then, these people won't listen to me. So God will speak to them. He will speak by using people who speak unfamiliar languages. He will speak by using the mouths of strangers." 
Isaiah28:12 He said to his people, ""I am offering you a resting place. Let those who are tired rest."" He continued, ""I am offering you a place of peace and quiet."" But they wouldn't listen." 
Isaiah28:13 So then, here is what the Lord's message will become to them. Do this and do that. Do that and do this. Obey this rule and obey that rule. Obey that rule and obey this rule. Learn a little here and learn a little there. So when they try to go forward, they'll fall back and be wounded. They'll be trapped and captured." 
Isaiah28:14 Listen to the Lord's message, you who make fun of the truth. Listen, you who rule over these people in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah28:15 You brag, ""We have entered into a covenant with death. We have made an agreement with the grave. When a terrible plague comes to punish us, it can't touch us. That's because we depend on lies to keep us safe. We hide behind what isn't true.""" 
Isaiah28:16 So the Lord and King speaks. He says, ""Look! I am laying a stone in Zion. It is a stone that has been tested. It is the most important stone for a firm foundation. The one who trusts in that stone will never be shaken." 
Isaiah28:17 I will use a measuring line to prove that you have not been fair. I will use a plumb line to prove that you have not done what is right. Hail will sweep away the lies you depend on to keep you safe. Water will flood your hiding place. 
Isaiah28:18 Your covenant with death will be called off. The agreement you made with the grave will not stand. When the terrible plague comes to punish you, you will be beaten down by it." 
Isaiah28:19 As often as it comes, it will carry you away. Morning after morning, day and night, it will come to punish you."" If you understand this message, it will bring you absolute terror." 
Isaiah28:20 You will be like someone whose bed is too short to lie down on. You will be like those whose blankets are too small to wrap themselves in. 
Isaiah28:21 The Lord will rise up to judge, just as he did at Mount Perazim. He will get up to act, just as he did in the Valley of Gibeon. He'll do his work, but it will be strange work. He'll carry out his task, but it will be an unexpected one." 
Isaiah28:22 Now stop making fun of me. If you don't, your chains will become heavier. The Lord who rules over all has spoken to me. The Lord has told me he has ordered that the whole land be destroyed." 
Isaiah28:23 Listen and hear my voice. Pay attention to what I'm saying. 
Isaiah28:24 When a farmer plows in order to plant, does he plow without stopping? Does he keep on breaking up the soil and making the field level?" 
Isaiah28:25 When he's made the surface even, doesn't he plant caraway seeds? Doesn't he scatter cummin? Doesn't he plant wheat in its proper place? Doesn't he plant barley where it belongs? Doesn't he plant spelt along the edge of the field?" 
Isaiah28:26 His God directs him. He teaches him the right way to do his work. 
Isaiah28:27 Caraway seeds are beaten out with a rod. They aren't separated out under a threshing sled. Cummin seeds are beaten out with a stick. The wheel of a cart isn't rolled over them. 
Isaiah28:28 Grain must be ground up to make bread. A farmer separates it out. But he doesn't go on doing it forever. He drives the wheels of a threshing cart over it. But he doesn't let the horses grind it to dust. 
Isaiah28:29 All of those insights come from the Lord who rules over all. His advice is wonderful. His wisdom is glorious. 
Isaiah29:1 Jerusalem, how terrible it will be for you! Ariel, you are the city where David settled. The years will come and go. Keep on celebrating your regular feasts." 
Isaiah29:2 The Lord says, ""Ariel, I will surround you. Jerusalem, I will get ready to attack you. Your people will sob. They will sing songs of sadness. I will make you like the front of an altar that is covered with blood." 
Isaiah29:3 I will be like an army that is camped against you on all sides. I will surround you with towers in order to attack you. I will build my ramps all around you and set up my ladders. 
Isaiah29:4 You will be brought down to the grave. You will speak from deep down inside the ground. Your words will be barely heard out of the dust. Your voice will sound like the voice of a ghost coming from under the ground. Your words will sound like a whisper out of the dust. 
Isaiah29:5 Jerusalem, all of your enemies will become like fine dust. Their terrifying armies will become like straw that the wind blows away. All of a sudden, in an instant," 
Isaiah29:6 the Lord who rules over all will come. He will come with thunder, earthquakes and a lot of noise. He'll bring windstorms and rainstorms with him. He'll send a blazing fire that will burn everything up." 
Isaiah29:7 Armies from all of the nations will fight against Ariel. They will attack it and its fort. They'll surround it completely. But suddenly those armies will disappear like a dream. They will vanish like a vision in the night. 
Isaiah29:8 They will be like a hungry person who dreams he is eating. But when he wakes up, he's still hungry. They will be like a thirsty person who dreams he is drinking. But when he wakes up, he is weak. His thirst hasn't been satisfied. In the same way, the armies from all of the nations that fight against Mount Zion will disappear." 
Isaiah29:9 People of Jerusalem, be shocked and amazed. Make yourselves blind so you can't see anything. Get drunk, but not from wine. Be unsteady on your feet, but not because of beer." 
Isaiah29:10 The Lord has made you fall into a deep sleep. He has closed the eyes of your prophets. He has covered the heads of your seers so they can't see. 
Isaiah29:11 For you, this whole vision is like words that are sealed up in a scroll. Suppose you give it to someone who can read. And suppose you say to him, ""Please read this for us."" Then he'll answer, ""I can't. It's sealed up.""" 
Isaiah29:12 Or suppose you give the scroll to someone who can't read. And suppose you say, ""Please read this for us."" Then he'll answer, ""I don't know how to read.""" 
Isaiah29:13 The Lord says, ""These people worship me only with their words. They honor me by what they say. But their hearts are far away from me. Their worship doesn't mean anything to me. They teach nothing but human rules." 
Isaiah29:14 So once more I will shock these people with many wonderful acts. I will destroy the wisdom of those who think they are so wise. I will do away with the cleverness of those who think they are so smart. 
Isaiah29:15 How terrible it will be for people who do everything they can to hide their plans from the Lord! They do their work in darkness. They think, ""Who sees us? Who will know?""" 
Isaiah29:16 They turn everything upside down. How silly they are to think that potters are like the clay they work with! Can what is made say to the one who made it, ""You didn't make me""? Can the pot say to the potter, ""You don't know anything""?" 
Isaiah29:17 In a very short time, Lebanon will be turned into rich farm lands. The rich farm lands will seem like a forest." 
Isaiah29:18 At that time those who can't hear will hear what is read from the scroll. Those who are blind will come out of gloom and darkness. They will be able to see. 
Isaiah29:19 Those who aren't proud will once again find their joy in the Lord. And those who are in need will find their joy in the Holy One of Israel. 
Isaiah29:20 Those who don't show any pity will vanish. Those who make fun of others will disappear. All those who look for ways to do what is evil will be cut off. 
Isaiah29:21 Without any proof, they claim that a man is guilty. In court they try to trap the one who speaks up for others. By using dishonest witnesses they keep those who aren't guilty from being treated fairly." 
Isaiah29:22 Long ago the Lord saved Abraham from trouble. Now he says to Jacob's people, ""You will not be ashamed anymore. Your faces will no longer grow pale with fear." 
Isaiah29:23 You will see your children living among you. I myself will give you those children. Then you will honor my name. You will recognize how holy I am. I am the Holy One of Jacob. You will have great respect for me. I am the God of Israel. 
Isaiah29:24 I will give understanding to you who find yourselves going down the wrong path. You who are always speaking against others will accept what I teach you. 
Isaiah30:1 How terrible it will be for these stubborn children of mine! announces the Lord. How terrible for those who carry out plans that did not come from me! Their agreement with Egypt did not come from my Spirit. So they pile up one sin on top of another. 
Isaiah30:2 They go down to Egypt without asking me for advice. They look to Pharaoh to help them. They ask Egypt to keep them safe. 
Isaiah30:3 But looking to Pharaoh will only bring them shame. Asking Egypt for help will bring them dishonor. 
Isaiah30:4 Their officials have gone to the city of Zoan. Their messengers have arrived in Hanes. 
Isaiah30:5 But the people of Judah will be put to shame because they are trusting in a nation that is useless to them. Egypt will not bring them any help or advantage. Instead, it will bring them shame and dishonor.""" 
Isaiah30:6 Here is a message the Lord gave me about the animals in the Negev Desert. Judah's messengers carry their riches on the backs of donkeys. They carry their treasures on the humps of camels. They travel through a land of danger and suffering. It's a land that is filled with lions. Poisonous snakes are also there. The messengers travel to a nation that can't do them any good. 
Isaiah30:7 They travel to Egypt, whose help is totally useless. That's why I call it Rahab the Do-Nothing." 
Isaiah30:8 The Lord said to me, ""Go now. Write on a tablet for the people of Judah what I am about to say. Also write it on a scroll. In days to come it will be a witness that lasts forever." 
Isaiah30:9 The people of Judah refuse to obey me. They are children who tell lies. They will not listen to what I want to teach them. 
Isaiah30:10 They say to the seers, 'Don't see any more visions!' They say to the prophets, 'Don't give us any more visions of what is right! Tell us pleasant things. Prophesy things we want to hear even if they aren't true." 
Isaiah30:11 Get out of our way! Get off our path! Keep the Holy One of Israel away from us!' 
Isaiah30:12 So the Holy One of Israel speaks. He says, ""You have turned your backs on what I have said. You have depended on telling people lies. You have crushed others." 
Isaiah30:13 Those sins are like cracks in a high wall. They get bigger and bigger. Suddenly the wall breaks apart. Then it quickly falls down. 
Isaiah30:14 It breaks into small pieces like a clay pot. It breaks up completely. Not one piece is left big enough for taking coals from a fireplace. Not one piece is left for dipping water out of a well. 
Isaiah30:15 The Lord and King is the Holy One of Israel. He says, ""You will find peace and rest when you turn away from your sins and depend on me. You will receive the strength you need when you stay calm and trust in me. But you do not want to do what I tell you to." 
Isaiah30:16 You said, 'No. We'll escape on horses.' So you will have to escape! You said, 'We'll ride off on fast horses.' So those who chase you will use faster horses!" 
Isaiah30:17 When one of them dares you to fight, a thousand of you will run away. When five of them dare you, all of you will run away. So few of you will be left that you will be like a flagpole on top of a mountain. You will be like only one banner on a hill.""" 
Isaiah30:18 But the Lord longs to show you his favor. He wants to give you his tender love. The Lord is a God who is always fair. Blessed are all those who wait for him to act! 
Isaiah30:19 People of Zion, who live in Jerusalem, you won't sob anymore. When you cry out to the Lord for help, he will show you his favor. As soon as he hears you, he'll answer you." 
Isaiah30:20 He might treat you like prisoners. You might eat the bread of trouble. You might drink the water of suffering. But he will be your Teacher. He won't hide himself anymore. You will see him with your own eyes. 
Isaiah30:21 You will hear your Teacher's voice behind you. You will hear it whether you turn to the right or the left. It will say, ""Here is the path I want you to take. So walk on it.""" 
Isaiah30:22 Then you will get rid of the silver statues of your gods. You won't have anything to do with the gold statues either. All of them are unclean. So you will throw them away like dirty rags. You will say to them, ""Get away from us!""" 
Isaiah30:23 The Lord will send rain on the seeds you plant in the ground. The crops that grow will be rich and plentiful. At that time your cattle will eat grass in rolling meadows. 
Isaiah30:24 The oxen and donkeys that work the soil will eat the finest feed and crushed grain. The farmers will use pitchforks and shovels to separate it from the straw. 
Isaiah30:25 At that time the towers of your enemies will fall down. Their soldiers will die. Streams of water will flow on every high mountain and hill. 
Isaiah30:26 The moon will shine like the sun. And the sunlight will be seven times brighter than usual. It will be like the light of seven full days. That will happen when the Lord bandages and heals the wounds and bruises he has brought on his people. 
Isaiah30:27 The Lord will come from far away in all of his power and glory. He will show his burning anger. Thick clouds of smoke will be all around him. His mouth will speak angry words. The words from his tongue will be like a destroying fire. 
Isaiah30:28 His breath will be like a rushing flood that rises up to the neck. He'll separate out the nations he is going to destroy. He'll place a bit in their jaws. It will lead them down the road to death. 
Isaiah30:29 You will sing as you do on the night you celebrate a holy feast. Your hearts will be filled with joy. You will be as joyful as people playing their flutes as they go up to the mountain of the Lord. He is the Rock of Israel. 
Isaiah30:30 The Lord will cause people to hear his powerful voice. He will make them see his arm coming down to punish them. It will come down with burning anger and destroying fire. It will come down with rain, thunderstorms and hail." 
Isaiah30:31 The voice of the Lord will tear the Assyrians apart. He will strike them down with his mighty rod. 
Isaiah30:32 He will strike them with his rod to punish them. Each time he does, his people will celebrate with the music of harps and tambourines. He will use his powerful arm to strike the Assyrians down in battle." 
Isaiah30:33 In the Valley of Ben Hinnom, Topheth has been prepared for a long time. It has been made ready for the king of Assyria. Its fire pit has been made deep and wide. It has plenty of wood for the fire. The breath of the Lord will be like a stream of burning sulfur. It will set the wood on fire." 
Isaiah31:1 How terrible it will be for those who go down to Egypt for help! How terrible for those who depend on horses! They trust in how many chariots they have. They trust in how strong their horsemen are. But they don't look to the Holy One of Israel. They don't ask the Lord for his help. 
Isaiah31:2 He too is wise. He can bring horrible trouble. He does what he says he'll do. He'll rise up against everyone who does what is evil. He'll fight against those who help them. 
Isaiah31:3 The men of Egypt are only human. They aren't God. Their horses are only flesh and blood. They aren't spirits. The Lord will reach out his powerful hand to punish everyone. The Egyptians provide help. But they will be tripped up. The people of Judah receive the help. But they will fall down. All of them will be destroyed. 
Isaiah31:4 The Lord says to me, ""A powerful lion stands over its food and growls. A lot of shepherds can be brought together to drive it away. But the lion is not frightened by their shouts. It is not upset by the noise they make. In the same way, I will come down from heaven. I will fight on Mount Zion and on its hills. Nothing will drive me away. I am the Lord who rules over all." 
Isaiah31:5 Like a bird hovering over its nest, I will guard Jerusalem. I will keep it safe. I will pass over it and save it. I am the Lord who rules over all.""" 
Isaiah31:6 People of Israel, return to the Lord. He's the one you have so strongly opposed." 
Isaiah31:7 The time will come when every one of you will turn your backs on your gods of silver and gold. You sinned when you made them with your own hands. 
Isaiah31:8 The Lord says, ""The Assyrians will be killed with swords. But it will not be men who use them. The swords that kill them will not be used by human beings. The Assyrians will run away from those swords. But their young men will be caught and forced to work hard." 
Isaiah31:9 Their hiding places will be destroyed when terror strikes them. When their commanders see their enemy's battle flags, they will be filled with panic,"" announces the Lord. His fire blazes out from Mount Zion. His furnace burns in Jerusalem." 
Isaiah32:1 A king will come who will do what is right. His officials will govern fairly. 
Isaiah32:2 Each man will be like a place to get out of the wind. He will be like a place to hide from storms. He'll be like streams of water flowing in the desert. He'll be like the shadow of a huge rock in a dry and thirsty land. 
Isaiah32:3 Then the eyes of those who see won't be closed anymore. The ears of those who hear will listen to the truth. 
Isaiah32:4 The minds of thoughtless people will know and understand. Tongues that stutter will speak clearly. 
Isaiah32:5 Foolish people won't be considered noble anymore. Those who are worthless won't be highly respected. 
Isaiah32:6 A foolish person says foolish things. His mind is full of evil thoughts. He doesn't do what is right. He tells lies about the Lord. He doesn't give hungry people any food. He doesn't let thirsty people have any water. 
Isaiah32:7 The one who is worthless uses sinful methods. He makes evil plans against poor people. He destroys them with his lies. He does it even when those people are right. 
Isaiah32:8 But the man who is noble makes noble plans. And by doing noble things he succeeds. 
Isaiah32:9 You women who are so contented, pay attention to me. You who feel so secure, listen to what I have to say." 
Isaiah32:10 You feel secure now. But in a little over a year you will tremble with fear. The grape harvest will fail. There won't be any fruit. 
Isaiah32:11 So tremble, you contented women. Tremble with fear, you who feel so secure. Take your fine clothes off. Put black clothes on." 
Isaiah32:12 Beat your chests to show how sad you are. The pleasant fields have been destroyed. The fruitful vines have dried up. 
Isaiah32:13 My people's land is overgrown with thorns and bushes. Sob over all of the houses that were once filled with joy. Cry over this city that used to be full of wild parties. 
Isaiah32:14 The royal palace will be left empty. The noisy city will be deserted. The fort and lookout tower will become a dry and empty desert forever. Donkeys will enjoy being there. Flocks will eat there. 
Isaiah32:15 That will continue until the Holy Spirit is poured out on us from heaven. Then the desert will be turned into rich farm lands. The rich farm lands will seem like a forest. 
Isaiah32:16 In the desert and the rich farm lands people will do what is right. And they will treat one another fairly. 
Isaiah32:17 Doing what is right will bring peace and rest. When my people do that, they will stay calm and trust in the Lord forever." 
Isaiah32:18 They will live in a peaceful land. Their homes will be secure. They will enjoy peace and quiet. 
Isaiah32:19 Hail might strip the forests bare. Cities might be completely destroyed. 
Isaiah32:20 But how blessed you people will be! You will plant your seeds by every stream. You will let your cattle and donkeys wander anywhere they want to. 
Isaiah33:1 How terrible it will be for you, you who destroy others! Assyria, you haven't been destroyed yet. How terrible for you, you who turn against others! Others haven't turned against you yet. When you stop destroying, you will be destroyed. When you stop turning against others, others will turn against you." 
Isaiah33:2 Lord, show us your favor. We long for you to help us. Make us strong every morning. Save us when we're in trouble." 
Isaiah33:3 When the nations hear you thunder, they run away. When you rise up against them, they scatter." 
Isaiah33:4 Nations, what you have taken in battle is destroyed. It's as if young locusts had eaten it up. Like large numbers of locusts, people rush to get it." 
Isaiah33:5 The Lord is honored. He lives in heaven. He will fill Zion's people with what is fair and right. 
Isaiah33:6 He will be the firm foundation for their entire lives. He will give them all of the wisdom, knowledge and saving power they will ever need. Respect for the Lord is the key to that treasure." 
Isaiah33:7 Look! Judah's brave men cry out loud in the streets. The messengers who were sent to bring peace sob bitter tears. 
Isaiah33:8 The wide roads are deserted. No one travels on them. Our peace treaty with Assyria is broken. Those who witnessed it are looked down on. No one is respected. 
Isaiah33:9 The land is filled with sadness and wastes away. Lebanon is full of shame and dries up. The rich land of Sharon is like the Arabah Desert. The trees of Bashan and Carmel drop their leaves. 
Isaiah33:10 Now I will take action,"" says the Lord. ""Now I will be honored. Now I will be respected." 
Isaiah33:11 Assyria, your plans and actions are like straw. Your anger is a fire that will destroy you." 
Isaiah33:12 The nations will be burned to ashes. They will be like bushes that are cut down and set on fire. 
Isaiah33:13 You nations far away, listen to what I have done! My people who are near, recognize how powerful I am!" 
Isaiah33:14 The sinners in Zion are terrified. They tremble with fear. They say, 'Who of us can live through the Lord's destroying fire? Who of us can live through the fire that burns forever?'" 
Isaiah33:15 A person must do what is right. He must be honest and tell the truth. He must not get rich by cheating others. His hands must not receive money from those who want special favors. He must not let his ears listen to plans to commit murder. He must close his eyes to even thinking about doing what is evil. 
Isaiah33:16 A person like that will be kept safe. It will be as if he were living on high mountains. It will be as if he were living in a mountain fort. He will have all of the food he needs. And he will never run out of water. 
Isaiah33:17 People of Judah, you will see the king in all of his glory and majesty. You will view his kingdom spreading far and wide." 
Isaiah33:18 You will think about what used to terrify you. You will say to yourself, ""Where is that chief officer of Assyria? Where is the one who forced us to send gifts to his king? Where is the officer in charge of the towers that were used when we were attacked?""" 
Isaiah33:19 You won't see those proud people anymore. They spoke a strange language. None of us could understand it. 
Isaiah33:20 Just look at Zion! It's the city where we celebrate our regular feasts. Turn your eyes toward Jerusalem. It will be a peaceful place to live in. It will be like a tent that will never be moved. Its stakes will never be pulled up. None of its ropes will be broken. 
Isaiah33:21 There the Lord will be our Mighty One. It will be like a place of wide rivers and streams. No boat with oars will travel on them. No mighty ship will sail on them. 
Isaiah33:22 That's because the Lord is our judge. The Lord gives us our law. The Lord is our king. He will save us. 
Isaiah33:23 The ropes on your ship hang loose. The mast isn't very secure. The sail isn't spread out. But the Lord will strike the Assyrians down. Then a large amount of goods will be taken from them and divided up. Even people who are disabled will carry off what was taken. 
Isaiah33:24 No one living in Zion will ever say again, ""I'm sick."" And the sins of those who live there will be forgiven." 
Isaiah34:1 Nations, come near and listen to me! Pay attention to what I'm about to say. Let the earth and everything in it listen. Let the world and everything that comes out of it pay attention." 
Isaiah34:2 The Lord is angry with all of the nations. His anger burns against all of their armies. He will totally destroy them. He will have them killed. 
Isaiah34:3 Those who are killed won't be buried. Their dead bodies will be thrown on the ground. They will give off a very bad smell. Their blood will cover the mountains. 
Isaiah34:4 All of the stars in the heavens will vanish. The sky will be rolled up like a scroll. All of the stars in the sky will fall like dried-up leaves from a vine. They will drop like wrinkled figs from a fig tree. 
Isaiah34:5 The sword of the Lord will finish its deadly work in the sky. Then it will come down to strike Edom. He will totally destroy that nation. 
Isaiah34:6 His sword will be red with blood. It will be covered with fat. The blood will flow like the blood of lambs and goats being sacrificed. The fat will be like the fat taken from the kidneys of rams. That's because the Lord will offer a sacrifice in the city of Bozrah. He will kill many people in Edom. 
Isaiah34:7 The people and their leaders will be killed like wild oxen and young bulls. Their land will be wet with their blood. The dust will be covered with their fat. 
Isaiah34:8 That's because the Lord has set aside a day to pay Edom back. He has set aside a year to pay them back for what they did to the city of Zion. 
Isaiah34:9 The streams of Edom will be turned into tar. Its dust will be turned into blazing sulfur. Its land will become burning tar. 
Isaiah34:10 The fire will keep burning night and day. It can't be put out. Its smoke will go up forever. Edom will lie empty for all time to come. No one will ever travel through it again. 
Isaiah34:11 The desert owl and screech owl will make it their home. The great owl and the raven will build their nests there. God will use his measuring line to show how completely Edom will be destroyed. He will use his plumb line to show how empty Edom will become. 
Isaiah34:12 Edom's nobles won't have anything left there that can be called a kingdom. All of its princes will vanish. 
Isaiah34:13 Thorns will cover its forts. Bushes and weeds will cover its safest places. It will become a home for wild dogs. It will become a place where owls live. 
Isaiah34:14 Desert creatures will meet with hyenas. Wild goats will call out to each other. Night creatures will also sleep there. They will find places where they can rest. 
Isaiah34:15 Owls will make their nests and lay their eggs there. And they will hatch them. They will take care of their little ones under the shadow of their wings. Male and female falcons will also gather there. 
Isaiah34:16 Look in the scroll of the Lord. There you will read that none of those animals will be missing. Male and female alike will be there. The Lord himself has commanded it. And his Spirit will gather them together. 
Isaiah34:17 The Lord will decide what part of the land goes to each animal. Then he will give each one its share. It will belong to them forever. And they will live there for all time to come. 
Isaiah35:1 The desert and the dry ground will be glad. The dry places will be full of joy. Flowers will grow there. Like the first crocus in the spring," 
Isaiah35:2 the desert will bloom with flowers. It will be very glad and shout with joy. The glorious beauty of Lebanon will be given to it. It will be as beautiful as the rich lands of Carmel and Sharon. Everyone will see the glory of the Lord. They will see the beauty of our God. 
Isaiah35:3 Strengthen the hands of those who are weak. Help those whose knees give way. 
Isaiah35:4 Say to those whose hearts are afraid, ""Be strong. Do not fear. Your God will come. He will pay your enemies back. He will come to save you.""" 
Isaiah35:5 Then the eyes of those who are blind will be opened. The ears of those who can't hear will be unplugged. 
Isaiah35:6 Those who can't walk will leap like a deer. And those who can't speak will shout with joy. Water will pour out in dry places. Streams will flow in the desert. 
Isaiah35:7 The burning sand will become a pool of water. The thirsty ground will become bubbling springs. In the places where wild dogs once lay down, tall grass and papyrus will grow." 
Isaiah35:8 A wide road will go through the land. It will be called The Way of Holiness. Only those who are pure and clean can travel on it. Only those who lead a holy life can use it. Evil and foolish people can't walk on it. 
Isaiah35:9 No lions will use it. No wild animals will be on it. None of them will be there. Only people who have been set free will walk on it. 
Isaiah35:10 Those the Lord has saved will return to their land. They will sing as they enter the city of Zion. Joy that lasts forever will be like beautiful crowns on their heads. They will be filled with gladness and joy. Sorrow and sighing will be gone. 
Isaiah36:1 Sennacherib attacked and captured all of the cities of Judah that had high walls around them. It was in the 14th year of the rule of Hezekiah. Sennacherib was king of Assyria. 
Isaiah36:2 He sent his field commander from Lachish to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem. He sent him along with a large army. The commander stopped at the channel that brings water from the Upper Pool. It was on the road to the Washerman's Field. 
Isaiah36:3 Eliakim, Shebna and Joah went out to him. Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, was in charge of the palace. Shebna was the secretary. Joah, the son of Asaph, kept the records." 
Isaiah36:4 The field commander said to them, ""Give Hezekiah this message. Tell him, "" 'Sennacherib is the great king of Assyria. He says, ""Why are you putting your faith in what your king says?" 
Isaiah36:5 You say you have a military plan. You say you have a strong army. But your words don't mean anything. Who are you depending on? Why don't you want to stay under my control? 
Isaiah36:6  ' You are depending on Egypt. Why are you doing that? Egypt is nothing but a broken papyrus stem. Try leaning on it. It will only cut your hand. Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, is just like that to everyone who depends on him." 
Isaiah36:7  ' Suppose you say to me, 'We are depending on the Lord our God.' Didn't Hezekiah remove your god's high places and altars? Didn't Hezekiah say to the people of Judah and Jerusalem, 'You must worship at the altar in Jerusalem'?" 
Isaiah36:8  ' Come on. Make a deal with my master, the king of Assyria. I'll give you 2,000 horses. But only if you can put riders on them!" 
Isaiah36:9 You are depending on Egypt for chariots and horsemen. You can't drive away even the least important officer among my master's officials. 
Isaiah36:10  ' Besides, do you think I've come without being sent by the Lord? Have I come to attack and destroy this land without receiving a message from him? The Lord himself told me to march out against your country. He told me to destroy it."" ' """ 
Isaiah36:11 Then Eliakim, Shebna and Joah spoke to the field commander. They said, ""Please speak to us in the Aramaic language. We understand it. Don't speak to us in Hebrew. If you do, the people who are on the wall will be able to understand you.""" 
Isaiah36:12 But the commander replied, ""My master sent me to say these things. Are these words only for your master and you to hear? Aren't they also for the men who are sitting on the wall? They are going to suffer just like you. They'll have to eat their own waste. They'll have to drink their own urine.""" 
Isaiah36:13 Then the commander stood up and spoke in the Hebrew language. He called out, ""Pay attention to what the great king of Assyria is telling you." 
Isaiah36:14 He says, 'Don't let Hezekiah trick you. He can't save you!" 
Isaiah36:15 Don't let Hezekiah talk you into trusting in the Lord. Don't believe him when he says, ""You can be sure that the Lord will save us. This city will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."" '" 
Isaiah36:16 Don't listen to Hezekiah. The king of Assyria says, 'Make a peace treaty with me. Come over to my side. Then every one of you will eat fruit from your own vine and fig tree. Every one of you will drink water from your own well." 
Isaiah36:17 You will do that until I come back. Then I'll take you to a land that is just like yours. It's a land that has a lot of grain and fresh wine. It has plenty of bread and vineyards. 
Isaiah36:18  'Don't let Hezekiah fool you. He's telling you a lie when he says, ""The Lord will save us."" Has the god of any nation ever saved his land from the powerful hand of the king of Assyria?" 
Isaiah36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they saved Samaria from my power? 
Isaiah36:20 Which one of all of the gods of those countries has been able to save his land from me? So how can the Lord save Jerusalem from my power?' 
Isaiah36:21 But the people remained silent. They didn't say anything. That's because King Hezekiah had commanded, ""Don't answer him.""" 
Isaiah36:22 Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, went to Hezekiah. Eliakim was in charge of the palace. The secretary Shebna went with him. So did Joah, the son of Asaph. Joah kept the records. All of them went to Hezekiah with their clothes torn. They told him what the field commander had said." 
Isaiah37:1 When King Hezekiah heard what the field commander had said, he tore his clothes. He put on black clothes. Then he went into the Lord's temple." 
Isaiah37:2 Hezekiah sent Eliakim, who was in charge of the palace, to me. He also sent the leading priests and the secretary Shebna to me. All of them were wearing black clothes." 
Isaiah37:3 They told me, ""Hezekiah says, 'Today we're in great trouble. The Lord is warning us. He's bringing shame on us. Sometimes babies come to the moment when they should be born. But their mothers aren't strong enough to allow them to be born. Today we are like those mothers. We aren't strong enough to save ourselves." 
Isaiah37:4  'Perhaps the Lord your God will hear everything the field commander has said. His master, the king of Assyria, has sent him to make fun of the living God. Maybe the Lord your God will punish him for what he has heard him say. So pray for the remaining people who are still alive here.' """ 
Isaiah37:5 King Hezekiah's officials came to me. 
Isaiah37:6 Then I said to them, ""Tell your master, 'The Lord says, ""Do not be afraid of what you have heard. The officers who are under the king of Assyria have spoken evil things against me." 
Isaiah37:7 Listen! I will send him news from his own country. It will upset him so much that he will return home. There I will have him cut down with a sword. ' 
Isaiah37:8 The field commander heard that the king of Assyria had left Lachish. So the commander pulled his troops back from Jerusalem. He went to join the king. He found out that the king was fighting against Libnah. 
Isaiah37:9 During that time Sennacherib received a report. He was told that Tirhakah was marching out to fight against him. Tirhakah was king of Egypt. He was from the land of Cush. When Sennacherib heard the report, he sent messengers again to Hezekiah with a letter. It said," 
Isaiah37:10 Tell Hezekiah, the king of Judah, 'Don't let the god you depend on trick you. He says, ""Jerusalem will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."" But don't believe him." 
Isaiah37:11 I'm sure you have heard about what the kings of Assyria have done to all of the other countries. They have destroyed them completely. So do you think you will be saved? 
Isaiah37:12  'The kings who ruled before me destroyed many nations. Did the gods of those nations save them? Did the gods of Gozan, Haran or Rezeph save them? What about the gods of the people of Eden who were in Tel Assar?" 
Isaiah37:13 Where is the king of Hamath? Where is the king of Arpad? Where is the king of the city of Sepharvaim? Where are the kings of Hena or Ivvah?' 
Isaiah37:14 When Hezekiah received the letter from the messengers, he read it. Then he went up to the Lord's temple. There he spread the letter out in front of the Lord." 
Isaiah37:15 Hezekiah prayed to the Lord. He said," 
Isaiah37:16 Lord who rules over all, you are the God of Israel. You sit on your throne between the cherubim. You alone are God over all of the kingdoms on earth. You have made heaven and earth." 
Isaiah37:17 Listen, Lord. Hear us. Open your eyes, Lord. Look at the trouble we're in. Listen to what Sennacherib is saying. You are the living God. And he dares to make fun of you!" 
Isaiah37:18 Lord, it's true that the kings of Assyria have completely destroyed many nations and their lands." 
Isaiah37:19 They have thrown the statues of the gods of those nations into the fire. And they have destroyed them. That's because they weren't really gods at all. They were nothing but statues that were made out of wood and stone. They were made by human hands. 
Isaiah37:20 Lord our God, save us from the powerful hand of Sennacherib. Then all of the kingdoms on earth will know that you alone are God.""" 
Isaiah37:21 I sent a message to Hezekiah. I said, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, 'You have prayed to me about Sennacherib, the king of Assyria." 
Isaiah37:22 So here is the message I have spoken against him. I am telling him, "" ' ""You will not win the battle over Zion. Its people hate you and make fun of you. The people of Jerusalem lift up their heads proudly as you run away." 
Isaiah37:23 Who have you laughed at? Who have you spoken evil things against? Who have you raised your voice against? Who have you looked at so proudly? You have done it against me. I am the Holy One of Israel! 
Isaiah37:24 Through your messengers you have laughed at me again and again. And you have said, 'I have many chariots. With them I have climbed to the tops of the mountains. I've climbed the highest mountains in Lebanon. I've cut down its tallest cedar trees. I've cut down the best of its pine trees. I've reached its farthest mountains. I've reached its finest forests." 
Isaiah37:25 I've dug wells in strange lands. I've drunk the water from them. I've walked through all of Egypt's streams. I've dried up every one of them.' 
Isaiah37:26  ' But I, the Lord, say, 'Haven't you heard what I have done? Long ago I arranged for you to do all of that. In days of old I planned it. Now I have made it happen. You have turned cities with high walls into piles of stone." 
Isaiah37:27 Their people do not have any power left. They are troubled and put to shame. They are like plants in the field. They are like new green plants. They are like grass that grows on a roof. It dries up before it is completely grown. 
Isaiah37:28  '  'But I know where you live. I know when you come and go. I know how very angry you are with me. 
Isaiah37:29 You roar against me and brag. And I have heard your bragging. So I will put my hook in your nose. I will put my bit in your mouth. And I will make you go home by the same way you came.'  ' 
Isaiah37:30 The Lord said, ""Hezekiah, here is a miraculous sign for you. ""This year you will eat what grows by itself. Next year you will eat what grows from that. But in the third year you will plant your crops and gather them in. You will plant your grapevines and eat their fruit." 
Isaiah37:31 The people of Judah who are still alive will be like plants. Once more they will put down roots and produce fruit. 
Isaiah37:32 Out of Jerusalem will come those who remain. Out of Mount Zion will come those who are still left alive. My great love will make sure that happens. I rule over all. 
Isaiah37:33 Here is a message from me about the king of Assyria. It says, "" 'He will not enter this city. He will not even shoot an arrow at it. He will not come near it with a shield. He will not build a ramp in order to climb over its walls." 
Isaiah37:34 By the way that he came he will go home. He will not enter this city,' announces the Lord." 
Isaiah37:35 I will guard this city and save it. I will do it for myself. And I will do it for my servant David. 
Isaiah37:36 Then the angel of the Lord went into the camp of the Assyrians. He put to death 185,000 soldiers there. The people of Jerusalem got up the next morning. They looked out and saw all of the dead bodies." 
Isaiah37:37 So Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, took the army tents down. Then he left. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there." 
Isaiah37:38 One day Sennacherib was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisroch. His sons Adrammelech and Sharezer cut him down with their swords. Then they escaped to the land of Ararat. Esarhaddon became the next king after his father Sennacherib. 
Isaiah38:1 In those days Hezekiah became very sick. He knew he was about to die. I went to see him. I told him, ""The Lord says, 'Put everything in order. Make out your will. You are going to die soon. You will not get well again.' """ 
Isaiah38:2 Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall. He prayed to the Lord. He said," 
Isaiah38:3 Lord, please remember how faithful I've been to you. I've lived the way you wanted me to. I've served you with all my heart. I've done what is good in your sight."" And Hezekiah cried bitterly." 
Isaiah38:4 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Isaiah38:5 Go and speak to Hezekiah. Tell him, 'The Lord, the God of King David, says, ""I have heard your prayer. I have seen your tears. I will add 15 years to your life." 
Isaiah38:6 And I will save you and this city from the powerful hand of the king of Assyria. I will guard this city. 
Isaiah38:7  ' Here is a miraculous sign from me. It will show you that I will heal you, just as I promised I would." 
Isaiah38:8 The shadow that was made by the sun has gone down ten steps on the stairway of Ahaz. I will make it go back up those ten steps. '  So the shadow went back up the ten steps it had gone down. 
Isaiah38:9 Here is a song of praise that was written by Hezekiah, the king of Judah. He wrote it after he was sick and had gotten well again." 
Isaiah38:10 I said, ""I'm enjoying the best years of my life. Must I now go through the gates of death? Will the rest of my years be taken away from me?""" 
Isaiah38:11 I said, ""Lord, I'll never see you again while I'm still alive. I'll never see people anymore. I'll never again be with those who live in this world." 
Isaiah38:12 My body is like a shepherd's tent. It has been pulled down and carried off. My life is like a piece of cloth that I've rolled up. You have cut it off from the loom. In a short period of time you have brought my life to an end. 
Isaiah38:13 I waited patiently until sunrise. But like a lion you broke all of my bones. In a short period of time you have brought my life to an end. 
Isaiah38:14 I cried softly like a weak little bird. I groaned like a sad dove. My eyes grew tired as I looked up toward heaven. Lord, I'm in trouble. Please come and help me!" 
Isaiah38:15 But what can I say? You have promised to heal me. And you yourself have done it. Once I was proud and bitter. But now I will live the rest of my life free of pride. 
Isaiah38:16 Lord, people find the will to live because you keep your promises. And my spirit also finds life in your promises. You brought me back to health. You let me live." 
Isaiah38:17 I'm sure it was for my benefit that I suffered such great pain. You love me. You kept me from going down into the pit of death. You have put all of my sins behind your back. 
Isaiah38:18 People in the grave can't praise you. Dead people can't sing praise to you. Those who go down to the grave can't hope for you to be faithful to them. 
Isaiah38:19 It is those who are alive who praise you. And that's what I'm doing today. Fathers tell their children about how faithful you are. 
Isaiah38:20 You will save me. So we will sing and play music on stringed instruments. We will sing all the days of our lives in your temple. 
Isaiah38:21 When Hezekiah was sick, I had said, ""Press some figs together. Spread them on a piece of cloth. Apply them to Hezekiah's boil. Then he'll get well again.""" 
Isaiah38:22 At that time Hezekiah had asked me, ""What will the miraculous sign be to prove I'll go up to the Lord's temple?"" That's when the Lord had made the shadow go back ten steps." 
Isaiah39:1 At that time Merodach-Baladan, the king of Babylonia, sent Hezekiah letters and a gift. He had heard that Hezekiah had been sick but had gotten well again. Merodach-Baladan was the son of Baladan." 
Isaiah39:2 Hezekiah gladly received the messengers. He showed them what was in his storerooms. He showed them the silver and gold. He took them to where the spices and the fine olive oil were kept. He showed them where he kept all of his weapons. And he showed them all of his treasures. In fact, he showed them everything that was in his palace and in his whole kingdom." 
Isaiah39:3 Then I went to King Hezekiah. I asked him, ""What did those men say? Where did they come from?"" ""They came from a land far away,"" Hezekiah said. ""They came to me from Babylon.""" 
Isaiah39:4 I asked, ""What did they see in your palace?"" ""They saw everything in my palace,"" Hezekiah said. ""I showed them all of my treasures.""" 
Isaiah39:5 Then I said to Hezekiah, ""Listen to the message of the Lord who rules over all. He says," 
Isaiah39:6 'You can be sure the time will come when everything in your palace will be carried off to Babylon. Everything the kings before you have stored up until this day will be taken away. There will not be anything left,' says the Lord." 
Isaiah39:7  'Some of the members of your family line will be taken away. They will be your own flesh and blood. They will include the children who will be born into your family line in years to come. And they will serve the king of Babylonia in his palace.' 
Isaiah39:8 The message the Lord has spoken through you is good,"" Hezekiah replied. He thought, ""There will be peace and safety while I'm still living.""" 
Isaiah40:1 Comfort my people,"" says your God. ""Comfort them." 
Isaiah40:2 Speak tenderly to the people of Jerusalem. Announce to them that their hard service has been completed. Tell them that their sin has been paid for. Tell them I have punished them enough for all of their sins. 
Isaiah40:3 A messenger is calling out, ""In the desert prepare the way for the Lord. Make a straight road through it for our God." 
Isaiah40:4 Every valley will be filled in. Every mountain and hill will be made level. The rough ground will be smoothed out. The rocky places will be made flat. 
Isaiah40:5 Then the glory of the Lord will appear. And everyone will see it. The Lord has spoken. 
Isaiah40:6 Another messenger says, ""Cry out."" And I said, ""What should I cry?"" ""Cry out, 'All people are like grass. They don't last any longer than flowers in the field." 
Isaiah40:7 The grass dries up. The flowers fall to the ground. That happens when the Lord makes his wind blow on them. So people are just like grass. 
Isaiah40:8 The grass dries up. The flowers fall to the ground. But what our God says will stand forever.' 
Isaiah40:9 Zion, you are bringing good news to your people. Go up on a high mountain and announce it. Jerusalem, you are bringing good news to them. Shout the message loudly. Shout it out loud. Don't be afraid. Say to the towns of Judah, ""Your God is coming!""" 
Isaiah40:10 The Lord and King is coming with power. His powerful arm will rule for him. He has set his people free. He is bringing them back as his reward. He has won the battle over their enemies. 
Isaiah40:11 He takes care of his flock like a shepherd. He gathers the lambs in his arms. He carries them close to his heart. He gently leads those that have little ones. 
Isaiah40:12 Who has measured the oceans by using the palm of his hand? Who has used the width of his hand to mark off the sky? Who has measured out the dust of the earth in a basket? Who has weighed the mountains on scales? Who has weighed the hills in a balance? 
Isaiah40:13 Who can ever understand what is in the Lord's mind? Who can ever give him advice? 
Isaiah40:14 Did the Lord have to ask anyone to help him understand? Did he have to ask someone to teach him the right way? Who taught him what he knows? Who showed him how to understand? 
Isaiah40:15 The nations are only a drop in a bucket to him. He considers them as nothing but dust on the scales. He weighs the islands as if they were only fine dust. 
Isaiah40:16 Lebanon doesn't have enough trees to keep his altar fires burning. It doesn't have enough animals to sacrifice as burnt offerings to him. 
Isaiah40:17 To him, all of the nations don't amount to anything. He considers them to be worthless. In fact, they are less than nothing in his sight." 
Isaiah40:18 So who will you compare God to? Is there any other god like him? 
Isaiah40:19 Will you compare him to a statue of a god? Any skilled worker can make a statue. Then another worker covers it with gold and makes silver chains for it. 
Isaiah40:20 But someone who is too poor to bring that kind of offering will choose some wood that won't rot. Then he looks for a skilled worker. He pays the worker to make a statue of a god that won't fall over. 
Isaiah40:21 Don't you know who made everything? Haven't you heard about him? Hasn't it been told to you from the beginning? Haven't you understood it ever since the earth was made? 
Isaiah40:22 God sits on his throne high above the earth. Its people look like grasshoppers to him. He spreads the heavens out like a cover. He sets it up like a tent to live in. 
Isaiah40:23 He takes the power of princes away from them. He reduces the rulers of this world to nothing. 
Isaiah40:24 They are planted. They are scattered like seeds. They put down roots in the ground. But as soon as that happens, God blows on them and they dry up. Then a windstorm sweeps them away like straw." 
Isaiah40:25 So who will you compare me to? Who is equal to me? says the Holy One. 
Isaiah40:26 Look up toward the sky. Who created everything you see? The Lord causes the stars to come out at night one by one. He gives each one of them a name. His power and strength are great. So none of the stars is missing. 
Isaiah40:27 Family of Jacob, why do you say, ""The Lord doesn't notice our condition""? People of Israel, why do you say, ""Our God doesn't pay any attention to our rightful claims""?" 
Isaiah40:28 Don't you know who made everything? Haven't you heard about him? The Lord is the God who lives forever. He created everything on earth. He won't become worn out or get tired. No one will ever know how great his understanding is. 
Isaiah40:29 He gives strength to those who are tired. He gives power to those who are weak. 
Isaiah40:30 Even young people become worn out and get tired. Even the best of them trip and fall. 
Isaiah40:31 But those who trust in the Lord will receive new strength. They will fly as high as eagles. They will run and not get tired. They will walk and not grow weak. 
Isaiah41:1 The Lord says, ""People who live on the islands, come and stand quietly in front of me. Let the nations gain new strength in order to state their case. Let them come forward and speak. Let us go to court and find out who is right." 
Isaiah41:2 Who has stirred up a king from the east? Who has helped him win his battles? I hand nations over to him. I bring kings under his control. He turns them into dust with his sword. With his bow he turns them into straw blowing in the wind. 
Isaiah41:3 He hunts them down. Then he moves on unharmed. He travels so fast that his feet don't seem to touch the ground. 
Isaiah41:4 Who has made that happen? Who has carried it out? Who has created all of the people who have ever lived? I, the Lord, have done it. I was with the first of them. And I will be with the last of them.""" 
Isaiah41:5 The people on the islands have seen that king coming. And it has made them afraid. People tremble with fear from one end of the earth to the other. They come and gather together. 
Isaiah41:6 They help each other. They say to one another, ""Be strong!""" 
Isaiah41:7 One skilled worker makes a statue of a god. Another covers it with gold. The first worker says to the second, ""You have done a good job."" Another worker smooths out the metal with a hammer. Still another gives the statue its final shape. The third worker says to the last one, ""You have done a good job."" Then they nail the statue down so it won't fall over." 
Isaiah41:8 The Lord says, ""People of Israel, you are my servants. Family of Jacob, I have chosen you. You are the children of my friend Abraham." 
Isaiah41:9 I gathered you from one end of the earth to the other. From the farthest places on earth I brought you together. I said, 'You are my servants.' I have chosen you. I have not turned my back on you." 
Isaiah41:10 So do not be afraid. I am with you. Do not be terrified. I am your God. I will make you strong and help you. My powerful right hand will take good care of you. I always do what is right. 
Isaiah41:11 All those who are angry with you will be put to shame. And they will be dishonored. Those who oppose you will be destroyed. And they will vanish. 
Isaiah41:12 You might search for your enemies. But you will not find them. Those who go to war against you will completely disappear. 
Isaiah41:13 I am the Lord your God. I take hold of your right hand. I say to you, 'Do not be afraid. I will help you.'" 
Isaiah41:14 Family of Jacob, you are as weak as a worm. But do not be afraid. People of Israel, there are only a few of you. But do not be afraid. I myself will help you,"" announces the Lord. He is the one who sets his people free. He is the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah41:15 He says, ""I will make you into a threshing sled. It will be new and sharp. It will have many teeth. You will grind the mountains down and crush them. You will turn the hills into nothing but straw." 
Isaiah41:16 You will toss them in the air. A strong wind will catch them and blow them away. You will be glad because I will make that happen. You will praise me. I am the Holy One of Israel. 
Isaiah41:17 Those who are poor and needy search for water. But there isn't any. Their tongues are dry because they are thirsty. But I will help them. I am the Lord. I will not desert them. I am Israel's God. 
Isaiah41:18 I will make streams flow on the bare hilltops. I will make springs come up in the valleys. I will turn the desert into pools of water. I will turn the dry and cracked ground into flowing springs. 
Isaiah41:19 I will make trees grow in the desert. I will plant cedar and acacia trees there. I will plant myrtle and olive trees there. I will make pine trees grow in the dry and empty desert. I will plant fir and cypress trees there. 
Isaiah41:20 Then people will see and know that my powerful hand has done it. They will consider and understand that I have created it. I am the Holy One of Israel. 
Isaiah41:21 The Lord says to the nations and their gods, ""State your case."" Jacob's King says to them, ""Prove your case to me." 
Isaiah41:22 Show me your facts. Tell me and my people what is going to happen. Tell us what happened in the past. Then we can check it out and see if it is really true. Or announce to us the things that will take place. 
Isaiah41:23 Tell us what will happen in the days ahead. Then we will know that you are gods. Do something. It does not matter whether it is good or bad. Then we will be terrified and filled with fear. 
Isaiah41:24 But you are less than nothing. Your actions are completely worthless. I hate it when people worship you. 
Isaiah41:25 I have stirred up a king who will come from the north. He lives in the east. He will bring honor to me. He walks all over rulers as if they were mud. He steps on them just as a potter stomps on clay. 
Isaiah41:26 Which one of you gods said those things would happen before they did? Who told us about them so we could know them? Who told us ahead of time? Who told us so we could say, 'You are right'? None of you told us about them. None of you told us ahead of time. In fact, no one heard you say anything at all." 
Isaiah41:27 I was the first to tell Zion. I said, 'Look! The people of Israel are coming back!' I sent a prophet to Jerusalem with the good news." 
Isaiah41:28 I look, but there is no one among the gods that can give me advice. None of them can answer when I ask them the simplest question." 
Isaiah41:29 So they are not really gods at all. What they do does not amount to anything. They are as useless as wind. 
Isaiah42:1 Here is my servant. I take good care of him. I have chosen him. I am very pleased with him. I will put my Spirit on him. He will make everything right among the nations. 
Isaiah42:2 He will not shout or cry out. He will not raise his voice in the streets. 
Isaiah42:3 He will not break a bent twig. He will not put out a dimly burning flame. He will be faithful and make everything right. 
Isaiah42:4 He will not grow weak or lose hope. He will not give up until he makes everything right on the earth. The islands will put their hope in his law. 
Isaiah42:5 God created the heavens and spread them out. The Lord made the earth and everything that grows on it. He gives breath to its people. He gives life to those who walk on it. He says to his servant," 
Isaiah42:6 I, the Lord, have chosen you to do what is right. I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you safe. You will put my covenant with the people of Israel into effect. And you will be a light for the other nations." 
Isaiah42:7 You will open eyes that can't see. You will set prisoners free. Those who sit in darkness will come out of their cells. 
Isaiah42:8 I am the Lord. That is my name! I will not let any other god share my glory. I will not let statues of gods share my praise. 
Isaiah42:9 What I said would happen has taken place. Now I announce new things to you. Before they even begin to happen, I announce them to you.""" 
Isaiah42:10 Sing a new song to the Lord. Sing praise to him from one end of the earth to the other. Sing, you who sail out on the ocean. Sing, all of you creatures in it. Sing, you islands. Sing, all of you who live there." 
Isaiah42:11 Let the desert and its towns raise their voices. Let those who live in the settlements of Kedar be glad. Let the people of Sela sing with joy. Let them shout from the tops of the mountains. 
Isaiah42:12 Let them give glory to the Lord. Let them praise him in the islands. 
Isaiah42:13 The Lord will march out like a mighty warrior. He will stir up his anger like a soldier getting ready to fight. He will shout the battle cry. And he will win the battle over his enemies. 
Isaiah42:14 The Lord says, ""For a long time I have kept silent. I have been calm and quiet. But now, like a woman having a baby, I cry out. I am struggling to breathe." 
Isaiah42:15 I will completely destroy the mountains and hills. I will dry up everything that grows there. I will turn rivers into dry land. I will dry up the pools. 
Isaiah42:16 Israel is blind. So I will lead them along paths they had not known before. I will guide them on roads they are not familiar with. I will turn the darkness into light as they travel. I will make the rough places smooth. Those are the things I will do. I will not desert my people. 
Isaiah42:17 Some people trust in statues of gods. They say to them, 'You are our gods.' But they will be dishonored. They will be put to shame." 
Isaiah42:18 Israel, listen to me! You can hear, but you do not understand. Look to me! You can see, but you do not know what you are seeing." 
Isaiah42:19 The people of Israel serve me. But who is more blind than they are? Who is more deaf than the messengers I send? Who is more blind than those who have committed themselves to be faithful to me? Who is more blind than my servants? 
Isaiah42:20 Israel, you have seen many things. But you have not paid any attention to me. Your ears are open. But you do not hear anything I say.""" 
Isaiah42:21 The Lord wanted his people to see how great and glorious his law is. He wanted to show them that he always does what is right. 
Isaiah42:22 Enemies have carried off everything they own. All of my people are trapped in pits or hidden away in prisons. They themselves have become like stolen goods. No one can save them. They have been carried off. And there is no one who will say, ""Send them back.""" 
Isaiah42:23 Family of Jacob, who among you will listen to what I'm saying? People of Israel, which one of you will pay close attention in days to come?" 
Isaiah42:24 Who allowed you to be carried off like stolen goods? Who handed you over to robbers? The Lord did it! We have sinned against him. Israel, you wouldn't follow his ways. You didn't obey his law." 
Isaiah42:25 So he poured his burning anger out on you. He had many of you killed off in battle. You were surrounded by flames. But you didn't realize what was happening. Many of you were destroyed. But you didn't learn anything from it. 
Isaiah43:1 Family of Jacob, the Lord created you. People of Israel, he formed you. He says, ""Do not be afraid. I will set you free. I will send for you by name. You belong to me." 
Isaiah43:2 You will pass through deep waters. But I will be with you. You will pass through the rivers. But their waters will not sweep over you. You will walk through fire. But you will not be burned. The flames will not harm you. 
Isaiah43:3 I am the Lord your God. I am the Holy One of Israel. I am the one who saves you. I will give up Egypt to set you free. I will give up Cush and Seba for you. 
Isaiah43:4 You are priceless to me. I love you and honor you. So I will trade other people for you. I will give up other nations to save your lives. 
Isaiah43:5 Do not be afraid. I am with you. I will bring your people back from the east. I will gather you from the west. 
Isaiah43:6 I will say to the north, 'Let them go!' And I will say to the south, 'Do not hold them back.' Bring my sons from far away. Bring my daughters from the farthest places on earth." 
Isaiah43:7 Bring back everyone who belongs to me. I created them to bring glory to me. I formed them and made them. 
Isaiah43:8 Lead my people into court. They have eyes but can't see. Bring those who have ears but can't hear. 
Isaiah43:9 All of the nations are gathering together. All of them are coming. Which one of their gods said ahead of time that the people of Israel would return? Which of them told us anything at all about the past? Let them bring in their witnesses to prove they were right. Then others will hear them. And they will say, ""What they said is true.""" 
Isaiah43:10 People of Israel, you are my witnesses,"" announces the Lord. ""I have chosen you to be my servants. I wanted you to know me and believe in me. I wanted you to understand that I am the one and only God. Before me, there was no other god at all. And there will not be any god after me." 
Isaiah43:11 I am the one and only Lord. I am the only one who can save you. 
Isaiah43:12 I have made known what would happen. I told you about it. And I saved you. I did it. It was not some other god you worship. You are my witnesses that I am God,"" announces the Lord." 
Isaiah43:13 And that is not all! I have always been God, and I always will be. No one can save people from my powerful hand. When I do something, who can undo it?""" 
Isaiah43:14 The Lord sets his people free. He is the Holy One of Israel. He says, ""People of Israel, I will send an army to Babylon to save you. I will cause all of the Babylonians to run away. They will try to escape in the ships they were so proud of." 
Isaiah43:15 I am your Lord and King. I am your Holy One. I created you. 
Isaiah43:16 Long ago the Lord opened a way for his people to go through the Red Sea. He made a path through the mighty waters. 
Isaiah43:17 He caused Egypt to send out its chariots and horses. He sent its entire army to its death. Its soldiers lay down there. They never got up again. They were destroyed. They were blown out like a dimly burning flame. But the Lord says," 
Isaiah43:18 Forget the things that happened in the past. Do not keep on thinking about them. 
Isaiah43:19 I am about to do something new. It is beginning to happen even now. Don't you see it coming? I am going to make a way for you to go through the desert. I will make streams of water in the dry and empty land. 
Isaiah43:20 Even wild dogs and owls honor me. That is because I provide water in the desert for my people to drink. I cause streams to flow in the dry and empty land for my chosen ones. 
Isaiah43:21 I do it for the people I made for myself. I want them to sing praise to me. 
Isaiah43:22 Family of Jacob, you have not prayed to me as you should. People of Israel, you have not even begun to get tired while doing it." 
Isaiah43:23 You have not brought me sheep for burnt offerings. You have not honored me with your sacrifices. I have not loaded you down by requiring grain offerings. I have not made you tired by requiring you to burn incense. 
Isaiah43:24 But you have not bought any sweet-smelling cane for me. You have not given me the fattest parts of your animal sacrifices. Instead, you have loaded me down with your sins. You have made me tired with the wrong things you have done." 
Isaiah43:25 I am the one who wipes out your lawless acts. I do it because of who I am. I will not remember your sins anymore. 
Isaiah43:26 But let us go to court together. Remind me of what you have done. State your case. Prove to me that you are not guilty. 
Isaiah43:27 Your father Jacob sinned. Your priests and prophets refused to obey me. 
Isaiah43:28 So I will put the high officials of your temple to shame. I will let Jacob's family be totally destroyed. And I will let people make fun of Israel. 
Isaiah44:1 Family of Jacob, listen to me. You are my servants. People of Israel, I have chosen you." 
Isaiah44:2 I made you. I formed you when you were born as a nation. I will help you. So listen to what I am saying. Family of Jacob, do not be afraid. You are my servants. People of Israel, I have chosen you." 
Isaiah44:3 I will pour water out on the thirsty land. I will make streams flow on the dry ground. I will pour out my Spirit on your children. I will pour out my blessing on their children after them. 
Isaiah44:4 They will spring up like grass in a meadow. They will grow like poplar trees near flowing streams. 
Isaiah44:5 Some will say, 'We belong to the Lord.' Others will call themselves by Jacob's name. Still others will write on their hands, 'We belong to the Lord.' And they will be called by the name of Israel." 
Isaiah44:6 I am Israel's King. I set them free. I am the Lord who rules over all. So listen to what I am saying. I am the First and the Last. I am the one and only God. 
Isaiah44:7 Who is like me? Let him come forward and speak boldly. Let him tell me everything that has happened since I created my people long ago. And let him tell me what has not happened yet. Let him announce ahead of time what is going to take place. 
Isaiah44:8 Do not tremble with fear. Do not be afraid. Didn't I announce everything that has happened? Didn't I tell you about it long ago? You are my witnesses. Is there any other God but me? No! There is no other Rock. I do not know even one. 
Isaiah44:9 Those who make statues of gods don't amount to anything. And the statues they think so much of are worthless. Those who would speak up for them are blind. They don't know anything. So they will be put to shame. 
Isaiah44:10 People make statues of gods. But those gods can't do them any good. 
Isaiah44:11 People like that will be put to shame. Those who make statues of gods are mere men. Let all of them come together and state their case. They will be terrified and put to shame. 
Isaiah44:12 A blacksmith gets his tool. He uses it to shape metal over the burning coals. He uses his hammers to make a statue of a god. He forms it with his powerful arm. He gets hungry and loses his strength. He doesn't drink any water. He gets weaker and weaker. 
Isaiah44:13 A carpenter measures a piece of wood with a line. He draws a pattern on it with a marker. He cuts out a statue with sharp tools. He marks it with compasses. He shapes it into the form of a handsome man. He does all of that so he can put it in a temple. 
Isaiah44:14 He cuts down a cedar tree. Or perhaps he takes a cypress or an oak tree. It might be a tree that grew in the forest. Or it might be a pine tree he planted. And the rain made it grow. 
Isaiah44:15 Man gets wood from trees for fuel. He uses some of it to warm himself. He starts a fire and bakes bread. But he also uses some of it to make a god and worship it. He makes a statue of a god and bows down to it. 
Isaiah44:16 He burns half of the wood in the fire. He prepares a meal over it. He cooks meat over it. He eats until he is full. He also warms himself. He says, ""Good! I'm getting warm. The fire is nice and hot.""" 
Isaiah44:17 From the rest of the wood he makes a statue. It becomes his god. He bows down and worships it. He prays to it. He says, ""Save me. You are my god.""" 
Isaiah44:18 People like that don't even know what they are doing. Their eyes are shut so that they can't see the truth. Their minds are closed so that they can't understand it. 
Isaiah44:19 No one even stops to think about this. No one has any sense or understanding. If anyone did, he would say, ""I used half of the wood for fuel. I even baked bread over the fire. I cooked meat. Then I ate it. Should I now make a statue of a god out of the wood that's left over? Should I bow down to a block of wood? The Lord would hate that.""" 
Isaiah44:20 That's as foolish as eating ashes! The mind of someone like that has led him down the wrong path. He can't save himself. He can't bring himself to say, ""This thing I'm holding in my right hand isn't really a god at all.""" 
Isaiah44:21 The Lord says, ""Family of Jacob, remember those things. People of Israel, you are my servants. I have made you. You are my servants. Israel, I will not forget you." 
Isaiah44:22 I will sweep your sins away as if they were a cloud. I will blow them away as if they were the morning mist. Return to me. Then I will set you free. 
Isaiah44:23 Sing with joy, you heavens! The Lord does wonderful things. Shout out loud, you earth! Burst into song, you mountains! Sing, you forests and all of your trees! The Lord sets the family of Jacob free. He shows his glory in Israel." 
Isaiah44:24 The Lord says, ""People of Israel, I set you free. I formed you when you were born as a nation. ""I am the Lord. I have made everything. I alone spread out the heavens. I formed the earth by myself." 
Isaiah44:25 Some prophets are not really prophets at all. I show that their miraculous signs are fake. I make those who practice evil magic look foolish. I destroy the learning of those who think they are wise. Their knowledge does not make any sense at all. 
Isaiah44:26 I make the words of my servants the prophets come true. I carry out what my messengers say will happen. I say about Jerusalem, 'My people will live there again.' I say about the towns of Judah, 'They will be rebuilt.' I say about their broken-down buildings, 'I will make them like new again.'" 
Isaiah44:27 I say to the deep waters, 'Dry up. Let your streams become dry.'" 
Isaiah44:28 I say about Cyrus, 'He is my shepherd. He will accomplish everything I want him to. He will say about Jerusalem, ""Let it be rebuilt."" And he will say about the temple, ""Let its foundations be laid."" '" 
Isaiah45:1 Cyrus is my anointed king. I take hold of his right hand. I give him the power to bring nations under his control. I help him strip kings of their power to go to war against him. I break city gates open so he can go through them. I say to him," 
Isaiah45:2 'I will march out ahead of you. I will make the mountains level. I will break down bronze gates. I will cut through their heavy iron bars. 
Isaiah45:3 I will give you treasures that are hidden away in dark places. I will give you riches that are stored up in secret places. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I am the God of Israel. I am sending for you by name. 
Isaiah45:4 Cyrus, I am sending for you by name. I am doing it for the good of the family of Jacob. They are my servants. I am doing it for Israel. They are my chosen people. You do not know anything about me. But I am giving you a title of honor." 
Isaiah45:5 I am the Lord. There is no other Lord. I am the one and only God. You do not know anything about me. But I will make you strong. 
Isaiah45:6 Then people will know there is no God but me. Everyone from where the sun rises in the east to where it sets in the west will know it. I am the Lord. There is no other Lord. 
Isaiah45:7 I cause light to shine. I also create darkness. I bring good times. I also create hard times. I do all of those things. I am the Lord. 
Isaiah45:8  'Rain down godliness, you heavens above. Let the clouds shower it down. Let the earth open wide to receive it. Let freedom spring to life. Let godliness grow along with it. I have created all of those things. I am the Lord.' """ 
Isaiah45:9 How terrible it will be for anyone who argues with his Maker! He is like a broken piece of pottery lying on the ground. Does clay say to a potter, ""What are you making?"" Does a pot say, ""You don't have any skill""?" 
Isaiah45:10 How terrible it will be for anyone who says to his father, ""Why did you give me life?"" How terrible for anyone who says to his mother, ""Why have you brought me into the world?""" 
Isaiah45:11 The Lord is the Holy One of Israel. He made them. He says to them, ""Are you asking me about what will happen to my children? Are you telling me what I should do with what my hands have made?" 
Isaiah45:12 I made the earth. I created man to live there. My own hands spread out the heavens. I put all of the stars in their places. 
Isaiah45:13 I will stir up Cyrus and help him win his battles. I will make all of his roads straight. He will rebuild Jerusalem. My people have been taken away from their country. But he will set them free. I will not pay him to do it. He will not receive a reward for it,"" says the Lord who rules over all." 
Isaiah45:14 The Lord says to the people of Jerusalem, ""You will get everything Egypt produces. You will receive everything the people of Cush and the tall Sabeans get in trade. All of it will belong to you. And all of those people will walk behind you as slaves. They will be put in chains and come over to you. They will bow down to you. They will admit, 'God is with you. There is no other God.' """ 
Isaiah45:15 You are a God who hides yourself. You are the God of Israel. You save us. 
Isaiah45:16 All those who make statues of gods will be put to shame. They will be dishonored. They will be led away in shame together. 
Isaiah45:17 But the Lord will save Israel. He will save them forever. They will never be put to shame or dishonored. That will be true for all time to come. 
Isaiah45:18 The Lord created the heavens. He is God. He formed the earth and made it. He set it firmly in place. He didn't create it to be empty. Instead, he formed it for people to live on. He says, ""I am the Lord. There is no other Lord." 
Isaiah45:19 I have not spoken in secret. I have not spoken from a dark place. I have not said to Jacob's people, 'It is useless to look for me.' I am the Lord. I always speak the truth. I always say what is right." 
Isaiah45:20 Come together, you people of the nations who escaped from Babylonia. Gather together and come into court. Only people who do not know anything would carry around gods that are made out of wood. They pray to gods that can't save them." 
Isaiah45:21 Tell me what will happen. State your case. Talk it over together. Who spoke long ago about what would happen? Who said it a long time ago? I did. I am the Lord. I am the one and only God. I always do what is right. I am the one who saves. There is no God but me. 
Isaiah45:22 All of you who live anywhere on earth, turn to me and be saved. I am God. There is no other God." 
Isaiah45:23 I have made a promise with an oath in my own name. I have spoken with complete honesty. I will not take back a single word. I said, 'Everyone's knee will bow down to me. Everyone's mouth will take an oath in my name.'" 
Isaiah45:24 They will say, 'The Lord always does what is right. Only he can make us strong.' "" All those who have been angry with the Lord will come to him. And they will be put to shame." 
Isaiah45:25 But the Lord will help all of the people of Israel. He will make them right with himself. And they will praise him. 
Isaiah46:1 The gods Bel and Nebo are brought down in shame. The statues of them are being carried away on the backs of animals. They used to be carried around by the people who worshiped them. But now they've become a heavy load for tired animals. 
Isaiah46:2 Bel and Nebo are brought down in shame together. They aren't able to save their own statues. They themselves are carried off as prisoners. 
Isaiah46:3 The Lord says, ""Family of Jacob, listen to me. Pay attention, you people of Israel who are left alive. I have taken good care of you since your life began. I have carried you since you were born as a nation." 
Isaiah46:4 I will continue to carry you even when you are old. I will take good care of you even when your hair is gray. I have made you. And I will carry you. I will take care of you. And I will save you. I am the Lord. 
Isaiah46:5 Who will you compare me to? Who is equal to me? What am I like? Who can you compare me to? 
Isaiah46:6 Some people pour gold out of their bags. They weigh out silver on the scales. They hire someone who works with gold to make it into a god. They bow down to it and worship it. 
Isaiah46:7 They lift it up on their shoulders and carry it. They set it up in its place. And there it stands. It can't move from that spot. Someone might cry out to it. But it does not answer him. It can't save him from his troubles. 
Isaiah46:8 So remember that, you who refuse to obey me. Keep it in your minds and hearts." 
Isaiah46:9 Remember what happened in the past. Think about what took place long ago. I am God. There is no other God. I am God. There is no one like me. 
Isaiah46:10 Before something even happens, I announce how it will end. In fact, from times long ago I announced what was still to come. I say, 'My plan will succeed. I will do anything I want to do.'" 
Isaiah46:11 I will send for a man from the east to carry out my plan. From a land far away, he will come like a bird that eats dead bodies. I will bring about what I have said. I will do what I have planned." 
Isaiah46:12 Listen to me, you stubborn people. Pay attention, you who refuse to do what is right." 
Isaiah46:13 The time is almost here for me to make everything right. It is not far away. The time for me to save you will not be put off. I will save the city of Zion. I will bring honor to Israel. 
Isaiah47:1 City of Babylon, go down and sit in the dust. Leave your throne and sit on the ground. City of the Babylonians, your life will not be comfortable and easy anymore." 
Isaiah47:2 Get millstones and grind some flour like a female slave. Take your veil off. Lift your skirts up. Make your legs bare. Wade through the streams. 
Isaiah47:3 Everyone will see your naked body. Everyone will see your shame. I will pay you back for what you did. I will not spare any of your people. 
Isaiah47:4 The one who sets us free is the Holy One of Israel. His name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. 
Isaiah47:5 The Lord says, ""City of the Babylonians, go into a dark prison and sit there quietly. You will not be called the queen of kingdoms anymore." 
Isaiah47:6 I was angry with my people. I treated them as if they did not belong to me. I handed them over to you. And you did not show them any pity. You even placed heavy loads on their old people. 
Isaiah47:7 You said, 'I will continue to be queen forever!' But you did not think about what you were doing. You did not consider how things might turn out." 
Isaiah47:8 So listen, you who love pleasure. You think you are safe and secure. You say to yourself, 'I am like a god. No one is greater than I am. I'll never be a widow. And my children will never be taken away from me.'" 
Isaiah47:9 But both of those things will happen to you in a moment. They will take place on a single day. You will lose your children. And you will become a widow. That is what will happen to you. All of your evil magic and powerful spells will not save you. 
Isaiah47:10 You have felt secure in your evil ways. You have said, 'No one sees what I'm doing.' Your wisdom and knowledge lead you down the wrong path. You say to yourself, 'I am like a god. No one is greater than I am.'" 
Isaiah47:11 So horrible trouble will come on you. You will not know how to use your evil magic to make it go away. Great trouble will fall on you. No amount of money can keep it away. Something terrible will happen to you all at once. You will not see it coming ahead of time. 
Isaiah47:12 So keep on casting your magic spells. Keep on practicing your evil magic. You have been doing those things ever since you were a child. Perhaps they will help you. Maybe they will scare your enemies away. 
Isaiah47:13 All of the advice you have received has only worn you out! Let those who study the heavens come forward. They claim to know what is going to happen by watching the stars every month. So let them save you from the trouble that is coming on you. 
Isaiah47:14 They are just like straw. Fire will burn them up. They can't even save themselves from the powerful flames. They are not like coals that can warm anyone. They are not like a fire to sit by. 
Isaiah47:15 They can't do you any good. You have done business with them ever since you were a child. You have always asked them for advice. All of them are bewildered and continue in their own ways. None of them can save you. 
Isaiah48:1 People of Jacob, listen to me. You are called by the name of Israel. You come from the family line of Judah. You take oaths in the name of the Lord. You pray to Israel's God. But you aren't honest. You don't mean what you say." 
Isaiah48:2 You call yourselves citizens of the holy city of Jerusalem. You say you depend on Israel's God. His name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. He says," 
Isaiah48:3 Long ago I told you ahead of time what would happen. I announced it and made it known. Then all of a sudden I acted. And those things took place. 
Isaiah48:4 I knew how stubborn you were. Your neck was as unbending as iron. Your forehead was as hard as bronze. 
Isaiah48:5 So I told you those things long ago. Before they happened I announced them to you. I did it so you would not be able to say, 'My statues of gods did them. My wooden and metal gods made them happen.'" 
Isaiah48:6 You have heard me tell you those things. Think about all of them. Won't you admit they have taken place? From now on I will tell you about new things that will happen. I have not made them known to you before. 
Isaiah48:7 Those things are taking place right now. They did not happen long ago. You have not heard of them before today. So you can't say, 'Oh, yes. I already knew about them.'" 
Isaiah48:8 You have not heard or understood what I said. Your ears have been plugged up for a long time. I knew very well that you would turn against me. From the day you were born, you have refused to obey me." 
Isaiah48:9 For the honor of my own name I put off showing my anger. I hold it back from you so people will continue to praise me. I do not want to destroy you. 
Isaiah48:10 I have put you to the test in the furnace of suffering. I have tried to make you pure. But I did not use as much heat as it takes to make silver pure. 
Isaiah48:11 I tried to purify you for my own honor. I did it for the honor of my name. How can I let myself be dishonored? I will not give up my glory to any other god. 
Isaiah48:12 Family of Jacob, listen to me. People of Israel, pay attention. I have chosen you. I am the First and the Last. I am the Lord." 
Isaiah48:13 With my own hand I laid the foundations of the earth. With my right hand I spread out the heavens. When I send for them, they come and stand ready to obey me." 
Isaiah48:14 People of Israel, come together and listen to me. What other god has said ahead of time that certain things would happen? I have chosen Cyrus. He will carry out my plans against Babylon. He will use his powerful arm against the Babylonians." 
Isaiah48:15 I myself have spoken. I have chosen him to carry out my purpose. I will bring him to Babylon. He will succeed in what I tell him to do. 
Isaiah48:16 Come close and listen to me. From the first time I said Cyrus was coming, I did not do it in secret. When he comes, I will be there."" The Lord and King has filled me with his Spirit. People of Israel, he has sent me to you." 
Isaiah48:17 The Lord is the Holy One of Israel. He sets his people free. He says to them, ""I am the Lord your God. I teach you what is best for you. I direct you in the way you should go." 
Isaiah48:18 I wish you would pay attention to my commands. If you did, peace would flow over you like a river. Holiness would sweep over you like the waves of the ocean." 
Isaiah48:19 Your family would be like the sand. Your children after you would be as many as the grains of sand by the sea. It would be impossible to count them. I would always accept the members of your family line. They would never be cut off or destroyed. 
Isaiah48:20 People of Israel, leave Babylon! Hurry up and get away from the Babylonians! Here is what I want you to announce. Make it known with shouts of joy. Send the news out from one end of the earth to the other. Say, ""The Lord has set Jacob's people free. They are his servants.""" 
Isaiah48:21 They didn't get thirsty when he led them through the deserts. He made water flow out of the rock for them. He broke the rock open, and water came out of it." 
Isaiah48:22 There is no peace for those who are evil,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah49:1 People who live on the islands, listen to me. Pay attention, you nations far away. Before I was born the Lord chose me to serve him. He appointed me by name." 
Isaiah49:2 He made my words like a sharp sword. He hid me in the palm of his hand. He made me into a sharpened arrow. He took good care of me and kept me safe. 
Isaiah49:3 He said to me, ""You are my true servant Israel. I will show my glory through you.""" 
Isaiah49:4 But I said, ""In spite of my hard work, I feel as if I haven't accomplished anything. I've used up all of my strength. It seems as if everything I've done is worthless. But the Lord will give me what I should receive. My God will reward me.""" 
Isaiah49:5 The Lord formed me in my mother's body to be his servant. He wanted me to bring the family of Jacob back to him. He wanted me to gather the people of Israel to himself. The Lord will honor me. My God will give me strength. 
Isaiah49:6 The Lord says to me, ""It is not enough for you as my servant to bring the tribes of Jacob back to their land. It is not enough for you to bring back the people of Israel I have kept alive. I will also make you a light for other nations. Then you will make it possible for the whole world to be saved.""" 
Isaiah49:7 The Lord sets his people free. He is the Holy One of Israel. He speaks to his servant, who is looked down on and hated by the nations. He speaks to the servant of rulers. He says to him, ""Kings will see you and rise up to honor you. Princes will see you and bow down to show you their respect. I am the Lord. I am faithful. I am the Holy One of Israel. I have chosen you.""" 
Isaiah49:8 The Lord says to his servant, ""When it is time to show you my favor, I will answer your prayers. When it is time to save you, I will help you. I will keep you safe. You will put my covenant with the people of Israel into effect. Then their land will be made like new again. Each tribe will be sent back to its territory that was left empty." 
Isaiah49:9 I want you to say to the prisoners, 'Come out.' Tell those who are in their dark cells, 'You are free!' ""On their way home they will eat beside the roads. They will find plenty to eat on every bare hill." 
Isaiah49:10 They will not get hungry or thirsty. The heat from the desert sun will not beat down on them. The One who shows his tender love to them will guide them. Like a shepherd, he will lead them beside springs of water." 
Isaiah49:11 I will make roads across the mountains. I will build wide roads for my people. 
Isaiah49:12 They will come from far away. Some of them will come from the north. Others will come from the west. Still others will come from Aswan in the south. 
Isaiah49:13 Shout with joy, you heavens! Be glad, you earth! Burst into song, you mountains! The Lord will comfort his people. He will show his tender love to those who are suffering." 
Isaiah49:14 But the city of Zion said, ""The Lord has deserted me. The Lord has forgotten me.""" 
Isaiah49:15 The Lord answers, ""Can a mother forget the baby who is nursing at her breast? Can she stop showing her tender love to the child who was born to her? She might forget her child. But I will not forget you." 
Isaiah49:16 I have written your name on the palms of my hands. Your walls are never out of my sight. 
Isaiah49:17 Your people will hurry back. Those who destroyed you so completely will leave you. 
Isaiah49:18 Look up. Look all around you. All of your people are getting together to come back to you. You can be sure that I live,"" announces the Lord. ""And you can be just as sure that your people will be like decorations you will wear. Like a bride, you will wear them proudly." 
Isaiah49:19 Zion, you were destroyed. Your land was left empty. It was turned into a dry and empty desert. But now you will be too small to hold all of your people. And those who destroyed you will be far away." 
Isaiah49:20 The children who were born during your time of sorrow will speak to you. They will say, 'This city is too small for us. Give us more space to live in.'" 
Isaiah49:21 Then you will say to yourself, 'Whose children are these? I lost my children. And I couldn't have any more. My children were taken far away from me. And no one wanted them. Who brought these children up? I was left all alone. So where have these children come from?' """ 
Isaiah49:22 The Lord and King continues, ""I will call out to the nations. I will give a signal to them. They will bring back your sons in their arms. They will carry your daughters on their shoulders." 
Isaiah49:23 Their kings will become like fathers to you. Their queens will be like mothers who nurse you. They will bow down to you with their faces toward the ground. They will kiss the dust at your feet to show you their respect. Then you will know that I am the Lord. Those who put their hope in me will not be ashamed. 
Isaiah49:24 Can goods that were stolen by soldiers be taken away from them? Can prisoners be set free from the powerful Babylonians? 
Isaiah49:25 Yes, they can,"" the Lord answers. ""Prisoners will be taken away from soldiers. Stolen goods will be taken back from the powerful Babylonians. Zion, I will fight against those who fight against you. And I will save your people." 
Isaiah49:26 I will make those who beat you down eat the flesh of others. They will drink blood and get drunk on it as if it were wine. Then everyone on earth will know that I am the one who saves you. I am the Lord. I set you free. I am the Mighty One of Jacob. 
Isaiah50:1 The Lord says to the people in Jerusalem, ""Do you think I divorced your people before you? Is that why I sent them away? If it is, show me the letter of divorce. I did not sell you into slavery to pay someone I owe. You were sold because you sinned against me. Your people were sent away because of their lawless acts." 
Isaiah50:2 When I came to save you, why didn't anyone welcome me? When I called out to you, why didn't anyone answer me? Wasn't my arm powerful enough to set you free? Wasn't I strong enough to save you? I dry up the sea with a single command. I turn rivers into a desert. Then fish rot because they do not have any water. They die because they are thirsty." 
Isaiah50:3 I make the sky turn dark. It looks as if it is dressed in black clothes. 
Isaiah50:4 The Lord and King has taught me what to say. He has taught me how to help those who are tired. He wakes me up every morning. He makes me want to listen like a good student. 
Isaiah50:5 The Lord and King has unplugged my ears. I've always obeyed him. I haven't turned away from him. 
Isaiah50:6 I let my enemies beat me on my bare back. I let them pull the hair out of my beard. I didn't turn my face away when they made fun of me and spit on me. 
Isaiah50:7 The Lord and King helps me. He won't let me be dishonored. So I've made up my mind to keep on serving him. I know he won't let me be put to shame. 
Isaiah50:8 He is near. He will prove I haven't done anything wrong. So who will bring charges against me? Let's face each other in court! Who can bring charges against me? Let him come and face me! 
Isaiah50:9 The Lord and King helps me. So who will judge me? My enemies will be like clothes that moths have eaten up. They will disappear. 
Isaiah50:10 Does anyone among you have respect for the Lord? Does anyone obey the message of the Lord's servant? Let the person who walks in the dark trust in the Lord. Let the one who doesn't have any light to guide him depend on his God. 
Isaiah50:11 But all of you sinners who light fires should go ahead and walk in their light. You who carry flaming torches should walk in their light. Here's what I'm going to do to you. I'll make you lie down in great pain. 
Isaiah51:1 The Lord says, ""Listen to me, you who want to do what is right. Pay attention, you who look to me. Consider the rock you were cut out of. Think about the rock pit you were dug from." 
Isaiah51:2 Consider Abraham. He is the father of your people. Think about Sarah. She is your mother. When I chose Abraham, he did not have any children. But I blessed him and gave him many of them." 
Isaiah51:3 You can be sure that I will comfort Zion's people. I will look with loving concern on all of their destroyed buildings. I will make their deserts like Eden. I will make their dry and empty land like my very own garden. Joy and gladness will be there. People will sing and give thanks to me. 
Isaiah51:4 Listen to me, my people. Pay attention, my nation. My law will go out to the nations. I make everything right. That will be a guiding light for them." 
Isaiah51:5 The time for me to set you free is near. I will soon save you. My powerful arm will make everything right among the nations. The islands will put their hope in me. They will wait for my powerful arm to act. 
Isaiah51:6 Look up toward the heavens. Then look at the earth. The heavens will vanish like smoke. The earth will wear out like clothes. Those who live there will die like flies. But I will save you forever. My saving power will never end. 
Isaiah51:7 Listen to me, you who know what is right. Pay attention, you who have my law in your hearts. Do not be afraid when mere people make fun of you. Do not be terrified when they laugh at you." 
Isaiah51:8 They will be like clothes that moths have eaten up. They will be like wool that worms have chewed up. But my saving power will last forever. I will save you for all time to come. 
Isaiah51:9 Wake up! Lord, wake up! Dress your powerful arm with strength as if it were your clothes. Wake up, just as you did in the past. Wake up, as you did long ago. Didn't you cut Rahab to pieces? Didn't you stab that sea monster to death?" 
Isaiah51:10 Didn't you dry up the Red Sea? Didn't you dry up those deep waters? You made a road on the bottom of that sea. Then those who were set free went across. 
Isaiah51:11 Those the Lord has saved will return to their land. They will sing as they enter the city of Zion. Joy that lasts forever will be like beautiful crowns on their heads. They will be filled with gladness and joy. Sorrow and sighing will be gone. 
Isaiah51:12 The Lord says to his people, ""I comfort you because of who I am. Why are you afraid of mere men? They are only human beings. They are like grass that dries up." 
Isaiah51:13 How can you forget me? I made you. I spread out the heavens. I laid the foundations of the earth. Why are you terrified every day? Is it because those who are angry with you are crushing you? Is it because they are trying to destroy you? Their anger can't harm you anymore. 
Isaiah51:14 You prisoners who are so afraid will soon be set free. You will not die in your prison cells. You will not go without food. 
Isaiah51:15 I am the Lord your God. I stir up the ocean. I make its waves roar. My name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. 
Isaiah51:16 I have put my words in your mouth. I have kept you safe in the palm of my hand. I set the heavens in place. I laid the foundations of the earth. I say to Zion, 'You are my people.' """ 
Isaiah51:17 Wake up, Jerusalem! Wake up! Get up! The Lord has handed you the cup of his burning anger. And you have drunk from it. That cup makes men unsteady on their feet. And you have drunk from it to the very last drop." 
Isaiah51:18 None of the children who were born to you are left to guide you. None of the children you brought up are left to lead you by the hand. 
Isaiah51:19 Nothing but trouble has come to you. You have been wiped out and destroyed. And you have suffered hunger and war. No one feels sorry for you. No one can comfort you. 
Isaiah51:20 Your children have fainted. They lie helpless at every street corner. They are like antelope that have been caught in a net. They have felt the full force of the Lord's burning anger. Jerusalem, your God had to warn them strongly." 
Isaiah51:21 So listen to me, you suffering people of Jerusalem. You have been made drunk, but not by drinking wine." 
Isaiah51:22 Your Lord and King speaks. He is your God. He stands up for his people. He says, ""I have taken from you the cup of my burning anger. It made you unsteady on your feet. But you will never drink from that cup again." 
Isaiah51:23 Instead, I will give it to those who made you suffer. They said to you, 'Fall down flat on the ground. Then we can walk all over you.' And that is exactly what you did. You made your back like a street to be walked on.""" 
Isaiah52:1 Wake up! Zion, wake up! Dress yourself with strength as if it were your clothes. Holy city of Jerusalem, put on your clothes of glory. Those who haven't been circumcised will never enter you again. Neither will those who are ""unclean.""" 
Isaiah52:2 Get up, Jerusalem! Shake off your dust. Take your place on your throne. Captured people of Zion, remove the chains from your neck." 
Isaiah52:3 The Lord says, ""When you were sold as slaves, no one paid anything for you. Now no one will pay any money to set you free.""" 
Isaiah52:4 The Lord and King continues, ""Long ago my people went down to Egypt. They lived there for a while. Later, Assyria crushed them without any reason." 
Isaiah52:5 Now look at what has happened to them,"" announces the Lord. ""Once again my people have been taken away. And no one paid anything for them. Those who rule over them brag about it,"" announces the Lord. ""All day long without stopping, people speak evil things against my name." 
Isaiah52:6 So the day will come when my people will really know the meaning of my name. They will know what kind of God I am. They will know that I told them ahead of time they would return to their land. They will know that it was I. 
Isaiah52:7 What a beautiful sight it is to see messengers coming with good news! How beautiful to see them coming down from the mountains with a message about peace! How wonderful it is when they bring the good news that we are saved! How wonderful when they say to Zion, ""Your God rules!""" 
Isaiah52:8 Listen! Those on guard duty are shouting out the message. With their own eyes they see the Lord returning to Zion. So they shout with joy. 
Isaiah52:9 Burst into songs of joy together, you broken-down buildings in Jerusalem. The Lord has comforted his people. He has set Jerusalem free." 
Isaiah52:10 The Lord will use the power of his holy arm to save his people. All of the nations will see him do it. Everyone from one end of the earth to the other will see it. 
Isaiah52:11 You who carry the articles that belong to the Lord's temple, leave Babylon! Leave it! Get out of there! Don't touch anything that isn't pure and clean. Come out of Babylon and be pure." 
Isaiah52:12 But this time you won't have to leave in a hurry. You won't have to rush away. The Lord will go ahead of you and lead you. The God of Israel will follow behind you and guard you. 
Isaiah52:13 The Lord says, ""My servant will act wisely and accomplish his task. He will be highly honored. He will be greatly respected." 
Isaiah52:14 Many people were shocked when they saw him. He was so scarred that he did not look like a man at all. His body was so twisted that he did not look like a human being anymore. 
Isaiah52:15 But many nations will be surprised when they see what he has done. Kings will be so amazed that they will not be able to say anything. They will understand things they were never told about. They will know the meaning of things they never heard about. 
Isaiah53:1 Who has believed what we've been saying? Who has seen the Lord's saving power? 
Isaiah53:2 His servant grew up like a tender young plant. He grew like a root coming up out of dry ground. He didn't have any beauty or majesty that made us notice him. There wasn't anything special about the way he looked that drew us to him. 
Isaiah53:3 Men looked down on him. They didn't accept him. He knew all about sorrow and suffering. He was like someone people turn their faces away from. We looked down on him. We didn't have any respect for him. 
Isaiah53:4 He suffered the things we should have suffered. He took on himself the pain that should have been ours. But we thought God was punishing him. We thought God was wounding him and making him suffer. 
Isaiah53:5 But the servant was pierced because we had sinned. He was crushed because we had done what was evil. He was punished to make us whole again. His wounds have healed us. 
Isaiah53:6 All of us are like sheep. We have wandered away from God. All of us have turned to our own way. And the Lord has placed on his servant the sins of all of us. 
Isaiah53:7 He was beaten down and made to suffer. But he didn't open his mouth. He was led away like a sheep to be killed. Lambs are silent while their wool is being cut off. In the same way, he didn't open his mouth." 
Isaiah53:8 He was arrested and sentenced to death. Then he was taken away. He was cut off from this life. He was punished for the sins of my people. Who among those who were living at that time could have understood those things? 
Isaiah53:9 He was given a grave with those who were evil. But his body was buried in the tomb of a rich man. He was killed even though he hadn't harmed anyone. And he had never lied to anyone. 
Isaiah53:10 The Lord says, ""It was my plan to crush him and cause him to suffer. I made his life a guilt offering to pay for sin. But he will see all of his children after him. In fact, he will continue to live. My plan will be brought about through him." 
Isaiah53:11 After he suffers, he will see the light that leads to life. And he will be satisfied. My godly servant will make many people godly because of what he will accomplish. He will be punished for their sins." 
Isaiah53:12 So I will give him a place of honor among those who are great. He will be rewarded just like others who win the battle. That is because he was willing to give his life as a sacrifice. He was counted among those who had committed crimes. He took the sins of many people on himself. And he gave his life for those who had done what is wrong. 
Isaiah54:1 Jerusalem, sing! You are now like a woman who never had a child. Burst into song! Shout with joy! You who have never had labor pains, you are now all alone. But you will have more children than a woman who still has a husband,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah54:2 Make a large area for your tent. Spread out its curtains. Go ahead and make your tent wider. Make its ropes longer. Drive the stakes down deeper. 
Isaiah54:3 You will spread out to the right and the left. Your children after you will drive out the nations that are now living in your land. They will settle down in the deserted cities of those nations. 
Isaiah54:4 Do not be afraid. You will not be put to shame anymore. Do not be afraid of being dishonored. People will no longer make fun of you. You will forget the time when you suffered as slaves in Egypt. You will no longer remember the shame of being a widow in Babylonia. 
Isaiah54:5 I made you. I am now your husband. My name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. I am the Holy One of Israel. I have set you free. I am the God of the whole earth. 
Isaiah54:6 You were like a wife who was deserted. And her heart was broken. You were like a wife who married young. And her husband sent her away. But now I am calling you to come back,"" says your God." 
Isaiah54:7 For a brief moment I left you. But because I love you so much, I will bring you back." 
Isaiah54:8 For a moment I turned my face away from you. I was very angry with you. But I will show you my loving concern. My faithful love will continue forever,"" says the Lord. He is the one who set you free." 
Isaiah54:9 During Noah's time I took an oath and made a promise. I said I would never cover the earth with water again. In the same way, I have promised not to be angry with you. I will never punish you again." 
Isaiah54:10 The mountains might shake. The hills might be removed. But my faithful love for you will never be shaken. And my covenant that promises peace to you will never be broken,"" says the Lord. He shows you his loving concern." 
Isaiah54:11 Suffering city, you have been beaten by storms. You have not been comforted. I will rebuild you with turquoise stones. I will rebuild your foundations with sapphires." 
Isaiah54:12 I will line the top of your city wall with rubies. I will make your gates out of gleaming jewels. And I will make all of your walls out of precious stones. 
Isaiah54:13 I will teach all of your children. And they will enjoy great peace. 
Isaiah54:14 When you do what is right, you will be made secure. Your leaders will not be mean to you. You will not have anything to be afraid of. You will not be terrified anymore. Terror will not come near you." 
Isaiah54:15 People might attack you. But I will not be the cause of it. Those who attack you will give themselves up to you. 
Isaiah54:16 I created blacksmiths. They fan the coals into flames of fire. They make weapons that are fit for their work. I also created those who destroy others. 
Isaiah54:17 But no weapon that is used against you will succeed. People might bring charges against you. But you will prove that they are wrong. Those are the things I do for my servants. I make everything right for them,"" announces the Lord." 
Isaiah55:1 Come, all of you who are thirsty. Come and drink the water I offer to you. You who do not have any money, come. Buy and eat the grain I give you. Come and buy wine and milk. You will not have to pay anything for it." 
Isaiah55:2 Why spend money on what is not food? Why work for what does not satisfy you? Listen carefully to me. Then you will eat what is good. You will enjoy the richest food there is. 
Isaiah55:3 Listen and come to me. Pay attention to me. Then you will live. I will make a covenant with you that will last forever. I will give you my faithful love. I promised it to David. 
Isaiah55:4 I made him a witness to the nations. He became a leader and commander over them. 
Isaiah55:5 You too will send for nations you do not know. Even though they do not know you, they will hurry and come to you. That is what I will do. I am the Lord your God. I am the Holy One of Israel. I have honored you.""" 
Isaiah55:6 Turn to the Lord before it's too late. Call out to him while he's still ready to help you. 
Isaiah55:7 Let the one who is evil stop doing evil things. And let him quit thinking evil thoughts. Let him turn to the Lord. The Lord will show him his tender love. Let him turn to our God. He is always ready to forgive. 
Isaiah55:8 My thoughts are not like your thoughts. And your ways are not like my ways,"" announces the Lord." 
Isaiah55:9 The heavens are higher than the earth. And my ways are higher than your ways. My thoughts are higher than your thoughts. 
Isaiah55:10 The rain and the snow come down from the sky. They do not return to it without watering the earth. They make plants come up and grow. The plants produce seeds for farmers. They also produce food for people to eat. 
Isaiah55:11 The words I speak are like that. They will not return to me without producing results. They will accomplish what I want them to. They will do exactly what I sent them to do. 
Isaiah55:12 My people, you will leave Babylonia with joy. You will be led out of it in peace. The mountains and hills will burst into song as you go. And all of the trees in the fields will clap their hands." 
Isaiah55:13 Pine trees will grow where there used to be bushes that had thorns on them. And myrtle trees will grow where there used to be thorns. That will bring me great fame. It will be a lasting reminder of what I can do. It will not be forgotten. 
Isaiah56:1 The Lord says, ""Do what is fair and right. I will soon come and save you. Soon everyone will know that what I do is right." 
Isaiah56:2 Blessed is the man who does what I want him to. He is faithful in keeping the Sabbath day. He does not misuse it. He does not do what is evil on that day. 
Isaiah56:3 Suppose an outsider wants to follow the Lord. Then he shouldn't say, ""The Lord won't accept me as one of his people."" And a eunuch shouldn't say, ""I'm like a dry tree that doesn't bear any fruit.""" 
Isaiah56:4 The Lord says, ""Suppose some eunuchs keep my Sabbath days. They choose to do what pleases me. And they are faithful in keeping my covenant." 
Isaiah56:5 Then I will set up a monument in the area of my temple. Their names will be written on it. That will be better for them than having sons and daughters. The names of the eunuchs will be remembered forever. They will never be forgotten. 
Isaiah56:6 Suppose outsiders want to follow me and serve me. They want to love me and worship me. They keep the Sabbath day and do not misuse it. And they are faithful in keeping my covenant. 
Isaiah56:7 Then I will bring them to my holy mountain of Zion. I will give them joy in my house. They can pray there. I will accept their burnt offerings and sacrifices on my altar. My house will be called a house where people from all nations can pray. 
Isaiah56:8 The Lord and King will gather those who were taken away from their homes in Israel. He announces, ""I will gather them to myself. And I will gather others to join them.""" 
Isaiah56:9 Come, all of you enemy nations! Come like wild animals. Come and destroy like animals in the forest." 
Isaiah56:10 Israel's prophets are blind. They don't know the Lord. All of them are like watchdogs that can't even bark. They just lie around and dream. They love to sleep. 
Isaiah56:11 They are like dogs that love to eat. They never get enough. They are like shepherds who don't have any understanding. All of them do as they please. They only look for what they can get for themselves. 
Isaiah56:12 Come! they shout. Let's get some wine! Let's drink all the beer we can! Tomorrow we'll do the same thing. And that will be even better than today. 
Isaiah57:1 Those who are right with God die. And no one really cares about it. Men who are faithful to the Lord are swept away by trouble. And no one understands why that happens to those who do what is right. 
Isaiah57:2 Those who lead honest lives will enjoy peace and rest when they die. 
Isaiah57:3 The Lord says, ""Come here, you children of women who practice evil magic! You are children of prostitutes and those who commit adultery." 
Isaiah57:4 Who are you making fun of? Who are you laughing at? Who are you sticking your tongue out at? You are people who refuse to obey me. You are just a bunch of liars! 
Isaiah57:5 You burn with sinful longing among the oak trees. You worship your gods by having sex under every green tree. You sacrifice your children in the valleys. You also do it under the cliffs. 
Isaiah57:6 You have chosen some of the smooth stones in the valleys to be your gods. You have joined yourselves to them. You have even poured out drink offerings to them. You have given grain offerings to them. So why should I take pity on you? 
Isaiah57:7 You have made your bed to have sex on a very high hill. You went up there to offer your sacrifices. 
Isaiah57:8 You have set up statues to remind you of your gods. You have put them behind your doors and doorposts. You deserted me. You invited other lovers into your bed. You climbed into it and welcomed them. You made a deal with them. And you looked at their naked bodies. 
Isaiah57:9 You went to the god Molech with olive oil. You took a lot of perfume along with you. You sent your messengers to places far away. You even sent them down to the place of the dead. 
Isaiah57:10 All of your efforts wore you out. But you would not say, 'It's hopeless.' You received new strength. So you did not give up." 
Isaiah57:11 Who are you so afraid of that you have not been true to me? You have not remembered me. You do not even care about me. I have not punished you for a long time. That is why you are not afraid of me. 
Isaiah57:12 You have not done what is right or good. I will let everyone know about it. And that will not be of any benefit to you. 
Isaiah57:13 Go ahead and cry out for help to all of the statues of your gods. See if they can save you! The wind will carry them off. Just a puff of air will blow them away. But anyone who comes to me for safety will receive the land. He will possess my holy mountain of Zion. 
Isaiah57:14 A messenger says, ""Build up the road! Build it up! Get it ready! Remove anything that would keep my people from coming back.""" 
Isaiah57:15 The One who is highly honored lives forever. His name is holy. He says, ""I live in a high and holy place. But I also live with anyone who turns away from his sins. I live with anyone who is not proud. I give new life to him. I give it to anyone who turns away from his sins." 
Isaiah57:16 I will not find fault with my people forever. I will not always be angry with them. If I were, I would cause their spirits to grow weak. The very breath of life would go out of the people I created." 
Isaiah57:17 I was very angry with them. They always longed for more and more of everything. So I punished them for that sin. I turned my face away from them because I was angry. But they kept on wanting their own way. 
Isaiah57:18 I have seen what they have done. But I will heal them. I will guide them. And I will comfort them just as I did before. 
Isaiah57:19 Then the people of Israel who are sorry for their sins will praise me. I will give perfect peace to those who are far away and those who are near. And I will heal them,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah57:20 But those who are evil are like the rolling sea. It never rests. Its waves toss up mud and sand. 
Isaiah57:21 There is no peace for those who are evil,"" says my God." 
Isaiah58:1 The Lord told me, ""Shout out loud. Do not hold back. Raise your voice like a trumpet. Tell my people that they have refused to obey me. Tell the family of Jacob how much they have sinned." 
Isaiah58:2 Day after day they worship me. They seem ready and willing to know how I want them to live. They act as if they were a nation that does what is right. They act as if they have not turned away from my commands. They claim to want me to give them fair decisions. They seem ready and willing to come near and worship me. 
Isaiah58:3 'We have gone without food,' they say. 'Why haven't you noticed it? We have made ourselves suffer. Why haven't you paid any attention to us?' ""On the day when you fast, you do as you please. You take advantage of all of your workers." 
Isaiah58:4 When you fast, it ends in arguing and fighting. You hit one another with your fists. That is an evil thing to do. The way you are now fasting keeps your prayers from being heard in heaven." 
Isaiah58:5 Do you think that is the way I want you to fast? Is it only a time for a man to make himself suffer? Is it only for people to bow their heads like tall grass that is bent by the wind? Is it only for people to lie down on black cloth and ashes? Is that what you call a fast? Do you think I can accept that? 
Isaiah58:6 Here is the way I want you to fast. Set free those who are held by chains without any reason. Untie the ropes that hold people as slaves. Set free those who are crushed. Break every evil chain. 
Isaiah58:7 Share your food with hungry people. Provide homeless people with a place to stay. Give naked people clothes to wear. Provide for the needs of your own family. 
Isaiah58:8 Then the light of my blessing will shine on you like the rising sun. I will heal you quickly. I will march out ahead of you. And my glory will follow behind you and guard you. That is because I always do what is right. 
Isaiah58:9 You will call out to me for help. And I will answer you. You will cry out. And I will say, 'Here I am.' ""Get rid of the chains you use to hold others down. Stop pointing your finger at others as if they had done something wrong. Stop saying harmful things about them." 
Isaiah58:10 Work hard to feed hungry people. Satisfy the needs of those who are crushed. Then my blessing will light up your darkness. And the night of your suffering will become as bright as the noonday sun. 
Isaiah58:11 I will always guide you. I will satisfy your needs in a land that is baked by the sun. I will make you stronger. You will be like a garden that has plenty of water. You will be like a spring whose water never runs dry. 
Isaiah58:12 Your people will rebuild the cities that were destroyed long ago. And you will build again on the old foundations. You will be called The One Who Repairs Broken Walls. You will be called The One Who Makes City Streets Like New Again. 
Isaiah58:13 Do not work on the Sabbath day. Do not do just anything you want to on my holy day. Make the Sabbath a day you can enjoy. Honor my holy day. Do not work on it. Do not do just anything you want to. Do not talk about things that are worthless. 
Isaiah58:14 Then you will find your joy in me. I will give you control over the most important places in the land. And you will enjoy all of the good things in the land I gave your father Jacob. The Lord has spoken. 
Isaiah59:1 People of Israel, the Lord's arm is not too weak to save you. His ears aren't too deaf to hear your cry for help." 
Isaiah59:2 But your sins have separated you from your God. They have caused him to turn his face away from you. So he won't listen to you. 
Isaiah59:3 Your hands and fingers are stained with blood. You are guilty of committing murder. Your mouth has told lies. Your tongue says evil things. 
Isaiah59:4 People aren't fair when they present their cases in court. They aren't honest when they state their case. They depend on weak arguments. They tell lies. They plan to make trouble. Then they carry it out. 
Isaiah59:5 The plans they make are like the eggs of poisonous snakes. Anyone who eats those eggs will die. When one of them is broken, a snake comes out." 
Isaiah59:6 Those people weave their evil plans together like a spider's web. But the webs they make can't be used as clothes. They can't cover themselves with what they make. Their acts are evil. They do things to harm others. 
Isaiah59:7 They are always in a hurry to sin. They run quickly to murder those who aren't guilty. Their thoughts are evil. They leave a trail of suffering and pain. 
Isaiah59:8 They don't know how to live at peace with others. What they do isn't fair. They lead twisted lives. No one who lives like that will enjoy peace and rest. 
Isaiah59:9 We aren't being treated fairly. We haven't been set free yet. The God who always does what is right hasn't come to help us. We look for light. But we see nothing but darkness. We look for brightness. But we walk in deep shadows. 
Isaiah59:10 Like blind people we feel our way along the wall. We are like those who can't see. At noon we trip and fall as if the sun had already set. Compared to those who are healthy, we are like dead people." 
Isaiah59:11 All of us growl like hungry bears. We cry like sad doves. We want the Lord to do what is fair and save us. But he doesn't do it. We long for him to set us free. But the time for that seems far away. 
Isaiah59:12 That's because we've done so many things he considers wrong. Our sins prove that we are guilty. The wrong things we've done are always troubling us. We admit that we have sinned. 
Isaiah59:13 We've refused to obey the Lord. We've made evil plans against him. We've turned our backs on our God. We've stirred up trouble and refused to follow him. We've told lies that came from our own minds. 
Isaiah59:14 So people stop others from doing what is fair. They keep them from doing what is right. No one tells the truth in court anymore. No one is honest there. 
Isaiah59:15 In fact, truth can't be found anywhere. Those who refuse to do evil are attacked. The Lord sees that people aren't treating others fairly. That makes him unhappy." 
Isaiah59:16 He sees that there is no one who helps his people. He is shocked that no one stands up for them. So he will use his own powerful arm to save them. He has the strength to do it because he is holy. 
Isaiah59:17 He will put the armor of holiness on his chest. He'll put the helmet of salvation on his head. He'll pay people back for the wrong things they do. He'll wrap himself in anger as if it were a coat. 
Isaiah59:18 He will pay his enemies back for what they have done. He'll pour his anger out on them. He'll punish those who attack him. He'll give the people in the islands what they have coming to them. 
Isaiah59:19 People in the west will show respect for the Lord's name. People in the east will worship him because of his glory. The Lord will come like a rushing river that was held back. His breath will drive it along. 
Isaiah59:20 I set my people free. I will come to Mount Zion. I will come to those in Jacob's family who turn away from their sins,"" announces the Lord." 
Isaiah59:21 Here is the covenant I will make with them,"" says the Lord. ""My Spirit is on you. I have put my words in your mouth. They will never leave your mouth. And they will never leave the mouths of your children or their children after them. That will be true for all time to come,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah60:1 People of Jerusalem, get up. Shine, because your light has come. My glory will shine on you." 
Isaiah60:2 Darkness covers the earth. Thick darkness spreads over the nations. But I will rise and shine on you. My glory will appear over you. 
Isaiah60:3 Nations will come to your light. Kings will come to the brightness of your new day. 
Isaiah60:4 Look up. Look all around you. All of your people are getting together to come back to you. Your sons will come from far away. Your daughters will be carried like little children. 
Isaiah60:5 Then your face will glow with joy. Your heart will beat fast because you are so happy. Wealth from across the ocean will be brought to you. The riches of the nations will come to you. 
Isaiah60:6 Herds of young camels will cover your land. They will come from Midian and Ephah. They will also come from Sheba. They'll carry gold and incense. And people will shout praises to me. 
Isaiah60:7 All of Kedar's flocks will be gathered to you. The rams of Nebaioth will serve as your sacrifices. I will accept them as offerings on my altar. That is how I will bring honor to my glorious temple. 
Isaiah60:8 Whose ships are these that sail along like clouds? They fly like doves to their nests. 
Isaiah60:9 People from the islands are coming to me. The ships of Tarshish are out in front. They are bringing your children back from far away. Your children are bringing their silver and gold with them. They are coming to honor me. I am the Lord your God. I am the Holy One of Israel. I have honored you. 
Isaiah60:10 People from other lands will rebuild your walls. Their kings will serve you. When I was angry with you, I struck you. But now I will show you my tender love." 
Isaiah60:11 Your gates will always stand open. They will never be shut, day or night. Then people can bring you the wealth of the nations. Their kings will come along with them." 
Isaiah60:12 The nation or kingdom that will not serve you will be destroyed. It will be completely wiped out. 
Isaiah60:13 Lebanon's glorious trees will be brought to you. Its pines, firs and cypress trees will be brought. They will be used to make my temple beautiful. And I will bring glory to the place where my throne is." 
Isaiah60:14 The children of those who crush you will come and bow down to you. All those who hate you will kneel down at your feet. Jerusalem, they will call you The City of the Lord. They will name you Zion, the City of the Holy One of Israel." 
Isaiah60:15 You have been deserted and hated. No one even travels through you. But I will make you into something to be proud of forever. You will be a place of joy for all time to come. 
Isaiah60:16 You will get everything you need from kings and nations. You will be like children who are nursing at their mother's breasts. Then you will know that I am the one who saves you. I am the Lord. I set you free. I am the Mighty One of Jacob. 
Isaiah60:17 Instead of bronze I will bring you gold. In place of iron I will give you silver. Instead of wood I will bring you bronze. In place of stones I will give you iron. I will make peace govern you. I will make godliness rule over you. 
Isaiah60:18 People will no longer harm one another in your land. They will not wipe out or destroy anything inside your borders. You will call your walls Salvation. And you will name your gates Praise. 
Isaiah60:19 You will not need the light of the sun by day anymore. The bright light of the moon will no longer have to shine on you. I will be your light forever. My glory will shine on you. I am the Lord your God. 
Isaiah60:20 Your sun will never set again. Your moon will never lose its light. I will be your light forever. Your days of sorrow will come to an end. 
Isaiah60:21 Then all of your people will do what is right. The land will belong to them forever. They will be like a young tree I have planted. My hands have created them. They will show how glorious I am. 
Isaiah60:22 The smallest family among you will become a tribe. The smallest tribe will become a mighty nation. I am the Lord. When it is the right time, I will act quickly.""" 
Isaiah61:1 The Spirit of the Lord and King is on me. The Lord has anointed me to tell the good news to poor people. He has sent me to comfort those whose hearts have been broken. He has sent me to announce freedom for those who have been captured. He wants me to set prisoners free from their dark prisons. 
Isaiah61:2 He has sent me to announce the year when he will set his people free. He wants me to announce the day when he will pay his enemies back. Our God has sent me to comfort all those who are sad. 
Isaiah61:3 He wants me to help those in Zion who are filled with sorrow. I will put beautiful crowns on their heads in place of ashes. I will anoint them with oil to give them gladness instead of sorrow. I will give them a spirit of praise in place of a spirit of sadness. They will be like oak trees that are strong and straight. The Lord himself will plant them in the land. That will show how glorious he is. 
Isaiah61:4 They will rebuild the places that were destroyed long ago. They will repair the buildings that have been broken down for many years. They will make the destroyed cities like new again. They have been broken down for a very long time. 
Isaiah61:5 Outsiders will serve you by taking care of your flocks. People from other lands will work in your fields and vineyards. 
Isaiah61:6 You will be called priests of the Lord. You will be named workers for our God. You will enjoy the wealth of nations. You will brag about getting their riches. 
Isaiah61:7 Instead of being put to shame my people will receive a double share of wealth. Instead of being dishonored they will be glad to be in their land. They will receive a double share of riches there. And they'll be filled with joy that will last forever. 
Isaiah61:8 The Lord says, ""I love those who do what is right. I hate it when people steal and do other sinful things. So I will be faithful to those who do what is right. And I will bless them. I will make a covenant with them that will last forever." 
Isaiah61:9 Their children after them will be famous among the nations. Their families will be praised by people everywhere. All those who see them will agree that I have blessed them. 
Isaiah61:10 The people of Jerusalem will say, ""We take great delight in the Lord. We are joyful because we belong to our God. He has dressed us with salvation as if it were our clothes. He has put robes of godliness on us. We are like a groom who is dressed up for his wedding. We are like a bride who decorates herself with her jewels." 
Isaiah61:11 The soil makes the young plant come up. A garden causes seeds to grow. In the same way, the Lord and King will make godliness grow. And all of the nations will praise him.""" 
Isaiah62:1 The Lord says, ""For the good of Zion I will not keep silent. For Jerusalem's benefit I will not remain quiet. I will not keep silent until its people's godliness shines like the sunrise. I will not remain quiet until they are saved and shine like a blazing torch." 
Isaiah62:2 Jerusalem, the nations will see that I have made everything right for you. All of their kings will see your glory. You will be called by a new name. I myself will give it to you." 
Isaiah62:3 You will be like a glorious crown in my strong hand. You will be like a royal crown in my powerful hand. 
Isaiah62:4 People will not call you Deserted anymore. They will no longer name your land Empty. Instead, you will be called The One the Lord Delights In. Your land will be named The Married One. I will take delight in you. And your land will be like a bride." 
Isaiah62:5 As a young man gets married to a young woman, your people will marry you. As a groom is happy with his bride, I will be full of joy over you.""" 
Isaiah62:6 Jerusalem, I have stationed guards on your walls. They must never be silent day or night. You who call out to the Lord must not give yourselves any rest." 
Isaiah62:7 And don't give him any rest until he makes Jerusalem secure. Don't give him any peace until people all over the earth praise that city. 
Isaiah62:8 The Lord has taken an oath and made a promise. He has lifted up his right hand and mighty arm. He has promised, ""I will never give your grain to your enemies for food again. Outsiders will never again drink the fresh wine you have worked so hard for." 
Isaiah62:9 Instead, those who gather the grain will eat it themselves. And they will praise me. Those who gather grapes to make the wine will enjoy it. They will drink it in the courtyards of my temple.""" 
Isaiah62:10 Go out through your gates, people of Jerusalem! Go out! Prepare the way for the rest of your people to return. Build up the road! Build it up! Remove the stones. Raise a banner over the city for the nations to see." 
Isaiah62:11 The Lord has announced a message from one end of the earth to the other. He has said, ""Tell the people of Zion, 'Look! Your Savior is coming! He is bringing his people back as his reward. He has won the battle over their enemies.' """ 
Isaiah62:12 They will be called The Holy People. The Lord will set them free. And Jerusalem will be named The City the Lord Cares About. It won't be deserted anymore. 
Isaiah63:1 Who is this man coming from the city of Bozrah in Edom? His clothes are stained bright red. Who is he? He is dressed up in all of his glory. He is marching toward us with great strength. The Lord answers, ""It is I. I have won the battle. I am mighty. I have saved my people.""" 
Isaiah63:2 Why are your clothes red? They look as if you have been stomping on grapes in a winepress. 
Isaiah63:3 The Lord answers, ""I have been stomping on the nations as if they were grapes. No one was there to help me. I walked all over the nations because I was angry. That is why I stomped on them. Their blood splashed all over my clothes. So my clothes were stained bright red." 
Isaiah63:4 I decided it was time to pay Israel's enemies back. The year for me to set my people free had come. 
Isaiah63:5 I looked around, but no one was there to help me. I was shocked that no one gave me any help. So I used my own powerful arm to save my people. I had the strength to do it because I was angry." 
Isaiah63:6 I walked all over the nations because I was angry with them. I made them drink from the cup of my burning anger. I poured their blood out on the ground. 
Isaiah63:7 I will talk about the kind things the Lord has done. I'll praise him for everything he's done for us. He has done many good things for the nation of Israel. That's because he loves us and is very kind to us. 
Isaiah63:8 In the past he said, ""They are my people. They will not turn against me."" So he saved them." 
Isaiah63:9 When they suffered, he suffered with them. He sent his angel to save them. He set them free because he is loving and kind. He lifted them up and carried them. He did it again and again in days long ago." 
Isaiah63:10 But they refused to obey him. They made his Holy Spirit sad. So he turned against them and became their enemy. He himself fought against them. 
Isaiah63:11 Then his people remembered what he did long ago. They recalled the days of Moses and his people. They asked, ""Where is the One who brought Israel through the Red Sea? Moses led them as the shepherd of his flock. Where is the One who put his Holy Spirit among them?" 
Isaiah63:12 He used his glorious and powerful arm to help Moses. He parted the waters of the sea in front of them. That mighty act made him famous forever. 
Isaiah63:13 He led them through that deep sea. Like a horse in open country, they didn't trip and fall." 
Isaiah63:14 Like cattle that are taken down to the flatlands, they were given rest by the Spirit of the Lord."" That's how he guided his people. So he made a glorious name for himself." 
Isaiah63:15 Lord, look down from heaven. Look down from your holy and glorious throne. Where is your great love for us? Where is your power? Why don't you show us your tender love and concern?" 
Isaiah63:16 You are our Father. Abraham might not accept us as his children. Jacob might not recognize us as his family. But you are our Father, Lord. Your name is The One Who Always Sets Us Free." 
Isaiah63:17 Lord, why do you let us wander away from you? Why do you let us become so stubborn that we don't respect you? Come back and help us. We are the tribes that belong to you." 
Isaiah63:18 For a little while your holy people possessed the land. But now our enemies have torn your temple down. 
Isaiah63:19 We are like people you never ruled over. We are like those who don't belong to you. 
Isaiah64:1 I wish you would open up your heavens and come down to us! I wish the mountains would tremble when you show your power! 
Isaiah64:2 Be like a fire that causes twigs to burn. It also makes water boil. So come down and make yourself known to your enemies. Cause the nations to shake with fear when they see your power! 
Isaiah64:3 Long ago you did some wonderful things we didn't expect. You came down, and the mountains trembled when you showed your power." 
Isaiah64:4 No one's ears have ever heard of a God like you. No one's eyes have ever seen a God who is greater than you. No God but you acts for the good of those who trust in him. 
Isaiah64:5 You come to help those who enjoy doing what is right. You help those who thank you for teaching them how to live. But when we continued to disobey you, you became angry with us. So how can we be saved?" 
Isaiah64:6 All of us have become like someone who is unclean. All of the good things we do are like polluted rags to you. All of us are like leaves that have dried up. Our sins sweep us away like the wind. 
Isaiah64:7 No one prays to you. No one asks you for help. You have turned your face away from us. You have let us waste away because we have sinned so much. 
Isaiah64:8 Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay. You are the potter. Your hands made all of us." 
Isaiah64:9 Don't be so angry with us, Lord. Don't remember our sins anymore. Please show us your favor. All of us belong to you." 
Isaiah64:10 Your sacred cities have become a desert. Even Zion is a desert. Jerusalem is a dry and empty place. 
Isaiah64:11 Our people used to praise you in our holy and glorious temple. But now it has been burned down. Everything we treasured has been destroyed. 
Isaiah64:12 Lord, won't you help us even after everything that's happened? Will you keep silent and punish us more than we can stand?" 
Isaiah65:1 The Lord says, ""I made myself known to those who were not asking for me. I was found by those who were not trying to find me. I spoke to a nation that did not pray to me. 'Here I am,' I said. 'Here I am.'" 
Isaiah65:2 All day long I have held out my hands to welcome a stubborn nation. They lead sinful lives. They go where their evil thoughts take them. 
Isaiah65:3 They are always making me very angry. They do it right in front of me. They offer sacrifices in the gardens of other gods. They burn incense on altars that are made out of bricks. 
Isaiah65:4 They sit among the graves. They spend their nights talking to the spirits of the dead. They eat the meat of pigs. Their cooking pots hold soup that has 'unclean' meat in it. 
Isaiah65:5 They say, 'Keep away! Don't come near us! We are too sacred for you!' Those people are like smoke in my nose. They are like a fire that keeps burning all day." 
Isaiah65:6 I will judge them. I have even written it down. I will not keep silent. Instead, I will pay them back for all of their sins." 
Isaiah65:7 I will punish them for their sins and the sins of their people before them,"" says the Lord. ""They burned sacrifices on the mountains. They disobeyed me by worshiping other gods on the hills. So I will really punish them for all of the sins they have committed.""" 
Isaiah65:8 The Lord says, ""Sometimes juice is still left in grapes that have been crushed. So people say, 'Don't destroy them. Some good juice is still left in them.' That is what I will do for the good of those who serve me. I will not destroy all of my people." 
Isaiah65:9 I will give children to the families of Jacob and Judah. They will possess my entire land. My chosen people will be given all of it. Those who serve me will live there. 
Isaiah65:10 Their flocks will eat in the rich grasslands of Sharon. Their herds will rest in the Valley of Achor. That is what I will do for my people who follow me. 
Isaiah65:11 But some of you have deserted me. You no longer worship on my holy mountain of Zion. You spread a table for the god that is called Good Fortune. You offer bowls of mixed wine to the god named Fate. 
Isaiah65:12 So I will make it your fate to be killed with swords. Each of you will die a horrible death. That is because I called out to you, but you did not answer me. I spoke to you, but you did not listen. You did what is evil in my sight. You chose to do what does not please me.""" 
Isaiah65:13 So the Lord and King says, ""Those who serve me will have food to eat. But you will be hungry. My servants will have plenty to drink. But you will be thirsty. Those who serve me will be full of joy. But you will be put to shame." 
Isaiah65:14 My servants will sing with joy in their hearts. But you will cry out because of the great pain in your hearts. You will cry because your spirits are sad. 
Isaiah65:15 My chosen ones will use your names when they call down curses on others. I am your Lord and King. I will put you to death. But I will give new names to those who serve me. 
Isaiah65:16 They will ask me to bless their land. They will do it in my name. I am the God of truth. They will take oaths and make promises in their land. They will do it in my name. I am the God of truth. The troubles of the past will be forgotten. They will be hidden from my eyes. 
Isaiah65:17 I will create new heavens and a new earth. The things that have happened before will not be remembered. They will not even enter your minds. 
Isaiah65:18 So be glad and full of joy forever because of what I will create. I will cause others to take delight in Jerusalem. They will be filled with joy when they see its people. 
Isaiah65:19 And I will be full of joy because of Jerusalem. I will take delight in my people. Sobbing and crying will not be heard there anymore. 
Isaiah65:20 Babies in Jerusalem will no longer live only a few days. Old people will not fail to live for a very long time. Those who live to the age of 100 will be thought of as still being young when they die. Those who die before they are 100 will be considered as having been under God's curse. 
Isaiah65:21 My people will build houses and live in them. They will plant vineyards and eat their fruit. 
Isaiah65:22 They will no longer build houses only to have others live in them. They will no longer plant crops only to have others eat them. My people will live to be as old as trees. My chosen ones will enjoy for a long time the things they have worked for. 
Isaiah65:23 Their work will not be worthless anymore. They will not have children who are sure to face sudden terror. Instead, I will bless them. I will also bless their children after them." 
Isaiah65:24 Even before they call out to me, I will answer them. While they are still speaking, I will hear them." 
Isaiah65:25 Wolves and lambs will eat together. Lions will eat straw like oxen. Serpents will not bite anyone. They will eat nothing but dust. None of those animals will harm or destroy anything or anyone on my holy mountain of Zion,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:1 The Lord says, ""Heaven is my throne. The earth is under my control. So how could you ever build a house for me? Where would my resting place be?" 
Isaiah66:2 Didn't my powerful hand make everything? That is how all things were created,"" announces the Lord. ""The person I value is not proud. He is sorry for the wrong things he has done. He has great respect for what I say." 
Isaiah66:3 But others are not like that. They sacrifice bulls to me, but at the same time they kill people. They offer lambs to me, but they also sacrifice dogs to other gods. They bring grain offerings to me, but they also offer pig's blood to other gods. They burn incense to me, but they also worship statues of gods. They have chosen to go their own way. They take delight in things I hate." 
Isaiah66:4 So I have also made a choice. I will make them suffer greatly. I will bring on them what they are afraid of. When I called out to them, no one answered me. When I spoke to them, no one listened. They did what is evil in my sight. They chose to do what displeases me.""" 
Isaiah66:5 Listen to the word of the Lord. Listen, you who tremble with fear when he speaks. He says, ""Some of your own people hate you. They turn their backs on you because you are faithful to me. They make fun of you and say, 'Let the Lord show his glory by saving you. Then we can see how happy you are.' But they will be put to shame." 
Isaiah66:6 Hear the loud sounds coming from the city! Listen to the noise coming from the temple! I am the one who is causing it. I am paying my enemies back for everything they have done. 
Isaiah66:7 Zion is like a woman who has a baby before she goes into labor. She has a son even before her labor pains begin. 
Isaiah66:8 Who has ever heard of anything like that? Who has ever seen such a thing? Can a country be born in a day? Can a nation be created in a moment? But as soon as Zion goes into labor, her people increase their numbers." 
Isaiah66:9 Zion, would I bring you to the moment of birth and not let it happen?"" says the Lord. ""Would I close up a mother's body when it is time for her baby to be born?"" says your God." 
Isaiah66:10 Be glad along with Jerusalem, all you who love her. Be filled with joy because of her. Take great delight in her, all you who sob over her." 
Isaiah66:11 You will nurse at her comforting breasts. And you will be satisfied. You will drink until you are full. And you will delight in her rich and plentiful supply. 
Isaiah66:12 The Lord continues, ""I will cause peace to flow over her like a river. I will make the wealth of nations sweep over her like a flooding stream. You will nurse and be carried in her arms. You will play on her lap." 
Isaiah66:13 As a mother comforts her child, I will comfort you. You will find comfort in Jerusalem.""" 
Isaiah66:14 When you see that happen, your hearts will be filled with joy. Just as grass grows quickly, you will succeed. The Lord will show his power to those who serve him. But he will pour out his anger on his enemies." 
Isaiah66:15 The Lord will judge them with fire. His chariots are coming like a windstorm. He will pour out his burning anger on his enemies. It will blaze out like flames of fire. 
Isaiah66:16 The Lord will bring everyone into court. He will use fire and his sword to punish those he finds guilty. He will put many people to death. 
Isaiah66:17 Some people set themselves apart and make themselves pure. They do it so they can go into the gardens to worship other gods. They do what the worship leader tells them to do. They eat the meat of pigs and rats. They also eat other things I hate. All of those people will come to a horrible end,"" announces the Lord." 
Isaiah66:18 They have done many evil things. And they plan to do even more. So I will come and gather the people of every nation and language. They will see my glory when I act. 
Isaiah66:19 I will do a miracle among them. I will send to the nations some of those who are left alive. I will send some of them to the people of Tarshish, Libya and Lydia, who are famous for using bows. I will send others to Tubal and Greece. And I will send still others to islands far away. The people who live there have not heard about my fame. They have not seen my glory. Those I send will tell the nations about my glory when I act." 
Isaiah66:20 And they will bring back all of the people of Israel from all of those nations. They will bring them to my holy mountain in Jerusalem. My people will ride on horses, mules and camels. They will come in chariots and wagons,"" says the Lord. ""Those messengers will bring my people as an offering to me. They will bring them to my temple, just as the Israelites bring their grain offerings in bowls that are 'clean.'" 
Isaiah66:21 And I will choose some of them to be priests and Levites,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:22 I will make new heavens and a new earth. And they will last forever,"" announces the Lord. ""In the same way, your name and your children after you will last." 
Isaiah66:23 Everyone will come and bow down to me. They will do it at every New Moon Feast and on every Sabbath day,"" says the Lord." 
Isaiah66:24 When they go out of Jerusalem, they will see the dead bodies of those who refused to obey me. The worms that eat the bodies will not die. The fire that burns them will not be put out. It will make everyone sick just to look at them.""" 
Jeremiah1:1 These are the words Jeremiah received from the Lord. He was the son of Hilkiah. Jeremiah was one of the priests at Anathoth. That's a town in the territory of Benjamin. 
Jeremiah1:2 A message came to Jeremiah from the Lord. It came in the 13th year that Josiah was king over Judah. Josiah was the son of Amon. 
Jeremiah1:3 The Lord's message also came to Jeremiah during the whole time Jehoiakim was king over Judah. Jehoiakim was the son of Josiah. The Lord continued to speak to Jeremiah until the fifth month of the 11th year that Zedekiah was king over Judah. That's when the people of Jerusalem were forced to leave their country. Zedekiah was the son of Josiah. Here is what Jeremiah said. 
Jeremiah1:4 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah1:5 Before I formed you in your mother's body I chose you. Before you were born I set you apart to serve me. I appointed you to be a prophet to the nations. 
Jeremiah1:6 You are my Lord and King,"" I said. ""I don't know how to speak. I'm only a child.""" 
Jeremiah1:7 But the Lord said to me, ""Do not say, 'I'm only a child.' You must go to everyone I send you to. You must say everything I command you to say." 
Jeremiah1:8 Do not be afraid of the people I send you to. I am with you. I will save you,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah1:9 Then the Lord reached out his hand. He touched my mouth and spoke to me. He said, ""I have put my words in your mouth." 
Jeremiah1:10 Today I am appointing you to speak to nations and kingdoms. I want you to pull them up by the roots and tear them down. I want you to destroy them and crush them. But I also want you to build them up and plant them. 
Jeremiah1:11 A message came to me from the Lord. He asked me, ""What do you see, Jeremiah?"" ""The branch of an almond tree,"" I replied." 
Jeremiah1:12 The Lord said to me, ""You have seen correctly. I am watching to see that my word comes true.""" 
Jeremiah1:13 Another message came to me from the Lord. He asked me, ""What do you see?"" ""A pot that has boiling water in it,"" I answered. ""It's leaning toward us from the north.""" 
Jeremiah1:14 The Lord said to me, ""Something very bad will be poured out on everyone who lives in this land. It will come from the north." 
Jeremiah1:15 I am about to send for all of the armies in the northern kingdoms,"" announces the Lord. ""Their kings will come to Jerusalem. They will set up their thrones at the very gates of the city. They will attack all of the walls that surround the city. They will go to war against all of the towns of Judah." 
Jeremiah1:16 I will judge my people. They have done many evil things. They have deserted me. They have burned incense to other gods. They have worshiped the gods their own hands have made. 
Jeremiah1:17 So get ready! Stand up! Tell them everything I command you to. Do not let them terrify you. If you do, I will terrify you in front of them." 
Jeremiah1:18 Today I have made you like a city that has a high wall around it. I have made you like an iron pillar and a bronze wall. Now you can stand up against the whole land. You can stand against the kings and officials of Judah. You can stand against its priests and its people. 
Jeremiah1:19 They will fight against you. But they will not overcome you. I am with you. I will save you,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah2:2 Go. Announce my message to the people in Jerusalem. I want everyone to hear it. Tell them, "" 'I remember how faithful you were to me when you were young. You loved me as if you were my bride. You followed me through the desert. Nothing had been planted there." 
Jeremiah2:3 Your people were holy to me. They were the first share of my harvest. All those who destroyed them were held guilty. And trouble came to their enemies,' "" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:4 People of Jacob, hear the Lord's message. Listen, all you tribes of Israel." 
Jeremiah2:5 The Lord says, ""What did your people find wrong with me? Why did they wander so far away from me? They worshiped worthless statues of gods. Then they themselves became worthless." 
Jeremiah2:6 They did not ask, 'Where is the Lord? He brought us up out of Egypt. He led us through a dry and empty land. He guided us through deserts and deep valleys. It was a land of darkness where there wasn't any rain. No one lived or traveled there.'" 
Jeremiah2:7 But I brought you into a land that has rich soil. I gave you its fruit and its finest food. In spite of that, you polluted my land. You turned it into something I hate." 
Jeremiah2:8 The priests did not ask, 'Where is the Lord?' Those who taught my law did not know me. The leaders refused to obey me. The prophets prophesied in the name of Baal. They worshiped worthless statues of gods." 
Jeremiah2:9 So I am bringing charges against you again,"" announces the Lord. ""And I will bring charges against your children's children." 
Jeremiah2:10 Go over to the coasts of the western nations and look. Send people to the land of Kedar and have them look closely. See if there has ever been anything like this. 
Jeremiah2:11 Has a nation ever changed its gods? Actually, they are not even gods at all. But my people have traded away their glorious God. They have traded me for worthless statues of gods." 
Jeremiah2:12 Sky above, be shocked over that. Tremble with horror,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:13 My people have sinned twice. They have deserted me, even though I am the spring of water that gives life. And they have dug their own wells. But those wells are broken. They can't hold any water." 
Jeremiah2:14 Are you people of Israel servants? You were not born as slaves, were you? Then why have you been carried off like stolen goods?" 
Jeremiah2:15 Lions have roared. They have growled at you. They have destroyed your land. Your towns are burned and deserted. 
Jeremiah2:16 The men of Memphis and Tahpanhes have shaved your heads to dishonor you. 
Jeremiah2:17 Haven't you brought that on yourselves? I am the Lord your God, but you deserted me. You left me even while I was leading you." 
Jeremiah2:18 Why do you go to Egypt to drink water from the Shihor River? Why do you go to Assyria to drink from the Euphrates River? 
Jeremiah2:19 You will be punished because you have sinned. You will be corrected for turning away from me. I am the Lord your God. If you desert me, bad things will happen to you. If you do not respect me, you will suffer bitterly. I want you to understand that,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Jeremiah2:20 Long ago you broke off the yoke I put on you. You tore off the ropes I tied you up with. You said, 'I won't serve you!' In fact, on every high hill you lay down like a prostitute. You worshiped other gods under every green tree." 
Jeremiah2:21 You were like a good vine when I planted you. You were a healthy plant. Then how did you turn against me? How did you become a bad, wild vine?" 
Jeremiah2:22 You might wash yourself with baking soda. You might use plenty of soap. But I can still see the stains your guilt covers you with,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Jeremiah2:23 You say, 'I am ""clean."" I haven't followed the gods that are named after Baal.' How can you say that? Remember how you acted in the valley. Consider what you have done. You are like a female camel running quickly here and there." 
Jeremiah2:24 You are like a wild donkey that lives in the desert. She smells the wind when she longs for a mate. Who can hold her back? The males that run after her do not need to wear themselves out. At mating time they will easily find her. 
Jeremiah2:25 Do not run after other gods until your sandals are worn out and your throat is dry. But you said, 'It's no use! I love those gods. I must go after them.'" 
Jeremiah2:26 A thief is dishonored when he is caught. And you people of Israel are filled with shame. Your kings and officials are dishonored. So are your priests and your prophets. 
Jeremiah2:27 You say to a piece of wood, 'You are my father.' You say to a stone, 'You are my mother.' You have turned your backs to me. You refuse to look at me. But when you are in trouble, you say, 'Come and save us!'" 
Jeremiah2:28 So where are the gods you made for yourselves? Let them come when you are in trouble! Let them save you if they can! Judah, you have as many gods as you have towns." 
Jeremiah2:29 Why do you bring charges against me? All of you have refused to obey me,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah2:30 I punished your people. But it did not do them any good. They did not pay attention when they were corrected. You have killed your prophets with swords. You have swallowed them up like a hungry lion. 
Jeremiah2:31 You who are now living, consider my message. I am saying, ""Have I been like a desert to Israel? Have I been like a land of deep darkness? Why do my people say, 'We are free to wander. We won't come to you anymore'?" 
Jeremiah2:32 Does a young woman forget all about her jewelry? Does a bride forget her wedding jewels? But my people have forgotten me more days than anyone can count. 
Jeremiah2:33 You are very skilled at chasing after love! Even the worst of women can learn from how you act. 
Jeremiah2:34 The blood of those you have killed is on your clothes. You have destroyed poor people who were not guilty. You did not catch them in the act of breaking in. In spite of all of that," 
Jeremiah2:35 you say, 'I'm not guilty of doing anything wrong. The Lord isn't angry with me.' But I will judge you. That is because you say, 'I haven't sinned.'" 
Jeremiah2:36 Why do you keep on changing your ways so much? Assyria did not help you. And Egypt will not help you either. 
Jeremiah2:37 So you will also leave Egypt with your hands tied together above your heads. I have turned my back on those you trust. They will not help you. 
Jeremiah3:1 Suppose a man divorces his wife. What if she then gets married to another man? Should her first husband return to her again? If he does, won't the land become completely 'unclean'? People of Israel, you have lived like a prostitute. You have loved many other gods. So do you think you can return to me now?"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah3:2 Look up at the bare hilltops. Is there any place where you have not committed adultery with other gods? By the side of the road you sat waiting for lovers. You sat there like someone who wanders in the desert. You have polluted the land. You are like a sinful prostitute. 
Jeremiah3:3 So I have held the showers back. I have kept the spring rains from falling. But you still have the bold face of a prostitute. You refuse to blush with shame. 
Jeremiah3:4 You have just now called out to me. You said, 'My Father, you have been my friend ever since I was young." 
Jeremiah3:5 Will you always be angry with me? Will your anger continue forever?' That is how you talk. But you do all of the evil things you can. 
Jeremiah3:6 During the time Josiah was king, the Lord spoke to me. He said, ""Have you seen what the people of Israel have done? They have not been faithful to me. They have committed adultery with other gods. They worshiped them on every high hill and under every green tree." 
Jeremiah3:7 I thought that after they had done all of those things, they would return to me. But they did not. Their sister nation Judah saw it. And they were not faithful to me either." 
Jeremiah3:8 I gave Israel their letter of divorce. I sent them away because they were unfaithful to me so many times. But I saw that their sister nation Judah did not have any respect for me. They were not faithful to me either. They also went out and committed adultery with other gods. 
Jeremiah3:9 Israel was not faithful to me, but that did not bother them at all. They made the land 'unclean.' They worshiped gods that were made out of stone and wood." 
Jeremiah3:10 In spite of all that, their sister Judah did not come back to me. They were not faithful to me either. They did not return with all their heart. They only pretended to,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah3:11 The Lord said to me, ""Israel and Judah have not been faithful to me. But Israel was not as bad as Judah was." 
Jeremiah3:12 Go. Announce this message to the people in the north. Tell them, "" 'Israel, you have not been faithful,' announces the Lord. 'Return to me. Then I will look on you with favor again. My love is faithful,' announces the Lord. 'I will not be angry with you forever." 
Jeremiah3:13 Admit that you are guilty of doing what is wrong. You have refused to obey me. I am the Lord your God. You have committed adultery with other gods. You worshiped them under every green tree. And you have not obeyed me,' "" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah3:14 You people have not been faithful,"" announces the Lord. ""Return to me. I am your husband. I will choose one of you from each town. I will choose two from each territory. And I will bring you to the city of Zion." 
Jeremiah3:15 Then I will give you shepherds who are dear to my heart. Their knowledge and understanding will help them lead you. 
Jeremiah3:16 In those days your numbers will increase greatly in the land,"" announces the Lord. ""Then people will not talk about the ark of the covenant of the Lord anymore. It will never enter their minds. They will not remember it. The ark will not be missed. And another one will not be made." 
Jeremiah3:17 At that time they will call Jerusalem The Throne of the Lord. All of the nations will gather together there. They will go there to honor me. They will no longer do what their stubborn and evil hearts want them to do. 
Jeremiah3:18 In those days the people of Judah will join the people of Israel. Together they will come from a land in the north. They will come to the land I gave to your people long ago. I wanted them to have it as their very own. 
Jeremiah3:19 I myself said, "" 'I would gladly treat you like my children. I would give you a pleasant land. It is the most beautiful land any nation could have.' I thought you would call me 'Father.' I hoped you would always follow me." 
Jeremiah3:20 But you people are like a woman who is not faithful to her husband. Israel, you have not been faithful to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah3:21 A cry is heard on the bare hilltops. The people of Israel are sobbing and praying. That's because their lives are so twisted. They've forgotten the Lord their God. 
Jeremiah3:22 You have not been faithful,"" says the Lord. ""Return to me. I will heal you. Then you will not turn away from me anymore."" ""Yes,"" the people say. ""We will come to you. You are the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah3:23 The gods we worship on the hills and mountains are useless. You are the Lord our God. You are the only one who can save us. 
Jeremiah3:24 From our earliest years shameful gods have eaten up everything our people worked for. They have eaten up our flocks and herds. They've destroyed our sons and daughters. 
Jeremiah3:25 Let us lie down in our shame. Let our dishonor cover us. You are the Lord our God. But we have sinned against you. We and our people before us have sinned. We haven't obeyed you from our earliest years until now. 
Jeremiah4:1 If you will return, Israel, return to me,"" announces the Lord. ""Put the statues of your gods out of my sight. I hate them. Stop going down the wrong path." 
Jeremiah4:2 Take all of your oaths in my name. Say, 'You can be sure that the Lord is alive.' Let all of your promises be truthful, fair and honest. Then I will bless the nations. And they will take delight in me.""" 
Jeremiah4:3 Here is what the Lord is telling the people of Judah and Jerusalem. He says, ""Your hearts are as hard as a field that has not been plowed. So change your ways and produce good crops. Do not plant seeds among thorns." 
Jeremiah4:4 People of Judah and Jerusalem, obey me. Do not let your hearts be stubborn. If you do, my anger will blaze out against you. It will burn like fire because of the evil things you have done. No one will be able to put it out." 
Jeremiah4:5 Announce my message in Judah. Tell it in Jerusalem. Say, 'Blow trumpets all through the land!' Give a loud shout and say, 'Gather together! Let's run to cities that have high walls around them!'" 
Jeremiah4:6 Warn everyone to go to Zion! Run for safety! Do not wait! I am bringing trouble from the north. Everything will be totally destroyed. 
Jeremiah4:7 Lions have come out of their den. Those who destroy nations have begun to march out. They have left their place to destroy your land completely. Your towns will be broken to pieces. No one will live in them. 
Jeremiah4:8 So put on black clothes. Sob and cry over what has happened. The Lord hasn't turned his burning anger away from us. 
Jeremiah4:9 A dark day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""The king and his officials will lose hope. The priests will be shocked. And the prophets will be terrified.""" 
Jeremiah4:10 Then I said, ""You are my Lord and King. You have completely tricked the people of Judah and Jerusalem. You have told them, 'You will have peace and rest.' But swords are pointed at our throats.""" 
Jeremiah4:11 At that time the people of Judah and Jerusalem will be warned. They will be told, ""A hot and dry wind is coming, my people. It is blowing toward you from the bare hilltops in the desert. But it does not separate straw from grain." 
Jeremiah4:12 It is much too strong for that. The wind is coming from me. I am making my decision against you. 
Jeremiah4:13 Look! Our enemies are approaching like the clouds. Their chariots are coming like a strong wind. Their horses are faster than eagles. How terrible it will be for us! We'll be destroyed! 
Jeremiah4:14 People of Jerusalem, wash your sins from your hearts and be saved. How long will you hold on to your evil thoughts?" 
Jeremiah4:15 A voice is speaking all the way from the city of Dan. From the hills of Ephraim it announces that trouble is coming. 
Jeremiah4:16 Tell the nations. Warn Jerusalem. Say, 'An army will attack you. It is coming from a land far away. It will shout a war cry against the cities of Judah." 
Jeremiah4:17 It will surround them like people who guard a field. Judah has refused to obey me,' "" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah4:18 The army will attack you because of your conduct and actions. That is how you will be punished. It will be so bitter! It will cut deep down into your hearts! 
Jeremiah4:19 I'm suffering! I'm really suffering! I'm hurting badly. My heart is suffering so much! It's pounding inside me. I can't keep silent. I've heard the sound of trumpets. I've heard the battle cry. 
Jeremiah4:20 One trouble follows another. The whole land is destroyed. In an instant my tents are gone. My home disappears in a moment. 
Jeremiah4:21 How long must I look at our enemy's battle flag? How long must I hear the sound of the trumpets? 
Jeremiah4:22 The Lord says, ""My people are foolish. They do not know me. They are children who do not have any sense. They have no understanding at all. They are skilled in doing what is evil. They do not know how to do what is good.""" 
Jeremiah4:23 I looked at the earth. It didn't have any shape. And it was empty. I looked at the sky. Its light was gone. 
Jeremiah4:24 I looked at the mountains. They were shaking. All of the hills were swaying. 
Jeremiah4:25 I looked. And there weren't any people. Every bird in the sky had flown away. 
Jeremiah4:26 I looked. And the fruitful land had become a desert. All of its towns were destroyed. The Lord had done all of that because of his burning anger. 
Jeremiah4:27 The Lord says, ""The whole land will be destroyed. But I will not destroy it completely." 
Jeremiah4:28 So the earth will be filled with sadness. The sky above will grow dark. I have spoken, and I will not take pity on them. I have made my decision, and I will not change my mind.""" 
Jeremiah4:29 People can hear the sound of horsemen. Men who are armed with bows are coming. The people in every town run away. Some of them go into the bushes. Others climb up among the rocks. All of the towns are deserted. No one is living in them. 
Jeremiah4:30 What are you doing, you who are destroyed? Why do you dress yourself in bright red clothes? Why do you put on jewels of gold? Why do you put makeup on your eyes? You make yourself beautiful for no reason at all. Your lovers hate you. They are trying to kill you." 
Jeremiah4:31 I hear a cry like the cry of a woman having a baby. I hear a groan like someone having her first child. It's the cry of the people of Zion struggling to breathe. They reach out their hands and say, ""Help us! We're fainting! Murderers are about to kill us!""" 
Jeremiah5:1 The Lord says, ""Go up and down the streets of Jerusalem. Look around. Think about what you see. Search through the market places. See if you can find one honest person who tries to be truthful. If you can, I will forgive this city." 
Jeremiah5:2 They take all of their oaths in my name. They say, 'You can be sure that the Lord is alive.' But their oaths can't be trusted.""" 
Jeremiah5:3 Lord, don't your eyes look for truth? You struck your people down. But they didn't feel any pain. You crushed them. But they refused to be corrected. They made their faces harder than stone. They refused to turn away from their sins." 
Jeremiah5:4 I thought, ""The people of Jerusalem are foolish. They don't know how the Lord wants them to live. They don't know what their God requires of them." 
Jeremiah5:5 So I will go to the leaders. I'll speak to them. They should know how the Lord wants them to live. They must know what their God requires of them. But all of them had broken off the yoke the Lord had put on them. They had torn off the ropes he had tied them up with. 
Jeremiah5:6 So a lion from the forest will attack them. A wolf from the desert will destroy them. A leopard will hide and wait near their towns. It will tear to pieces anyone who dares to go out. Again and again they have refused to obey the Lord. They have turned away from him many times. 
Jeremiah5:7 The Lord says, ""Jerusalem, why should I forgive you? Your people have deserted me. They have taken their oaths in the names of gods that are not really gods at all. I supplied everything they needed. But they committed adultery. Large crowds went to the houses of prostitutes." 
Jeremiah5:8 Your people are like stallions that have plenty to eat. Their sinful longings are out of control. Each of them goes after another man's wife. 
Jeremiah5:9 Shouldn't I punish them for that? announces the Lord. Shouldn't I pay back the nation that does those things? 
Jeremiah5:10 Armies of Babylonia, go through their vineyards and destroy them. But do not destroy them completely. Strip off their branches. Those people do not belong to me." 
Jeremiah5:11 The people of Israel and Judah have not been faithful to me at all,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah5:12 They have told lies about the Lord. They said, ""He won't do anything! No harm will come to us. We will never see war or be hungry." 
Jeremiah5:13 The prophets are nothing but wind. Their message doesn't come from the Lord. So let what they say will happen be done to them. 
Jeremiah5:14 The Lord God rules over all. He says to me, ""The people have spoken those words. So my words will be like fire in your mouth. I will make the people like wood. And the fire will burn them up.""" 
Jeremiah5:15 People of Israel, listen to me,"" announces the Lord. ""I am bringing against you a nation from far away. It is an old nation. And it will last for a long time. Its people speak a language you do not know. You can't understand what they are saying." 
Jeremiah5:16 The bags they carry their arrows in are like an open grave. All of their soldiers are mighty. 
Jeremiah5:17 They will eat up your crops and your food. They will strike down your sons and daughters. They will kill your sheep and cattle. They will destroy your vines and fig trees. You trust in your cities that have high walls around them. But the people in them will be killed with swords. 
Jeremiah5:18 In spite of that, even in those days I will not destroy you completely,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah5:19  'Jeremiah,' the people will ask, 'Why has the Lord our God done all of this to us?' ""Then you will tell them, 'You have deserted the Lord. You have served other gods in your own land. So now you will serve another nation in a land that is not your own.'" 
Jeremiah5:20 Here is what I want you to announce to the people of Jacob. Tell it in Judah. Tell them I say," 
Jeremiah5:21 'Listen to this, you foolish people, who do not have any sense. You have eyes, but you do not see. You have ears, but you do not hear." 
Jeremiah5:22 Shouldn't you have respect for me?' announces the Lord. 'Shouldn't you tremble with fear in front of me? I made the sand to hold the ocean back. It will do that forever. The ocean can't go past it. The waves might roll, but they can't sweep over it. They might roar, but they can't go across it." 
Jeremiah5:23 But you people have stubborn hearts. You refuse to obey me. You have turned away from me. You have gone down the wrong path. 
Jeremiah5:24 You do not say to yourselves, ""Let us have respect for the Lord our God. He sends rain in the fall and the spring. He promises us that the harvest will come at the same time each year.""" 
Jeremiah5:25 But the things you have done wrong have robbed you of those gifts. Your sins have kept those good things far away from you.' 
Jeremiah5:26 Jeremiah, some of my people are evil. They hide and wait just as people hide to catch birds. They set traps for men." 
Jeremiah5:27 A hunter uses tricks to fill his cage with birds. And my people have filled their houses with a lot of goods. They have become rich and powerful. 
Jeremiah5:28 They have grown fat and heavy. There is no limit to the evil things they do. In court they do not state the case of children whose fathers have died. They do not stand up for poor people. 
Jeremiah5:29 Shouldn't I punish them for that? announces the Lord. Shouldn't I pay back the nation that does those things? 
Jeremiah5:30 Something horrible and shocking has happened in the land. 
Jeremiah5:31 The prophets prophesy lies. The priests rule by their own authority. And my people love it that way. But what will they do in the end? 
Jeremiah6:1 The Lord says, ""People of Benjamin, run for safety! Run away from Jerusalem! Blow trumpets in Tekoa! Warn everyone in Beth Hakkerem! Horrible trouble is coming from the north. The Babylonians will destroy everything with awful power." 
Jeremiah6:2 I will destroy the city of Zion, even though it is very beautiful." 
Jeremiah6:3 Shepherds will come against it with their flocks. They will set up their tents around it. All of them will take care of their own sheep. 
Jeremiah6:4 The Babylonians say, ""Prepare for battle against Judah! Get up! Let's attack them at noon! But the daylight is fading. The shadows of evening are getting longer." 
Jeremiah6:5 So get up! Let's attack them at night! Let's destroy their strongest forts! 
Jeremiah6:6 The Lord who rules over all speaks to the Babylonians. He says, ""Cut some trees down. Use the wood to build ramps against Jerusalem's walls. I must punish that city. It is filled with people who treat others badly." 
Jeremiah6:7 Wells keep giving fresh water. And Jerusalem keeps on sinning. Its people are always fighting and causing trouble. When I look at them, I see nothing but sickness and wounds." 
Jeremiah6:8 Jerusalem, listen to my warning. If you do not, I will turn away from you. Your land will become a desert. No one will be able to live there.""" 
Jeremiah6:9 The Lord rules over all. He says to me, ""People gather the few grapes that are left on a vine. So let Israel's enemies gather the few people who are left alive in the land. Look carefully at the branches again. Do it like someone who gathers the last few grapes.""" 
Jeremiah6:10 Who can I speak to? Who can I warn? Who will even listen to me? Their ears are closed so they can't hear. The Lord's message displeases them. They don't take any delight in it. 
Jeremiah6:11 But the Lord's anger burns inside me. I can no longer hold it in. The Lord says to me, ""Pour out my anger on the children in the street. Pour it out on the young people who are gathered together. Husband and wife alike will be caught in it. So will those who are very old." 
Jeremiah6:12 I will reach out my hand against those who live in the land,"" announces the Lord. ""Then their houses will be turned over to others. So will their fields and their wives." 
Jeremiah6:13 Everyone wants to get richer and richer, from the least important of them to the most important. Prophets and priests alike try to fool everyone they can." 
Jeremiah6:14 They bandage the wounds of my people as if they were not very deep. 'Peace, peace,' they say. But there isn't any peace." 
Jeremiah6:15 Are they ashamed of their hateful actions? No. They do not feel any shame at all. They do not even know how to blush. So they will fall like others who have already fallen. They will be brought down when I punish them,"" says the Lord." 
Jeremiah6:16 The Lord tells the people of Judah, ""Stand where the roads cross, and look around. Ask where the old paths are. Ask for the good path, and walk on it. Then your hearts will find rest in me. But you said, 'We won't walk on it.'" 
Jeremiah6:17 I appointed prophets to warn you. I said, 'Listen to the sound of the trumpets!' But you said, 'We won't listen.'" 
Jeremiah6:18 So pay attention, you nations. Be witnesses for me. Watch what will happen to my people." 
Jeremiah6:19 Earth, pay attention. I am going to bring trouble on them. I will punish them because of the evil things they have done. They have not listened to my words. They have said no to my law." 
Jeremiah6:20 What do I care about incense from the land of Sheba? Why should I bother with sweet-smelling cane from a land far away? I do not accept your burnt offerings. Your sacrifices do not please me. 
Jeremiah6:21 So the Lord says, ""I will bring an army against the people of Judah. Parents and children alike will trip and fall. Neighbors and friends will die.""" 
Jeremiah6:22 The Lord says to Jerusalem, ""Look! An army is coming from the land of the north. I am stirring up a great nation. Its army is coming from a land that is very far away." 
Jeremiah6:23 Its soldiers are armed with bows and spears. They are mean. They do not show any mercy at all. They come riding in on their horses. They sound like the roaring ocean. They are lined up for battle. They are marching out to attack you, city of Zion.""" 
Jeremiah6:24 We have heard reports about them. And our hands can't help us. We are suffering greatly. It's like the pain of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah6:25 Don't go out to the fields. Don't walk on the roads. Our enemies have swords. And there is terror on every side. 
Jeremiah6:26 Put on black clothes, my people. Roll among the ashes. Cry with bitter sobbing just as you would cry for an only child. The one who is going to destroy us will come suddenly." 
Jeremiah6:27 The Lord says to me, ""I have made you like one who tests metals. My people are the ore. I want you to watch them and test the way they live." 
Jeremiah6:28 All of them are used to disobeying me. They go around telling lies about others. They are like bronze mixed with iron. All of them do very sinful things. 
Jeremiah6:29 The fire is made very hot so the lead will burn away. But it is impossible to make those people pure. Those who are evil are not removed. 
Jeremiah6:30 They are like silver that is thrown away. That is because I have not accepted them. 
Jeremiah7:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah7:2 Stand at the gate of my house. Announce my message to the people there. Say, "" 'Listen to the Lord's message, all of you people of Judah. You always come through these gates to worship the Lord." 
Jeremiah7:3 The God of Israel is speaking to you. He is the Lord who rules over all. He says, ""Change the way you live and act. Then I will let you live in this place." 
Jeremiah7:4  ' Do not trust in lies. Do not say, 'This is the temple of the Lord! This is the temple of the Lord! This is the temple of the Lord!'" 
Jeremiah7:5  ' You must really change the way you live and act. Treat each other fairly. 
Jeremiah7:6 Do not treat outsiders or widows badly in this place. Do not take advantage of children whose fathers have died. Do not kill those who are not guilty of doing anything wrong. Do not worship other gods. That will only bring harm to you. 
Jeremiah7:7  ' If you obey me, I will let you live in this place. It is the land I gave your people who lived long ago. It was promised to them for ever and ever." 
Jeremiah7:8  ' But look! You are trusting in worthless lies. 
Jeremiah7:9  ' You continue to steal and commit murder. You commit adultery and tell lies. You burn incense to Baal. You worship other gods you have not known anything about before. 
Jeremiah7:10  ' Then you come and stand in front of me. You keep coming to this house where I have put my Name. You say, 'We are safe.' You think you are safe when you do so many things I hate." 
Jeremiah7:11 My Name is in this house. But you have made it a den for robbers! I have been watching you! announces the Lord. 
Jeremiah7:12  ' Go now to the town of Shiloh. Go to the place where I first made a home for my Name. See what I did to it because of the evil things my people Israel were doing. 
Jeremiah7:13  ' I spoke to you again and again,"" announces the Lord. ""I warned you while you were doing all of those things. But you did not listen. I called out to you. But you did not answer." 
Jeremiah7:14 So what I did to Shiloh I will now do to the house where my Name is. It is the temple you trust in. It is the place I gave to you and your people of long ago. 
Jeremiah7:15  ' But I will throw you out of my land. That is exactly what I did to the people of Ephraim. And they are your relatives. ' 
Jeremiah7:16 Jeremiah, do not pray for those people. Do not make any appeal or request for them. Do not beg me. I will not listen to you." 
Jeremiah7:17 Don't you see what they are doing? They are worshiping other gods in the towns of Judah. They are offering sacrifices to them in the streets of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah7:18 The children go out and gather wood. The fathers light the fire. The women mix the dough. They make flat cakes of bread for the goddess who is called the Queen of Heaven. They pour out drink offerings to other gods. That makes me very angry. 
Jeremiah7:19 But am I the one they are hurting? announces the Lord. Aren't they only harming themselves? They should be ashamed of it. 
Jeremiah7:20 So the Lord and King says, ""I will pour out my burning anger on this place. It will strike people and animals alike. It will destroy the trees and the crops in the fields. It will burn, and no one will be able to put it out.""" 
Jeremiah7:21 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Go ahead! Add your burnt offerings to your other sacrifices. Eat the meat yourselves!" 
Jeremiah7:22 When I brought your people out of Egypt, I spoke to them. But I did not just give them commands about burnt offerings and sacrifices." 
Jeremiah7:23 I also gave them another command. I said, 'Obey me. Then I will be your God. And you will be my people. Live the way I command you to live. Then things will go well with you.'" 
Jeremiah7:24 But they did not listen. They refused to pay any attention to me. Instead, they did what their stubborn and evil hearts wanted them to do. They went backward and not forward." 
Jeremiah7:25 Again and again I sent my servants the prophets to you. They came to you day after day. They prophesied from the time your people left Egypt until now. 
Jeremiah7:26 But the people did not listen. They refused to pay any attention to me. They were stubborn. They did more evil things than their people who lived before them. 
Jeremiah7:27 Jeremiah, when you tell them all of that, they will not listen to you. When you call out to them, they will not answer." 
Jeremiah7:28 So say to them, 'You are a nation that has not obeyed the Lord your God. You did not pay attention when you were corrected. Truth has died out. You do not tell the truth anymore.' """ 
Jeremiah7:29 The Lord says to the people of Jerusalem, ""Cut off your hair. Throw it away. Sing a song of sadness on the bare hilltops. I am very angry with you. I have turned my back on you. I have deserted you." 
Jeremiah7:30 The people of Judah have done what is evil in my eyes,"" announces the Lord. ""They have set up statues of their gods. They have worshiped them in the house where my Name is. They have made my house 'unclean.' I hate those statues." 
Jeremiah7:31 The people have built the high places of Topheth in the Valley of Ben Hinnom. There they worship other gods. And there they sacrifice their children in the fire. That is something I did not command. It did not even enter my mind. 
Jeremiah7:32 So watch out! announces the Lord. The days are coming when people will not call it Topheth anymore. And they will not call it the Valley of Ben Hinnom either. Instead, they will call it the Valley of Death. They will bury the dead bodies of some people in Topheth. But they will run out of room." 
Jeremiah7:33 Then they will not be able to bury the bodies of other people there. So the bodies will become food for the birds of the air and the wild animals. And no one will scare them away. 
Jeremiah7:34 I will put an end to the sounds of joy and gladness. The voices of brides and grooms will not be heard anymore. There will not be any sounds of joy in the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem. The land will become a desert. 
Jeremiah8:1 At that time the tombs will be opened,"" announces the Lord. ""The bones of the kings and officials of Judah will be brought out. The bones of the priests and prophets will be removed. So will the bones of the people of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah8:2 They will lie outside under the sun, moon and all of the stars. ""All of those people had loved and served those things. They had followed them and worshiped them. They had asked them for advice. So the bones of those people will not be gathered up or buried again. Instead, they will be like trash lying there on the ground." 
Jeremiah8:3 Everyone who is left alive in this evil nation will want to die rather than live. That is what they will long for in the lands where I force them to go,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Jeremiah8:4 Jeremiah, tell them, 'The Lord says, "" ' ""When people fall down, don't they get up again? When someone turns away, doesn't he come back?" 
Jeremiah8:5 Then why have the people of Jerusalem turned away from me? Why do they always turn away? They keep on telling lies. They refuse to come back to me. 
Jeremiah8:6 I have listened carefully. But they do not say what is right. They refuse to turn away from their sins. No one says, 'What have I done?' All of them go their own way. They are like horses charging into battle." 
Jeremiah8:7 Storks know when to fly south. So do doves, swifts and thrushes. But my people do not know what I require them to do." 
Jeremiah8:8  ' How can you people say, 'We are wise. We have the law of the Lord'? Actually, the teachers of the law have told lies about it. Their pens have not written what is true." 
Jeremiah8:9 Those who think they are wise will be put to shame. They will become terrified. They will be trapped. They have not accepted my message. So what kind of wisdom do they have? 
Jeremiah8:10 I will give their wives to other men. I will give their fields to new owners. Everyone wants to get richer and richer, from the least important of them to the most important. Prophets and priests alike try to fool everyone they can." 
Jeremiah8:11 They bandage the wounds of my people as if they were not very deep. 'Peace, peace,' they say. But there isn't any peace." 
Jeremiah8:12 Are they ashamed of their hateful actions? No. They do not feel any shame at all. They do not even know how to blush. So they will fall like others who have already fallen. They will be brought down when I punish them,"" says the Lord." 
Jeremiah8:13  ' I will take away their harvest,"" announces the Lord. ""There will not be any grapes on the vines. The trees will not bear any figs. The leaves on the trees will dry up. What I have given them will be taken away from them."" ' """ 
Jeremiah8:14 Why are we sitting here? Let's gather together! Let's run to the cities that have high walls around them! Let's die there! The Lord our God has sentenced us to death. He has given us poisoned water to drink. That's because we've sinned against him. 
Jeremiah8:15 We hoped peace would come. But nothing good has happened to us. We hoped we would finally be healed. But all we got was terror. 
Jeremiah8:16 When our enemy's horses snort, the noise is heard all the way from Dan. When their stallions neigh, the whole land trembles with fear. They have come to destroy the land and everything in it. The city and everyone who lives there will be destroyed." 
Jeremiah8:17 People of Judah, I will send poisonous snakes among you. No one will be able to charm them. And they will bite you,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah8:18 Lord, my heart is weak inside me. You comfort me when I'm sad." 
Jeremiah8:19 Listen to the cries of my people from a land far away. They cry out, ""Isn't the Lord in Zion? Isn't its King there anymore?"" The Lord says, ""Why have they made me so angry by worshiping their wooden gods? Why have they made me angry with their worthless statues of gods from other lands?""" 
Jeremiah8:20 The people say, ""The harvest is over. The summer has ended. And we still haven't been saved.""" 
Jeremiah8:21 My people are crushed, so I am crushed. I sob, and I am filled with horror." 
Jeremiah8:22 Isn't there any healing lotion in Gilead? Isn't there a doctor there? Then why doesn't someone heal the wounds of my people? 
Jeremiah9:1 I wish my head were a spring of water! I wish my eyes were a fountain of tears! I would sob day and night over my people who have been killed. 
Jeremiah9:2 I wish I had somewhere to go in the desert where a traveler could stay! Then I could leave my people. I could get away from them. All of them commit adultery by worshiping other gods. They aren't faithful to the Lord. 
Jeremiah9:3 They get ready to use their tongues like bows,"" announces the Lord. ""Their mouths shoot out lies like arrows. They tell lies to gain power in the land. They go from one sin to another. They do not pay any attention to me." 
Jeremiah9:4 Be on guard against your friends. Do not trust the members of your own family. Every one of them cheats. Every friend tells lies. 
Jeremiah9:5 One friend cheats another. No one tells the truth. They have taught their tongues how to lie. They wear themselves out sinning. 
Jeremiah9:6 Jeremiah, you live among people who tell lies. When they lie, they refuse to pay any attention to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah9:7 So the Lord who rules over all says, ""I will put them through the fire to test them. What else can I do? My people are so sinful!" 
Jeremiah9:8 Their tongues are like deadly arrows. They tell lies. With their mouths all of them speak kindly to their neighbors. But in their hearts they set traps for them. 
Jeremiah9:9 Shouldn't I punish them for that? announces the Lord. Shouldn't I pay back the nation that does those things? 
Jeremiah9:10 I will cry and sob over the fields in the hills. I will sing a song of sadness about the desert grasslands. They are dry and empty. No one travels through them. The mooing of cattle isn't heard there. The birds of the air have flown away. All of the animals are gone. 
Jeremiah9:11 The Lord says, ""I will knock all of Jerusalem's buildings down. I will make it a home for wild dogs. The towns of Judah will be completely destroyed. No one will be able to live in them.""" 
Jeremiah9:12 Who is wise enough to understand those things? Who has been taught by the Lord? Who can explain them? Why has the land been destroyed so completely? Why has it become like a desert that no one can go across? 
Jeremiah9:13 The Lord answered me, ""Because my people have turned away from my law. I gave it to them. But they have not kept it. They have not obeyed me." 
Jeremiah9:14 Instead, they have done what their stubborn hearts wanted them to do. They have worshiped the gods that are named after Baal. They have done what their people have taught them to do down through the years.""" 
Jeremiah9:15 So now the Lord who rules over all speaks. He is the God of Israel. He says, ""I will make these people eat bitter food. I will make them drink poisoned water." 
Jeremiah9:16 I will scatter them among the nations. They and their people before them have not had anything to do with those nations before. I will chase these people with swords. I will hunt them down until I have destroyed them. 
Jeremiah9:17 The Lord rules over all. He says, ""Here is something I want you to think about. Send for the women who sob over the dead. Send for the most skilled among them.""" 
Jeremiah9:18 Let them come quickly and sob over us. Let them cry until tears flow from our eyes. Let them sob until water pours out of our eyes. 
Jeremiah9:19 People are heard sobbing in Zion. They are saying, ""We are destroyed! We are filled with shame! We must leave our land. Our houses have been torn down.""" 
Jeremiah9:20 Women, hear the Lord's message. Listen to what he's saying. Teach your daughters how to sob over the dead. Teach one another a song of sadness." 
Jeremiah9:21 Death has climbed in through our windows. It has entered our forts. It has removed the children from the streets. It has taken the young people out of the market places. 
Jeremiah9:22 Say, ""The Lord announces, "" 'The dead bodies of men will be like trash lying in the open fields. They will lie there like grain that is cut down at harvest time. No one will gather them up.' """ 
Jeremiah9:23 The Lord says, ""Do not let a wise man brag about how wise he is. Do not let a strong man boast about how strong he is. Do not let a rich person brag about how rich he is." 
Jeremiah9:24 But here is what the one who brags should boast about. He should brag that he has understanding and knows me. I want him to know that I am the Lord. No matter what I do on earth, I am always kind, fair and right. And I take delight in that,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah9:25 The days are coming when I will judge people,"" announces the Lord. ""I will punish all those who are circumcised only in their bodies." 
Jeremiah9:26 That includes the people of Egypt, Judah, Edom, Ammon and Moab. It also includes all those who live in the desert in places far away. None of the people in those nations is really circumcised. And not even the people of Israel are circumcised in their hearts.""" 
Jeremiah10:1 People of Israel, listen to what the Lord is telling you." 
Jeremiah10:2 He says, ""Do not follow the practices of other nations. Do not be terrified by warnings in the sky. Do not be afraid, even though the nations are terrified by them." 
Jeremiah10:3 The practices of those nations are worthless. People cut a tree out of the forest. A skilled worker shapes the wood with a sharp tool. 
Jeremiah10:4 Others decorate it with silver and gold. They use a hammer to nail it to the floor. They want to keep it from falling down. 
Jeremiah10:5 The statues of their gods can't speak. They are like scarecrows in a field of melons. They have to be carried around because they can't walk. So do not worship them. They can't do you any harm. And they can't do you any good either. 
Jeremiah10:6 Lord, no one is like you. You are great. You are mighty and powerful." 
Jeremiah10:7 King of the nations, everyone should have respect for you. That's what people should give you. Among all of the wise people in the nations there is no one like you. No one can compare with you in all of their kingdoms." 
Jeremiah10:8 All of them are foolish. They don't have any sense. They think they are taught by worthless wooden gods. 
Jeremiah10:9 Hammered silver is brought from Tarshish. Gold is brought from Uphaz. People who are skilled in working with wood and gold make a statue. Then they put blue and purple clothes on it. The whole thing is made by skilled workers. 
Jeremiah10:10 But you are the only true God. You are the only living God. You are the King who rules forever. When you are angry, the earth trembles with fear. The nations can't stand up under your anger." 
Jeremiah10:11 The Lord says to the Jews who are living in Babylonia, ""Tell the people of the nations, 'Your gods did not make the heavens and the earth. In fact, those gods will disappear from the earth. They will vanish from under the heavens.' """ 
Jeremiah10:12 But God used his power to make the earth. His wisdom set the world in place. His understanding spread the heavens out. 
Jeremiah10:13 When he thunders, the waters in the heavens roar. He makes clouds rise from one end of the earth to the other. He sends lightning along with the rain. He brings the wind out from his storerooms." 
Jeremiah10:14 No one has any sense. No one knows anything at all. Everyone who works with gold is put to shame by his wooden gods. The metal gods he worships are fakes. They can't even breathe. 
Jeremiah10:15 They are worthless. People make fun of them. When the Lord judges them, they will be destroyed." 
Jeremiah10:16 The God of Jacob is not like them. He gives his people everything they need. He made everything that exists. And that includes Israel. It's the nation that belongs to him. His name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. 
Jeremiah10:17 People of Jerusalem, your enemies have surrounded you. They are attacking you. So gather up what belongs to you. Then leave the land." 
Jeremiah10:18 The Lord says, ""I am about to throw out of this land everyone who lives in it. I will bring trouble on them. They will be captured.""" 
Jeremiah10:19 How terrible it will be for me! I've been wounded! And my wound can't be healed! In spite of that, I said to myself, ""I'm sick. But I'll have to put up with it.""" 
Jeremiah10:20 Jerusalem is like a tent that has been destroyed. All of its ropes have snapped. My people have gone away from me. Now no one is left to set up my tent. I have no one to set it up for me. 
Jeremiah10:21 The leaders of my people are like shepherds who don't have any sense. They don't ask the Lord for advice. That's why they don't succeed. And that's why their whole flock is scattered like sheep. 
Jeremiah10:22 Listen! A message is coming! I hear the sound of a great army marching down from the north! It will turn Judah's towns into a desert. They will become a home for wild dogs. 
Jeremiah10:23 Lord, I know that a man doesn't control his own life. He doesn't direct his own steps." 
Jeremiah10:24 Correct me, Lord. But please be fair. Don't correct me when you are angry. If you do, nothing will be left of me." 
Jeremiah10:25 Pour out your burning anger on the nations. They don't pay any attention to you. They refuse to worship you. They have destroyed the people of Jacob. They've wiped them out completely. They've also destroyed the land they lived in. 
Jeremiah11:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah11:2 Listen to the terms of the covenant I made with my people long ago. Tell Judah the terms still apply to them. Tell those who live in Jerusalem that they must obey them too. 
Jeremiah11:3 I am the God of Israel. So let the people know what I want them to do. Tell them I am saying, 'May the man who does not obey the terms of the covenant be under my curse." 
Jeremiah11:4 I gave those terms to your people long ago. That was when I brought them out of Egypt. I saved them out of that furnace that melts iron down and makes it pure.' I said, 'Obey me. Do everything I command you to do. Then you will be my people. And I will be your God." 
Jeremiah11:5  'I raised my hand and made an oath to your people long ago. I promised them I would give them a land that had plenty of milk and honey.' It is the land you own today. I kept my promise. I replied, ""Amen, Lord.""" 
Jeremiah11:6 The Lord said to me, ""Here is what I want you to announce in the towns of Judah. Say it also in the streets of Jerusalem. Tell the people, 'Listen to the terms of my covenant. Obey them." 
Jeremiah11:7 Long ago I brought your people up from Egypt. From that time until today, I warned them again and again. I said, ""Obey me.""" 
Jeremiah11:8  'But they did not listen. They did not pay any attention to me. Instead, they did what their stubborn and evil hearts wanted them to do. So I brought down on them all of the curses of the covenant. I commanded them to obey it. But they refused.' """ 
Jeremiah11:9 The Lord continued, ""The people of Judah have made some evil plans. So have those who live in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah11:10 All of them have returned to the sins their people committed long ago. Those people refused to listen to what I told them. And now the people of Israel and Judah alike have worshiped other gods and served them. They have broken the covenant I made with their people who lived before them. 
Jeremiah11:11 So I say, 'I will bring trouble on them. They will not be able to escape it. They will cry out to me. But I will not listen to them." 
Jeremiah11:12  'The people of Jerusalem and of the towns of Judah will cry out to the gods they burn incense to. But those gods will not help them at all when trouble strikes them. 
Jeremiah11:13 Judah, you have as many gods as you have towns. And in Jerusalem you have set up as many altars as there are streets. You are burning incense to that shameful god Baal.'" 
Jeremiah11:14 Jeremiah, do not pray for those people. Do not make any appeal or request for them. They will call out to me when they are in trouble. But I will not listen to them." 
Jeremiah11:15 I love the people of Judah. But they are working out their evil plans along with many others. So what are they doing in my temple? Can meat that is offered to me keep me from punishing you? When you do evil things, you get a lot of pleasure from them.""" 
Jeremiah11:16 People of Judah, the Lord once called you a healthy olive tree. He thought its fruit was beautiful. But now he will come with the roar of a mighty storm. He will set the tree on fire. And its branches will be broken." 
Jeremiah11:17 The Lord who rules over all planted you. But now he has ordered your enemies to destroy you. The people of Israel and Judah have done what is evil. They have made the Lord very angry by burning incense to Baal. 
Jeremiah11:18 The Lord told me about the evil plans of my enemies. That's how I knew about them. He showed me what they were doing. 
Jeremiah11:19 I had been like a gentle lamb that was led off to be killed. I didn't realize they had made plans against me. They had said, ""Let's destroy the tree and its fruit. Let's cut him off while he's still living. Then his name won't be remembered anymore.""" 
Jeremiah11:20 But Lord, you rule over all. You always judge fairly. You put people's hearts and minds to the test. So pay them back for what they've done. I've committed my cause to you." 
Jeremiah11:21 The Lord says, ""Jeremiah, here is what I am telling you about the men of Anathoth. They want to kill you. They are saying, 'Don't prophesy in the Lord's name. If you do, we will kill you with our own hands.' """ 
Jeremiah11:22 So the Lord who rules over all says, ""I will punish them. Their young men will be killed with swords. Their sons and daughters will die of hunger." 
Jeremiah11:23 Only a few people will be left alive. I will judge the men of Anathoth. I will destroy them when the time to punish them comes. 
Jeremiah12:1 Lord, when I bring a matter to you, you always do what is right. But now I would like to speak with you about whether you are being fair. Why are sinful people successful? Why do those who can't be trusted have an easy life?" 
Jeremiah12:2 You have planted them. Their roots are deep in the ground. They grow and produce fruit. They honor you by what they say. But their hearts are far away from you. 
Jeremiah12:3 Lord, you know me and see me. You test my thoughts about you. Drag those people off like sheep to be killed! Set them apart for the day of their death!" 
Jeremiah12:4 How long will the land be thirsty for water? How long will the grass in every field be dry? The people who live in the land are evil. So the animals and birds have died. And that's not all. The people are saying, ""The Lord won't see what happens to us.""" 
Jeremiah12:5 The Lord says, ""Suppose you have run in a race with other men. And suppose they have worn you out. Then how would you be able to race against horses? Suppose you feel safe only in open country. Then how would you get along in the bushes near the Jordan River?" 
Jeremiah12:6 Even your own family has turned against you. They have shouted loudly at you. They might say nice things about you. But do not trust them. 
Jeremiah12:7 I will turn my back on my people. I will desert my land. I love the people of Judah. In spite of that, I will hand them over to their enemies." 
Jeremiah12:8 My land has become to me like a lion in the forest. It roars at me. So I hate it. 
Jeremiah12:9 My own land has become like a spotted hawk. And other hawks surround it and attack it. Come, all of you wild animals! Gather together! Come together to eat up my land." 
Jeremiah12:10 Many shepherds will destroy my vineyard. They will walk all over it. They will turn my pleasant vineyard into a dry and empty land. 
Jeremiah12:11 My vineyard will become a desert. It will be dry and empty in my sight. The whole land will be completely destroyed. And no one even cares. 
Jeremiah12:12 Many will come to destroy it. They will gather on the bare hilltops in the desert. I will use them as my sword to destroy my people. They will kill them from one end of the land to the other. No one will be safe. 
Jeremiah12:13 People will plant wheat. But all they will gather is thorns. They will wear themselves out. But they will not have anything to show for it. My anger is burning against you. So you will be ashamed of the crop you gather. 
Jeremiah12:14 The Lord continues, ""All of my evil neighbors have taken over the land I gave my people Israel. So I will pull them up by their roots from the lands they live in. And I will pull up the roots of the people of Judah from among them." 
Jeremiah12:15 But after I pull those nations up, I will show my tender love to them again. I will bring all of them back to their own lands. I will take all of them back to their own countries." 
Jeremiah12:16 Suppose they learn to follow the practices of my people. And they take an oath and make a promise in my name. They say, 'You can be sure that the Lord is alive.' They do it just as they once taught my people to take oaths in Baal's name. Then I will give them a place among my people." 
Jeremiah12:17 But what if one of those nations does not listen? Then you can be sure I will pull it up by the roots and destroy it,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah13:1 The Lord said to me, ""Go and buy a linen belt. Put it around your waist. But do not let it get wet.""" 
Jeremiah13:2 So I bought a belt, just as the Lord had told me to do. And I put it around my waist." 
Jeremiah13:3 Then another message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah13:4 Take off the belt you bought and are wearing around your waist. Go to Perath. Hide the belt there in a crack in the rocks. 
Jeremiah13:5 So I went and hid it at Perath. I did just as the Lord had told me to do. 
Jeremiah13:6 Many days later the Lord spoke to me again. He told me, ""Go to Perath. Get the belt I told you to hide there.""" 
Jeremiah13:7 So I went to Perath. I dug up the belt. I took it from the place where I had hidden it. But it had rotted. It was completely useless. 
Jeremiah13:8 Then another message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah13:9 In the same way, I will destroy Judah's pride. And I will destroy the great pride of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah13:10 Those people are evil. They refuse to listen to what I say. They do what their stubborn hearts want them to do. They chase after other gods. They serve them and worship them. So they will be like this belt. They will be completely useless. 
Jeremiah13:11 A belt is tied around a man's waist. In the same way, I tied all of the people of Israel and Judah to me,"" announces the Lord. ""I wanted them to be my people. They should have brought me fame and praise and honor. But they have not listened to me." 
Jeremiah13:12 Tell them, 'The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, ""Every wineskin should be filled with wine."" ' ""The people might say to you, 'Don't we know that every wineskin should be filled with wine?'" 
Jeremiah13:13 If they do, tell them, 'The Lord says, ""I am going to fill with wine everyone who lives in this land. I will make the kings who sit on David's throne drunk. And I will fill with wine the priests, the prophets and everyone who lives in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah13:14 I will smash them against one another. I will punish parents and children alike,"" announces the Lord. ""I will not feel sorry for them. I will not show them any kindness. My tender love for them will not keep me from destroying them."" ' """ 
Jeremiah13:15 People of Judah, listen to me. Pay attention. Don't be proud. The Lord has spoken." 
Jeremiah13:16 Give glory to the Lord your God. Honor him before he sends darkness to cover the land. Do it before you trip and fall on the darkened hills. You hope that light will come. But he will turn it into thick darkness. He will change it to deep shadows. 
Jeremiah13:17 If you don't listen, I will sob in secret. Because you are so proud, I will sob bitterly. Tears will flow from my eyes. The Lord's flock will be taken away as prisoners." 
Jeremiah13:18 Speak to the king and his mother. Tell them, ""Come down from your thrones. Your glorious crowns are about to fall from your heads.""" 
Jeremiah13:19 The gates of the cities in the Negev Desert will be shut tight. There won't be anyone to open them. You will be carried away as prisoners. You will be taken away completely. 
Jeremiah13:20 Jerusalem, look up! Your enemies are coming from the north. Where is the flock you were supposed to take care of? Where are the sheep you were so proud of?" 
Jeremiah13:21 You have worked hard to make special friends. But the Lord will let them rule over you. Then what will you say? Suffering will take hold of you. It will be like the pain of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah13:22 Suppose you ask yourself, ""Why has this happened to me?"" It's because you have committed so many sins. That's the reason your skirt has been torn off. That's why your body has been treated so badly." 
Jeremiah13:23 Can people from Ethiopia change their skin? Can leopards change their spots? It's the same with you. You have always done what is evil. So how can you do what is good? 
Jeremiah13:24 The Lord says, ""I will scatter you like straw that the desert wind blows away." 
Jeremiah13:25 That is what will happen to you. I have appointed it for you,"" announces the Lord. ""You have forgotten me. You have trusted in other gods." 
Jeremiah13:26 So I will pull your skirt up over your face. Then people will see the shame of your naked body. 
Jeremiah13:27 They will see that you have not been faithful to me. You have committed adultery with other gods. And you have acted like a prostitute who does not have any shame. I have seen what you did on the hills and in the fields. And I hate it. How terrible it will be for you, Jerusalem! How long will you choose to be 'unclean'?""" 
Jeremiah14:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He told me there wouldn't be any rain in the land. He said," 
Jeremiah14:2 Judah is filled with sadness. Its cities are wasting away. The people sob over the land. Crying is heard in Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah14:3 The nobles send their servants to get water. They go to the wells. But they do not find any water. They return with empty jars. They are terrified. They do not have any hope. They cover their heads. 
Jeremiah14:4 The ground is dry and cracked. There isn't any rain in the land. The farmers are terrified. They cover their heads. 
Jeremiah14:5 Even the does in the fields desert their newborn fawns. There isn't any grass to eat. 
Jeremiah14:6 Wild donkeys stand on the bare hilltops. They long for water as wild dogs do. Their eyesight fails because they do not have any grass to eat. 
Jeremiah14:7 Our sins are a witness against us. Lord, do something for the honor of your name. We have completely turned away from you. We've sinned against you." 
Jeremiah14:8 You are Israel's only hope. You save us when we're in trouble. Why are you like a stranger to us? Why are you like a traveler who stays for only one night? 
Jeremiah14:9 Why are you like a man who is taken by surprise? Why are you like a soldier who can't save anyone? Lord, you are among us. And we are your people. Please don't desert us!" 
Jeremiah14:10 The Lord has given me a message about these people. He says, ""They really love to wander away from me. Their feet go down the wrong path. I do not accept these people. I will remember the evil things they have done. I will punish them for their sins.""" 
Jeremiah14:11 The Lord continued, ""Do not pray that things will go well with them." 
Jeremiah14:12 Even if they go without food, I will not listen to their cry for help. They might sacrifice burnt offerings and grain offerings. But I will not accept them. Instead, I will destroy them with war, hunger and plague.""" 
Jeremiah14:13 But I said, ""Lord and King, the prophets keep telling them something else. They say, 'You won't have to suffer from war or hunger. Instead, the Lord will give you peace and rest in this place.' """ 
Jeremiah14:14 Then the Lord said to me, ""The prophets are prophesying lies in my name. I have not sent them or appointed them. I have not even spoken to them. Everything they tell you about their visions or secret knowledge is a lie. They pretend to bring you messages from other gods. They try to get you to believe their own mistaken ideas." 
Jeremiah14:15 So here is what I am saying about the prophets who are prophesying in my name. I did not send them. But they are saying, 'No war or hunger will come to this land.' Those same prophets will die because of war and hunger." 
Jeremiah14:16 And the people they are prophesying to will be thrown out into the streets of Jerusalem. They will die because of hunger and war. No one will bury their bodies. No one will bury their wives or children. I will pour trouble out on them. That is exactly what they should get. 
Jeremiah14:17 Jeremiah, give them this message. Tell them, "" 'Let tears flow from my eyes. Let them pour out night and day. Never let them stop. The people of my own nation have suffered a terrible wound. They have been crushed." 
Jeremiah14:18 Suppose I go into the country. Then I see people who have been killed with swords. Or suppose I go into the city. Then I see people who have died of hunger. Prophet and priest alike have gone to a land they hadn't had anything to do with before.' 
Jeremiah14:19 Lord, have you turned your back on Judah completely? Do you hate the city of Zion? Why have you made us suffer? We can't be healed. We hoped peace would come. But nothing good has happened to us. We hoped we would finally be healed. But all we got was terror." 
Jeremiah14:20 Lord, we admit we've done evil things. We also admit that our people of long ago were guilty. It's true that we've sinned against you." 
Jeremiah14:21 For the honor of your name, don't turn your back on us. Don't bring shame on your glorious throne in the temple. Remember the covenant you made with us. Please don't break it." 
Jeremiah14:22 Do any of the worthless gods of the nations bring rain? Do the skies send down showers all by themselves? No. Lord our God, you send the rain. So we put our hope in you. You are the one who does all of those things." 
Jeremiah15:1 Then the Lord said to me, ""Suppose Moses and Samuel were standing in front of me. Even then my heart would not feel sorry for these people. Send them away from me! Let them go!" 
Jeremiah15:2 Suppose they ask you, 'Where should we go?' ""Then tell them, 'The Lord says, "" ' ""Those I have appointed to die will die. Those I have appointed to be killed with swords will be killed with swords. Those I have appointed to die of hunger will die of hunger. Those I have appointed to be taken away as prisoners will be taken away."" '" 
Jeremiah15:3 I will send four kinds of destroyers against them,"" announces the Lord. ""Swords will kill them. Dogs will drag them away. Birds of the air will eat them up. And wild animals will destroy them." 
Jeremiah15:4 I will make all of the kingdoms on earth hate them. That will happen because of what Manasseh did in Jerusalem. He was king of Judah and the son of Hezekiah. 
Jeremiah15:5 Jerusalem, who will have pity on you? Who will sob over you? Who will stop to ask how you are doing?" 
Jeremiah15:6 You have said no to me,"" announces the Lord. ""You keep on turning away from me. So I will destroy you with my own hands. I can't show you my tender love anymore." 
Jeremiah15:7 I will stand at the city gates of the land. I will separate the straw from the grain. I will destroy my people. I will bring great sorrow on them. They have not changed their ways. 
Jeremiah15:8 I will increase the number of their widows. They will be more than the grains of sand on the seashore. At noon I will bring a destroyer against the mothers of the young men among my people. All at once I will bring down on them great suffering and terror. 
Jeremiah15:9 Mothers who have many children will grow weak. They will take their last breath. The sun will set on them while it is still day. They will be dishonored and put to shame. All those who are left alive I will kill with swords. I will have their enemies do it,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah15:10 My mother, I wish I had never been born! The whole land opposes me. They fight against me. I haven't made loans to anyone. And I haven't borrowed anything. But everyone still calls down curses on me." 
Jeremiah15:11 The Lord said, ""Jeremiah, I will keep you safe for a good purpose. I will make your enemies ask you to pray for them. They will make their appeal to you when they are in great trouble." 
Jeremiah15:12 People of Judah, the armies of Babylonia will come from the north. They are as strong as iron and bronze. Can anyone break their power?" 
Jeremiah15:13 I will give away your wealth and your treasures. Your enemies will carry off everything. And they will not pay anything for it. That will happen because you have sinned so much. You have done it all through your country. 
Jeremiah15:14 I will make you slaves to your enemies. You will serve them in a land you have not had anything to do with before. My anger will start a fire that will burn you up. 
Jeremiah15:15 Lord, you understand how much I'm suffering. Show concern for me. Take care of me. Pay back those who are trying to harm me. You are patient. Don't take my life away from me. Think about how much shame I suffer because of you." 
Jeremiah15:16 When I received your words, I ate them. They filled me with joy. My heart took delight in them. Lord God who rules over all, I belong to you." 
Jeremiah15:17 I never sat around with those who go to wild parties. I never had a good time with them. I sat alone because you had put your powerful hand on me. Your anger against sin was burning inside me. 
Jeremiah15:18 Why does my pain never end? Why is my wound so deep? Why can't I ever get well? To me you are like a stream that runs dry. You are like a spring that doesn't have any water. 
Jeremiah15:19 So the Lord says, ""Turn away from your sins. Then I will heal you. And then you will be able to serve me. Speak words that are worthy, not worthless. Then you will be speaking for me. Let these people turn to you. But you must not turn to them." 
Jeremiah15:20 I will make you like a wall to them. I will make you like a strong bronze wall. The people will fight against you. But they will not overcome you. I am with you. I will save you,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah15:21 I will save you from the hands of evil people. I will set you free from those who treat you badly. 
Jeremiah16:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah16:2 You must not get married. You must not have any sons or daughters in this land. 
Jeremiah16:3 Here is the Lord's message about the children who are born in this place. He says about them and their parents," 
Jeremiah16:4 Some of them will die of deadly sicknesses. No one will sob over them. Their bodies will not be buried. Instead, they will be like trash lying there on the ground. Others will die because of war and hunger. Their bodies will not be buried. Instead, they will become food for the birds of the air and the wild animals.""" 
Jeremiah16:5 The Lord says, ""Jeremiah, do not enter a house where a meal is being served because someone has died. Do not go there to sob or to comfort the family. I will not bless these people anymore. I have taken my love and pity away from them,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah16:6 Important and ordinary people alike will die in this land. Their bodies will not be buried. No one will sob over them. No one will cut himself or shave his head because of them. 
Jeremiah16:7 No one will offer food or drink to comfort those who sob over the dead. No one will do it even if someone's father or mother has died. 
Jeremiah16:8 Do not enter a house where a big dinner party is being held. Do not sit down there to eat and drink. 
Jeremiah16:9 I am the Lord who rules over all. I am the God of Israel. I am telling you, 'In your days I will judge your people. You will see it with your own eyes. I will put an end to the sounds of joy and gladness here in Jerusalem. The voices of brides and grooms will not be heard anymore.'" 
Jeremiah16:10 Tell these people all of those things. They will ask you, 'Why has the Lord decided to send so much trouble on us? We haven't done anything wrong. We haven't committed any sins against the Lord our God.'" 
Jeremiah16:11 When they say that, tell them, 'I did it because your people of long ago deserted me,' announces the Lord. 'They followed other gods. They served them and worshiped them. They deserted me. They did not obey my law." 
Jeremiah16:12  'But you have done more evil things than they did. All of you are doing what your stubborn and evil hearts want you to do. You are not obeying me. 
Jeremiah16:13  'So I will throw you out of this land. I will send you away to a land that you and your people have not had anything to do with before. There you will serve other gods day and night. And I will not show you any favor.' 
Jeremiah16:14 But a new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time people will no longer say, 'The Lord brought the people of Israel up out of Egypt. And that's just as sure as he is alive.'" 
Jeremiah16:15 Instead, they will say, 'The Lord brought the people of Israel up out of the land of the north. He gathered them out of all of the countries where he had forced them to go. And that's just as sure as he is alive.' I will bring them back to the land I gave their people long ago." 
Jeremiah16:16 But now I will send for many fishermen,"" announces the Lord. ""They will catch some of these people. After that, I will send for many hunters. They will hunt the others down on every mountain and hill. They will bring them out of the cracks in the rocks." 
Jeremiah16:17 My eyes see everything these people do. What they do is not hidden from me. I always see their sin. 
Jeremiah16:18 I will pay them back double for their sin and the evil things they have done. They have made my land 'unclean.' They have set up lifeless statues of their evil gods. They have filled my land with them. I hate those gods. 
Jeremiah16:19 Lord, you give me strength. You are like a fort to me. When I'm in trouble, I go to you for safety. The nations will come to you from one end of the earth to the other. They will gather together and say, ""Our people of long ago didn't own anything except statues of gods. The statues were worthless. They didn't do them any good." 
Jeremiah16:20 Do men really make their own gods? Yes. But they aren't really gods at all! 
Jeremiah16:21 The Lord says, ""So I will teach them about myself. This time I will show them how powerful and mighty I am. Then they will know that I am the Lord." 
Jeremiah17:1 Judah's sin is carved with an iron tool. It is written with a sharp stone. It is carved on the tablets of their hearts. It is written on the horns that stick out from the corners of their altars. 
Jeremiah17:2 Even their children offer sacrifices to other gods on those altars. They use the poles that were made to worship the goddess Asherah. They worship strange gods beside the green trees and on the high hills. 
Jeremiah17:3 I will give away my holy Mount Zion to the Babylonians. Your enemies will carry off your wealth and all of your treasures. I will give away your high places. That will happen because you have sinned. You have done it all through your country. 
Jeremiah17:4 You will lose the land I gave you. And it will be your own fault. I will make you slaves to your enemies. You will serve them in a land you have not had anything to do with before. You have set my anger on fire. It will burn forever. 
Jeremiah17:5 The Lord says, ""Those who trust in man are under my curse. They depend on human strength. Their hearts turn away from me." 
Jeremiah17:6 They will be like a bush in a dry and empty land. They will not enjoy success when it comes. They will live in dry places in the desert. It is a land of salt where no one else lives. 
Jeremiah17:7 But I will bless any man who trusts in me. I will show my favor to the one who depends on me. 
Jeremiah17:8 He will be like a tree that is planted near water. It sends out its roots beside a stream. It is not afraid when heat comes. Its leaves are always green. It does not worry when there is no rain. It always bears fruit. 
Jeremiah17:9 A human heart is more dishonest than anything else. It can't be healed. Who can understand it? 
Jeremiah17:10 The Lord says, ""I look deep down inside human hearts. I see what is in people's minds. I reward a man in keeping with his conduct. I bless him based on what he has done.""" 
Jeremiah17:11 Some people get rich in the wrong way. They are like a partridge that hatches eggs it didn't lay. When their lives are half over, their riches will desert them. In the end they will prove how foolish they have been." 
Jeremiah17:12 Our temple is where the Lord's glorious throne is. From the beginning it has been high and lifted up. 
Jeremiah17:13 Lord, you are Israel's only hope. Everyone who deserts you will be put to shame. The names of those who turn away from you will be listed among the dead. Lord, they have deserted you. You are the spring of water that gives life." 
Jeremiah17:14 Lord, heal me. Then I will be healed. Save me from my enemies. Then I will be saved. You are the one I praise." 
Jeremiah17:15 They keep saying to me, ""What has happened to the message the Lord gave you? Let it come true right now!""" 
Jeremiah17:16 I haven't run away from being the shepherd of your people. You know I haven't wanted the day of Jerusalem's fall to come. You are aware of every word that comes from my lips. 
Jeremiah17:17 Don't be a terror to me. When I'm in trouble, I go to you for safety." 
Jeremiah17:18 Let those who attack me be put to shame. But keep me from shame. Let them be terrified. But keep me from terror. Bring the day of trouble on them. Destroy them once and for all. 
Jeremiah17:19 The Lord said to me, ""Go. Stand at the city gate where the people gather together. That is where the kings of Judah go in and out. Also go to all of the other gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:20 Say, 'Listen to the Lord's message, you kings of Judah and all of you people of Judah and Jerusalem. You always come through these gates." 
Jeremiah17:21  'The Lord says, ""Make sure you do not carry a load on the Sabbath day. Do not bring it through the gates of Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah17:22 Do not bring a load out of your houses on the Sabbath. Do not do any work on that day. Instead, keep the Sabbath day holy. Do as I commanded your people long ago." 
Jeremiah17:23 But they did not listen. They did not pay any attention to me. They were stubborn. They would not listen or pay attention when I corrected them. 
Jeremiah17:24  ' Be careful to obey me,"" announces the Lord. ""Do not bring a load through the gates of this city on the Sabbath. Instead, keep the Sabbath day holy. Do not do any work on it." 
Jeremiah17:25  ' Then kings who sit on David's throne will come through the gates of this city. They and their officials will come riding in chariots and on horses. The people of Judah and Jerusalem will come along with them. And this city will always have people living in it. 
Jeremiah17:26 Some will come from the towns of Judah. And some will come in from the villages around Jerusalem. Others will come from the territory of Benjamin. And others will come in from the western hills. Still others will come from the central hill country and the Negev Desert. All of them will bring burnt offerings and sacrifices. They will come bringing grain offerings, incense and thank offerings. They will take all of those offerings to my house." 
Jeremiah17:27  ' But what if you do not obey me? Suppose you do not keep the Sabbath day holy. And suppose you carry a load through the gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath. Then I will start a fire that can't be put out. It will begin at the gates of Jerusalem. It will destroy its mighty towers. ' 
Jeremiah18:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah18:2 Go down to the potter's house. I will give you my message there. 
Jeremiah18:3 So I went down to the potter's house. I saw him working at his wheel. 
Jeremiah18:4 His hands were shaping a pot out of clay. But he saw that something was wrong with it. So he formed it into another pot. He shaped it in the way that seemed best to him. 
Jeremiah18:5 Then the Lord's message came to me. He said," 
Jeremiah18:6 People of Israel, I can do with you just as this potter does,"" announces the Lord. ""The clay is in the potter's hand. And you are in my hand, people of Israel." 
Jeremiah18:7 Suppose at any time I announce that a nation or kingdom is going to be pulled up by the roots. And I tell it that it will be torn down and destroyed. 
Jeremiah18:8 But suppose the nation I warned turns away from its sins. Then I will not do what I said I would. I will not bring trouble on it as I had planned. 
Jeremiah18:9 Suppose at another time I announce that a nation or kingdom is going to be built up and planted. 
Jeremiah18:10 But it does what is evil in my sight. It does not obey me. Then I will think again about the good things I had wanted to do for it. 
Jeremiah18:11 So speak to the people of Judah and Jerusalem. Tell them, 'The Lord says, ""Look! I am making plans against you. I am going to bring trouble on you. So each one of you must turn from your evil ways. Change the way you live and act."" '" 
Jeremiah18:12 But they will reply, 'It's no use. We will continue to do what we've already planned. All of us will do what our stubborn and evil hearts want us to do.' """ 
Jeremiah18:13 So the Lord says, ""Ask the nations a question. Say to them, 'Who has ever heard anything like this? The people of Israel have done a very horrible thing." 
Jeremiah18:14 Does the snow ever disappear from Lebanon's rocky slopes? Do its cool waters ever stop flowing from places far away? 
Jeremiah18:15 But my people have forgotten me. They burn incense to worthless gods. Their gods made them trip and fall as they walked on the old paths. They made them use side roads instead of roads that were built up. 
Jeremiah18:16 So their land will be completely destroyed. People will make fun of it again and again. All those who pass by it will be shocked. They will shake their heads. 
Jeremiah18:17 I will sweep over my people like a wind from the east. I will use the Babylonians to scatter them. I will show them my back and not my face. I will desert them when their day of trouble comes.' 
Jeremiah18:18 They said, ""Come on. Let's make plans against Jeremiah. We'll still have priests to teach us the law. We'll always have wise people to give us advice. We'll have prophets to bring us messages from the Lord. So come on. Let's speak out against Jeremiah. We shouldn't pay any attention to what he says.""" 
Jeremiah18:19 Lord, please listen to me! Hear what my enemies are saying about me!" 
Jeremiah18:20 Should the good things I've done be paid back with evil? But my enemies have dug a pit for me. Remember that I stood in front of you and spoke up for them. I tried to turn your anger away from them. 
Jeremiah18:21 So let their children die of hunger. Let my enemies be killed in war. Let their wives lose their children and husbands. Let their men be put to death. Let their young men be killed in battle. 
Jeremiah18:22 Bring their enemies against them without warning. Let cries be heard from their houses. They have dug a pit to capture me. They have hidden traps for my feet. 
Jeremiah18:23 But Lord, you know all about their plans to kill me. Don't forgive their crimes. Don't erase their sins from your sight. Destroy my enemies. Punish them when the time to show your anger comes." 
Jeremiah19:1 The Lord said to me, ""Go and buy a clay jar from a potter. Take along some of the elders of the people. Also tell some of the priests to go with you." 
Jeremiah19:2 Go out to the Valley of Ben Hinnom. Stand near the entrance of the gate where broken pieces of pottery are thrown away. There announce the message I give you. 
Jeremiah19:3 Tell the people, 'Listen to the Lord's message, you kings of Judah and people of Jerusalem. The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Listen! I am going to bring trouble on Jerusalem. It will be so horrible that it will make the ears of everyone who hears about it ring." 
Jeremiah19:4  ' My people have deserted me. They have made this city a place where other gods are worshiped. They have burned sacrifices to them here. They and their people and the kings of Judah had never had anything to do with those gods before. My people have also filled this place with the blood of those who are not guilty of anything. 
Jeremiah19:5 They have built the high places where they worship Baal. There they sacrifice their children in the fire as offerings to Baal. That is something I did not command or talk about. It did not even enter my mind. 
Jeremiah19:6  ' So watch out! announces the Lord. The days are coming when people will not call this place Topheth anymore. And they will not call it the Valley of Ben Hinnom either. Instead, they will call it the Valley of Death." 
Jeremiah19:7  ' In this place I will make the plans of Judah and Jerusalem as useless as a broken jar. I will use their enemies to kill my people with swords. They will die at the hands of those who want to take their lives. I will give their dead bodies as food to the birds of the air and the wild animals. 
Jeremiah19:8  ' I will destroy this city completely. People will make fun of it. All those who pass by it will be shocked. They will laugh at its people because of all of their wounds. 
Jeremiah19:9 I will make the people of this city eat the dead bodies of their sons and daughters. And they will eat one another. They will do it because things will be so bad during the attack. The enemies who want to take their lives will bring all of that trouble on them. ' 
Jeremiah19:10 Jeremiah, break the jar while those who go with you are watching." 
Jeremiah19:11 Tell them, 'The Lord who rules over all says, ""This potter's jar is smashed and can't be repaired. And I will smash this nation and this city. People will bury their dead in Topheth. But they will run out of room." 
Jeremiah19:12 Here is what I will do to Jerusalem and those who live here,"" announces the Lord. ""I will make this city like Topheth." 
Jeremiah19:13 The houses in Jerusalem will be made 'unclean' like Topheth. So will the houses of the kings of Judah. All of those people burned incense on their roofs to all of the stars. They poured out drink offerings to other gods. ' 
Jeremiah19:14 Then I returned from Topheth. That's where the Lord had sent me to prophesy. I stood in the courtyard of the Lord's temple. I spoke to all of the people. I said," 
Jeremiah19:15 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'Listen! I am going to punish this city and the villages that are around it. I am going to bring against them all of the trouble I have announced. That is because my people were stubborn. They would not listen to what I said.' """ 
Jeremiah20:1 The priest Pashhur was chief officer in the Lord's temple. He was the son of Immer. Pashhur heard me prophesying that Jerusalem would be destroyed. 
Jeremiah20:2 So he had me beaten. Then he put me in prison at the Upper Gate of Benjamin at the Lord's temple. 
Jeremiah20:3 The next day Pashhur set me free. I said to him, ""The Lord's name for you isn't Pashhur. It's Magor-Missabib. That name means Terror on Every Side." 
Jeremiah20:4 The Lord says to you, 'I will make you a terror to yourself. You will also be a terror to all of your friends. With your own eyes you will see them die. Their enemies will kill them with swords. I will hand all of the people of Judah over to the king of Babylonia. He will carry them away to Babylonia or kill them with swords." 
Jeremiah20:5  'I will hand all of the wealth of this city over to Judah's enemies. I will give them all of its products and everything of value. I will turn over to them all of the treasures that belonged to the kings of Judah. They will take those things and carry them off to Babylon. 
Jeremiah20:6  'Pashhur, you and everyone who lives in your house will also be forced to go there. You have prophesied lies to all of your friends. So all of you will die in Babylonia. And that's where your bodies will be buried.' """ 
Jeremiah20:7 Lord, you tricked me, and I was tricked. You overpowered me and won. People make fun of me all day long. Everyone laughs at me." 
Jeremiah20:8 Every time I speak, I cry out. All you ever tell me to talk about is fighting and trouble. Your message has brought me nothing but dishonor. It has made me suffer shame all day long." 
Jeremiah20:9 Sometimes I think, ""I won't talk about him anymore. I'll never speak in his name again."" But then your message burns in my heart. It's like a fire inside my very bones. I'm tired of holding it in. In fact, I can't." 
Jeremiah20:10 I hear many people whispering, ""There is terror on every side! Report Jeremiah! Let's report him to the authorities!"" All of my friends are waiting for me to slip. They are saying, ""Perhaps he will be tricked into making a mistake. Then we'll win out over him. We'll get even with him.""" 
Jeremiah20:11 But you are with me like a mighty warrior. So those who are trying to harm me will trip and fall. They won't win out over me. They will fail. They'll be totally put to shame. Their dishonor will never be forgotten. 
Jeremiah20:12 Lord, you rule over all. You test those who do what is right. You see what is in people's hearts and minds. So pay them back for what they've done. I've committed my cause to you." 
Jeremiah20:13 Sing to the Lord, you people! Give praise to him! He saves the lives of those who are in need. He saves them from the powerful hands of sinful people." 
Jeremiah20:14 May the day I was born be under a curse! May the day I was born to my mother not be blessed! 
Jeremiah20:15 May the man who brought my father the news be under a curse! He's the one who made my father very glad. He said, ""You have had a baby! It's a boy!""" 
Jeremiah20:16 May that man be like the towns the Lord destroyed without pity. May that man hear loud sobs in the morning. May he hear a battle cry at noon. 
Jeremiah20:17 He should have killed me in my mother's body. He should have made my mother my grave. He should have let her body stay large forever. 
Jeremiah20:18 Why did I ever come out of my mother's body? I've seen nothing but trouble and sorrow. My days will end in shame. 
Jeremiah21:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It came when King Zedekiah sent Pashhur to me. Pashhur was the son of Malkijah. Zedekiah sent the priest Zephaniah along with him. Zephaniah was the son of Maaseiah. They said to me," 
Jeremiah21:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It came when King Zedekiah sent Pashhur to me. Pashhur was the son of Malkijah. Zedekiah sent the priest Zephaniah along with him. Zephaniah was the son of Maaseiah. They said to me," 
Jeremiah21:2 Ask the Lord to help us. Nebuchadnezzar is attacking us. He is king of Babylonia. In the past the Lord did wonderful things for us. Maybe he'll do them again. Then Nebuchadnezzar will pull his armies back from us. 
Jeremiah21:3 But I answered them, ""Tell Zedekiah and his people," 
Jeremiah21:4 'The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, ""The king of Babylonia and his armies are all around this city. They are getting ready to attack you. You have weapons of war in your hands to fight against them. But I am about to turn your weapons against you. And I will bring your enemies inside this city." 
Jeremiah21:5  ' I myself will fight against you. I will reach out my powerful hand and mighty arm. I will come against you with all of my burning anger. 
Jeremiah21:6 I will strike down those who live in this city. I will kill people and animals alike. They will die of a terrible plague. 
Jeremiah21:7  ' After that, I will hand you over to your enemies who want to kill you,"" announces the Lord. ""I will hand over Zedekiah, the king of Judah. I will hand over his officials and the people in this city who live through the plague, war and hunger. All of them will be turned over to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. He will kill them with swords. He will not show them any kindness. He will not feel sorry for them. In fact, he will not have any concern for them at all."" '" 
Jeremiah21:8 Tell the people, 'The Lord says, ""I am offering you a choice. You can choose the way that leads to life. Or you can choose the way that leads to death." 
Jeremiah21:9 Those who stay in this city will die of war, hunger or plague. But those who go out and give themselves up to the Babylonians who are attacking you will live. They will escape with their lives." 
Jeremiah21:10  ' I have decided to do this city harm and not good,"" announces the Lord. ""It will be handed over to the king of Babylonia. And he will destroy it with fire."" '" 
Jeremiah21:11 Also speak to Judah's royal family. Tell them, 'Listen to the Lord's message." 
Jeremiah21:12 The Lord says to you who belong to David's royal house, "" ' ""Every morning do what is right and fair. Save those who have been robbed. Set them free from the people who have treated them badly. If you do not, my anger will blaze out against you. It will burn like fire because of the evil things you have done. No one will be able to put it out." 
Jeremiah21:13 Jerusalem, I am against you,"" announces the Lord. ""You live above this valley. You are on a high, rocky flatland. And you say, 'Who can come against us? Who can enter our place of safety?'" 
Jeremiah21:14 But I will punish you in keeping with what you have done,"" announces the Lord. ""I will start a fire in your forests. It will burn up everything around you."" ' """ 
Jeremiah22:1 The Lord said to me, ""Jeremiah, go down to the palace of the king of Judah. Announce my message there. Tell him," 
Jeremiah22:2 'King of Judah, listen to the Lord's message. You are sitting on David's throne. You and your officials and your people come through these gates." 
Jeremiah22:3 The Lord says, ""Do what is fair and right. Save those who have been robbed. Set them free from the people who have treated them badly. Do not do anything wrong to outsiders or widows in this place. Do not harm children whose fathers have died. Do not kill those who are not guilty of doing anything wrong." 
Jeremiah22:4  ' Be careful to obey those commands. Then kings who sit on David's throne will come through the gates of this palace. They will come riding in chariots and on horses. Their officials and their people will come along with them. 
Jeremiah22:5  ' But suppose you do not obey those commands,"" announces the Lord. ""Then I promise you that this palace will be destroyed. I make that promise by taking an oath in my own name."" ' """ 
Jeremiah22:6 The Lord speaks about the palace of the king of Judah. He says, ""You are like the land of Gilead to me. You are like the highest mountain in Lebanon. But I will make you like a desert. You will become like towns that no one lives in." 
Jeremiah22:7 I will send destroyers against you. All of them will come with their weapons. They will cut up your fine cedar beams. They will throw them into the fire. 
Jeremiah22:8 People from many nations will pass by this city. They will ask one another, 'Why has the Lord done such a thing to this great city?'" 
Jeremiah22:9 And the answer will be, 'Because its people have turned away from the covenant the Lord their God made with them. They have worshiped other gods. And they have served them.' """ 
Jeremiah22:10 Don't sob over dead King Josiah. Don't be sad because he's gone. Instead, sob bitterly over King Jehoahaz. He was forced to leave his country. He will never return. He'll never see his own land again." 
Jeremiah22:11 Jehoahaz became king of Judah after his father Josiah. But he has gone away from this place. That's because the Lord says about him, ""He will never return." 
Jeremiah22:12 He will die in Egypt. That is where he was taken as a prisoner. He will not see this land again. 
Jeremiah22:13 The Lord says, ""How terrible it will be for King Jehoiakim! He builds his palace by mistreating his people. He builds its upstairs rooms with money that was gained by sinning. He makes his own people work for nothing. He does not pay them for what they do." 
Jeremiah22:14 He says, 'I will build myself a great palace. It will have large rooms upstairs.' So he makes big windows in it. He covers its walls with cedar boards. He decorates it with red paint." 
Jeremiah22:15 Jehoiakim, does having more and more cedar boards make you a king? Your father Josiah had enough to eat and drink. He did what was right and fair. So everything went well with him." 
Jeremiah22:16 He stood up for those who were poor or needy. So everything went well with him. That is what it means to know me,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah22:17 Jehoiakim, the only thing on your mind is to get rich by cheating others. You would even kill people who are not guilty of doing anything wrong. You would mistreat them. You would take everything they own.""" 
Jeremiah22:18 So the Lord speaks about King Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah. He says, ""His people will not sob over him. They will not say, 'My poor brother! My poor sister!' They will not sob over him. They will not say, 'My poor master! How sad that his glory is gone!'" 
Jeremiah22:19 In fact, he will be buried like a donkey. His body will be dragged away and thrown outside the gates of Jerusalem.""" 
Jeremiah22:20 The Lord says, ""People of Jerusalem, go up to Lebanon. Cry out for help. Let your voice be heard in the land of Bashan. Cry out from the mountains of Abarim. All those who were going to help you are crushed." 
Jeremiah22:21 When you felt secure, I warned you. But you said, 'I won't listen!' You have acted like that ever since you were young. You have not obeyed me." 
Jeremiah22:22 The wind will drive all of your shepherds away. All those who were going to help you will be carried off as prisoners. Then you will be dishonored and put to shame. That will happen because you have been so sinful. 
Jeremiah22:23 Some of you live in Jerusalem in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon. You are comfortable in your cedar buildings. But you will groan when pain comes on you. It will be like the pain of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah22:24 King Jehoiachin, you are the son of Jehoiakim,"" announces the Lord. ""Suppose you were a ring on my right hand. And suppose the ring even had my royal seal on it. Then I would still pull you off my finger. And that is just as sure as I am alive." 
Jeremiah22:25 I will hand you over to those who are trying to kill you. I will turn you over to people you are afraid of. I will give you to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. I will hand you over to his armies." 
Jeremiah22:26 I will throw you out into another country. I will throw your mother out. Neither of you was born in that country. But both of you will die there. 
Jeremiah22:27 You will never come back to the land you long to return to. 
Jeremiah22:28 This man Jehoiachin is like a broken pot. Everyone hates him. No one wants him. Why will he and his children be thrown out of this land? Why will they be sent to a land they didn't have anything to do with before? 
Jeremiah22:29 Land, land, land, listen to the Lord's message!" 
Jeremiah22:30 The Lord says, ""Let the record say that this man did not have any children. Let it report that he did not have any success in life. None of his children will have success either. None of them will sit on David's throne. None of them will ever rule over Judah." 
Jeremiah23:1 How terrible it will be for the shepherds who lead my people down the wrong path! announces the Lord. They are destroying and scattering the sheep that belong to my flock. 
Jeremiah23:2 So the Lord, the God of Israel, speaks to the shepherds who take care of my people. He tells them, ""You have scattered my sheep. You have driven them away. You have not taken good care of them. So I will punish you for the evil things you have done,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:3 I myself will gather together those who are left alive in my flock. I will gather them out of all of the countries where I have driven them. And I will bring them back to their own land. There my sheep will have many lambs. Their numbers will increase. 
Jeremiah23:4 I will place shepherds over them who will take good care of them. My sheep will not be afraid or terrified anymore. And none of them will be missing,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:5 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time I will raise up from David's royal line a true and rightful Branch. He will be a King who will rule wisely. He will do what is fair and right in the land." 
Jeremiah23:6 In his days Judah will be saved. Israel will live in safety. And the Branch will be called The Lord Who Makes Us Right With Himself. 
Jeremiah23:7 Other days are also coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time people will no longer say, 'The Lord brought the people of Israel up out of Egypt. And that's just as sure as he is alive.'" 
Jeremiah23:8 Instead, they will say, 'The Lord brought the people of Israel up out of the land of the north. He gathered them out of all of the countries where he had forced them to go. And that's just as sure as he is alive.' Then they will live in their own land.""" 
Jeremiah23:9 Here is my message about the prophets. My heart is broken inside me. All of my bones tremble with fear. I am like a man who is drunk. I am like someone who has had too much wine. That's what the Lord's holy words have done to me. 
Jeremiah23:10 The land is full of people who aren't faithful to the Lord. Now the land is under his curse. And that's why it is thirsty for water. That's why the grasslands in the desert are dry. The prophets are leading sinful lives. They don't use their power in the right way. 
Jeremiah23:11 Prophets and priests alike are ungodly,"" announces the Lord. ""Even in my temple I find them sinning." 
Jeremiah23:12 So their path will become slippery. They will be thrown out into darkness. There they will fall. I will bring trouble on them when the time to punish them comes,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:13 Among the prophets of Samaria I saw something I can't stand. They were prophesying in the name of Baal. They were leading my people Israel down the wrong path. 
Jeremiah23:14 I have also seen something horrible among Jerusalem's prophets. They are not faithful to me. They are not living by the truth. They strengthen the hands of those who do evil. So the people do not turn from their sinful ways. All of them are like the people of Sodom to me. They are just like the people of Gomorrah. 
Jeremiah23:15 So the Lord who rules over all speaks about the prophets. He says, ""I will make them eat bitter food. I will make them drink poisoned water. The prophets of Jerusalem have spread their ungodly ways all through the land.""" 
Jeremiah23:16 The Lord who rules over all says to the people of Judah, ""Do not listen to what the prophets are saying to you. They fill you with false hopes. They talk about visions that come from their own minds. What they say does not come from my mouth." 
Jeremiah23:17 They keep speaking to those who hate me. They say, 'The Lord says you will have peace.' They speak to all those who do what their stubborn hearts want them to do. They tell them, 'No harm will come to you.'" 
Jeremiah23:18 But which of them has ever stood in my courts? Have they been there to see a vision or hear my message? Who has listened and heard my message there? 
Jeremiah23:19 A storm will burst out because of my burning anger. A windstorm will sweep down on the heads of sinful people. 
Jeremiah23:20 My anger will not turn back. I will accomplish everything I plan to do. In days to come you will understand it clearly. 
Jeremiah23:21 I did not send those prophets. But they have run to tell you their message anyway. I did not speak to them. But they have still prophesied. 
Jeremiah23:22 Suppose they had stood in my courts. Then they would have announced my message to my people. They would have turned my people from their evil ways. They would have turned them away from their sins. 
Jeremiah23:23 Am I only a God who is nearby? announces the Lord. Am I not a God who is also far away? 
Jeremiah23:24 Can anyone hide in secret places so that I can't see him? announces the Lord. Don't I fill heaven and earth? announces the Lord. 
Jeremiah23:25 I have heard what the prophets are saying. They prophesy lies in my name. They say, 'I had a dream! The Lord has given me a dream!'" 
Jeremiah23:26 How long will that continue in the hearts of those prophets who tell lies? They try to get others to believe their own mistaken ideas. 
Jeremiah23:27 They tell one another their dreams. They think that will make my people forget my name. In the same way, their people of long ago forgot my name when they worshiped Baal." 
Jeremiah23:28 Let the prophet who has a dream tell his dream. But let the one who has my message speak it faithfully. Your prophets have given you straw to eat instead of grain,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:29 My message is like fire,"" announces the Lord. ""It is like a hammer that breaks a rock in pieces." 
Jeremiah23:30 So I am against those prophets,"" announces the Lord. ""I am against those who steal messages from one another. They claim that the messages come from me." 
Jeremiah23:31 Yes,"" announces the Lord. ""I am against the prophets who wag their own tongues but still say, 'Here is what the Lord says.'" 
Jeremiah23:32 I am against prophets who talk about dreams that did not come from me,"" announces the Lord. ""They tell foolish lies. Their lies lead my people down the wrong path. ""But I did not send those prophets. I did not appoint them. They do not help my people in the least,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah23:33 Jeremiah, those people might ask you a question. Or a prophet or priest might do it. They might ask, 'What message have you received from the Lord?' ""Then tell them, 'You ask, ""What message?"" Here it is. ""I will desert you,"" announces the Lord.'" 
Jeremiah23:34 A prophet or priest might make a claim. Or someone else might do it. He might claim, 'I have received a message from the Lord.' Then I will punish him and his family." 
Jeremiah23:35 Here is what each of you people keeps on saying to your friend or relative. You ask, 'What is the Lord's answer?' Or you ask, 'What has the Lord spoken?'" 
Jeremiah23:36 But you must not talk about 'a message from the Lord' again. That is because your message becomes your own message. And so you twist my words. I am the living God. I am the Lord who rules over all. And I am your God. 
Jeremiah23:37 Here is what you keep saying to a prophet. You ask, 'What is the Lord's answer to you?' Or you ask, 'What has the Lord spoken?'" 
Jeremiah23:38 You claim, 'I have received a message from the Lord.' But I really say, 'You used the words, ""I have received a message from the Lord."" But I told you that you must not claim, ""I have received a message from the Lord."" '" 
Jeremiah23:39 So you can be sure I will forget you. I will throw you out of my sight. I will also destroy the city I gave you and your people. 
Jeremiah23:40 I will bring shame on you that will last forever. It will never be forgotten. 
Jeremiah24:1 King Jehoiachin was forced to leave Jerusalem. He was the son of Jehoiakim. Jehoiachin was taken to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. The officials and all of the skilled workers were forced to leave with him. After they left, the Lord showed me two baskets of figs. They were in front of his temple." 
Jeremiah24:2 One basket had very good figs in it. They were like figs that ripen early. The other basket had figs that weren't good at all. In fact, they were so bad they couldn't even be eaten." 
Jeremiah24:3 Then the Lord asked me, ""What do you see, Jeremiah?"" ""Figs,"" I answered. ""The good ones are very good. But the others are so bad they can't be eaten.""" 
Jeremiah24:4 Then a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah24:5 I am the Lord, the God of Israel. I say, 'I consider the people who were forced to leave Judah to be like those good figs. I sent them away from this place. I forced them to go to Babylonia." 
Jeremiah24:6 My eyes will watch over them. I will be good to them. And I will bring them back to this land. I will build them up. I will not tear them down. I will plant them. I will not pull them up by the roots. 
Jeremiah24:7  'I will change their hearts. Then they will know that I am the Lord. They will be my people. And I will be their God. They will return to me with all their heart. 
Jeremiah24:8  'But there are also figs that are not very good. In fact, they are so bad they can't be eaten,' says the Lord. 'Zedekiah, the king of Judah, is like those bad figs. So are his officials and the people of Jerusalem who are still left alive. I will punish them whether they remain in this land or live in Egypt." 
Jeremiah24:9  'I will make all of the kingdoms on earth displeased with them. In fact, they will hate them a great deal. They will laugh and joke about them. They will call down curses on them. All of that will happen no matter where I force them to go." 
Jeremiah24:10 I will send war, hunger and plague against them. They will be destroyed from the land I gave them and their people of long ago.' """ 
Jeremiah25:1 A message about all of the people of Judah came to me from the Lord. It came in the fourth year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah. It was the first year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. Jehoiakim was the son of Josiah. 
Jeremiah25:2 I, the Lord's prophet, spoke to all of the people of Judah and Jerusalem. I said," 
Jeremiah25:3 For 23 years the Lord's messages have been coming to me. They began to come in the 13th year that Josiah was king of Judah. He was the son of Amon. The Lord's messages still come to me today. I've spoken to you people again and again. But you haven't listened to me. 
Jeremiah25:4 The Lord has sent all of his servants the prophets to you. They've come to you again and again. But you haven't listened. You haven't paid any attention to them. 
Jeremiah25:5 They said, 'Each of you must turn from your evil ways and practices. Then you can stay in the land forever. It's the land the Lord gave you and your people long ago." 
Jeremiah25:6 Don't follow other gods. Don't serve them or worship them. Don't make the Lord angry with the gods your own hands have made. Then he won't harm you.' 
Jeremiah25:7  'But you did not listen to me,' announces the Lord. 'You have made me very angry with the gods your hands have made. And you have brought harm on yourselves.'" 
Jeremiah25:8 The Lord who rules over all says, 'You have not listened to my words." 
Jeremiah25:9 So I will send for all of the nations in the north. And I will send for my servant Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia,' announces the Lord. "" 'I will bring all of them against this land and against you who live here. They will march out against all of the nations that are around this land. I will set them apart in a special way to be destroyed. People will be shocked because of them. And they will make fun of them. Those nations will be destroyed forever." 
Jeremiah25:10  'I will put an end to the sounds of joy and gladness. I will put an end to the voices of brides and grooms. The sound of grinding millstones will not be heard anymore. And lamps will not be lit anymore. 
Jeremiah25:11 This whole country will become dry and empty. And those nations will serve the king of Babylonia for 70 years. 
Jeremiah25:12  'But I will punish that king and his nation because they are guilty. I will do it when the 70 years are over,' announces the Lord. 'I will make that land a desert forever." 
Jeremiah25:13  'I have spoken against that land. And I will make all of those things happen to it. Everything will happen that is written in this scroll. And I will make everything Jeremiah prophesied against all of the nations come true. 
Jeremiah25:14 The people of Babylonia will become slaves of many other nations and great kings. I will pay them back for what their hands have done.' 
Jeremiah25:15 The Lord is the God of Israel. He said to me, ""Take this cup from my hand. It is filled with the wine of my burning anger. Make all of the nations to which I send you drink it." 
Jeremiah25:16 When they drink it, they will not even be able to walk straight. It will drive them out of their minds. I am going to send war against them.""" 
Jeremiah25:17 So I took the cup from the Lord's hand. I made all of the nations to which he sent me drink from it. 
Jeremiah25:18 He sent me to Judah's kings and officials. He told me to go to Jerusalem and the towns of Judah. He wanted me to tell them they would be destroyed. Then people would be shocked because of them. They would make fun of them. They would call down curses on them. And that's how things still are today. 
Jeremiah25:19 Here is a list of the other kings and nations he sent me to. Pharaoh, the king of Egypt his attendants, his officials, all of his people" 
Jeremiah25:20 all of the people from other lands who lived there all of the kings of Uz the Philistine kings of Ashkelon, Gaza and Ekron the Philistines who were still living in Ashdod" 
Jeremiah25:21 Edom, Moab, Ammon" 
Jeremiah25:22 all of the kings of Tyre and Sidon the kings of the islands and other lands along the Mediterranean Sea 
Jeremiah25:23 Dedan, Teman, Buz all of the other places far away in the east" 
Jeremiah25:24 all of the kings of Arabia all of the other kings of people who live in the desert 
Jeremiah25:25 all of the kings of Zimri, Elam and Media" 
Jeremiah25:26 all of the kings in the north, near and far So he sent me to all of the kingdoms on the face of the earth, one after the other. After all of them drink from the cup of the Lord's anger, the king of Babylonia will drink from it too." 
Jeremiah25:27 The Lord says, ""Tell them, 'The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Drink from this cup. Get drunk and throw up. Fall down and do not get up again. I am going to send war against you."" '" 
Jeremiah25:28 But they might refuse to take the cup from your hand. They might not want to drink from it. Then tell them, 'The Lord who rules over all says, ""You have to drink from it!" 
Jeremiah25:29 I am beginning to bring trouble on the city where I have put my Name. You might think you will not be punished. But you will certainly be punished. I am sending war against everyone who lives on earth,"" announces the Lord who rules over all.'" 
Jeremiah25:30 Jeremiah, prophesy against them. Tell them, "" 'The Lord will roar from heaven like a lion. His voice will sound like thunder from his holy temple there. He will roar loudly against his land. He will shout like those who stomp on grapes in winepresses. He will shout against everyone who lives on earth." 
Jeremiah25:31 The noise of battle will be heard from one end of the earth to the other. That's because the Lord will bring charges against the nations. He will judge every human being. He will kill sinful people with his sword,' "" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah25:32 The Lord who rules over all says, ""Look! Horrible trouble is spreading from one nation to another. A mighty storm is rising. It is coming from a place that is very far away.""" 
Jeremiah25:33 At that time those the Lord kills will be lying around everywhere. They will be found from one end of the earth to the other. No one will sob over them. Their dead bodies will not be gathered up or buried. Instead, they will be like trash lying there on the ground." 
Jeremiah25:34 Sob and cry, you shepherds. Roll in the dust, you leaders of the flock. Your time to be killed has come. You will fall and be broken to pieces like fine clay pots." 
Jeremiah25:35 The shepherds won't have any place to run to. The leaders of the flock won't be able to escape. 
Jeremiah25:36 Listen to the cries of the shepherds. Hear the sobs of the leaders of the flock. The Lord is destroying their grasslands. 
Jeremiah25:37 Their peaceful meadows will be completely destroyed because of the Lord's burning anger. 
Jeremiah25:38 Like a lion he will leave his den. The land of those leaders will become a desert. That's because the sword of the Lord brings great harm. His anger will burn against them. 
Jeremiah26:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It was shortly after Jehoiakim became king of Judah. He was the son of Josiah. 
Jeremiah26:2 The Lord said, ""Stand in the courtyard of my house. Speak to the people of the towns in Judah. Speak to all those who come to worship in my house. Tell them everything I command you. Do not leave out a single word." 
Jeremiah26:3 Perhaps they will listen. Maybe they will turn from their evil ways. Then I will not do what I said I would. I will not bring trouble on them. I had planned to punish them because of the evil things they had done. 
Jeremiah26:4 Tell them, 'The Lord says, ""Listen to me. Obey my law that I gave you." 
Jeremiah26:5 And listen to the words my servants the prophets are speaking. I have sent them to you again and again. But you have not listened to them. 
Jeremiah26:6 So I will make this house like Shiloh. All of the nations on earth will call down curses on this city. ' 
Jeremiah26:7 I spoke those words in the Lord's house. The priests, the prophets and all of the people heard me." 
Jeremiah26:8 I finished telling all of the people everything the Lord had commanded me to say. But as soon as I did, the priests, the prophets and all of the people grabbed hold of me. They said, ""You must die!" 
Jeremiah26:9 Why do you prophesy those things in the Lord's name? Why do you say that this house will become like Shiloh? Why do you say that this city will be empty and deserted? And all of the people crowded around me in the Lord's house. 
Jeremiah26:10 The officials of Judah heard what had happened. So they went up from the royal palace to the Lord's house. There they took their places at the entrance of the New Gate. 
Jeremiah26:11 Then the priests and prophets spoke to the officials and all of the people. They said, ""This man should be sentenced to death. He has prophesied against this city. You have heard it with your own ears!""" 
Jeremiah26:12 Then I spoke to all of the officials and people. I said, ""The Lord sent me to prophesy against this house and this city. He told me to say everything you have heard." 
Jeremiah26:13 So change the way you live and act. Obey the Lord your God. Then he won't do what he said he would. He won't bring on you the trouble he said he would bring. 
Jeremiah26:14 As for me, I'm in your hands. Do to me what you think is good and right." 
Jeremiah26:15 But you can be sure of one thing. If you put me to death, you will be held accountable for spilling my blood. And I haven't even done anything wrong. You will bring guilt on yourselves and this city and those who live in it. The Lord has sent me to you. He wanted me to say all of those things so you could hear them. And that's the truth.""" 
Jeremiah26:16 Then the officials and all of the people spoke to the priests and prophets. They said, ""This man shouldn't be sentenced to death! He has spoken to us in the name of the Lord our God.""" 
Jeremiah26:17 Some of the elders of the land stepped forward. They spoke to the whole community that was gathered there. They said," 
Jeremiah26:18 Micah from Moresheth prophesied. It was during the time Hezekiah was king over Judah. Micah spoke to all of the people of Judah. He told them, 'The Lord who rules over all says, "" ' ""Zion will be plowed up like a field. Jerusalem will be turned into a pile of trash. The temple hill will be covered with bushes and weeds."" ',(Micah 3:12)" 
Jeremiah26:18 Micah from Moresheth prophesied. It was during the time Hezekiah was king over Judah. Micah spoke to all of the people of Judah. He told them, 'The Lord who rules over all says, "" ' ""Zion will be plowed up like a field. Jerusalem will be turned into a pile of trash. The temple hill will be covered with bushes and weeds."" ',(Micah 3:12)" 
Jeremiah26:19 Did King Hezekiah or anyone else in Judah put Micah to death? Hezekiah had respect for the Lord. He asked the Lord to show him his favor. And the Lord didn't judge Jerusalem as he said he would. He didn't bring on it the trouble he said he would bring. But we are about to bring horrible trouble on ourselves! 
Jeremiah26:19 Did King Hezekiah or anyone else in Judah put Micah to death? Hezekiah had respect for the Lord. He asked the Lord to show him his favor. And the Lord didn't judge Jerusalem as he said he would. He didn't bring on it the trouble he said he would bring. But we are about to bring horrible trouble on ourselves! 
Jeremiah26:20 Uriah was another man who prophesied in the name of the Lord. He was from Kiriath Jearim. He was the son of Shemaiah. Uriah prophesied against this city and this land. He said the same things I did. 
Jeremiah26:21 King Jehoiakim and all of his officers and officials heard Uriah's words. So the king tried to have him put to death. But Uriah heard about it. He was afraid. And he ran away to Egypt. 
Jeremiah26:22 So King Jehoiakim sent Elnathan to Egypt. He also sent some other men along with him. Elnathan was the son of Acbor. 
Jeremiah26:23 Those men brought Uriah out of Egypt. They took him to King Jehoiakim. Then the king had Uriah struck down with a sword. He had Uriah's body thrown into one of the graves of the ordinary people. 
Jeremiah26:24 In spite of that, Ahikam stood up for me. He was the son of Shaphan. Because of Ahikam, I wasn't handed over to the people to be put to death." 
Jeremiah27:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It was shortly after Zedekiah became king of Judah. He was the son of Josiah. 
Jeremiah27:2 The Lord said, ""Make a yoke out of ropes and wooden boards. Put it on your neck." 
Jeremiah27:3 Then write down a message for the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre and Sidon. Give it to their messengers who have come to Jerusalem. They have come to see Zedekiah, the king of Judah." 
Jeremiah27:4 Give them a message for the kings who sent them. It should say, 'The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Here is what I want you to tell your masters." 
Jeremiah27:5 I reached out my great and powerful arm. I made the earth. I made its people and animals. And I can give the earth to anyone I please. 
Jeremiah27:6  ' Now I will hand all of your countries over to my servant Nebuchadnezzar. He is king of Babylonia. I will put even the wild animals under his control. 
Jeremiah27:7 All of the nations will serve him and his son and grandson. After that, I will judge his land. Then many nations and great kings will make him serve them." 
Jeremiah27:8  ' But suppose any nation or kingdom will not serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. And suppose it refuses to put its neck under his yoke. Then I will punish that nation with war, hunger and plague,"" announces the Lord. ""I will punish it until his powerful hand destroys it." 
Jeremiah27:9  ' So do not listen to your prophets. Do not listen to those who claim to have secret knowledge. Do not listen to those who try to explain your dreams. Do not listen to those who get messages from people who have died. Do not listen to those who practice evil magic. All of them will tell you, 'You won't serve the king of Babylonia.'" 
Jeremiah27:10  ' But they prophesy lies to you. If you listen to them, you will be removed far away from your lands. I will drive you away from them. And you will die." 
Jeremiah27:11  ' But suppose any nation will put its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylonia. And suppose it serves him. Then I will let that nation remain in its own land. I will let its people plow the land and live there,"" ' "" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah27:12 I gave the same message to Zedekiah, the king of Judah. I said, ""Put your neck under the yoke of the king of Babylonia. Obey him. Serve his people. Then you will live." 
Jeremiah27:13 Why should you and your people die? Why should you die of war, hunger and plague? That's what the Lord said would happen to any nation that won't serve the king of Babylonia." 
Jeremiah27:14 Don't listen to the words of the prophets who say to you, 'You won't serve the king of Babylonia.' They are prophesying lies to you." 
Jeremiah27:15 'I have not sent them,' announces the Lord. 'They are prophesying lies in my name. So I will drive you away from your land. And you will die. So will the prophets who prophesy to you.' """ 
Jeremiah27:16 Then I spoke to the priests and all of those people. I said, ""The Lord says, 'Do not listen to the prophets who say, ""Very soon the articles from the Lord's house will be brought back from Babylon."" They are prophesying lies to you." 
Jeremiah27:17 Do not listen to them. Serve the king of Babylonia. Then you will live. Why should this city be destroyed? 
Jeremiah27:18  'If they are prophets and have received a message from me, let them pray to me. I am the Lord who rules over all. Those prophets should pray that what is still in Jerusalem will remain here. They should pray that the articles in my house and the king's palace will not be taken to Babylon." 
Jeremiah27:19  'I am the Lord who rules over all. Do you know what those articles are? They include the two pillars in front of the temple. They include the huge metal bowl. They include the bronze stands that can be moved around. And they include the other articles that are left in this city. 
Jeremiah27:20 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, did not take those things away at first. That was when he took King Jehoiachin from Jerusalem to Babylon. He also took all of the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem along with him. Jehoiachin is the son of Jehoiakim." 
Jeremiah27:21  'I am the Lord who rules over all. I am the God of Israel. Here is what will happen to the things that are left in my house, the king's palace and Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah27:22 They will be taken to Babylon. They will remain there until the day I come for them,' announces the Lord. 'Then I will bring them back. I will return them to this place.' """ 
Jeremiah28:1 The prophet Hananiah spoke to me in the Lord's house. It was shortly after Zedekiah became king of Judah. It was in the fifth month of his fourth year. Hananiah was from Gibeon. He was the son of Azzur. In front of the priests and all of the people Hananiah said to me," 
Jeremiah28:2 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'I will break the yoke of the king of Babylonia." 
Jeremiah28:3 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, removed all of the articles that belong to my house. He took them to Babylon. Before two years are over, I will bring them back to this place." 
Jeremiah28:4  'I will also bring King Jehoiachin back. He is the son of Jehoiakim. And I will bring back all of the others who were taken from Judah to Babylon,' announces the Lord. 'I will break the yoke of the king of Babylonia.' """ 
Jeremiah28:5 Then I, the prophet Jeremiah, replied to the prophet Hananiah. I spoke to him in front of the priests and all of the people. They were standing in the Lord's house." 
Jeremiah28:6 I said, ""Amen, Hananiah! May the Lord do those things! May he make the words you have prophesied come true. May he bring back from Babylon the articles that belong to the Lord's house. May he bring back to this place all of the people who were taken away." 
Jeremiah28:7 But listen to what I have to say. I want you and all of the people to hear it. 
Jeremiah28:8 There have been prophets long before you and I were ever born. They have prophesied against many countries and great kingdoms. They have spoken about war, trouble and plague." 
Jeremiah28:9 But what if a prophet says peace will come? Only if it comes true will he be recognized as one who has been truly sent by the Lord. 
Jeremiah28:10 The prophet Hananiah took the yoke off my neck. Then he broke it. 
Jeremiah28:11 In front of all of the people he said, ""The Lord says, 'In the same way, I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. Before two years are over, I will remove it from the necks of all of the nations.' "" When I heard that, I went on my way." 
Jeremiah28:12 A message came to me from the Lord. It was shortly after the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke off my neck. The message said," 
Jeremiah28:13 Go. Tell Hananiah, 'The Lord says, ""You have broken a wooden yoke. But in its place you will get an iron yoke.""" 
Jeremiah28:14 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I will put an iron yoke on the necks of all of those nations. I will make them serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. So they will serve him. I will even give him control over the wild animals."" ' """ 
Jeremiah28:15 Then I, the prophet Jeremiah, spoke to the prophet Hananiah. I said, ""Listen, Hananiah! The Lord hasn't sent you. But you have tricked these people. Now they trust in lies." 
Jeremiah28:16 So the Lord says, 'I am about to remove you from the face of the earth. Before this year is over, you will die. You have taught the people to turn against me.' """ 
Jeremiah28:17 In the seventh month of that very year, the prophet Hananiah died." 
Jeremiah29:1 I, the prophet Jeremiah, sent a letter from Jerusalem to Babylonia. It was for the Jewish elders who were still alive there. It was also for the priests and prophets in Babylonia. And it was for all of the other people Nebuchadnezzar had taken from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:2 It was sent to them after King Jehoiachin had been forced to leave Jerusalem. His mother and the court officials were taken with him. The leaders of Judah and Jerusalem and all of the skilled workers had also been forced to go to Babylon. 
Jeremiah29:3 I gave the letter to Elasah and Gemariah. Zedekiah, the king of Judah, had sent them to King Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon. Elasah was the son of Shaphan. Gemariah was the son of Hilkiah. Here is what the letter said." 
Jeremiah29:4 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He speaks to all those he forced to go from Jerusalem to Babylon. He says," 
Jeremiah29:5 Build houses and settle down. Plant gardens and eat what they produce. 
Jeremiah29:6 Get married. Have sons and daughters. Find wives for your sons. Give your daughters to be married. Then they too can have sons and daughters. Increase your numbers there. Do not let the number of your people get smaller. 
Jeremiah29:7 Also work for the success of the city I have sent you to. Pray to the Lord for that city. If it succeeds, you too will enjoy success.""" 
Jeremiah29:8 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Do not let the prophets trick you. Do not be fooled by those who claim to have secret knowledge. Do not listen to people who try to explain their dreams to you." 
Jeremiah29:9 All of them are prophesying lies to you in my name. I have not sent them,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah29:10 The Lord says, ""You will be forced to live in Babylonia for 70 years. After they are over, I will come to you. My gracious promise to you will come true. I will bring you back home." 
Jeremiah29:11 I know the plans I have for you,"" announces the Lord. ""I want you to enjoy success. I do not plan to harm you. I will give you hope for the years to come." 
Jeremiah29:12 Then you will call out to me. You will come and pray to me. And I will listen to you. 
Jeremiah29:13 When you look for me with all your heart, you will find me." 
Jeremiah29:14 I will be found by you,"" announces the Lord. ""And I will bring you back from where you were taken as prisoners. I will gather you from all of the nations. I will gather you from the places where I have forced you to go,"" announces the Lord. ""I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you away.""" 
Jeremiah29:15 You might say, ""The Lord has given us prophets in Babylonia.""" 
Jeremiah29:16 But here is what the Lord says about the king who now sits on David's throne. He also says it about all of the people who remain in this city. And he says it about all those who did not go with you to Babylon. 
Jeremiah29:17 The Lord who rules over all says, ""I will send war, hunger and plague against them. I will make them like bad figs. They are so bad they can't be eaten." 
Jeremiah29:18 I will hunt them down with war, hunger and plague. I will make all of the kingdoms on earth displeased with them. They will call down curses on them. All of the nations where I drive them will be shocked at them. They will make fun of them. And they will bring shame on them." 
Jeremiah29:19 That is because they have not listened to my words,"" announces the Lord. ""I sent messages to them again and again. I sent them through my servants the prophets. And you who were taken to Babylon have not listened either,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah29:20 So listen to the Lord's message. Listen, all of you whom he has sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon." 
Jeremiah29:21 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He speaks about Ahab and Zedekiah. They are prophesying lies to you in my name. Ahab is the son of Kolaiah. Zedekiah is the son of Maaseiah. The Lord says about Ahab and Zedekiah, ""I will hand them over to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. He will put them to death. You will see it with your own eyes." 
Jeremiah29:22 Because of what happens to them, people will use their names when they call down curses on someone. All those who have been taken from Judah to Babylon will use their names in that way. They will say, 'May the Lord treat you like Zedekiah and Ahab. The king of Babylonia burned them in the fire.'" 
Jeremiah29:23 That will happen because they have done awful things in Israel. They have committed adultery with their neighbors' wives. They have spoken lies in my name. I did not tell them to do that. I know what they have done. And I am a witness to it,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah29:24 Tell Shemaiah, the Nehelamite," 
Jeremiah29:25 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'You sent letters in your own name to all of the people in Jerusalem. You also sent them to the priest Zephaniah, the son of Maaseiah. And you sent them to all of the other priests. "" 'You said to Zephaniah," 
Jeremiah29:25 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'You sent letters in your own name to all of the people in Jerusalem. You also sent them to the priest Zephaniah, the son of Maaseiah. And you sent them to all of the other priests. "" 'You said to Zephaniah," 
Jeremiah29:26 The Lord has appointed you priest in place of Jehoiada. He has put you in charge of the Lord's house. You are supposed to arrest any crazy person who claims to be a prophet. You should put him in prison. You should put iron bands around his neck. 
Jeremiah29:27  ' So why haven't you punished Jeremiah from Anathoth? He claims to be a prophet among you. 
Jeremiah29:28 He has sent a message to us in Babylon. It says, 'You will be there a long time. So build houses and settle down. Plant gardens and eat what they produce.' "" ' """ 
Jeremiah29:29 But the priest Zephaniah read the letter to me. 
Jeremiah29:29 But the priest Zephaniah read the letter to me. 
Jeremiah29:30 Then a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah29:31 Send a message to all of the people who were taken away. Tell them, 'The Lord speaks about Shemaiah, the Nehelamite. He says, ""Shemaiah has prophesied to you. But I did not send him. He has made you believe a lie." 
Jeremiah29:32  ' So I say, 'I will certainly punish Shemaiah, the Nehelamite. I will also punish his children after him. He will not have any children left among these people. I will do good things for my people. But he will not see them,' "" ' "" announces the Lord. "" ' "" 'That is because he has taught people to turn against me.' "" ' """ 
Jeremiah30:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah30:2 I am the Lord. I am the God of Israel. I say, 'Write on a scroll all of the words I have spoken to you." 
Jeremiah30:3 A new day is coming,' "" announces the Lord. "" 'At that time I will bring my people Israel and Judah back from where they have been taken as prisoners. I will bring them back to this land. Long ago I gave it to their people to have as their own,' "" says the Lord." 
Jeremiah30:4 Here are the words the Lord spoke about Israel and Judah. He said," 
Jeremiah30:5 I am the Lord. I say, "" 'Cries of fear are heard. There is terror. There isn't any peace." 
Jeremiah30:6 Ask and see. Can a man give birth to children? Then why do I see every strong man with his hands on his stomach? Each of them is acting like a woman having a baby. Every face is as pale as death. 
Jeremiah30:7 How awful that day will be! No other day will be like it. It will be a time of trouble for the people of Jacob. But they will be saved out of it. 
Jeremiah30:8  'At that time I will break the yoke off their necks,' announces the Lord who rules over all. 'I will tear off the ropes that hold them. People from other lands will not make them slaves anymore." 
Jeremiah30:9 Instead, they will serve me. And they will serve David their king. I will raise him up for them. I am the Lord their God." 
Jeremiah30:10  'People of Jacob, do not be afraid. You are my servant. Israel, do not be terrified,' "" announces the Lord. "" 'You can be sure that I will save you. I will bring you out of a place far away. I will bring your children back from the land where they were taken. Your people will have peace and security again. And no one will make them afraid." 
Jeremiah30:11 I am with you. I will save you,' "" announces the Lord. "" 'I will completely destroy all of the nations among which I scatter you. But I will not completely destroy you. I will correct you. But I will be fair. I will punish you in a way that is fair and right.' """ 
Jeremiah30:12 The Lord says, ""Your wound can't be cured. Your pain can't be healed." 
Jeremiah30:13 No one will stand up for you. There isn't any medicine for your sore. There isn't any healing for you. 
Jeremiah30:14 All those who were going to help you have forgotten you. They do not care about you. I have struck you as if I were your enemy. I have punished you as if I were very mean. That is because your guilt is so great. You have sinned so much. 
Jeremiah30:15 Why do you cry out about your wound? Your pain can't be healed. Your guilt is very great. And you have committed many sins. That is why I have done all of those things to you. 
Jeremiah30:16 But everyone who destroys you will be destroyed. All of your enemies will be forced to leave their countries. Those who steal from you will be stolen from. I will take the belongings of those who take things from you. 
Jeremiah30:17 But I will make you healthy again. I will heal your wounds,"" announces the Lord. ""That is because you have been thrown out. You are called Zion, the one no one cares about.""" 
Jeremiah30:18 The Lord says, ""I will bless Jacob's people with great success again. I will show tender love to Israel. Jerusalem will be rebuilt where it was destroyed. The palace will stand in its proper place." 
Jeremiah30:19 From those places the songs of people giving thanks will be heard. The sound of great joy will come from there. I will increase the numbers of my people. Their numbers will not become smaller. I will bring them honor. People will have respect for them. 
Jeremiah30:20 Things will be as they used to be for Jacob's people. I will make their community firm and secure. I will punish everyone who treats them badly. 
Jeremiah30:21 Their leader will be one of their own people. Their ruler will rise up from among them. I will bring him near. And he will come close to me. He will commit himself to serve me,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah30:22 So you will be my people. And I will be your God. 
Jeremiah30:23 A storm will burst out because of the Lord's burning anger. A strong wind will sweep down on the heads of evil people. 
Jeremiah30:24 The Lord's burning anger won't turn back. He will accomplish everything his heart plans to do. In days to come you will understand that. 
Jeremiah31:1 At that time I will be the God of all of the tribes of Israel,"" announces the Lord. ""And they will be my people.""" 
Jeremiah31:2 The Lord says, ""Some of my people will live through everything their enemies do to them. They will find help in the desert. I will come to give peace and rest to Israel.""" 
Jeremiah31:3 The Lord appeared to us in the past. He said, ""I have loved you with a love that lasts forever. I have kept on loving you with faithful love." 
Jeremiah31:4 I will build you up again. Nation of Israel, you will be rebuilt. Once again you will use your tambourines to celebrate. You will go out and dance with joy." 
Jeremiah31:5 Once again you will plant vineyards on the hills of Samaria. Farmers will plant them. They will enjoy their fruit. 
Jeremiah31:6 There will be a day when those on guard duty will cry out. They will stand on the hills of Ephraim. And they will shout, 'Come! Let's go up to Zion. Let's go up to where the Lord our God is.' """ 
Jeremiah31:7 The Lord says, ""Sing with joy because the people of Jacob are blessed. Shout because the Lord has made them the greatest nation. Make your praises heard. Say, 'Lord, save your people. Save the people who are left alive in Israel.'" 
Jeremiah31:8 I will bring them from the land of the north. I will gather them from one end of the earth to the other. Even those who are blind and those who can't walk will be among them. Pregnant women and women having their babies will be among them also. A large number will return. 
Jeremiah31:9 Their eyes will be filled with tears as they come. They will pray as I bring them back. I will lead them beside streams of water. I will lead them on a level path where they will not trip or fall. I am Israel's father. And Ephraim is my oldest son. 
Jeremiah31:10 Listen to my message, you nations. Announce it on shores far away. Say, 'He who scattered Israel will gather them. He will watch over his flock like a shepherd.'" 
Jeremiah31:11 I will set the people of Jacob free. I will save them from those who are stronger than they are. 
Jeremiah31:12 They will come and shout for joy on Mount Zion. They will be joyful because of everything I give them. I give them grain, olive oil and fresh wine. I give them the young animals in their flocks and herds. Israel will be like a garden that has plenty of water. And they will not be sad anymore." 
Jeremiah31:13 Then young women will dance and be glad. And so will the men, young and old alike. I will turn their sobbing into gladness. I will comfort them. And I will give them joy instead of sorrow." 
Jeremiah31:14 I will satisfy the priests. I will give them more than enough. And my people will be filled with the good things I give them,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:15 The Lord says, ""A voice is heard in Ramah. It is the sound of crying and deep sadness. Rachel is crying over her children. She refuses to be comforted, because they are gone.""" 
Jeremiah31:16 The Lord says, ""Do not sob anymore. Do not let tears fall from your eyes. I will reward you for your work,"" announces the Lord. ""Your children will return from the land of the enemy." 
Jeremiah31:17 So I am giving you hope for the years to come,"" announces the Lord. ""Your children will return to their own land." 
Jeremiah31:18 I have heard the groans of Ephraim's people. They say, 'You corrected us like a calf you were training. And we have been trained. Bring us back to you, and we will come back. You are the Lord our God." 
Jeremiah31:19 After we wandered away from you, we turned away from our sins. After we learned our lesson, we beat our chests in sorrow. We were full of shame. What we did when we were young brought dishonor on us.'" 
Jeremiah31:20 Aren't the people of Ephraim my dear children? Aren't they the children I take delight in? I often speak against them. But I still remember them. So my heart longs for them. I love them with a tender love,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:21 The Lord says, ""Put up road signs. Set up stones to show the way. Look carefully for the highway. Look for the road you will take. Return, people of Israel. Return to your towns." 
Jeremiah31:22 How long will you wander, you people who are not faithful to me? I will create a new thing on earth. A woman will guard a man.""" 
Jeremiah31:23 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I will bring them back from the place where they were taken. The people in Judah and its towns will say once again, 'Holy temple in Jerusalem, may the Lord bless you. Sacred mountain, may he bless you.'" 
Jeremiah31:24 People will live together in Judah and all of its towns. Farmers and shepherds will live there. 
Jeremiah31:25 I will give rest to those who are tired. I will satisfy those who are weak. 
Jeremiah31:26 When I heard that, I woke up and looked around. My sleep had been pleasant." 
Jeremiah31:27 The Lord announces, ""The days are coming when I will plant the nation of Israel and Judah again. I will plant it with children and young animals." 
Jeremiah31:28 I watched over Israel and Judah to pull them up by the roots. I tore them down. I crushed them. I destroyed them. I brought horrible trouble on them. But now I will watch over them to build them up and plant them,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:29 In those days people will no longer say, 'The fathers have eaten sour grapes. But the children have a bitter taste in their mouths.'" 
Jeremiah31:30 Instead, everyone will die for his own sin. The one who eats sour grapes will taste how bitter they are." 
Jeremiah31:31 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""I will make a new covenant with the people of Israel. I will also make it with the people of Judah." 
Jeremiah31:32 It will not be like the covenant I made with their people long ago. That was when I took them by the hand. I led them out of Egypt. But they broke my covenant. They did it even though I was like a husband to them,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:33 This is the covenant I will make with Israel after that time,"" announces the Lord. ""I will put my law in their minds. I will write it on their hearts. I will be their God. And they will be my people." 
Jeremiah31:34 A man will not need to teach his neighbor anymore. And he will not need to teach his friend anymore. He will not say, 'Know the Lord.' Everyone will know me. From the least important of them to the most important, all of them will know me,"" announces the Lord. ""I will forgive their evil ways. I will not remember their sins anymore.""" 
Jeremiah31:35 The Lord speaks. He makes the sun shine by day. He orders the moon and stars to shine at night. He stirs up the ocean. He makes its waves roar. His name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. 
Jeremiah31:36 Suppose my orders for creation disappear from my sight,"" announces the Lord. ""Only then will the people of Israel stop being a nation in my sight.""" 
Jeremiah31:37 The Lord says, ""Suppose the sky above could be measured. Suppose the foundations of the earth below could be completely discovered. Only then would I turn the people of Israel away. Even though they have committed many sins, I will still accept them,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah31:38 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time Jerusalem will be rebuilt for me. It will be rebuilt from the Tower of Hananel to the Corner Gate." 
Jeremiah31:39 The measuring line will reach out from there. It will go straight to the hill of Gareb. Then it will turn and reach as far as Goah. 
Jeremiah31:40 There is a valley where dead bodies and ashes are thrown. That whole valley will be holy to me. The side of the Kidron Valley east of the city will be holy to me. It will be holy all the way to the corner of the Horse Gate. The city will never again be pulled up by the roots. It will never be destroyed. 
Jeremiah32:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It came in the 10th year that Zedekiah was king of Judah. It was in the 18th year of the rule of Nebuchadnezzar. 
Jeremiah32:2 The armies of the king of Babylonia were getting ready to attack Jerusalem. I, the prophet Jeremiah, was being held as a prisoner. I was kept in the courtyard of the guard. It was part of Judah's royal palace." 
Jeremiah32:3 Zedekiah, the king of Judah, had made me a prisoner there. He had said to me, ""Why do you prophesy as you do? You say, 'The Lord says, ""I am about to hand this city over to the king of Babylonia. He will capture it." 
Jeremiah32:4  ' Zedekiah, the king of Judah, will not escape from the powerful hands of the armies of Babylonia. He will certainly be handed over to the king of Babylonia. Zedekiah will speak with him face to face. He will see him with his own eyes." 
Jeremiah32:5 Nebuchadnezzar will take Zedekiah to Babylon. Zedekiah will remain there until I deal with him,"" announces the Lord. ""Suppose you fight against the armies of Babylonia. If you do, you will not succeed."" ' """ 
Jeremiah32:6 I said, ""A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah32:7 'Hanamel is going to come to you. He is the son of your uncle Shallum. Hanamel will say, ""Buy my field at Anathoth. You are my closest relative. So it's your right and duty to buy it."" '" 
Jeremiah32:8 Then my cousin Hanamel came to me. I was in the courtyard of the guard. It happened just as the Lord had said it would. Hanamel said, 'Buy my field at Anathoth. It is in the territory of Benjamin. It is your right to buy it and own it. So buy it for yourself.' ""I knew that this was the Lord's message." 
Jeremiah32:9 So I bought the field at Anathoth from my cousin Hanamel. I weighed out seven ounces of silver for him. 
Jeremiah32:10 I signed and sealed the deed of purchase. I had some people witness everything. And I weighed out the silver on the scales. 
Jeremiah32:11 There were two copies of the deed. One was sealed and the other wasn't. The deed included the terms and conditions of the sale. 
Jeremiah32:12 I gave Baruch the copies of the deed. My cousin Hanamel saw me do it. The witnesses who had signed the deed were there too. So were all of the Jews who were sitting in the courtyard of the guard. Baruch was the son of Neriah. Neriah was the son of Mahseiah. 
Jeremiah32:13 I gave Baruch directions in front of all of them. I said," 
Jeremiah32:14 'The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Take this deed of purchase. Take the sealed and unsealed copies. Put them in a clay jar. Then they will last a long time.""" 
Jeremiah32:15 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Houses, fields and vineyards will again be bought in this land."" '" 
Jeremiah32:16 I gave the deed of purchase to Baruch, the son of Neriah. Then I prayed to the Lord. I said," 
Jeremiah32:17  'Lord and King, you have reached out your great and powerful arm. You have made the heavens and the earth. Nothing is too hard for you." 
Jeremiah32:18  'You show your love to thousands of people. But you punish children for the sins of their fathers. Great and powerful God, your name is The Lord Who Rules Over All." 
Jeremiah32:19 Your purposes are great. Your acts are mighty. Your eyes see everything people do. You reward each one of them in keeping with his conduct. You do it based on what he has done. 
Jeremiah32:20  'You performed miraculous signs and wonders in Egypt. And you have continued to do them to this very day. You have done them in Israel and among all people. You are still known for doing them. 
Jeremiah32:21 You brought your people Israel out of Egypt. You did it with miraculous signs and wonders. You reached out your mighty hand and powerful arm. You did great and wonderful things. 
Jeremiah32:22  'You gave Israel this land. Long before that, you took an oath. You promised to give their people a land that had plenty of milk and honey." 
Jeremiah32:23 They came in and took it over. But they did not obey you. They didn't follow your law. They didn't do what you commanded them to do. So you brought all of this trouble on them. 
Jeremiah32:24  'See how ramps are built up against Jerusalem's walls to attack it. The city will be handed over to the armies of Babylonia. They are attacking it. It will fall because of war, hunger and plague. What you said would happen is now happening, as you can see." 
Jeremiah32:25 Lord and King, the city will be handed over to the armies of Babylonia. In spite of that, you tell me to buy a field. You say, ""Pay for it with silver. And have the sale witnessed."" ' """ 
Jeremiah32:26 Then a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah32:27 I am the Lord. I am the God of all people. Is anything too hard for me? 
Jeremiah32:28 So the Lord says, ""I am about to hand this city over to the armies of Babylonia. I will give it to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. He will capture it." 
Jeremiah32:29 The armies of Babylonia are now attacking this city. They will come in and set it on fire. They will burn it down. They will burn up the houses where the people made me very angry. They burned incense on their roofs to the god Baal. And they poured out drink offerings to other gods. 
Jeremiah32:30 The people of Israel and Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight. They have done it since the nation was young. In fact, they have done nothing but make me very angry. They have worshiped statues of gods their own hands have made,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah32:31 This city has always stirred up my burning anger. It has done it since the day it was built. Now I must remove it from my sight. 
Jeremiah32:32 The people of Israel and Judah have made me very angry. They have done many evil things. They, their kings and officials have sinned. So have their priests and prophets. And the people of Judah and Jerusalem have also sinned." 
Jeremiah32:33 They turned their backs to me. They would not face me. I taught them again and again. But they would not listen or pay attention when they were corrected. 
Jeremiah32:34 They set up statues of their gods. They did it in the house where I have put my Name. They made my house 'unclean.' I hate those statues. 
Jeremiah32:35 The people built high places for Baal in the Valley of Ben Hinnom. That is where they sacrifice their children to Molech in the fire. That is something I did not command. It did not even enter my mind. They did something I hate. They made Judah sin. 
Jeremiah32:36 You people of Judah are saying about this city, ""By war, hunger and plague it will be handed over to the king of Babylonia."" But the Lord, the God of Israel, says," 
Jeremiah32:37 You can be sure that I will gather my people again. I will bring them from all of the lands where I send them when my burning anger blazes out against them. I will bring them back to this place. And I will let them live in safety. 
Jeremiah32:38 They will be my people. And I will be their God. 
Jeremiah32:39 I will give them a single purpose in life. Then, they will always have respect for me. I will do it for their own good. And it will be for the good of their children after them." 
Jeremiah32:40 I will make a covenant with them that will last forever. I promise that I will never stop doing good to them. I will cause them to respect me. Then they will never turn away from me again. 
Jeremiah32:41 I will take pleasure in doing good things for them. I will certainly plant them in this land. I will do those things with all my heart and soul. 
Jeremiah32:42 The Lord says, ""I have brought all of this horrible trouble on these people. But now I will give them all of the good things I have promised them." 
Jeremiah32:43 Once more fields will be bought in this land. It is the land about which you now say, 'It is a dry and empty desert. It doesn't have any people or animals in it. It has been handed over to the armies of Babylonia.'" 
Jeremiah32:44 Fields will be bought with silver. Deeds will be signed, sealed and witnessed. That will be done in the territory of Benjamin. It will be done in the villages around Jerusalem and in the towns of Judah. It will also be done in the towns of the central hill country. And it will be done in the towns of the western hills and the Negev Desert. I will bless their people with great success again,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah33:1 I was still being held as a prisoner. I was kept in the courtyard of the guard. Then another message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah33:2 I made the earth. I formed it. And I set it in place. The Lord is my name. 
Jeremiah33:3 Call out to me. I will answer you. I will tell you great things you do not know. You will not be able to understand them. 
Jeremiah33:4 The Lord is the God of Israel. He speaks about the houses in Jerusalem. He talks about the royal palaces of Judah. The people had torn many of them down. They had used their stones to strengthen the city walls against attack. 
Jeremiah33:5 That was during their fight with the armies of Babylonia. The Lord says, ""The houses will be filled with dead bodies. They will be the bodies of the men I will kill when my anger burns against them. I will hide my face from this city. That is because its people have committed so many sins." 
Jeremiah33:6 But now I will bring health and healing to Jerusalem. I will heal my people. I will let them enjoy great peace and security. 
Jeremiah33:7 I will bring Judah and Israel back from the places where they have been taken. I will build up the nation again. It will be just as it was before. 
Jeremiah33:8 I will wash from its people all of the sins they have committed against me. And I will forgive all of the sins they committed when they turned away from me. 
Jeremiah33:9 Then this city will bring me fame, joy, praise and honor. All of the nations on earth will hear about the good things I do for this city. They will see the great success and peace I give it. Then they will be filled with wonder. And they will tremble with fear.""" 
Jeremiah33:10 The Lord says, ""You say about this place, 'It's a dry and empty desert. It doesn't have any people or animals in it.' The towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem are now deserted. So they do not have any people or animals living in them. But happy sounds will be heard there once more." 
Jeremiah33:11 They will be the sounds of joy and gladness. The voices of brides and grooms will fill the streets. And the voices of those who bring thank offerings to my house will be heard there. They will say, 'Give thanks to the Lord who rules over all, because he is good. His faithful love continues forever.'That is because I will bless this land with great success again. It will be as it was before,"" says the Lord." 
Jeremiah33:12 The Lord who rules over all says, ""This place is a desert. It does not have any people or animals in it. But there will again be grasslands near all of its towns. Shepherds will rest their flocks there." 
Jeremiah33:13 Flocks will again pass under the hands of shepherds as they count their sheep,"" says the Lord. ""That will be done in the towns of the central hill country. It will be done in the western hills and the Negev Desert. It will be done in the territory of Benjamin. And it will be done in the villages around Jerusalem and in the towns of Judah." 
Jeremiah33:14 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time my gracious promise to my people will come true. I made it to the people of Israel and the people of Judah." 
Jeremiah33:15 In those days and at that time I will make a true and rightful Branch grow from David's royal line. He will do what is fair and right in the land. 
Jeremiah33:16 In those days Judah will be saved. Jerusalem will live in safety. And it will be called The Lord Who Makes Us Right With Himself. 
Jeremiah33:17 The Lord says, ""David will always have a son to sit on the throne of the nation of Israel." 
Jeremiah33:18 The priests, who are Levites, will always have a man to serve me. He will sacrifice burnt offerings. He will burn grain offerings. And he will offer sacrifices.""" 
Jeremiah33:19 A message came to me from the Lord. 
Jeremiah33:20 He said, ""Could you ever break my covenant with the day? Could you ever break my covenant with the night? Could you ever stop day and night from coming at their appointed times?" 
Jeremiah33:21 Only then could my covenant with my servant David be broken. Only then could my covenant with the Levites who serve me as priests be broken. Only then would David no longer have someone from his family line to rule on his throne. 
Jeremiah33:22 Here is what I will do for my servant David. And here is what I will do for the Levites who serve me. I will make their children after them as many as the stars in the sky. And I will make them as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. It will be impossible to count them. 
Jeremiah33:23 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah33:24 Haven't you noticed what these people are saying? They say, 'The Lord once chose the two kingdoms of Israel and Judah. But now he has turned his back on them.' So they hate my people. They do not think of them as a nation anymore." 
Jeremiah33:25 I say, 'What if I had not made my covenant with day and night? What if I had not established the laws of heaven and earth?" 
Jeremiah33:26 Only then would I turn my back on the children of Jacob and my servant David. Only then would I not choose one of David's sons to rule over the children of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. But I will bless my people with great success again. I will love them with tender love.' """ 
Jeremiah34:1 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, and all of his armies were fighting against Jerusalem. They were also fighting against all of the towns that were around it. All of the kingdoms and nations Nebuchadnezzar ruled over were helping him. At that time a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah34:2 I am the Lord, the God of Israel. Go to Zedekiah, the king of Judah. Tell him, 'The Lord says, ""I am about to hand this city over to the king of Babylonia. He will burn it down." 
Jeremiah34:3 You will not escape from his powerful hand. You will certainly be captured. You will be handed over to him. You will see the king of Babylonia with your own eyes. He will speak with you face to face. And you will go to Babylon. 
Jeremiah34:4  ' But listen to my promise, Zedekiah. Listen, king of Judah. I say that you will not be killed with a sword." 
Jeremiah34:5 You will die in a peaceful way. People made fires to honor the kings who died before you. In the same way, they will make a fire in your honor. They will sob over you. They will say, 'My poor master!' I myself make this promise,"" announces the Lord.' """ 
Jeremiah34:6 Then I, the prophet Jeremiah, told all of that to King Zedekiah in Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah34:7 At that time Nebuchadnezzar's armies were fighting against Jerusalem. They were also fighting against Lachish and Azekah. Those two cities were still holding out. They were the only cities left in Judah that had high walls around them. 
Jeremiah34:8 A message came to me from the Lord. King Zedekiah had made a covenant with all of the people in Jerusalem. He had told them to set their Hebrew slaves free. 
Jeremiah34:9 All of them had to do it. That applied to male and female slaves alike. No one was allowed to hold another Jew as a slave. 
Jeremiah34:10 So all of the officials and people entered into that covenant. They agreed to set their male and female slaves free. They agreed not to hold them as slaves anymore. Instead, they set them free." 
Jeremiah34:11 But later they changed their minds. They took back the people they had set free. They made them slaves again. 
Jeremiah34:12 Then a message came to me from the Lord. 
Jeremiah34:13 The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, ""I made a covenant with your people long ago. I brought them out of Egypt. That is the land where they were slaves. I said," 
Jeremiah34:14 'Every seventh year you must set your people free. You must set free all of the Hebrews who have sold themselves to you. Let them serve you for six years. Then you must let them go free.',(Deuteronomy 15:12) But your people did not listen to me. They did not pay any attention to me. 
Jeremiah34:14 'Every seventh year you must set your people free. You must set free all of the Hebrews who have sold themselves to you. Let them serve you for six years. Then you must let them go free.',(Deuteronomy 15:12) But your people did not listen to me. They did not pay any attention to me. 
Jeremiah34:15 Recently you turned away from your sins. You did what is right in my eyes. Each of you set your Hebrew slaves free. You even made a covenant in front of me. You did it in the house where I have put my Name. 
Jeremiah34:16 But now you have turned around. You have treated my name as if it were not holy. Each of you has taken back your male and female slaves. You had set them free to go where they wished. But now you have forced them to become your slaves again. 
Jeremiah34:17 So the Lord says, ""You have not obeyed me. You have not set your Hebrew slaves free. So now I will set you free,"" announces the Lord. ""I will set you free to be destroyed by war, plague and hunger. I will make all of the kingdoms on earth displeased with you." 
Jeremiah34:18 The men who have broken my covenant will be punished. They have not lived up to the terms of the covenant they made in front of me. When you made that covenant, you cut a calf in two. Then you walked between its pieces. Now I will cut you to pieces." 
Jeremiah34:19 That includes all of you who walked between the pieces of the calf. It includes the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the court officials and the priests. It also includes some of the people of the land." 
Jeremiah34:20 So I will hand all of those people over to their enemies who are trying to kill them. Their dead bodies will become food for the birds of the air and the wild animals. 
Jeremiah34:21 I will hand King Zedekiah and his officials over to their enemies. I will hand them over to those who want to kill them. I will give them over to the armies of the king of Babylonia. They have now pulled back from you. 
Jeremiah34:22 But I am going to give an order,"" announces the Lord. ""I will bring them back to this city. They will fight against it. They will take it and burn it down. And I will completely destroy the towns of Judah. No one will be able to live there.""" 
Jeremiah35:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It came during the time Jehoiakim was king over Judah. He was the son of Josiah. The message said," 
Jeremiah35:2 Go to the members of the family line of Recab. Invite them to come to one of the side rooms in my house. Then give them wine to drink. 
Jeremiah35:3 So I went to get Jaazaniah. He was the son of Jeremiah. Jeremiah was the son of Habazziniah. I also went to get Jaazaniah's brothers and all of his sons. That included all of the members of the family line of Recab. 
Jeremiah35:4 I brought them into the Lord's house. I took them into the room of the sons of Hanan. He was the son of Igdaliah. He was also a man of God. His room was next to the room of the officials. Their room was above the room of Maaseiah. He was the son of Shallum. He also was one of those who guarded the temple doors. 
Jeremiah35:5 Then I got bowls full of wine and some cups. I set them down in front of the men from the family line of Recab. I said to them, ""Drink some wine.""" 
Jeremiah35:6 But they replied, ""We don't drink wine. That's because Jonadab gave us a command. He was the son of Recab. He was also one of our own people from long ago. He commanded, 'You and your children after you must never drink wine." 
Jeremiah35:7 Also you must never build houses. You must never plant crops or vineyards. You must never have any of those things. Instead, you must always live in tents. Then you will live a long time in the land where you are wandering around.'" 
Jeremiah35:8 We have done everything Jonadab, the son of Recab, commanded us to do. So we and our wives and our children have never drunk wine." 
Jeremiah35:9 We have never built houses to live in. We've never had vineyards, fields or crops." 
Jeremiah35:10 We've always lived in tents. We've completely obeyed everything Jonadab commanded our people of long ago. 
Jeremiah35:11 But Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, marched into this land. Then we said, 'Come. We must go to Jerusalem. There we can escape the armies of Babylonia and Aram.' So we have remained in Jerusalem.""" 
Jeremiah35:12 Then a message came to me from the Lord. It said," 
Jeremiah35:13 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'Go. Speak to the people of Judah and Jerusalem. Tell them, ""Won't you ever learn a lesson? Won't you ever obey my words?"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah35:14  ' Jonadab, the son of Recab, ordered his children not to drink wine. And they have kept his command. To this very day they do not drink wine. They obey the command Jonadab gave their people long ago. But I have spoken to you again and again. In spite of that, you have not obeyed me." 
Jeremiah35:15  ' Again and again I sent all of my servants the prophets to you. They said, 'Each of you must turn from your evil ways. You must change the way you act. Do not worship other gods. Do not serve them. Then you will live in the land. I gave it to you and your people long ago.' But you have not paid any attention. You have not listened to me." 
Jeremiah35:16  ' The children of Jonadab, the son of Recab, have obeyed the command Jonadab gave them long ago. But the people of Judah have not obeyed me."" ' """ 
Jeremiah35:17 So the Lord God who rules over all speaks. The God of Israel says, ""Listen! I am going to bring horrible trouble on Judah. I will also bring it on everyone who lives in Jerusalem. I will bring on them every trouble I said I would. I spoke to them. But they did not listen. I called out to them. But they did not answer.""" 
Jeremiah35:18 Then I spoke to the members of the family line of Recab. I said, ""The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'You have obeyed the command Jonadab gave your people long ago. You have followed all of his directions. You have done everything he ordered.'" 
Jeremiah35:19 So the Lord who rules over all speaks. The God of Israel says, 'Jonadab, the son of Recab, will always have a man from his family to serve me.' """ 
Jeremiah36:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It came in the fourth year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah. He was the son of Josiah. The message said," 
Jeremiah36:2 Get a scroll. Write on it all of the words I have spoken to you. Write down what I have said about Israel, Judah and all of the other nations. Write what I have said to you from the time of King Josiah until now." 
Jeremiah36:3 The people of Judah will hear about all of the trouble I plan to bring on them. Maybe then all of them will turn from their evil ways. If they do, I will forgive their sins and the evil things they have done.""" 
Jeremiah36:4 So I sent for Baruch, the son of Neriah. I told him to write down all of the words the Lord had spoken to me. And Baruch wrote them on the scroll." 
Jeremiah36:5 Then I said to him, ""I'm not allowed to go to the Lord's temple." 
Jeremiah36:6 So you go there. Go on a day when the people are fasting. Read to them from the scroll. Read the words of the Lord you wrote down as I gave them to you. Read them to all of the people of Judah who come in from their towns. 
Jeremiah36:7 They will hear what the Lord will do to them when his burning anger blazes out against them. Then perhaps they will pray to him. And maybe all of them will turn from their evil ways. 
Jeremiah36:8 Baruch, the son of Neriah, did everything I told him to do. He went to the Lord's temple. There he read the words of the Lord from the scroll." 
Jeremiah36:9 It was in the fifth year that Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, was king of Judah. It was the ninth month of that year. A time of fasting at the Lord's temple had been ordered. All of the people in Jerusalem were told to take part in it. So were those who had come in from the towns of Judah." 
Jeremiah36:10 Baruch read to all of the people who were at the Lord's temple. He read my words from the scroll. He was in the room of the secretary Gemariah. It was located in the upper courtyard at the entrance of the New Gate of the temple. Gemariah was the son of Shaphan. 
Jeremiah36:11 Micaiah was the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan. Micaiah heard Baruch reading all of the Lord's words that were written on the scroll." 
Jeremiah36:12 Then he went down to the secretary's room in the royal palace. All of the officials were sitting there. They included the secretary Elishama and Delaiah, the son of Shemaiah. Elnathan, the son of Acbor, was also there. So was Gemariah, the son of Shaphan. Zedekiah, the son of Hananiah, was there too. And so were all of the other officials." 
Jeremiah36:13 Micaiah told all of them what he had heard. He told them everything Baruch had read to the people from the scroll. 
Jeremiah36:14 All of the officials sent Jehudi to speak to Baruch, the son of Neriah. Jehudi was the son of Nethaniah. Nethaniah was the son of Shelemiah. Shelemiah was the son of Cushi. Jehudi said to Baruch, ""Come. Bring the scroll you have read to the people."" So Baruch went to them. He carried the scroll with him." 
Jeremiah36:15 The officials said to him, ""Please sit down. Read the scroll to us."" So Baruch read it to them." 
Jeremiah36:16 They heard all of its words. Then they looked at each other in fear. They said to Baruch, ""We must report all of these words to the king.""" 
Jeremiah36:17 They said to Baruch, ""Tell us. How did you happen to write all of these things? Did Jeremiah tell you to do it?""" 
Jeremiah36:18 Yes,"" Baruch replied. ""He told me to write down all of these words. So I wrote them in ink on the scroll.""" 
Jeremiah36:19 Then the officials spoke to Baruch. They said, ""You and Jeremiah must go and hide. Don't let anyone know where you are.""" 
Jeremiah36:20 The officials put the scroll in the room of the secretary Elishama. Then they went to the king in the courtyard. They reported everything to him. 
Jeremiah36:21 The king sent Jehudi to get the scroll. Jehudi brought it from the room of the secretary Elishama. He read it to the king. All of the officials were standing beside the king. So they heard it too. 
Jeremiah36:22 It was the ninth month. The king was sitting in his winter apartment. A fire was burning in the fire pot in front of him. 
Jeremiah36:23 Jehudi read three or four columns from the scroll. Then the king cut them off with a secretary's knife. He threw them into the fire pot. He did that until the entire scroll was burned up in the fire. 
Jeremiah36:24 The king and some of his attendants heard all of those words. But they weren't afraid. They didn't tear their clothes. 
Jeremiah36:25 Elnathan, Delaiah and Gemariah begged the king not to burn the scroll. But he wouldn't listen to them." 
Jeremiah36:26 Instead, the king commanded three men to arrest the secretary Baruch and the prophet Jeremiah. But the Lord had hidden them. The three were Jerahmeel, Seraiah and Shelemiah. Jerahmeel was a member of the royal court. Seraiah was the son of Azriel. And Shelemiah was the son of Abdeel." 
Jeremiah36:27 A message came to me from the Lord. It came after the king burned the scroll that had the words Baruch had written down. I had told him to write them. The message said," 
Jeremiah36:28 Get another scroll. Write on it all of the words that were on the first one. King Jehoiakim burned that one up. 
Jeremiah36:29 Also tell King Jehoiakim, 'The Lord says, ""You burned that scroll. You said to Baruch, 'Why did you write that the king of Babylonia would certainly come? Why did you write that he would destroy this land? Why did you write that he would cut off people and animals alike from it?' """ 
Jeremiah36:30  'So now the Lord has something to say about Jehoiakim, the king of Judah. He says, ""No one from Jehoiakim's family line will sit on David's throne. Jehoiakim's body will be thrown out. It will lie outside in the heat by day and in the frost at night." 
Jeremiah36:31 I will punish him and his children and his attendants. I will punish them for their sinful ways. I will bring on them all of the trouble I said I would. And I will bring it on the people of Jerusalem and Judah. They have not listened to me. ' 
Jeremiah36:32 So I got another scroll. I gave it to the secretary Baruch, the son of Neriah. I told him what to write on it. He wrote down all of the words that were on the scroll King Jehoiakim had burned up in the fire. And he added many more words the Lord had given to me. They were similar to those that had already been written." 
Jeremiah37:1 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, appointed Zedekiah to be king of Judah. He was the son of Josiah. Zedekiah ruled in place of Jehoiachin, the son of Jehoiakim." 
Jeremiah37:2 Zedekiah and his attendants didn't pay any attention to what the Lord had said through me. And the people of the land didn't pay any attention either. 
Jeremiah37:3 But King Zedekiah sent Jehucal to me. He sent the priest Zephaniah along with him. Jehucal was the son of Shelemiah. Zephaniah was the son of Maaseiah. Jehucal and Zephaniah brought the king's message to me. It said, ""Please pray to the Lord our God for us.""" 
Jeremiah37:3 But King Zedekiah sent Jehucal to me. He sent the priest Zephaniah along with him. Jehucal was the son of Shelemiah. Zephaniah was the son of Maaseiah. Jehucal and Zephaniah brought the king's message to me. It said, ""Please pray to the Lord our God for us.""" 
Jeremiah37:4 At that time I was free to come and go among the people. I had not yet been put in prison. 
Jeremiah37:5 The armies of Babylonia were attacking Jerusalem. They received a report that Pharaoh's army had marched out of Egypt to help Zedekiah. So they pulled back from Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah37:6 A message came to me from the Lord. 
Jeremiah37:7 The Lord is the God of Israel. He says, ""The king of Judah has sent you to ask me for advice. Tell him, 'Pharaoh's army has marched out to help you. But it will go back to its own land. It will return to Egypt." 
Jeremiah37:8 Then the armies of Babylonia will come back here. They will attack this city. They will capture it. Then they will burn it down.' 
Jeremiah37:9 The Lord says, 'Do not fool yourselves. You think, ""The Babylonians will leave us alone."" But they will not!" 
Jeremiah37:10 Suppose you destroy all of the armies of Babylonia that are attacking you. Suppose only wounded men are left in their tents. Even then they will come out and burn this city down.' 
Jeremiah37:11 The armies of Babylonia had pulled back from Jerusalem because of Pharaoh's army. 
Jeremiah37:12 So I started to leave the city. I was planning to go to the territory of Benjamin. I wanted to get my share of the property among the people there. 
Jeremiah37:13 I got as far as the Benjamin Gate. But the captain of the guard arrested me. He said, ""You are going over to the side of the Babylonians!"" The captain's name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah. Shelemiah was the son of Hananiah." 
Jeremiah37:14 I said to Irijah, ""That isn't true! I'm not going to the side of the Babylonians."" But Irijah wouldn't listen to me. Instead, he arrested me. He brought me to the officials." 
Jeremiah37:15 They were angry with me. So they had me beaten. Then they took me to the house of the secretary Jonathan. It had been made into a prison. That's where they put me. 
Jeremiah37:16 I was put into a prison cell that was below ground level. I remained there a long time. 
Jeremiah37:17 Then King Zedekiah sent for me. He had me brought to the palace. There he spoke to me in private. He asked, ""Do you have a message from the Lord for me?"" ""Yes,"" I replied. ""You will be handed over to the king of Babylonia.""" 
Jeremiah37:18 Then I continued, ""Why have you put me in prison? What crime have I committed against you? What have I done to your officials or these people?" 
Jeremiah37:19 Where are your prophets who prophesied to you? They said, 'The king of Babylonia won't attack you. He won't march into this land.'" 
Jeremiah37:20 But now please listen, my king and master. Let me make my appeal to you. Please don't send me back to the house of the secretary Jonathan. If you do, I'll die there.""" 
Jeremiah37:21 Then King Zedekiah gave the order. His men put me in the courtyard of the guard. They gave me bread from the street of the bakers. They did it every day until all of the bread in the city was gone. So I remained in the courtyard of the guard. 
Jeremiah38:1 Shephatiah, Gedaliah, Jehucal and Pashhur heard what I was telling all of the people. Shephatiah was the son of Mattan. Gedaliah was the son of Pashhur. Jehucal was the son of Shelemiah. And Pashhur was the son of Malkijah. Those four men heard me say," 
Jeremiah38:2 The Lord says, 'Those who stay in this city will die of war, hunger or plague. But those who go over to the side of the Babylonians will live. They will escape with their lives. They will remain alive.'" 
Jeremiah38:3 The Lord also says, 'This city will certainly be handed over to the armies of the king of Babylonia. They will capture it.' """ 
Jeremiah38:4 Then those officials said to the king, ""That man should be put to death. What he says is making the soldiers who are left in this city lose hope. It's making all of the people lose hope too. He isn't interested in what is best for the people. In fact, he's trying to destroy them.""" 
Jeremiah38:5 He's in your hands,"" King Zedekiah answered. ""I can't do anything to oppose you.""" 
Jeremiah38:6 So they took me and put me into an empty well. It belonged to Malkijah. He was a member of the royal court. His well was in the courtyard of the guard. Zedekiah's men lowered me by ropes into the well. It didn't have any water in it. All it had was mud. And I sank down into the mud. 
Jeremiah38:7 Ebed-Melech was an official in the royal palace. He was from the land of Cush. He heard that I had been put into the well. The king was sitting by the Benjamin Gate at that time. 
Jeremiah38:8 Ebed-Melech went out of the palace. He said to the king," 
Jeremiah38:9 My king and master, everything those men have done to the prophet Jeremiah is evil. They have thrown him into an empty well. Soon there won't be any more bread in the city. Then he'll starve to death.""" 
Jeremiah38:10 So the king gave an order to Ebed-Melech from Cush. He said, ""Take 30 men from here with you. Lift the prophet Jeremiah out of the well before he dies.""" 
Jeremiah38:11 Then Ebed-Melech took the men with him. He went to a room under the place in the palace where the treasures were stored. He got some old rags and worn-out clothes from there. Then he let them down with ropes to me in the well. 
Jeremiah38:12 Ebed-Melech from Cush told me what to do. He said, ""Put these old rags and worn-out clothes under your arms. They'll pad the ropes."" So I did." 
Jeremiah38:13 Then the men pulled me up with the ropes. They lifted me out of the well. And I remained in the courtyard of the guard. 
Jeremiah38:14 Then King Zedekiah sent for me. He had me brought to the third entrance to the Lord's temple. I want to ask you something,"" the king said to me. ""Don't hide anything from me.""" 
Jeremiah38:15 I said to Zedekiah, ""Suppose I give you an answer. You will kill me, won't you? Suppose I give you good advice. You won't listen to me, will you?""" 
Jeremiah38:16 But King Zedekiah took an oath. He promised me secretly, ""I won't kill you. And I won't hand you over to those who want to take your life. That's just as sure as the Lord is alive. He's the one who has given us breath.""" 
Jeremiah38:17 So I said to Zedekiah, ""The Lord God who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'Give yourself up to the officers of the king of Babylonia. Then your life will be spared. And this city will not be burned down. You and your family will remain alive." 
Jeremiah38:18  'But what if you do not give yourself up to them? Then this city will be handed over to the Babylonians. They will burn it down. And you yourself will not escape from their powerful hands.' 
Jeremiah38:19 King Zedekiah said to me, ""I'm afraid of some of the Jews. They are the ones who have gone over to the side of the Babylonians. The Babylonians might hand me over to them. And those Jews will treat me badly.""" 
Jeremiah38:20 They won't hand you over to them,"" I replied. ""Obey the Lord. Do what I tell you to do. Then things will go well with you. Your life will be spared." 
Jeremiah38:21 Don't refuse to give yourself up. The Lord has shown me what will happen if you do. 
Jeremiah38:22 All of the women who are left in your palace will be brought out. They'll be given to the officials of the king of Babylonia. Those women will say to you, "" 'Your trusted friends have tricked you. They have gotten the best of you. Your feet are sunk down in the mud. Your friends have deserted you.'" 
Jeremiah38:23 All of your wives and children will be brought out to the Babylonians. You yourself won't escape from their powerful hands. You will be captured by the king of Babylonia. And this city will be burned down. 
Jeremiah38:24 Then Zedekiah said to me, ""Don't let anyone know about the talk we've had. If you do, you might die." 
Jeremiah38:25 Suppose the officials find out that I've talked with you. And suppose they come to you and say, 'Tell us what you said to the king. Tell us what the king said to you. Don't hide it from us. If you do, we'll kill you.'" 
Jeremiah38:26 Then tell them, 'I was begging the king not to send me back to Jonathan's house. I don't want to die there.' """ 
Jeremiah38:27 All of the officials came to me. And they questioned me. I told them everything the king had ordered me to say. None of them had heard what I told the king. So they didn't say anything else to me. 
Jeremiah38:28 I remained in the courtyard of the guard. I stayed there until the day Jerusalem was captured. Here is how Jerusalem was captured. 
Jeremiah39:1 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, marched out against it. He came with all of his armies and attacked it. It was in the ninth year that Zedekiah was king of Judah. It was in the tenth month." 
Jeremiah39:2 The city wall was broken through. It happened on the ninth day of the fourth month. It was in the 11th year of Zedekiah's rule. 
Jeremiah39:3 All of the officials of the king of Babylonia came. They took seats near the Middle Gate. Nergal-Sharezer from Samgar was there. Nebo-Sarsekim, a chief officer, was also there. So was Nergal-Sharezer, a high official. And all of the other officials of the king of Babylonia were there too." 
Jeremiah39:4 King Zedekiah and all of the soldiers saw them. Then they ran away. They left the city at night. They went by way of the king's garden. They went out through the gate between the two walls. And they headed toward the Arabah Valley. 
Jeremiah39:5 But the armies of Babylonia chased them. They caught up with Zedekiah in the flatlands near Jericho. They captured him there. And they took him to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. He was at Riblah in the land of Hamath. That's where Nebuchadnezzar decided how he would be punished." 
Jeremiah39:6 The king of Babylonia killed the sons of Zedekiah at Riblah. He forced Zedekiah to watch it with his own eyes. He also killed all of the nobles of Judah. 
Jeremiah39:7 Then he poked out Zedekiah's eyes. He put him in bronze chains. And he took him to Babylon. 
Jeremiah39:8 The Babylonians set the royal palace on fire. They also set fire to the houses of the people. And they broke down the walls of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah39:9 Nebuzaradan was commander of the royal guard. Some people still remained in the city. But he took them away to Babylon as prisoners. He also took along those who had gone over to his side. And he took the rest of the people. 
Jeremiah39:10 Nebuzaradan, the commander of the guard, left some of the poor people of Judah behind. They didn't own anything. So at that time he gave them vineyards and fields." 
Jeremiah39:11 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, had given orders about me. He had given them to Nebuzaradan, the commander of the royal guard. Nebuchadnezzar had said," 
Jeremiah39:12 Take him. Look after him. Don't harm him. Do for him anything he asks. 
Jeremiah39:13 So that's what Nebuzaradan, the commander of the guard, did. Nebushazban and Nergal-Sharezer were with him. So were all of the other officers of the king of Babylonia. Nebushazban was a chief officer. Nergal-Sharezer was a high official. All of those men" 
Jeremiah39:14 sent for me. They had me taken out of the courtyard of the guard. They turned me over to Gedaliah. They told him to take me back to my home. So I remained among my own people. Gedaliah was the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan." 
Jeremiah39:15 A message came to me from the Lord. It came while I was being kept in the courtyard of the guard. He said," 
Jeremiah39:16 Go. Speak to Ebed-Melech from Cush. Tell him, 'The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I am about to make the words I spoke against this city come true. I will not give success to it. Instead, I will bring horrible trouble on it. At that time my words will come true. You will see it with your own eyes." 
Jeremiah39:17  ' But I will save you on that day,"" announces the Lord. ""You will not be handed over to those you are afraid of." 
Jeremiah39:18 I will save you. You will not be killed with a sword. Instead, you will escape with your life. That is because you trust in me,"" announces the Lord.' """ 
Jeremiah40:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It came after Nebuzaradan, the commander of the royal guard, had set me free at Ramah. I was being held by chains when he found me. I was among all of the prisoners from Jerusalem and Judah. We were being taken to Babylon." 
Jeremiah40:2 But the commander of the guard found me. He said to me, ""The Lord your God ordered that this place be destroyed." 
Jeremiah40:3 And now he has brought it about. He has done exactly what he said he would do. All of these things have happened because you people sinned against the Lord. You didn't obey him. 
Jeremiah40:4 But today I'm setting you free from the chains that are on your wrists. Come with me to Babylon if you want to. I'll take good care of you there. But if you don't want to come, then don't. The whole country lies in front of you. Go anywhere you want to.""" 
Jeremiah40:5 But before I turned to go, Nebuzaradan continued, ""Go back to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. The king of Babylonia has appointed Gedaliah to be over the towns of Judah. Go and live with him among your people. Or go anywhere else you want to."" Ahikam was the son of Shaphan. The commander gave me food and water. He also gave me a gift. Then he let me go." 
Jeremiah40:6 So I went to Mizpah to see Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. I stayed with him. I lived among the people who were left behind in the land." 
Jeremiah40:7 Some of Judah's army officers and their men were still in the open country. They heard that the king of Babylonia had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, as governor over Judah. He had put him in charge of the men, women and children who were still there. They were the poorest people in the land. They hadn't been taken to Babylon." 
Jeremiah40:8 When the army officers and their men heard those things, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, came. So did Johanan and Jonathan, the sons of Kareah. Seraiah, the son of Tanhumeth, also came. The sons of Ephai from Netophah came too. And so did Jaazaniah, the son of the Maacathite. All of their men came with them." 
Jeremiah40:9 Gedaliah son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, took an oath to give hope to all of those men. He spoke in a kind way to them. He said, ""Don't be afraid to serve the Babylonians. Settle down in the land of Judah. Serve the king of Babylonia. Then things will go well with you." 
Jeremiah40:10 I myself will stay at Mizpah. I'll speak for you to the officials of Babylonia who come to us. But you must harvest the wine, summer fruit and olive oil. Put them in your jars. Store them up. And live in the towns you have taken over.""" 
Jeremiah40:11 All of the Jews in Moab, Ammon and Edom heard what had happened. So did the Jews in all of the other countries. They heard that the king of Babylonia had left some people behind in Judah. They also heard that he had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, as governor over them. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan." 
Jeremiah40:12 When they heard those things, all of them came back to the land of Judah. They went to Gedaliah at Mizpah. They came from all of the countries where they had been scattered. And they harvested a large amount of wine and summer fruit." 
Jeremiah40:13 Johanan and all of the other army officers who were still in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. Johanan was the son of Kareah. 
Jeremiah40:14 The officers said to Gedaliah, ""Don't you know that Baalis, the king of Ammon, has sent someone to take your life? It's Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah."" But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, didn't believe them." 
Jeremiah40:15 Then Johanan, the son of Kareah, spoke in private to Gedaliah in Mizpah. He said, ""Let me go and kill Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah. No one will know about it. Why should he take your life? Why should he cause all of the Jews who are gathered around you to be scattered? Why should he cause the people who remain in Judah to die?""" 
Jeremiah40:16 But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, spoke to Johanan, the son of Kareah. He said, ""Don't do an awful thing like that! What you are saying about Ishmael isn't true.""" 
Jeremiah41:1 In the seventh month Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, came with ten men to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah. Nethaniah was the son of Elishama. Ishmael was a member of the royal family. He had been one of the king's officers. Ishmael and his ten men were eating together at Mizpah." 
Jeremiah41:2 They got up and struck down Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, with their swords. They killed him even though the king of Babylonia had appointed him as governor over Judah. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan." 
Jeremiah41:3 Ishmael also killed all of the Jews who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah. And he killed the Babylonian soldiers who were there. 
Jeremiah41:4 On the next day, people still hadn't found out that Gedaliah had been murdered." 
Jeremiah41:5 On that day 80 men came from Shechem, Shiloh and Samaria. They had shaved off their beards. They had torn their clothes. And they had cut themselves. They brought grain offerings and incense with them. They took them to the Lord's house." 
Jeremiah41:6 Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, went out from Mizpah to meet them. He was sobbing as he went. When he met them, he said, ""Come to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam.""" 
Jeremiah41:7 They went with him into the city. Then Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, and the men who were with him killed them. And they threw them into an empty well." 
Jeremiah41:8 But ten of the men had spoken to Ishmael. They had said, ""Don't kill us! We have some wheat and barley. We also have olive oil and honey. We've hidden all of it in a field."" So he let them alone. He didn't kill them along with the others." 
Jeremiah41:9 But he had thrown all of the bodies of the men he had killed into the empty well. That included Gedaliah's body. The well was the one King Asa had made. He had made it when he strengthened Mizpah against attack by Baasha, the king of Israel. Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, filled it with the bodies of those he had killed." 
Jeremiah41:10 Ishmael made prisoners of all the rest of the people who were in Mizpah. That included women who were members of the royal court. It also included all of the others who were left there. Nebuzaradan had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, over them. Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, took them as prisoners. Then he started out to go across the Jordan River to the land of Ammon. Nebuzaradan was the commander of the royal guard." 
Jeremiah41:11 Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all of the other army officers who were with him were told what had happened. They heard about all of the crimes Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, had committed." 
Jeremiah41:12 So they brought all of their men together. Then they went to fight against Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah. They caught up with him near the large pool in Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:13 Ishmael had many people with him. They saw Johanan, the son of Kareah. And they saw the other army officers who were with him. So the people who had been forced to go with Ishmael were glad." 
Jeremiah41:14 All those whom Ishmael had taken as prisoners at Mizpah turned and went over to the side of Johanan, the son of Kareah." 
Jeremiah41:15 But Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, and eight of his men escaped from Johanan. They ran away to the land of Ammon." 
Jeremiah41:16 Then Johanan, the son of Kareah, led away all of the people from Mizpah who were still alive. All of the other army officers who were with Johanan helped him do it. He had taken them away from Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah. That happened after Ishmael had murdered Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. The people Johanan had taken away included the soldiers, women, children and court officials he had brought from Gibeon." 
Jeremiah41:17 They went on their way. They stopped at Geruth Kimham near Bethlehem. They were going to Egypt. 
Jeremiah41:18 They wanted to get away from the Babylonians. They were afraid of them because Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, had killed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. The king of Babylonia had appointed Gedaliah as governor over Judah." 
Jeremiah42:1 Then all of the army officers approached me. They included Johanan, the son of Kareah, and Jezaniah, the son of Hoshaiah. All of the people from the least important of them to the most important also came." 
Jeremiah42:2 All of them said to me, ""Please listen to our appeal. Pray to the Lord your God. Pray for all of us who are left here. Once there were many of us. But as you can see, only a few of us are left now." 
Jeremiah42:3 So pray to the Lord your God. Pray that he'll tell us where we should go. Pray that he'll tell us what we should do. 
Jeremiah42:4 I've heard you,"" I replied. ""I'll certainly pray to the Lord your God. I'll do what you have asked me to do. In fact, I'll tell you everything the Lord says. I won't keep anything back from you.""" 
Jeremiah42:5 Then they said to me, ""We'll do everything the Lord your God sends you to tell us to do. If we don't, may he be a true and faithful witness against us." 
Jeremiah42:6 It doesn't matter whether what you say is in our favor or not. We're asking you to pray to the Lord our God. And we'll obey him. Things will go well with us. That's because we will obey the Lord our God. 
Jeremiah42:7 Ten days later a message came to me from the Lord. 
Jeremiah42:8 So I sent for Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all of the other army officers who were with him. I also gathered together all of the people from the least important of them to the most important." 
Jeremiah42:9 I said to all of them, ""The Lord is the God of Israel. You asked me to present your appeal to him." 
Jeremiah42:10 He told me, 'Stay in this land. Then I will build you up. I will not tear you down. I will plant you. I will not pull you up by the roots. I am very sad that I had to bring all of this trouble on you." 
Jeremiah42:11  'Do not be afraid of the king of Babylonia. You are afraid of him now. Do not be,' announces the Lord. 'I am with you. I will keep you safe. I will save you from his powerful hands." 
Jeremiah42:12 I will show you my loving concern. Then he will have concern for you. And he will let you return to your land.' 
Jeremiah42:13 But suppose you say, 'We won't stay in this land.' If you do, you will be disobeying the Lord your God." 
Jeremiah42:14 And suppose you say, 'No! We'll go and live in Egypt. There we won't have to face war anymore. We won't hear the trumpets of war. And we won't get hungry.'" 
Jeremiah42:15 Then listen to what the Lord says to you who are left in Judah. He is the Lord who rules over all. He is the God of Israel. He says, 'Have you already made up your minds to go to Egypt? Are you going to settle down there?" 
Jeremiah42:16  'Then the war you fear will catch up with you there. The hunger you are afraid of will follow you into Egypt. And you will die there. 
Jeremiah42:17 In fact, that will happen to all those who go and settle in Egypt. All of them will die of war, hunger and plague. Not one of them will live. None of them will escape the trouble I will bring on them.'" 
Jeremiah42:18 He is the Lord who rules over all. He is the God of Israel. He says, 'My burning anger has been poured out on those who used to live in Jerusalem. In the same way, it will be poured out on you when you go to Egypt. People will call down curses on you. They will be shocked at you. They will say bad things about you. And they will bring shame on you. You will never see this place again.'" 
Jeremiah42:19 The Lord has spoken to you who are left in Judah. He has said, 'Do not go to Egypt.' Here is something you can be sure of. I am warning you about it today." 
Jeremiah42:20 You made a big mistake when you asked me to pray to the Lord your God. You said, 'Pray to the Lord our God for us. Tell us everything he says. We'll do it.'" 
Jeremiah42:21 I have told you today what the Lord your God wants you to do. But you still haven't obeyed him. You haven't done anything he sent me to tell you to do. 
Jeremiah42:22 So here is something else you can be sure of. You will die of war, hunger and plague. You want to go and settle down in Egypt. But you will die there.""" 
Jeremiah43:1 I finished telling the people everything the Lord their God had said. I told them everything he had sent me to tell them. 
Jeremiah43:2 After that, Azariah, the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan, the son of Kareah, spoke to me. And all of the proud men joined them. They said, ""You are lying! The Lord our God hasn't sent you to speak to us. He hasn't told you to say, 'You must not go to Egypt and settle down there.'" 
Jeremiah43:3 But Baruch, the son of Neriah, is turning you against us. He wants us to be handed over to the Babylonians. Then they can kill us. Or they can take us away to Babylon.""" 
Jeremiah43:4 So Johanan, the son of Kareah, disobeyed the Lord's command. So did all of the other army officers and all of the people. They didn't stay in the land of Judah." 
Jeremiah43:5 Instead Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all of the other army officers led away all of the people who were left in Judah. Those people had returned to Judah from all of the nations where they had been scattered." 
Jeremiah43:6 Johanan and the other officers also led away many people Nebuzaradan had left in Mizpah. They included men, women and children. They also included women who were members of the royal court. Nebuzaradan had left them with Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. He had also left them with the prophet Jeremiah and Baruch, the son of Neriah. Nebuzaradan was commander of the royal guard. Ahikam was the son of Shaphan." 
Jeremiah43:7 So the Jewish leaders disobeyed the Lord. They took everyone to Egypt. They went all the way to Tahpanhes. 
Jeremiah43:8 In Tahpanhes a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Jeremiah43:9 Make sure the Jews are watching you. Then get some large stones. Go to the entrance to Pharaoh's house in Tahpanhes. Bury the stones in the clay under the brick walkway there. 
Jeremiah43:10 Then tell the Jews, 'The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I will send for my servant Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. And I will set his throne over these stones that are buried here. He will set up his royal tent over them." 
Jeremiah43:11 He will come and attack Egypt. He will bring death to those I have appointed to die. He will take away as prisoners those I have appointed to be taken away. And he will kill with swords those I have appointed to be killed. 
Jeremiah43:12  ' He will set the temples of the gods of Egypt on fire. He will burn their temples down. He will take the statues of their gods away. Nebuchadnezzar will be like a shepherd who wraps his coat around himself. He will wrap Egypt around himself. And he will leave there unharmed. 
Jeremiah43:13 At Heliopolis in Egypt he will smash the sacred pillars to pieces. And he will burn down the temples of the gods of Egypt. ' 
Jeremiah44:1 A message came to me from the Lord about all of the Jews who were living in Lower Egypt. They were living in Migdol, Tahpanhes and Memphis. It was also about all of the Jews who were living in Upper Egypt." 
Jeremiah44:2 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He said, ""You saw all of the trouble I brought on Jerusalem. I also brought it on all of the towns in Judah. Today they lie there deserted and destroyed." 
Jeremiah44:3 That is because of the evil things their people did. They made me very angry. They burned incense to other gods. And they worshiped them. They and you and your people of long ago never had anything to do with those gods before. 
Jeremiah44:4 Again and again I sent my servants the prophets. They said, 'Don't worship other gods! The Lord hates it!'" 
Jeremiah44:5 But the people didn't listen. They didn't pay any attention. They didn't turn from their sinful ways. They didn't stop burning incense to other gods. 
Jeremiah44:6 So my burning anger was poured out. It blazed out against the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem. It made them the dry and empty places they are today. 
Jeremiah44:7 The Lord God who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""Why do you want to bring all of this trouble on yourselves? You are cutting off from Judah its men and women. You are cutting off the children and babies. Not one of you will be left." 
Jeremiah44:8 Why do you want to make me angry with the gods your hands have made? Why do you burn incense to the gods of Egypt, where you have come to live? You will destroy yourselves. All of the nations on earth will call down curses on you. They will bring shame on you." 
Jeremiah44:9 Have you forgotten the evil things your people did long ago? The kings and queens of Judah did those same things. So did you and your wives. They were done in the land of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem. 
Jeremiah44:10 To this very day the people of Judah have not made themselves low in my sight. They have not shown any respect for me. They have not obeyed my law. They have not followed the rules I gave you and your people long ago. 
Jeremiah44:11 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I have decided to bring horrible trouble on you. I will destroy the whole land of Judah." 
Jeremiah44:12 I will destroy the people of Judah who are left. They had decided to go to Egypt and settle down there. But all of them will die in Egypt. They will die of war or hunger. All of them will die, from the least important of them to the most important. They will die of war or hunger. People will call down curses on them. They will be shocked at them. They will say bad things about them. And they will bring shame on them." 
Jeremiah44:13 I will use war, hunger and plague to punish the Jews who live in Egypt. I punished Jerusalem in the same way." 
Jeremiah44:14 None of the people of Judah who have gone to live in Egypt will escape. Not one of them will live to return to Judah. They long to return and live there. But only a few will escape from Egypt and go back. 
Jeremiah44:15 All of the Jews who were living in Lower and Upper Egypt gathered to give me their answer. A large crowd had come together. It included men who knew that their wives were burning incense to other gods. Their wives were there with them. All of them said to me," 
Jeremiah44:16 We won't listen to the message you have spoken to us in the Lord's name! 
Jeremiah44:17 We will certainly do everything we said we would. We'll burn incense to the goddess who is called the Queen of Heaven. We'll pour out drink offerings to her. We'll do just as we and our people before us did. Our kings and our officials also did it. All of us did it in the towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem. At that time we had plenty of food. We were well off. We didn't suffer any harm. 
Jeremiah44:18 But then we stopped burning incense to the Queen of Heaven. We stopped pouring out drink offerings to her. And ever since that time we haven't had anything. Instead, we've been dying of war and hunger.""" 
Jeremiah44:19 The women added, ""We burned incense to the Queen of Heaven. We poured out drink offerings to her. And our husbands knew we were making cakes that looked like her. They knew we were pouring out drink offerings to her.""" 
Jeremiah44:20 Then I spoke to all of the people who were answering me. I spoke to men and women alike. I said," 
Jeremiah44:21 Didn't the Lord know you were burning incense in the towns of Judah? Didn't he care that you were also doing it in the streets of Jerusalem? You and your people before you were doing it. Your kings and officials were doing it too. So were the rest of the people in the land. 
Jeremiah44:22 The Lord couldn't put up with the evil things you were doing anymore. He hated the things you did. So people called down curses on your land. It became a dry and empty desert. No one lived there. And that's the way it still is today. 
Jeremiah44:23 You have burned incense to other gods. You have sinned against the Lord. You haven't obeyed him or his law. You haven't followed his rules. You haven't lived up to the terms of the covenant he made with you. That's why all of this trouble has come on you. You have seen it with your own eyes. 
Jeremiah44:24 Then I spoke to all of the people. That included the women. I said, ""All you people of Judah in Egypt, listen to the Lord's message." 
Jeremiah44:25 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, 'You and your wives have done what you promised you would do. You said, ""We will certainly keep the promises we made to the Queen of Heaven. We'll burn incense to her. We'll pour out drink offerings to her."" ' ""Go ahead then. Do what you said you would! Keep your promises!" 
Jeremiah44:26 But listen to the Lord's message. Listen, all you Jews living in Egypt. 'I take an oath in my own great name,' says the Lord. 'I promise that no one from Judah who lives anywhere in Egypt will ever again pray in my name. None of them will ever take an oath and say, ""You can be sure that the Lord and King is alive.""" 
Jeremiah44:27  'I am watching over them to do them harm and not good. The Jews in Egypt will die of war and hunger until all of them are destroyed. 
Jeremiah44:28 Some will not be killed. They will return to Judah from Egypt. But they will be very few. Then all of the people of Judah who came to live in Egypt will know the truth. They will know whether what I say or what they say will come true. 
Jeremiah44:29  'I will give you a miraculous sign that I will punish you in this place,' announces the Lord. 'Then you can be sure that my warnings of harm against you will come true.'" 
Jeremiah44:30 The Lord says, 'I am going to hand Pharaoh Hophra over to his enemies who want to take his life. In the same way, I handed King Zedekiah over to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. He was the enemy who wanted to take Zedekiah's life.' "" Hophra was king of Egypt." 
Jeremiah45:1 I, the prophet Jeremiah, talked to Baruch, the son of Neriah. It was in the fourth year that Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, was king of Judah. But it was after Baruch had written down on a scroll the words I was telling him to write. I said," 
Jeremiah45:2 The Lord is the God of Israel. Baruch, he says to you," 
Jeremiah45:3 'You have said, ""How terrible it is for me! The Lord has added sorrow to my pain. I'm worn out from all of my groaning. I can't find any rest."" ' """ 
Jeremiah45:4 The Lord said, ""Tell Baruch, 'I say, ""I will destroy what I have built up. I will pull up by the roots what I have planted. I will do it all through the earth." 
Jeremiah45:5 So should you long for great things for yourself? Do not long for them. I will bring trouble on everyone,"" announces the Lord. ""But no matter where you go, I will let you escape with your life."" ' """ 
Jeremiah46:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It was about the nations. 
Jeremiah46:2 Here is what the Lord says about Egypt. Here is his message against the army of Pharaoh Neco. He was king of Egypt. Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, won the battle over his army. That happened at Carchemish on the Euphrates River. It was in the fourth year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah. He was the son of Josiah. The message says," 
Jeremiah46:3 Egyptians, prepare your shields! Prepare large and small shields alike! March out for battle!" 
Jeremiah46:4 Get the horses and chariots ready to ride! Take up your battle positions! Put your helmets on! Shine up your spears! Put on your armor! 
Jeremiah46:5 What do I see? The Egyptians are terrified. They are pulling back. Their soldiers are losing. They run away as fast as they can. They do not look back. There is terror on every side,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah46:6 Those who run fast can't get away. Those who are strong can't escape. In the north by the Euphrates River they trip and fall. 
Jeremiah46:7 Who is this that rises like the Nile River? Who rises like rivers of rushing waters? 
Jeremiah46:8 Egypt rises like the Nile River. It rises like rivers of rushing waters. Egypt says, 'I will rise and cover the earth. I'll destroy cities and their people.'" 
Jeremiah46:9 Charge, you horses! Drive fast, you chariot drivers! March on, you soldiers! March on, you men of Cush and Put who carry shields. March on, you men of Lydia who draw bows." 
Jeremiah46:10 But that day belongs to me. I am the Lord who rules over all. It is a day for me to pay back my enemies. The sword will eat until it is satisfied. It will drink until it has no more thirst for blood. I am the Lord. I am the Lord who rules over all. I will offer a sacrifice. I will offer it in the land of the north by the Euphrates River. 
Jeremiah46:11 People of Egypt, go up to Gilead and get some healing lotion. But no matter what you try, you will not be healed. There isn't any healing for you." 
Jeremiah46:12 The nations will hear about your shame. Your cries of pain will fill the earth. One soldier will trip over another. Both of them will fall down together. 
Jeremiah46:13 Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, was coming to attack Egypt. Here is the message the Lord spoke to me about it. He said," 
Jeremiah46:14 Egyptians, here is what I want you to announce in your land. Announce it in Migdol. Also announce it in Memphis and Tahpanhes. Say, 'Take up your battle positions! Get ready! The sword eats up those who are around you.'" 
Jeremiah46:15 Why are your soldiers lying on the ground? They can't stand, because I bring them down." 
Jeremiah46:16 They will trip again and again. They will fall over one another. They will say, 'Get up. Let's go back home. Let's return to our own people and our own lands. Let's get away from the swords that will bring us great harm.'" 
Jeremiah46:17 The Egyptian soldiers will cry out, 'Pharaoh is our king. But he's only a loud noise. He has missed his chance to win the battle.'" 
Jeremiah46:18 I am the King. My name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. Someone will come who is like Mount Tabor among the mountains. He is like Mount Carmel by the Mediterranean Sea. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the King." 
Jeremiah46:19 So pack your belongings, you who live in Egypt. You will be taken away from your land. Memphis will be completely destroyed. Its buildings will be broken down. No one will live there." 
Jeremiah46:20 Egypt is like a beautiful young cow. But Nebuchadnezzar is coming against her from the north. He will bite her like a fly. 
Jeremiah46:21 Hired soldiers are in Egypt's army. They are like fat calves. All of them will turn and run away. They will not hold their positions. The day of trouble is coming on them. The time for them to be punished is near. 
Jeremiah46:22 The Egyptians will hiss like a snake that is trying to get away. A powerful army will advance against them. Their enemies will come against them with axes. They will be like those who cut down trees. 
Jeremiah46:23 Egypt is like a thick forest. But they will chop it down,"" announces the Lord. ""There are more of them than there are locusts. In fact, they can't even be counted." 
Jeremiah46:24 The nation of Egypt will be put to shame. It will be handed over to the people of the north. 
Jeremiah46:25 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I am about to punish Amon, the god of Thebes. I will also punish Pharaoh. I will punish Egypt and its gods and kings. And I will punish those who depend on Pharaoh." 
Jeremiah46:26 I will hand them over to those who are trying to kill them. I will give them to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, and his officers. But later, many people will live in Egypt again as in times past,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah46:27 People of Jacob, do not be afraid. You are my servant. Israel, do not be terrified. I will bring you safely out of a place far away. I will bring your children back from the land where they were taken. Your people will have peace and security again. And no one will make them afraid." 
Jeremiah46:28 People of Jacob, do not be afraid. You are my servant. I am with you,"" announces the Lord. ""I will completely destroy all of the nations among which I scatter you. But I will not completely destroy you. I will correct you. But I will be fair. I will punish you in a way that is fair and right.""" 
Jeremiah47:1 A message came to me from the Lord. It was about the Philistines before Pharaoh attacked Gaza. 
Jeremiah47:2 The Lord said, ""The armies of Babylonia are like waters rising in the north. They will become a great flood. They will flow over the land and everything in it. They will flow over the towns and those who live in them. The people will cry out. All those who live in the land will sob." 
Jeremiah47:3 They will sob when they hear galloping horses. They will sob at the noise of enemy chariots. They will sob at the rumble of their wheels. Fathers will not even try to help their children. Their hands will not be able to help them. 
Jeremiah47:4 The day has come to destroy all of the Philistines. The time has come to cut off all those who could help Tyre and Sidon. I am about to destroy the Philistines. I will not leave anyone alive who came from the coasts of Crete. 
Jeremiah47:5 The people of Gaza will be so sad they will shave their heads. And Ashkelon's people will be silent. You who remain on the flatlands, how long will you cut yourselves?" 
Jeremiah47:6  'Sword of the Lord!' you cry out. 'How long will it be until you rest? Return to the place you came from. Stop killing us! Be still!' 
Jeremiah47:7 But how can my sword rest when I have given it a command? I have ordered it to attack Ashkelon and the Philistine coast. 
Jeremiah48:1 Here is what the Lord says about Moab. The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""How terrible it will be for Nebo! It will be destroyed. Kiriathaim will be captured. It will be put to shame. Its fort will be broken down. It will be put to shame." 
Jeremiah48:2 Moab will not be praised anymore. In Heshbon people will plan its fall from power. They will say, 'Come. Let's put an end to that nation.' City of Madmen, you too will be silent because you are sad. My sword will hunt you down." 
Jeremiah48:3 Listen to the cries from Horonaim. The town is being completely destroyed. 
Jeremiah48:4 Moab will be broken. Her little ones will cry out. 
Jeremiah48:5 The people go up the road to Luhith. They are sobbing bitterly as they go. Loud cries are heard on the road down to Horonaim. People cry out because the town is being destroyed. 
Jeremiah48:6 People of Moab run away! Run for your lives! Become like a lonely bush in the desert. 
Jeremiah48:7 You trust in the things you can do. You trust in your riches. So you too will be taken away as prisoners. Your god Chemosh will be carried away. So will its priests and officials. 
Jeremiah48:8 The one who is going to destroy you will come against every town. Not even one of them will escape. The valley and the high flatlands will be destroyed. I, the Lord, have spoken." 
Jeremiah48:9 Sprinkle salt all over Moab. It will be completely destroyed. Its towns will be a dry and empty desert. No one will live in them. 
Jeremiah48:10 May a person who is lazy when he does my work be under my curse! May anyone who keeps his sword from killing be under my curse! 
Jeremiah48:11 Moab has been at peace and rest from its earliest days. It is like wine that has not been shaken up. It has not been poured from one jar to another. Moab's people have not been taken away from their land. They are like wine that tastes as it always did. Its smell has not changed at all. 
Jeremiah48:12 But other days are coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time I will send people who pour wine from jars. They will pour Moab out like wine. They will empty its jars. They will smash its jugs." 
Jeremiah48:13 Then Moab's people will be ashamed of their god Chemosh. They will be ashamed just as the people of Israel were when they trusted in their god at Bethel. 
Jeremiah48:14 How can you say, 'We are soldiers. We are men who are brave in battle'?" 
Jeremiah48:15 Moab will be destroyed. Its enemies will march into its towns. Her finest young men will die in battle,"" announces the King. His name is The Lord Who Rules Over All." 
Jeremiah48:16 The fall of Moab is near. Its time of trouble will come quickly. 
Jeremiah48:17 All you who live around it, sob over its people. Be sad, you who know how famous Moab is. Say, 'Its powerful ruler's rod is broken! His glorious staff is smashed.'" 
Jeremiah48:18 Come down from your glorious city, you who live in Dibon. Come and sit on the thirsty ground. The one who destroys your country will come up and attack you. Your enemies will destroy your cities that have high walls around them." 
Jeremiah48:19 Stand by the road and watch, you who live in Aroer. Ask the men who are running away. Ask the women who are escaping. Ask them, 'What has happened?'" 
Jeremiah48:20 Moab has been put to shame. It has been destroyed. Sob and cry out! Tell everyone Moab has been destroyed. Announce it by the Arnon River. 
Jeremiah48:21 The high flatlands have been judged. So have Holon, Jahzah and Mephaath." 
Jeremiah48:22 Dibon, Nebo and Beth Diblathaim have been judged." 
Jeremiah48:23 So have Kiriathaim, Beth Gamul and Beth Meon." 
Jeremiah48:24 Kerioth and Bozrah have also been judged. And so have all of the towns of Moab, far and near alike." 
Jeremiah48:25 Moab's power is gone. Its strength is broken,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:26 Moab's people think they are better than I am. So let their enemies make them drunk. Let the people get sick and throw up. Let them roll around in the mess they have made. Let people laugh at them. 
Jeremiah48:27 Moab, you laughed at Israel, didn't you? Were Israel's people caught among robbers? Is that why you shake your head at them? Is that why you make fun of them every time you talk about them?" 
Jeremiah48:28 Leave your towns, you who live in Moab. Go and live among the rocks. Be like a dove that makes its nest at the mouth of a cave." 
Jeremiah48:29 We have heard all about Moab's pride. We have heard how very proud they are. They think they are so much better than others. Their pride reaches deep down inside their hearts. 
Jeremiah48:30 I know how rude they are. But it will not get them anywhere,"" announces the Lord. ""Their bragging does not accomplish anything." 
Jeremiah48:31 So I cry out over Moab. I cry for all of Moab's people. I groan for the men of Kir Hareseth. 
Jeremiah48:32 I sob over you as Jazer sobs, you vines of Sibmah. Your branches used to spread out. They went all the way down to the Dead Sea. They reached as far as the sea of Jazer. The one who destroys your country has taken away your grapes and ripe fruit." 
Jeremiah48:33 Joy has left your orchards. Gladness is gone from your fields. I have stopped the flow of juice from your winepresses. No one stomps on your grapes with shouts of joy. There are shouts. But they are not shouts of joy. 
Jeremiah48:34 The sound of their cry rises from Heshbon. It rises as far as Elealeh and Jahaz. It rises from Zoar. It goes all the way to Horonaim and Eglath Shelishiyah. Even the waters at Nimrim are dried up. 
Jeremiah48:35 In Moab people sacrifice offerings on the high places. They burn incense to their gods. But I will put an end to those people,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:36 Like a flute my heart sings a song of sadness for Moab. It sings like a flute for the men of Kir Hareseth. The wealth they had gotten is gone. 
Jeremiah48:37 Every head is shaved. Every beard is cut off. Every hand is cut. And every waist is covered with black cloth. 
Jeremiah48:38 Sobbing is the only sound in Moab. It is heard on all of its roofs. It is heard in the market places. I have broken Moab like a jar that no one wants,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:39 How broken Moab is! How the people sob! They turn away from others because they are so ashamed. All those who are around them laugh at them. They are shocked at them. 
Jeremiah48:40 The Lord says, ""Look! Nebuchadnezzar is like an eagle diving down. He is spreading his wings over Moab." 
Jeremiah48:41 Kerioth will be captured. Its forts will be taken. At that time the hearts of Moab's soldiers will tremble in fear. They will be like the heart of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah48:42 Moab will be destroyed as a nation. That is because its people thought they were better than I am. 
Jeremiah48:43 You people of Moab,"" announces the Lord, ""terror, a pit and a trap are waiting for you." 
Jeremiah48:44 Anyone who runs away from the terror will fall into the pit. Anyone who climbs out of the pit will be caught in the trap. The time is coming when I will punish Moab,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah48:45 In the shadow of Heshbon those who are trying to escape stand helpless. A fire has blazed out from Heshbon. Flames have come out from Sihon's city. It burns the foreheads of Moab's people. It burns the skulls of those who brag loudly. 
Jeremiah48:46 How terrible it will be for you, Moab! Those who worship Chemosh are destroyed. Your sons are being taken to another country. Your daughters are taken away as prisoners." 
Jeremiah48:47 But in days to come I will bless Moab with great success again,"" announces the Lord. That's the report about how the Lord said he would judge Moab." 
Jeremiah49:1 Here is what the Lord says about the people of Ammon. He says, ""Doesn't Israel have any sons? Doesn't Israel have anyone to take over the family property? Then why has the god Molech taken over Gad? Why do those who worship him live in its towns?" 
Jeremiah49:2 But a new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time I will sound the battle cry. I will sound it against Rabbah in the land of Ammon. It will become a pile of broken-down buildings. The villages that are around it will be set on fire. Then Israel will drive out those who drove her out,"" says the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:3 Heshbon, sob over Ai! It is destroyed! Cry out, you who live in Rabbah! Put on black clothes and sob. Run here and there inside the walls. Your god Molech will be carried away. So will its priests and officials." 
Jeremiah49:4 Why do you brag about your valleys? You brag that they produce so many crops. You are an unfaithful country. You trust in your riches. You say, 'Who will attack me?'" 
Jeremiah49:5 I will bring terror on you. It will come from all those who are around you,"" announces the Lord. He is the Lord who rules over all. ""Every one of you will be driven away. No one will bring back those who escape." 
Jeremiah49:6 But after that, I will bless the people of Ammon with great success again,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:7 Here is what the Lord says about Edom. The Lord who rules over all says, ""Isn't there wisdom in the town of Teman anymore? Can't those who are wise give advice? Has their wisdom disappeared completely?" 
Jeremiah49:8 Turn around and run away, you who live in Dedan. Hide in deep caves. I will bring trouble on Esau's family line. I will do it at the time I punish them." 
Jeremiah49:9 Edom, suppose grape pickers came to harvest your vines. They would still leave a few grapes. Suppose robbers came at night. They would steal only as much as they wanted." 
Jeremiah49:10 But I will strip everything away from Esau's people. I will uncover their hiding places. They will not be able to hide anywhere. Their children, relatives and neighbors will die. Then Esau's people will be gone." 
Jeremiah49:11 Leave your children whose fathers have died. I will watch over them. Your widows can also trust in me. 
Jeremiah49:12 The Lord says, ""What if those who do not have to drink the cup must drink it anyway? Then shouldn't you be punished? You will certainly be punished. You must drink the cup." 
Jeremiah49:13 I make a promise with an oath in my own name. Bozrah will be destroyed,"" announces the Lord. ""People will be shocked at it. They will bring shame on it. They will call down curses on it. And all of its towns will be destroyed forever.""" 
Jeremiah49:14 I've heard a message from the Lord. A messenger was sent to the nations. The Lord told him to say, ""Gather yourselves together to attack Edom! Prepare for battle!""" 
Jeremiah49:15 The Lord says to Edom, ""I will make you weak among the nations. They will look down on you." 
Jeremiah49:16 You live in the safety of the rocks. You live on top of the hills. But the terror you stir up has now turned against you. Your proud heart has tricked you. You build your nest as high as an eagle does. But I will bring you down from there,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:17 People of Edom, all those who pass by you will be shocked. They will make fun of you because of all of your wounds." 
Jeremiah49:18 Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed. So were the towns that were near them,"" says the Lord. ""You will be just like them. No one will live in your land. No one will stay there even for a short time." 
Jeremiah49:19 I will be like a lion coming up from the bushes by the Jordan River. I will hunt in rich grasslands. I will chase you from your land in an instant. What nation will I choose to do it? Which one will I appoint? Is anyone like me? Who would dare to argue with me? What leader can stand against me? 
Jeremiah49:20 So listen to what the Lord has planned against the people of Edom. Hear what he has planned against those who live in Teman. Edom's young people will be dragged away. The Lord will completely destroy their grasslands because of them. 
Jeremiah49:21 When the earth hears Edom fall, it will shake. The people's cries will be heard all the way to the Red Sea." 
Jeremiah49:22 Look! An enemy is coming. It's like an eagle diving down. It will spread its wings over Bozrah. At that time the hearts of Edom's soldiers will tremble in fear. They'll be like the heart of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah49:23 Here is what the Lord says about Damascus. He says, ""The people of Hamath and Arpad are terrified. They have heard bad news. They have lost all hope. They are troubled like the rolling sea." 
Jeremiah49:24 The people of Damascus have become weak. They have turned to run away. Panic has taken hold of them. Suffering and pain have taken hold of them. Their pain is like the pain of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah49:25 Why hasn't the famous city been deserted? It is the town I take delight in. 
Jeremiah49:26 You can be sure its young men will fall dead in the streets. All of its soldiers will be put to death at that time,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Jeremiah49:27 I will set the walls of Damascus on fire. It will burn up the strong towers of King Ben-Hadad. 
Jeremiah49:28 Here is what the Lord says about the land of Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor. Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, was planning to attack them. The Lord says to the armies of Babylonia, ""Prepare for battle. Attack Kedar. Destroy the people of the east." 
Jeremiah49:29 Their tents and flocks will be taken away from them. Their tents will be carried off. All of their goods and camels will be stolen. People will shout to them, 'There is terror on every side!'" 
Jeremiah49:30 Run away quickly! You who live in Hazor, stay in deep caves,"" announces the Lord. ""Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, has made plans against you. He has decided to attack you." 
Jeremiah49:31 Armies of Babylonia, prepare for battle. Attack a nation that feels secure. Its people do not have any worries,"" announces the Lord. ""That nation does not have gates or heavy metal bars. Its people live all alone." 
Jeremiah49:32 Their camels will be stolen. Their large herds will be taken away. I will scatter to the winds those who are in places far away. I will bring trouble on them from every side,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:33 Hazor will become a home for wild dogs. It will be a dry and empty desert forever. No one will live in that land. No one will stay there even for a short time. 
Jeremiah49:34 A message came to me from the Lord. It was about Elam. It came shortly after Zedekiah became king of Judah. 
Jeremiah49:35 The Lord who rules over all said, ""Elam's bow is the secret of its strength. But I will break it." 
Jeremiah49:36 I will bring the four winds against Elam. I will bring them from all four directions. I will scatter Elam's people to the four winds. They will be taken away to every nation on earth. 
Jeremiah49:37 I will use Elam's enemies to smash them. Those who are trying to take their lives will kill them. I will bring trouble on Elam's people. My anger will burn against them,"" announces the Lord. ""I will chase them with swords. I will hunt them down until I have destroyed them." 
Jeremiah49:38 I will set up my throne in Elam. I will destroy its king and officials,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah49:39 But in days to come I will bless Elam with great success again,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:1 Here is the message the Lord spoke through me about the city of Babylon and the land of Babylonia. He said," 
Jeremiah50:2 Announce this message among the nations. Lift up a banner. Let the nations hear the message. Do not keep anything back. Say, 'Babylon will be captured. The god Bel will be put to shame. Marduk will be filled with terror. Babylon's gods will be put to shame. The gods its people made will be filled with terror.'" 
Jeremiah50:3 A nation from the north will attack it. That nation will destroy Babylonia. No one will live there. People and animals alike will run away. 
Jeremiah50:4 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time the people of Israel and Judah will gather together. They will come in tears to me. I am the Lord their God." 
Jeremiah50:5 They will ask how to get to Zion. Then they will turn their faces toward it. They will come and join themselves to me. They will enter into the covenant I make with them. It will last forever. It will never be forgotten. 
Jeremiah50:6 My people have been like lost sheep. Their shepherds have led them down the wrong path. They have caused them to wander in the mountains. They have wandered over mountains and hills. They have forgotten that I am their true resting place. 
Jeremiah50:7 Everyone who found them destroyed them. Their enemies said, 'We aren't guilty. They sinned against the Lord. He gave them everything they needed. He has always been Israel's hope.'" 
Jeremiah50:8 People of Judah, run away from Babylon. Leave the land of Babylonia. Be like the goats that lead the flock." 
Jeremiah50:9 I will stir up great nations that will join forces against Babylon. I will bring them from the land of the north. They will take up their battle positions against Babylon. They will come from the north and capture it. Their arrows will be like skilled soldiers. They will not miss their mark. 
Jeremiah50:10 So the riches of Babylonia will be taken away. All those who steal from it will have more than enough,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:11 People of Babylonia, you have stolen what belongs to me. That has made you glad and full of joy. You dance around like a young cow on a threshing floor. You neigh like stallions." 
Jeremiah50:12 Because of that, you will bring great shame on your land. Your whole nation will be dishonored. It will become the least important of the nations. It will become a dry and empty desert." 
Jeremiah50:13 Because I am angry with it, no one will live there. It will be completely deserted. All those who pass by it will be shocked. They will make fun of it because of all of its wounds." 
Jeremiah50:14 All you who draw the bow, take up your battle positions around Babylon. Shoot at it! Do not spare any arrows! Its people have sinned against me." 
Jeremiah50:15 Shout against them on every side! They are giving up. The towers of the city are falling. Its walls are being pulled down. I am paying its people back. So pay them back yourselves. Do to them what they have done to others. 
Jeremiah50:16 Do not leave anyone in Babylonia to plant the fields. Do not leave anyone to harvest the grain. Let each of them return to his own people. Let him run away to his own land. If he doesn't, his enemy's sword will bring him great harm." 
Jeremiah50:17 Israel is like a scattered flock that lions have chased away. The first lion that ate them up was the king of Assyria. The last one that broke their bones was Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia.""" 
Jeremiah50:18 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""I punished the king of Assyria. In the same way, I will punish the king of Babylonia and his land." 
Jeremiah50:19 But I will bring Israel back to their own grasslands. I will feed them on Mount Carmel and in Bashan. I will satisfy their hunger on the hills of Ephraim and Gilead. 
Jeremiah50:20 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time people will search for Israel's guilt. But they will not find any. They will search for Judah's sins. But they will not find any. That is because I will forgive the people I have spared." 
Jeremiah50:21 Enemies of Babylonia, attack their land of Merathaim. Make war against those who live in Pekod. Chase them and kill them. Destroy them completely,"" announces the Lord. ""Do everything I have commanded you to do." 
Jeremiah50:22 The noise of battle is heard in the land. It is the noise of a great city being destroyed! 
Jeremiah50:23 It has been broken to pieces. It was the hammer that broke the whole earth. How empty Babylonia is among the nations! 
Jeremiah50:24 Babylonia, I set a trap for you. And you were caught before you knew it. You were found and captured. That is because you opposed me." 
Jeremiah50:25 I have opened up my storeroom. I have brought out the weapons I use when I am angry. I am the Lord and King who rules over all. I have work to do in the land of the Babylonians. 
Jeremiah50:26 So come against it from far away. Open up its storerooms. Stack everything up like piles of grain. Completely destroy that country. Do not leave anyone alive there. 
Jeremiah50:27 Kill all of its people. Let them die in battle. How terrible it will be for them! Their time to be judged has come. Now they will be punished. 
Jeremiah50:28 Listen to those who have escaped. Listen to those who have returned from Babylonia. They are announcing in Zion how I have paid Babylonia back. I have paid it back for destroying my temple. 
Jeremiah50:29 Send for men who are armed with bows and arrows. Send them against Babylon. Set up camp all around it. Do not let anyone escape. Pay it back for what its people have done. Do to them what they have done to others. They have dared to disobey me. I am the Holy One of Israel. 
Jeremiah50:30 You can be sure its young men will fall dead in the streets. All of its soldiers will be put to death at that time,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah50:31 Proud Babylonians, I am against you,"" announces the Lord. The Lord who rules over all says, ""Your day to be judged has come. It is time for you to be punished." 
Jeremiah50:32 You proud people will trip and fall. No one will help you up. I will start a fire in your towns. It will burn up everyone who is around you. 
Jeremiah50:33 The Lord who rules over all says, ""The people of Israel are being treated badly. So are the people of Judah. Those who have captured them are holding them. They refuse to let them go." 
Jeremiah50:34 But I am strong and will save them. My name is The Lord Who Rules Over All. I will stand up for them. I will bring peace and rest to their land. But I will bring trouble to those who live in Babylonia. 
Jeremiah50:35 A sword is coming against the Babylonians! announces the Lord. It is coming against those who live in Babylonia. It is coming against their officials and wise men. 
Jeremiah50:36 A sword is coming against their prophets. But they are not really prophets at all! So they will look foolish. A sword is coming against their soldiers! They will be filled with terror. 
Jeremiah50:37 A sword is coming against their horses and chariots! It is coming against all of the hired soldiers in their armies. They will become like weak women. A sword is coming against their treasures! They will be stolen. 
Jeremiah50:38 There will not be any rain for their rivers. So they will dry up. Those things will happen because their land is full of statues of gods. Those gods will go crazy with terror. 
Jeremiah50:39 Desert creatures and hyenas will live in Babylon. And so will owls. People will never live there again. It will not be lived in for all time to come. 
Jeremiah50:40 I destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. I also destroyed the towns that were near them,"" announces the Lord. ""Babylonia will be just like them. No one will live there. No one will stay there even for a short time." 
Jeremiah50:41 Look! An army is coming from the north. I am stirring up a great nation and many kings. They are coming from a land that is very far away. 
Jeremiah50:42 Their soldiers are armed with bows and spears. They are mean. They do not show any mercy at all. They come riding in on their horses. They sound like the roaring ocean. They are lined up for battle. They are coming to attack you, city of Babylon." 
Jeremiah50:43 The king of Babylonia has heard reports about them. His hands can't help him. He is in great pain. It is like the pain of a woman having a baby. 
Jeremiah50:44 I will be like a lion coming up from the bushes by the Jordan River. I will hunt in rich grasslands. I will chase the people of Babylon from their land in an instant. What nation will I choose to do it? Which one will I appoint? Is anyone like me? Who would dare to argue with me? What leader can stand against me? 
Jeremiah50:45 So listen to what the Lord has planned against Babylon. Hear what he has planned against the land of the Babylonians. Their young people will be dragged away. The Lord will completely destroy their grasslands because of them. 
Jeremiah50:46 When the earth hears that Babylonia has been captured, it will shake. The people's cries will be heard among the nations." 
Jeremiah51:1 The Lord says, ""I will stir up the spirits of destroyers. They will march out against Babylonia and its people." 
Jeremiah51:2 I will send other nations against it to separate the straw from the grain. I will send them to destroy Babylonia completely. They will oppose it on every side. At that time it will be destroyed. 
Jeremiah51:3 Do not let its soldiers get their bows ready to use. Do not let them put on their armor. Do not spare their young men. Destroy their armies completely. 
Jeremiah51:4 They will fall down dead in Babylon. They will receive deadly wounds in its streets. 
Jeremiah51:5 The land of Israel and Judah is full of guilt. Its people have sinned against me. But I have not deserted them. I am their God. I am the Lord who rules over all. I am the Holy One of Israel. 
Jeremiah51:6 People of Judah, run away from Babylonia! Run for your lives! Do not be destroyed because of the sins of its people. It is time for me to pay them back. I will punish them for what they have done." 
Jeremiah51:7 Babylon was like a gold cup in my hand. That city made the whole earth drunk. The nations drank its wine. So now they have gone crazy. 
Jeremiah51:8 Babylon will suddenly fall and be broken. Sob over it! Get healing lotion for its pain. Perhaps it can be healed. 
Jeremiah51:9 The nations say, 'We would have healed Babylon. But it can't be healed. So let's leave it. Let's each go to our own land. Babylon's sins reach all the way to the skies. They rise up as high as the clouds.'" 
Jeremiah51:10 The people of Judah say, 'The Lord has made things right for us again. So come. Let's tell in Zion what the Lord our God has done.'" 
Jeremiah51:11 I have stirred up you kings of the Medes. So sharpen your arrows! Get your shields! I plan to destroy Babylon. I will pay the Babylonians back. They have destroyed my temple. 
Jeremiah51:12 Lift up a banner! Attack Babylon's walls! Put more guards on duty! Station more of them to watch over you! Hide and wait to attack them! I will do what I have planned. I will do what I have decided to do against the people of Babylon. 
Jeremiah51:13 You who live by the rivers of Babylon, your end has come. You who are rich in treasures, it is time for you to be destroyed." 
Jeremiah51:14 I am the Lord who rules over all. I have made a promise with an oath in my own name. I have said, 'I will certainly fill your land with soldiers. They will be as many as a huge number of locusts. They will win the battle over you. They will shout for joy.'" 
Jeremiah51:15 I used my power to make the earth. I used my wisdom to set the world in place. I used my understanding to spread the heavens out. 
Jeremiah51:16 When I thunder, the waters in the heavens roar. I make clouds rise from one end of the earth to the other. I send lightning with the rain. I bring out the wind from my storerooms." 
Jeremiah51:17 No one has any sense. No one knows anything. Everyone who works with gold is put to shame by his wooden gods. His metal gods are fakes. They can't even breathe. 
Jeremiah51:18 They are worthless. People make fun of them. When I judge them, they will be destroyed." 
Jeremiah51:19 I am not like them. I am the God of Jacob. I give my people everything they need. I can do it because I made everything, including Israel. It is the nation that belongs to me. My name is The Lord Who Rules Over All." 
Jeremiah51:20 Babylonia, you are my war club. You are my weapon for battle. I use you to destroy nations. I use you to wipe out kingdoms." 
Jeremiah51:21 I use you to destroy horses and their riders. I use you to destroy chariots and their drivers. 
Jeremiah51:22 I use you to destroy men and women. I use you to destroy old people and young people. I use you to destroy young men and young women. 
Jeremiah51:23 I use you to destroy shepherds and their flocks. I use you to destroy farmers and their oxen. I use you to destroy governors and officials. 
Jeremiah51:24 Judah, I will pay Babylon back. You will see it with your own eyes. I will pay back all those who live in Babylonia. I will pay them back for all of the wrong things they have done in Zion,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:25 Babylonia, I am against you. Your kingdom is like a destroying mountain. You have destroyed the whole earth,"" announces the Lord. ""I will reach out my hand against you. I will roll you off the cliffs. I will make you like a mountain that has been burned up." 
Jeremiah51:26 No rock will be taken from you to be used as the most important stone for a building. No stones will be taken from you to be used for a foundation. Your land will be empty forever,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:27 Nations, lift up a banner in the land of Babylonia! Blow a trumpet among yourselves! Prepare yourselves for battle against Babylonia. Send the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni and Ashkenaz against it. Appoint a commander against it. Send many horses against it. Let them be as many as a huge number of locusts." 
Jeremiah51:28 Prepare yourselves for battle against Babylonia. Prepare the kings of the Medes. Prepare their governors and all of their officials. Prepare all of the countries they rule over. 
Jeremiah51:29 The Babylonians tremble and shake with fear. My plans against them stand firm. I plan to destroy their land completely. Then no one will live there. 
Jeremiah51:30 Babylon's soldiers have stopped fighting. They remain in their forts. Their strength is all gone. They have become like weak women. Their buildings are set on fire. The heavy metal bars on their gates are broken. 
Jeremiah51:31 One messenger after another comes to the king of Babylonia. All of them announce that his entire city is captured. 
Jeremiah51:32 The places where people go across the Euphrates River have been captured. The swamps have been set on fire. And the soldiers are terrified. 
Jeremiah51:33 The Lord who rules over all is the God of Israel. He says, ""The city of Babylon is like a threshing floor when cattle are walking on it. The time to destroy it will soon come.""" 
Jeremiah51:34 The people of Jerusalem say, ""Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, has destroyed us. He has thrown us into a panic. He has emptied us out like a jar. Like a snake he has swallowed us up. He has filled his stomach with our rich food. Then he has spit us out of his mouth.""" 
Jeremiah51:35 The people continue, ""May the people of Babylon pay for the harmful things they have done to us. May those who live in Babylonia pay for spilling the blood of our people."" That's what the people who live in Zion say." 
Jeremiah51:36 So the Lord says, ""I will stand up for you. I will pay the Babylonians back for what they did to you. I will dry up their water supply. I will make their springs run dry." 
Jeremiah51:37 Babylon will have all of its buildings knocked down. It will be a home for wild dogs. No one will live there. People will be shocked at it. They will make fun of it. 
Jeremiah51:38 All of its people roar like young lions. They growl like lion cubs. 
Jeremiah51:39 They are stirred up. So I will set a big dinner in front of them. I will make them drunk. And they will shout and laugh. But then they will lie down and die. They will never wake up,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:40 I will lead them down like lambs to be put to death. They will be like rams and goats that have been killed. 
Jeremiah51:41 Babylon will be captured! The whole earth was very proud of it. But it will be taken over by others! The nations will be shocked when it falls. 
Jeremiah51:42 Babylon's enemies will sweep over it like an ocean. Like roaring waves they will cover it. 
Jeremiah51:43 The towns of Babylonia will be empty. It will become a dry and desert land. No one will live there. No one will even travel through it. 
Jeremiah51:44 I will punish the god Bel in Babylon. I will make Bel spit out what it has swallowed. The nations will not come and worship it anymore. And Babylon's walls will fall down. 
Jeremiah51:45 Come out of there, my people! Run for your lives! Run away from my burning anger." 
Jeremiah51:46 You will hear about terrible things that are happening in Babylonia. But do not lose hope. Do not be afraid. You will hear one thing this year. And you will hear something else next year. You will hear about awful things in the land. You will hear about one ruler fighting against another. 
Jeremiah51:47 I will punish the gods of Babylon. That time will certainly come. Then the whole land will be full of shame. Its people will lie down and die there. 
Jeremiah51:48 So heaven and earth and everything in them will shout for joy. They will be glad because of what will happen to Babylon. Armies will attack it from the north. And they will destroy it,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:49 Babylon's people have killed my people Israel. They have also killed people all over the earth. So now Babylon itself must fall. 
Jeremiah51:50 You who have not been killed in the war against Babylon, leave! Do not wait! In a land far away remember me. And think about Jerusalem.""" 
Jeremiah51:51 The people of Judah reply, ""No one honors us anymore. People make fun of us. Our faces are covered with shame. People from other lands have entered the holy places of the Lord's house.""" 
Jeremiah51:52 But a new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time I will punish the gods of Babylon. And all through its land wounded people will groan." 
Jeremiah51:53 What if Babylon reached all the way to the sky? What if it made its high walls even stronger? I would still send destroyers against it,"" announces the Lord." 
Jeremiah51:54 The noise of people screaming comes from Babylon. A terrible sound comes from its land. It is the sound of a mighty city being destroyed. 
Jeremiah51:55 I will destroy Babylon. I will put an end to all of its noise. Waves of enemies will sweep through it like great waters. The roar of their voices will fill the air. 
Jeremiah51:56 A destroying army will come against Babylon. The soldiers in the city will be captured. Their bows will be broken. I am the Lord God who pays people back. I will pay them back in full. 
Jeremiah51:57 I will make Babylon's officials and wise men drunk. I will do the same thing to its governors, officers and soldiers. They will lie down and die. They will never wake up,"" announces the King. His name is The Lord Who Rules Over All." 
Jeremiah51:58 The Lord who rules over all says, ""Babylon's thick walls will fall down flat. Its high gates will be set on fire. The nations wear themselves out for no reason at all. Their hard work will only be burned up in the flames.""" 
Jeremiah51:59 I gave a message to the staff officer Seraiah, the son of Neriah. I told him to take it with him to Babylon. He went there with Zedekiah, the king of Judah. He left in the fourth year of Zedekiah's rule. Neriah was the son of Mahseiah." 
Jeremiah51:60 I had written about all of the trouble that would come on Babylon. I had written it down on a scroll. It included everything that had been recorded about Babylon. 
Jeremiah51:61 I said to Seraiah, ""When you get to Babylon, here's what I want you to do. Make sure that you read all of these words out loud." 
Jeremiah51:62 Then say, 'Lord, you have said you will destroy this place. You have said that no people or animals will live here. It will be empty forever.'" 
Jeremiah51:63 Finish reading the scroll. Tie a stone to it. Throw it into the Euphrates River. 
Jeremiah51:64 Then say, 'In the same way, Babylon will sink down. It will never rise again. That is because I will bring such horrible trouble on it. And its people will fall along with it.' "" The words of Jeremiah end here." 
Jeremiah52:1 Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king. He ruled in Jerusalem for 11 years. His mother's name was Hamutal. She was the daughter of Jeremiah. She was from Libnah. 
Jeremiah52:2 Zedekiah did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He did just as Jehoiakim had done. 
Jeremiah52:3 The enemies of Jerusalem and Judah attacked them because the Lord was angry. In the end he threw them out of his land. Zedekiah refused to obey the king of Babylonia. 
Jeremiah52:4 Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. He marched out against Jerusalem. All of his armies went with him. It was in the ninth year of the rule of Zedekiah. It was on the tenth day of the tenth month. The armies set up camp outside the city. They set up ladders and built ramps and towers all around it. 
Jeremiah52:5 It was surrounded until the 11th year of King Zedekiah's rule. 
Jeremiah52:6 By the ninth day of the fourth month, there wasn't any food left in the city. So the people didn't have anything to eat." 
Jeremiah52:7 Then the Babylonians broke through the city wall. Judah's whole army ran away. They left the city at night. They went out through the gate between the two walls that were near the king's garden. They escaped even though the Babylonians surrounded the city. Judah's army ran toward the Arabah Valley. 
Jeremiah52:8 But the armies of Babylonia chased King Zedekiah. They caught up with him in the flatlands near Jericho. All of his soldiers were separated from him. They had scattered in every direction. 
Jeremiah52:9 The king was captured. He was taken to the king of Babylonia at Riblah. Riblah was in the land of Hamath. That's where Nebuchadnezzar decided how he would be punished. 
Jeremiah52:10 At Riblah the king of Babylonia killed the sons of Zedekiah. He forced him to watch it with his own eyes. Nebuchadnezzar also killed all of the officials of Judah. 
Jeremiah52:11 Then he poked out Zedekiah's eyes. He put him in bronze chains. And he took him to Babylon. There he put Zedekiah in prison until the day he died. 
Jeremiah52:12 Nebuzaradan served the king of Babylonia. In fact, he was commander of the royal guard. He came to Jerusalem. It was in the 19th year that Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. It was on the tenth day of the fifth month." 
Jeremiah52:13 Nebuzaradan set the Lord's temple on fire. He also set fire to the royal palace and all of the houses in Jerusalem. He burned down every important building. 
Jeremiah52:14 The armies of Babylonia broke down all of the walls around Jerusalem. That's what the commander told them to do. 
Jeremiah52:15 Some of the poorest people still remained in the city along with the others. But the commander Nebuzaradan took them away as prisoners. He also took the rest of the skilled workers. That included the people who had joined the king of Babylonia. 
Jeremiah52:16 But Nebuzaradan left the rest of the poorest people of the land behind. He told them to work in the vineyards and fields. 
Jeremiah52:17 The armies of Babylonia destroyed the Lord's temple. They broke the bronze pillars into pieces. They broke up the bronze stands that could be moved around. And they broke up the huge bronze bowl. Then they carried all of the bronze away to Babylon. 
Jeremiah52:18 They also took away the pots, shovels, wick cutters, sprinkling bowls and dishes. They took away all of the bronze articles that were used for any purpose in the temple." 
Jeremiah52:19 The commander of the royal guard took away the bowls and the shallow cups for burning incense. He took away the sprinkling bowls, the pots, the lampstands and the dishes. He took away the bowls that were used for drink offerings. So he took away everything that was made out of pure gold or silver." 
Jeremiah52:20 The bronze was more than anyone could weigh. It included the bronze from the two pillars. It included the bronze from the huge bowl and the 12 bronze bulls that were under it. It also included the stands. King Solomon had made all of those things for the Lord's temple. 
Jeremiah52:21 Each of the pillars was 27 feet high and 18 feet around. The pillars were hollow. The metal in each of them was three inches thick. 
Jeremiah52:22 The bronze top of one pillar was seven and a half feet high. It was decorated with a set of bronze chains and pomegranates all around it. The other pillar was just like it. It also had pomegranates. 
Jeremiah52:23 There were 96 pomegranates on the sides of each of the two tops. The total number of pomegranates above the bronze chains around each top was 100. 
Jeremiah52:24 The commander of the guard took many prisoners. They included the chief priest Seraiah and the priest Zephaniah who was under him. They also included the three men who guarded the temple doors. 
Jeremiah52:24 The commander of the guard took many prisoners. They included the chief priest Seraiah and the priest Zephaniah who was under him. They also included the three men who guarded the temple doors. 
Jeremiah52:25 Some people were still left in the city. The commander took as a prisoner the officer who was in charge of the fighting men. He took the seven men who gave advice to the king. He also took the secretary who was the chief officer in charge of getting the people of the land to serve in the army. And he took 60 of the secretary's men who were still in the city. 
Jeremiah52:26 The commander Nebuzaradan took all of them away. He brought them to the king of Babylonia at Riblah. 
Jeremiah52:27 There the king had them put to death. Riblah was in the land of Hamath. So the people of Judah were taken as prisoners. They were taken far away from their own land. 
Jeremiah52:28 Here is the number of the people Nebuchadnezzar took to Babylon as prisoners. In the seventh year of his rule, he took 3,023 Jews." 
Jeremiah52:29 In his 18th year, he took 832 people from Jerusalem." 
Jeremiah52:30 In Nebuchadnezzar's 23rd year, Nebuzaradan, the commander of the royal guard, took 745 Jews to Babylon. The total number of people who were taken to Babylon was 4,600." 
Jeremiah52:31 Evil-Merodach set Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, free from prison. It was in the 37th year after Jehoiachin had been taken away to Babylon. It was also the year Evil-Merodach became king of Babylonia. It was on the 25th day of the 12th month." 
Jeremiah52:32 Evil-Merodach spoke kindly to Jehoiachin. He gave him a place of honor. Other kings were with Jehoiachin in Babylon. But his place was more important than theirs. 
Jeremiah52:33 So Jehoiachin put his prison clothes away. For the rest of Jehoiachin's life the king of Babylonia provided what he needed. 
Jeremiah52:34 The king did that for Jehoiachin day by day as long as he lived. He did it until the day Jehoiachin died. 
Lamentations1:1 The city of Jerusalem is so empty! It used to be full of people. But now it's like a woman whose husband has died. She used to be great among the nations. She was like a queen among the kingdoms. But now she is a slave. 
Lamentations1:2 Jerusalem sobs bitterly at night. Tears run down her cheeks. None of her friends comforts her. All those who were going to help her have turned against her. They have become her enemies. 
Lamentations1:3 After Judah's people had suffered greatly, they were taken away as prisoners. Now they live among the nations. They can't find any place to rest. All those who were chasing them have caught up with them. And they can't get away." 
Lamentations1:4 The roads to Zion are empty. No one travels to its appointed feasts. All of the public places near its gates are deserted. Its priests groan. Its young women are sad. And Zion itself sobs bitterly. 
Lamentations1:5 Its enemies have become its masters. They have an easy life. The Lord has brought suffering to Jerusalem because its people have committed so many sins. Its children have been taken away as prisoners. Their enemies have forced them to leave their homes. 
Lamentations1:6 The city of Zion used to be full of glory. But now its glory has faded away. Its princes are like deer. They can't find anything to eat. They are almost too weak to get away from those who hunt them down. 
Lamentations1:7 Jerusalem's people are suffering and wandering. They remember all of the treasures they used to have. But they fell into the hands of their enemies. And no one was there to help them. Their enemies looked at them. They laughed because Jerusalem had been destroyed. 
Lamentations1:8 Its people have committed many sins. They have become polluted. All those who honored Jerusalem now look down on it. They look at it as if it were a naked woman. The city groans and turns away in shame. 
Lamentations1:9 Her skirts are dirty. She didn't think about how things might turn out. Her fall from power amazed everyone. And no one was there to comfort her. She said, ""Lord, please pay attention to how much I'm suffering. My enemies have won the battle over me.""" 
Lamentations1:10 Jerusalem's enemies took away all of its treasures. Its people saw strangers enter its temple. The Lord had commanded them not to do that. 
Lamentations1:11 All of Jerusalem's people groan as they search for bread. They trade their treasures for food just to stay alive. They say, ""Lord, look at us. Think about our condition. Everyone looks down on us.""" 
Lamentations1:12 They also say, ""All of you who are passing by, don't you care about what has happened to us? Just look at our condition. Has anyone suffered the way we have? The Lord has brought all of this on us. He has made us suffer. His anger has burned against us." 
Lamentations1:13 He sent fire down from heaven. It went deep down into our very bones. He spread a net to catch us by the feet. He stopped us right where we were. He made our city empty. We are sick all the time. 
Lamentations1:14 We must carry the heavy load of our sins. He tied it on us with his hands. Our sins are heavy on our necks. The Lord has taken away our strength. He has handed us over to our enemies. We can't win the battle over them. 
Lamentations1:15 The Lord has refused to accept any of our soldiers. He has sent for an army to crush our young men. We are like grapes in the Lord's winepress. He has stomped on us, even though we are his very own people." 
Lamentations1:16 That's why we are sobbing. Tears are flowing from our eyes. No one is near to comfort us. No one can heal our spirits. Our children don't have anything. Our enemies are much too strong for us. 
Lamentations1:17 Zion reaches out its hands. But no one is there to comfort its people. The Lord has ordered that the neighbors of Jacob's people would become their enemies. Jerusalem has become polluted among them. 
Lamentations1:18 Its people say, ""The Lord always does what is right. But we refused to obey his commands. Listen, all of you nations. Pay attention to how much we're suffering. Our young women and young men have been taken away as prisoners." 
Lamentations1:19 We called out to those who were going to help us. But they turned against us. Our priests and elders died in the city. They were searching for food just to stay alive. 
Lamentations1:20 Lord, see how upset we are! We are suffering deep down inside. Our hearts are troubled. Again and again we have refused to obey you. Outside the city, people are being killed with swords. Inside, there is nothing but death." 
Lamentations1:21 People have heard us groan. But no one is here to comfort us. Our enemies have heard about all of our troubles. What you have done makes them happy. So please judge them, just as you said you would. Let them become like us." 
Lamentations1:22 Please pay attention to all of their sinful ways. Punish them as you have punished us. You judged us because we had committed so many sins. We groan all the time. And our hearts are weak. 
Lamentations2:1 See how the Lord covered the city of Zion with the cloud of his anger! He threw Israel's glory down from heaven to earth. When he was angry, he turned his back on his own city." 
Lamentations2:2 Without pity the Lord swallowed up all of the homes of Jacob's people. When he was angry, he tore down the forts of the people of Judah. He brought their kingdom and its princes down to the ground in dishonor." 
Lamentations2:3 When he burned with anger, he took away Israel's power. He pulled back his powerful right hand as the enemy approached. His burning anger blazed out in Jacob's land. It burned up everything that was near it." 
Lamentations2:4 Like an enemy the Lord got his bow ready to use. He had a sword in his right hand. Like an enemy he destroyed everything that used to be pleasing to him. His anger blazed out like fire. It burned up the homes in the city of Zion. 
Lamentations2:5 The Lord was like an enemy. He swallowed up Israel. He swallowed up all of its palaces. He destroyed its forts. He filled the people of Judah with sorrow and sadness. 
Lamentations2:6 The Lord's temple was like a garden. But he completely destroyed it. He destroyed the place where he used to meet with his people. He made Zion's people forget their appointed feasts and Sabbath days. When he was very angry, he turned his back on king and priest alike." 
Lamentations2:7 The Lord deserted his altar. He left his temple. He handed the walls of Jerusalem's palaces over to its enemies. They shouted loudly in the house of the Lord. You would have thought it was the day of an appointed feast. 
Lamentations2:8 The Lord decided to tear down the walls around the city of Zion. He measured out what he wanted to destroy. Then he destroyed it with his powerful hand. He made even its towers and walls sing songs of sadness. All of them fell down. 
Lamentations2:9 Its gates sank down into the ground. He broke their metal bars and destroyed them. Its king and princes were taken away to other nations. There is no law anymore. Jerusalem's prophets no longer receive visions from the Lord. 
Lamentations2:10 The elders of the city of Zion sit silently on the ground. They have sprinkled dust on their heads. They've put on black clothes to show how sad they are. The young women of Jerusalem have bowed their heads toward the ground. 
Lamentations2:11 I've cried so much I can't see very well. I'm suffering deep down inside. My heart is broken because my people are destroyed. Children and babies are fainting in the streets of the city. 
Lamentations2:12 They say to their mothers, ""Where can we find something to eat and drink?"" They faint like wounded soldiers in the streets of the city. Their lives are slipping away in their mothers' arms." 
Lamentations2:13 City of Jerusalem, what can I say about you? What can I compare you to? People of Zion, what are you like? I want to comfort you. Your wound is as deep as the ocean. Who can heal you?" 
Lamentations2:14 The visions of your prophets were lies. They weren't worth anything. They didn't show you the sins you had committed. So that's why you were captured. The messages they gave you were lies. They led you down the wrong path. 
Lamentations2:15 All those who pass by clap their hands and make fun of you. They laugh at you and shake their heads at the city of Jerusalem. They say, ""Could that be the city that was called perfect and beautiful? Is that the city that brought joy to everyone on earth?""" 
Lamentations2:16 All of your enemies open their mouths wide against you. They laugh at you and grind their teeth. They say, ""We have swallowed Jerusalem's people up. This is the day we've waited for. And we've lived to see it.""" 
Lamentations2:17 The Lord has done what he planned to do. He has made what he said come true. He gave the command long ago. He has destroyed you without pity. He has let your enemies laugh at you. He has made them stronger than you are. 
Lamentations2:18 People in the city of Zion, cry out from your heart to the Lord. Let your tears flow like a river day and night. Don't stop at all. Don't give your eyes any rest." 
Lamentations2:19 Get up. Cry out as the night begins. Tell the Lord all of your troubles. Lift up your hands to him. Pray that the lives of your children will be spared. At every street corner they faint because they are so hungry. 
Lamentations2:20 Jerusalem says, ""Lord, look at me. Think about my condition. Have you ever treated anyone else like this? Should women have to eat their babies? Should they eat the children they've taken care of? Should priests and prophets be killed in your own temple?" 
Lamentations2:21 Young people and old people alike lie dead in the dust of my streets. My young women and young men have been killed with swords. You killed them when you were angry. You put them to death without pity. 
Lamentations2:22 You sent for terrors to come against me on every side. It was as if you were inviting people to enjoy a feast day. Because you were angry, no one escaped. No one was left alive. I took good care of my children and brought them up. But my enemies have destroyed them.""" 
Lamentations3:1 I am a man who has suffered greatly. The Lord has used the Babylonians to punish our people. 
Lamentations3:2 He has driven me away. He has made me walk in darkness instead of light. 
Lamentations3:3 He has turned his powerful hand against me. He has done it again and again, all day long." 
Lamentations3:4 He has worn my body out. He has broken my bones. 
Lamentations3:5 He has surrounded me and attacked me. He has made me suffer bitterly. He has made things hard for me. 
Lamentations3:6 He has made me live in darkness like those who are dead and gone. 
Lamentations3:7 He has built walls around me. I can't escape. He has put heavy chains on me. 
Lamentations3:8 I call out and cry for help. But he won't listen to me when I pray. 
Lamentations3:9 He has put up a stone wall to block my way. He has made my paths crooked. 
Lamentations3:10 He has been like a bear waiting to attack me. He has been like a lion hiding in the bushes. 
Lamentations3:11 He has dragged me off the path. He has torn me to pieces. And he has left me helpless. 
Lamentations3:12 He has gotten his bow ready to use. He has shot his arrows at me. 
Lamentations3:13 The arrows from his bag have gone through my heart. 
Lamentations3:14 My people laugh at me all the time. They sing and make fun of me all day long. 
Lamentations3:15 The Lord has made my life bitter. He has made me suffer bitterly. 
Lamentations3:16 He made me chew stones that broke my teeth. He has walked all over me in the dust. 
Lamentations3:17 I have lost all hope of ever having any peace. I've forgotten what good times are like. 
Lamentations3:18 So I say, ""My glory has faded away. My hope in the Lord is gone.""" 
Lamentations3:19 I remember how I suffered and wandered. I remember how bitter my life was. 
Lamentations3:20 I remember it very well. My spirit is very sad deep down inside me. 
Lamentations3:21 But here is something else I remember. And it gives me hope. 
Lamentations3:22 The Lord loves us very much. So we haven't been completely destroyed. His loving concern never fails. 
Lamentations3:23 His great love is new every morning. Lord, how faithful you are!" 
Lamentations3:24 I say to myself, ""The Lord is everything I will ever need. So I will put my hope in him.""" 
Lamentations3:25 The Lord is good to those who put their hope in him. He is good to those who look to him. 
Lamentations3:26 It is good when people wait quietly for the Lord to save them. 
Lamentations3:27 It is good for a man to carry a heavy load of suffering while he is young. 
Lamentations3:28 Let him sit alone and not say anything. The Lord has placed that load on him. 
Lamentations3:29 Let him bury his face in the dust. There might still be hope for him. 
Lamentations3:30 Let him turn his cheek toward those who would slap him. Let him be filled with shame. 
Lamentations3:31 The Lord doesn't turn his back on people forever. 
Lamentations3:32 He might bring suffering. But he will also show loving concern. How great his faithful love is! 
Lamentations3:33 He doesn't want to bring pain or suffering to people. 
Lamentations3:34 Every time people crush prisoners under their feet, the Lord knows all about it." 
Lamentations3:35 When people refuse to give a man his rights, the Most High God knows it." 
Lamentations3:36 When people don't treat a man fairly, the Lord knows it." 
Lamentations3:37 Suppose people order something to happen. It won't happen unless the Lord has planned it. 
Lamentations3:38 Troubles and good things alike come to people because the Most High God has commanded them to come. 
Lamentations3:39 A man who is still alive shouldn't blame God when God punishes him for his sins. 
Lamentations3:40 Let's take a good look at the way we're living. Let's return to the Lord. 
Lamentations3:41 Let's lift up our hands to God in heaven. Let's pray to him with all our hearts. 
Lamentations3:42 Let's say, ""We have sinned. We've refused to obey you. And you haven't forgiven us." 
Lamentations3:43 You have covered yourself with the cloud of your anger. You have chased us. You have killed our people without pity. 
Lamentations3:44 You have covered yourself with the cloud of your anger. Our prayers can't get through to you. 
Lamentations3:45 You have made us become like trash and garbage among the nations. 
Lamentations3:46 All of our enemies have opened their mouths wide to swallow us up. 
Lamentations3:47 We are terrified and trapped. We are broken and destroyed. 
Lamentations3:48 Streams of tears flow from my eyes. That's because my people are destroyed. 
Lamentations3:49 Tears will never stop flowing from my eyes. My eyes can't get any rest. 
Lamentations3:50 I'll sob until the Lord looks down from heaven. I'll cry until he notices my tears. 
Lamentations3:51 What I see brings pain to my spirit. All of the people in my city are suffering so much. 
Lamentations3:52 Those who were my enemies for no reason at all hunted me down as if I were a bird. 
Lamentations3:53 They tried to end my life by throwing me into a deep pit. They threw stones down at me. 
Lamentations3:54 The water rose and covered my head. I thought I was going to die. 
Lamentations3:55 Lord, I called out to you. I called out from the bottom of the pit." 
Lamentations3:56 I prayed, ""Please don't close your ears to my cry for help."" And you heard my appeal." 
Lamentations3:57 You came near when I called out to you. You said, ""Do not be afraid.""" 
Lamentations3:58 Lord, you stood up for me in court. You saved my life and set me free." 
Lamentations3:59 Lord, you have seen the wrong things people have done to me. Stand up for me again!" 
Lamentations3:60 You have seen how my enemies have tried to get even with me. You know all about their plans against me. 
Lamentations3:61 Lord, you have heard them laugh at me. You know all about their plans against me." 
Lamentations3:62 You have heard my enemies whispering among themselves. They speak against me all day long. 
Lamentations3:63 Just look at them sitting and standing there! They sing and make fun of me. 
Lamentations3:64 Lord, pay them back. Punish them for what their hands have done." 
Lamentations3:65 Cover their minds with a veil. Put a curse on them! 
Lamentations3:66 Lord, get angry with them and hunt them down. Wipe them off the face of the earth." 
Lamentations4:1 Look at how the gold has lost its brightness! See how dull the fine gold has become! The sacred jewels are scattered at every street corner. 
Lamentations4:2 The priceless children of Zion were worth their weight in gold. But now they are thought of as clay pots made by the hands of a potter. 
Lamentations4:3 Even wild dogs nurse their young pups. But my people are as mean as ostriches in the desert. 
Lamentations4:4 When our babies get thirsty, their tongues stick to the roofs of their mouths. When our children beg for bread, no one gives them any." 
Lamentations4:5 Those who once ate fine food are dying in the streets. Those who wore fancy clothes are now lying on piles of trash. 
Lamentations4:6 My people have been punished more than Sodom was. It was destroyed in a moment. No one offered it a helping hand. 
Lamentations4:7 Jerusalem's princes were brighter than snow. They were whiter than milk. Their bodies were redder than rubies. They looked like sapphires. 
Lamentations4:8 But now they are blacker than coal. No one even recognizes them in the streets. Their skin is wrinkled on their bones. It has become as dry as a stick. 
Lamentations4:9 Those who have been killed with swords are better off than those who have to die of hunger. Those who are hungry waste away to nothing. They don't have any food from the fields. 
Lamentations4:10 With their own hands, loving mothers have had to cook even their own children. They ate their children when my people were destroyed." 
Lamentations4:11 The Lord has become very angry. He has poured out his burning anger. He started a fire in Zion. It burned up the very foundations. 
Lamentations4:12 The kings of the earth couldn't believe what was happening. Neither could any of the world's people. Enemies actually attacked and entered the gates of Jerusalem. 
Lamentations4:13 It happened because Jerusalem's prophets had sinned. Its priests had done evil things. All of them spilled the blood of those who did what was right. 
Lamentations4:14 Now those prophets and priests have to feel their way along the streets like people who are blind. The blood of those they killed has made them unclean. So no one dares even to touch their clothes. 
Lamentations4:15 Go away! You are 'unclean'! people cry out to them. Go away! Get out of here! Don't touch us! So they run away and wander around. Then people among the nations say, ""They can't stay here anymore.""" 
Lamentations4:16 The Lord himself has scattered them. He doesn't watch over them anymore. No one shows the priests any respect. No one honors the elders. 
Lamentations4:17 And that's not all. Our eyes grew tired. We looked for help that never came. We watched from our towers. We kept looking for a nation that couldn't save us. 
Lamentations4:18 People hunted us down no matter where we went. We couldn't even walk in our streets. Our end was near. We only had a few days to live. Our end had come. 
Lamentations4:19 Those who were hunting us down were faster than eagles in the sky. They chased us over the mountains. They hid and waited for us in the desert. 
Lamentations4:20 Zedekiah, the Lord's anointed king, was our last hope. But he was caught in their traps. We thought he would keep us safe. We expected to continue living among the nations." 
Lamentations4:21 People of Edom, be joyful. You who live in the land of Uz, be glad. But the cup of the Lord's anger will also be passed to you. Then you will become drunk. Your clothes will be stripped off." 
Lamentations4:22 People of Zion, the time for you to be punished will come to an end. The Lord won't keep you away from your land any longer. But he will punish your sin, people of Edom. He will show you the evil things you have done." 
Lamentations5:1 Lord, think about what has happened to us. Look at the shame our enemies have brought on us." 
Lamentations5:2 The land you gave us has been turned over to outsiders. Our homes have been given to strangers. 
Lamentations5:3 Our fathers have been killed. Our mothers don't have husbands. 
Lamentations5:4 We have to buy the water we drink. We have to pay for the wood we use. 
Lamentations5:5 Those who chase us are right behind us. We're tired. We can't get any rest. 
Lamentations5:6 We put ourselves under the control of Egypt and Assyria just to get enough bread. 
Lamentations5:7 Our people before us sinned. And they are now dead. We are being punished because of their sins. 
Lamentations5:8 Slaves rule over us. No one can set us free from their powerful hands. 
Lamentations5:9 We put our lives in danger just to get some bread to eat. Robbers in the desert might kill us with their swords. 
Lamentations5:10 Our skin is as hot as an oven. We are so hungry we're burning up with fever. 
Lamentations5:11 Our women have been raped in Zion. Our virgins have been raped in the towns of Judah. 
Lamentations5:12 Our princes have been hung up by their hands. No one shows our elders any respect. 
Lamentations5:13 Our young men are forced to grind grain at the mill. Our boys almost fall down as they carry heavy loads of wood. 
Lamentations5:14 Our elders don't go to the city gate anymore. Our young men have stopped playing their music. 
Lamentations5:15 There isn't any joy in our hearts. Our dancing has turned into sobbing. 
Lamentations5:16 All of our honor is gone. How terrible it is for us! We have sinned. 
Lamentations5:17 So our hearts are weak. Our eyes can't see very clearly. 
Lamentations5:18 Mount Zion has been deserted. Wild dogs are prowling all around on it. 
Lamentations5:19 Lord, you rule forever. Your throne will last for all time to come." 
Lamentations5:20 Why do you always forget us? Why have you deserted us for so long? 
Lamentations5:21 Lord, please bring us back to you. Then we can return. Make our lives like new again." 
Lamentations5:22 Or have you completely turned away from us? Are you really that angry with us? 
Ezekiel1:1 I was 30 years old. I was with my people who had been taken away from their country. We were by the Kebar River in the land of Babylonia. On the fifth day of the fourth month, the heavens were opened. I saw visions of God." 
Ezekiel1:2 It was the fifth day of the month. Jehoiachin had been king of Judah. It was the fifth year since he had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. 
Ezekiel1:3 A message came to me from the Lord. I was by the Kebar River in Babylonia. The Lord put his strong hand on me there. I am Ezekiel, the son of Buzi. I'm a priest." 
Ezekiel1:4 I looked up and saw a windstorm coming from the north. I saw a huge cloud. The fire of lightning was flashing out of it. Bright light surrounded it. The center of the fire looked like glowing metal. 
Ezekiel1:5 I saw in the fire something that looked like four living creatures. They appeared to have the shape of a man. 
Ezekiel1:6 But each of them had four faces and four wings. 
Ezekiel1:7 Their legs were straight. Their feet looked like the feet of a calf. They were as bright as polished bronze. 
Ezekiel1:8 The creatures had a man's hands under their wings on their four sides. All four of them had faces and wings. 
Ezekiel1:9 Their wings touched one another. Each of the creatures went straight ahead. They didn't change their direction as they moved. 
Ezekiel1:10 Here's what their faces looked like. Each of the four creatures had a man's face. On the right side each had the face of a lion. On the left each had the face of an ox. Each one also had an eagle's face. 
Ezekiel1:11 That's what their faces looked like. Two of their wings were spread out and lifted up. Each one touched the wing of another creature on either side. The other two wings covered their bodies. 
Ezekiel1:12 All of the creatures went straight ahead. Anywhere their spirits would lead them to go, they would go. They didn't change their direction as they went." 
Ezekiel1:13 The living creatures looked like burning coals of fire or like torches. Fire moved back and forth among the creatures. It was bright. Lightning flashed out of it. 
Ezekiel1:14 The creatures raced back and forth like flashes of lightning. 
Ezekiel1:15 As I looked at the living creatures, I saw wheels on the ground beside them. Each creature had four faces." 
Ezekiel1:16 Here's how the wheels looked and worked. They gleamed like chrysolite. All four of them looked alike. Each one seemed to be made like a wheel inside another wheel at right angles. 
Ezekiel1:17 The wheels could go in any one of the four directions the creatures faced. The wheels didn't change their direction as the creatures moved. 
Ezekiel1:18 Their rims were high and terrifying. All four rims were full of eyes all the way around them. 
Ezekiel1:19 When the creatures moved, the wheels beside them moved. When the living creatures rose from the ground, the wheels also rose." 
Ezekiel1:20 Anywhere their spirits would lead them to go, they would go. And the wheels would rise along with them. That's because the spirits of the living creatures were in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:21 When the creatures moved, the wheels also moved. When the creatures stood still, they also stood still. When the creatures rose from the ground, the wheels rose along with them. That's because the spirits of the living creatures were in the wheels." 
Ezekiel1:22 Something that looked like a huge space was spread out above the heads of the living creatures. It gleamed like ice. It was terrifying. 
Ezekiel1:23 The wings of the creatures were spread out under the space. They reached out toward one another. Each creature had two wings covering its body. 
Ezekiel1:24 When the creatures moved, I heard the sound of their wings. It was like the roar of rushing waters. It sounded like the thundering voice of the Mighty One. It was like the loud noise an army makes. When the creatures stood still, they lowered their wings." 
Ezekiel1:25 Then a voice came from above the huge space over their heads. They stood with their wings lowered. 
Ezekiel1:26 Above the space over their heads was something that looked like a throne made out of sapphire. On the throne high above was a figure that appeared to be human. 
Ezekiel1:27 From his waist up he looked like glowing metal that was full of fire. From his waist down he looked like fire. Bright light surrounded him. 
Ezekiel1:28 The glow around him looked like a rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day. That's what the glory of the Lord looked like. When I saw it, I fell with my face toward the ground. Then I heard the voice of someone speaking." 
Ezekiel2:1 He said to me, ""Son of man, stand up on your feet. I will speak to you.""" 
Ezekiel2:2 As he spoke, the Spirit of the Lord came into me. He raised me to my feet. I heard him speaking to me." 
Ezekiel2:3 He said, ""Son of man, I am sending you to the people of Israel. That nation has refused to obey me. They have turned against me. They and their people before them have been against me to this very day." 
Ezekiel2:4 The people I am sending you to are very stubborn. Tell them, 'Here is what the Lord and King says.'" 
Ezekiel2:5 They might listen, or they might not. After all, they refuse to obey me. But whether they listen or not, they will know that a prophet was among them." 
Ezekiel2:6 Son of man, do not be afraid of them or of what they say. Do not be afraid, even if thorns and bushes are all around you and you live among scorpions. Do not be afraid of what they say. Do not be terrified by them. They always refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel2:7 You must give them my message. They might listen, or they might not. After all, they refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel2:8 Son of man, listen to what I tell you. Do not be like those who refuse to obey me. Open your mouth. Eat what I give you.""" 
Ezekiel2:9 Then I looked up. I saw a hand reach out to me. A scroll was in it. 
Ezekiel2:10 He unrolled it in front of me. Both sides had words written on them. They spoke about sadness, sorrow and trouble." 
Ezekiel3:1 He said to me, ""Son of man, eat what is in front of you. Eat this scroll. Then go and speak to the people of Israel.""" 
Ezekiel3:2 So I opened my mouth. And he gave me the scroll to eat. 
Ezekiel3:3 Then he said to me, ""Son of man, eat this scroll I am giving you. Fill your stomach with it."" So I ate it. And it tasted as sweet as honey in my mouth." 
Ezekiel3:4 Then he said to me, ""Son of man, go to the people of Israel. Give them my message." 
Ezekiel3:5 I am not sending you to people who speak another language that is hard to learn. Instead, I am sending you to the people of Israel." 
Ezekiel3:6 You are not being sent to many nations whose people speak other languages that are hard to learn. You would not be able to understand them. Suppose I had sent you to them. Then they certainly would have listened to you. 
Ezekiel3:7 But the people of Israel do not want to listen to you. That is because they do not want to listen to me. All of the people of Israel are very stubborn. 
Ezekiel3:8 But I will make you just as stubborn as they are. 
Ezekiel3:9 I will make you very brave. So do not be afraid of them. Do not let them terrify you, even though they refuse to obey me.""" 
Ezekiel3:10 He continued, ""Son of man, listen carefully. Take to heart everything I tell you." 
Ezekiel3:11 Go now to your own people who were brought here as prisoners. Speak to them. Tell them, 'Here is what the Lord and King says.' Speak to them whether they listen or not.""" 
Ezekiel3:12 Then the Spirit of the Lord lifted me up. I heard a loud rumbling sound behind me. May the glory of the Lord be praised in the place where he lives! 
Ezekiel3:13 The sound was made by the wings of the living creatures. They were brushing against one another. The sound was also made by the wheels beside them. It was a loud rumbling sound. 
Ezekiel3:14 Then the Spirit lifted me up and took me away. My spirit was bitter. I was burning with anger. The strong hand of the Lord was on me. 
Ezekiel3:15 I came to my people who had been brought as prisoners to Tel Abib. It was near the Kebar River. I went to where they were living. There I sat among them for seven days. I was shocked by everything that had happened. 
Ezekiel3:16 After seven days, a message came to me from the Lord." 
Ezekiel3:17 He said, ""Son of man, I have appointed you as a prophet to warn the people of Israel. So listen to my message. Give them a warning from me." 
Ezekiel3:18 Suppose I say to a sinful person, 'You can be sure you will die.' And you do not warn him. You do not try to get him to change his evil ways in order to save his life. Then he will die because he has sinned. And I will hold you accountable for his death." 
Ezekiel3:19 But suppose you do warn that sinful person. And he does not turn away from his sin or his evil ways. Then he will die because he has sinned. But you will have saved yourself. 
Ezekiel3:20 Or suppose a godly person turns away from his godliness and does what is evil. And suppose I put something in his way that will trip him up. Then he will die. Since you did not warn him, he will die for his sin. The godly things he did will not be remembered. And I will hold you accountable for his death." 
Ezekiel3:21 But suppose you do warn a godly person not to sin. And he does not sin. Then you can be sure that he will live because he listened to your warning. And you will have saved yourself. 
Ezekiel3:22 The strong hand of the Lord was on me. He said, ""Get up. Go out to the flatlands. I will speak to you there.""" 
Ezekiel3:23 So I got up and went out to the flatlands. The glory of the Lord was standing there. It was just like the glory I had seen by the Kebar River. So I fell with my face toward the ground. 
Ezekiel3:24 Then the Spirit of the Lord came into me. He raised me to my feet. He said to me, ""Go, son of man. Shut yourself inside your house." 
Ezekiel3:25 Some people will tie you up with ropes. So you will not be able to go out among your people. 
Ezekiel3:26 I will make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth. Then you will be silent. You will not be able to correct them. They always refuse to obey me. 
Ezekiel3:27 But later I will speak to you. I will open your mouth. Then you will tell them, 'Here is what the Lord and King says.' Those who listen will listen. And those who refuse to listen will refuse. They always refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel4:1 Son of man, get a clay tablet. Put it in front of you. Draw the city of Jerusalem on it." 
Ezekiel4:2 Then pretend to surround it and attack it. Make some little models of war machines. Build a ramp up to it. Set camps up around it. Surround it with models of logs to be used for knocking down its gates. 
Ezekiel4:3 Then get an iron pan. Put it between you and the city. Pretend it is an iron wall. Turn your face toward the city. It will be under attack when you begin to attack it. That will show the people of Israel what is going to happen to Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel4:4 Next, lie down on your left side. Pretend that you are putting Israel's sin on yourself. Keep their sin on you for the number of days you lie on your side." 
Ezekiel4:5 Let each day you lie there stand for one year of their sin. So you will keep Israel's sin on you for 390 days. 
Ezekiel4:6 After you have finished that, lie down again. This time lie on your right side. Pretend that you are putting Judah's sin on yourself. Lie there for 40 days. That is one day for each year of their sin." 
Ezekiel4:7 Next, turn your face toward the model of Jerusalem under attack. Uncover your arm as if you were a soldier ready to fight. Prophesy against the city." 
Ezekiel4:8 I will tie you up with ropes. Then you will not be able to turn from one side to the other. You will stay that way until you have finished attacking Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel4:9 Get some wheat and barley. Also get some beans and lentils. And get some millet and spelt. Put everything in a storage jar. Use it to make some bread for yourself. Eat it during the 390 days you are lying down on your side. 
Ezekiel4:10 Weigh out eight ounces of food to eat each day. Eat it at your regular mealtimes. 
Ezekiel4:11 Also measure out two thirds of a quart of water. Drink it at your regular mealtimes. 
Ezekiel4:12 Eat your food as you would eat a barley cake. Bake it over human waste in front of the people. 
Ezekiel4:13 The Lord said, ""That is how the people of Israel will eat 'unclean' food. They will eat it in the nations where I will drive them.""" 
Ezekiel4:14 Then I said, ""No, Lord and King! I won't do it! I've never eaten anything that was 'unclean.' From the time I was young until now, I've never eaten anything that was found dead. And I've never eaten anything that was torn apart by wild animals. 'Unclean' meat has never entered my mouth.""" 
Ezekiel4:15 All right,"" he said. ""I will let you bake your bread over waste from cows. You can use that instead of human waste.""" 
Ezekiel4:16 He continued, ""Son of man, I will cut off the food supply in Jerusalem. The people will be worried as they eat their tiny share of food. They will not have any hope as they drink their tiny share of water." 
Ezekiel4:17 There will be very little food and water. The people will be shocked as they look at one another. They will become weaker and weaker because of their sin. 
Ezekiel5:1 Son of man, get a sharp sword. Use it as a barber's razor. Shave your head and beard with it. Then get a set of scales and weigh the hair. Separate it into three piles." 
Ezekiel5:2 Burn up a third of the hair inside the city. Do it when you stop attacking the model of Jerusalem. Next, get another third of the hair. Strike it with a sword all around the city. Then scatter the last third to the winds. That is because I will chase the people with a sword that is ready to strike them down." 
Ezekiel5:3 But save a few of the hairs. Tuck them away in the clothes you are wearing. 
Ezekiel5:4 Next, get a few more hairs. Throw them into the fire. Burn them up. The fire will spread to all of the people of Israel.""" 
Ezekiel5:5 The Lord and King says, ""This little model stands for Jerusalem. I have placed that city in the center of the nations. Countries are all around it." 
Ezekiel5:6 But its people are sinful. They have refused to obey my laws and rules. They have turned their backs on my laws. They have not followed my rules. Those people are worse than the nations and countries around them. 
Ezekiel5:7 The Lord and King continues, ""You people have been worse than the nations around you. You have not lived by my rules or kept my laws. You have not even lived up to the standards of the nations around you.""" 
Ezekiel5:8 The Lord and King continues, ""Jerusalem, I myself am against you. I will punish you in the sight of the nations." 
Ezekiel5:9 I will do to you what I have never done before and will never do again. That is because you worship statues of gods. I hate them. 
Ezekiel5:10 So parents will eat their own children inside the city. And children will eat their parents. I will punish you. And I will scatter to the winds anyone who is left alive. 
Ezekiel5:11 You have made my temple 'unclean.' You have set up statues of all of your evil gods. You have done other things I hate. So I will not show you my favor anymore. I will not spare you or feel sorry for you. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel5:12 A third of your people will die of the plague inside your walls. Or they will die of hunger there. Another third will be killed with swords outside your walls. And I will scatter the last third of your people to the winds. I will chase them with a sword that is ready to strike them down. 
Ezekiel5:13 Then I will not be angry anymore. My burning anger against them will die down. And I will be satisfied. Then they will know that I have spoken with strong feelings. And my burning anger toward them will come to an end. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel5:14 I will destroy you. I will bring shame on you in the sight of the nations that are around you. All those who pass by will see it. 
Ezekiel5:15 You will be put to shame. The nations will make fun of you. You will serve as a warning to others. They will be shocked when they see you. So I will punish you because my anger burns against you. You will feel the sting of my warning. I have spoken. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel5:16 I will shoot at you with my deadly, destroying arrows of hunger. I will shoot to kill. I will bring more and more hunger on you. I will cut off your food supply." 
Ezekiel5:17 I will send hunger and wild animals against you. They will destroy all of your children. Plague and murder will sweep over you. And I will send swords to kill you. I have spoken. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel6:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel6:2 Son of man, turn your attention to the mountains of Israel. Prophesy against them." 
Ezekiel6:3 Say, 'Mountains of Israel, listen to the message of the Lord and King. Here is what he says to the mountains and hills. And here is what he says to the canyons and valleys. He tells them, ""I will send swords to kill your people. I will destroy the high places where you worship other gods." 
Ezekiel6:4  ' Your altars will be torn down. Your incense altars will be smashed. And I will kill your people in front of the statues of your gods. 
Ezekiel6:5 I will put the dead bodies of Israelites in front of those statues. I will scatter your bones around your altars. 
Ezekiel6:6  ' No matter where you live, the towns will be destroyed. The high places will be torn down. So your altars will be completely destroyed. The statues of your gods will be smashed to pieces. Your incense altars will be broken down. And everything you have made will be wiped out." 
Ezekiel6:7 Your people will fall down dead among you. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel6:8  ' But I will spare some of you. Some will escape from being killed with swords. You will be scattered among other lands and nations. 
Ezekiel6:9 You will be taken away to those nations as prisoners. Those of you who escape will remember me. You will recall how much pain your unfaithful hearts gave me. You turned away from me. Your eyes longed to see the statues of your gods. You will hate yourselves because of all of the evil things you have done. I hate those things too. 
Ezekiel6:10 You will know that I am the Lord. I said I would bring trouble on you. And my warning came true. ' 
Ezekiel6:11 The Lord and King said to me, ""Clap your hands. Stamp your feet. Cry out, 'How sad!' Do it because the people of Israel have done so many evil things. I hate those things. Israel will be destroyed by war, hunger and plague." 
Ezekiel6:12 Those who are far away will die of the plague. Those who are near will be killed with swords. Those who are left alive and are spared will die of hunger. And my burning anger toward them will come to an end. 
Ezekiel6:13 Then they will know that I am the Lord. Their people will lie dead among the statues of their gods around their altars. Their bodies will lie on every high hill and every mountaintop. They will lie under every green tree and leafy oak tree. They used to offer sweet-smelling incense to all of their gods at those places. 
Ezekiel6:14 I will reach out my powerful hand against them. The land will become dry and empty. Those people will live from the desert all the way to Diblah. They will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel7:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel7:2 Son of man, I am the Lord and King. I say to the land of Israel, 'The end has come! It has come on the four corners of the land." 
Ezekiel7:3 The end has now come for you. I will pour out my anger on you. I will judge you based on how you have lived. I will pay you back for all of your evil practices. I hate them. 
Ezekiel7:4  'I will not spare you or feel sorry for you. You can be sure that I will pay you back in keeping with how you have lived. I will judge you for your evil practices. I hate them. You will know that I am the Lord.' 
Ezekiel7:5 I am the Lord and King. I say, 'Horrible trouble is coming! No one has ever heard of anything like it." 
Ezekiel7:6  'The end has come! The end has come! It has stirred itself up against you. It is here! 
Ezekiel7:7 Death has come on you who live in the land. The time for you to be destroyed has come. The day when it will happen is near. There is no joy on your mountains. There is nothing but panic. 
Ezekiel7:8  'I am about to pour out all of my burning anger on you. I will judge you based on how you have lived. I will pay you back for all of your evil practices. I hate them. 
Ezekiel7:9  'I will not spare you or feel sorry for you. I will pay you back based on how you have lived. I will judge you for your evil practices. I hate them. You will know that I am the one who strikes you down. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel7:10  'The day for me to punish you is here! It has come! Death has arrived. The time is ripe for you to be judged. Your pride has grown so much that you will be destroyed. 
Ezekiel7:11 Your mean and harmful acts have become like a rod. I will use it to punish you for your sins. None of you will be left. No wealth or anything of value will remain. 
Ezekiel7:12  'The time has come! The day has arrived! I will soon pour out my burning anger on the whole crowd of you. Do not let the buyer be happy. Do not let the seller be sad. 
Ezekiel7:13 The seller will not get back the land that was sold as long as both of them are alive.  'Ezekiel, the vision I gave you about that whole crowd will come true. They have committed many sins. So none of them will remain alive." 
Ezekiel7:14 They might blow trumpets. They might get everything ready. But no one will go into battle. I will soon pour out my burning anger on the whole crowd. 
Ezekiel7:15  'There is trouble everywhere. War is outside the city. Plague and hunger are inside it. Those who are out in the country will die in battle. Those in the city will be destroyed by hunger and plague. 
Ezekiel7:16 All those who escape and are left alive will run to the mountains. They have committed many sins. So they will cry like sad doves in the valleys. 
Ezekiel7:17  'Their hands will be powerless to help them. Their knees will become as weak as water. 
Ezekiel7:18 They will put on black clothes. They will put on terror as if it were their clothes. Their faces will be covered with shame. Their heads will be shaved. 
Ezekiel7:19  'They will throw their silver into the streets. Their gold will be like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold will not be able to save them on the day I pour out my anger on them. They will not be able to satisfy their hunger. Their stomachs will not be full. Their silver and gold have tripped them up. They have made them fall into sin. 
Ezekiel7:20 My people were so proud of their beautiful jewelry. They used it to make statues of their evil gods. I hate those gods. So I will turn their statues into an unclean thing for them. 
Ezekiel7:21  'I will hand everything over to strangers. I will turn it over to sinful people in other countries. They will pollute it. 
Ezekiel7:22 I will turn my face away from my people. Their enemies will pollute my beautiful temple. Robbers will enter it and pollute it. 
Ezekiel7:23  'Ezekiel, get ready to put my people in chains. The land is full of murderers. They are harming one another all over Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel7:24 I will bring the most evil nations against them. They will take over the houses in the city. I will put an end to the pride of those who are mighty. Their holy places will be polluted. 
Ezekiel7:25  'When terror comes, they will look for peace. But there will not be any." 
Ezekiel7:26 Trouble after trouble will come. One report will follow another. But they will not be true. The people will try to get visions from the prophets. But there will not be any. The teaching of the law by the priests will be gone. So will advice from the elders. 
Ezekiel7:27  'The king will be filled with sadness. The princes will lose all hope. The hands of the people of the land will tremble. I will punish them based on how they have lived. I will judge them by their own standards. Then they will know that I am the Lord.' 
Ezekiel8:1 It was the sixth year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the fifth day of the sixth month, I was sitting in my house. The elders of Judah were sitting there with me. The Lord and King put his powerful hand on me there." 
Ezekiel8:2 I looked up and saw a figure that appeared to be human. From his waist down he looked like fire. From his waist up he looked as bright as glowing metal. 
Ezekiel8:3 He reached out what appeared to be a hand. He took hold of me by the hair of my head. The Spirit of the Lord lifted me up between earth and heaven. In visions God gave me, the Spirit took me to Jerusalem. He brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the inner courtyard. The statue of a god was standing there. It made God very angry." 
Ezekiel8:4 There in front of me was the glory of the God of Israel. It looked just as it did in the vision I had seen on the flatlands. 
Ezekiel8:5 Then the Lord said to me, ""Son of man, look toward the north."" So I did. I saw a statue that made God angry. It was in the entrance of the gate north of the altar." 
Ezekiel8:6 He said to me, ""Son of man, do you see what the people of Israel are doing here? They are doing things I hate very much. Those things will cause me to go far away from my temple. But you will see things I hate even more.""" 
Ezekiel8:7 Then he brought me to the entrance to the courtyard. I looked up and saw a hole in the wall. 
Ezekiel8:8 He said to me, ""Son of man, dig into the wall."" So I did. And I saw a door there." 
Ezekiel8:9 He continued, ""Go through it. Look at the evil things they are doing here. I hate those things.""" 
Ezekiel8:10 So I went in and looked. All over the walls were pictures of all kinds of crawling things and other animals. The Lord hates it when people worship those things. There were also carvings of all of the gods of the people of Israel. 
Ezekiel8:11 In front of them stood 70 elders of Israel. Jaazaniah was standing there among them. He is the son of Shaphan. Each elder was holding a shallow cup. A sweet-smelling cloud of incense was rising from the cups. 
Ezekiel8:12 The Lord said to me, ""Son of man, do you see what the elders of Israel are doing in the dark? Each of them is in his own room worshiping his own god. They say, 'The Lord doesn't see us. He has deserted the land.' """ 
Ezekiel8:13 He continued, ""You will see them doing things I hate even more.""" 
Ezekiel8:14 Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the Lord's house. I saw women sitting there. They were sobbing over the god Tammuz. 
Ezekiel8:15 The Lord said to me, ""Son of man, do you see what they are doing? You will see things I hate even more.""" 
Ezekiel8:16 Then he brought me into the inner courtyard of the Lord's house. About 25 men were there. They were at the entrance to the Lord's temple between the porch and the altar. Their backs were turned toward the temple. Their faces were turned toward the east. And they were bowing down to the sun. 
Ezekiel8:17 He said to me, ""Son of man, have you seen all of that? The people of Judah are doing things here that I hate. This is a very serious matter. They are harming one another all through the land. They continue to make me very angry. Just look at them making fun of me!" 
Ezekiel8:18 So I am angry with them. I will punish them. I will not spare them or feel sorry for them. They might even shout in my ears. But I will not listen to them. 
Ezekiel9:1 Then I heard the Lord call out in a loud voice. He said, ""Bring those who guard the city here. Make sure each of them has a weapon.""" 
Ezekiel9:2 I saw six men coming from the direction of the upper gate. It faces north. Each of them had a deadly weapon. A man who was wearing linen clothes came along with them. He was carrying a writing kit at his side. They came in and stood beside the bronze altar. 
Ezekiel9:3 The glory of the God of Israel had been above the cherubim. It moved from there to the doorway of the temple. Then the Lord called to the man who was dressed in linen clothes. He had the writing kit. 
Ezekiel9:4 The Lord said to him, ""Go all through Jerusalem. Look for those who are sad and sorry about all of the things that are being done there. I hate those things. Put a mark on the foreheads of those people.""" 
Ezekiel9:5 I heard him speak to the six men. He said, ""Follow him through the city. Do not show any pity or concern." 
Ezekiel9:6 Kill old men and women, young men and women, and children. But do not touch anyone who has the mark. Start at my temple."" So they began with the elders who were in front of the temple." 
Ezekiel9:7 Then he said to the men, ""Make the temple 'unclean.' Fill the courtyards with dead bodies. Go!"" So they went out and started killing people all through the city." 
Ezekiel9:8 While they were doing it, I was left alone. I fell with my face toward the ground. I cried out, ""Lord and King, are you going to destroy all of the Israelites who are still left alive? Will you pour out your burning anger on all those who remain in Jerusalem?""" 
Ezekiel9:9 He answered me, ""The sin of Israel and Judah is very great. The land is full of murderers. They are not being fair to one another anywhere in Jerusalem. They say, 'The Lord has deserted the land. He doesn't see us.'" 
Ezekiel9:10 So I will not spare them or feel sorry for them. Anything that happens to them will be their own fault. 
Ezekiel9:11 Then the man who was wearing linen clothes returned. He had the writing kit. He reported, ""I've done what you commanded.""" 
Ezekiel10:1 I looked up and saw something that appeared to be a throne made out of sapphire. It was above the huge space that was spread out over the heads of the cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:2 The Lord spoke to the man who was wearing linen clothes. He said, ""Go in among the wheels beneath the cherubim. Fill your hands with burning coals from the fire that is among the cherubim. Scatter the coals over the city."" As I watched, he went in." 
Ezekiel10:3 The cherubim were standing on the south side of the temple when the man went in. A cloud filled the inner courtyard. 
Ezekiel10:4 Then the glory of the Lord rose from above the cherubim. It moved to the doorway of the temple. The cloud filled the temple. And the courtyard was full of the brightness of the glory of the Lord. 
Ezekiel10:5 The sound the wings of the cherubim made could be heard as far away as the outer courtyard. It was like the voice of the Mighty God when he speaks. 
Ezekiel10:6 The Lord gave a command to the man who was dressed in linen clothes. He said, ""Get some coals of fire from among the wheels. Take them from among the cherubim."" So the man went in and stood beside a wheel." 
Ezekiel10:7 Then one of the cherubim reached out his hand. He picked up some of the burning coals that were among the wheels. He handed them to the man who was wearing linen clothes. The man took them and left. 
Ezekiel10:8 I saw what looked like a man's hands. They were under the wings of the cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:9 I looked up and saw four wheels beside the cherubim. One wheel was beside each of them. The wheels gleamed like chrysolite. 
Ezekiel10:10 All four of them looked alike. Each wheel appeared to be inside another wheel at right angles. 
Ezekiel10:11 The wheels could go in any one of the four directions the cherubim faced. The wheels didn't change their direction as the cherubim moved. The cherubim went in the direction their heads faced. They didn't change their direction as they moved. 
Ezekiel10:12 Their whole bodies were completely covered with eyes. That included their backs, hands and wings. Their four wheels were covered with eyes too." 
Ezekiel10:13 I heard someone tell the wheels to start spinning around. 
Ezekiel10:14 Each of the cherubim had four faces. One face was the face of a cherub. The second was a man's face. The third was the face of a lion. And the fourth was an eagle's face. 
Ezekiel10:15 The cherubim rose from the ground. They were the same living creatures I had seen by the Kebar River. 
Ezekiel10:16 When the cherubim moved, the wheels beside them moved. The cherubim spread their wings to rise from the ground. As they did, the wheels didn't leave their side." 
Ezekiel10:17 When the cherubim stood still, the wheels also stood still. When the cherubim rose, the wheels rose along with them. That's because the spirits of the living creatures were in the wheels." 
Ezekiel10:18 Then the glory of the Lord moved away from the doorway of the temple. It stopped above the cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:19 While I watched, they spread their wings. They rose from the ground. As they went, the wheels went along with them. They stopped at the entrance of the east gate of the Lord's house. And the glory of the God of Israel was above them." 
Ezekiel10:20 Those were the same living creatures I had seen by the Kebar River. I had seen them beneath the God of Israel. I realized that they were cherubim. 
Ezekiel10:21 Each one had four faces and four wings. Under their wings was what looked like a man's hands. 
Ezekiel10:22 Their faces looked the same as the ones I had seen by the Kebar River. Each of the cherubim went straight ahead. 
Ezekiel11:1 Then the Spirit of the Lord lifted me up. He brought me to the east gate of the Lord's house. There were 25 men at the entrance of the gate. I saw Jaazaniah and Pelatiah among them. They were leaders of the people. Jaazaniah is the son of Azzur. Pelatiah is the son of Benaiah. 
Ezekiel11:2 The Lord said to me, ""Son of man, these men are making evil plans. They are giving bad advice to the city." 
Ezekiel11:3 They say, 'This is not the time to build houses. The city is like a cooking pot. And we are the meat.'" 
Ezekiel11:4 So prophesy against them. Prophesy, son of man.""" 
Ezekiel11:5 Then the Spirit of the Lord came on me. He told me to tell them, ""The Lord says, 'People of Israel, that is what you are saying. But I know what you are thinking." 
Ezekiel11:6 You have killed many people in this city. In fact, you have filled its streets with dead bodies.'" 
Ezekiel11:7 So the Lord and King says, 'The bodies you have thrown there are the meat. And the city is the cooking pot. But I will drive you out of it." 
Ezekiel11:8 You are afraid of the swords of war. But I will bring them against you,' announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel11:9  'I will drive you out of the city. I will hand you over to strangers. And I will punish you. 
Ezekiel11:10 You will be killed with swords. I will judge you at the borders of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel11:11  'This city will not be a pot for you. And you will not be the meat in it. I will judge you at the borders of Israel. 
Ezekiel11:12 Then you will know that I am the Lord. You have not followed my rules. You have not kept my laws. Instead, you have lived by the standards of the nations that are around you.' """ 
Ezekiel11:13 Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, died as I was prophesying. Then I fell with my face toward the ground. I cried out in a loud voice. I said, ""Lord and King, will you destroy all of the Israelites who are still left alive?""" 
Ezekiel11:14 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel11:15 Son of man, the people of Jerusalem have spoken about your relatives. They have also spoken about all of the other people of Israel. They have said, 'Stay far away from the Lord. This land was given to us. And it belongs to us.'" 
Ezekiel11:16 So tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""I sent some of my people far away among the nations. I scattered them among the countries. But for a little while I have been their temple in the countries where they have gone."" '" 
Ezekiel11:17 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""I will gather you from the nations. I will bring you back from the countries where you have been scattered. I will give you back the land of Israel."" '" 
Ezekiel11:18 They will return to it. They will remove all of its statues of evil gods. I hate those gods. 
Ezekiel11:19 I will give my people hearts that are completely committed to me. I will give them a new spirit that is faithful to me. I will remove their stubborn hearts from them. And I will give them hearts that obey me. 
Ezekiel11:20 Then they will follow my rules. They will be careful to keep my laws. They will be my people. And I will be their God. 
Ezekiel11:21 But some people have hearts that are committed to worshiping the statues of their evil gods. I hate those gods. Anything that happens to those people will be their own fault,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel11:22 Then the cherubim spread their wings. The wheels were beside them. The glory of the God of Israel was above them. 
Ezekiel11:23 The glory of the Lord went up from the city. It stopped above the Mount of Olives east of it. 
Ezekiel11:24 The Spirit of God lifted me up. He took me to those who had been brought to Babylonia as prisoners. Those are the things that happened in the visions the Spirit gave me. Then the visions I had seen were gone. 
Ezekiel11:25 I told my people everything the Lord had shown me. 
Ezekiel12:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel12:2 Son of man, you are living among people who refuse to obey me. They have eyes that can see. But they do not really see. They have ears that can hear. But they do not really hear. They refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel12:3 Son of man, pack your belongings as if you were going on a long trip. Leave in the daytime. Let the people see you. Start out from where you are. Go to another place. Perhaps they will understand the meaning of what you are doing. But they will still refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel12:4 Bring out your belongings packed for a long trip. Do it during the daytime. Let the people see you. Then in the evening, pretend you are being forced to leave home. Let the people see you." 
Ezekiel12:5 While the people are watching, dig through the mud bricks of your house. Then take your belongings out through the hole in the wall." 
Ezekiel12:6 Put them on your shoulder. Carry them out at sunset. Let the people see you. Cover your face so you can't see the land. All of that will show the people of Israel what is going to happen to them. 
Ezekiel12:7 So I did just as he commanded me. During the day I brought out my things as if I were going on a long trip. In the evening I dug through the wall of my house with my hands. At sunset I took my belongings out. I put them on my shoulders. The people watched what I was doing. 
Ezekiel12:8 In the morning a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel12:9 Son of man, didn't the people of Israel ask you, 'What are you doing?' They always refuse to obey me." 
Ezekiel12:10 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""This message is about Zedekiah, the prince in Jerusalem. It is also about all of the people of Israel who still live there."" '" 
Ezekiel12:11 Tell them, 'The things I've done are a picture of what's going to happen to you. So what I've done will happen to you. You will be forced to leave home. You will be taken to Babylonia as prisoners.'" 
Ezekiel12:12 The prince among them will put his things on his shoulder and leave. He will do it at sunset. Someone will dig a hole in a wall for him to go through. He will cover his face so he can't see the land. 
Ezekiel12:13 I will spread out my net to catch him. He will be caught in my trap. I will bring him to Babylonia. It is the land where the Chaldeans live. But he will not see it. He will die there. 
Ezekiel12:14 I will scatter to the winds all those who are around him. I will scatter his officials and all of his troops. And I will chase them with a sword that is ready to strike them down. 
Ezekiel12:15 They will know that I am the Lord when I scatter them among the nations. I will send them to other countries. 
Ezekiel12:16 But I will spare a few of them. I will save them from war, hunger and plague. In those countries they will admit they have done all kinds of evil things. I hate those things. They will know that I am the Lord.""" 
Ezekiel12:17 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel12:18 Son of man, tremble with fear as you eat your food. Tremble as you drink your water." 
Ezekiel12:19 Speak to the people of the land. Say to them, 'Here is what the Lord and King says about those who live in Jerusalem and Israel. He tells them, ""They will be worried as they eat their food. They will not have any hope as they drink their water. Their land will be stripped of everything in it because all those who live there are harming one another." 
Ezekiel12:20 The towns where people live will be completely destroyed. The land will become a dry and empty desert. Then you will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel12:21 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel12:22 Son of man, you have a proverb in the land of Israel. It says, 'The days go by, and not even one vision comes true.'" 
Ezekiel12:23 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""I am going to put an end to that proverb. They will not use that saying in Israel anymore."" ' Tell them, 'The days are coming soon when every vision will come true." 
Ezekiel12:24 There will be no more false visions. People will no longer use magic to find out whether good things are going to happen in Israel. 
Ezekiel12:25 I am the Lord. So I will say what I want to. And it will come true when I want it to. In your days I will do everything I say I will. But you people always refuse to obey me,' announces the Lord and King.""" 
Ezekiel12:26 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel12:27 Son of man, the people of Israel are saying, 'The vision Ezekiel sees won't come true for many years. He is prophesying about a time that is a long way off.'" 
Ezekiel12:28 So tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Everything I say will come true. It will happen when I want it to,"" announces the Lord and King.' """ 
Ezekiel13:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel13:2 Son of man, prophesy against those who are now prophesying in Israel. What they prophesy comes out of their own minds. Tell them, 'Listen to the Lord's message!" 
Ezekiel13:3 The Lord and King says, ""How terrible it will be for you foolish prophets! You say what your own minds tell you to. Your visions did not come from me." 
Ezekiel13:4  ' Israel, your prophets are like wild dogs that live among broken-down buildings." 
Ezekiel13:5 You have not repaired the cracks in the city wall for the people of Israel. So it will not stand firm in the battle on the day I judge you. 
Ezekiel13:6 The visions of those prophets are false. They use magic to try to find out what is going to happen. But their magic tricks are lies. They say, 'The Lord announces.' But I have not sent them. In spite of that, they expect their words to come true." 
Ezekiel13:7  ' You prophets have seen false visions. You have used magic to try to find out what is going to happen. But your magic tricks are lies. So you lied when you said, 'The Lord announces.' I did not even speak to you at all.""" 
Ezekiel13:8  'The Lord and King says, ""I am against you prophets. Your messages are false. Your visions do not come true,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel13:9  ' Israel, my powerful hand will be against the prophets who see false visions. Their magic tricks are lies. They will not be among the leaders of my people. They will not be listed in the records of Israel. In fact, they will not even enter the land. Then you will know that I am the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel13:10  ' They lead my people away from me. They say, 'Peace.' But there isn't any peace. They are like people who build a weak wall. They try to cover up the weakness by painting the wall white." 
Ezekiel13:11 Tell those who do it that their wall is going to fall. Heavy rains will come. I will send hailstones crashing down. Powerful winds will blow. 
Ezekiel13:12 The wall will fall down. Then people will ask them, 'Now where is the paint you covered it with?' """ 
Ezekiel13:13  'So the Lord and King speaks. He says, ""When I am burning with anger, I will send a powerful wind. Hailstones and heavy rains will come. They will fall with great force." 
Ezekiel13:14 I will tear down the wall you prophets painted over. I will knock it down. The only thing left will be its foundation. When it falls, you will be destroyed along with it. Then you will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel13:15  ' So I will pour out all of my burning anger on the wall. I will also send it against you prophets who painted it. I will say to you, 'The wall is gone. You who painted it will be gone too." 
Ezekiel13:16 You prophets of Israel prophesied to Jerusalem. You saw visions of peace for its people. But there wasn't any peace,' announces the Lord and King."" '" 
Ezekiel13:17 Son of man, turn your attention to the daughters of your people. What they prophesy comes out of their own minds. So prophesy against them." 
Ezekiel13:18 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""How terrible it will be for you women who sew magic charms to put around your wrists! You make veils of different lengths to put on your heads. You do those things to trap people. You trap my people. But you will also be trapped." 
Ezekiel13:19 You have treated me as if I were not holy. You did it among my very own people. You did it for a few handfuls of barley and scraps of bread. You told lies to my people. They like to listen to lies. You killed those who should have lived. And you spared those who should have died. 
Ezekiel13:20  'So the Lord and King says, ""I am against your magic charms. You use them to trap people as if they were birds. I will tear them off your arms. I will set free the people you trap like birds." 
Ezekiel13:21 I will tear your veils off your heads. I will save my people from your powerful hands. They will no longer be under your control. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel13:22  ' I had not made godly people sad. But when you told them lies, you made them lose all hope. You advised sinful people not to turn from their evil ways. You did not want them to save their lives." 
Ezekiel13:23 So you will never see false visions again. You will not use your magic tricks anymore. I will save my people from your powerful hands. Then you will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel14:1 Some of the elders of Israel came to see me. They sat down with me. 
Ezekiel14:2 Then a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel14:3 Son of man, these men have thought about nothing but other gods. They have fallen into the evil trap of worshiping them. Should I let those men ask me for any advice?" 
Ezekiel14:4 Speak to them. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Suppose an Israelite thinks about other gods. And he falls into the evil trap of worshiping them. Then he goes to a prophet to ask for advice. If he does, I myself will tell the prophet to answer him in keeping with his worship of many gods." 
Ezekiel14:5 I will win back the hearts of the people of Israel. All of them have deserted me for their other gods. ' 
Ezekiel14:6 So speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Turn away from your sins! Also turn away from your gods. Give up all of the evil things you have done. I hate them." 
Ezekiel14:7  ' Suppose an Israelite or outsider who lives in Israel separates himself from me. And he thinks about other gods. He falls into the evil trap of worshiping them. Then he goes to a prophet to ask me for advice. If he does, I myself will tell the prophet to answer him." 
Ezekiel14:8 I will turn against him. I will make an example out of him. People will laugh at him. I will cut him off from you. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel14:9  ' Suppose that prophet is stirred up to give a prophecy. Then I am the one who has stirred him up. And I will reach out my powerful hand against him. I will destroy him from among my people Israel. 
Ezekiel14:10 The prophet will be as much to blame as the one who asks him for advice. Both of them will be guilty. 
Ezekiel14:11 Then the people of Israel will no longer wander away from me. And they will not pollute themselves anymore with their many sins. They will be my people. And I will be their God,"" ' announces the Lord and King.""" 
Ezekiel14:12 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel14:13 Son of man, suppose the people in a certain country sin against me. And they are not faithful to me. So I reach out my powerful hand against them. I cut off their food supply. I make them very hungry. I kill them and their animals." 
Ezekiel14:14 And suppose Noah, Daniel and Job were in that country. Then those three men could save only themselves by doing what is right,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:14 And suppose Noah, Daniel and Job were in that country. Then those three men could save only themselves by doing what is right,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:14 And suppose Noah, Daniel and Job were in that country. Then those three men could save only themselves by doing what is right,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:15 Or suppose I send wild animals through that country. And they kill all of its children. It becomes a dry and empty desert. No one can pass through it because of the animals. 
Ezekiel14:16 And suppose those three men were in that country. Then they could not save their own sons or daughters. They alone would be saved. But the land would become a dry and empty desert. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:17 Or suppose I send swords to kill the people in that country. And I say, 'Let swords sweep all through the land.' And I kill its people and their animals." 
Ezekiel14:18 And suppose those three men were in that country. Then they could not save their own sons or daughters. They alone would be saved. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:19 Or suppose I send a plague into that land. And I pour out my burning anger on it by spilling blood. I kill its people and their animals. 
Ezekiel14:20 And suppose Noah, Daniel and Job were in that land. Then they could not save their own sons or daughters. They could save only themselves by doing what is right. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:20 And suppose Noah, Daniel and Job were in that land. Then they could not save their own sons or daughters. They could save only themselves by doing what is right. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:20 And suppose Noah, Daniel and Job were in that land. Then they could not save their own sons or daughters. They could save only themselves by doing what is right. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel14:21 The Lord and King says, ""It will get much worse. I will punish Jerusalem in four horrible ways. There will be war, hunger, wild animals and plague. They will destroy the people and their animals." 
Ezekiel14:22 But some people will be left alive. Some children will be brought out of the city. They will come to you. You will see how they act and the way they live. And you will be comforted in spite of all of the trouble I brought on Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel14:23 You will be comforted when you see how they act and the way they live. Then you will know that I did not do anything there without a reason,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel15:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel15:2 Son of man, is the wood of a vine better than the wood of any of the trees in the forest?" 
Ezekiel15:3 Can its wood ever be made into anything useful? Can pegs be made from it to hang things on? 
Ezekiel15:4 Suppose it is thrown in the fire to be burned. And the fire burns both ends and blackens the middle. Then is it useful for anything? 
Ezekiel15:5 It was not useful when it was whole. So how can it be made into something useful now? The fire has burned it and blackened it. 
Ezekiel15:6 The Lord and King says, ""Instead of the wood of any tree in the forest, I have given the vine to burn in the fire. I will treat the people who live in Jerusalem the same way." 
Ezekiel15:7 I will turn against them. They might have come out of the fire. But the fire will destroy them anyway. I will turn against them. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel15:8 I will make the land a dry and empty desert. My people have not been faithful to me,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel16:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel16:2 Son of man, tell the people of Jerusalem the evil things they have done. I hate those things." 
Ezekiel16:3 Tell them, 'The Lord and King speaks to Jerusalem. He says, ""Your history in the land of Canaan goes back a long way. Your father was an Amorite. Your mother was a Hittite." 
Ezekiel16:4 On the day you were born your cord was not cut. You were not washed with water to clean you up. You were not rubbed with salt. And you were not wrapped in large strips of cloth. 
Ezekiel16:5 No one took pity on you. No one was concerned enough to do any of those things for you. Instead, you were thrown out into an open field. You were hated on the day you were born." 
Ezekiel16:6  ' I was passing by. I saw you kicking around in your blood. As you were lying there, I said to you, 'Live!'" 
Ezekiel16:7 I made you grow like a plant in a field. Soon you had grown up. You became the most beautiful jewel of all. Your breasts had formed. Your hair had grown. But you were naked and bare. 
Ezekiel16:8  ' Later, I was passing by again. I looked at you. I saw that you were old enough for love. So I got married to you and took good care of you. I covered your naked body. I took an oath and made a firm promise to you. I entered into a covenant with you. And you became mine,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel16:9  ' I bathed you with water. I washed the blood off you. And I put lotions on you. 
Ezekiel16:10 I put a beautiful dress on you. I gave you leather sandals. I dressed you in fine linen. I covered you with expensive clothes. 
Ezekiel16:11 I decorated you with jewelry. I put bracelets on your arms. I gave you a necklace for your neck. 
Ezekiel16:12 I put rings on your nose and ears. And I gave you a beautiful crown for your head. 
Ezekiel16:13  ' So you were decorated with gold and silver. Your clothes were made out of fine linen. They were made of expensive and beautiful cloth. Your food was made out of fine flour, honey and olive oil. You became very beautiful. You became a queen." 
Ezekiel16:14 You were so beautiful that your fame spread among the nations. The glory I had given you made your beauty perfect,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel16:15  ' But you trusted in your beauty. You used your fame to become a prostitute. You offered your body freely to anyone who passed by. In fact, you gave yourself to anyone who wanted you." 
Ezekiel16:16 You used some of your clothes to make high places colorful. That is where people worshiped other gods. You were a prostitute there. Things like that should never happen. They should never take place. 
Ezekiel16:17  ' I had given you fine jewelry. It was made out of gold and silver. You used it to make for yourself statues of male gods. You worshiped those gods. You were not faithful to me. 
Ezekiel16:18 You put your beautiful clothes on them. You offered my oil and incense to them. 
Ezekiel16:19 You also offered them the food that was made out of fine flour, olive oil and honey. I had given it to you to eat. You offered it as sweet-smelling incense to them. That is what you did,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel16:20  ' Then you got your sons and daughters who belonged to me. And you sacrificed them as food to other gods. Wasn't it enough for you to be a prostitute? 
Ezekiel16:21 You killed my children. You sacrificed them to other gods. 
Ezekiel16:22  ' You did not remember the days when you were young. At that time you were naked and bare. You were kicking around in your blood. But now you have done evil things. I hate them. You have worshiped other gods. You have not been faithful to me. 
Ezekiel16:23  ' How terrible it will be for you! announces the Lord and King. How terrible for you! You continued to sin against me. 
Ezekiel16:24 Your people built up mounds for themselves in every market place. They put little places of worship on them. 
Ezekiel16:25 They set them up at every street corner. Jerusalem, you misused your beauty. You offered your body to anyone who passed by. You did it again and again." 
Ezekiel16:26  ' You committed shameful acts with the people of Egypt. They were your neighbors, and they were filled with longing for their lovers. You offered yourself to others again and again. That made me very angry." 
Ezekiel16:27 So I reached out my powerful hand against you. I made your territory smaller. I handed you over to your Philistine enemies. The people in their towns were shocked by your impure conduct. 
Ezekiel16:28  ' You also committed shameful acts with the people of Assyria. Nothing ever seemed to satisfy you. You could never get enough. 
Ezekiel16:29 Then you offered yourself to the people of Babylonia. But that did not satisfy you either. There are many traders in the land of Babylonia. 
Ezekiel16:30  ' You can't control yourself,"" announces the Lord and King. ""Just look at all of the things you are doing! You are acting like a prostitute who has no shame at all." 
Ezekiel16:31 Your people built up mounds at every street corner. You put little places of worship on them in every market place. But you did not really act like a prostitute. You refused to let your lovers pay you anything. 
Ezekiel16:32  ' You unfaithful wife! You would rather be with strangers than with your own husband! 
Ezekiel16:33 Every prostitute gets paid. But you give gifts to all of your lovers. You offer them money to come to you from everywhere. You want them to make love to you. You are not faithful to me. 
Ezekiel16:34 As a prostitute, you are the opposite of others. No one runs after you to make love to you. You are exactly the opposite. You pay them. They do not pay you."" ' """ 
Ezekiel16:35 You prostitute, listen to the Lord's message." 
Ezekiel16:36 The Lord and King says, ""You poured out your wealth on your lovers. You took your clothes off and made love to them. You did it again and again. You worshiped other gods. I hate them. You even sacrificed your children to them." 
Ezekiel16:37 So I am going to gather together all of the lovers you found pleasure with. They include those you loved and those you hated. I will gather them against you from everywhere. I will take your clothes off right in front of them. Then they will see you completely naked. 
Ezekiel16:38 I will hand down my sentence against you. You will be punished like women who commit adultery and sacrifice their children to other gods. My anger burns against you so much that I will sentence you to death for everything you have done. 
Ezekiel16:39 Then I will hand you over to your lovers. They will tear down those mounds you built. They will destroy the little places of worship you put on them. They will take your clothes off. They will remove your fine jewelry. And they will leave you naked and bare. 
Ezekiel16:40 They will bring a crowd against you. The crowd will put you to death by throwing stones at you. And they will chop you to pieces with their swords. 
Ezekiel16:41 They will burn your houses down and punish you. Many women will see it. I will not let you be a prostitute anymore. You will no longer pay your lovers. 
Ezekiel16:42 Then my burning anger against you will die down. My jealous anger will turn away from you. I will be calm. I will not be angry anymore. 
Ezekiel16:43 You did not remember the days when you were young. The things you did made me very angry. So anything that happens to you will be your own fault,"" announces the Lord and King. ""You added impure conduct to all of the other evil things you did. I hate all of those things." 
Ezekiel16:44 All those who use proverbs will use this one about you. They will say, 'Like mother, like daughter.'" 
Ezekiel16:45 You are a true daughter of your mother. She hated her husband and children. And you are a true sister of your sisters. They hated their husbands and children. Your mother was a Hittite. Your father was an Amorite. 
Ezekiel16:46 Your older sister was Samaria. She lived north of you with her daughters. Your younger sister was Sodom. She lived south of you with her daughters. 
Ezekiel16:47 You lived exactly the way they did. You copied their evil practices. I hate those practices. Everything you did was so sinful that you soon became even worse than they were. 
Ezekiel16:48 Your sister Sodom and her daughters never did what you and your daughters have done. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel16:49 Here is the sin your sister Sodom committed. She and her daughters were proud. They ate too much. They were not concerned about others. They did not help those who were poor and in need. 
Ezekiel16:50 They were very proud. They did many things that were evil in my sight. I hated those things. So I got rid of Sodom and her daughters, just as you have seen." 
Ezekiel16:51 Samaria did not commit half the sins you did. You sinned even more than they did. I hate those sins. Compared to what you did, you made your sisters seem godly." 
Ezekiel16:52 So you will be dishonored. You have given your sisters an excuse for what they did. Your sins were far worse than theirs. In fact, your sisters appear to be more godly than you. So then, be ashamed. You will be dishonored. You have made them appear to be godly." 
Ezekiel16:53 I will not only give you back what you had before. I will also do the same thing for Sodom and her daughters. And I will do the same for Samaria and her daughters. 
Ezekiel16:54 That will make you feel dishonored. You will be ashamed of everything you have done. You have made them feel better because you sinned more and were punished more than they were. 
Ezekiel16:55 Your sisters Sodom and Samaria and their daughters will return to what they were before. And you and your daughters will return to what you were before. 
Ezekiel16:56 In the past you would not even mention your sister Sodom. You were proud at that time. 
Ezekiel16:57 That was before your sin was uncovered. Now the daughters of Edom make fun of you. So do all of her neighbors and the daughters of the Philistines. Everyone who lives around you looks down on you. 
Ezekiel16:58 You will be punished for your impure conduct. I will also punish you for the other evil things you have done. I hate all of those things,"" announces the Lord." 
Ezekiel16:59 The Lord and King says, ""I will punish you in keeping with what you have done. I sealed with an oath the covenant I made with you. You hated that oath. And you broke my covenant." 
Ezekiel16:60 But I will remember my covenant with you. I made it with you when you were young. Now I will make a new covenant with you. It will last forever. 
Ezekiel16:61 Then you will remember how you have lived. You will be ashamed when I give you Samaria and Sodom. Samaria is your older sister. Sodom is your younger one. I will give them and their daughters to you as daughters. That can't happen based on my old covenant with you. 
Ezekiel16:62 So I will make my new covenant with you. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel16:63 I will pay for all of the sins you have committed. Then you will remember what you have done. You will be ashamed of it. Because of your shame, you will never speak against me again,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel17:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel17:2 Son of man, tell the people of Israel a story about their kings. Let them know what will happen to them." 
Ezekiel17:3 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""A great eagle came to the city of 'Lebanon.' It had powerful wings and a lot of long feathers. The feathers were colorful and beautiful. The eagle landed in the top of a cedar tree." 
Ezekiel17:4 It broke off the highest twig. It carried it away to Babylonia. There are many traders in that land. The eagle planted the twig in the city of Babylon. 
Ezekiel17:5  ' Then it got a seed from your land. It put it in rich soil near plenty of water. It planted the seed like a willow tree. 
Ezekiel17:6 The seed grew into a low, spreading vine. Its branches turned toward the eagle. And its roots remained under the eagle. So the seed became a vine. It produced branches and put out leaves." 
Ezekiel17:7  ' But there was another great eagle. It also had powerful wings and a lot of feathers. The vine now sent its roots out toward that eagle. It sent them out from the place where it was planted. And it reached out its branches to the eagle for water. 
Ezekiel17:8 The seed had been planted in good soil near plenty of water. Then it could produce branches and bear fruit. It could become a beautiful vine. ' 
Ezekiel17:9 Ezekiel, tell the Israelites, 'The Lord and King asks, ""Will the vine grow? Won't it be pulled up by its roots? Won't all of its fruit be stripped off? Won't it dry up? All of its new growth will dry up. It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it up." 
Ezekiel17:10 It will not grow even if it is pulled up and planted somewhere else. It will dry up completely when the east wind strikes it. It will dry up in the place where it grew. ' 
Ezekiel17:11 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel17:12 These people refuse to obey me. Ask them, 'Don't you know what these things mean?' Tell them, 'Nebuchadnezzar went to Jerusalem. He was king of Babylonia. He carried off King Jehoiachin and the nobles. He brought them back with him to the city of Babylon." 
Ezekiel17:13  'Then Nebuchadnezzar made a peace treaty with Zedekiah. He was a member of Jerusalem's royal family. Nebuchadnezzar made him take an oath and promise he would keep the treaty. He also took the leading men of the land away as prisoners. 
Ezekiel17:14 He did it to bring their kingdom down. It would not rise again. In fact, it would be able to last only by keeping his treaty." 
Ezekiel17:15  'But Zedekiah turned against him. He sent messengers to Egypt. They went there to get horses and a large army. Will he succeed? Will he who does things like that escape? Can he break the peace treaty and still escape? 
Ezekiel17:16  'Zedekiah will die in Babylon,' announces the Lord and King. 'And that is just as sure as I am alive. He will die in the land of King Nebuchadnezzar, who put him on the throne. He is the king whose oath Zedekiah hated. He also broke Nebuchadnezzar's treaty." 
Ezekiel17:17  'So Nebuchadnezzar will build ramps against the walls of Jerusalem. He will set up war machines to destroy many lives. Pharaoh will not be able to help Zedekiah during the war. The huge and mighty army of Egypt will not be of any help. 
Ezekiel17:18  'Zedekiah hated Nebuchadnezzar's oath and broke his treaty. He had made a firm promise to keep it. But he broke it anyway. So he will not escape. 
Ezekiel17:19  'The Lord and King says, ""Zedekiah hated the oath he took in my name. He broke the treaty. So I will pay him back. And that is just as sure as I am alive." 
Ezekiel17:20 I will spread out my net to catch him. He will be caught in my trap. I will bring him to Babylon. I will judge him there because he was not faithful to me. 
Ezekiel17:21  ' All of Zedekiah's troops will be killed with swords when they try to run away. Those who are left alive will be scattered to the winds. Then you will know that I have spoken. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel17:22  'The Lord and King says, ""I myself will get a twig from the very top of a cedar tree and plant it. I will break off the highest twig. I will plant it on a very high mountain." 
Ezekiel17:23 I will plant it on the high mountains of Israel. It will produce branches and bear fruit. It will become a beautiful cedar tree. All kinds of birds will make their nests in it. They will live in the shade of its branches. 
Ezekiel17:24 All of the trees in the fields will know that I bring tall trees down. I make short trees grow tall. I dry up green trees. And I make dry trees green.  'I have spoken. I will do it. I am the Lord.' 
Ezekiel18:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel18:2 You people have a proverb about the land of Israel. What do you mean by it? It says, "" 'The parents eat sour grapes. But the children have a bitter taste in their mouths.'" 
Ezekiel18:3 You will not use that proverb in Israel anymore,"" announces the Lord and King. ""And that is just as sure as I am alive." 
Ezekiel18:4 Everyone belongs to me. Father and son alike belong to me. People will die because of their own sins. 
Ezekiel18:5 Suppose a godly man does what is fair and right. 
Ezekiel18:6 And he does not eat at the mountain temples. He does not worship the statues of Israel's gods. He does not have sex with another man's wife. He does not make love to his own wife during her monthly period. 
Ezekiel18:7 He does not treat anyone badly. Instead, he always gives back what he took as security for a loan. He does not steal. Instead, he gives his food to hungry people. He provides clothes for those who are naked." 
Ezekiel18:8 He does not lend money and charge too much interest. He keeps himself from doing what is wrong. He judges cases fairly. 
Ezekiel18:9 He follows my rules. He is faithful in keeping my laws. He always does what is right. You can be sure he will live,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel18:10 But suppose he has a mean son who harms other people. The son commits murder. Or he does some other things that are wrong. 
Ezekiel18:11 Suppose he does those things even though his father never did. Suppose he eats at the mountain temples. And he has sex with another man's wife. 
Ezekiel18:12 He treats poor and needy people badly. He steals. He does not pay back what he owes. He worships statues of gods. He does other things I hate. 
Ezekiel18:13 He lends money and charges too much interest. Will a man like that live? He will not! You can be sure he will be put to death. And what happens to him will be his own fault. He did many things I hate. 
Ezekiel18:14 But suppose that son has a son of his own. And the son sees all of the sins his father commits. He sees them, but he does not do them." 
Ezekiel18:15 Suppose he does not eat at the mountain temples. And he does not worship the statues of Israel's gods. He does not have sex with another man's wife. 
Ezekiel18:16 He does not treat anyone badly. He does not make people give him something to prove they will pay back what they owe him. He does not steal. Instead, he gives his food to hungry people. He provides clothes for those who are naked." 
Ezekiel18:17 He keeps himself from committing sins. He does not lend money and charge too much interest. He keeps my laws and follows my rules. He will not die because of his father's sin. You can be sure he will live. 
Ezekiel18:18 But his father will die because of his own sin. He got rich by cheating others. He robbed his relatives. He also did what was wrong among his people. 
Ezekiel18:19 But you still ask, 'Is the son guilty along with his father?' No! The son did what was fair and right. He was careful to keep all of my rules. So you can be sure he will live." 
Ezekiel18:20 People will die because of their own sins. The son will not be guilty because of what his father did. And the father will not be guilty because of what his son did. The right things a godly person does will be added to his account. The wrong things a sinful person does will be charged against him. 
Ezekiel18:21 But suppose a sinful person turns away from all of the sins he has committed. And he keeps all my rules. He does what is fair and right. Then you can be sure he will live. He will not die. 
Ezekiel18:22 None of the sins he has committed will be held against him. Because of the godly things he has done, he will live." 
Ezekiel18:23 When sinful people die, it does not give me any joy,"" announces the Lord and King. ""But when they turn away from their sins and live, that makes me very happy." 
Ezekiel18:24 Suppose a godly person stops doing what is right. And he commits sin. He does the same evil things a sinful person does. He does things I hate. Then he will not live. I will not remember any of the right things he has done. He has not been faithful to me. He has also committed many other sins. So he is guilty. He will die. 
Ezekiel18:25 But you say, 'What the Lord does isn't fair.' Listen to me, people of Israel. What I do is always fair. What you do is not." 
Ezekiel18:26 Suppose a godly person stops doing what is right. And he commits sin. Then he will die because of it. He will die because of the sin he has committed. 
Ezekiel18:27 But suppose a sinful person turns away from the evil things he has done. And he does what is fair and right. Then he will save his life. 
Ezekiel18:28 He thinks about all of the evil things he has done. And he turns away from them. So you can be sure he will live. He will not die. 
Ezekiel18:29 But the people of Israel still say, 'What the Lord does isn't fair.' People of Israel, what I do is always fair. What you do is not." 
Ezekiel18:30 So I will judge you people. I will judge each of you in keeping with what you have done,"" announces the Lord and King. ""Turn away from your sins! Turn away from all of the evil things you have done. Then sin will not bring you down." 
Ezekiel18:31 Get rid of all of the evil things you have done. Let me give you a new heart and a new spirit. Then you will be faithful to me. Why should you die, people of Israel?" 
Ezekiel18:32 When anyone dies, it does not give me any joy,"" announces the Lord and King. ""So turn away from your sins. Then you will live!" 
Ezekiel19:1 Sing a song of sadness about Israel's princes. 
Ezekiel19:2 Say to Israel, "" 'You were like a mother lion to your princes. She lay down among the young lions. She brought up her cubs." 
Ezekiel19:3 One of them was Jehoahaz. He became a strong lion. He learned to tear apart what he caught. And he ate men up. 
Ezekiel19:4 The nations heard about him. They trapped him in their pit. They put hooks in his face. And they led him away to Egypt. 
Ezekiel19:5  'The mother lion looked and waited. But all of her hope was gone. So she got another one of her cubs. She made him into a strong lion. 
Ezekiel19:6 He prowled with the lions. He became very strong. He learned to tear apart what he caught. And he ate men up. 
Ezekiel19:7 He broke down their forts. He completely destroyed their towns. The land and all those who were in it were terrified when he roared. 
Ezekiel19:8 Then nations came against him. They came from all around him. They spread out their net to catch him. He was trapped in their pit. 
Ezekiel19:9 They used hooks to pull him into a cage. They brought him to the king of Babylonia. They put him in prison. So his roar was not heard anymore on the mountains of Israel. 
Ezekiel19:10  'Israel, you were like a vine in a vineyard. It was planted near water. It had a lot of fruit and many branches. There was plenty of water." 
Ezekiel19:11 Its branches were strong. Each was good enough to be made into a ruler's rod. The vine grew high above all of the leaves. It stood out because it was so tall and had so many branches. 
Ezekiel19:12 But Nebuchadnezzar became angry. He pulled it up by its roots. He threw it to the ground. The east wind dried it up. Its fruit was stripped off. Its strong branches dried up. And fire destroyed them. 
Ezekiel19:13 Now it is planted in the Babylonian desert. It is in a dry and thirsty land. 
Ezekiel19:14 One of its main branches was Zedekiah. Fire spread from it and burned up its fruit. None of its branches is good enough to be made into a ruler's rod.'That is a song of sadness. And that is how it should be used. 
Ezekiel20:1 It was the seventh year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the tenth day of the fifth month, some of the elders of Israel came to ask the Lord for advice. They sat down with me." 
Ezekiel20:2 Then a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel20:3 Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Have you come to ask me for advice? I will not let you do that,"" announces the Lord and King. ""And that is just as sure as I am alive."" '" 
Ezekiel20:4 Are you going to judge them, son of man? Will you judge them? Tell them the evil things their people did long ago. I hate those things." 
Ezekiel20:5 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""I chose Israel. On that day I raised my hand and took an oath. I made a promise to the members of Jacob's family line. I made myself known to them in Egypt. I raised my hand and told them, 'I am the Lord your God.'" 
Ezekiel20:6  ' On that day I promised I would bring them out of Egypt. I told them I would take them to a land I had found for them. It had plenty of milk and honey. It was the most beautiful land of all. 
Ezekiel20:7 I said to them, 'Each of you must get rid of the statues of the evil gods you worship. Do not pollute yourselves by worshiping the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.'" 
Ezekiel20:8  ' But they refused to obey me. They would not listen to me. They did not get rid of the evil gods they worshiped. And they did not turn away from Egypt's gods. So I said I would pour out all of my burning anger on them in Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:9  ' But I wanted my name to be honored. I kept it from being treated as if it were not holy. I did not want that to happen in front of the nations my people lived among. I had made myself known to Israel in the sight of those nations. I had brought my people out of Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:10  ' So I led them out of Egypt. I brought them into the Desert of Sinai. 
Ezekiel20:11 I gave them my rules. I made my laws known to them. The one who obeys them will live by them. 
Ezekiel20:12 I also told them to observe my Sabbath days. That is the sign of the covenant I made with them. I wanted them to know that I made them holy. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel20:13  ' But the people of Israel refused to obey me in the desert. They did not follow my rules. They turned their backs on my laws. The one who obeys them will live by them. They totally misused my Sabbath days. So I said I would pour out my burning anger on them. I would destroy them in the desert. 
Ezekiel20:14  ' But I wanted my name to be honored. I kept it from being treated as if it were not holy. I did not want that to happen in front of the nations. They had seen me bring Israel out of Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:15  ' I also raised my hand and took an oath in the desert. I told my people I would not bring them into the land I had given them. It had plenty of milk and honey. It was the most beautiful land of all. 
Ezekiel20:16 But they turned their backs on my laws. They did not follow my rules. They misused my Sabbaths. Their hearts were committed to worshiping the statues of their gods. 
Ezekiel20:17  ' Then I felt sorry for them. So I did not destroy them. I did not put an end to them in the desert. 
Ezekiel20:18 I spoke to their children there. I said, 'Do not follow the rules your parents gave you. Do not obey their laws. Do not pollute yourselves by worshiping their gods." 
Ezekiel20:19 I am the Lord your God. So follow my rules. Be careful to obey my laws. 
Ezekiel20:20 Keep my Sabbath days holy. That is the sign of the covenant I made with you. You will know that I am the Lord your God.' 
Ezekiel20:21  ' But their children refused to obey me. They did not follow my rules. They were not careful to keep my laws. The one who obeys them will live by them. They misused my Sabbaths. So I said I would pour out all of my burning anger on them in the desert. 
Ezekiel20:22  ' But I kept myself from punishing them at that time. I wanted my name to be honored. So I kept it from being treated as if it were not holy. I did not want that to happen in front of the nations. They had seen me bring Israel out of Egypt. 
Ezekiel20:23  ' I also raised my hand and took an oath in the desert. I told my people I would scatter them among the nations. I would send them to other countries. 
Ezekiel20:24 They had not obeyed my laws. They had turned their backs on my rules. They had misused my Sabbaths. Their eyes longed to see the statues of their parents' gods. 
Ezekiel20:25  ' I even let them follow rules that were not good. I let them have laws they could not live by. 
Ezekiel20:26 I let them become polluted by offering sacrifices to other gods. They even sacrificed the first male child who was born in each family. I wanted to fill them with horror. Then they would know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel20:27 Son of man, speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Your people spoke evil things against me long ago. They deserted me." 
Ezekiel20:28 But I brought them into the land. I had taken an oath and promised to give the land to them. Then they offered sacrifices that made me very angry. They did it on every high hill and under every green tree. There they brought their sweet-smelling incense. And there they poured out their drink offerings. 
Ezekiel20:29 Then I said to them, 'What? You are going to a high place?' "" ' "" That high place is called Bamah to this very day." 
Ezekiel20:30 The Lord said to me, ""Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Are you going to pollute yourselves the way your people did? Do you long to see the statues of their evil gods?" 
Ezekiel20:31 You pollute yourselves by offering sacrifices to other gods. You even sacrifice your children in the fire. You continue to do those things to this very day. People of Israel, should I let you ask me for advice? I will not let you do that,"" announces the Lord and King. ""And that is just as sure as I am alive." 
Ezekiel20:32  ' You say, 'We want to be like the other nations. We want to be like all of the other people in the world. They serve gods that are made out of wood and stone.' But what you have in mind will never happen." 
Ezekiel20:33 I will rule over you by reaching out my mighty hand and powerful arm. I will pour my burning anger out on you,"" announces the Lord and King. ""And that is just as sure as I am alive." 
Ezekiel20:34  ' I will bring you back from the nations. I will gather you together from the countries where you have been scattered. I will reach out my mighty hand and powerful arm. I will pour my burning anger out on you. 
Ezekiel20:35 I will send you among the nations. There I will judge you face to face. It will be as if I were judging you in the desert again. 
Ezekiel20:36 Long ago, I judged your people in the desert of Egypt. In the same way, I will judge you,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel20:37  ' I will take note of you as you pass under my shepherd's rod. I will separate those who obey me from those who do not. And I will give the blessings of the new covenant to those of you who obey me. 
Ezekiel20:38 I will get rid of those among you who turn against me and refuse to obey me. I will bring them out of the land where they are living. But they will not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel20:39  ' People of Israel, the Lord and King says, 'Go, every one of you! Serve your gods. But later you will listen to me. You will no longer treat my name as if it were not holy. You will not offer sacrifices to other gods anymore." 
Ezekiel20:40  '  'People of Israel, you will serve me,' announces the Lord and King. 'You will serve me on my high and holy mountain in Jerusalem. There I will accept you. I will require your offerings and your finest gifts. I want you to bring them along with all of your other holy sacrifices." 
Ezekiel20:41 I will bring you back from the nations. I will gather you together from the countries where you have been scattered. Then I will accept you as if you were sweet-smelling incense. I will show that I am holy among you. The nations will see it. 
Ezekiel20:42  '  'I will bring you into the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord. Long ago I raised my hand and took an oath. I promised to give that land to your people. 
Ezekiel20:43 There you will remember your conduct. You will think about everything you did that polluted you. And you will hate yourselves because of all of the evil things you have done. 
Ezekiel20:44  '  'People of Israel, I will deal with you for the honor of my name. I will not deal with you based on your evil conduct and sinful practices. Then you will know that I am the Lord,' announces the Lord and King."" ' """ 
Ezekiel20:45 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel20:46 Son of man, turn your attention to Judah in the south. Preach against it. Prophesy against its forests." 
Ezekiel20:47 Tell them, 'Listen to the Lord's message. The Lord and King says, ""I am about to set you on fire. The fire will destroy all of your trees. It will burn up green trees and dry trees alike. The blazing flame will not be put out. The faces of everyone from south to north will be burned by it." 
Ezekiel20:48 Everyone will see that I started the fire. It will not be put out. I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel20:49 Then I said, ""Lord and King, people are talking about me. They are saying, 'Isn't he just telling stories?' """ 
Ezekiel21:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel21:2 Son of man, turn your attention to Jerusalem. Preach against the temple. Prophesy against the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel21:3 Tell them, 'The Lord says, ""I am against you. I will pull out my sword. I will cut off from you godly people and sinful people alike." 
Ezekiel21:4 Because I am going to cut them off, my sword will be ready to use. I will strike everyone down from south to north." 
Ezekiel21:5 Then all people will know that I have pulled out my sword. I will not put it back. I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel21:6 Groan, son of man! Groan in front of your people with a broken heart and bitter sorrow." 
Ezekiel21:7 They will ask you, 'Why are you groaning?' ""Then you will say, 'Because of the news that is coming. The hearts of all of the people will melt away in fear. Their hands will not be able to help them. Their spirits will grow weak. And their knees will become as weak as water.' ""The news is coming! You can be sure those things will happen,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel21:8 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel21:9 Son of man, prophesy. Say, 'The Lord says, "" ' ""A sword! A sword! A sharp and shiny sword is coming from Babylonia!" 
Ezekiel21:10 It is sharpened to kill people. It flashes like lightning. '  The people say, ""Should we take delight in the rod of the ruler of the Lord's son Judah? The sword looks down on every stick like that.""" 
Ezekiel21:11 The Lord says, ""I have told Nebuchadnezzar to shine his sword. It is in his hand. It has been sharpened and shined. It is ready for the killer's hand." 
Ezekiel21:12 Son of man, cry out and sob. The sword is against my people. It is against all of the princes of Israel. It will kill them along with the rest of my people. So beat your chest in sorrow." 
Ezekiel21:13 You can be sure that testing will come. Why does the sword look down on the rod? Because the rod will not continue to rule,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel21:14 Son of man, prophesy. Clap your hands. Let the sword strike twice. Let it strike even three times. It is a sword to kill people. It is a sword to kill many people. It is closing in on them from every side." 
Ezekiel21:15 People's hearts will melt away in fear. Many will be wounded or killed. I have prepared the sword to kill people at all of their city gates. It flashes like lightning. It is in the killer's hand. 
Ezekiel21:16 Sword, cut to the right. Then cut to the left. Strike people down everywhere your blade is turned." 
Ezekiel21:17 I too will clap my hands. My burning anger will calm down. I have spoken. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel21:18 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel21:19 Son of man, mark out on a map two roads for the sword to take. The sword belongs to the king of Babylonia. Both roads start from the same country. Put up a sign where the road turns off to the city of Rabbah." 
Ezekiel21:20 Mark out one road for the sword to take against Rabbah in Ammon. Mark out another against Judah and the walls of Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel21:21 The king of Babylonia will stop at the place where the two roads meet. He will ask his gods to tell him which way to go. He will cast lots by pulling arrows out of a bag. And he will look carefully at the liver of a sheep. 
Ezekiel21:22 His right hand will pull out the arrow for Jerusalem. There he will get huge logs ready to knock down its gates. He will give the command to kill its people. He will sound the battle cry. He will build a ramp up to the city wall. He will bring in his war machines. 
Ezekiel21:23 The decision to attack Jerusalem will seem like the wrong advice to those who made a treaty with Nebuchadnezzar. But he will remind them that they are guilty. And he will take them away as prisoners. 
Ezekiel21:24 So the Lord and King says, ""You people have reminded everyone of how guilty you are. You have done it by refusing to obey me or any other authority. Everything you do clearly shows how sinful you are. So you will be taken away as prisoners.""" 
Ezekiel21:25 King Zedekiah, the day for you to be punished has finally come. You are an unholy and evil prince in Israel. Your time is up." 
Ezekiel21:26 The Lord and King says, ""Take off your turban. Remove your crown. Things will not be as they were in the past. Those who are not important will be honored. And those who are honored will be brought down." 
Ezekiel21:27 Jerusalem will fall. I will destroy it. It will not be rebuilt until the true king comes. After all, the kingdom belongs to him. I will give it to him." 
Ezekiel21:28 Son of man, prophesy. Say, 'The Lord and King speaks about the Ammonites. He also talks about the way they laugh because of Jerusalem's fall. He says, "" ' ""A sword! A sword! Nebuchadnezzar's sword is ready to kill you. It is shined to destroy you. It flashes like lightning." 
Ezekiel21:29 The visions of your prophets are false. They use magic to try to find out what is going to happen to you. But their magic tricks are lies. The sword will strike the necks of you sinful people. You will be killed. The day for you to be punished has finally come. Your time is up. 
Ezekiel21:30 Ammon, return your sword to its place. In the land where you were created, I will judge you. That is where you came from." 
Ezekiel21:31 I will pour out my anger on you. I will breathe out my burning anger against you. I will hand you over to mean people. They are skilled at destroying others. 
Ezekiel21:32 You will be burned in the fire. Your blood will be spilled in your land. You will not be remembered anymore. I have spoken. I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel22:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel22:2 Son of man, are you going to judge Jerusalem? Will you judge this city that has so many murderers in it? Then tell its people they have done many evil things. I hate those things." 
Ezekiel22:3 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""Your city brings death on itself. You spill blood inside its walls. You pollute yourselves by making statues of gods." 
Ezekiel22:4 You are guilty of spilling blood. The statues you have made have polluted you.  ' You have brought your days to a close. The end of your years has come. So the nations will make fun of you. All of the countries will laugh at you. 
Ezekiel22:5 Those who are near you will tell jokes about you. So will those who are far away. Trouble fills the streets of your sinful city. 
Ezekiel22:6  ' The princes of Israel are in your city. All of them use their power to spill blood. 
Ezekiel22:7 They have made fun of fathers and mothers alike. They have crushed outsiders. They have treated badly the children whose fathers have died. They have done the same thing to widows. 
Ezekiel22:8  ' You have looked down on the holy things that were set apart to me. You have misused my Sabbath days. 
Ezekiel22:9 You have spread lies about others so you can spill someone's blood. You eat at the mountain temples. You commit impure acts. 
Ezekiel22:10  ' You bring shame on your fathers by having sex with their wives. You have sex with women during their monthly period. That is when they are 'unclean.' 
Ezekiel22:11 One of you has sex with another man's wife. I hate that sin. Another brings shame on his daughter-in-law by having sex with her. Still another has sex with his sister, even though she is his own father's daughter." 
Ezekiel22:12  ' You accept money from people who want special favors. You do it to spill someone's blood. You charge too much interest when you lend money. You get rich by cheating your neighbors. And you have forgotten me,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel22:13  ' I will clap my hands because I am so angry. You got rich by cheating others. You spilled blood inside the walls of your city. 
Ezekiel22:14 Will you be brave on the day I deal with you? Will you be strong at that time? I have spoken. I will do it. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel22:15  ' I will scatter you among the nations. I will send you to other countries. I will put an end to your 'uncleanness.' 
Ezekiel22:16 You will be polluted in the sight of the nations. Then you will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel22:17 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel22:18 Son of man, the people of Israel have become like scum to me. All of them are like the copper, tin, iron and lead that are left inside a furnace. They are only the scum that is removed from silver.""" 
Ezekiel22:19 So the Lord and King says, ""People of Israel, all of you have become like scum. So I will gather you together in Jerusalem." 
Ezekiel22:20 Men put silver, copper, iron, lead and tin into a furnace. They melt it with a blazing fire. In the same way, I will gather you. I will pour out my burning anger on you. I will put you inside the city and melt you." 
Ezekiel22:21 I will gather you together. My burning anger will blaze out at you. And you will be melted inside Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel22:22 Silver is melted in a furnace. And you will be melted inside the city. Then you will know that I have poured out my burning anger on you. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel22:23 Another message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel22:24 Son of man, speak to the land. Tell it, 'You have not had any rain or showers. That is because I am angry with you.'" 
Ezekiel22:25 Ezekiel, the princes of the land are like a roaring lion that tears its food apart. They eat people up. They take treasures and other valuable things. They cause many women in the land to become widows." 
Ezekiel22:26 Its priests break my law. They treat things that are set apart to me as if they were not holy. They treat holy and common things as if they were the same. They teach that there is no difference between things that are 'clean' and things that are not. They refuse to keep my Sabbath days. So they treat me as if I were not holy. 
Ezekiel22:27 The officials in the land are like wolves that tear their food apart. They spill blood and kill people to get rich. 
Ezekiel22:28 The prophets cover up those acts for them. The visions of those prophets are false. They use magic to try to find out what is going to happen. But their magic tricks are lies. They say, 'The Lord and King says,' But I have not spoken to them." 
Ezekiel22:29 The people of the land get rich by cheating others. They steal. They crush those who are poor and in need. They treat outsiders badly. They refuse to be fair to them. 
Ezekiel22:30 I looked for a man among them who would stand up for Jerusalem. I tried to find someone who would pray to me for the land. Then I would not have to destroy it. But I could not find anyone who would pray for it. 
Ezekiel22:31 So I will pour out my anger on its people. I will destroy them because my anger burns against them. And anything that happens to them will be their own fault,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel23:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel23:2 Son of man, once there were two women. They had the same mother." 
Ezekiel23:3 They became prostitutes in Egypt. They have been unfaithful to me since they were young. In that land they allowed their breasts to be touched. They permitted their virgin breasts to be kissed. 
Ezekiel23:4 The older sister was named Oholah. The younger one was Oholibah. They belonged to me. Sons and daughters were born to them. Oholah stands for Samaria. And Oholibah stands for Jerusalem. 
Ezekiel23:5 Oholah was unfaithful to me even while she still belonged to me. She longed for her Assyrian lovers. 
Ezekiel23:6 They included soldiers who wore blue uniforms. They also included governors and commanders. All of them were young and handsome. They rode horses. 
Ezekiel23:7 She gave herself as a prostitute to all of Assyria's finest warriors. She polluted herself with the statues of the gods of everyone she longed for. 
Ezekiel23:8 She started being a prostitute in Egypt. And she never stopped. When she was young, men had sex with her. They kissed her virgin breasts. They used up all of their sinful longings on her." 
Ezekiel23:9 So I handed her over to her Assyrian lovers. She longed for them. 
Ezekiel23:10 They stripped her naked. They took her sons and daughters away. And they killed her with their swords. Other women laughed when that happened. I was the one who had punished her. 
Ezekiel23:11 Her sister Oholibah saw it. But her evil longing for sexual sin was worse than her sister's. 
Ezekiel23:12 She too longed for the men of Assyria. They included governors and commanders. They included soldiers who wore uniforms. They also included men who rode horses. All of them were young and handsome. 
Ezekiel23:13 I saw that she too polluted herself. So both sisters did the same evil things. 
Ezekiel23:14 But Oholibah went even further with her sexual sins. She saw pictures of men drawn on a wall. They were figures of Babylonians drawn in red. 
Ezekiel23:15 They had belts around their waists. They wore flowing turbans on their heads. All of them looked like Babylonian chariot officers. They were from the land of the Chaldeans. 
Ezekiel23:16 As soon as she saw the pictures, she longed for the men. So she sent messengers to them in Babylonia." 
Ezekiel23:17 Then the Babylonians came to her. They went to bed with her. They made love to her. They polluted her when they had sex with her. After they did it, she became sick of them. So she turned away from them." 
Ezekiel23:18 She acted like a prostitute who had no shame at all. She openly showed her naked body. I became sick of what she was doing. So I turned away from her. I had also turned away from her sister. 
Ezekiel23:19 But Oholibah offered her body to her lovers again and again. She remembered the days when she was a young prostitute in Egypt. 
Ezekiel23:20 There she had longed for her lovers. Their private parts seemed as big as those of donkeys. And their flow of semen appeared to be as much as that of horses. 
Ezekiel23:21 So you wanted to return to the days when you were young. You longed for the time when you first became impure in Egypt. That was when you allowed your breasts to be kissed. And you permitted your young breasts to be touched. 
Ezekiel23:22 So the Lord and King says, ""Oholibah, I will stir up your lovers against you. You became sick of them. You turned away from them. But I will bring them against you from every side." 
Ezekiel23:23 They include the Babylonians and all of the Chaldeans. They include the men from Pekod, Shoa and Koa. They also include all of the Assyrians. They are young and handsome. Some of them are governors and commanders. Others are chariot officers. Still others are very high officials. All of them ride horses." 
Ezekiel23:24 So a huge army will come against you with weapons, chariots and wagons. They will take up positions against you on every side. They will carry large and small shields. They will wear helmets. I will turn you over to them to be punished. They will punish you in their own way." 
Ezekiel23:25 I will pour out my jealous anger on you. And the army's anger will burn against you. They will cut off your noses and ears. Some of you who are left will be killed with swords. They will take your sons and daughters away. Others of you who are left will be burned up. 
Ezekiel23:26 The army will also strip your clothes off. They will take your fine jewelry away from you. 
Ezekiel23:27 You became an impure prostitute in Egypt. But I will put a stop to all of that. You will no longer want to do any of it. You will not remember Egypt anymore. 
Ezekiel23:28 The Lord and King says, ""I am about to hand you over to people you hate. You became sick of them. You turned away from them." 
Ezekiel23:29 They will punish you because they hate you so much. They will take everything you have worked for away from you. They will leave you naked and bare. Then everyone will see that you are a prostitute who has no shame at all. You were impure. You offered your body to your lovers again and again. 
Ezekiel23:30 That is why you will be punished. You longed for lovers in other nations. You polluted yourself by worshiping their gods. 
Ezekiel23:31 You did the same things your sister Oholah did. So I will put her cup in your hand. It is filled with the wine of my anger. 
Ezekiel23:32 The Lord and King says to Oholibah, ""You will drink from your sister's cup. It is large and deep. It is filled with the wine of my anger. So others will laugh at you. They will make fun of you." 
Ezekiel23:33 You will become drunk and sad. The cup of my anger will completely destroy you. It is the same cup your sister Samaria drank from. 
Ezekiel23:34 You will drink from it until it is empty. Then you will throw it down and break it in pieces. And you will claw at your breasts. I have spoken,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel23:35 So the Lord and King says, ""You have forgotten me. You have pushed me behind your back. You have been impure. You have acted like a prostitute. So I will punish you.""" 
Ezekiel23:36 The Lord said to me, ""Son of man, are you going to judge Oholah and Oholibah? Then tell them they have done many evil things. I hate those things." 
Ezekiel23:37 They have committed adultery. Their hands are covered with the blood of the people they have murdered. They have worshiped other gods. They have not been faithful to me. They have even sacrificed their children as food to other gods. Those children belonged to me. 
Ezekiel23:38 Here are some other things the sisters have done to me. They have polluted my temple. They have misused my Sabbath days. 
Ezekiel23:39 They have sacrificed their children to their gods. On that same day they entered my temple and polluted it. That is what they have done in my house. 
Ezekiel23:40 They even sent messengers to bring men from far away. When the men arrived, Oholibah took a bath. She put makeup on her eyes. She put her jewelry on." 
Ezekiel23:41 She sat down on a beautiful couch. A table was in front of it. There she put the incense and olive oil that belonged to me. 
Ezekiel23:42 The noise of a carefree crowd was all around her. Sabeans were brought from the desert. Other men were brought along with them. They put bracelets on the arms of the two sisters. They put beautiful crowns on their heads. 
Ezekiel23:43 Then I spoke about Oholibah. She was worn out by adultery. I said, 'Let them use her as a prostitute. After all, that is what she is.'" 
Ezekiel23:44 So they had sex with her. In fact, they had sex with both of those impure women, Oholah and Oholibah. It was just like having sex with prostitutes." 
Ezekiel23:45 But men who are right with God will sentence the sisters to be punished. They will be punished in the same way as women who commit adultery and murder. After all, they have committed adultery. And their hands are covered with the blood of the people they have murdered.""" 
Ezekiel23:46 The Lord and King says, ""Bring an angry crowd against the sisters. Hand them over to those who will terrify them and steal everything they have." 
Ezekiel23:47 The crowd will kill them by throwing stones at them. They will cut them down with their swords. They will kill their sons and daughters. And they will burn their houses down. 
Ezekiel23:48 So I will put an end to impurity in the land. Then all of its women will be warned. They will not want to be like the sisters. 
Ezekiel23:49 Those sisters will be punished because of the impure things they have done. They will be judged because they have worshiped other gods. Then they will know that I am the Lord and King. 
Ezekiel24:1 It was the ninth year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the tenth day of the tenth month, a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel24:2 Son of man, write down today's date. The king of Babylonia has surrounded Jerusalem and attacked it this very day." 
Ezekiel24:3 Your people refuse to obey me. So tell them a story. Say to them, 'The Lord and King told me, "" ' ""Put a cooking pot on the fire. Pour water into it." 
Ezekiel24:4 Put pieces of meat in it. Use all of the best pieces. Use the leg and shoulder. Fill it with the best bones. 
Ezekiel24:5 Pick the finest animal in the flock. Pile wood under the pot to cook the bones. Bring the water to a boil. Cook the bones in it. ' 
Ezekiel24:6 The Lord and King says, ""How terrible it will be for this city! It has so many murderers in it. How terrible for the pot that is coated with scum! The scum on it will not go away. Take the meat and bones out of the pot piece by piece. Do not cast lots for them." 
Ezekiel24:7 The blood Jerusalem's people spilled is inside its walls. They poured it out on a bare rock. They did not pour it on the ground. If they had, dust would have covered it up." 
Ezekiel24:8 So I put their blood on the bare rock. I did not want it to be covered up. I poured my burning anger out on them. I paid them back. 
Ezekiel24:9 So the Lord and King said to me, ""How terrible it will be for this city! It has so many murderers in it. I too will pile the wood high." 
Ezekiel24:10 So pile on the wood. Light the fire. Cook the meat well. Mix in the spices. Let the bones be blackened. 
Ezekiel24:11 Then set the empty pot on the coals. Let it get hot. Let its copper glow. Then what is not pure in it will melt. Its scum will be burned away. 
Ezekiel24:12 But it can't be cleaned up. Its thick scum has not been removed. Even fire can't burn it off. 
Ezekiel24:13 Jerusalem, you are really impure. I tried to clean you up. But you would not let me make you pure. So you will not be clean again until my burning anger against you has calmed down." 
Ezekiel24:14 I have spoken. The time has come for me to act. I will not hold back. I will not feel sorry for you. I will do what I said I would do. You will be judged for your conduct and actions. I am the Lord,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel24:15 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel24:16 Son of man, I will take away from you the wife you delight in. It will happen very soon. But do not sing songs of sadness. Do not let any tears flow from your eyes." 
Ezekiel24:17 Groan quietly. Do not sob out loud over your wife when she dies. Keep your turban on your head. Keep your sandals on your feet. Do not cover the lower part of your face. Do not eat the food people eat to comfort them when someone dies. 
Ezekiel24:18 So I spoke to my people in the morning. And in the evening my wife died. The next morning I did what I had been commanded to do. 
Ezekiel24:19 Then the people said to me, ""Tell us what these things have to do with us.""" 
Ezekiel24:20 So I told them. I said, ""A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel24:21 'Speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, ""The Lord and King says, 'I am about to pollute my temple. I will let the Babylonians burn it down. It is the beautiful building you are so proud of. You take delight in it. You love it. The sons and daughters you left behind will be killed with swords." 
Ezekiel24:22  '  'So do what Ezekiel did. Do not cover the lower part of your face. Do not eat the food people eat to comfort them when someone dies. 
Ezekiel24:23 Keep your turbans on your heads. Keep your sandals on your feet. Do not cry or sob. You will waste away because you have sinned so much. You will groan among yourselves. 
Ezekiel24:24  '  'What Ezekiel has done will show you what is going to happen to you. You will do just as he has done. Then you will know that I am the Lord and King.'  ' 
Ezekiel24:25 Son of man, I will take away their beautiful temple. It is their joy and glory. They take delight in it. Their hearts long for it. I will also take away their sons and daughters." 
Ezekiel24:26 On the day I destroy everything, a man will escape. He will come and tell you the news." 
Ezekiel24:27 At that time I will open your mouth. Then you will no longer be silent. You will speak with the man. That will show them what will happen to them. And they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel25:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel25:2 Son of man, turn your attention to the Ammonites. Prophesy against them." 
Ezekiel25:3 Tell them, 'Listen to the message of the Lord and King. He says, ""You laughed when my temple was polluted. You also laughed when the land of Israel was completely destroyed. You made fun of the people of Judah when they were taken away as prisoners." 
Ezekiel25:4 So I am going to hand you over to the people of the east. They will set up their tents in your land. They will camp among you. They will eat your fruit. They will drink your milk. 
Ezekiel25:5 I will turn the city of Rabbah into grasslands for camels. Ammon will become a resting place for sheep. Then you will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel25:6 The Lord and King says, ""You clapped your hands. You stamped your feet. You hated the land of Israel deep down inside you. You were glad because of what happened to it." 
Ezekiel25:7 So I will reach out my powerful hand against you. I will give you and everything you have to the nations. I will cut you off from them. I will wipe you out. I will destroy you. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel25:8 The Lord and King says, ""Moab and Edom said, 'Look! The people of Judah have become like all of the other nations.'" 
Ezekiel25:9 So I will let Moab's enemies attack its lower hills. They will begin at the border towns. Those towns include Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon and Kiriathaim. They are the glory of that land." 
Ezekiel25:10 I will hand Moab over to the people of the east. I will also give the Ammonites to them. And the Ammonites will no longer be remembered among the nations. 
Ezekiel25:11 I will punish Moab. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel25:12 The Lord and King says, ""Edom got even with the people of Judah. That made them very guilty.""" 
Ezekiel25:13 He continues, ""I will reach out my hand against Edom. I will kill its people and their animals. I will completely destroy it. They will be killed with swords from Teman all the way to Dedan." 
Ezekiel25:14 I will use my people Israel to pay Edom back. They will punish Edom because my anger burns against it. They will know how I pay my enemies back,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel25:15 The Lord and King says, ""The Philistines hated Judah deep down inside them. So they tried to get even with them. They had been Judah's enemies for many years. So they tried to destroy them.""" 
Ezekiel25:16 He continues, ""I am about to reach out my hand against the Philistines. I will cut off the Kerethites. I will destroy those who remain along the coast." 
Ezekiel25:17 You can be sure that I will pay them back. I will punish them because my anger burns against them. When I pay them back, they will know that I am the Lord.""" 
Ezekiel26:1 It was the first day of a month near the end of the 11th year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel26:2 Son of man, Tyre laughed because of what happened to Jerusalem. The people of Tyre said, 'Jerusalem is the gateway to the nations. But the gate is broken. Its doors have swung open to us. Jerusalem has been destroyed. So now we will succeed.' """ 
Ezekiel26:3 The Lord and King says, ""But I am against you, Tyre. I will bring many nations against you. They will come in like the waves of the sea." 
Ezekiel26:4 They will destroy your walls. They will pull your towers down. I will clear away the stones of your broken-down buildings. I will turn you into nothing but a bare rock. 
Ezekiel26:5 Out in the Mediterranean Sea your island city will become a place to spread fishnets. I have spoken,"" announces the Lord and King. ""The nations will take you and everything you have." 
Ezekiel26:6 Your settlements on the coast will be destroyed by war. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel26:7 The Lord and King says, ""From the north I am going to bring Nebuchadnezzar against Tyre. He is king of Babylonia. He is the greatest king of all. He will come with horses and chariots. Horsemen and a great army will be brought along with him." 
Ezekiel26:8 He will go to war against you. He will destroy your settlements on the coast. He will bring in war machines to attack you. A ramp will be built up to your walls. He will use his shields against you. 
Ezekiel26:9 He will use huge logs to knock your walls down. He will destroy your towers with his weapons. 
Ezekiel26:10 He will have so many horses that they will cover you with dust. Your walls will shake because of the noise of his war horses, wagons and chariots. He will enter your gates, just as men enter a city whose walls have been broken through." 
Ezekiel26:11 The hoofs of his horses will pound in your streets. He will kill your people with swords. Your strong pillars will fall to the ground. 
Ezekiel26:12 His men will take away from you your wealth and anything else you have. They will pull your walls down. They will completely destroy your fine houses. They will throw the stones and lumber of your broken-down buildings into the sea. 
Ezekiel26:13 I will put an end to your noisy songs. No one will hear the music of your harps anymore. 
Ezekiel26:14 I will turn you into nothing but a bare rock. You will become a place to spread fishnets. You will never be rebuilt. I have spoken. I am the Lord,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel26:15 The Lord and King speaks to Tyre. He says, ""The lands along the coast will shake because of the sound of your fall. Wounded people will groan because so many are dying there." 
Ezekiel26:16 Then all of the princes along the coast will step down from their thrones. They will put their robes away. They will take off their beautiful clothes. They will sit on the ground. They will put on terror as if it were their clothes. They will tremble with fear all the time. They will be shocked because of what has happened to you. 
Ezekiel26:17 Then they will sing a song of sadness about you. They will say to you, "" 'Famous city, you have been completely destroyed! You were filled with sea traders. You and your citizens were a mighty power on the seas. You terrified everyone who lived in you." 
Ezekiel26:18 The lands along the coast trembled with fear when you fell. The islands in the sea were terrified when you were destroyed.' 
Ezekiel26:19 The Lord and King says to Tyre, ""I will turn you into an empty city. You will be like cities where no one lives anymore. I will cause the ocean to sweep over you. Its mighty waters will cover you." 
Ezekiel26:20 So I will bring you down together with those who go down into the grave. The people who are there lived long ago. You will have to live in the earth below. It will be like living in buildings that were destroyed many years ago. You will go down into the grave along with others. And you will never come back. You will not take your place in this world again. 
Ezekiel26:21 I will bring you to a horrible end. You will be gone forever. People will look for you. But they will never find you,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel27:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel27:2 Son of man, sing a song of sadness about Tyre." 
Ezekiel27:3 It is located at the gateway to the Mediterranean Sea. It does business with nations on many coasts. Say to it, 'The Lord and King says, "" ' ""Tyre, you say, 'I am perfect and beautiful.'" 
Ezekiel27:4 You were like a ship that ruled over the high seas. Your builders made you perfect and beautiful. 
Ezekiel27:5 They cut all of your lumber from pine trees on Mount Hermon. They used a cedar tree from Lebanon to make a mast for you. 
Ezekiel27:6 They made your oars out of oak trees from Bashan. They made your deck out of cypress wood from the coasts of Cyprus. They decorated it with ivory. 
Ezekiel27:7 Your sail was made out of beautiful, Egyptian linen. It served as your banner. Your shades were made out of blue and purple cloth. They were from the coasts of Elishah." 
Ezekiel27:8 Men from Sidon and Arvad manned your oars. Tyre, your sailors were skillful." 
Ezekiel27:9 Very skilled workers from Byblos were on board. They kept you waterproof. All of the ships on the sea and their sailors came up beside you. They brought their goods to trade for yours. 
Ezekiel27:10  ' City of Tyre, men from Persia, Lydia and Put served as soldiers in your army. They hung their shields and helmets on your walls. That brought glory to you." 
Ezekiel27:11 Men from Arvad and Cilicia guarded your walls on every side. Men from Gammad were in your towers. They hung their shields around your walls. They made you perfect and beautiful. 
Ezekiel27:12  ' Tarshish did business with you because you had so much wealth. They traded silver, iron, tin and lead for your goods." 
Ezekiel27:13  ' Greece, Tubal and Meshech did business with you. They traded slaves and bronze articles for your products." 
Ezekiel27:14  ' Men from Beth Togarmah traded work horses, war horses and mules for your goods." 
Ezekiel27:15  ' Men from Rhodes did business with you. Many lands along the coast bought goods from you. They paid you with ivory tusks and ebony wood. 
Ezekiel27:16  ' Aram did business with you because you had so many products for sale. They traded turquoise, purple cloth and needlework for your goods. They also traded fine linen, coral and rubies for them." 
Ezekiel27:17  ' Judah and Israel did business with you. They traded wheat from Minnith, sweets, honey, olive oil and lotion for your products." 
Ezekiel27:18  ' Damascus traded wine from Helbon and wool from Zahar to you. They did business with you because you had so many products and so much wealth. 
Ezekiel27:19  ' Danites and Greeks from Uzal bought goods from you. They traded wrought iron, cassia and cane for your products." 
Ezekiel27:20  ' Dedan traded saddle blankets to you. 
Ezekiel27:21  ' Arabia and all of the princes of Kedar bought goods from you. They traded you lambs, rams and goats for them." 
Ezekiel27:22  ' Traders from Sheba and Raamah did business with you. They traded the finest spices, jewels and gold for your goods." 
Ezekiel27:23  ' Haran, Canneh and Eden did business with you. So did traders from Sheba, Asshur and Kilmad." 
Ezekiel27:24 In your market place they traded beautiful clothes, blue cloth, and needlework to you. They also traded colorful rugs that had twisted cords and tight knots." 
Ezekiel27:25  ' The ships of Tarshish carry your products. You are like a ship filled with a heavy load in the middle of the sea. 
Ezekiel27:26 The sailors who man your oars take you out to the high seas. But the east wind will break you in pieces in the middle of the sea. 
Ezekiel27:27 You will be wrecked on that day. Your wealth, goods and products will sink deep into the sea. So will your sailors, officers, carpenters, traders and all of your soldiers. Anyone else on board will sink too." 
Ezekiel27:28 The lands along the coast will shake when your officers cry out. 
Ezekiel27:29 All those who man the oars will desert their ships. The sailors and all of the officers will stand on the shore. 
Ezekiel27:30 They will raise their voices. They will cry bitterly over you. They will sprinkle dust on their heads. They will roll in ashes. 
Ezekiel27:31 They will shave their heads because of you. And they will put on black clothes. They will sob over you. Their spirits will be greatly troubled. They will be very sad. 
Ezekiel27:32 As they sob and cry over you, they will sing a song of sadness about you. They will say, 'Who was ever like Tyre? It was destroyed in the sea.'" 
Ezekiel27:33 Your goods went out on the seas. You supplied many nations with what they needed. You had so much wealth and so many products. You made the kings of the earth rich. 
Ezekiel27:34 Now the sea has torn you apart. You have sunk deep down into it. Your products and all of your people have gone down with you. 
Ezekiel27:35 All those who live in the lands along the coast are shocked because of what has happened to you. Their kings tremble with fear. Their faces are twisted in horror. 
Ezekiel27:36 The traders among the nations hiss at you. You have come to a horrible end. And you will be gone forever. ' 
Ezekiel28:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel28:2 Son of man, speak to Ethbaal. He is the ruler of Tyre. Tell him, 'The Lord and King says, "" ' ""In your proud heart you say, 'I am a god. I sit on the throne of a god in the Mediterranean Sea.' But you are only a man. You are not a god. In spite of that, you think you are as wise as a god." 
Ezekiel28:3 Are you wiser than Daniel? Isn't even one secret hidden from you? 
Ezekiel28:3 Are you wiser than Daniel? Isn't even one secret hidden from you? 
Ezekiel28:4 You are wise and understanding. So you have become very wealthy. You have piled up gold and silver among your treasures. 
Ezekiel28:5 You have used your great skill in trading to increase your wealth. You are very rich. So your heart has become proud. ' 
Ezekiel28:6 The Lord and King says, ""You think you are wise. In fact, you claim to be as wise as a god." 
Ezekiel28:7 So I am going to bring strangers against you. They will not show you any pity at all. They will use their swords against your beauty and wisdom. They will strike down your shining glory. 
Ezekiel28:8 They will bring you down to the grave. You will die a horrible death in the middle of the sea. 
Ezekiel28:9 Then will you say, 'I am a god'? Will you say that to those who kill you? You will be only a man to those who kill you. You will not be a god to them." 
Ezekiel28:10 You will die just like those who have not been circumcised. Strangers will kill you. I have spoken,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel28:11 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel28:12 Son of man, sing a song of sadness about the king of Tyre. Tell him, 'The Lord and King says, "" ' ""You were the model of perfection. You were full of wisdom. You were perfect and beautiful." 
Ezekiel28:13 You were in Eden. It was my garden. All kinds of jewels decorated you. Here is a list of them. ruby, topaz and emerald chrysolite, onyx and jasper sapphire, turquoise and beryl Your settings and mountings were made out of gold. On the day you were created, they were prepared." 
Ezekiel28:14 I appointed you to be like a guardian cherub. I anointed you for that purpose. You were on my holy mountain. You walked among the gleaming jewels. 
Ezekiel28:15 Your conduct was without blame from the day you were created. But soon you began to sin. 
Ezekiel28:16 You traded with many nations. You harmed people everywhere. And you sinned. So I sent you away from my mountain in shame. Guardian cherub, I drove you away from among the gleaming jewels." 
Ezekiel28:17 You thought you were so handsome that it made your heart proud. You thought you were so glorious that it spoiled your wisdom. So I threw you down to the earth. I made an example out of you in front of kings. 
Ezekiel28:18 Your many sins and dishonest trade polluted your temple. So I made you go up in flames. I turned you into nothing but ashes on the ground. I let everyone see it. 
Ezekiel28:19 All of the nations that knew you are shocked because of what happened to you. You have come to a horrible end. And you will be gone forever. ' 
Ezekiel28:20 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel28:21 Son of man, turn your attention to the city of Sidon. Prophesy against it." 
Ezekiel28:22 Say, 'The Lord and King says, "" ' ""Sidon, I am against your people. I will gain glory for myself inside your city walls. I will punish your people. I will show that I am holy among them. Then they will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel28:23 I will send a plague on them. I will make blood flow in your streets. Those who are killed will fall inside you. Swords will strike your people on every side. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel28:24  ' The people of Israel will no longer have neighbors who hate them. Those neighbors will not be like sharp and painful thorns anymore. Then Israel will know that I am the Lord and King. ' 
Ezekiel28:25 The Lord and King says, ""I will gather the people of Israel together from the nations where they have been scattered. I will show that I am holy among them. I will let the nations see it. Then Israel will live in their own land. I gave it to my servant Jacob." 
Ezekiel28:26 My people will live there in safety. They will build houses. They will plant vineyards. They will live in safety. I will punish all of their neighbors who told lies about them. Then Israel will know that I am the Lord their God. 
Ezekiel29:1 It was the tenth year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the 12th day of the tenth month, a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel29:2 Son of man, turn your attention to Pharaoh Hophra. He is king of Egypt. Prophesy against him and the whole land of Egypt." 
Ezekiel29:3 Tell him, 'The Lord and King says, "" ' ""Pharaoh Hophra, I am against you. King of Egypt, you are like a huge monster lying among your streams. You say, 'The Nile River belongs to me. I made it for myself.'" 
Ezekiel29:4 But I will put hooks in your jaws. I will make the fish in your streams stick to your scales. I will pull you out from among your streams. All of the fish will stick to your scales. 
Ezekiel29:5 I will leave you out in the desert. All of the fish in your streams will be there with you. You will fall down in an open field. You will not be picked up. I will feed you to the wild animals and to the birds of the air. 
Ezekiel29:6 Then everyone who lives in Egypt will know that I am the Lord.  ' You have been like a walking stick made out of a papyrus stem. The people of Israel tried to lean on you. 
Ezekiel29:7 They took hold of you. But you broke under their weight. You tore their shoulders open. They leaned on you. But you snapped in two. And their backs were broken. ' 
Ezekiel29:8 So the Lord and King says, ""I will send Nebuchadnezzar's sword against you. He will kill your people and their animals." 
Ezekiel29:9 Egypt will become a dry and empty desert. Then your people will know that I am the Lord. You said, 'The Nile River belongs to me. I made it for myself.'" 
Ezekiel29:10 So I am against you and your streams. I will destroy the land of Egypt. I will turn it into a dry and empty desert from Migdol all the way to Aswan. I will destroy everything as far as the border of Cush. 
Ezekiel29:11 No people or animals will travel through Egypt. No one will even live there for 40 years. 
Ezekiel29:12 Egypt will be more empty than any other land. Its destroyed cities will lie empty for 40 years. I will scatter the people of Egypt among the nations. I will send them to other countries. 
Ezekiel29:13 But the Lord and King says, ""At the end of 40 years I will gather the Egyptians together from the nations where they were scattered." 
Ezekiel29:14 I will bring them back from where they were taken as prisoners. I will return them to Upper Egypt. That is where they came from. There they will be an unimportant kingdom. 
Ezekiel29:15 Egypt will be the least important kingdom of all. It will never place itself above the other nations again. I will make it very weak. Then it will never again rule over the nations. 
Ezekiel29:16 The people of Israel will no longer trust in Egypt. Instead, Egypt will remind them of how they sinned when they turned to it for help. Then they will know that I am the Lord and King.""" 
Ezekiel29:17 It was the 27th year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the first day of the first month, a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel29:18 Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, drove his army in a hard military campaign against Tyre. Their helmets rubbed their heads bare. The heavy loads they carried made their shoulders raw. But he and his army did not gain anything from the campaign he led against Tyre." 
Ezekiel29:19 So I am going to give Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia. He will carry off its wealth. He will take away anything else you have. He will give it to his army." 
Ezekiel29:20 I have given Egypt to him as a reward for his efforts. After all, he and his army attacked Egypt because I told them to,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel29:21 When Nebuchadnezzar wins the battle over Egypt, I will make the people of Israel strong again. Ezekiel, I will open your mouth. And you will be able to speak to them. Then they will know that I am the Lord.""" 
Ezekiel30:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel30:2 Son of man, prophesy. Say, 'The Lord and King says, "" ' ""Cry out, 'A terrible day is coming!'" 
Ezekiel30:3 The day is near. The day of the Lord is coming. It will be a cloudy day. The nations have been sentenced to die. 
Ezekiel30:4 I will send Nebuchadnezzar's sword against Egypt. Cush will suffer terribly. Many will die in Egypt. Then its wealth will be carried away. Its foundations will be torn down. 
Ezekiel30:5 The people of Cush, Put, Lydia, Libya and the whole land of Arabia will be killed with swords. So will the Jews who live in Egypt. They went there from the covenant land of Israel. And the Egyptians will die too."" ' """ 
Ezekiel30:6 The Lord says, ""Those who were going to help Egypt will die. The strength Egypt was so proud of will fail. Its people will be killed with swords from Migdol all the way to Aswan,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel30:7 Egypt will be more empty than any other land. Its cities will be completely destroyed. 
Ezekiel30:8 I will set Egypt on fire. All those who came to help it will be crushed. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel30:9 At that time I will send messengers out in ships. They will terrify the people of Cush who are so contented. Cush will suffer greatly when Egypt falls. And you can be sure it will fall. 
Ezekiel30:10 The Lord and King says, ""I will put an end to the huge armies of Egypt. I will use Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylonia, to do it." 
Ezekiel30:11 He and his armies will attack the land and destroy it. They will not show its people any pity at all. They will use their swords against Egypt. They will fill the land with dead bodies. 
Ezekiel30:12 I will dry up the streams of the Nile River. I will sell the land to evil men. I will use the powerful hands of strangers to destroy the land and everything in it. I have spoken. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel30:13 The Lord and King says, ""I will destroy the statues of Egypt's gods. I will put an end to the gods the people in Memphis worship. Egypt will not have princes anymore. I will spread fear all through the land." 
Ezekiel30:14 I will completely destroy Upper Egypt. I will set Zoan on fire. I will punish Thebes. 
Ezekiel30:15 I will pour out my burning anger on Pelusium. It is a fort in eastern Egypt. I will cut off the huge army of Thebes. 
Ezekiel30:16 I will set Egypt on fire. Pelusium will groan with terrible pain. Thebes will be ripped apart. Memphis will suffer greatly because of everything that happens. 
Ezekiel30:17 The young men of Heliopolis and Bubastis will be killed with swords. Their people will be taken away as prisoners. 
Ezekiel30:18 I will break Egypt's power over other lands. That will be a dark day for Tahpanhes. There the strength Egypt was so proud of will come to an end. Egypt will be covered with clouds. The people in its villages will be taken away as prisoners. 
Ezekiel30:19 So I will punish Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel30:20 It was the 11th year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the seventh day of the first month, a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel30:21 Son of man, I have broken the powerful arm of Pharaoh Hophra, the king of Egypt. No bandages have been put on his arm to heal it. It has not been put in a cast. So his arm will not be strong enough to use a sword." 
Ezekiel30:22 I am against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. I will break both of his arms. I will break his healthy arm and his broken one. His sword will fall from his hand." 
Ezekiel30:23 I will scatter the people of Egypt among the nations. I will send them to other countries. 
Ezekiel30:24 I will make the arms of the king of Babylonia stronger. I will put my sword in his hand. But I will break the arms of Pharaoh. And he will groan in front of Nebuchadnezzar. He will cry out like someone dying from his wounds. 
Ezekiel30:25 I will make the arms of the king of Babylonia stronger. But the arms of Pharaoh will not be able to help Egypt. I will put my sword in Nebuchadnezzar's hand. He will get ready to use it against Egypt. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel30:26 I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations. I will send them to other countries. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel31:1 It was the 11th year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the first day of the third month, a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel31:2 Son of man, speak to Pharaoh Hophra, the king of Egypt. Also speak to his huge army. Tell him, "" 'Who can be compared with your majesty?" 
Ezekiel31:3 Think about what happened to Assyria. Once it was like a cedar tree in Lebanon. It had beautiful branches that provided shade for the forest. It grew very high. Its top was above all of the leaves. 
Ezekiel31:4 The waters fed it. Deep springs made it grow tall. Their streams flowed all around its base. They made their way to all of the trees in the fields. 
Ezekiel31:5 So it grew higher than any other tree in the fields. It grew more limbs. Its branches grew long. They spread because they had plenty of water. 
Ezekiel31:6 All of the birds of the air made their nests in its limbs. All of the wild animals had their babies under its branches. All of the great nations lived in its shade. 
Ezekiel31:7 Its spreading branches made it majestic and beautiful. Its roots went down deep to where there was plenty of water. 
Ezekiel31:8 The cedar trees in my garden were no match for it. The pine trees could not equal its limbs. The plane trees could not compare with its branches. No tree in my garden could match its beauty. 
Ezekiel31:9 I gave it many branches. They made it beautiful. All of the trees in my Garden of Eden were jealous of it.' 
Ezekiel31:10 So the Lord and King says, ""The cedar tree grew very high. Its top was above all of the leaves. It was proud of how tall it was." 
Ezekiel31:11 So I handed it over to the Babylonian ruler of the nations. I wanted him to punish it because it was so evil. I decided to get rid of it. 
Ezekiel31:12 The Babylonians cut it down and left it there. They did not show it any pity at all. Some of its branches fell on the mountains. Others fell in all of the valleys. They lay broken in all of the stream beds in the land. All of the nations on earth came out from under its shade. And they went on their way. 
Ezekiel31:13 All of the birds of the air settled on the fallen tree. All of the wild animals moved among its branches. 
Ezekiel31:14 So trees that receive plenty of water must never grow so high that it makes them proud. Their tops must never be above the rest of the leaves. No other trees that receive a lot of water must ever grow that high. They are appointed to die and go down into the earth below. They will join the other nations that go down into the grave. 
Ezekiel31:15 The Lord and King says, ""Assyria was like a cedar tree. But I brought it down to the grave. On that day I dried up the deep springs of water and covered them. I held its streams back. I shut off its rich supply of water. Because of that, Lebanon was dressed in darkness as if it were clothes. All of the trees in the fields dried up." 
Ezekiel31:16 I brought the cedar tree down to the grave. It joined the other nations that go down there. I made the nations on earth shake because of the sound of its fall. Then all of the trees of Eden were comforted in the earth below. That included the finest and best trees in Lebanon. And it included all the trees that received plenty of water. 
Ezekiel31:17 Others also went down into the grave along with it. That included those that lived in its shade. And it included those nations that were going to help it. They joined those who had been killed with swords. 
Ezekiel31:18 Which one of the trees of Eden can be compared with you? What tree is as glorious and majestic as you are? But you too will be brought down to the earth below. There you will join the trees of Eden. You will lie down with those who have not been circumcised. You will be among those who were killed with swords. That is what will happen to Pharaoh and his huge armies,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel32:1 It was the 12th year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. On the first day of the 12th month, a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel32:2 Son of man, sing a song of sadness about Pharaoh Hophra, the king of Egypt. Tell him, "" 'You are like a lion among the nations. You are like a monster in the sea. You move around wildly in your rivers. You churn the water with your feet. You make the streams muddy.' """ 
Ezekiel32:3 The Lord and King says, ""I will use a large crowd of people to throw my net over you. They will pull you up in it." 
Ezekiel32:4 Then I will throw you on the land. I will toss you into an open field. I will let all of the birds of the air settle on you. I will let all of the wild animals eat you up. 
Ezekiel32:5 I will scatter the parts of your body all over the mountains. I will fill the valleys with your remains. 
Ezekiel32:6 I will soak the land with your blood. It will flow all the way to the mountains. The valleys will be filled with the parts of your body. 
Ezekiel32:7 When I wipe you out, I will put a cover over the heavens. I will darken the stars. I will cover the sun with a cloud. The moon will stop shining." 
Ezekiel32:8 I will darken all of the bright lights in the sky above you. I will bring darkness over your land,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel32:9 The hearts of many people will be troubled. That is because I will destroy you among the nations. You had never known anything about those lands before. 
Ezekiel32:10 Many nations will be shocked when they see what has happened to you. Their kings will tremble with fear when they find out about it. I will get ready to use Nebuchadnezzar as my sword against them. On the day you fall from power, each of the kings will tremble with fear. Each will be afraid he is the next to die.""" 
Ezekiel32:11 The Lord and King says, ""I will send against you the sword of the king of Babylonia." 
Ezekiel32:12 I will destroy your huge army. They will be killed with the swords of Babylonia's mighty soldiers. The soldiers will not show them any pity. They will bring Egypt down in all of its pride. Its huge armies will be thrown down. 
Ezekiel32:13 I will destroy all of its cattle from the places where they have plenty of water. Human feet will never stir the water up again. The hoofs of cattle will not make it muddy anymore. 
Ezekiel32:14 I will let the waters of Egypt settle. I will make its streams flow like olive oil,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel32:15 I will turn Egypt into an empty land. I will strip away everything in it. I will strike down everyone who lives there. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel32:16 That is the song of sadness people will sing about Egypt. Women from other nations will sing it. They will sob over Egypt and its huge armies,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel32:17 It was the 15th day of a month near the end of the 12th year since King Jehoiachin had been brought to Babylon as a prisoner. A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel32:18 Son of man, sob over the huge army of Egypt. Tell the Egyptians they will go down into the earth below. The women singers from the other mighty nations will go down into the grave along with them and others." 
Ezekiel32:19 Tell them, 'Are you any better than others? Since you are not, go down there. Lie down with those who have not been circumcised.'" 
Ezekiel32:20 They will fall dead among those who were killed with swords. Nebuchadnezzar is ready to use his sword against them. Let Egypt be dragged off together with its huge armies. 
Ezekiel32:21 The mighty leaders who are already in the grave will talk about Egypt. They will also speak about the nations that were going to help it. They will say, 'They have come down here. They are lying down with those who had not been circumcised. They are here with those who were killed with swords.'" 
Ezekiel32:22 Assyria is there with its whole army. Its king is surrounded by the graves of all of its people who were killed with swords. 
Ezekiel32:23 Their graves are deep down in the pit. Assyria's army lies around the grave of its king. All those who spread terror while they were alive are now dead. They were killed with swords. 
Ezekiel32:24 Elam is also there. Its huge armies lie around the grave of its king. All those who spread terror while they were alive are now dead. They were killed with swords. They had not been circumcised. They went down into the earth below. Their shame is like the shame of others who go down into the grave. 
Ezekiel32:25 A bed is made for Elam's king among the dead. His huge armies lie around his grave. They had not been circumcised. They were killed with swords. They had spread terror while they were alive. So now their shame is like the shame of others who go down into the grave. They lie down among the dead. 
Ezekiel32:26 Meshech and Tubal are also there. Their huge armies lie around the graves of their kings. They had not been circumcised. They had spread their terror while they were alive. So they were killed with swords. 
Ezekiel32:27 They lie down with the other dead soldiers who had not been circumcised. They and their weapons had gone down into the grave. Their swords had been placed under their heads. They had spread their terror while they were alive. But now the shame of their sin covers their bones. 
Ezekiel32:28 Pharaoh Hophra, you too will be broken. You will lie down among those who had not been circumcised. You will be there with those who were killed with swords." 
Ezekiel32:29 Edom is also there. So are its kings and all of its princes. In spite of their power, they lie down with those who were killed with swords. They lie down with those who had not been circumcised. They are there with others who went down into the grave." 
Ezekiel32:30 All of the princes of the north are there too. So are all of the people of Sidon. They went down into the grave in dishonor. While they were alive, they used their power to spread terror. They had never been circumcised. But now they lie down there with those who were killed with swords. Their shame is like the shame of others who go down into the grave." 
Ezekiel32:31 Pharaoh and his whole army will see all of them. That will comfort him in spite of the fact that his huge armies were killed with swords,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel32:32 I let Pharaoh spread terror while he was alive. But now he and his huge armies will be buried with those who had not been circumcised. They will lie down there with those who were killed with swords,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel33:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel33:2 Son of man, speak to the people of your own country. Tell them, 'Suppose I send enemies against a land. And its people choose one of their men to stand guard." 
Ezekiel33:3 He sees the enemies coming against the land. He blows a trumpet to warn the people. 
Ezekiel33:4  'Someone hears the trumpet. But he does not pay any attention to the warning. The enemies come and kill him. Then what happens to him will be his own fault. 
Ezekiel33:5 He heard the sound of the trumpet. But he did not pay any attention to the warning. So what happened to him was his own fault. If he had paid attention, he would have saved himself." 
Ezekiel33:6  'But suppose the guard sees the enemies coming. And he does not blow the trumpet to warn the people. The enemies come and kill one of them. Then his life has been taken away from him because he sinned. But I will hold the guard accountable for his death.' 
Ezekiel33:7 Son of man, I have appointed you as a prophet to warn the people of Israel. So listen to my message. Give them a warning from me." 
Ezekiel33:8 Suppose I say to a sinful person, 'You can be sure that you will die.' And suppose you do not try to get him to change his ways. Then he will die because he has sinned. And I will hold you accountable for his death." 
Ezekiel33:9 But suppose you do warn that sinful person. You tell him to change his ways. But he does not do it. Then he will die because he has sinned. But you will have saved yourself. 
Ezekiel33:10 Son of man, speak to the people of Israel. Tell them, 'You are saying, ""Our sins and the wrong things we have done weigh us down. We are wasting away because we have sinned so much. So how can we live?"" '" 
Ezekiel33:11 Tell them, 'When sinful people die, it does not give me any joy. But when they turn away from their sins and live, that makes me very happy. And that is just as sure as I am alive,' announces the Lord and King. 'So turn away from your sins! Change your evil ways! Why should you die, people of Israel?'" 
Ezekiel33:12 Son of man, speak to the people of your own country. Tell them, 'The right things a godly person does will not save him when he does not obey the Lord. The wrong things a sinful person does will not destroy him when he turns away from them. If a godly person sins, he will not be allowed to live just because he used to do what is right.'" 
Ezekiel33:13 Suppose I tell someone who is godly that he will live. And he trusts in the fact that he used to do what was right. But now he does what is evil. Then I will not remember any of the right things he has done. He will die because he has done so many evil things. 
Ezekiel33:14 Suppose I say to a sinful person, 'You can be sure you will die.' And then he turns away from his sin. He does what is fair and right." 
Ezekiel33:15 He gives back what he took as security for a loan. He returns what he has stolen. He follows my rules that give life. He does not do what is evil. Then you can be sure he will live. He will not die. 
Ezekiel33:16 None of the sins he has committed will be held against him. He has done what is fair and right. So you can be sure he will live. 
Ezekiel33:17 In spite of that, your people say, 'What the Lord does isn't fair.' But it is what you do that is not fair." 
Ezekiel33:18 Suppose someone who is godly stops doing what is right. And he does what is evil. Then he will die because of it. 
Ezekiel33:19 But suppose a sinful person turns away from the evil things he has done. And he does what is fair and right. Then he will live by doing that. 
Ezekiel33:20 In spite of that, you people of Israel say, 'What the Lord does isn't fair.' But I will judge each of you based on how you have lived.""" 
Ezekiel33:21 It was the 12th year since we had been brought to Babylonia as prisoners. On the fifth day of the tenth month, a man who had escaped from Jerusalem came to bring me a report. He said, ""The city has fallen!""" 
Ezekiel33:22 The evening before the man arrived, the Lord put his strong hand on me. He opened my mouth before the man came to me in the morning. So my mouth was opened. I was no longer silent." 
Ezekiel33:23 Then a message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel33:24 Son of man, the people who live in those broken-down buildings in Israel are saying, 'Abraham was only one man. But he owned the land. We are many people. The land must certainly belong to us.'" 
Ezekiel33:25 So tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""You eat meat that still has blood in it. You worship your gods. You commit murder. So should you still possess the land?" 
Ezekiel33:26 You depend on your swords. You do things I hate. Each one of you has sex with your neighbor's wife. So should you still possess the land? ' 
Ezekiel33:27 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""The people who are left in those broken-down buildings will be killed with swords. Wild animals will eat up those who are out in the country. Those who are in caves and other safe places will die of a plague. And that is just as sure as I am alive." 
Ezekiel33:28  ' I will turn the land into a dry and empty desert. The strength Jerusalem is so proud of will come to an end. The mountains of Israel will be deserted. No one will travel across them. 
Ezekiel33:29 So I will turn the land into a dry and empty desert. I will punish my people because of all of the evil things they have done. I hate those things. They will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel33:30 Son of man, your people are talking about you. They are getting together by the walls of their houses and at their doors. They are saying to one another, 'Come. Listen to the Lord's message.'" 
Ezekiel33:31 My people come to you, just as they usually do. They sit in front of you. They listen to what you say. But they do not put it into practice. With their mouths they claim to be faithful to me. But in their hearts they want what belongs to others. They try to get rich by cheating them." 
Ezekiel33:32 You are nothing more to them than someone who sings love songs. They say you have a beautiful voice. They think you play an instrument well. They listen to what you say. But they do not put it into practice. 
Ezekiel33:33 Everything I have told you will come true. You can be sure of it. Then the people will know that a prophet has been among them. 
Ezekiel34:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel34:2 Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""How terrible it will be for you shepherds of Israel! You only take care of yourselves. You should take good care of your flocks." 
Ezekiel34:3 Instead, you eat the butter. You dress yourselves with the wool. You kill the finest animals. But you do not take care of your flocks." 
Ezekiel34:4 You have not made the weak ones in the flock stronger. You have not healed the sick. You have not bandaged those that are hurt. You have not brought back those that have wandered away. You have not searched for the lost. When you ruled over them, you were mean to them. You treated them badly." 
Ezekiel34:5  ' So they were scattered because they did not have a shepherd. They became food for all of the wild animals. 
Ezekiel34:6 My sheep wandered all over the mountains and high hills. They were scattered over the whole earth. No one searched for them. No one looked for them. 
Ezekiel34:7  'Shepherds, listen to the Lord's message." 
Ezekiel34:8 He says, ""My flock does not have a shepherd. Many of my sheep have been stolen. They have become food for all of the wild animals. My shepherds did not care for my sheep. They did not even search for them. Instead, they only took care of themselves. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel34:9  'Shepherds, listen to the Lord's message." 
Ezekiel34:10 The Lord and King says, ""I am against the shepherds. I will hold them accountable for my flock. I will stop them from taking care of the flock. Then they will not be able to feed themselves anymore. I will save my flock from their mouths. My sheep will no longer be food for them."" ' """ 
Ezekiel34:11 The Lord and King says, ""I myself will search for my sheep. I will look after them." 
Ezekiel34:12 A shepherd looks after his scattered flock when he is with them. And I will look after my sheep. I will save them from all of the places where they were scattered on a dark and cloudy day. 
Ezekiel34:13 I will bring them out from among the nations. I will gather them together from other countries. I will bring them into their own land. They will eat grass on the mountains of Israel. I will also let them eat in the valleys and in all of the places in the land where people live. 
Ezekiel34:14 I will take care of them in the best grasslands. They will eat grass on the high mountains of Israel. There they will lie down in the finest grasslands. They will eat grass in the best places on Israel's mountains. 
Ezekiel34:15 I myself will take care of my sheep. I will let them lie down in safety,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel34:16 I will search for the lost. I will bring back those that have wandered away. I will bandage the ones that are hurt. I will make the weak ones stronger. But I will destroy those that are fat and strong. I will take good care of my sheep. I will treat them fairly. 
Ezekiel34:17 The Lord and King says, ""You are my flock. I will judge between one sheep and another. I will judge between rams and goats." 
Ezekiel34:18 You already eat in the best grasslands. Must you also stomp all over the other fields? You already drink clear water. Must you also make the rest of the water muddy with your feet? 
Ezekiel34:19 Must my flock have to eat the grass you have stomped on? Must they drink the water you have made muddy? 
Ezekiel34:20 So the Lord and King speaks to them. He says, ""I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the skinny sheep." 
Ezekiel34:21 You push the other sheep around with your hips and shoulders. You use your horns to butt all of the weak sheep. Finally, you drive them away." 
Ezekiel34:22 But I will save my sheep. They will not be carried off anymore. I will judge between one sheep and another. 
Ezekiel34:23 I will place one shepherd over them. He will belong to the family line of my servant David. He will take good care of them. He will look after them. He will be their shepherd. 
Ezekiel34:24 I am the Lord. I will be their God. And my servant from David's line will be prince among them. I have spoken. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel34:25 I will make a covenant with them. It promises to give them peace. I will get rid of the wild animals in the land. Then my sheep can live safely in the desert. They can sleep in the forests. 
Ezekiel34:26 I will bless them. I will also bless the places surrounding my holy mountain of Zion. I will send down rain at the right time. There will be showers of blessing. 
Ezekiel34:27 The trees in the fields will bear their fruit. And the ground will produce its crops. The people will be secure in their land. I will break the chains that hold them. I will save them from the powerful hands of those who made them slaves. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel34:28 The nations will not carry them off anymore. Wild animals will no longer eat them up. They will live in safety. And no one will make them afraid. 
Ezekiel34:29 I will give them a land that is famous for its crops. They will never be hungry there again. The nations will not make fun of them anymore. 
Ezekiel34:30 Then they will know that I am with them. I am the Lord their God. And they will know that they are my people Israel,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel34:31 You are the sheep belonging to my flock. You are my people. And I am your God,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel35:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel35:2 Son of man, turn your attention to Mount Seir. Prophesy against it." 
Ezekiel35:3 Tell it, 'The Lord and King says, ""Mount Seir, I am against you. I will reach out my powerful hand against you. I will turn you into a dry and empty desert." 
Ezekiel35:4 I will destroy your towns. Your land will become empty. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel35:5  ' People of Edom, you have been Israel's enemies for a long time. You let many Israelites be killed with swords when they were in great trouble. At that time I used Nebuchadnezzar to punish them and destroy them completely." 
Ezekiel35:6 Now I will hand you over to murderers. They will hunt you down. You murdered others. So murderers will chase you. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel35:7  ' I will turn Mount Seir into a dry and empty desert. No one will be able to go anywhere or do anything there. 
Ezekiel35:8 I will fill your mountains with dead bodies. Some of those who are killed with swords will fall down dead on your hills. Others will die in your valleys and in all of your canyons. 
Ezekiel35:9 I will make your land empty forever. No one will live in your towns. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel35:10  ' You said, 'The nations of Israel and Judah will belong to us. We will take them over.' You said that, even though I was there. I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel35:11 You were full of anger, jealousy and hatred toward my people. So I will punish you. When I judge you, they will know that I am the Lord. And that is just as sure as I am alive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel35:12  ' You will know that I have heard all of the terrible things you said about those who live in the mountains of Israel. You made fun of them. You said, 'They have been destroyed. They've been handed over to us. Let's wipe them out.'" 
Ezekiel35:13 You bragged that you were better than I am. You spoke against me. You did not hold anything back. But I heard it. ' 
Ezekiel35:14 The Lord and King says, ""The whole earth will be glad. But I will make your land empty." 
Ezekiel35:15 You were happy when the land of Israel became empty. So I will treat you in the same way. Mount Seir, you will be empty. So will the whole land of Edom. Then you will know that I am the Lord.""" 
Ezekiel36:1 Son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel. Tell them, 'Mountains of Israel, listen to the Lord's message." 
Ezekiel36:2 The Lord and King says, ""Your enemies made fun of you. They bragged, 'The hills you lived in for a long time belong to us now.' "" '" 
Ezekiel36:3 Ezekiel, prophesy. Say, 'The Lord and King says, ""Your enemies destroyed you. They hunted you down from every side. So the rest of the nations took over your land. People talked about you. They told lies about you."" ' """ 
Ezekiel36:4 Mountains of Israel, listen to the message of the Lord and King. He speaks to you mountains, hills, canyons and valleys. He speaks to you destroyed cities and deserted towns. The rest of the nations around you took everything of value away from you. They made fun of you." 
Ezekiel36:5 So the Lord and King says, ""My anger burns against those nations. I have spoken against them and the whole land of Edom. They were very happy when they took over my land. Deep down inside them they hated Israel. They wanted to take its grasslands." 
Ezekiel36:6 Ezekiel, prophesy about the land of Israel. Speak to the mountains, hills, canyons and valleys. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""My jealous anger burns against the nations. They have laughed at you.""" 
Ezekiel36:7 So the Lord and King says, ""I raise my hand and take an oath. I promise that the nations around you will also be laughed at." 
Ezekiel36:8  ' Mountains of Israel, you will produce branches and bear fruit for my people Israel. They will come home soon." 
Ezekiel36:9 I am concerned about you. I will look on you with favor. Farmers will plow your ground. They will plant seeds in it. 
Ezekiel36:10  ' I will multiply the number of people who live in Israel. The towns will no longer be empty. Their broken-down houses will be rebuilt. 
Ezekiel36:11 I will increase the number of your people and animals. They will have many babies. I will settle people in your towns, just as I did in the past. I will help you succeed more than ever before. Then you will know that I am the Lord." 
Ezekiel36:12  ' I will let my people Israel walk there again. They will possess you. They will receive you as their own. You will never take their children away from them again. ' 
Ezekiel36:13 The Lord and King says, ""People say to you mountains, 'You destroy people. You let your nation's children be taken away.'" 
Ezekiel36:14 But I will not let you destroy people anymore. I will no longer let your nation's children be taken away,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel36:15 You will not have to listen to the nations laughing at you anymore. People will no longer make fun of you. You will not let your nation fall,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel36:16 Another message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel36:17 Son of man, the people of Israel used to live in their own land. But they polluted it because of how they acted and the way they lived. To me they were 'unclean' like a woman who was having her monthly period." 
Ezekiel36:18 They spilled people's blood in the land. They polluted the land by worshiping other gods. So I poured out my burning anger on them. 
Ezekiel36:19 I scattered them among the nations. I sent them to other countries. I judged them based on how they acted and the way they lived. 
Ezekiel36:20 They treated my name as if it were not holy. They did it everywhere they went among the nations. People said about them, 'They are the Lord's people. But they were forced to leave his land.'" 
Ezekiel36:21 I was concerned about my holy name. The people of Israel treated it as if it were not holy. They did it everywhere they went among the nations. 
Ezekiel36:22 But tell the people of Israel, 'The Lord and King speaks. He says, ""People of Israel, I will not take action for your benefit. Instead, I will act for the honor of my holy name. You have treated it as if it were not holy. You did it everywhere you went among the nations." 
Ezekiel36:23 But I will show everyone how holy my great name is. You have treated it as if it were not holy. So I will use you to show the nations how holy I am. Then they will know that I am the Lord,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel36:24  ' I will take you out of the nations. I will gather you together from all of the countries. I will bring you back into your own land. 
Ezekiel36:25  ' I will sprinkle pure water on you. Then you will be 'clean.' I will make you completely pure and clean. I will take all of the statues of your gods away from you. 
Ezekiel36:26 I will give you new hearts. I will give you a new spirit that is faithful to me. I will remove your stubborn hearts from you. I will give you hearts that obey me. 
Ezekiel36:27  ' I will put my Spirit in you. I will move you to follow my rules. I want you to be careful to keep my laws. 
Ezekiel36:28 You will live in the land I gave your people long ago. You will be my people. And I will be your God. 
Ezekiel36:29  ' I will save you from all of your 'uncleanness.' I will give you plenty of grain. You will have more than enough. So you will never be hungry again. 
Ezekiel36:30 I will multiply the fruit on your trees. I will increase the crops in your fields. Then the nations will no longer make fun of you because you are hungry. 
Ezekiel36:31  ' You will remember your evil ways and the sinful things you have done. You will hate yourselves because you have sinned so much. I also hate your evil practices. 
Ezekiel36:32 I want you to know that I am not doing those things for your benefit,"" announces the Lord and King. ""People of Israel, you should be ashamed of yourselves! Your conduct has brought dishonor to you."" ' """ 
Ezekiel36:33 The Lord and King says, ""I will make you pure from all of your sins. On that day I will settle you in your towns again. Your broken-down houses will be rebuilt." 
Ezekiel36:34 The dry and empty land will be farmed again. Everyone who passes through it will see that it is no longer empty. 
Ezekiel36:35 They will say, 'This land was completely destroyed. But now it's like the Garden of Eden. The cities were full of broken-down buildings. They were destroyed and empty. But now they have high walls around them. And people live in them.'" 
Ezekiel36:36 Then the nations that remain around you will know that I have rebuilt what was once destroyed. I have planted again the fields that were once empty. I have spoken. And I will do it. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel36:37 The Lord and King says, ""Once again I will answer the prayers of the people of Israel. Here is what I will do for them. I will multiply them as if they were sheep." 
Ezekiel36:38 Large flocks of animals are sacrificed at Jerusalem during the appointed feasts there. In the same way, the destroyed cities will be filled with flocks of people. Then they will know that I am the Lord.""" 
Ezekiel37:1 The Lord put his strong hand on me. His Spirit brought me away from my home. He put me down in the middle of a valley. It was full of bones. 
Ezekiel37:2 He led me back and forth among them. I saw a huge number of bones in the valley. The bones were very dry. 
Ezekiel37:3 The Lord asked me, ""Son of man, can these bones live?"" I said, ""Lord and King, you are the only one who knows.""" 
Ezekiel37:4 Then he said to me, ""Prophesy to these bones. Tell them, 'Dry bones, listen to the Lord's message." 
Ezekiel37:5 The Lord and King speaks to you. He says, ""I will put breath in you. Then you will come to life again." 
Ezekiel37:6 I will attach tendons to you. I will put flesh on you. I will cover you with skin. So I will put breath in you. And you will come to life again. Then you will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel37:7 So I prophesied just as the Lord commanded me to. As I was prophesying, I heard a noise. It was a rattling sound. The bones came together. One bone connected itself to another." 
Ezekiel37:8 I saw tendons and flesh appear on them. Skin covered them. But there was no breath in them. 
Ezekiel37:9 Then the Lord said to me, ""Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man. Tell it, 'The Lord and King says, ""Breath, come from all four directions. Go into these dead bodies. Then they can live."" ' """ 
Ezekiel37:10 So I prophesied just as he commanded me to. And the breath entered them. Then they came to life again. They stood up on their feet. They were like a huge army. 
Ezekiel37:11 Then the Lord said to me, ""Son of man, these bones stand for all of the people of Israel. The people say, 'Our bones are dried up. We've lost all hope. We are cut off.'" 
Ezekiel37:12 So prophesy. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""My people, I am going to open up your graves. I am going to bring you out of them. I will take you back to the land of Israel." 
Ezekiel37:13 So I will open up your graves and bring you out of them. Then you will know that I am the Lord. You are my people. 
Ezekiel37:14 I will put my Spirit in you. And you will live again. I will settle you in your own land. Then you will know that I have spoken. I have done it,"" announces the Lord.' """ 
Ezekiel37:15 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel37:16 Son of man, get a stick of wood. Write on it, 'Belonging to the tribe of Judah and the Israelites who are connected with it.' Then get another stick. Write on it, 'Ephraim's stick. Belonging to the tribes of Joseph and all of the Israelites connected with them.'" 
Ezekiel37:17 Join them together into one stick in your hand. 
Ezekiel37:18 The people of your own country will ask you, 'What do you mean by this?'" 
Ezekiel37:19 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""I am going to get the stick of Joseph and the Israelites connected with it. That stick is in Ephraim's hand. I am going to join it to Judah's stick. They will become a single stick of wood in my hand."" '" 
Ezekiel37:20 Show them the sticks you wrote on. 
Ezekiel37:21 Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""I will take the Israelites out of the nations where they have gone. I will gather them together from all around. I will bring them back to their own land." 
Ezekiel37:22 There I will make them one nation. They will live on the mountains of Israel. All of them will have one king. They will never be two nations again. They will never again be separated into two kingdoms. 
Ezekiel37:23  ' They will no longer pollute themselves by worshiping any of their evil gods. They will not do wrong things anymore. They always turn away from me. But I will save them from that sin. I will make them pure and clean. They will be my people. And I will be their God. 
Ezekiel37:24  ' A man who belongs to the family line of my servant David will be their king. All of them will have one shepherd. They will follow my laws. And they will be careful to keep my rules. 
Ezekiel37:25 They will live in the land I gave to my servant Jacob. That is where your people lived long ago. They, their children, their children's children, and their children after them will live there forever. And my servant from David's line will be their prince forever." 
Ezekiel37:26  ' I will make a covenant with them. It promises to give them peace. The covenant will last forever. I will make them my people. And I will increase their numbers. I will put my temple among them forever. 
Ezekiel37:27 I will live with them. I will be their God. And they will be my people. 
Ezekiel37:28 My temple will be among them forever. Then the nations will know that I make Israel holy. I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel38:1 A message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Ezekiel38:2 Son of man, turn your attention to Gog. He is from the land of Magog. He is the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal. Prophesy against him." 
Ezekiel38:3 Tell him, 'The Lord and King says, ""Gog, I am against you. You are the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal." 
Ezekiel38:4 But I will turn you around. I will put hooks in your jaws. I will bring you out of your land along with your whole army. Your horses will come with you. Your horsemen will be completely armed. Your huge army will carry large and small shields. All of them will be ready to use their swords. 
Ezekiel38:5  ' The men of Persia, Cush and Put will march out with them. All of them will have shields and helmets." 
Ezekiel38:6 Gomer and all of its troops will be there too. Beth Togarmah from the far north will also come with all of its troops. Many nations will help you. 
Ezekiel38:7  ' Get ready. Be prepared. Take command of the huge armies that are gathered around you. 
Ezekiel38:8 After many years you will be called together to fight. Later, you will march into a land that has not had war for a while. Its people were gathered together from many nations. They came to the mountains of Israel. No one had lived in those mountains for a long time. So the people had been brought back from other nations. Now all of the people live in safety." 
Ezekiel38:9 You, all of your troops and the many nations with you will march up to attack them. All of you will advance like a storm. You will be like a cloud covering their land.""" 
Ezekiel38:10  'The Lord and King says, ""At that time some ideas will come to you. You will make evil plans." 
Ezekiel38:11 You will say, 'I will march out against a land whose villages don't have walls around them. I'll attack those peaceful people. I'll do it when they aren't expecting it. None of their villages has walls or gates with heavy metal bars on them." 
Ezekiel38:12  '  'I will rob those people. I'll steal everything they have. Then I'll turn my attention to the destroyed houses where people are living again. They have returned there from other nations. Now they are rich. They have plenty of livestock and all kinds of goods. They are living in Israel. It is the center of the earth.' 
Ezekiel38:13  ' The people of Sheba and Dedan will speak to you. So will the traders of Tarshish and all of its villages. They will say, 'Have you come to rob us? Have you gathered your huge army together to steal our silver and gold? Are you going to take our livestock and goods away from us? Do you plan to carry off everything we have?' "" '" 
Ezekiel38:14 Son of man, prophesy. Tell Gog, 'The Lord and King says, ""A time is coming when my people Israel will be living in safety. You will see that it is a good time to attack them." 
Ezekiel38:15 So you will come from your place in the far north. Many nations will join you. All of their men will be riding on horses. You will have a huge and mighty army. 
Ezekiel38:16 They will advance against my people Israel. They will be like a cloud covering their land. Gog, in days to come I will bring you against my land. Then the nations will know me. I will use you to show them how holy I am.""" 
Ezekiel38:17  'The Lord and King says to Gog, ""In the past I spoke about you through my servants, the prophets of Israel. At that time they prophesied for years that I would bring you against them." 
Ezekiel38:18 Here is what will happen in days to come. You will attack the land of Israel. That will stir up my hot anger,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel38:19  ' At that time my burning anger will blaze out at you. There will be a great earthquake in the land of Israel. 
Ezekiel38:20 The fish in the sea, the birds of the air and the wild animals will tremble with fear because of what I will do. So will every creature that moves along the ground. And so will all of the people on earth. The mountains will come crashing down. The cliffs will break into pieces. Every wall will fall to the ground." 
Ezekiel38:21  ' I will punish you on all of my mountains,"" announces the Lord and King. ""Your men will use their swords against one another." 
Ezekiel38:22 I will judge you. I will send a plague against you. A lot of blood will be spilled. I will send heavy rain, hailstones and burning sulfur down to the earth. They will fall on you and your troops. They will also come down on the many nations that are helping you." 
Ezekiel38:23 That will show how great and holy I am. I will make myself known to many nations. Then they will know that I am the Lord. ' 
Ezekiel39:1 Son of man, prophesy against Gog. Tell him, 'The Lord and King says, ""Gog, I am against you. You are the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal." 
Ezekiel39:2 But I will turn you around. I will drag you along. I will bring you from the far north. I will send you against the mountains of Israel. 
Ezekiel39:3 Then I will knock your bow out of your left hand. I will make your arrows drop from your right hand. 
Ezekiel39:4  ' You will fall dead on the mountains of Israel. You and all of your troops will die there. So will the nations that join you. I will feed you to all kinds of birds that eat dead bodies. So they and the wild animals will eat you up. 
Ezekiel39:5 You will fall dead in the open fields. I have spoken,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel39:6  ' I will send fire on the land of Magog. It will burn up the people who live in safety on the coast. So they will know that I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel39:7  ' I will make my holy name known among my people Israel. I will no longer let them treat my name as if it were not holy. Then the nations will know that I am the Holy One in Israel. I am the Lord. 
Ezekiel39:8 The day I will judge you is coming. You can be sure of it,"" announces the Lord and King. ""It is the day I have spoken about." 
Ezekiel39:9  ' At that time those who live in the towns of Israel will go out and light a fire. They will use it to burn up the weapons. That includes small and large shields. It also includes bows and arrows, war clubs and spears. It will take seven years to burn all of them up." 
Ezekiel39:10 People will not gather wood from the fields. They will not cut the forests down. Instead, they will burn the weapons. And they will rob those who robbed them. They will steal from those who stole from them,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel39:11  ' Gog, at that time I will bury you in a grave in Israel. It will be in the valley where people travel east of the Dead Sea. It will block the path of travelers. That is because you and your huge armies will be buried there. So it will be called The Valley of Gog's Armies." 
Ezekiel39:12  ' It will take seven months for the people of Israel to bury the bodies. They will do it to make the land 'clean' again. 
Ezekiel39:13 All of the people in the land will bury them. That will bring glory to me. It will be a time to remember,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel39:14  ' After the seven months are over, men will be hired to finish the job of making the land 'clean' again. Some will go all through it. They will look for any remaining human bones on the ground. Other people will bury the bones." 
Ezekiel39:15 So some will go through the land. When they see a bone, they will put a marker beside it. Then those who dig the graves will take it to The Valley of Gog's Armies. There they will bury it." 
Ezekiel39:16 That is how they will make the land 'clean' again. '  Also a town called Gog's Armies will be located there. 
Ezekiel39:17 The Lord and King said to me, ""Son of man, speak to every kind of bird. Call out to all of the wild animals. Tell them, 'Gather together. Come from everywhere. Gather around the sacrifice I am preparing for you. It is the great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel. There you will eat human bodies and drink human blood." 
Ezekiel39:18  'You will eat the bodies of mighty men. You will drink the blood of the princes of the earth. You will eat their bodies and drink their blood as if they were rams and lambs, goats and bulls. You will enjoy it as if you were eating the fattest animals from Bashan." 
Ezekiel39:19  'So I am preparing a sacrifice for you. You will eat fat until you are completely full. You will drink blood until you are drunk. 
Ezekiel39:20 At my table you will eat horses, riders, mighty men and soldiers until you are full,' announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel39:21  'I will show all of the nations my glory. They will see how I punish them when I use my powerful hand against them. 
Ezekiel39:22 From that time on, the people of Israel will know that I am the Lord their God." 
Ezekiel39:23  'The nations will know that the people of Israel were taken away as prisoners because they sinned against me. They were not faithful to me. So I turned my face away from them. I handed them over to their enemies. All of them were killed with swords. 
Ezekiel39:24 I punished them because they were unclean. They did many things that were wrong. So I turned my face away from them.' 
Ezekiel39:25 The Lord and King says, ""I will now bring the people of Jacob back home again. I will show my tender love for all of the people of Israel. I will make sure that my name is kept holy." 
Ezekiel39:26 My people will forget the shameful things they have done. They will not remember all of the ways they were unfaithful to me. They used to live in safety in their land. At that time no one made them afraid. 
Ezekiel39:27 So I will bring them back from the nations. I will gather them from the countries of their enemies. And I will use them to show many nations how holy I am. 
Ezekiel39:28 Then they will know that I am the Lord their God. I let the nations take my people away as prisoners. But now I will bring them back to their own land. I will not leave anyone behind. 
Ezekiel39:29 I will no longer turn my face away from the people of Israel. I will pour out my Spirit on them,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel40:1 It was the 14th year after Jerusalem had been captured. It was the tenth day of a month near the beginning of the 25th year since we had been brought to Babylonia as prisoners. On that very day the Lord put his strong hand on me. He took me back to my land. 
Ezekiel40:2 In visions God gave me, he brought me to the land of Israel. He set me on a very high mountain. Some buildings were on the south side of it. They looked like a city." 
Ezekiel40:3 He took me there. I saw a man who appeared to be made out of bronze. He was standing at the gate of the outer courtyard. He was holding a linen measuring tape and a measuring rod. 
Ezekiel40:4 The man said to me, ""Son of man, look with your eyes. Listen with your ears. Pay attention to everything I show you. That is why the Lord brought you here. Tell the people of Israel everything you see.""" 
Ezekiel40:5 I saw a wall that completely surrounded the temple area. The measuring rod in the man's hand was ten and a half feet long. He measured the wall with it. The wall was as thick and as high as one measuring rod. 
Ezekiel40:6 Then the man went to the gate that faced east. He climbed its steps. He measured the gateway. It was one rod wide. 
Ezekiel40:7 The rooms where the guards stood were one rod long and one rod wide. The walls between the rooms were almost nine feet thick. The gateway next to the porch was one rod wide. The porch faced the front of the temple. 
Ezekiel40:8 Then the man measured the porch of the gateway. 
Ezekiel40:9 It was 14 feet wide. Each of its doorposts was three and a half feet thick. The porch of the gateway faced the front of the temple. 
Ezekiel40:10 Inside the east gate were three rooms on each side. All of the rooms were the same size. The walls on each side of the rooms had the same thickness. 
Ezekiel40:11 Then the man measured the entrance of the gateway. It was 17 and a half feet wide and almost 23 feet long. 
Ezekiel40:12 In front of each room was a wall. It was 21 inches high. The rooms measured ten and a half feet on each side. 
Ezekiel40:13 Then he measured the gateway from the back wall of one room to the back wall of the room across from it. It was almost 44 feet from the top of one wall to the top of the other. 
Ezekiel40:14 He measured along the front of the side walls that were all around the inside of the gateway. The total was 105 feet. That didn't include the porch that faced the courtyard. 
Ezekiel40:15 It was 87 and a half feet from the entrance of the gateway to the far end of its porch. 
Ezekiel40:16 The rooms and their side walls inside the gateway had narrow openings on top of them. So did the porch. All of the openings faced the inside. The front of each side wall was decorated with a palm tree. 
Ezekiel40:17 Then the man brought me into the outer courtyard. There I saw some rooms and a sidewalk. They had been built all around the courtyard. Along the sidewalk were 30 rooms. 
Ezekiel40:18 The sidewalk went all the way up to the sides of the gateways. It was as wide as they were long. That was the lower sidewalk. 
Ezekiel40:19 Then he measured from the inside of the lower gateway to the outside of the inner courtyard. The east side measured 175 feet. So did the north side. 
Ezekiel40:20 Then the man measured the gate that faced north. He wanted to show me how long and wide it was. The gate led into the outer courtyard. 
Ezekiel40:21 It had three rooms on each side. Their side walls and porch measured the same as the ones at the first gateway. They measured 87 and a half feet long and almost 44 feet wide. 
Ezekiel40:22 Its openings, porch and palm tree decorations measured the same as the ones at the east gate. Seven steps led up to the north gate. Its porch was across from them." 
Ezekiel40:23 The inner courtyard had a gate. It faced the gate on the north. It was just like the east gate. He measured from one gate to the one across from it. The total was 175 feet. 
Ezekiel40:24 Then the man led me to the south side of the courtyard. There I saw a gate that faced south. He measured its doorposts and porch. They measured the same as the others. 
Ezekiel40:25 The gateway and its porch had narrow openings all around. The openings were the same as the others had. The side walls and porch measured 87 and a half feet long and almost 44 feet wide. 
Ezekiel40:26 Seven steps led up to it. Its porch was across from them. The front of each side wall was decorated with a palm tree. 
Ezekiel40:27 The inner courtyard also had a gate that faced south. The man measured from that gate to the outer gate on the south side. The total was 175 feet. 
Ezekiel40:28 Then the man brought me into the inner courtyard. We went through the south gate. He measured it. It was the same size as the others. 
Ezekiel40:29 Its rooms, side walls and porch measured the same as the ones at the other gateways. The gateway and its porch had openings all around. The side walls and porch measured 87 and a half feet long and almost 44 feet wide." 
Ezekiel40:30 The porches of the gateways around the inner courtyard were almost 44 feet wide and 9 feet long. 
Ezekiel40:31 Its porch faced the outer courtyard. Palm trees decorated its doorposts. Eight steps led up to it. 
Ezekiel40:32 Then the man brought me to the east side of the inner courtyard. There he measured the gateway. It was the same size as the others. 
Ezekiel40:33 Its rooms, side walls and porch measured the same as the ones at the other gateways. The gateway and its porch had openings all around. The side walls and porch measured 87 and a half feet long and almost 44 feet wide." 
Ezekiel40:34 Its porch faced the outer courtyard. Each doorpost was decorated with a palm tree. Eight steps led up to the porch. 
Ezekiel40:35 Then the man brought me to the north gate. He measured it. It was the same size as the others. 
Ezekiel40:36 Its rooms, side walls and porch measured the same as the ones at the other gateways. It had openings all around. The side walls and the porch measured 87 and a half feet long and almost 44 feet wide." 
Ezekiel40:37 The porch faced the outer courtyard. Each doorpost was decorated with a palm tree. Eight steps led up to the porch. 
Ezekiel40:38 A room with a doorway was by the porch of each inner gateway. The burnt offerings were washed there. 
Ezekiel40:39 On each side of the porch of the gateway were two tables. The burnt offerings were killed on them. So were the sin offerings and guilt offerings. 
Ezekiel40:40 Two more tables were by the outer wall of the gateway porch. They were near the steps at the entrance of the north gateway. Two more tables were on the other side of the steps. 
Ezekiel40:41 So there were four tables on each side of the gateway. The total number of tables was eight. Animals for sacrifice were killed on all of them. 
Ezekiel40:42 There were also four other tables for the burnt offerings. They were made out of blocks of stone. Each table was two and a half feet long and two and a half feet wide. And each was almost two feet high. The tools for killing the burnt offerings and other sacrifices were placed on them. 
Ezekiel40:43 Large hooks hung on the walls all around. Each was three inches long. The meat of the offerings was placed on the tables. 
Ezekiel40:44 Near the inner gates were two rooms. They were in the inner courtyard. One room was next to the north gate. It faced south. The other one was next to the south gate. It faced north. 
Ezekiel40:45 The man said to me, ""The room that faces south is for the priests who are in charge of the temple." 
Ezekiel40:46 The one that faces north is for the priests who are in charge of the altar. All of those priests are the sons of Zadok. They are the only Levites who can approach the Lord to serve him. 
Ezekiel40:47 Then the man measured the courtyard. It was square. It measured 175 feet long and 175 feet wide. And the altar was in front of the temple. 
Ezekiel40:48 The man brought me to the porch of the temple. He measured the doorposts of the porch. Each of them was almost nine feet wide. The entrance was 24 and a half feet wide. Each of the side walls was a little over five feet wide. 
Ezekiel40:49 The porch was 35 feet wide. It was 21 feet from front to back. It was reached by some stairs. Pillars were on each side of the doorposts. 
Ezekiel41:1 Then the man brought me to the Holy Room in the temple. There he measured the doorposts. Each of them was ten and a half feet wide. 
Ezekiel41:2 The entrance was 17 and a half feet wide. Each of its side walls was almost nine feet wide. He also measured the Holy Room. It was 70 feet long and 35 feet wide. 
Ezekiel41:3 Then he went into the Most Holy Room. There he measured the doorposts at the entrance. Each one of them was three and a half feet wide. The entrance itself was ten and a half feet wide. Each of its side walls was a little over 12 feet wide. 
Ezekiel41:4 He also measured the Most Holy Room. It was 35 feet long and 35 feet wide. He said to me, ""This is the Most Holy Room."" It was beyond the back wall of the Holy Room." 
Ezekiel41:5 Then the man measured the wall of the temple. It was ten and a half feet thick. Each side room around the temple was seven feet wide. 
Ezekiel41:6 The side rooms were on three floors. There were 30 rooms on each floor. Ledges had been built all around the wall of the temple. So the floor beams of the side rooms rested on the ledges. The beams didn't go into the temple wall. 
Ezekiel41:7 The side rooms of the temple were wider as we went up floor by floor. A stairway went from the lowest floor all the way up to the top floor. It passed through the middle floor. 
Ezekiel41:8 I saw that the temple had a raised base all around it. The base formed the foundation of the side rooms. It was as long as one measuring rod. So it was ten and a half feet long. 
Ezekiel41:9 The outer wall of each side room was almost nine feet thick. The open area between the side rooms of the temple 
Ezekiel41:10 and the priests' rooms was 35 feet wide all around the temple. 
Ezekiel41:11 The side rooms had entrances from the open area. One was on the north side. Another was on the south. The base next to the open area was almost nine feet wide all around. 
Ezekiel41:12 There was a large building right behind the temple. It was on the west side of the outer courtyard. It was 122 and a half feet wide. Its wall was almost nine feet thick all around. And it was 157 and a half feet long. 
Ezekiel41:13 Then the man measured the temple. It was 175 feet long. The open area and the large building behind the temple also measured 175 feet. 
Ezekiel41:14 The east side of the inner courtyard was 175 feet wide. That included the front of the temple. 
Ezekiel41:15 Then the man measured the building that was on the west side of the outer courtyard. It was behind the temple. It was 175 feet long. That included the walkways of the building on each side. The Holy Room, the Most Holy Room and the porch that faced the inner courtyard" 
Ezekiel41:16 were covered with wood. So were the gateways, narrow openings and walkways around those three places. The gateways and everything beyond them were covered with wood. The floor, the wall up to the openings, and the openings themselves were also covered." 
Ezekiel41:17 The area above the outside of the entrance to the Most Holy Room was decorated. There were also decorations all around the walls of the Most Holy Room. 
Ezekiel41:18 Carved cherubim and palm trees were used in the decorations. Each cherub had a palm tree next to it. And each palm tree had a cherub next to it. Each cherub had two faces. 
Ezekiel41:19 One was a man's face. It looked toward the palm tree on one side. The other was the face of a lion. It looked toward the palm tree on the other side. The decorations were carved all around the whole temple. 
Ezekiel41:20 Cherubim and palm trees decorated the wall of the Holy Room. They were carved from the floor all the way up to the area above the entrance. 
Ezekiel41:21 The Holy Room had a doorframe that was shaped like a rectangle. So did the Most Holy Room. 
Ezekiel41:22 A wooden altar stood in the Holy Room. It was a little over five feet high. It was three and a half feet long and three and a half feet wide. Its corners, base and sides were made out of wood. The man said to me, ""This is the table that stands in front of the Lord.""" 
Ezekiel41:23 The Holy Room had double doors. So did the Most Holy Room. 
Ezekiel41:24 Each door had two parts that could swing back and forth. 
Ezekiel41:25 Cherubim and palm trees were carved on the doors of the Holy Room. The decorations were like the ones on the walls. A wooden roof went out beyond the front of the porch. 
Ezekiel41:26 The side walls of the porch had narrow openings on top of them. Palm trees were carved on each side. A wooden roof went out beyond the entrance to each side room of the temple. 
Ezekiel42:1 Then the man led me north into the outer courtyard of the temple. He brought me to the rooms that were across from the inner courtyard. They were across from the outer wall of the temple on the north side. 
Ezekiel42:2 The rooms were in a building north of the temple. The building had a door that faced north. It was 175 feet long. It was 87 and a half feet wide. 
Ezekiel42:3 One row of rooms was next to the inner courtyard. The other row was across from the sidewalk of the outer courtyard. Each room was 35 feet long. Walkways in front of each row faced each other on all three floors. 
Ezekiel42:4 Between the two rows was an inner sidewalk. It was 17 and a half feet wide and 175 feet long. Each of the rooms had a door on the north side. 
Ezekiel42:5 The rooms on the top floor were narrower than the others. The walkways took up more space from them than they did from the rooms on the other two floors. 
Ezekiel42:6 The courtyards had pillars. But the rooms on the third floor didn't. So their floor space was smaller than the space in the rooms on the other floors. 
Ezekiel42:7 The building had an outer wall that was even with the outer row of rooms and with the outer courtyard. The wall continued east of the outer row for 87 and a half feet. 
Ezekiel42:8 So there were two rows of rooms. The row next to the outer courtyard was 87 and a half feet long. The one closest to the temple was 175 feet long. 
Ezekiel42:9 The first floor of the building had an entrance on the east side. It led to the outer courtyard. 
Ezekiel42:10 There were also two rows of rooms in a building next to the south side of the inner courtyard. The building was across from the south wall of the outer courtyard. 
Ezekiel42:11 Between the two rows was an inner sidewalk. The rooms were like the ones in the north building. They were as long and wide as the rooms on the north. The doorways of the rooms on the south were like the ones on the north. 
Ezekiel42:12 People entered the south rooms through the doorway at the east end of the inner sidewalk. The south wall continued east of the outer row of rooms. 
Ezekiel42:13 The man said to me, ""The north and south rooms face the inner courtyard. They are the priests' rooms. That is where the priests who approach the Lord will eat the very holy offerings. They will also store them there. That includes the grain offerings, sin offerings and guilt offerings. This place is holy." 
Ezekiel42:14 The priests who enter these holy rooms must leave behind the clothes they served in. Then they can go into the outer courtyard. The clothes they served in are holy. So they must put other clothes on. They have to do that before they go near the places where other people go. 
Ezekiel42:15 The man finished measuring what was inside the temple area. Then he led me out through the east gate. He measured all around the area. 
Ezekiel42:16 He measured the east side with his measuring rod. It was 875 feet long. 
Ezekiel42:17 He measured the north side. It was 875 feet long. 
Ezekiel42:18 He measured the south side. It was 875 feet long. 
Ezekiel42:19 Finally, he turned and measured the west side. It was 875 feet long." 
Ezekiel42:20 So he measured the area on all four sides. It had a wall around it. The wall was 875 feet long and 875 feet wide. It separated what was holy from what was not. 
Ezekiel43:1 Then the man brought me to the east gate. 
Ezekiel43:2 There I saw the glory of the God of Israel. He was coming from the east. His voice was like the roar of rushing waters. His glory made the land shine brightly. 
Ezekiel43:3 The vision I saw was like the one I had when he came to destroy the city. It was also like the visions I had seen by the Kebar River. I fell with my face toward the ground. 
Ezekiel43:4 The glory of the Lord entered the temple through the east gate. 
Ezekiel43:5 Then the Spirit lifted me up. He brought me into the inner courtyard. The glory of the Lord filled the temple. 
Ezekiel43:6 The man was standing beside me. I heard someone speaking to me from inside the temple. 
Ezekiel43:7 He said, ""Son of man, this is the place where my throne is. The stool for my feet is also here. I will live here among the people of Israel forever. They will never again treat my name as if it were not holy. They and their kings will not serve other gods anymore. The people will no longer worship the lifeless gods of their kings at their high places." 
Ezekiel43:8 The people of Israel placed their own doorway next to my holy doorway. They put their doorposts right beside mine. Nothing but a thin wall separated us. They treated my name as if it were not holy. I hated it when they did that. So I became angry with them and destroyed them. 
Ezekiel43:9 Now let them stop serving other gods. Let them quit worshiping the lifeless gods of their kings. If they obey me, I will live among them forever." 
Ezekiel43:10 Son of man, tell the people of Israel about the temple. Then they will be ashamed of their sins. Let them think carefully about the plan of the temple." 
Ezekiel43:11 What if they are ashamed of everything they have done? Then show them all of the plans of the temple. Explain to them how it is laid out. Tell them about its exits and entrances. Show them exactly what it will look like. Give them all of its rules and laws. Write everything down so they can see it. Then they will be faithful to its plan. And they will obey all of its rules. 
Ezekiel43:12 Here is the law of the temple. The whole area on top of Mount Zion will be very holy. That is the law of the temple. 
Ezekiel43:13 The man said, ""Here is the size of the altar. The standard measurement I am using is 21 inches. The base of the altar is 21 inches high. The base has a ledge that is 21 inches wide. It also has a rim that is nine inches wide around the edge. Here is how high the altar is." 
Ezekiel43:14 The lower part is three and a half feet high. It has a ledge that is 21 inches wide. The middle part is seven feet high. It has a ledge that is 21 inches wide. 
Ezekiel43:15 The top part is where the sacrifices are burned. It is seven feet high. A horn sticks out from each of its upper four corners. 
Ezekiel43:16 The top part of the altar is square. It is 21 feet long and 21 feet wide. 
Ezekiel43:17 The middle part is also square. It is 24 and a half feet long. It is 24 and a half feet wide. Its rim is ten and a half inches wide. The base of the altar is 21 inches high all the way around. The steps leading up to the top of the altar face east. 
Ezekiel43:18 Then the man said to me, ""Son of man, the Lord and King speaks. He says, 'Here are the rules for the altar when it is built. Follow them when you sacrifice burnt offerings and sprinkle blood on it." 
Ezekiel43:19 Give a young bull to the priests as a sin offering. They are Levites from the family of Zadok. They approach me to serve me,' announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel43:20 'Get some of the bull's blood. Put it on the four horns. Also put it on the four corners of the middle part of the altar and all around the rim. That will make the altar pure and clean. 
Ezekiel43:21 Use the bull for the sin offering. Burn it in the proper place outside the temple. 
Ezekiel43:22  'On the second day offer a male goat. It must not have any flaws. It is a sin offering to make the altar pure and clean. So do as you did with the bull. 
Ezekiel43:23 When you finish making the altar pure, offer a young bull and a ram from the flock. They must not have any flaws." 
Ezekiel43:24 Offer them to me. The priests must sprinkle salt on them. Then they must sacrifice them as a burnt offering to me. 
Ezekiel43:25  'Provide a male goat each day for seven days. It is a sin offering. Also provide a young bull and a ram from the flock. They must not have any flaws. 
Ezekiel43:26 For seven days the priests must make the altar pure and clean. That is how they will set it apart to me. 
Ezekiel43:27  'From the eighth day on, the priests must bring your burnt offerings and friendship offerings. They must sacrifice them on the altar. Then I will accept you,' announces the Lord and King.""" 
Ezekiel44:1 Then the man brought me back to the outer gate of the temple. It was the one that faced east. It was shut. 
Ezekiel44:2 The Lord said to me, ""This gate must remain shut. It must not be opened. No one can enter through it. It must remain shut because I have entered through it. I am the God of Israel." 
Ezekiel44:3 The prince is the only one who can sit in the gateway. There he can eat in front of me. He must enter through the porch of the gateway. And he must go out the same way. 
Ezekiel44:4 Then the man brought me through the north gate. He took me to the front of the temple. I looked up and saw the glory of the Lord. It filled his temple. I fell with my face toward the ground. 
Ezekiel44:5 The Lord said to me, ""Son of man, pay attention. Look carefully. Listen closely to everything I tell you about all of the rules concerning my temple. Pay attention to the entrance to the temple and to all of its exits." 
Ezekiel44:6 Speak to the people of Israel. They refuse to obey me. Tell them, 'The Lord and King says, ""People of Israel, I have had enough of your evil practices. I hate them." 
Ezekiel44:7 You brought strangers into my temple. They were not circumcised. Their hearts were stubborn. You polluted my temple. But you offered me food, fat and blood anyway. When you did all of those things, you broke the covenant I made with you. I hated all of the evil things you did." 
Ezekiel44:8  ' You did not do what I told you to. You did not take care of my holy things. Instead, you put other people in charge of my temple."" ' """ 
Ezekiel44:9 The Lord and King says, ""No stranger whose heart is stubborn can enter my temple. They have not been circumcised. Even if they live among the people of Israel they can't enter it." 
Ezekiel44:10 Some Levites wandered far away from me when Israel went down the wrong path. They worshiped the statues of their gods. So they will be punished because they have sinned. 
Ezekiel44:11 They might serve in my temple. They might be in charge of its gates. They might kill the burnt offerings and sacrifices for the people. And they might stand in front of the people and serve them in other ways. 
Ezekiel44:12 But they served the people of Israel while they were worshiping their gods. They made the people fall into sin. So I raised my hand and took an oath. I warned them that I would punish them because of their sin,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel44:13 They must not approach me to serve me as priests. They must not come near any of my holy things. They must stay away from my very holy offerings. They did many things they should have been ashamed of. I hated those things. 
Ezekiel44:14 But I will still put them in charge of the temple duties. They can do all of the work that has to be done there. 
Ezekiel44:15 But the priests must approach me to serve me. They are Levites from Zadok's family line. They faithfully carried out their duties in my temple. They obeyed me when the people of Israel turned away from me. Those priests must serve me by offering sacrifices of fat and blood,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel44:16 They are the only ones who can enter my temple. Only they can come near to serve me and do my work. 
Ezekiel44:17 They will enter the gates of the inner courtyard. When they do, they must wear linen clothes. They will serve at the gates of the inner courtyard or inside the temple. When they do, they must not wear any clothes that are made out of wool." 
Ezekiel44:18 They must have linen turbans on their heads. They must wear linen underwear around their waists. They must not put anything on that makes them sweat. 
Ezekiel44:19 They will go into the outer courtyard where the people are. When they do, they must take off the clothes they have been serving in. They must leave them in the sacred rooms. And they must put other clothes on. Then they will not make the people holy if the people happen to touch their clothes." 
Ezekiel44:20 The priests must not shave their heads. They must not let their hair grow long. They must keep it cut short. 
Ezekiel44:21 No priest can drink wine when he enters the inner courtyard. 
Ezekiel44:22 They must not get married to widows or divorced women. They can only marry Israelite virgins or the widows of priests. 
Ezekiel44:23 The priests must teach my people the difference between what is holy and what is not. They must show them how to tell the difference between what is 'clean' and what is not. 
Ezekiel44:24 When people do not agree, the priests must serve as judges between them. They must make their decisions based on my laws. They must obey my laws and rules for all of my appointed feasts. And they must keep my Sabbath days holy." 
Ezekiel44:25 A priest must not make himself 'unclean' by going near a dead person. But suppose the dead person was his father or mother. Or suppose it was his son or daughter or brother or unmarried sister. Then the priest can make himself 'unclean.' 
Ezekiel44:26 After he is pure and clean again, he must wait seven days." 
Ezekiel44:27 Then he can go to the inner courtyard to serve in the temple. But when he does, he must sacrifice a sin offering for himself,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel44:28 The priests will not receive any part of the land of Israel. I myself will be their only share. 
Ezekiel44:29 They will eat the grain offerings, sin offerings and guilt offerings. Everything in Israel that is set apart to me in a special way will belong to them." 
Ezekiel44:30 The best of every first share of the people's crops will belong to the priests. So will all of their special gifts. The people must give the priests the first share of their ground meal. Then I will bless my people's families. 
Ezekiel44:31 The priests must not eat any bird or animal that is found dead. They must not eat anything that wild animals have torn apart. 
Ezekiel45:1 People of Israel, you will divide up the land you will receive. When you do, give me my share of it. It will be a sacred area. It will be eight and a fourth miles long and six and a half miles wide. The entire area will be holy." 
Ezekiel45:2 The temple area in it will be 875 feet long and 875 feet wide. An 87-and-a-half-foot strip around it will be open land. 
Ezekiel45:3 In the sacred area, measure off a large strip of land. It will be eight and a fourth miles long and three and a third miles wide. The temple will be in it. It will be the most holy place of all." 
Ezekiel45:4 The large strip will be the sacred share of land for the priests. There they will serve in the temple. And they will approach me to serve me there. Their houses will be built on that land. The holy temple will also be located there. 
Ezekiel45:5 So the Levites will serve in the temple. They will have an area eight and a fourth miles long and three and a third miles wide. The towns they live in will be located there. 
Ezekiel45:6 Give the city an area one and two thirds miles wide and eight and a fourth miles long. It will be right next to the sacred area. It will belong to all of the people of Israel. 
Ezekiel45:7 The prince will have land on both sides of the sacred area and the city. Its border will run east and west along the land of one of the tribes. 
Ezekiel45:8 The prince will own that land in Israel. And my princes will not crush my people anymore. Instead, they will allow the people of Israel to receive their own share of land. It will be divided up based on their tribes.""" 
Ezekiel45:9 The Lord and King says, ""Princes of Israel, you have gone far enough! Stop hurting others. Do not crush them. Do what is fair and right. Stop taking my people's land away from them,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel45:10 Use weights and measures that are honest and exact. 
Ezekiel45:11 Use the same standard to measure dry and liquid products. Use a 6-bushel measure for dry products. And use a 60-gallon measure for liquids. 
Ezekiel45:12 Every amount of money must be weighed out in keeping with the standard weights. 
Ezekiel45:13 You must offer a special gift. It must be 13 and a third cups out of every six bushels of grain. 
Ezekiel45:14 Give two and a half quarts out of every 60 gallons of olive oil. 
Ezekiel45:15 Also give one sheep from every flock of 200 sheep. Get them from the grasslands of Israel that receive plenty of water. Use them for grain offerings, burnt offerings and friendship offerings. They will be used to pay for the sin of the people,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel45:16 All of the people in the land will take part in that special gift. The prince in Israel will use it. 
Ezekiel45:17 He must provide the burnt offerings, grain offerings and drink offerings. They will be for the yearly feasts, New Moon Feasts and Sabbath days. So they will be for all of the appointed feasts of the people of Israel. The prince will provide the sin offerings, grain offerings, burnt offerings and friendship offerings. They will be used to pay for the sin of the people.""" 
Ezekiel45:18 The Lord and King says, ""Get a young bull. It must not have any flaws. Use it to make the temple pure and clean. Do it on the first day of the first month." 
Ezekiel45:19 The priest must get some of the blood from the sin offering. He must put some on the doorposts of the temple. He must apply some to the four corners of the middle part of the altar. He must put the rest on the gateposts of the inner courtyard. 
Ezekiel45:20 Do the same thing on the seventh day of the month. Do it for those who sin without meaning to. And do it for those who sin without realizing what they are doing. So you will make the temple pure and clean. 
Ezekiel45:21 Keep the Passover Feast on the 14th day of the first month. It will last for seven days. During that time you must eat bread that is made without yeast. 
Ezekiel45:22 The prince must provide a bull as a sin offering. It will be for him and all of the people of the land. 
Ezekiel45:23 For each of the seven days of the Feast he must provide seven bulls and seven rams. They must not have any flaws. They will be a burnt offering to me. The prince must also provide a male goat for a sin offering. 
Ezekiel45:24 He must bring a little over half a bushel for each bull or ram. He must also provide four quarts of olive oil for each of them. 
Ezekiel45:25 The seven days of the Feast begin on the 15th day of the seventh month. During those days the prince must provide the same sin offerings, burnt offerings, grain offerings and olive oil.""" 
Ezekiel46:1 The Lord and King says, ""On the six working days of each week you must keep the east gate of the inner courtyard of the temple shut. But open it on Sabbath days and during New Moon Feasts." 
Ezekiel46:2 The prince must enter the temple area through the porch of the gateway. He must stand by the gatepost. The priests must sacrifice his burnt offering and friendship offerings. He must worship at the entrance of the gateway. Then he must leave. But the gate will not be shut until evening. 
Ezekiel46:3 On Sabbath days and during New Moon Feasts the people of the land must gather together at the entrance of the temple gateway. That is where they must worship me. 
Ezekiel46:4 The prince must bring a burnt offering to me on the Sabbath. It will be six male lambs and a ram. They must not have any flaws. 
Ezekiel46:5 He must offer a little over half a bushel of grain along with the ram. The grain he offers along with the lambs can be as much as he wants to give. He must also offer four quarts of olive oil for every half bushel of grain. 
Ezekiel46:6 On the day of the New Moon Feast the prince must also offer a young bull, six lambs and a ram. They must not have any flaws." 
Ezekiel46:7 He must offer a little over half a bushel of grain along with the bull or ram. The grain he offers along with the lambs can be as much as he wants to give. He must also offer four quarts of olive oil for every half bushel of grain. 
Ezekiel46:8 When the prince enters the temple area, he must go in through the porch of the gateway. He must leave the same way." 
Ezekiel46:9 The people of the land must worship me at the appointed feasts. Those who enter through the north gate must leave through the south gate. Those who enter through the south gate must leave through the north gate. They must not leave through the same gate they entered. Each one must go out the opposite gate. 
Ezekiel46:10 The prince must be among them. He must go in when they go in. And he must leave when they leave. 
Ezekiel46:11 At the yearly feasts and other appointed feasts there must be grain offerings. The prince must offer a little over half a bushel of grain along with a bull or ram. The grain he offers along with the lambs can be as much as he wants to give. He must also offer four quarts of olive oil for every half bushel of grain. 
Ezekiel46:12 He can also bring another offering to me because he chooses to. It might be a burnt offering or friendship offering. When he brings it, the east gate must be opened for him. He will bring his offering just as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he will leave. After he has gone out, the gate must be shut." 
Ezekiel46:13 Every day you must provide a lamb that is a year old. It must not have any flaws. It is a burnt offering to me. You must provide it every morning. 
Ezekiel46:14 You must also offer grain along with it every morning. Bring 13 and a third cups of grain. Also bring one and a third quarts of olive oil to make the flour a little wet. So you will give the grain offering to me. That will be a law that will last for all time to come. 
Ezekiel46:15 Provide the lamb, grain offering and oil every morning. They will be used for a regular burnt offering.""" 
Ezekiel46:16 The Lord and King says, ""Suppose the prince makes a gift from his share of land. And he gives it to one of his sons. Then the property will also belong to his sons after him. It will be handed down to them." 
Ezekiel46:17 But suppose he makes a gift from his share of land to one of his servants. Then the servant can keep it until the Year of Jubilee. After that, it will be returned to the prince. His property can be handed down only to his sons. It belongs to them." 
Ezekiel46:18 The prince must not take any share of land that belongs to the people. He must not drive them off their property. He must give his sons their share out of his own property. Then my people will not be separated from their property. 
Ezekiel46:19 The man brought me through the entrance at the side of the north building. That's where the priests' sacred rooms were located. He showed me a place west of the building. 
Ezekiel46:20 He said to me, ""This is where the priests will cook the guilt offerings and sin offerings. They will also bake the grain offerings here. Then they will not have to bring the offerings into the outer courtyard. That will keep the people from touching the offerings and becoming holy.""" 
Ezekiel46:21 Then the man brought me to the outer courtyard. He led me around to its four corners. In each corner I saw another smaller courtyard. 
Ezekiel46:22 So in the four corners of the outer courtyard were walled courtyards. Each one was 70 feet long and 52 and a half feet wide. All of them were the same size. 
Ezekiel46:23 Around the inside of each of the four courtyards was a stone ledge. Places for fire were built all around under each ledge. 
Ezekiel46:24 The man said to me, ""These are the kitchens. Those who serve at the temple will cook the people's sacrifices here.""" 
Ezekiel47:1 The man brought me back to the entrance to the temple. I saw water flowing east from under a temple gateway. The temple faced east. The water was coming down from under the south side of the temple. It was flowing south of the altar. 
Ezekiel47:2 Then he brought me out through the north gate of the outer courtyard. He led me around the outside to the outer gate that faced east. The water was flowing from the south side of the east gate. 
Ezekiel47:3 Then the man went toward the east. He had a measuring line in his hand. He measured off 1,750 feet. He led me through water that was up to my ankles." 
Ezekiel47:4 Then he measured off another 1,750 feet. He led me through water that was up to my knees. Then he measured off another 1,750 feet. He led me through water that was up to my waist." 
Ezekiel47:5 Then he measured off another 1,750 feet. But now it was a river that I could not go across. The water had risen so high that it was deep enough to swim in." 
Ezekiel47:6 He asked me, ""Son of man, do you see this?"" Then he led me back to the bank of the river." 
Ezekiel47:7 When I arrived there, I saw a large number of trees. They were on both sides of the river." 
Ezekiel47:8 The man said to me, ""This water flows toward the eastern territory. It goes down into the Arabah Valley. There it enters the Dead Sea. When it empties into it, the water there becomes fresh." 
Ezekiel47:9 Large numbers of creatures will live where the river flows. It will have huge numbers of fish. This water flows there and makes the salt water fresh. So where the river flows everything will live. 
Ezekiel47:10 People will stand along the shore to fish. From En Gedi all the way to En Eglaim there will be places for spreading fishnets. The Dead Sea will have many kinds of fish. They will be like the fish in the Mediterranean Sea. 
Ezekiel47:11 But none of the swamps will have fresh water in them. They will stay salty. 
Ezekiel47:12 Fruit trees of all kinds will grow on both banks of the river. Their leaves will not dry up. The trees will always have fruit on them. Every month they will bear fruit. The water from the temple will flow to them. Their fruit will be used for food. And their leaves will be used for healing. 
Ezekiel47:13 The Lord and King says, ""People of Israel, here are the borders you will have after you divide up the land. Each of the 12 tribes will receive a share. But the family of Joseph will have two shares." 
Ezekiel47:14 Divide the land into equal parts. Long ago I raised my hand and took an oath. I promised to give the land to your people. So all of it will belong to you. 
Ezekiel47:15 Here are the borders of the land. On the north side the border will start at the Mediterranean Sea. It will go by the Hethlon road past Lebo Hamath. Then it will continue on to Zedad," 
Ezekiel47:16 Berothah and Sibraim. Sibraim is between Damascus and Hamath. The border will reach all the way to Hazer Hatticon. It is right next to Hauran. 
Ezekiel47:17 The border will go from the sea to Hazar Enan. It will run north of Damascus and south of Hamath. That will be the north border. 
Ezekiel47:18 On the east side the border will run between Hauran and Damascus. It will continue along the Jordan River between Gilead and the land of Israel. It will reach to the Dead Sea and all the way to Tamar. That will be the east border. 
Ezekiel47:19 On the south side the border will start at Tamar. It will reach all the way to the waters of Meribah Kadesh. Then it will run along the Wadi of Egypt. It will end at the Mediterranean Sea. That will be the south border. 
Ezekiel47:20 On the west side, the Mediterranean Sea will be the border. It will go to a point across from Lebo Hamath. That will be the west border." 
Ezekiel47:21 You must divide up this land among yourselves. Do it based on the number of men in your tribes. 
Ezekiel47:22 Each of the tribes must receive a share of the land. You must also give some land to the outsiders who have settled among you and who have children. Treat them as if they had been born in Israel. Let them have some land among your tribes. 
Ezekiel47:23 Outsiders can settle in any tribe. There you must give them their share,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel48:1 Here are the tribes. They are listed by their names. Dan will receive one share of land. It will be at the northern border of Israel. The border will follow the Hethlon road to Lebo Hamath. Hazar Enan will be part of the border. So will the northern border of Damascus next to Hamath. Dan's northern border will run from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:2 Asher will receive one share. It will border the territory of Dan from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:3 Naphtali will receive one share. It will border the territory of Asher from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:4 Manasseh will receive one share. It will border the territory of Naphtali from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:5 Ephraim will receive one share. It will border the territory of Manasseh from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:6 Reuben will receive one share. It will border the territory of Ephraim from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:7 Judah will receive one share. It will border the territory of Reuben from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:8 You must give one share as a special gift to me. It will border the territory of Judah from east to west. It will be eight and a fourth miles wide. It will be as long as the border of each of the territories of the tribes. Its border will run from east to west. The temple will be in the center of that strip of land. 
Ezekiel48:9 Give that special share of land to me. It will be eight and a fourth miles long and three and a third miles wide. 
Ezekiel48:10 It will be the sacred share of land for the priests. It will be eight and a fourth miles long on the north side. It will be three and a third miles wide on the west side. It will be three and a third miles wide on the east side. And it will be eight and a fourth miles long on the south side. My temple will be in the center of it. 
Ezekiel48:11 This share of land will be for the priests who are set apart to me. They will come from the family line of Zadok. The members of that family served me faithfully. They did not go down the wrong path as the Levites and other Israelites did. 
Ezekiel48:12 Their share of land will be a special gift to them. It will be part of the sacred share of the land. It will be very holy. Its border will run along the territory of the Levites. 
Ezekiel48:13 The Levites will receive a share. It will be next to the territory of the priests. The Levites' share will be eight and a fourth miles long and three and a third miles wide. 
Ezekiel48:14 They must not sell or trade any of it. It is the best part of the land. It must not be handed over to anyone else. It is set apart to me. 
Ezekiel48:15 The area that remains is one and two thirds miles wide. It is eight and a fourth miles long. It will not be holy. The people in Jerusalem can build houses there. They can use some of it as grasslands. The city will be in the center of it. 
Ezekiel48:16 Each of the four sides of the city will be one and a half miles long. 
Ezekiel48:17 Each of the four sides of the city's grasslands will be 437 and a half feet long. 
Ezekiel48:18 What remains of the area will be three and a third miles long on the east and west sides. Its border will run along the border of the sacred share. Its crops will supply food for the city workers. 
Ezekiel48:19 They will farm the area. They will come from all of the tribes of Israel. 
Ezekiel48:20 The entire area will be a square. Each of its four sides will be eight and a fourth miles long. Set the sacred share apart as a special gift to me. Do the same thing with the property of the city. 
Ezekiel48:21 The area that remains on both sides will belong to the prince. So his land does not include the sacred share and the city property. The eastern part of his land will reach from the sacred share all the way to the eastern border. The western part will reach from the sacred share to the western border. The sacred share itself is eight and a fourth miles long on its east and west sides. Both of those areas will be right next to the borders of the two tribes on the north and south sides. They will belong to the prince. The sacred share will be in the center of them. It will have the temple in it. 
Ezekiel48:22 The property of the Levites will lie in the center of the prince's share. So will the property of the city. The prince's land will lie between the borders of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. 
Ezekiel48:23 Here is the land for the rest of the tribes. Benjamin will receive one share. It will reach from the eastern border to the western border. 
Ezekiel48:24 Simeon will receive one share. It will border the territory of Benjamin from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:25 Issachar will receive one share. It will border the territory of Simeon from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:26 Zebulun will receive one share. It will border the territory of Issachar from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:27 Gad will receive one share. It will border the territory of Zebulun from east to west. 
Ezekiel48:28 The southern border of Gad will run south from Tamar to the waters of Meribah Kadesh. It will continue along the Wadi of Egypt. It will end at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Ezekiel48:29 That is the land you must divide among the tribes of Israel. And those will be the shares they will receive,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Ezekiel48:30 Here is a list of the gates of the city. Start with its north side. It will be a mile and a half long. 
Ezekiel48:31 The city gates will be named after the tribes of Israel. The north side will have three gates. They will be the gates of Reuben, Judah and Levi." 
Ezekiel48:32 The east side will be a mile and a half long. It will have three gates. They will be the gates of Joseph, Benjamin and Dan." 
Ezekiel48:33 The south side will be a mile and a half long. It will have three gates. They will be the gates of Simeon, Issachar and Zebulun." 
Ezekiel48:34 The west side will be a mile and a half long. It will have three gates. They will be the gates of Gad, Asher and Naphtali." 
Ezekiel48:35 The city will be six miles around. From that time on, its name will be the Lord is there.""" 
Daniel1:1 It was the third year that Jehoiakim was king of Judah. Nebuchadnezzar came to Jerusalem. His armies surrounded the city and attacked it. Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylonia. 
Daniel1:2 The Lord handed Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, over to him. Nebuchadnezzar also took some of the articles from God's temple. He carried them off to the temple of his god in Babylonia. He put them among the treasures of his god." 
Daniel1:3 The king gave Ashpenaz an order. Ashpenaz was the chief of Nebuchadnezzar's court officials. The king told him to bring in some of the Israelites. He wanted nobles and men from the royal family. 
Daniel1:4 He was looking for young men who were healthy and handsome. They had to be able to learn anything. They had to be well educated. They had to have the ability to understand new things quickly and easily. The king wanted men who could serve in his palace. Ashpenaz was supposed to teach them the Babylonian language and writings. 
Daniel1:5 The king had his servants give them food and wine from his own table. They received a certain amount every day. The young men had to be trained for three years. After that, they could begin to serve the king." 
Daniel1:6 Some of the men were from Judah. Their names were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah." 
Daniel1:7 The chief official gave them new names. He gave Daniel the name Belteshazzar. He gave Hananiah the name Shadrach. He gave Mishael the name Meshach. And he gave Azariah the name Abednego. 
Daniel1:8 Daniel decided not to make himself unclean by eating the king's food and drinking his wine. So he asked the chief official for a favor. He wanted permission not to make himself unclean with the king's food and wine. 
Daniel1:9 God had caused the official to be kind and friendly to Daniel. 
Daniel1:10 But the official refused to do what Daniel asked for. He said, ""I'm afraid of the king. He is my master. He has decided what you and your three friends must eat and drink. Why should he see you looking worse than the other young men who are the same age you are? When he sees how you look, he might kill me.""" 
Daniel1:11 So Daniel spoke to one of the guards. The chief official had appointed him over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah." 
Daniel1:12 Daniel said to him, ""Please test us for ten days. Give us nothing but vegetables to eat. And give us only water to drink." 
Daniel1:13 Then compare us with the young men who eat the king's food. See how we look. After that, do what you want to.""" 
Daniel1:14 So the guard agreed. He tested them for ten days. 
Daniel1:15 After the ten days they looked healthy and well fed. In fact, they looked better than any of the young men who ate the king's food." 
Daniel1:16 So the guard didn't require Daniel and his friends to eat the special food or drink the wine. He gave them vegetables instead. 
Daniel1:17 God gave knowledge and understanding to those four young men. So they understood all kinds of writings and subjects. And Daniel could understand all kinds of visions and dreams. 
Daniel1:18 The three years the king had set for their training ended. So the chief official brought them to Nebuchadnezzar. 
Daniel1:19 The king talked with them. He didn't find anyone equal to Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah. So they began to serve the king." 
Daniel1:20 He asked them for advice in matters that required wisdom and understanding. He always found their answers to be the best. In fact, the men were ten times better than anyone in his kingdom who claimed to get knowledge by using magic." 
Daniel1:21 Daniel served in Babylon until the first year Cyrus ruled over Babylonia. Cyrus was king of Persia. 
Daniel2:1 In the second year of Nebuchadnezzar's rule, he had a dream. His mind was troubled. He couldn't sleep." 
Daniel2:2 So the king sent for those who claimed to get knowledge by using magic. He also sent for those who practiced evil magic and those who studied the heavens. He wanted them to tell him what he had dreamed. They came in and stood in front of the king. 
Daniel2:3 He said to them, ""I had a dream. It troubles me. So I want to know what it means.""" 
Daniel2:4 Then those who studied the heavens answered the king. They spoke in Aramaic. They said, ""King Nebuchadnezzar, may you live forever! Tell us what you dreamed. Then we'll explain what it means.""" 
Daniel2:5 The king replied to them, ""I have made up my mind. You must tell me what I dreamed. And you must tell me what it means. If you don't, I'll have you cut to pieces. And I'll have your houses turned into piles of trash." 
Daniel2:6 So tell me what I dreamed. Explain it to me. Then I'll give you gifts. I'll reward you. I'll give you great honor. So tell me the dream. And tell me what it means. 
Daniel2:7 Once more they replied, ""King Nebuchadnezzar, tell us what you dreamed. Then we'll tell you what it means.""" 
Daniel2:8 The king answered, ""I know what you are doing. You are trying to gain more time. You realize that I've made up my mind." 
Daniel2:9 You must tell me the dream. If you don't, you will pay for it. You have gotten together and made evil plans. You hope things will change. So you are telling me lies. But I want you to tell me what I dreamed. Then I'll know that you can tell me what it means.""" 
Daniel2:10 They answered the king, ""There isn't a man on earth who can do what you are asking! No king has ever asked for anything like that. Not even a king as great and mighty as you has asked for it. Those who get knowledge by using magic have never been asked to do what you are asking. And those who study the heavens haven't been asked to do it either." 
Daniel2:11 What you are asking is much too hard. No one can tell you what you dreamed except the gods. And they don't live among human beings. 
Daniel2:12 That made the king very angry. He ordered that all of the wise men in Babylon be put to death. 
Daniel2:13 So the order was given to kill them. Men were sent out to look for Daniel and his friends. They were also supposed to be put to death. 
Daniel2:14 Arioch was the commander of the king's guard. He went out to put the wise men of Babylon to death. So Daniel spoke to him wisely and carefully. 
Daniel2:15 He asked the king's officer, ""Why did Nebuchadnezzar give a terrible order like that?"" Then Arioch explained to Daniel what was going on." 
Daniel2:16 When Daniel heard that, he went to the king. He told him he would explain the dream to him. But he needed more time." 
Daniel2:17 Then Daniel returned to his house. He explained everything to his friends Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah." 
Daniel2:18 He asked them to pray that the God of heaven would give him mercy. He wanted God to help him understand the mystery of the king's dream. Then he and his friends wouldn't be killed along with the other wise men in Babylon. 
Daniel2:19 During that night, God gave Daniel a vision. He showed him what the mystery was all about. Then Daniel praised the God of heaven." 
Daniel2:20 He said, ""May God be praised for ever and ever! He is wise and powerful." 
Daniel2:21 He changes times and seasons. He sets up kings. He removes them from power. The wisdom of those who are wise comes from him. He gives knowledge to those who have understanding. 
Daniel2:22 He explains deep and hidden things. He knows what happens in the darkest places. And where he is, everything is light." 
Daniel2:23 God of my people, I thank and praise you. You have given me wisdom and power. You have made known to me what we asked you for. You have shown us the king's dream.""" 
Daniel2:24 Then Daniel went to Arioch. The king had appointed him to put the wise men of Babylon to death. Daniel said to him, ""Don't kill the wise men of Babylon. Take me to the king. I'll tell him what his dream means.""" 
Daniel2:25 So Arioch took Daniel to the king at once. Arioch said, ""I have found a man among those you brought here from Judah. He can tell you what your dream means.""" 
Daniel2:26 Nebuchadnezzar spoke to Daniel, who was also called Belteshazzar. The king asked him, ""Are you able to tell me what I saw in my dream? And can you tell me what it means?""" 
Daniel2:27 Daniel replied, ""You have asked us to explain a mystery to you. But no wise man can do that. And those who try to figure things out by using magic can't do it either." 
Daniel2:28 But there is a God in heaven who can explain mysteries. Nebuchadnezzar, he has shown you what is going to happen. Here is what you dreamed. And here are the visions that passed through your mind while you were lying on your bed." 
Daniel2:29 My king, while you were still in bed your mind thought about things that haven't happened yet. The One who explains mysteries showed those things to you." 
Daniel2:30 Now the mystery has been explained to me. But it isn't because I have greater wisdom than anyone else. It's because God wants you to know what the mystery means, my king. He wants you to understand what went through your mind." 
Daniel2:31 King Nebuchadnezzar, you looked up and saw a large statue standing in front of you. It was huge. It shone brightly. And it terrified you." 
Daniel2:32 The head of the statue was made out of pure gold. Its chest and arms were made of silver. Its stomach and thighs were bronze. 
Daniel2:33 Its legs were made out of iron. And its feet were partly iron and partly baked clay. 
Daniel2:34 While you were watching, a rock was cut out. But human hands didn't do it. It struck the statue on its feet of iron and clay. It smashed them." 
Daniel2:35 Then the iron and clay were broken to pieces. So were the bronze, silver and gold. All of them were broken to pieces at the same time. They became like straw on a threshing floor at harvest time. The wind blew them away without leaving a trace. But the rock that struck the statue became a huge mountain. It filled the whole earth." 
Daniel2:36 That was your dream. Now I will tell you what it means. 
Daniel2:37 Nebuchadnezzar, you are the greatest king of all. The God of heaven has given you authority and power. He has given you might and glory." 
Daniel2:38 He has put everyone under your control. He has also given you authority over the wild animals and the birds of the air. It doesn't matter where they live. He has made you ruler over all of them. You are that head of gold. 
Daniel2:39 After you, another kingdom will take over. It won't be as powerful as yours. Next, a third kingdom will rule over the whole earth. The bronze part of the statue stands for that kingdom." 
Daniel2:40 Finally, there will be a fourth kingdom. It will be as strong as iron. Iron breaks and smashes everything to pieces. And the fourth kingdom will crush and break all of the others." 
Daniel2:41 You saw that the feet and toes were made out of iron and baked clay. And the fourth kingdom will be divided up. But it will still be almost as strong as iron. That's why you saw iron mixed with clay. 
Daniel2:42 The toes were partly iron and partly clay. And the fourth kingdom will be partly strong and partly weak. 
Daniel2:43 You saw the iron mixed with baked clay. And the fourth kingdom will be made up of all kinds of people. They won't hold together any more than iron mixes with clay. 
Daniel2:44 In the time of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom. It will never be destroyed. And no other nation will ever take it over. It will crush all of those other kingdoms. It will bring them to an end. But it will last forever." 
Daniel2:45 That's what the vision of the rock cut out of a mountain means. Human hands didn't cut the rock out. It broke the statue to pieces. It smashed the iron, bronze, clay, silver and gold. ""The great God has shown you what will take place in days to come. The dream is true. And you can trust the meaning I have given you for it.""" 
Daniel2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar bowed low in front of Daniel. He wanted to honor him. So he ordered that an offering and incense be offered up to him. 
Daniel2:47 The king said to Daniel, ""I'm sure your God is the greatest God of all. He is the Lord of kings. He explains mysteries. That's why you were able to explain the mystery of my dream.""" 
Daniel2:48 Then the king put Daniel in a position of authority. He gave him many gifts. He made him ruler over the city of Babylon and the towns around it. He put him in charge of all of its other wise men. 
Daniel2:49 The king also did what Daniel asked him to. He appointed Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego to help Daniel govern Babylon and the towns around it. Daniel himself remained at the royal court." 
Daniel3:1 King Nebuchadnezzar made a statue that was covered with gold. It was 90 feet tall and 9 feet wide. He set it up on the flatlands of Dura near the city of Babylon. 
Daniel3:2 Then the king sent for the royal rulers, high officials and governors. He sent for the advisers, treasurers, judges and court officers. And he sent for all of the other officials of Babylon. He asked them to come to a special gathering to honor the statue he had set up." 
Daniel3:3 So the royal rulers, high officials and governors came together. So did the advisers, treasurers, judges and court officers. All of the other officials joined them. They came to honor the statue that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. They stood in front of it." 
Daniel3:4 Then a messenger called out loudly, ""Listen, you people who come from every nation! Pay attention, you who speak other languages! Here is what the king commands you to do." 
Daniel3:5 You will soon hear the sound of horns and flutes. You will hear zithers, lyres, harps and pipes. In fact, you will hear all kinds of music. When you do, you must fall down and worship the gold statue that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up." 
Daniel3:6 If you don't, you will be thrown into a blazing furnace right away.""" 
Daniel3:7 All of the people heard the sound of the horns and flutes. They heard the zithers, lyres, harps and other musical instruments. As soon as they did, they fell down and worshiped Nebuchadnezzar's gold statue. They had come from every nation and language." 
Daniel3:8 At that time some people who studied the heavens came forward. They spoke against the Jews. 
Daniel3:9 They said, ""King Nebuchadnezzar, may you live forever!" 
Daniel3:10 You commanded everyone to fall down and worship the gold statue. You told them to do it when they heard the horns, flutes, zithers, lyres, harps, pipes and other musical instruments." 
Daniel3:11 If they didn't, they would be thrown into a blazing furnace." 
Daniel3:12 But you have appointed some Jews to help Daniel govern Babylon and the towns around it. Their names are Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. They don't pay any attention to you, King Nebuchadnezzar. They don't serve your gods. And they refuse to worship the gold statue you have set up.""" 
Daniel3:13 Nebuchadnezzar burned with anger. He sent for Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. So they were brought to him." 
Daniel3:14 The king said to them, ""Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, is what I heard about you true? Don't you serve my gods? Don't you worship the gold statue I set up?" 
Daniel3:15 You will hear the horns, flutes, zithers, lyres, harps, pipes and other musical instruments. When you do, fall down and worship the statue I made. If you will, that's very good. But if you won't, you will be thrown at once into a blazing furnace. Then what god will be able to save you from my powerful hand?""" 
Daniel3:16 Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego replied to the king. They said, ""King Nebuchadnezzar, we don't need to talk about this anymore." 
Daniel3:17 We might be thrown into the blazing furnace. But the God we serve is able to bring us out of it alive. He will save us from your powerful hand. 
Daniel3:18 But we want you to know this. Even if we knew that our God wouldn't save us, we still wouldn't serve your gods. We wouldn't worship the gold statue you set up.""" 
Daniel3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar's anger burned against Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. The look on his face changed. And he ordered that the furnace be heated seven times hotter than usual." 
Daniel3:20 He also gave some of the strongest soldiers in his army a command. He ordered them to tie up Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. Then he told his men to throw them into the blazing furnace." 
Daniel3:21 So they were tied up. Then they were thrown into the furnace. They were wearing their robes, pants, turbans and other clothes." 
Daniel3:22 The king's command was carried out quickly. The furnace was so hot that its flames killed the soldiers who threw Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego into it." 
Daniel3:23 So the three men were firmly tied up. And they fell into the blazing furnace. 
Daniel3:24 Then King Nebuchadnezzar leaped to his feet. He was so amazed he asked his advisers, ""Didn't we tie three men up? Didn't we throw three men into the fire?"" ""Yes, we did,"" they replied." 
Daniel3:25 The king said, ""Look! I see four men walking around in the fire. They aren't tied up. And the fire hasn't even harmed them. The fourth man looks like a son of the gods.""" 
Daniel3:26 Then the king approached the opening of the blazing furnace. He shouted, ""Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, come out! You who serve the Most High God, come here!"" So they came out of the fire." 
Daniel3:27 The royal rulers, high officials, governors and advisers crowded around them. They saw that the fire hadn't harmed their bodies. Not one hair on their heads was burned. Their robes weren't burned either. And they didn't even smell like smoke." 
Daniel3:28 Then Nebuchadnezzar said, ""May the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego be praised! He has sent his angel and saved his servants. They trusted in him. They refused to obey my command. They were willing to give up their lives. They would rather die than serve or worship any god except their own God." 
Daniel3:29 No other god can save people that way. So I'm giving an order. No one from any nation or language can say anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. If they do, they'll be cut to pieces. And their houses will be turned into piles of trash.""" 
Daniel3:30 Then the king honored Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. He gave them higher positions in the city of Babylon and the towns around it." 
Daniel4:1 I, King Nebuchadnezzar, am writing this letter. I am sending it to you people from every nation and language in the whole world. May you have great success!" 
Daniel4:2 I am pleased to tell you what has happened. The Most High God has done miraculous signs and wonders for me. 
Daniel4:3 His miraculous signs are great. His wonders are mighty. His kingdom will last forever. His rule will never end. 
Daniel4:4 I was at home in my palace. I was content and very successful. 
Daniel4:5 But I had a dream that made me afraid. I was lying on my bed. Then dreams and visions passed through my mind. They terrified me. 
Daniel4:6 So I commanded that all of the wise men in Babylon be brought to me. I wanted them to tell me what my dream meant. 
Daniel4:7 Those who try to figure things out by using magic came. So did those who study the heavens. I told all of them what I had dreamed. But they couldn't tell me what it meant. 
Daniel4:8 Finally, Daniel came to me. He is called Belteshazzar, after the name of my god. The spirit of the holy gods is in him. I told him my dream." 
Daniel4:9 I said, ""Belteshazzar, you are chief of the magicians. I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you. No mystery is too hard for you to figure out. Here is my dream. Tell me what it means." 
Daniel4:10 Here are the visions I saw while I was lying on my bed. I looked up and saw a tree standing in the middle of the land. It was very tall. 
Daniel4:11 It had grown to be large and strong. Its top touched the sky. It could be seen anywhere on earth. 
Daniel4:12 Its leaves were beautiful. It had a lot of fruit on it. It provided enough food for people and animals. Under the tree, the wild animals found shade. The birds of the air lived in its branches. Every creature was fed from that tree." 
Daniel4:13 While I was still lying on my bed, I looked up. In my visions, I saw a holy messenger. He was coming down from heaven." 
Daniel4:14 He called out in a loud voice. He said, 'Cut the tree down. Break off its branches. Strip its leaves off. Scatter its fruit. Let the animals that are under it run away. Let the birds that are in its branches fly off." 
Daniel4:15 But leave the stump with its roots in the ground. Let it stay in the field. Put a band of iron and bronze around it.  'Let King Nebuchadnezzar become wet with the dew of heaven. Let him live like the animals among the plants of the earth. 
Daniel4:16 Let him no longer have the mind of a man. Instead, let him be given the mind of an animal. Let him stay that way until seven periods of time pass by." 
Daniel4:17  'The decision is announced by holy messengers. So all who are alive will know that the Most High God is King. He rules over all of the kingdoms of men. He gives them to anyone he wants. Sometimes he puts the least important men in charge of them.' 
Daniel4:18 That's the dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, had. Now tell me what it means, Belteshazzar. None of the wise men in my kingdom can explain it to me. But you can. After all, the spirit of the holy gods is in you.""" 
Daniel4:19 Daniel, who was also called Belteshazzar, was very bewildered for a while. His thoughts terrified him. So the king said, ""Belteshazzar, don't let the dream or its meaning make you afraid."" Belteshazzar answered, ""My master, I wish the dream were about your enemies! I wish its meaning had to do with them!" 
Daniel4:20 You saw a tree. It grew to be large and strong. Its top touched the sky. It could be seen from anywhere on earth. 
Daniel4:21 Its leaves were beautiful. It had a lot of fruit on it. It provided enough food for people and animals. Under the tree, the wild animals found shade. The birds of the air lived in its branches." 
Daniel4:22 My king, you are that tree! You have become great and strong. Your greatness has grown until it reaches the sky. Your rule has spread to all parts of the earth." 
Daniel4:23 My king, you saw a holy messenger. He came down from heaven. He said, 'Cut the tree down. Destroy it. But leave the stump with its roots in the ground. Let it stay in the field. Put a band of iron and bronze around it. Let King Nebuchadnezzar become wet with the dew of heaven. Let him live like the wild animals. Let him stay that way until seven periods of time pass by.'" 
Daniel4:24 My king and master, here is what your dream means. The Most High God has given an order against you." 
Daniel4:25 You will be driven away from people. You will live like the wild animals. You will eat grass just as cattle do. You will become wet with the dew of heaven. Seven periods of time will pass by for you. Then you will recognize that the Most High God rules over all of the kingdoms of men. He gives them to anyone he wants. 
Daniel4:26 But he gave a command to leave the stump of the tree along with its roots. That means your kingdom will be given back to you. It will happen when you recognize that the God of heaven rules. 
Daniel4:27 So, my king, I hope you will accept my advice. Stop being sinful. Do what is right. Give up your evil practices. Show kindness to those who are being treated badly. Then perhaps things will continue to go well with you.""" 
Daniel4:28 All of that happened to me. 
Daniel4:29 It took place twelve months later. I was walking on the roof of my palace in Babylon. 
Daniel4:30 I said, ""Isn't this the great Babylon I have built as a place for my royal palace? I used my mighty power to build it. It shows how glorious my majesty is.""" 
Daniel4:31 I was still speaking when a voice was heard from heaven. It said, ""King Nebuchadnezzar, here is what has been ordered concerning you. Your royal authority has been taken from you." 
Daniel4:32 You will be driven away from people. You will live like the wild animals. You will eat grass just as cattle do. Seven periods of time will pass by for you. Then you will recognize that the Most High God rules over all of the kingdoms of men. He gives them to anyone he wants. 
Daniel4:33 What had been said about me came true at once. I was driven away from people. I ate grass just as cattle do. My body became wet with the dew of heaven. I stayed that way until my hair grew like the feathers of an eagle. My nails became like the claws of a bird. 
Daniel4:34 At the end of that time I, Nebuchadnezzar, looked up toward heaven. My mind became clear again. Then I praised the Most High God. I gave honor and glory to the One who lives forever. His rule will last forever. His kingdom will never end." 
Daniel4:35 He considers all of the nations on earth to be nothing. He does as he pleases with the powers of heaven. He does what he wants with the nations of the earth. No one can hold his hand back. No one can say to him, ""What have you done?""" 
Daniel4:36 My honor and glory were returned to me when my mind became clear again. The glory of my kingdom was given back to me. My advisers and nobles came to me. And I was put back on my throne. I became even greater than I had been before. 
Daniel4:37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, give praise and honor and glory to the King of heaven. Everything he does is right. All of his ways are fair. He is able to bring down those who live proudly." 
Daniel5:1 King Belshazzar gave a big dinner. He invited a thousand of his nobles to it. He drank wine with them. 
Daniel5:2 While Belshazzar was drinking his wine, he gave orders to his servants. He commanded them to bring in some gold and silver cups. They were the cups his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple in Jerusalem. Belshazzar had them brought in so everyone could drink from them. That included the king himself, his nobles, his wives and his concubines." 
Daniel5:3 So the servants brought in the gold cups that had been taken from God's temple in Jerusalem. The king and his nobles drank from them. So did his wives and concubines. 
Daniel5:4 As they drank the wine, they praised their gods. The statues of those gods were made out of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood or stone." 
Daniel5:5 Suddenly the fingers of a human hand appeared. They wrote something on the plaster of the palace wall. It happened near the lampstand. The king watched the hand as it wrote. 
Daniel5:6 His face turned pale. He became so afraid that his knees knocked together. His legs couldn't hold him up any longer. 
Daniel5:7 The king sent for those who try to figure things out by using magic. He also sent for those who study the heavens. All of them were wise men in Babylon. He ordered that they be brought to him. He said to them, ""I want one of you to read this writing and tell me what it means. If you do, you will be dressed in purple clothes. A gold chain will be put around your neck. And you will be made the third highest ruler in the kingdom.""" 
Daniel5:8 Then all of the king's wise men came in. But they couldn't read the writing. They couldn't tell him what it meant. 
Daniel5:9 So King Belshazzar became even more terrified. His face grew more pale. And his nobles were bewildered. 
Daniel5:10 The queen heard the king and his nobles talking. So she came into the dining hall. King Belshazzar, may you live forever!"" she said. ""Don't be afraid! Don't look so pale!" 
Daniel5:11 I know a man in your kingdom who has the spirit of the holy gods in him. He has understanding and wisdom and good sense just like the gods. That was discovered when your father Nebuchadnezzar was king. Nebuchadnezzar appointed him chief of those who tried to figure things out by using magic. He also put him in charge of those who studied the heavens. 
Daniel5:12 The man's name is Daniel. Your father called him Belteshazzar. He has a clever mind and knowledge and understanding. He is also able to tell what dreams mean. He can explain riddles and solve hard problems. Send for him. He'll tell you what the writing means. 
Daniel5:13 So Daniel was brought to the king. The king said to him, ""Are you Daniel? Are you one of the prisoners my father the king brought here from Judah?" 
Daniel5:14 I have heard that the spirit of the gods is in you. I've also heard that you have understanding and good sense and special wisdom. 
Daniel5:15 The wise men and those who practice magic were brought to me. They were asked to read this writing and tell me what it means. But they couldn't. 
Daniel5:16 I have heard that you are able to explain things and solve hard problems. I hope you can read this writing and tell me what it means. If you can, you will be dressed in purple clothes. A gold chain will be put around your neck. And you will be made the third highest ruler in the kingdom.""" 
Daniel5:17 Then Daniel answered the king. He said, ""You can keep your gifts for yourself. You can give your rewards to someone else. But I will read the writing for you. I'll tell you what it means." 
Daniel5:18 King Belshazzar, the Most High God was good to your father Nebuchadnezzar. He gave him authority and greatness and glory and honor." 
Daniel5:19 God gave him a high position. Then all of the people from every nation and language became afraid of the king. He put to death anyone he wanted to. He spared anyone he wanted to spare. He gave high positions to anyone he wanted to. And he brought down anyone he wanted to bring down. 
Daniel5:20 But his heart became very stubborn and proud. So he was removed from his royal throne. His glory was stripped away from him. 
Daniel5:21 He was driven away from people. He was given the mind of an animal. He lived like the wild donkeys. He ate grass just as cattle do. His body became wet with the dew of heaven. He stayed that way until he recognized that the Most High God rules over all of the kingdoms of men. He puts anyone he wants to in charge of them. 
Daniel5:22 But you knew all of that, Belshazzar. After all, you are Nebuchadnezzar's son. In spite of that, you are still proud." 
Daniel5:23 You have taken your stand against the Lord of heaven. You had your servants bring cups from his temple to you. You and your nobles drank wine from them. So did your wives and concubines. You praised your gods. The statues of those gods are made out of silver, gold, bronze, iron, wood or stone. They can't see or hear or understand anything. But you didn't honor the God who holds in his hand your very life and everything you do." 
Daniel5:24 So he sent the hand that wrote on the wall. 
Daniel5:25 Here is what was written. mene, mene, tekel, parsin" 
Daniel5:26 And here is what those words mean. #1 means that God has limited the time of your rule. He has brought it to an end. 
Daniel5:27 #1 means that you have been weighed on scales. And you haven't measured up to God's standard. 
Daniel5:28 #1 means that your authority over your kingdom will be taken away from you. It will be given to the Medes and Persians. 
Daniel5:29 Then Belshazzar commanded his servants to dress Daniel in purple clothes. So they did. They put a gold chain around his neck. And he was made the third highest ruler in the kingdom. 
Daniel5:30 That very night Belshazzar, the king of Babylonia, was killed." 
Daniel5:31 His kingdom was given to Darius the Mede. Darius was 62 years old. 
Daniel6:1 It pleased Darius to appoint 120 royal rulers over his entire kingdom. 
Daniel6:2 He placed three leaders over them. One of the leaders was Daniel. The royal rulers were made accountable to the three leaders. Then the king wouldn't lose any of his wealth. 
Daniel6:3 Daniel did a better job than the other two leaders or any of the royal rulers. He was an unusually good and able man. So the king planned to put him in charge of the whole kingdom. 
Daniel6:4 But the other two leaders and the royal rulers heard about it. So they looked for a reason to bring charges against Daniel. They tried to find something wrong with the way he ran the government. But they weren't able to. They couldn't find any fault with his work. He could always be trusted. He never did anything wrong. And he always did what he was supposed to. 
Daniel6:5 Finally those men said, ""It's almost impossible for us to come up with a reason to bring charges against this man Daniel. If we do, it will have to be in connection with the law of his God.""" 
Daniel6:6 So the two leaders and the royal rulers went as a group to the king. They said, ""King Darius, may you live forever!" 
Daniel6:7 All of the royal leaders, high officials, royal rulers, advisers and governors want to make a suggestion. We've agreed that you should give an order. And you should make sure it's obeyed. Here is the command you should give. King Darius, during the next 30 days don't let any of your people pray to any god or man except to you. If they do, throw them into the lions' den." 
Daniel6:8 Now give the order. Write it down in the laws of the Medes and Persians. Then it can't be changed. 
Daniel6:9 So King Darius put the order in writing. 
Daniel6:10 Daniel found out that the king had signed the order. In spite of that, he did just as he had always done before. He went home to his upstairs room. Its windows opened toward Jerusalem. He went to his room three times a day to pray. He got down on his knees and gave thanks to his God." 
Daniel6:11 Some of the other royal officials went to where Daniel was staying. They saw him praying and asking God for help. 
Daniel6:12 So they went to the king. They spoke to him about his royal order. They said, ""King Darius, didn't you sign an official order? It said that for the next 30 days none of your people could pray to any god or man except to you. If they did, they would be thrown into the lions' den."" The king answered, ""The order must still be obeyed. It's one of the laws of the Medes and Persians. So it can't be changed.""" 
Daniel6:13 Then they spoke to the king again. They said, ""Daniel is one of the prisoners from Judah. He doesn't pay any attention to you, King Darius. He doesn't obey the order you put in writing. He still prays to his God three times a day.""" 
Daniel6:14 When the king heard that, he was very upset. He didn't want Daniel to be harmed in any way. Until sunset, he did everything he could to save him." 
Daniel6:15 Then the men went as a group to the king. They said to him, ""King Darius, remember that no order or law you make can be changed. That's what the laws of the Medes and Persians require.""" 
Daniel6:16 So the king gave the order. Daniel was brought out and thrown into the lions' den. The king said to him, ""You always serve your God faithfully. So may he save you!""" 
Daniel6:17 A stone was brought and placed over the opening of the den. The king sealed it with his own special ring. He also sealed it with the rings of his nobles. Then nothing could be done to help Daniel. 
Daniel6:18 The king returned to his palace. He didn't eat anything that night. He didn't ask for anything to be brought to him for his enjoyment. And he couldn't sleep. 
Daniel6:19 As soon as the sun began to rise, the king got up. He hurried to the lions' den." 
Daniel6:20 When he got near it, he called out to Daniel. His voice was filled with great concern. He said, ""Daniel! You serve the living God. You always serve him faithfully. So has he been able to save you from the lions?""" 
Daniel6:21 Daniel answered, ""My king, may you live forever!" 
Daniel6:22 My God sent his angel. And his angel shut the mouths of the lions. They haven't hurt me at all. That's because I haven't done anything wrong in God's sight. I've never done anything wrong to you either, my king.""" 
Daniel6:23 The king was filled with joy. He ordered his servants to lift Daniel out of the den. So they did. They didn't see any wounds on him. That's because he had trusted in his God. 
Daniel6:24 Then the king gave another order. The men who had said bad things about Daniel were brought in. They were thrown into the lions' den. So were their wives and children. Before they hit the bottom of the den, the lions attacked them. And the lions crushed all of their bones." 
Daniel6:25 Then King Darius wrote to the people from every nation and language in the whole world. He said, ""May you have great success!" 
Daniel6:26 I order people in every part of my kingdom to respect and honor Daniel's God. He is the living God. He will live forever. His kingdom will not be destroyed. His rule will never end. 
Daniel6:27 He sets people free and saves them. He does miraculous signs and wonders. He does them in the heavens and on the earth. He has saved Daniel from the power of the lions. 
Daniel6:28 So Daniel had success while Darius was king. Things went well with him during the rule of Cyrus, the Persian." 
Daniel7:1 It was the first year that Belshazzar was king of Babylon. Daniel had a dream. He was lying on his bed. In his dream, visions passed through his mind. He wrote down what he saw." 
Daniel7:2 Daniel said, ""I had a vision at night. I looked up and saw the four winds of heaven. They were stirring up the Mediterranean Sea." 
Daniel7:3 Four large animals came up out of the sea. Each one was different from the others. 
Daniel7:4 The first animal was like a lion. It had the wings of an eagle. I watched until its wings were torn off. Then it was lifted up from the ground. It stood on two feet like a man. And a man's heart was given to it. 
Daniel7:5 I saw a second animal. It looked like a bear. It was raised up on one of its sides. And it had three ribs between its teeth. It was told, 'Get up! Eat meat until you are full!'" 
Daniel7:6 After that, I saw another animal. It looked like a leopard. On its back were four wings like the wings of a bird. It had four heads. And it was given authority to rule." 
Daniel7:7 After that, in my vision I looked up and saw a fourth animal. It was terrifying and very powerful. It had large iron teeth. It crushed those it attacked and ate them up. It stomped on anything that was left. It was different from the other animals. And it had ten horns." 
Daniel7:8 I thought about the horns. Then I saw another horn. It was a little one. It grew up among the other horns. Three of the first horns were pulled up by their roots to make room for it. The little horn had eyes like the eyes of a man. Its mouth was always bragging. 
Daniel7:9 As I watched, ""thrones were set in place. The Eternal God took his seat. His clothes were as white as snow. The hair on his head was white like wool. His throne was blazing with fire. And flames were all around its wheels." 
Daniel7:10 A river of fire was flowing. It was coming out from in front of God. Thousands and thousands of angels served him. Millions of them stood in front of him. The court was seated. And the books were opened. 
Daniel7:11 Then I continued to watch because of the way the horn was bragging. I kept looking until the fourth animal was killed. I watched until its body was destroyed. It was thrown into the blazing fire. 
Daniel7:12 The authority of the other animals had been stripped away from them. But they were allowed to live for a period of time. 
Daniel7:13 In my vision I saw One who looked like a son of man. He was coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the Eternal God. He was led right up to him. 
Daniel7:14 And he was given authority, glory and a kingdom. People from every nation and language worshiped him. His authority will last forever. It will not pass away. His kingdom will never be destroyed." 
Daniel7:15 My spirit was troubled. The visions that passed through my mind upset me. 
Daniel7:16 I approached an angel who was standing there. I asked him what all of those things really meant. So he explained everything to me. He told me what it meant. He said," 
Daniel7:17 'The four large animals stand for four kingdoms. The kingdoms will appear on the earth. 
Daniel7:18 But the holy people of the Most High God will receive the kingdom. They will possess it forever. It will belong to them for ever and ever.' 
Daniel7:19 Then I wanted to know what the fourth animal stood for. It was different from the others. It was the most terrifying of all. It had iron teeth and bronze claws. It crushed those it attacked and ate them up. It stomped on anything that was left. 
Daniel7:20 I also wanted to know about the ten horns on its head. And I wanted to know about the other horn that grew up later. It caused three of the ten horns to fall out. It appeared to be stronger than the others. It had eyes. And its mouth was always bragging. 
Daniel7:21 I saw that the horn was at war with God's people. It was winning the battle over them. 
Daniel7:22 But then the Eternal God came. He decided in favor of his holy people. So the time came when the kingdom was given to them. 
Daniel7:23 Here's how the angel explained it to me. He said, 'The fourth animal stands for a fourth kingdom. It will appear on earth. It will be different from the other kingdoms. It will eat up the whole earth. It will stomp on it and crush it." 
Daniel7:24 The ten horns stand for ten kings. They will come from the fourth kingdom.  'After them another king will appear. He will be different from the earlier ones. He'll bring three kings under his control. 
Daniel7:25 He'll speak against the Most High God. He'll treat God's people badly. He will try to change the times and laws that were given by God. God's people will be handed over to him for three and a half years. 
Daniel7:26  'But the court will open. And the power of that king will be taken away from him. It will be completely destroyed forever. 
Daniel7:27 Then the authority, power and greatness of all of the kingdoms on earth will be handed over to the people of the Most High God. His kingdom will last forever. Every ruler will worship and obey him.'" 
Daniel7:28 That's all I saw. My thoughts deeply troubled me. My face turned pale. But I kept those things to myself. 
Daniel8:1 It was the third year of King Belshazzar's rule. After the vision that had already appeared to me, I had another one." 
Daniel8:2 In my vision I saw myself in the city of Susa. It has high walls around it. It is in the land of Elam. In the vision I was beside the Ulai Waterway. 
Daniel8:3 I looked up and saw a ram that had two horns. He was standing beside the waterway. His horns were long. One of them was longer than the other. But it grew up later. 
Daniel8:4 I watched the ram as he charged toward the west. He also charged toward the north and the south. No animal could stand up against him. Not one of them could save anyone from his power. He did as he pleased. And he became great. 
Daniel8:5 I was thinking about all of that. Then a goat suddenly came from the west. He had a large horn between his eyes. He raced across the whole earth without even touching the ground. 
Daniel8:6 He came toward the ram that had the two horns. It was the ram I had seen standing beside the waterway. The goat was burning with anger. He charged at the ram. 
Daniel8:7 I saw him attack the ram with mighty force. He struck the ram and broke his two horns. The ram didn't have the power to stand up against him. The goat knocked him to the ground and stomped on him. No one could save the ram from his power. 
Daniel8:8 The goat became very great. But when his power was at its greatest, his large horn was broken off. In its place four large horns grew up toward the four winds of heaven." 
Daniel8:9 Out of one of the four horns came another horn. It started small but became more and more powerful. It grew to the south and to the east and toward the beautiful land of Israel. 
Daniel8:10 It grew until it reached the stars in the sky. It threw some of them down to the earth. And it stomped on them. 
Daniel8:11 It set itself up to be as great as God. He is the Prince of the heavenly army. It took the daily sacrifices away from him. And his temple in Jerusalem was brought low. 
Daniel8:12 Because many of God's people refused to obey him, they were handed over to the horn. The daily sacrifices were also given over to it. It was successful no matter what it did. And the true worship of God was thrown down to the ground." 
Daniel8:13 Then I heard a holy angel speaking. Another holy angel spoke to him. He asked, ""How long will it take for the vision to come true? The daily sacrifices will be stopped. Those who refuse to obey God will be destroyed. The temple will be handed over to an enemy. And some of the stars will be stomped on.""" 
Daniel8:14 One of the holy angels said to me, ""It will take 2,300 evenings and mornings. Then the temple will be made holy again.""" 
Daniel8:15 I was watching the vision. And I was trying to understand it. Then I saw someone who looked like a man. 
Daniel8:16 I heard a voice from the Ulai Waterway. It called out, ""Gabriel, tell Daniel what his vision means.""" 
Daniel8:17 Gabriel came close to where I was standing. I was terrified and fell down flat with my face toward the ground. He said to me, ""Son of man, I want you to understand that the vision tells about the time of the end.""" 
Daniel8:18 While he was speaking to me, I was sound asleep. I lay with my face toward the ground. Then he touched me. He raised me to my feet." 
Daniel8:19 He said, ""I am going to tell you what will happen later. It will take place when God is angry. The vision tells about the appointed time of the end." 
Daniel8:20 You saw a ram that had two horns. It stands for the kings of Media and Persia. 
Daniel8:21 The goat stands for the king of Greece. The large horn between his eyes is the first king. 
Daniel8:22 Four horns took its place when it was broken off. They stand for four kingdoms that will come from his nation. But those kingdoms will not be as powerful as his. 
Daniel8:23 Toward the end of their rule, those who refuse to obey God will become completely evil. Then another king will appear. He will have a mean-looking face. He will be a master at making clever plans." 
Daniel8:24 He will become very strong. But he will not get that way by his own power. People will be amazed at the way he destroys everything. He will be successful no matter what he does. He will destroy the mighty men and the holy people. 
Daniel8:25 He will tell lies in order to succeed. He will think he is more important than anyone else. When people feel safe, he will destroy many of them. He will stand up against the greatest Prince of all. Then he will be destroyed. But he will not be killed by human beings." 
Daniel8:26 The vision of the evenings and mornings that has been given to you is true. But seal up the vision. It tells about a time far off. 
Daniel8:27 I was worn out. I lay sick for several days. Then I got up and returned to my work for the king. The vision bewildered me. I couldn't understand it. 
Daniel9:1 It was the first year that Darius was king of Babylonia. He was from Media and was the son of Xerxes. 
Daniel9:2 In that year I learned from the Scriptures that Jerusalem would remain destroyed for 70 years. That was what the Lord had told the prophet Jeremiah. 
Daniel9:2 In that year I learned from the Scriptures that Jerusalem would remain destroyed for 70 years. That was what the Lord had told the prophet Jeremiah. 
Daniel9:3 So I prayed to the Lord God. I begged him. I made many appeals to him. I didn't eat anything. I put on black clothes. And I sat down in ashes. 
Daniel9:4 I prayed to the Lord my God. I admitted that we had sinned. I said, ""Lord, you are a great and wonderful God. You keep the covenant you made with all those who love you and obey your commands. You show them your love." 
Daniel9:5 We have sinned and done what is wrong. We have been evil. We have refused to obey you. We have turned away from your commands and laws. 
Daniel9:6 We haven't listened to your servants the prophets. They spoke in your name to our kings and princes. They also brought your message to all of our people in the land. 
Daniel9:7 Lord, you always do what is right. But we are covered with shame today. We are the people of Judah and Jerusalem. All of us are Israelites, no matter where we live. We are now living in many countries. You scattered us among the nations because we weren't faithful to you." 
Daniel9:8 Lord, we and our kings and princes and people are covered with shame. We have sinned against you." 
Daniel9:9 You are the Lord our God. You show us your tender love. You forgive us. But we have turned against you. 
Daniel9:10 You are the Lord our God. But we haven't obeyed you. We haven't kept the laws you gave us through your servants the prophets. 
Daniel9:11 All of the people of Israel have broken your law and turned away from it. They have refused to obey you. Curses and warnings are written down in the Law of Moses. He was your servant. Those curses have been poured out on us. That's because we have sinned against you. 
Daniel9:12 The warnings you gave us and our rulers have come true. You have brought great trouble on us. Nothing like what has been done to Jerusalem has ever happened anywhere else on earth. 
Daniel9:13 The curses that are written in the Law of Moses have fallen on us. We have received nothing but trouble. You are the Lord our God. But we haven't asked for your favor. We haven't turned away from our sins. We've refused to pay attention to the laws you gave us. 
Daniel9:14 Lord, you didn't hold back from bringing this trouble on us. You always do what is right. But we haven't obeyed you." 
Daniel9:15 Lord our God, you used your mighty hand to bring your people out of Egypt. You made a name for yourself. It is still great to this very day. But we have sinned. We've done what is wrong." 
Daniel9:16 Lord, you saved your people before. So turn your burning anger away from Jerusalem again. After all, it is your city. It's your holy mountain. All those who live around us laugh at Jerusalem and your people. That's because we have sinned. Our people before us did evil things too." 
Daniel9:17 Our God, hear my prayers. Pay attention to the appeals I make to you. Look with favor on your temple that has been destroyed. Do it for your own honor." 
Daniel9:18 Our God, please listen to us. The city that belongs to you has been destroyed. Open your eyes and see it. We aren't asking you to answer our prayers because we are godly. Instead, we're asking you to do it because you love us so much." 
Daniel9:19 Lord, please listen! Lord, please forgive us! Lord, hear our prayers! Take action for your own honor. Our God, please don't wait. Your city and your people belong to you.""" 
Daniel9:20 I was speaking and praying. I was admitting that I and my people Israel had sinned. I was making my appeal to the Lord my God concerning his holy mountain of Zion. 
Daniel9:21 While I was still praying, Gabriel came to me. I had seen him in my earlier vision. He flew over to me very quickly. It was about the time when the evening sacrifice is offered." 
Daniel9:22 He helped me understand. He said, ""Daniel, I have come now to give you a good knowledge and understanding of these things." 
Daniel9:23 You are highly respected. So as soon as you began to pray, the Lord gave you an answer. I have come to tell you what it is. Here is how you must understand the vision." 
Daniel9:24 The Lord has appointed 70 'weeks' for your people and your holy city. During that time, acts against God's law will be stopped. Sin will come to an end. And the evil things people do will be paid for. Then everyone will always do what is right. Everything that has been made known in visions and prophecies will come true. And the Most Holy Room in the temple will be anointed." 
Daniel9:25 Here is what I want you to know and understand. There will be seven 'weeks.' Then there will be 62 'weeks.' The seven 'weeks' will begin when an order is given to rebuild Jerusalem and make it like new again. At the end of the 62 'weeks,' the Anointed King will come. Jerusalem will have streets and a water system when it is rebuilt. But that will be done in times of trouble." 
Daniel9:26 After the 62 'weeks,' the Anointed King will be cut off. His followers will desert him. And everything he has will be taken away from him. The army of the ruler who will come will destroy the city and the temple. The end will come like a flood. War will continue until the end. The Lord has ordered that many places be destroyed." 
Daniel9:27 A covenant will be put into effect with many people for one 'week.' In the middle of the 'week' sacrifices and offerings will come to an end. In one part of the temple a hated thing that destroys will be set up. It will remain until the Lord brings the end he has ordered. 
Daniel10:1 It was the third year that Cyrus, the king of Persia, ruled over Babylonia. At that time I was living in Babylon. There the people called me Belteshazzar. A message came to me from God. It was true. It was about a great war. I had a vision that showed me what it meant." 
Daniel10:2 At that time I was very sad for three weeks. 
Daniel10:3 I didn't eat any rich food. No meat or wine touched my lips. I didn't use any lotions at all until the three weeks were over. 
Daniel10:4 I was standing on the bank of the great Tigris River. It was the 24th day of the first month. 
Daniel10:5 I looked up and saw a man who was dressed in linen clothes. A belt that was made out of the finest gold was around his waist. 
Daniel10:6 His body gleamed like chrysolite. His face shone like lightning. His eyes were like flaming torches. His arms and legs were as bright as polished bronze. And his voice was like the sound of a large crowd. 
Daniel10:7 I was the only one who saw the vision. The men who were there with me didn't see it. But they were so terrified that they ran and hid. 
Daniel10:8 So I was left alone as I was watching that great vision. I felt very weak. My face turned as pale as death. And I was helpless. 
Daniel10:9 Then I heard the man speak. As I listened to him, I fell sound asleep. My face was toward the ground." 
Daniel10:10 A hand touched me. It pulled me up on my hands and knees. I began to tremble with fear. 
Daniel10:11 The man said, ""Daniel, you are highly respected. Think carefully about what I am going to say to you. And stand up. God has sent me to you."" When he said that, I trembled as I stood up." 
Daniel10:12 He continued, ""Do not be afraid, Daniel. You decided to get more understanding. You went without food as you worshiped your God. Since the first day you did those things, your words were heard. I have come to give you an answer." 
Daniel10:13 But the prince of Persia opposed me for 21 days. Then Michael came to help me. He is one of the leaders of the angels. He helped me win the battle over the king of Persia. 
Daniel10:14 Now I have come to explain the vision to you. I will tell you what will happen to your people. The vision shows what will take place in days to come. 
Daniel10:15 While he was telling me those things, I bowed with my face toward the ground. I wasn't able to speak." 
Daniel10:16 Then someone who looked like a man touched my lips. I opened my mouth. I began to speak to the one who was standing in front of me. I said, ""My master, I'm greatly troubled because of the vision I've seen. And I'm helpless." 
Daniel10:17 How can I talk with you? I feel very weak. In fact, I can hardly breathe.""" 
Daniel10:18 The one who looked like a man touched me again. He gave me strength. 
Daniel10:19 Do not be afraid,"" he said. ""You are highly respected. May peace be with you! Be strong now. Be strong."" When he spoke to me, I became stronger. I said, ""Speak, my master. You have given me strength.""" 
Daniel10:20 So he said, ""Do you know why I have come to you? Soon I will return to fight against the prince of Persia. When I go, the prince of Greece will come." 
Daniel10:21 But first I will tell you what is written in the Book of Truth. No one gives me any help against those princes except Michael. He is your leader. 
Daniel11:1 I stepped forward to help him and keep him safe. It was the first year that Darius, the Mede, was king." 
Daniel11:2 Now then, what I'm about to tell you is true. Three more kings will appear in Persia. Then a fourth one will rule. He will be much richer than all of the others. He will use his wealth to gain power. And he will stir up everyone against the kingdom of Greece." 
Daniel11:3 After him, a mighty king will appear. He will rule with great power. He will do as he pleases." 
Daniel11:4 Not long after his rule ends, his kingdom will be broken up. It will be divided up into four parts. His children will not receive it when he dies. And it will not be as strong as his kingdom. It will be pulled up by the roots. And it will be given to others." 
Daniel11:5 The king of Egypt will become strong. But one of his commanders will become even stronger. He will rule over his own kingdom with great power. 
Daniel11:6 After many years, the two kingdoms will join forces. The daughter of the next king of Egypt will go to the king of Syria. She will join forces with him. But she will not hold on to her power. And he and his power will not last either. In those days she and her attendants will be put to death. Her father will die. So will the one who helped her." 
Daniel11:7 Someone from her family line will take her place. He will attack the army of the next king of Syria. Then he will enter his fort. He will fight against that army and win. 
Daniel11:8 He will take the metal statues of their gods. He will also take away their priceless articles of silver and gold. He will carry everything off to Egypt. For many years he will leave the king of Syria alone. 
Daniel11:9 That king will march into territory that was controlled by Egypt. Then he will return to his own country. 
Daniel11:10 His sons will prepare for war. They will gather a huge army. It will sweep along like a mighty flood. It will fight its way as far as one of the Egyptian forts. 
Daniel11:11 Another king of Egypt will march out with mighty force. He will fight against the next king of Syria. That king will gather a huge army. But it will lose the battle. 
Daniel11:12 His soldiers will be carried off. Then the king of Egypt will be filled with pride. He will kill many thousands of soldiers. But his success will not last. 
Daniel11:13 The king of Syria will bring another army together. It will be larger than the first one. After several years, he will march out with a huge army. It will have everything it needs for battle." 
Daniel11:14 In those times many people will rise up against the next king of Egypt. Lawless men in your own nation will refuse to obey him. That is what you saw in your vision. But they will not succeed. 
Daniel11:15 Then the king of Syria will go to a certain city that has high walls around it. He will build ramps against them. And he will capture that city. The forces of Egypt will not have the power to stop him. Even their best troops will not be strong enough to stand up against him. 
Daniel11:16 He will do anything he wants to. No one will be able to stand up against him. He will take over the beautiful land of Israel. And he will have the power to destroy it. 
Daniel11:17 He will decide to come with the might of his entire kingdom. He will join forces with the king of Egypt. And he will give him his daughter to become his wife. He will do it in order to take control of Egypt. But his plans will not succeed. They will not help him. 
Daniel11:18 Then he will turn his attention to the lands along the Mediterranean coast. He will take over many of them. But a commander will put an end to his proud actions. He will turn his pride back on him. 
Daniel11:19 After that, the king of Syria will return to the forts in his own country. But he will trip and fall. And he will never be seen again." 
Daniel11:20 The next king after him will send someone out to collect taxes. The taxes will help maintain the glory of his kingdom. But in a few years the king will be destroyed. It will not happen because someone becomes angry with him or kills him in battle. 
Daniel11:21 Another king will take his place. Many people will hate him. He will not be honored as a king should be. He will lead an army into the kingdom when its people feel secure. He will make clever plans to capture it. 
Daniel11:22 Then he will sweep away a huge army. The army and a prince of the covenant will be destroyed. 
Daniel11:23 The king of Syria will make an agreement with that prince. But then he will not keep his word. He will rise to power with the help of only a few people. 
Daniel11:24 When the people in the richest areas feel secure, he will attack them. He will do what the kings before him could not do. And he will reward his followers with the goods and wealth he takes. He will make clever plans to take over the forts. But that will last for only a short time." 
Daniel11:25 He will stir up his strength and courage. With a large army he will go to war against the next king of Egypt. That king will fight against him with a huge and very powerful army. But he will not be able to stand up against him. So the plans of the king of Syria will succeed. 
Daniel11:26 The trusted advisers of the king of Egypt will try to destroy him. His army will be swept away. Many of his soldiers will be wounded or killed. 
Daniel11:27 The kings of Syria and Egypt will sit at the same table. But in their hearts they will plan to do what is evil. And they will tell lies to each other. But it will not do them any good. God will put an end to their plans at his appointed time. 
Daniel11:28 The king of Syria will return to his own country. He will go back there with great wealth. But he will make evil plans against the holy temple in Jerusalem. He will do a lot of harm to the temple and the people who worship there. Then he will return to his own country. 
Daniel11:29 At God's appointed time, the king of Syria will march south again. But this time things will turn out differently." 
Daniel11:30 Roman ships will oppose him. He will lose hope. Then he will turn back. He will take out his anger against the holy temple. And he will show favor to the Jews who desert it. 
Daniel11:31 His army will come and make the temple area 'unclean.' They will put a stop to the daily sacrifices. Then they will set up a hated thing that destroys. 
Daniel11:32 He will pretend to praise those who have broken the covenant. He will lead them to do what is evil. But the people who know their God will firmly oppose him. 
Daniel11:33 Those who are wise will teach many others. But for a while, some of the wise will be killed with swords. Others will be burned to death. Still others will be made prisoners. Or they will be robbed of everything they have." 
Daniel11:34 When that happens, they will receive a little help. Many who are not honest will join them." 
Daniel11:35 So some of the wise people will suffer. They will be made pure in the fire. They will be made spotless until the time of the end. It will still come at God's appointed time. 
Daniel11:36 A certain king will do as he pleases. He will honor himself. He will put himself above every god. He will say things that have never been heard before against the greatest God of all. He will have success until God is not angry anymore. What God has decided to do must take place. 
Daniel11:37 The king will not show any respect for the gods his people have always worshiped. He will not respect the one women long for. He will not have respect for any god. Instead, he will put himself above all of them." 
Daniel11:38 In place of them, he will worship a god of war. He will honor a god his people have not had anything to do with before. He will give gold and silver to that god. He will bring jewels and expensive gifts to it." 
Daniel11:39 He will attack the strongest forts. A new god will help him do it. He will greatly honor those who recognize him as their leader. He will make them rulers over many people. And he will give them land as a reward. 
Daniel11:40 A king in the south will go to war against him. It will happen at the time of the end. The king who will honor himself will rush out against him. He will come with chariots and horsemen. He will attack with a lot of ships. He will lead his army into many countries. He will sweep through them like a flood. 
Daniel11:41 He will also march into the beautiful land of Israel. Many countries will fall. But Edom, Moab and the leaders of Ammon will be saved from his mighty hand." 
Daniel11:42 His power will reach out into many countries. Even Egypt will not escape. 
Daniel11:43 He will gain control of all of Egypt's riches. He will take their gold and silver treasures. The people of Libya and Cush will be under his control. 
Daniel11:44 But reports from the east and the north will terrify him. He will burn with anger and march out to destroy many people and wipe them out. 
Daniel11:45 He will set up his royal tents. He will put them between the Mediterranean Sea and the beautiful holy mountain of Zion. But his end will come. And no one will help him. 
Daniel12:1 At that time Michael will appear. He is the great leader of the angels who guards your people. There will be a time of terrible suffering. Things will be worse than at any time since nations began. But at that time of suffering your people will be saved. Their names are written in the Book of Life. 
Daniel12:2 Huge numbers of people who lie dead in their graves will wake up. Some will rise up to life that will never end. Others will rise up to shame that will never end. 
Daniel12:3 Those who are wise will shine like the brightness of the sky. Those who lead many others to do what is right will be like the stars for ever and ever. 
Daniel12:4 But I want you to roll up the scroll, Daniel. Seal it until the time of the end. Many people will go here and there to increase their knowledge.""" 
Daniel12:5 Then I looked up and saw two other angels. One was on this side of the Tigris River. And one was on the other side. 
Daniel12:6 The man who was dressed in linen was above the waters of the river. One of the angels said to him, ""How long will it be before these amazing things come true?""" 
Daniel12:7 The man raised both hands toward heaven. I heard him take an oath in the name of the One who lives forever. He answered me, ""Three and a half years. Then the power of the holy people will be broken at last. And all of those things will come true.""" 
Daniel12:8 I heard what he said. But I didn't understand it. So I asked, ""My master, what will come of all of this?""" 
Daniel12:9 He answered, ""Go on your way, Daniel. The scroll is rolled up. It is sealed until the time of the end." 
Daniel12:10 Many people will be made pure in the fire. They will be made spotless. But sinful people will continue to be evil. Not one sinful person will understand. But those who are wise will. 
Daniel12:11 The daily sacrifices will be stopped. And the hated thing that destroys will be set up. After that, there will be 1,290 days." 
Daniel12:12 Blessed are those who wait for the 1,335 days and reach the end of them." 
Daniel12:13 Daniel, go on your way until the end. Your body will rest in the grave. Then at the end of the days you will rise from the dead. And you will receive what God has appointed for you.""" 
Hosea1:1 A message came to Hosea from the Lord. He was the son of Beeri. The message came while Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah were kings of Judah. It also came while Jeroboam was king of Israel. He was the son of Jehoash. Here is what Hosea said." 
Hosea1:2 The Lord began to speak through me. He said to me, ""Go. Get married to a woman who will commit adultery. Take as your own the children who will be born as a result of her adultery. Marry her because the people of the land are guilty of the worst kind of adultery. They have not been faithful to me.""" 
Hosea1:3 So I married Gomer. She was the daughter of Diblaim. Gomer became pregnant. And she had a son by me. 
Hosea1:4 Then the Lord said to me, ""Name him Jezreel. That is because I will soon punish Jehu's royal family. He killed many people at the city of Jezreel. So I will put an end to the kingdom of Israel." 
Hosea1:5 At that time I will break their military power. It will happen in the Valley of Jezreel. 
Hosea1:6 Gomer became pregnant again. She had a daughter. Then the Lord said to me, ""Name her Lo-Ruhamah. That is because I will no longer show love to the people of Israel. I will not forgive them anymore." 
Hosea1:7 But I will show love to the people of Judah. And I will save them. I will not use bows or swords or other weapons of war to do it. I will not save them by using horses and horsemen either. Instead, I will use my own power to save them. I am the Lord their God.""" 
Hosea1:8 Later, Gomer stopped nursing Lo-Ruhamah. After that, she had another son." 
Hosea1:9 Then the Lord said, ""Name him Lo-Ammi. That is because Israel is no longer my people. And I am no longer their God." 
Hosea1:10 But the time will come when the people of Israel will be like the sand on the seashore. It can't be measured or counted. Now it is said about them, 'You are not my people.' But at that time they will be called 'children of the living God.'" 
Hosea1:11 The people of Judah and Israel will be brought together again. They will appoint one leader. They will increase their numbers in the land. And Jezreel's day will be great. That is because I will plant Israel in the land again. 
Hosea2:1 People of Israel, call your brothers My People. And call your sisters My Loved Ones.""" 
Hosea2:2 I said to my children, ""Talk things over with your mother. Talk to her. She isn't acting like a wife to me anymore. She no longer treats me as her husband. Tell her to stop looking and acting like a prostitute. Tell her not to let her lovers lie on her breasts anymore." 
Hosea2:3 If she doesn't stop it, I will strip her naked. I'll make her as bare as she was on the day she was born. I'll make her like a desert. She will become like dry land. And I'll let her die of thirst.""" 
Hosea2:4 I won't show my love to Gomer's children. They are the children of other men. 
Hosea2:5 Their mother hasn't been faithful to me. She who became pregnant with them has brought shame on herself. She said, ""I will chase after my lovers. They give me my food and water. They provide me with wool and linen. They give me olive oil and wine.""" 
Hosea2:6 So I will block her path with bushes that have thorns. I'll build a wall around her. Then she can't go to her lovers. 
Hosea2:7 She will still chase after her lovers. But she won't catch them. She'll look for them. But she won't find them. Then she'll say, ""I'll go back to my husband. That's where I was at first. I was better off then than I am now.""" 
Hosea2:8 She wouldn't admit that I was the one who gave her everything she had. I provided her with grain, olive oil and fresh wine. I gave her plenty of silver and gold. But she used it to make statues of Baal." 
Hosea2:9 So I will take away my grain when it gets ripe. I'll take my fresh wine when it's ready. I'll take back my wool and my linen. I gave them to her to cover her naked body. 
Hosea2:10 So now I'll uncover her body. All of her lovers will see it. No one can stop me from punishing her. 
Hosea2:11 I will put a stop to the special times she celebrates. I'll bring an end to the feasts she celebrates each year. I'll stop her New Moon Feasts and her Sabbath days. I'll bring all of her appointed feasts to an end. 
Hosea2:12 I will destroy her vines and her fig trees. She said they were her pay from her lovers. I'll make them like clumps of bushes and weeds. Wild animals will eat them up. 
Hosea2:13 The Lord announces, ""Israel burned incense to the gods that were named after Baal. I will punish her for all of the times she did that. She decorated herself with rings and jewelry. Then she went after her lovers. But she forgot all about me." 
Hosea2:14 So now I am going to draw her back to me. I will lead her into the desert. There I will speak tenderly to her. 
Hosea2:15 I will give her back her vineyards. I will make the Valley of Achor a door of hope for her. Then she will love me, as she did when she was young. She will love me just as she did when she came up out of Egypt." 
Hosea2:16 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""Israel will call me My Husband. She will no longer call me My Master." 
Hosea2:17 She will no longer speak about the gods that are named after Baal. She will not pray to them for help anymore. 
Hosea2:18 At that time I will make a covenant for the good of my people. I will make it with the wild animals and the birds of the air. It will also be made with the creatures that move on the ground. I will remove bows and swords and other weapons of war from the land. Then my people can lie down in safety. 
Hosea2:19 I will make Israel my own. She will belong to me forever. I will do to her what is right and fair. I will love her tenderly. 
Hosea2:20 I will be faithful to her. And she will recognize me as the Lord. 
Hosea2:21 So at that time I will answer her,"" announces the Lord. ""I will command the skies to send rain on the earth." 
Hosea2:22 Then the earth will produce grain, olive oil and fresh wine. And Israel will be called Jezreel. That is because I will answer her prayers." 
Hosea2:23 I will plant her in the land for myself. I will show my love to the one I called Not My Loved One. I will say, 'You are my people' to those who were called Not My People. And they will say, 'You are my God.' """ 
Hosea3:1 The Lord said to me, ""Go. Show your love to your wife again. She is loved by another man. And she has committed adultery. But I want you to love her just as I love the people of Israel. They turn to other gods. And they love to offer raisin cakes to Baal and eat them. In spite of that, I love my people.""" 
Hosea3:2 So I bought Gomer for six ounces of silver and about ten bushels of barley. 
Hosea3:3 Then I told her, ""You must wait for me for a long time. You must not be a prostitute. You must not have sex with any man. And I will wait for you.""" 
Hosea3:4 So the people of Israel will live for a long time without a king or prince. They won't have sacrifices or sacred stones. They won't have sacred linen aprons or statues of family gods. 
Hosea3:5 After that, the people of Israel will return to the Lord their God. They will look to him and to a king from the family line of David. In the last days, they will tremble with fear as they come to the Lord. And they will receive his full blessing." 
Hosea4:1 People of Israel, listen to the Lord's message. He is bringing charges against you who live in Israel. He says, ""There is no faithfulness or love in the land. No one recognizes me as God." 
Hosea4:2 People call down curses on others. They tell lies and commit murder. They steal and commit adultery. They break all of my laws. They keep on spilling the blood of others. 
Hosea4:3 That is why the land is drying up. All those who live in it are getting weaker and weaker. The wild animals and the birds of the air are dying. So are the fish in the ocean. 
Hosea4:4 But you priests should not blame the people. You should not find fault with one another. After all, your people could also bring charges against you." 
Hosea4:5 You trip and fall day and night. And the prophets fall down along with you. So I will destroy your nation. She is the one who gave birth to you. 
Hosea4:6 My people are destroyed because they do not know me. You priests have refused to obey me. So I will refuse to accept you as my priests. You have not paid any attention to my law. So I will not let your children be my priests. 
Hosea4:7 The more priests there are, the more they sin against me. They have traded their glorious God for that shameful god Baal." 
Hosea4:8 They live off the sins of my people. And they want them to keep on sinning. 
Hosea4:9 So here is what I will do. I will punish people and priests alike. I will judge them because of their sinful lives. I will pay them back for the evil things they have done. 
Hosea4:10 My people will eat. But they will not have enough. They will have sex with prostitutes. But they will not have any children. That is because they have deserted me. 
Hosea4:11 They have sex with prostitutes. They drink old wine and fresh wine. When they do those things, it destroys their ability to understand." 
Hosea4:12 They ask a wooden statue of a god for advice. They expect to get answers from a stick of wood. They act like prostitutes. That leads them down the wrong path. I am their God. But they are not faithful to me. 
Hosea4:13 They offer sacrifices on the mountaintops. They burn offerings on the hills. They worship under oak, poplar and terebinth trees. The trees provide plenty of shade. So your daughters become prostitutes. And your daughters-in-law commit adultery." 
Hosea4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they become prostitutes. I will not judge your daughters-in-law when they commit adultery. After all, the men themselves have sex with sinful women. They offer sacrifices where temple prostitutes earn their living. People who can't understand will be destroyed!" 
Hosea4:15 Israel, you are not faithful to me. But I do not want Judah to become guilty too. ""My people, do not go to Gilgal to offer sacrifices. Do not go up to Bethel to worship other gods. Do not take an oath and say, 'You can be sure that the Lord is alive.'" 
Hosea4:16 The people of Israel are stubborn. They are as stubborn as a young cow. So how can I take care of them like lambs in a meadow? 
Hosea4:17 The people of Ephraim have joined themselves to other gods. And nothing can be done to help them. 
Hosea4:18 They continue to be unfaithful to me even when their drinks are gone. And their rulers love to do shameful things. 
Hosea4:19 A windstorm will blow all of them away. And their sacrifices will bring shame on them. 
Hosea5:1 Listen to me, you priests! Pay attention, people of Israel! Listen, you members of the royal family! Here is my decision against you. You have been like a trap at Mizpah. You have been like a net spread out on Mount Tabor." 
Hosea5:2 You refuse to obey me. You offer sacrifices to other gods. So I will punish all of you. 
Hosea5:3 People of Ephraim, I know all about you. What you are doing is not hidden from me. Now you have joined yourselves to other gods. You have made yourselves 'unclean.'" 
Hosea5:4 You can't return to me because you have done so many evil things. In your hearts you long to act like prostitutes. You do not recognize me as the Lord. 
Hosea5:5 Israel, your pride witnesses that you are guilty. People of Ephraim, you trip and fall because you have sinned. Judah, you fall down along with them." 
Hosea5:6 Israel, you will come to worship me. You will bring your animals to offer as sacrifices. But you will not find me. I have turned away from you." 
Hosea5:7 You are not faithful to me. Your children do not belong to me. The way you act at your New Moon Feasts will destroy you and your fields. 
Hosea5:8 My people, blow trumpets in Gibeah! Blow horns in Ramah! Shout the battle cry in Bethel! Say to Benjamin, 'The Assyrian army is coming!'" 
Hosea5:9 People of Ephraim, you will be completely destroyed when it is time for me to punish you. You can be sure it will happen. I am announcing it among your tribes." 
Hosea5:10 Judah, your leaders have stolen some land. They have moved their borders farther north. So I will pour out my anger on you like a flood of water." 
Hosea5:11 Ephraim, you will soon be crushed. The Assyrians will stomp all over you. It will happen because you have made up your minds to chase after other gods." 
Hosea5:12 Ephraim, I will be like a moth to you. Judah, I will cause you to rot away." 
Hosea5:13 Ephraim, you saw how sick you were. Judah, you saw that you were wounded. Ephraim, you turned to Assyria for help. You sent gifts to the great King Tiglath-Pileser. But he is not able to make you well. He can't heal your wounds." 
Hosea5:14 Ephraim, I will be like a lion to you. Judah, I will attack you like a powerful lion. I will tear you to pieces. I will drag you off. Then I will leave you. No one will be able to save you." 
Hosea5:15 I will go back to my home in heaven. I will stay there until you admit you have sinned. Then you will turn to me. You will suffer so much that you will really want me to help you. 
Hosea6:1 The people say, ""Come. Let us return to the Lord. He has torn us to pieces. But he will heal us. He has wounded us. But he'll bandage our wounds." 
Hosea6:2 After two days he will give us new life. On the third day he'll make us like new again. Then we will enjoy his blessing. 
Hosea6:3 Let's recognize him as the Lord. Let's keep trying to really know him. You can be sure the sun will rise. And you can be just as sure the Lord will appear. He will come to renew us like the winter rains. He will be like the spring rains that water the earth. 
Hosea6:4 The Lord says, ""Ephraim, what can I do with you? And what can I do with you, Judah? Your love for me vanishes like the morning mist. It soon disappears like the early dew." 
Hosea6:5 So I used the words of my prophets to cut you in pieces. I used my words to put you to death. When I judged you, I struck you like lightning." 
Hosea6:6 I want mercy and not sacrifice. I want you to recognize me as God instead of bringing me burnt offerings. 
Hosea6:7 Just as Adam disobeyed me, you have broken the covenant I made with you. You were not faithful to me in the land I gave you." 
Hosea6:8 Ramoth Gilead is a city where sinful people live. It is stained with footprints of blood. 
Hosea6:9 On the road to Shechem, groups of priests act like robbers. They hide and wait to attack people. They murder them and commit other shameful crimes." 
Hosea6:10 People of Israel, I have seen a horrible thing in your land. People of Ephraim, you have joined yourselves to other gods. You have made yourselves 'unclean.'" 
Hosea6:11 People of Judah, I have appointed a time for you to be destroyed. ""My people, I would like to bless you with great success again.""" 
Hosea7:1 The Lord says, ""I would like to heal Israel. But when I try to, Ephraim's sins are brought out into the open. The crimes of Samaria are made known to everyone. The people tell lies. They break into houses and steal. They rob others in the streets." 
Hosea7:2 But they do not realize that I remember all of the evil things they do. Their sins pile up and cover them. I am always aware of those sins. 
Hosea7:3 Their evil conduct even makes the king glad. Their lies make the princes happy. 
Hosea7:4 But all of the people are unfaithful to the king. Their anger against him burns like the coals in an oven. The baker does not even need to stir up the fire until the dough is ready. 
Hosea7:5 On special days to honor our king, the princes get drunk with wine. And the king enjoys the party. He joins hands with those who pretend to be faithful to him." 
Hosea7:6 Their hearts are as hot as an oven. They make evil plans to get rid of him. Their anger burns like a slow fire all night. In the morning it blazes out like a flaming fire. 
Hosea7:7 All of them are as hot as an oven. They destroy their rulers. All of their kings fall from power. But none of them calls on the Lord for help. 
Hosea7:8 The people of Ephraim mix with the nations. They are like a flat cake that is baked on only one side. 
Hosea7:9 People from other lands make them weaker and weaker. But they don't realize it. Their hair is becoming gray. But they don't even notice it. 
Hosea7:10 The pride of Israel witnesses that they are guilty. But in spite of everything, they don't return to the Lord their God. They don't go to him for help." 
Hosea7:11 The Lord says, ""The people of Ephraim are like a dove. They are easily tricked. They do not have any sense at all. First they call out to Egypt for help. Then they turn to Assyria." 
Hosea7:12 When they send for help, I will throw my net over them. I will capture them like birds of the air. I will punish them, just as I warned them I would." 
Hosea7:13 How terrible it will be for them! They have wandered away from me. So they will be destroyed. They have refused to obey me. I long to save them. But they tell lies about me. 
Hosea7:14 They do not cry out to me from their hearts. Instead, they just lie on their beds and sob. They cut themselves when they pray to Baal for grain and fresh wine. So they turn away from me." 
Hosea7:15 I brought them up and made them strong. But they make evil plans against me. 
Hosea7:16 I am the Most High God. But they do not turn to me. They are like a bow that does not shoot straight. Their leaders will be killed with swords. They will die because they have spoken too proudly. The people of Egypt will make fun of them. 
Hosea8:1 The Lord said to me, ""Put a trumpet to your lips! Give a warning to my people! Assyria is like an eagle. It is ready to attack my land. My people have broken the covenant I made with them. They have refused to obey my law." 
Hosea8:2 Israel shouts to me, 'We recognize you as our God!'" 
Hosea8:3 But they have turned away from what is good. So an enemy will chase them. 
Hosea8:4 My people appoint kings I do not want. They choose princes without my permission. They use their silver and gold to make statues of gods. That is how they destroy themselves. 
Hosea8:5 The Lord says, ""People of Samaria, throw out your god that looks like a calf! My anger burns against you. How long will it be until you are able to remain faithful to me?" 
Hosea8:6 Your calf is not God. A skilled worker from Israel made it. But it will be broken to pieces. 
Hosea8:7 The Lord says, ""Worshiping other gods is like worshiping the wind. It is like planting worthless seeds. Assyria is like a windstorm. That is all my people will harvest. There are no heads of grain on the stems that will come up. So they will not produce any flour. Even if they did produce grain, the Assyrians would eat all of it up." 
Hosea8:8 So the people of Israel are swallowed up. Now they are like a worthless pot to me among the nations. 
Hosea8:9 They have gone up to Assyria for help. They are like a wild donkey that wanders around by itself. Ephraim's people have sold themselves to their Assyrian lovers. 
Hosea8:10 They have sold themselves to the nations to get their help. But now I will gather them together. They will get weaker and weaker. The mighty kings of Assyria will crush them. 
Hosea8:11 Ephraim built many altars where they sacrificed sin offerings to other gods. So their altars have become places where they commit sin. 
Hosea8:12 I wrote down many things in my law for their good. But they considered my laws as something strange. 
Hosea8:13 They offer sacrifices to me. They eat the meat of the animals they bring. But I am not pleased with any of that. I will remember the evil things they have done. I will punish them for their sins. And they will return to Egypt. 
Hosea8:14 Israel has forgotten the One who made them. They have built palaces for themselves. Judah has built forts in many towns. But I will send fire down on their cities. It will burn up their forts. 
Hosea9:1 Israel, don't be joyful. Don't be glad as the other nations are. You haven't been faithful to your God. You love to get paid for being a prostitute. Your pay is the grain at every threshing floor." 
Hosea9:2 But soon there won't be any grain or wine to feed you. There won't even be any fresh wine. 
Hosea9:3 You won't remain in the Lord's land. Ephraim, you will return to Egypt. You will eat ""unclean"" food in Assyria." 
Hosea9:4 You won't pour out wine offerings to the Lord. Your sacrifices won't please him. They'll be like the bread people eat when someone dies. Everyone who eats those sacrifices will be unclean. They themselves will have to eat that kind of food. They can't bring it into the Lord's temple. 
Hosea9:5 What will you do when your appointed feasts come? What will you do on the Lord's special days? 
Hosea9:6 Some of you will escape without being destroyed. But you will die in Egypt. Your bodies will be buried at Memphis. Weeds will cover your treasures of silver. Thorns will grow up in your tents. 
Hosea9:7 The time when God will punish you is coming. The day when he will judge you is near. I want you to know that. You have committed many sins. And you hate me very much. That's why you think I'm foolish. You think I'm crazy. But the Lord speaks through me. 
Hosea9:8 People of Ephraim, I'm a true prophet. My God is warning you through me. But you set traps for me everywhere I go. You hate me so much you even wait for me in God's house." 
Hosea9:9 You have sunk very deep into sin, just as our people did at Gibeah long ago. God will remember the evil things you have done. He will punish you for your sins." 
Hosea9:10 The Lord says, ""When I first found Israel, it was like finding grapes in the desert. When I saw your people long ago, it was like seeing the early fruit on a fig tree. But then they went to Baal Peor. There they gave themselves to that shameful god Baal. They became as evil as the god they loved." 
Hosea9:11 Ephraim's greatness and glory will be gone. It will fly away like a bird. Women will no longer have children. They will not be able to get pregnant. 
Hosea9:12 But suppose they do have children. Then I will kill every one of them. How terrible it will be for them when I turn away from them! 
Hosea9:13 Tyre is planted in a pleasant place. And so is Ephraim. But the Assyrians will kill Ephraim's children. 
Hosea9:14 Lord, what should you do to Ephraim's people? Give them women whose babies die before they are born. Give them women whose breasts don't have any milk." 
Hosea9:15 The Lord says, ""My people did many evil things in Gilgal. That is why I hated them there. They committed many sins. So I will drive them out of my land. I will not love them anymore. All of their leaders refuse to obey me." 
Hosea9:16 Ephraim is like a worthless plant. Its roots are dried up. It does not produce any fruit. Suppose Ephraim's people have children. Then I will kill the children they love so much. 
Hosea9:17 My God will turn his back on his people. They have not obeyed him. So they will wander among other nations. 
Hosea10:1 Israel was like a spreading vine. They produced fruit for themselves. As they grew more fruit, they built more altars. As their land became richer, they made the sacred stones they worshiped more beautiful." 
Hosea10:2 Their hearts are dishonest. So now they must pay for their sins. The Lord will tear their altars down. He'll destroy their sacred stones. 
Hosea10:3 Then they'll say, ""We don't have a king. That's because we didn't have any respect for the Lord. But suppose we did have a king. What could he do for us?""" 
Hosea10:4 They make a lot of promises. They make agreements among themselves. They take oaths they don't mean to keep. So court cases spring up like poisonous weeds in a plowed field. 
Hosea10:5 The people who live in Samaria are filled with fear. They are afraid their god that looks like a calf will be carried off from Bethel. They will sob over it. So will the priests who lead them to worship it. The priests were full of joy because their statue was so glorious. But it will be captured and taken far away from them. 
Hosea10:6 It will be carried off to Assyria. The people of Ephraim will be forced to give it to the great king. They will be dishonored. Israel will be ashamed that all they have left to worship is a wooden god. 
Hosea10:7 Samaria's king will be carried off. He will be like a twig floating away in a river. 
Hosea10:8 The high places where Israel worshiped other gods will be destroyed. That's where they sinned against the Lord. Thorns and weeds will grow up there. They will cover the altars. Then the people will say to the mountains, ""Cover us!"" They'll say to the hills, ""Fall on us!""" 
Hosea10:9 The Lord says, ""Israel, you have done evil things ever since your people sinned at Gibeah long ago. And you are still doing what is evil. War caught up with those who sinned at Gibeah." 
Hosea10:10 So I will punish you when I want to. Nations will gather together to fight against you. They will put you in chains because you have committed so many sins. 
Hosea10:11 Ephraim, you were like a well-trained young cow. It loved to thresh grain. I spared its pretty neck from pulling heavy loads. But now I will make you do hard work. Judah also must plow. So all of the people of Jacob must break up the ground." 
Hosea10:12 Your hearts are as hard as a field that has not been plowed. If you change your ways, you will produce good crops. So plant the seeds of doing what is right. Then you will harvest the fruit of your faithful love. It is time to turn to me. When you do, I will come and shower my blessings on you." 
Hosea10:13 But you have planted the seeds of doing what is wrong. So you have harvested the fruit of your evil conduct. You have had to eat the fruit of your lies. You have trusted in your own strength. You have depended on your many soldiers. 
Hosea10:14 But the roar of battle will come against you. All of your forts will be completely destroyed. It will happen just as Shalman destroyed Beth Arbel in a battle. Mothers and their children were smashed on the ground. 
Hosea10:15 People of Bethel, that will happen to you. You have committed far too many sins. When the time for me to punish you comes, your king will be completely destroyed.""" 
Hosea11:1 The Lord continues, ""When Israel was a young nation, I loved them. I chose to bring my son out of Egypt." 
Hosea11:2 But the more I called out to Israel, the further they went away from me. They brought sacrifices to the statues of the gods that were named after Baal. And they burned incense to them." 
Hosea11:3 I taught Israel to walk. I took them up in my arms. But they did not realize I was the one who took care of them. 
Hosea11:4 I led them with kindness and love. I did not lead them with ropes. I lifted the heavy loads from their shoulders. I bent down and fed them. 
Hosea11:5 But they refuse to turn away from their sins. So they will return to Egypt. And Assyria will rule over them. 
Hosea11:6 Swords will flash in their cities. The heavy metal bars on their gates will be destroyed. Their plans will come to an end. 
Hosea11:7 My people have made up their minds to turn away from me. Even if they call out to me, I will certainly not honor them. I am the Most High God.""" 
Hosea11:8 The Lord continues, ""People of Ephraim, how can I give you up? Israel, how can I hand you over to your enemies? Can I destroy you as I did the town of Admah? Can I treat you like Zeboiim? My heart is stirred inside me. It is filled with pity for you." 
Hosea11:9 My anger will not burn against you anymore. I will not completely destroy you. After all, I am God. I am not a mere man. I am the Holy One among you. My burning anger will not come against you." 
Hosea11:10 I will roar like a lion against my enemies. You will follow me. When I roar, my children will come home trembling with fear. You will return from the west." 
Hosea11:11 You will come trembling like birds from Egypt. You will return like doves from Assyria. I will settle you again in your homes,"" announces the Lord." 
Hosea11:12 The people of Ephraim tell nothing but lies. Israel has not been honest with me. And Judah continues to wander away from God. They have deserted the faithful Holy One. 
Hosea12:1 'PV'1 The people of Ephraim look to others for help. It's like chasing the wind. The wind they keep chasing is hot and dry. They tell more and more lies. They are always hurting others. They make a peace treaty with Assyria. They send olive oil to Egypt to get help. 
Hosea12:2 The Lord is bringing charges against Judah. He will punish Jacob's people because of how they act. He'll pay them back for the evil things they've done. 
Hosea12:3 Even before Jacob was born, he was holding on to his brother's heel. When he became a man, he struggled with God." 
Hosea12:4 At Peniel he struggled with the angel and won. He sobbed and begged for his blessing. God also met with him at Bethel. He talked with him there. 
Hosea12:5 He is the Lord God who rules over all. He wants us to remember that his name is The Lord. 
Hosea12:6 People of Jacob, you must return to your God. You must hold on to love and do what is fair. You must trust in your God always." 
Hosea12:7 You are like a trader who uses dishonest scales. You love to cheat others. 
Hosea12:8 People of Ephraim, you brag, ""We are very rich. We've become wealthy. And no one can prove we sinned to gain all of this wealth.""" 
Hosea12:9 The Lord says, ""I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. But I will make you live in tents again. That is what you did when you celebrated the Feast of Booths in the desert." 
Hosea12:10 I spoke to the prophets. They saw many visions. I gave you warnings through them. 
Hosea12:11 The people of Gilead are evil! They aren't worth anything! Gilgal's people sacrifice bulls to other gods. Their altars will become like piles of stones on a plowed field. 
Hosea12:12 Jacob ran away to the country of Aram. There Israel served Laban to get a wife. He took care of sheep to pay for her. 
Hosea12:13 The prophet Moses brought Israel up from Egypt. The Lord used him to take care of them. 
Hosea12:14 But Ephraim's people have made the Lord very angry. Their Lord will hold them accountable for the blood they've spilled. He'll pay them back for the shameful things they've done. 
Hosea13:1 When the tribe of Ephraim spoke, the other tribes trembled with fear. Ephraim was honored in Israel. But its people sinned by worshiping Baal. So they were as good as dead." 
Hosea13:2 Now they sin more and more. They use their silver to make statues of gods for themselves. The statues come from their own clever ideas. Skilled workers make all of them. The people pray to those gods. They offer human sacrifices to them. They kiss the gods that look like calves. 
Hosea13:3 So those people will vanish like the morning mist. They will soon disappear like the early dew. They will be like straw that the wind blows around on a threshing floor. They will be like smoke that escapes through a window. 
Hosea13:4 The Lord says, ""People of Israel, I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt. You must not recognize any God but me. You must not have any Savior except me." 
Hosea13:5 I took care of you in the desert. It was a land of burning heat. 
Hosea13:6 I fed you until you were satisfied. Then you became proud. You forgot all about me. 
Hosea13:7 So I will leap on you like a lion. I will hide and wait beside the road like a leopard. 
Hosea13:8 I will attack you like a bear that is robbed of her cubs. I will rip you wide open. Like a lion I will eat you up. Like a wild animal I will tear you apart. 
Hosea13:9 Israel, you will be destroyed. I helped you. But you turned against me." 
Hosea13:10 Where is your king? Wasn't he supposed to save you? Where are the rulers in all of your towns? You said, 'Give us a king and princes.'" 
Hosea13:11 So I became angry and gave you a king. Then I took him away from you. 
Hosea13:12 Ephraim, your guilt is piling up. I am keeping a record of all of your sins." 
Hosea13:13 You will suffer pain like a woman having a baby. You are like a foolish child. It is time for you to be born. But you refuse to come out of your mother's body. 
Hosea13:14 I will set you free from the power of the grave. I will save you from death. Death, where are your plagues? Grave, where is your power to destroy? ""Ephraim, I will no longer pity you." 
Hosea13:15 Even though you are doing well among the other tribes, trouble will come to you. I will send a hot and dry wind from the east. It will blow in from the desert. Your springs will not have any water. Your wells will dry up. All of your treasures will be taken out of your storerooms." 
Hosea13:16 People of Samaria, you must pay for your sins. You have refused to obey me. You will be killed with swords. Your little children will be smashed on the ground. Your pregnant women will be ripped wide open.""" 
Hosea14:1 Israel, return to the Lord your God. Your sins have destroyed you!" 
Hosea14:2 Tell the Lord you are turning away from your sins. Return to him. Say to him, ""Forgive us for all of our sins. Please be kind to us. Welcome us back to you. Then our lips will offer you our praise." 
Hosea14:3 Assyria can't save us. We won't trust in our war horses. Our own hands have made statues of gods. But we will never call them our gods again. We are like children whose fathers have died. But you show us your tender love. 
Hosea14:4 Then the Lord will answer, ""My people always wander away from me. But I will put an end to that. My anger has turned away from them. Now I will love them freely." 
Hosea14:5 I will be like the dew to Israel. They will bloom like a lily. They will send their roots down deep like a cedar tree in Lebanon. 
Hosea14:6 They will spread out like new branches. They will be as beautiful as an olive tree. They will smell as sweet as the cedar trees in Lebanon. 
Hosea14:7 Once again my people will live in the safety of my shade. They will grow like grain. They will bloom like vines. And they will be as famous as wine from Lebanon. 
Hosea14:8 Ephraim will have nothing more to do with other gods. I will answer the prayers of my people. I will take good care of them. I will be like a green pine tree to them. All of the fruit they bear will come from me. 
Hosea14:9 If you are wise, you will realize that what I've said is true. If you have understanding, you will know what it means. The ways of the Lord are right. People who are right with God live the way he wants them to. But those who refuse to obey him trip and fall." 
Joel1:1 A message came to Joel from the Lord. He was the son of Pethuel. Here is what Joel said. 
Joel1:2 Elders, listen to me. Pay attention, all you who live in the land. Has anything like this ever happened in your whole life? Did it ever happen to your people who lived long ago?" 
Joel1:3 Tell your children about it. Let them tell their children. And let their children tell it to those who live after them. 
Joel1:4 The giant locusts have eaten what the common locusts have left. The young locusts have eaten what the giant locusts have left. And other locusts have eaten what the young locusts have left. 
Joel1:5 Get up and sob, you people who drink too much! Cry, all you who drink wine! Cry because the fresh wine has been taken away from you." 
Joel1:6 The locusts are like an army that has marched into our land. There are so many of them they can't even be counted. Their teeth are as sharp as a lion's teeth. They are like the fangs of a female lion. 
Joel1:7 The locusts have completely destroyed our vines. They have wiped out our fig trees. They've stripped off the bark and thrown it away. They've left the branches bare. 
Joel1:8 My people, sob like a virgin who is dressed in black clothes. She is sad because she has lost the young man she was going to marry." 
Joel1:9 No one brings grain offerings and drink offerings to the Lord's house anymore. So the priests who serve the Lord are filled with sorrow. 
Joel1:10 Our fields are wiped out. The ground is dried up. The grain is destroyed. The fresh wine is gone. And there isn't any more olive oil. 
Joel1:11 Farmers, be sad. Cry, you who grow vines. Sob because the wheat and barley are gone. The crops in the fields are destroyed." 
Joel1:12 The vines and fig trees are dried up. The pomegranate, palm and apple trees don't have any fruit on them. In fact, all of the trees in the fields are dried up. And my people's joy has faded away." 
Joel1:13 Priests, put on black clothes and sob. Cry, you who serve at the altar. Come, you who serve my God in the temple. Spend the night dressed in black clothes. Sob because no one brings grain offerings and drink offerings to the house of your God anymore." 
Joel1:14 Announce a holy fast. Tell the people not to eat anything. Gather them together for a special service. Send for all of the elders who live in the land. Have them come to the house of the Lord your God. And pray to him. 
Joel1:15 The day of the Lord is near. How sad it will be on that day! The Mighty One is coming to destroy you. 
Joel1:16 Our food has been taken away right in front of our eyes. There isn't any joy or gladness in the house of our God. 
Joel1:17 The seeds have dried up in the ground. The grain is also gone. The storerooms have been destroyed. The barns are broken down. 
Joel1:18 Listen to the cattle groan! The herds wander around. They don't have any grass to eat. The flocks of sheep are also suffering. 
Joel1:19 Lord, I call out to you. Fire has burned up the grasslands. Flames have destroyed all of the trees in the fields." 
Joel1:20 Even the wild animals cry out to you for help. The streams of water have dried up. Fire has burned up the grasslands. 
Joel2:1 Priests, blow the trumpets in Zion. Give a warning on my holy mountain. Let everyone who lives in the land tremble with fear. The day of the Lord is coming. It is very near." 
Joel2:2 That day will be dark and sad. It will be black and cloudy. A huge army of locusts is coming. They will spread across the mountains like the sun when it rises. There has never been an army like it. And there will never be another for all time to come. 
Joel2:3 Like fire they eat up everything in their path. Behind them it looks as if flames have burned the land. In front of them the land is like the Garden of Eden. Behind them it is a dry and empty desert. Nothing escapes them. 
Joel2:4 They look like horses. Like war horses they charge ahead. 
Joel2:5 They sound like chariots as they leap over the mountaintops. They crackle like fire burning up dry weeds. They are like a mighty army that is ready for battle. 
Joel2:6 When people see them, they tremble with fear. All of their faces turn pale." 
Joel2:7 The locusts charge ahead like warriors. They climb over walls like soldiers. All of them march in line. They don't turn to the right or the left. 
Joel2:8 They don't bump into one another. Each of them marches straight ahead. They charge through everything that tries to stop them. But they still stay in line. 
Joel2:9 They attack a city. They run along its wall. They climb into houses. They enter through windows like robbers. 
Joel2:10 As they march forward, the earth shakes. The sky trembles as they approach. The sun and moon grow dark. And the stars stop shining." 
Joel2:11 The Lord thunders with his mighty voice as he leads his army. He has so many forces they can't even be counted. Those who obey his commands are great in number. The day of the Lord is great and terrifying. Who can live through it? 
Joel2:12 The Lord announces to his people, ""Return to me with all your heart. There is still time. Do not eat any food. Sob and cry.""" 
Joel2:13 Don't just tear your clothes to show how sad you are. Let your hearts be broken. Return to the Lord your God. He is gracious. He is tender and kind. He is slow to get angry. He is full of love. He takes pity on you. He won't destroy you. 
Joel2:14 Who knows? He might turn toward you and have pity on you. He might even give you his blessing. Then you can bring grain offerings and drink offerings to the Lord your God. 
Joel2:15 Priests, blow the trumpets in Zion. Announce a holy fast. Tell the people not to eat anything. Gather them together for a special service." 
Joel2:16 Bring them together. Set all of them apart to me. Bring together the elders. Gather the children and the babies who are still nursing. Let the groom leave his bedroom. Let the bride leave their marriage bed. 
Joel2:17 Let the priests who serve the Lord sob. Let them cry between the temple porch and the altar. Let them say, ""Lord, spare your people. Don't let others make fun of them. Don't let the nations laugh at them. Don't let them tease your people and say, 'Where is their God?' """ 
Joel2:18 Then the Lord will show concern for his land. He will take pity on his people. 
Joel2:19 He will reply, ""I will send you grain, olive oil and fresh wine. It will be enough to satisfy you completely. I will never allow other nations to make fun of you again." 
Joel2:20 I will drive far away from you the army that comes from the north. I will send some of its forces into a dry and empty land. Those in front will be pushed into the Dead Sea. The ones in back will be driven into the Mediterranean Sea. Their dead bodies will give off a bad smell. The Lord has done great things. 
Joel2:21 Land, don't be afraid. Be glad and full of joy. The Lord has done great things." 
Joel2:22 Wild animals, don't be afraid. The grasslands are turning green again. The trees are bearing their fruit. The vines and fig trees are producing rich crops." 
Joel2:23 People of Zion, be glad. Be joyful because of what the Lord your God has done. He has given you the right amount of rain in the fall. He has sent you plenty of showers. He has sent fall and spring rains alike, just as he did before." 
Joel2:24 Your threshing floors will be covered with grain. Olive oil and fresh wine will spill over from the places where they are stored. 
Joel2:25 The Lord says, ""I sent a great army of locusts to attack you. They included common locusts, giant locusts, young locusts and other locusts. I will make up for the years they ate your crops." 
Joel2:26 You will have plenty to eat. It will satisfy you completely. Then you will praise me. I am the Lord your God. I have done wonderful miracles for you. My people will never be put to shame again. 
Joel2:27 You will know that I am with you in Israel. I am the Lord your God. There is no other God. So my people will never be put to shame again. 
Joel2:28 After that, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your old men will have dreams. Your young men will have visions." 
Joel2:29 In those days I will pour out my Spirit on those who serve me, men and women alike." 
Joel2:30 I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth. There will be blood and fire and clouds of smoke. 
Joel2:31 The sun will become dark. The moon will turn red like blood. It will happen before the great and terrible day of the Lord comes. 
Joel2:32 Everyone who calls out to me will be saved. On Mount Zion and in Jerusalem some of my people will be left alive. I have chosen them. That is what I have promised. 
Joel3:1 At that time I will bless Judah and Jerusalem with great success again. 
Joel3:2 I will gather all of the nations together. I will bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. There I will judge them. I will punish them for what they have done to my people Israel. They scattered them among the nations. They divided up my land among themselves. 
Joel3:3 They cast lots for my people. They sold boys into slavery to get prostitutes. They sold girls to buy some wine to drink. 
Joel3:4 Tyre and Sidon, why are you doing things like that to me? And why are you doing them, all of you people in Philistia? Are you trying to get even with me for something I have done? If you are, I will pay you back for it in a quick and speedy way." 
Joel3:5 You took my silver and gold. You carried off my finest treasures to your temples. 
Joel3:6 You sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks. You wanted to send them far away from their own country. 
Joel3:7 But now I will stir them up into action. I will bring them back from the places you sold them to. And I will do to you what you did to them. 
Joel3:8 I will sell your sons and daughters to the people of Judah. And they will sell them to the Sabeans far away. The Lord has spoken. 
Joel3:9 Announce this among the nations. Tell them to prepare for battle. Nations, get your soldiers ready! Bring all of your fighting men together and march out to attack." 
Joel3:10 Hammer your plows into swords. Hammer your pruning tools into spears. Let those who are weak say, ""We are soldiers!""" 
Joel3:11 Come quickly, all of you surrounding nations. Gather together in the Valley of Jehoshaphat. Lord, send your soldiers down from heaven!" 
Joel3:12 The Lord says, ""Stir up the nations into action! Let them march into the valley where I will judge them. I will take my seat in court. I will judge all of the surrounding nations." 
Joel3:13 My soldiers, swing your sickles. The nations are ripe for harvest. Come. Stomp on them as if they were grapes. Crush them until the winepress of my anger is full. Do it until the wine spills over from the places where it is stored. The nations have committed far too many sins!""" 
Joel3:14 Huge numbers of soldiers are gathered in the valley where the Lord will hand down his sentence. The day of the Lord is near in that valley. 
Joel3:15 The sun and moon will become dark. The stars won't shine anymore. 
Joel3:16 The Lord will roar like a lion from Jerusalem. His voice will sound like thunder from Zion. The earth and sky will tremble. But the Lord will keep the people of Israel safe. He will be a place of safety for them. 
Joel3:17 The Lord says, ""You will know that I am the Lord your God. I live in Zion. It is my holy mountain. Jerusalem will be my holy city. People from other lands will never attack it again." 
Joel3:18 At that time fresh wine will drip from the mountains. Milk will flow down from the hills. Water will run through all of Judah's valleys. A fountain will flow out of my temple. It will water the places where acacia trees grow. 
Joel3:19 But Egypt will be deserted. Edom will become a dry and empty desert. They did terrible harm to the people of Judah. My people were not guilty of doing anything wrong. But Egypt and Edom spilled their blood anyway. 
Joel3:20 My people will live in Judah and Jerusalem forever. The land will be their home for all time to come. 
Joel3:21 Egypt and Edom have spilled my people's blood. I will punish them for it. The Lord lives in Zion! 
Amos1:1 These are the words of Amos. He was a shepherd from the town of Tekoa. Here is the vision he saw concerning Israel. It came to him two years before the earthquake. At that time Uzziah was king of Judah. Jeroboam was king of Israel. He was the son of Jehoash. Here are the words of Amos. 
Amos1:2 I said, ""The Lord roars like a lion from Jerusalem. His voice sounds like thunder from Zion. The grasslands of the shepherds turn brown. The top of Mount Carmel dries up.""" 
Amos1:3 The Lord says, ""The people of Damascus have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They used threshing sleds with iron teeth to crush Gilead's people." 
Amos1:4 So I will send fire to destroy the palace of King Hazael. It will burn up the forts of his son Ben-Hadad. 
Amos1:5 I will break down the city gate of Damascus. I will cut off the king who lives in the Valley of Aven. He holds the ruler's rod in Beth Eden. The people of Aram will be taken away to Kir as prisoners,"" says the Lord." 
Amos1:6 The Lord says, ""The people of Gaza have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They captured whole communities. They sold them to Edom." 
Amos1:7 So I will send fire to destroy the walls of Gaza. It will burn up its forts. 
Amos1:8 I will cut off the king of Ashdod. He holds the ruler's rod in Ashkelon. I will use my powerful hand against Ekron. Every single Philistine will die,"" says the Lord and King." 
Amos1:9 The Lord says, ""The people of Tyre have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They captured whole communities. They sold them to Edom. They did not honor the treaty of friendship they had made." 
Amos1:10 So I will send fire to destroy the walls of Tyre. It will burn up its forts. 
Amos1:11 The Lord says, ""The people of Edom have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They chased Israel with swords that were ready to strike them down. They did not show them any pity. They were angry all the time. Their anger blazed out. It could not be stopped." 
Amos1:12 So I will send fire to destroy the city of Teman. It will burn up Bozrah's forts. 
Amos1:13 The Lord says, ""The people of Ammon have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They ripped open the pregnant women in Gilead. They wanted to add land to their territory." 
Amos1:14 So I will set fire to destroy the walls of Rabbah. It will burn up its forts. War cries will be heard on that day of battle. Strong winds will blow on that stormy day. 
Amos1:15 Ammon's god Molech will be carried away. So will its officials,"" says the Lord." 
Amos2:1 The Lord says, ""The people of Moab have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They burned the bones of Edom's king to ashes." 
Amos2:2 So I will send fire to destroy Moab. It will burn up Kerioth's forts. Moab will come crashing down with a loud noise. War cries will be heard. So will the blast of trumpets. 
Amos2:3 I will cut off Moab's ruler. I will also kill all of its officials,"" says the Lord." 
Amos2:4 The Lord says, ""The people of Judah have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They have refused to obey my law. They have not kept my rules. Other gods have led them down the wrong path. Their people before them worshiped those gods." 
Amos2:5 So I will send fire to destroy Judah. It will burn up Jerusalem's forts. 
Amos2:6 The Lord says, ""The people of Israel have sinned again and again. So I will punish them. They sell into slavery those who do what is right. They trade needy people for a mere pair of sandals." 
Amos2:7 They grind the heads of the poor into the dust of the ground. They refuse to be fair to those who are crushed. A father and his son have sex with the same girl. They treat my name as if it were not holy. 
Amos2:8 They lie down beside every altar on clothes they had taken until the owner paid back what was owed. In the house of their God they drink wine that was taken as fines. 
Amos2:9 I destroyed the Amorites to make room for my people in the land. The Amorites were as tall as cedar trees. They were as strong as oak trees. But I cut off their fruit above the ground and their roots below it. 
Amos2:10 People of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt. I led you in the desert for 40 years. I gave you the land of the Amorites." 
Amos2:11 I raised up prophets from among your children. I also set some of your young people apart to me as Nazirites. Isn't that true, people of Israel?"" announces the Lord." 
Amos2:12 But you made the Nazirites drink wine. You commanded the prophets not to prophesy. 
Amos2:13 A cart that is loaded with grain crushes anything it runs over. In the same way, I will crush you." 
Amos2:14 Your fastest runners will not escape. The strongest people will not get away. Even soldiers will not be able to save their own lives. 
Amos2:15 Men who are armed with bows will lose the battle. Soldiers who are quick on their feet will not escape. Horsemen will not be able to save their own lives. 
Amos2:16 Even your bravest soldiers will run away naked on that day,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos3:1 People of Israel, listen to the Lord's message. It is against you. It is against the whole family he brought up out of Egypt. He says," 
Amos3:2 Out of all of the families on earth I have chosen only you. So I will punish you because you have committed so many sins. 
Amos3:3 Do two people walk together unless they've agreed to do so? 
Amos3:4 Does a lion roar in the bushes when it doesn't have any food? Does it growl in its den when it hasn't caught anything? 
Amos3:5 Does a bird fall into a trap on the ground where no one has set a trap for it? Does a net spring up from the earth when there isn't anything for it to catch? 
Amos3:6 When someone blows a trumpet in a city, don't the people tremble with fear? When trouble comes to a city, hasn't the Lord caused it?" 
Amos3:7 The Lord and King never does anything without telling his servants the prophets about it. 
Amos3:8 A lion has roared. Who isn't afraid? The Lord and King has spoken. Who can do anything but prophesy? 
Amos3:9 Speak to the people in the forts of Ashdod and Egypt. Tell them, ""Gather together on the mountains of Samaria. Look at the great trouble in that city. Its people are committing many crimes.""" 
Amos3:10 They do not know how to do what is right,"" announces the Lord. ""They pile up stolen goods in their forts.""" 
Amos3:11 So the Lord and King says, ""Enemies will take over your land. They will pull down your places of safety. They will rob your forts.""" 
Amos3:12 The Lord says, ""Suppose a shepherd saves only two leg bones from a lion's mouth. Or he might save only a piece of an ear. That is how the Israelites will be saved. They sit in Samaria on the edge of their beds. They lie down in Damascus on their couches.""" 
Amos3:13 Listen to me,"" announces the Lord. ""Witness against the people of Jacob,"" says the Lord God who rules over all." 
Amos3:14 I will punish Israel for their sins. When I do, I will destroy their altars at Bethel. The horns that stick out from the upper corners of their main altar will be cut off. They will fall to the ground." 
Amos3:15 I will tear their winter houses down. I will also pull down their summer houses. The houses they have decorated with ivory will be destroyed. And their princely houses will be torn down,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:1 Listen to the Lord's message, you women who live on the hill of Samaria. You treat poor people badly. You crush those who are in need. You say to your husbands, ""Bring us some drinks!"" But you are already as fat as the cows in Bashan." 
Amos4:2 The Lord and King has taken an oath in his own holy name. He says, ""You can be sure that the time will come when your enemies will put hooks in your faces. They will lead every one of you away with fishhooks." 
Amos4:3 Each of you will go straight out through a gap in the wall. You will be thrown out of the city on the hill where you crush others,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:4 People of Samaria, go to Bethel and sin! Go to Gilgal! Sin there even more! Bring your sacrifices every morning. Every third year, bring a tenth of everything you produce." 
Amos4:5 Bake some bread with yeast. Burn it as a thank offering. Brag about the offerings you freely give. That is what you Israelites love to do,"" announces the Lord and King." 
Amos4:6 I made sure your stomachs were empty in every city. You did not have enough bread in any of your towns. In spite of that, you still have not returned to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:7 I also held rain back from you. The time to harvest crops was still three months away. I sent rain on one town. But I held it back from another. One field had rain. Another did not. So it dried up. 
Amos4:8 People wandered from town to town to look for water. But they did not get enough to drink. In spite of that, you still have not returned to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:9 Many times I struck your gardens and vineyards. I sent hot winds to dry them up completely. Locusts ate up your fig and olive trees. In spite of that, you still have not returned to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:10 I sent plagues on you, just as I did on Egypt. I killed your young men with swords. I also let the horses you had captured be killed. I filled your noses with the bad smell of your camps. In spite of that, you still have not returned to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:11 I destroyed some of you, just as I did Sodom and Gomorrah. You were like a burning stick that was pulled out of the fire. In spite of that, you still have not returned to me,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos4:12 People of Israel, I will punish you. Because I will do that to you, prepare to meet your God!""" 
Amos4:13 The Lord forms the mountains. He creates the wind. He makes his thoughts known to human beings. He turns sunrise into darkness. He rules over the highest places on earth. His name is The Lord God Who Rules Over All. 
Amos5:1 People of Israel, listen to the Lord's message. Hear my song of sadness about you. I say," 
Amos5:2 The people of Israel have fallen. They will never get up again. They are deserted in their own land. No one can lift them up. 
Amos5:3 The Lord and King says, ""A thousand soldiers will march out from a city in Israel. But only a hundred will return. A hundred soldiers will march out from a town. But only ten will come back.""" 
Amos5:4 The Lord speaks to the people of Israel. He says, ""Look to me and live." 
Amos5:5 Do not look to Bethel. Do not go to Gilgal. Do not travel to Beersheba. The people of Gilgal will be taken away as prisoners. Nothing will be left of Bethel. 
Amos5:6 Israel, look to the Lord and live. If you don't, he will sweep through the people of Joseph like a fire. It will burn everything up. And Bethel won't have anyone to put it out." 
Amos5:7 You turn what is fair into something bitter. What is right you throw down to the ground. 
Amos5:8 The Lord made the Pleiades and Orion. He turns darkness into sunrise. He makes the day fade into night. He sends for the waters in the clouds. Then he pours them out on the surface of the land. His name is The Lord. 
Amos5:9 He destroys places of safety. He tears down cities that have high walls around them. 
Amos5:10 Israel, you hate those who do what is right in court. You can't stand those who tell the truth." 
Amos5:11 You walk all over poor people. You make them give you grain. You have built stone houses. But you won't live in them. You have planted fruitful vineyards. But you won't drink the wine they produce. 
Amos5:12 I know how many crimes you have committed. You have sinned far too much. You crush those who do what is right. You accept money from people who want special favors. You take away the rights of poor people in the courts. 
Amos5:13 So those who are wise keep quiet in times like these. That's because the times are evil. 
Amos5:14 Look to what is good, not to what is evil. Then you will live. And the Lord God who rules over all will be with you, just as you say he is." 
Amos5:15 Hate what is evil. Love what is good. Do what is fair in the courts. Perhaps the Lord God who rules over all will show you his favor. After all, you are the only ones left in the family line of Joseph." 
Amos5:16 The Lord God rules over all. The Lord says, ""People will sob in all of the streets. They will be very sad in every market place. Even farmers will be told to cry loudly. People will sob over the dead." 
Amos5:17 Workers will cry in all of the vineyards. That is because I will punish you,"" says the Lord." 
Amos5:18 How terrible it will be for you who long for the day of the Lord! Why do you want it to come? That day will be dark, not light." 
Amos5:19 It will be like a man running away from a lion only to meet a bear. He enters his house and rests his hand on a wall only to be bitten by a snake. 
Amos5:20 The day of the Lord will be dark, not light. It will be very black. There won't be a ray of sunlight anywhere." 
Amos5:21 The Lord says, ""I hate your holy feasts. I can't stand them. I hate it when you gather together." 
Amos5:22 You bring me burnt offerings and grain offerings. But I will not accept them. You bring your best friendship offerings. But I will not even look at them. 
Amos5:23 Take the noise of your songs away! I will not listen to the music of your harps. 
Amos5:24 I want you to treat others fairly. So let fair treatment roll on just as a river does! Always do what is right. Let right living flow along like a stream that never runs dry! 
Amos5:25 People of Israel, did you bring me sacrifices and offerings for 40 years in the desert?" 
Amos5:26 Yes. But you have honored the place where your king worshiped other gods. You have carried the stands the statues of your gods were on. You have lifted up the banners of the stars you worship as gods. You made all of those things for yourselves. 
Amos5:27 So I will send you away as prisoners beyond Damascus,"" says the Lord. His name is God Who Rules Over All." 
Amos6:1 How terrible it will be for you men who are so contented on Mount Zion! How terrible for you who feel secure on the hill of Samaria! You are famous men from the greatest nation. The people of Israel come to you for help and advice. 
Amos6:2 Go to the city of Calneh. Look at it. Go from there to the great city of Hamath. Then go down to Gath in Philistia. Are those places better off than your two kingdoms? Is their land larger than yours? 
Amos6:3 You are trying to avoid the time when trouble will come. But you are only bringing closer the Assyrian rule of terror. 
Amos6:4 You lie down on beds that are decorated with ivory. You rest on your couches. You eat the best lambs and the fattest calves. 
Amos6:5 You pluck away on your harps as David did. You play new songs on musical instruments. 
Amos6:6 You drink wine by the bowlful. You use the finest lotions. But Joseph's people will soon be destroyed. And you aren't even sad about it. 
Amos6:7 So you will be among the first to be taken away as prisoners. You won't be able to enjoy good food. You won't lie around on couches anymore. 
Amos6:8 The Lord and King has taken an oath in his own name. He is the Lord God who rules over all. He announces, ""I hate the pride of Jacob's people. I can't stand their forts. I will hand the city of Samaria and everything in it over to their enemies.""" 
Amos6:9 Ten men might be left in one house. If they are, they will die there." 
Amos6:10 Relatives might come to burn the dead bodies. If they do, they'll have to carry them out of the house first. They might ask someone still hiding there, ""Is anyone here with you?"" If the answer is no, the relatives will say, ""Be quiet! We must not pray in the Lord's name.""" 
Amos6:11 The Lord has already given an order. He will smash large houses to pieces. He will crush small houses to bits. 
Amos6:12 Horses don't run on rocky ground. People don't plow there with oxen. But you have turned fair treatment into poison. You have turned the fruit of right living into bitterness. 
Amos6:13 You are happy because you captured the town of Lo Debar. You say, ""We were strong enough to take Karnaim too.""" 
Amos6:14 But the Lord God rules over all. He announces, ""People of Israel, I will stir up a nation against you. They will crush you from Lebo Hamath all the way down to the Arabah Valley.""" 
Amos7:1 The Lord and King gave me a vision. He was bringing large numbers of locusts on the land. The king's share of the first crop had already been harvested. Now the second crop was coming up. 
Amos7:2 The locusts stripped the land clean. Then I cried out, ""Lord and King, forgive Israel! How can Jacob's people continue? They are such a weak nation!""" 
Amos7:3 So the Lord had pity on them. I will let them continue for now,"" he said." 
Amos7:4 The Lord and King gave me a second vision. He was using fire to punish his people. It dried up the deep waters. It burned the land up. 
Amos7:5 Then I cried out, ""Lord and King, please stop! How can Jacob's people continue? They are such a weak nation!""" 
Amos7:6 So the Lord had pity on them. I will let them continue for now,"" the Lord and King said." 
Amos7:7 Then the Lord gave me a third vision. He was standing by a wall. It had been built very straight, all the way up and down. He was holding a plumb line." 
Amos7:8 The Lord asked me, ""What do you see, Amos?"" ""A plumb line,"" I replied. Then the Lord said, ""Look at what I am doing. I am hanging a plumb line next to my people Israel. It will show how crooked they are. I will no longer spare them." 
Amos7:9 The high places where Isaac's people worship other gods will be destroyed. The other places of worship in Israel will also be torn down. I will use my sword to attack Jeroboam's royal family. 
Amos7:10 Amaziah was priest of Bethel. He sent a message to Jeroboam, the king of Israel. He said, ""Amos is making evil plans against you right here in Israel. The people in the land can't stand to listen to what he's saying." 
Amos7:11 Amos is telling them, "" 'Jeroboam will be killed with a sword. The people of Israel will be taken away as prisoners. They will be carried off from their own land.' """ 
Amos7:12 Then Amaziah said to Amos, ""Get out of Israel, you prophet! Go back to the land of Judah. Earn your living there. Do your prophesying there." 
Amos7:13 Don't prophesy here at Bethel anymore. This is where the king worships. The main temple in the kingdom is located here. 
Amos7:14 Amos answered Amaziah, ""I was not a prophet. I wasn't even a prophet's son. I was a shepherd. I also took care of sycamore-fig trees." 
Amos7:15 But the Lord took me away from taking care of the flock. He said to me, 'Go. Prophesy to my people Israel.'" 
Amos7:16 Now then, listen to the Lord's message. You say, "" 'Don't prophesy against Israel. Stop preaching against the people of Isaac.'" 
Amos7:17 But the Lord says, "" 'Your wife will become a prostitute in the city of Bethel. Your sons and daughters will be killed with swords. Your land will be measured and divided up. And you yourself will die in another country. The people of Israel will be taken away as prisoners. They will be carried off from their own land.' """ 
Amos8:1 The Lord and King gave me a vision. He showed me a basket of ripe fruit. 
Amos8:2 What do you see, Amos?"" he asked. ""A basket of ripe fruit,"" I replied. Then the Lord said to me, ""The time is ripe for my people Israel. I will no longer spare them." 
Amos8:3 The time is coming when the songs in the temple will turn to crying,"" announces the Lord and King. ""Many, many bodies will be thrown everywhere! So be quiet!""" 
Amos8:4 Listen to me, you who walk all over needy people. You crush those who are poor in the land." 
Amos8:5 You say, ""When will the New Moon Feast be over? Then we can sell our grain. When will the Sabbath day come to an end? Then people can buy our wheat."" But you don't measure out the right amount. You raise your prices. You cheat others by using dishonest scales." 
Amos8:6 You buy poor people to make slaves out of them. You buy those who are in need for a mere pair of sandals. You even sell the worthless parts of your wheat. 
Amos8:7 People of Jacob, you are proud that the Lord is your God. But he has taken an oath in his own name. He says, ""I will never forget anything Israel has done." 
Amos8:8 The land will tremble because of what will happen. Everyone who lives in it will sob. So the whole land will rise like the Nile River. It will be stirred up. Then it will settle back down again like that river in Egypt. 
Amos8:9 The Lord and King announces, ""At that time I will make the sun go down at noon. The earth will become dark in the middle of the day." 
Amos8:10 I will turn your holy feasts into times for sobbing. I will turn all of your songs into crying. You will have to wear black clothes. You will shave your heads. I will make you sob as if your only son had died. The end of that time will be like a bitter day. 
Amos8:11 The Lord and King announces, ""The days are coming when I will send hunger through the land. But people will not be hungry for food. They will not be thirsty for water. Instead, they will be hungry to hear a message from me." 
Amos8:12 People will wander from the Dead Sea to the Mediterranean. They will travel from north to east. They will look for a message from me. But they will not find it. 
Amos8:13 At that time the lovely young women and strong young men will faint because they are so thirsty. 
Amos8:14 Some people take oaths in the name of Samaria's shameful god. Others say, 'People of Dan, you can be sure that your god is alive.' Still others say, 'You can be sure that Beersheba's god is alive.' But all of those people will fall dead. They will never get up again.""" 
Amos9:1 I saw the Lord standing next to the altar in the temple. He said to me, ""Strike the tops of the temple pillars. Then the heavy stones at the base of the entrance will shake. Bring everything down on the heads of everyone there. I will kill with my swords those who are left alive. Not one of them will escape. None will get away." 
Amos9:2 They might dig down to the deepest parts of the grave. But my powerful hand will take them out of there. They might climb up to the heavens. But I will bring them down from there. 
Amos9:3 They might hide on top of Mount Carmel. But I will hunt them down and grab hold of them. They might hide from me at the bottom of the ocean. But I will command the serpent to bite them. 
Amos9:4 Their enemies might take them away as prisoners to another country. But I will command their enemies to kill them with their swords. I will turn my eyes toward them to harm them. I will not help them. 
Amos9:5 The Lord rules over all. The Lord touches the earth, and it melts. Everyone who lives in it sobs. The whole land rises like the Nile River. Then it settles back down again like that river in Egypt." 
Amos9:6 The Lord builds his palace high in the heavens. He lays its foundation on the earth. He sends for the waters in the clouds. Then he pours them out on the surface of the land. His name is The Lord. 
Amos9:7 You Israelites are just like the people of Cush to me,"" announces the Lord. ""I brought Israel up from Egypt. I also brought the Philistines from Crete and the Arameans from Kir." 
Amos9:8 I am the Lord and King. My eyes are watching the sinful kingdom of Israel. I will wipe it off the face of the earth. But I will not totally destroy the people of Jacob,"" announces the Lord." 
Amos9:9 I will give an order. I will shake the people of Israel among all of the nations. They will be like grain that is shaken through a screen. Not a pebble will fall to the ground. 
Amos9:10 All of the sinners among my people will be killed with swords. They say, 'Nothing bad will ever happen to us.'" 
Amos9:11 The time will come when I will rebuild David's fallen tent. I will repair its broken places. I will rebuild what was destroyed. I will make it what it used to be. 
Amos9:12 Then my people will take control of those who are left alive in Edom. They will also possess all of the nations that belong to me,"" announces the Lord. He will do all of those things." 
Amos9:13 A new day is coming,"" announces the Lord. ""At that time those who plow the land will catch up with those who harvest the crops. Those who stomp on grapes will catch up with those who plant the vines. Fresh wine will drip from the mountains. It will flow down from all of the hills." 
Amos9:14 I will bring my people Israel back home. I will bless them with great success again. They will rebuild the destroyed cities and live in them. They will plant vineyards and drink the wine they produce. They will make gardens and eat their fruit. 
Amos9:15 I will plant Israel in their own land. They will never again be removed from the land I have given them,"" says the Lord your God." 
Obadiah1:1 This is the vision about Edom that Obadiah had. Here is what he said. We've heard a message from the Lord and King. A messenger was sent to the nations. The Lord told him to say, ""Get up! Let us go and make war against Edom.""" 
Obadiah1:2 The Lord says to Edom, ""I will make you weak among the nations. They will look down on you." 
Obadiah1:3 You live in the safety of the rocks. You make your home high up in the mountains. But your proud heart has tricked you. So you say to yourself, 'No one can bring me down to the ground.'" 
Obadiah1:4 You have built your home as high as an eagle does. You have made your nest among the stars. But I will bring you down from there,"" announces the Lord." 
Obadiah1:5 Edom, suppose robbers came to you at night. They would steal only as much as they wanted. Suppose grape pickers came to harvest your vines. They would still leave a few grapes. But you are facing horrible trouble!" 
Obadiah1:6 People of Esau, everything will be taken away from you. Your hidden treasures will be stolen." 
Obadiah1:7 All those who are helping you will force you to leave your country. Your friends will trick you and overpower you. Those who eat bread with you will set a trap for you. But you will not see it. 
Obadiah1:8 The Lord announces, ""At that time I will destroy the wise men of Edom. I will wipe out the men of understanding in the mountains of Esau." 
Obadiah1:9 People of Teman, your soldiers will be terrified. Everyone in Esau's mountains will be cut down with swords." 
Obadiah1:10 You did harmful things to your brothers, the people of Jacob. So you will be covered with shame. You will be destroyed forever." 
Obadiah1:11 Strangers entered the gates of Jerusalem. They cast lots to see what each one would get. They carried off its wealth. When that happened, you just stood there and did nothing. You were like one of them." 
Obadiah1:12 That was a time of trouble for your brothers. So you should not have looked down on them. The people of Judah were destroyed. So you should not have been happy about it. You should not have laughed at them so much when they were in trouble. 
Obadiah1:13 You should not have marched through the gates of my people's city when they were having so much trouble. You should not have looked down on them. You should not have stolen their wealth. 
Obadiah1:14 You waited where the roads cross. You wanted to cut down those who were running away. You should not have done that. You handed over to their enemies those who were still left alive. You should not have done that. They were in trouble. 
Obadiah1:15 The day of the Lord is near for all of the nations. Others will do to you what you have done to them. You will be paid back for what you have done. 
Obadiah1:16 You Edomites polluted my holy mountain of Zion by drinking and celebrating there. So all of the nations will drink from the cup of my anger. And they will keep on drinking from it. They will vanish. It will be as if they had never existed. 
Obadiah1:17 But on Mount Zion some of my people will be left alive. I will save them. Zion will be my holy mountain once again. And the people of Jacob will again receive the land as their own. 
Obadiah1:18 They will be like a fire. Joseph's people will be like a flame. The nation of Esau will be like straw. Jacob's people will set Edom on fire and burn it up. No one will be left alive among Esau's people. The Lord has spoken. 
Obadiah1:19 Israelites from the Negev Desert will take over Esau's mountains. Israelites from the western hills will possess Philistia. They'll take over the territories of Ephraim and Samaria. Israelites from the tribe of Benjamin will possess the land of Gilead. 
Obadiah1:20 Some Israelites were forced to leave their homes. They'll come back to Canaan and possess it all the way to the town of Zarephath. Some people from Jerusalem were taken to the city of Sepharad. They'll return and possess the towns of the Negev Desert. 
Obadiah1:21 Leaders from Mount Zion will go and rule over the mountains of Esau. And the kingdom will belong to the Lord. 
Jonah1:1 A message from the Lord came to Jonah. He was the son of Amittai. The Lord said," 
Jonah1:2 Go to the great city of Nineveh. Preach against it. The sins of its people have come to my attention. 
Jonah1:3 But Jonah ran away from the Lord. He headed for Tarshish. So he went down to the port of Joppa. There he found a ship that was going to Tarshish. He paid the fare and went on board. Then he sailed for Tarshish. He was running away from the Lord. 
Jonah1:4 But the Lord sent a strong wind over the Mediterranean Sea. A wild storm came up. It was so wild that the ship was in danger of breaking apart. 
Jonah1:5 All of the sailors were afraid. Each one cried out to his own god for help. They threw the ship's contents into the sea. They were trying to make the ship lighter. But Jonah had gone below deck. There he lay down and fell into a deep sleep. 
Jonah1:6 The captain went down to him and said, ""How can you sleep? Get up and call out to your god for help! Maybe he'll pay attention to what's happening to us. Then we won't die.""" 
Jonah1:7 The sailors said to one another, ""Come. Let's cast lots to find out who is to blame for getting us into all of this trouble."" So they did. And Jonah was picked." 
Jonah1:8 They asked him, ""What terrible thing have you done to bring all of this trouble on us? Tell us. What do you do for a living? Where do you come from? What is your country? What people do you belong to?""" 
Jonah1:9 He answered, ""I'm a Hebrew. I worship the Lord. He is the God of heaven. He made the sea and the land.""" 
Jonah1:10 They found out he was running away from the Lord. That's because he had told them. Then they became terrified. So they asked him, ""How could you do a thing like that?""" 
Jonah1:11 The sea was getting rougher and rougher. So they asked him, ""What should we do to you to make the sea calm down?""" 
Jonah1:12 Pick me up and throw me into the sea,"" he replied. ""Then it will become calm. I know it's my fault that this terrible storm has come on you.""" 
Jonah1:13 Instead of doing what he said, the men did their best to row back to land. But they couldn't. The sea got even rougher than before." 
Jonah1:14 Then they cried out to the Lord. They prayed, ""Lord, please don't let us die for taking this man's life. After all, he might not be guilty of doing anything wrong. So don't hold us accountable for killing him. Lord, you always do what you want to.""" 
Jonah1:15 Then they took Jonah and threw him overboard. And the stormy sea became calm. 
Jonah1:16 When the men saw what had happened, they began to have great respect for the Lord. They offered a sacrifice to him. And they made promises to him." 
Jonah1:17 But the Lord sent a huge fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was inside the fish for three days and three nights. 
Jonah2:1 From inside the fish Jonah prayed to the Lord his God. 
Jonah2:2 He said, ""When I was in trouble, I called out to you. And you answered me. When I had almost drowned, I called out for help. And you listened to my cry." 
Jonah2:3 You threw me into the Mediterranean Sea. I was in the middle of its waters. They were all around me. All of your rolling waves were sweeping over me. 
Jonah2:4 I said, 'I have been driven away from you. But I will look again toward your holy temple in Jerusalem.'" 
Jonah2:5 I had almost drowned in the waves. The deep waters were all around me. Seaweed was wrapped around my head. 
Jonah2:6 I sank down to the bottom of the mountains. I thought I had died and gone down into the grave forever. But you brought my life up from the very edge of the pit. You are the Lord my God. 
Jonah2:7 When my life was nearly over, I remembered you, Lord. My prayer rose up to you. It reached you in your holy temple in heaven." 
Jonah2:8 Some people worship the worthless statues of their gods. They turn away from the grace you want to give them. 
Jonah2:9 But I will sacrifice a thank offering to you. And I will sing a song of thanks. I will do what I have promised. Lord, you are the one who saves.""" 
Jonah2:10 The Lord gave the fish a command. And it spit Jonah up onto dry land. 
Jonah3:1 A message came to Jonah from the Lord a second time. He said," 
Jonah3:2 Go to the great city of Nineveh. Announce to its people the message I give you. 
Jonah3:3 Jonah obeyed the Lord. He went to Nineveh. It was a very important city. In fact, it took about three days to see all of it." 
Jonah3:4 On the first day, Jonah started into the city. He announced, ""In 40 days Nineveh will be destroyed.""" 
Jonah3:5 The people of Nineveh believed God's warning. They decided not to eat any food for a while. All of them put on black clothes. That's what everyone from the least important of them to the most important did. 
Jonah3:6 The news reached the king of Nineveh. He got up from his throne. He took his royal robes off and dressed himself in black clothes. He sat down in the dust. 
Jonah3:7 Then he sent out a message to the people of Nineveh. He said, ""I and my nobles give this order. ""Don't let any person or animal taste anything. That includes your herds and flocks. People and animals must not eat or drink anything." 
Jonah3:8 Let people and animals alike be covered with black cloth. All of you must call out to God with all your hearts. Stop doing what is evil. Don't harm others. 
Jonah3:9 Who knows? God might take pity on us. He might turn away from his burning anger. Then we won't die. 
Jonah3:10 God saw what they did. They stopped doing what was evil. So he took pity on them. He didn't destroy them as he had said he would. 
Jonah4:1 But Jonah was very upset. He became angry. 
Jonah4:2 He prayed to the Lord and said, ""Lord, isn't this exactly what I thought would happen when I was still at home? That's why I was so quick to run away to Tarshish. I knew that you are gracious. You are tender and kind. You are slow to get angry. You are full of love. You are a God who takes pity on people. You don't want to destroy them." 
Jonah4:3 Lord, take away my life. I'd rather die than live.""" 
Jonah4:4 But the Lord replied, ""Do you have any right to be angry?""" 
Jonah4:5 Jonah left the city. He sat down at a place east of it. There he put some branches over his head. He sat in their shade. He waited to see what would happen to the city. 
Jonah4:6 Then the Lord God sent a vine and made it grow up over Jonah. It gave him more shade for his head. It made him more comfortable. Jonah was very happy he had the vine. 
Jonah4:7 But before sunrise the next day, God sent a worm. It chewed the vine so much that it dried up." 
Jonah4:8 When the sun rose, God sent a burning east wind. The sun beat down on Jonah's head. It made him very weak. He wanted to die. So he said, ""I'd rather die than live.""" 
Jonah4:9 But God said to Jonah, ""Do you have any right to be angry about what happened to the vine?"" ""I do,"" he said. ""In fact, I'm angry enough to die.""" 
Jonah4:10 But the Lord said, ""You have been concerned about this vine. But you did not take care of it. You did not make it grow. It grew up in one night and died the next." 
Jonah4:11 Nineveh has more than 120,000 people. They can't tell right from wrong. Nineveh also has a lot of cattle. So shouldn't I show concern for that great city?""" 
Micah1:1 A message came to Micah from the Lord. He was from the town of Moresheth. The message came while Jotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah were kings of Judah. This is the vision Micah saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. Here is what he said." 
Micah1:2 Listen to me, all of you nations! Earth and everyone who lives in it, pay attention! The Lord and King will be a witness against you. The Lord will speak from his holy temple in heaven." 
Micah1:3 The Lord is about to come down from his home in heaven. He rules over the highest places on earth. 
Micah1:4 The mountains will melt under him like wax near a fire. The valleys will be broken apart by water rushing down a slope. 
Micah1:5 All of that will happen because Jacob's people have done what is wrong. The people of Israel have committed many sins. Who is to blame for the wrong things Jacob has done? Samaria! Who is to blame for the high places where Judah's people worship other gods? Jerusalem! 
Micah1:6 So the Lord says, ""I will turn Samaria into a pile of trash. It will become a place for planting vineyards. I will dump its stones down into the valley. And I will destroy it down to its very foundations." 
Micah1:7 All of the statues of Samaria's gods will be broken to pieces. All of the gifts its people gave to temple prostitutes will be burned with fire. I will destroy all of the statues of its gods. Samaria collected gifts that were paid to temple prostitutes. So the Assyrians will use the gifts to pay their own temple prostitutes. 
Micah1:8 I will sob and cry because Samaria will be destroyed. I'll walk around barefoot. I won't have anything on but my underwear. I'll bark like a wild dog. I'll hoot like an owl. 
Micah1:9 Samaria's wounds can't be healed. The Lord will also judge Judah. Enemies will march up to the very gate of my people. They will reach Jerusalem itself. 
Micah1:10 Don't tell the people of Gath about it. Don't let them see you sob. People in Beth Ophrah, roll in the dust." 
Micah1:11 You who live in the town of Shaphir, leave in shame and without your clothes. Those who live in Zaanan won't come out to help you. The people in Beth Ezel will sob. They won't be able to help keep you safe." 
Micah1:12 Those who live in Maroth will groan with pain as they wait for help. That's because the Lord will bring trouble on them. It will reach the very gate of Jerusalem. 
Micah1:13 You who live in Lachish, get your horses ready to pull their chariots. You trust in military power. That was the beginning of sin for the people of Zion. The wrong things Israel did were also done by you." 
Micah1:14 People of Judah, you might as well say good-by to Moresheth near Gath. The town of Aczib won't give any help to the kings of Israel." 
Micah1:15 An enemy will attack you who live in Mareshah. Israel's glorious leaders will have to run away and hide in the cave of Adullam. 
Micah1:16 The children you enjoy so much will be taken away as prisoners. So shave your heads and sob. Make them as bare as the head of a vulture. 
Micah2:1 How terrible it will be for those who plan to harm others! How terrible for those who make evil plans before they even get out of bed! As soon as daylight comes, they carry them out. That's because they have the power to do it." 
Micah2:2 If they want fields or houses, they take them. They cheat men out of their homes and property." 
Micah2:3 So the Lord says to them, ""I am planning to send trouble on you. You will not be able to save yourselves from it. You will not live so proudly anymore. It will be a time of trouble." 
Micah2:4 At that time people will make fun of you. They will tease you by singing a song of sadness. They will pretend to be you and say, 'We are totally destroyed. Our enemies have divided up our land. The Lord has taken it away from us! He has given our fields to those who turned against us.' """ 
Micah2:5 So you won't even have anyone left in the Lord's community who can divide up the land for you. 
Micah2:6 Don't prophesy,"" the people's prophets say. ""Don't prophesy about bad things. Nothing shameful is going to happen to us.""" 
Micah2:7 People of Jacob, should others say, ""The Lord isn't angry with us. He doesn't do things like that""? The Lord replies, ""What I promise brings good things to those who lead honest lives." 
Micah2:8 But lately my people have attacked one another as if they were enemies. You strip the rich robes off those who happen to pass by. They thought they were as safe as men returning from a battle they had won. 
Micah2:9 You drive the women among my people out of their pleasant homes. You take my blessing away from their children forever. 
Micah2:10 Get up! Leave this land! It is no longer your resting place. You have made it 'unclean.' You have completely destroyed it. 
Micah2:11 Suppose a prophet goes around telling lies. And he prophesies that you will have plenty of wine and beer. Then that kind of prophet would be just right for this nation! 
Micah2:12 People of Jacob, I will gather all of you. I will bring together you who are still left alive in Israel. I will gather you together like sheep in a pen. You will be like a flock in its grasslands. Your country will be filled with people." 
Micah2:13 I will open the way for you to return. I will march in front of you. You will break through the city gates and go free. I am your King. I will pass through the gates in front of you. I will lead the way. 
Micah3:1 Then I said, ""Listen, you leaders of Jacob's people! Pay attention, you rulers of Israel! You should know how to judge others fairly." 
Micah3:2 But you hate what is good. And you love what is evil. You are like someone who tears the skin off my people. You pull the meat off their bones. 
Micah3:3 You eat my people's bodies. You strip their skin off. You break their bones in pieces. You chop them up like meat. You put them in a cooking pot. 
Micah3:4 The time will come when Israel will cry out to the Lord. But he won't answer them. In fact, he'll turn his face away from them. They have done what is evil." 
Micah3:5 The Lord says, ""You prophets are leading my people down the wrong path. If they feed you, you promise them peace. If they do not, you prepare to go to war against them." 
Micah3:6 So night will come on you. But you will not have any visions. Darkness will cover you. But you will not be able to figure out what is going to happen. The sun will set on you prophets. The day will become dark for you. 
Micah3:7 You who see visions will be put to shame. You who try to figure out what is going to happen will be dishonored. All of you will cover your faces. I will not answer you. 
Micah3:8 The Spirit of the Lord has filled me with power. He helps me do what is fair. He makes me brave. Now I'm prepared to tell Jacob's people what they've done wrong. I'm ready to tell Israel they've sinned. 
Micah3:9 Listen to me, you leaders of Jacob's people! Pay attention, you rulers of Israel! You hate to do what is fair. You twist everything that is right." 
Micah3:10 You build up Zion by spilling the blood of others. You build Jerusalem by doing what is evil. 
Micah3:11 Your judges take money from people who want special favors. Your priests teach only if they get paid for it. Your prophets won't tell fortunes unless they receive money. But you still claim to depend on the Lord. You say, ""The Lord is with us. No trouble will come on us.""" 
Micah3:12 So because of what you have done, Zion will be plowed up like a field. Jerusalem will be turned into a pile of trash. The temple hill will be covered with bushes and weeds." 
Micah4:1 In the last days the mountain where the Lord's temple is located will be famous. It will be the most important mountain of all. It will stand out above the hills. And nations will go to it. 
Micah4:2 People from many nations will go there. They will say, ""Come, let us go up to the Lord's mountain. Let's go to the house of Jacob's God. He will teach us how we should live. Then we will live the way he wants us to."" The law of the Lord will be taught at Zion. His message will go out from Jerusalem." 
Micah4:3 He will judge between people from many nations. He'll settle problems among strong nations everywhere. They will hammer their swords into plows. They'll hammer their spears into pruning tools. Nations will not go to war against one another. They won't even train to fight anymore. 
Micah4:4 Every man will have his own vine and fig tree. And no one will make them afraid. That's what the Lord who rules over all has promised. 
Micah4:5 Other nations worship and trust in their gods. But we will worship and obey the Lord. He will be our God for ever and ever. 
Micah4:6 The time is coming when I will gather those who are disabled,"" announces the Lord. ""I will bring together those who were taken away as prisoners. I will gather those I have allowed to suffer." 
Micah4:7 I will make the disabled my faithful people. I will make those who were driven away from their homes a strong nation. I will rule over them on Mount Zion. I will be their King from that time on and forever. 
Micah4:8 Jerusalem, you used to be like a guard tower for my flock. City of Zion, you used to be a place of safety for my people. The glorious kingdom you had before will be given back to you. Once again a king will rule over your people.""" 
Micah4:9 Why are you crying out so loudly now? Don't you have a king? Have your advisers died? Is that why pain comes on you like the pain of a woman having a baby? 
Micah4:10 People of Zion, groan with pain. Cry out like a woman having a baby. Soon you must leave your city. You must camp in the open fields. You will have to go to Babylonia. But that's where the Lord will save you. There he will set you free from the powerful hand of your enemies." 
Micah4:11 But now many nations have gathered together to attack you. They say, ""Let Jerusalem be polluted. We want to see others laugh when Zion suffers!""" 
Micah4:12 But those nations don't know what the Lord has in mind. They don't understand his plan. He will gather them up like bundles of grain. He will take them to his threshing floor. 
Micah4:13 The Lord says, ""People of Zion, get up and crush your enemies. I will make you like a threshing ox. I will give you iron horns and bronze hoofs. So you will crush many nations."" They got their money in the wrong way. But you will set it apart to the Lord. You will give their wealth to the Lord of the whole earth." 
Micah5:1 Jerusalem, you are being attacked. So bring your troops together. Our enemies have surrounded us. They want to slap the face of Israel's ruler." 
Micah5:2 The Lord says, ""Bethlehem, you might not be an important town in the nation of Judah. But out of you will come a ruler over Israel for me. His family line goes back to the early years of your nation. It goes all the way back to days of long ago."" Bethlehem was also called Ephrathah." 
Micah5:3 The Lord will hand his people over to their enemies. That will last until the promised ruler is born. Then his relatives in Judah will return to their land. The Lord will rule over them and the people of Israel. 
Micah5:4 The promised ruler will stand firm and take care of his flock. The Lord will give him the strength to do it. The Lord his God will give him the authority to rule. His people will live safely. His greatness will reach from one end of the earth to the other. 
Micah5:5 And he will bring them peace. The Assyrians will attack our land. Enemies will march through our forts. But we will raise up many shepherds against them. We'll send out against them as many leaders as we need to. 
Micah5:6 They will use their swords to rule over Assyria. They'll rule the land of Nimrod with swords that are ready to strike. The Assyrians will march across our borders and attack our land. But the promised ruler will save us from them. 
Micah5:7 Jacob's people who are still left alive will be scattered among many nations. They will be like dew the Lord has sent. It doesn't wait for a man's command. They will be like rain that falls on the grass. Rain doesn't wait for someone to give it orders. 
Micah5:8 So Jacob's people will be scattered among many nations. They will be like a lion among the animals in the forest. They'll be like a young lion among flocks of sheep. Lions attack and tear as they move along. No one can keep them from killing what they want. 
Micah5:9 Lord, your powerful hand will win the battle over your enemies. All of them will be destroyed." 
Micah5:10 At that time I will destroy your war horses,"" announces the Lord. ""I will smash your chariots." 
Micah5:11 I will destroy the cities in your land. I will tear down all of your forts. 
Micah5:12 I will destroy your worship of evil powers. You will no longer be able to put a spell on anyone. 
Micah5:13 I will destroy the statues of your gods. I will take your sacred stones away from you. You will no longer bow down to the gods your hands have made. 
Micah5:14 I will pull down the poles you used to worship the goddess Asherah. And I will destroy your cities completely. 
Micah5:15 I will pay back the nations that have not obeyed me. My anger will burn against them. 
Micah6:1 Israel, listen to the Lord's message. He says to me, ""Stand up in court. Let the mountains serve as witnesses. Let the hills hear what you have to say.""" 
Micah6:2 Hear the Lord's case, you mountains. Listen, you age-old foundations of the earth. The Lord has a case against his people Israel. He is bringing charges against them." 
Micah6:3 The Lord says, ""My people, what have I done to you? Have I made things too hard for you? Answer me." 
Micah6:4 I brought your people up out of Egypt. I set them free from the land where they were slaves. I sent Moses to lead them. Aaron and Miriam helped him. 
Micah6:5 Remember how Balak, the king of Moab, planned to put a curse on your people. But Balaam, the son of Beor, gave them a blessing instead. Remember their journey from Shittim to Gilgal. I want you to know that I always do what is right.""" 
Micah6:6 The people of Israel say, ""What should we bring with us when we go to worship the Lord? What should we offer the God of heaven when we bow down to him? Should we take burnt offerings to him? Should we sacrifice calves that are a year old?" 
Micah6:7 Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams? Will he take delight in 10,000 rivers of olive oil? Should we offer our oldest sons for the wrong things we've done? Should we sacrifice our own children to pay for our sins?""" 
Micah6:8 The Lord has shown you what is good. He has told you what he requires of you. You must treat people fairly. You must love others faithfully. And you must be very careful to live the way your God wants you to. 
Micah6:9 The Lord is calling out to Jerusalem. And it would be wise to pay attention to him. He says, ""Listen, tribe of Judah and you people who are gathered in the city." 
Micah6:10 You sinful people, should I forget that you got your treasures by stealing them? You use dishonest measures to cheat others. I have placed a curse on that practice." 
Micah6:11 Should I forgive you who use dishonest scales? You use weights that weigh things heavier or lighter than they really are. 
Micah6:12 The rich people among you harm others. You are always telling lies. You try to fool others by what you say. 
Micah6:13 So I will strike you down. I will destroy you because you have sinned so much. 
Micah6:14 You will eat. But you will not be satisfied. Your stomachs will still be empty. You will try to save what you can. But you will not be able to. If you do save something, it will be destroyed in battle." 
Micah6:15 You will plant seeds. But you will not harvest any crops. You will press olives. But you will not use the oil for yourselves. You will crush grapes. But you will not drink the wine that is made from them. 
Micah6:16 You have followed the evil practices of King Omri of Israel. You have done what the family of King Ahab did. You have followed their bad example. So I will let you be destroyed. Others will make fun of you. The nations will laugh at you. 
Micah7:1 I'm suffering very much! I'm like someone who gathers summer fruit in a vineyard after the good fruit has already been picked. No grapes are left to eat. None of the early figs I long for remain. 
Micah7:2 Faithful people have disappeared from the land. Those who are honest are gone. All men hide and wait to spill the blood of others. They use nets to try and trap one another. 
Micah7:3 They are very good at doing what is evil. Rulers require gifts. Judges accept money from people who want special favors. Those who are powerful always get what they want. All of them make evil plans together. 
Micah7:3 They are very good at doing what is evil. Rulers require gifts. Judges accept money from people who want special favors. Those who are powerful always get what they want. All of them make evil plans together. 
Micah7:4 The best of them are as harmful as thorns. The most honest of them are even worse. The time your prophets warned you about has come. God is about to punish you. Panic has taken hold of you. 
Micah7:5 Don't trust your neighbors. Don't put your faith in your friends. Be careful of what you say even to your own wife. 
Micah7:6 Sons don't honor their fathers. Daughters refuse to obey their mothers. Daughters-in-law are against their mothers-in-law. A man's enemies are the members of his own family. 
Micah7:7 So I will look to the Lord. I'll put my trust in God my Savior. He will hear me. 
Micah7:8 The people of Jerusalem say, ""Don't laugh when we suffer, you enemies of ours! We have fallen. But we'll get up. Even though we sit in the dark, the Lord will give us light." 
Micah7:9 We've sinned against the Lord. So he is angry with us. That will continue until he takes up our case. Then he'll do what is right for us. He'll bring us out into the light. Then we'll see him save us. 
Micah7:10 The people of Nineveh will see it too. And they will be put to shame. After all, they said to us, 'Where is the Lord your God?' But we will see them destroyed. Soon they will be stomped on like mud in the streets.""" 
Micah7:11 People of Jerusalem, the time will come when your walls will be rebuilt. Land will be added to your territory." 
Micah7:12 At that time your people will come back to you. They'll return from Assyria and the cities of Egypt. They'll come from the countries between Egypt and the Euphrates River. They'll return from the lands between the seas. They'll come back from the countries between the mountains. 
Micah7:13 But the rest of the earth will be deserted. The people who live in it have done many evil things. 
Micah7:14 Lord, be like a shepherd to your people. Take good care of them. They are your flock. They live by themselves in the safety of a forest. Rich grasslands are all around them. Let them eat grass in Bashan and Gilead just as they did long ago." 
Micah7:15 The Lord says to his people, ""I showed your people my wonders when they came out of Egypt long ago. In the same way, I will show them to you.""" 
Micah7:16 When the nations see those wonders, they will be put to shame. All of their power will be taken away from them. They will be so amazed that they won't be able to speak or hear." 
Micah7:17 They'll be forced to eat dust like a snake. They'll be like creatures that have to crawl on the ground. They'll come out of their dens trembling with fear. They'll show respect for the Lord our God. They will also have respect for his people. 
Micah7:18 Lord, who is a God like you? You forgive sin. You forgive your people when they do what is wrong. You don't stay angry forever. Instead, you take delight in showing your faithful love to them." 
Micah7:19 Once again you will show loving concern for us. You will completely wipe out the evil things we've done. You will throw all of our sins into the bottom of the sea. 
Micah7:20 You will be true to Jacob's people. You will show your faithful love to Abraham's children. You will do what you promised to do for our people when you took an oath long ago. 
Nahum1:1 Here is a message the Lord gave Nahum in a vision about Nineveh. It is written on a scroll. Nahum was from the town of Elkosh. Here is what he said. 
Nahum1:2 The Lord is a jealous God who punishes people. He pays them back for the evil things they do. His anger burns against them. The Lord punishes his enemies. He holds his anger back until the right time to use it. 
Nahum1:3 The Lord is slow to get angry. He is very powerful. The Lord will not let guilty people go without punishing them. When he marches out, he stirs up winds and storms. Clouds are the dust kicked up by his feet." 
Nahum1:4 He controls the seas. He dries them up. He makes all of the rivers run dry. Bashan and Mount Carmel dry up. The flowers in Lebanon fade. 
Nahum1:5 He causes the mountains to shake. The hills melt away. The earth trembles because he is there. So do the world and all those who live in it. 
Nahum1:6 Who can stand firm when his anger burns? Who can live when he is angry? His anger blazes out like fire. He smashes the rocks to pieces. 
Nahum1:7 The Lord is good. When people are in trouble, they can go to him for safety. He takes good care of those who trust in him." 
Nahum1:8 But he will destroy Nineveh with a powerful flood. He will chase his enemies into the darkness of punishment. 
Nahum1:9 The Lord will put an end to anything they plan against him. He won't allow Assyria to win the battle over his people a second time. 
Nahum1:10 His enemies will be tangled up among thorns. Their wine will make them drunk. They'll be burned up like dry straw. 
Nahum1:11 Nineveh, a king has marched out from you. He makes evil plans against the Lord. He gives harmful advice." 
Nahum1:12 The Lord says, ""His army has many soldiers. Other nations are helping them. But they will be cut off and pass away. Judah, I punished you. But I will not do it anymore." 
Nahum1:13 Now I will break Assyria's yoke off your neck. I will tear off the ropes that hold you. 
Nahum1:14 Nineveh, the Lord has given an order concerning you. He has said, ""You will not have any children to carry on your name. I will destroy the wooden and metal statues that are in the temple of your gods. I will get your grave ready for you. You are worthless.""" 
Nahum1:15 Look at the mountains of Judah! I see a messenger running to bring good news! He's telling us that peace has come! People of Judah, celebrate your feasts. Carry out your promises. The evil Assyrians won't attack you again. They'll be completely destroyed." 
Nahum2:1 Nineveh, armies are coming to attack you. Guard the forts! Watch the roads! Get ready! Gather all of your strength!" 
Nahum2:2 Assyria once took everything of value from God's people. Its army destroyed all of their vines. But the Lord will bring back the glory of Jacob's people. He'll make Israel glorious again. 
Nahum2:3 The shields of the soldiers attacking Nineveh are red. The armies are dressed in bright red uniforms. The metal on their chariots flashes when they are prepared for war. Their spears are ready to use. 
Nahum2:4 The chariots race through the main streets. They rush back and forth through them. They look like flaming torches. They dart around like lightning. 
Nahum2:5 The commander of the attackers sends for his special troops. But they trip and fall on their way. They run toward the city wall. They keep their shield in front of them. 
Nahum2:6 They open the gates that hold back the waters of the river. And the palace falls down. 
Nahum2:7 The attackers order that the city's people be taken away as prisoners. The female slaves cry like sad doves. They beat their chests. 
Nahum2:8 Nineveh is like a pool. Its water is draining away. Stop running away! someone cries out. But no one turns back. 
Nahum2:9 Steal the silver! the attackers shout. Grab the gold! The supply is endless. There is plenty of wealth among all of the city's treasures. 
Nahum2:10 Nineveh is destroyed, robbed and stripped! Hearts melt away in fear. Knees give way. Bodies tremble with fear. Everyone's face turns pale." 
Nahum2:11 Assyria is like a lion. Where is the lions' den now? Where did they feed their cubs? Where did all of the lions go? In their den they had nothing to fear. 
Nahum2:12 The lion killed enough for his cubs to eat. He choked what he caught for his mate. He filled his home with what he had killed. He brought to his dens what he had caught. 
Nahum2:13 Nineveh, I am against you,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""I will burn up your chariots with fire. Your young lions will be killed with swords. I will leave you nothing on earth to catch. The voices of your messengers will no longer be heard.""" 
Nahum3:1 How terrible it will be for Nineveh! It is a city of murderers! It is full of liars! It's filled with stolen goods! The killing never stops! 
Nahum3:2 Whips crack! Wheels clack! Horses charge! Chariots rumble! 
Nahum3:3 Horsemen attack! Swords flash! Spears gleam! Many people die. Dead bodies pile up. They can't even be counted. People trip over them. 
Nahum3:4 All of that was caused by the evil longings of the prostitute Nineveh. That woman who practiced evil magic was very beautiful. She used her sinful charms to make slaves out of the nations. She worshiped evil powers in order to trap others. 
Nahum3:5 Nineveh, I am against you,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""I will pull your skirts up over your face. I will show the nations your naked body. Kingdoms will make fun of your shame." 
Nahum3:6 I will throw garbage at you. I will look down on you. I will make an example out of you. 
Nahum3:7 All those who see you will run away from you. They will say, 'Nineveh is destroyed. Who will sob over it?' Where can I find someone to comfort your people?""" 
Nahum3:8 Nineveh, are you better than Thebes on the Nile River? There was water all around that city. The river helped to keep it safe. The waters were like a wall around it." 
Nahum3:9 Cush and Egypt gave it all of the strength it needed. Put and Libya also helped it. 
Nahum3:10 But Thebes was captured anyway. Its people were taken away as prisoners. Its babies were smashed to pieces at every street corner. The Assyrian soldiers cast lots for all of its great leaders. They put them in chains and made slaves out of them. 
Nahum3:11 People of Nineveh, you too will get drunk. You will try to hide from your enemies. You will look for a place of safety." 
Nahum3:12 All of your forts are like fig trees that have their first ripe fruit on them. When the trees are shaken, the figs fall into the mouths of those who eat them." 
Nahum3:13 Look at your troops. All of them are weak. The gates of your forts are wide open to your enemies. Fire has destroyed their heavy metal bars. 
Nahum3:14 Prepare for the attack by storing up water! Make your walls as strong as you can! Make some bricks out of clay! Mix the mud to hold them together! Use them to repair the walls! 
Nahum3:15 In spite of all of your hard work, fire will burn you up inside your city. Your enemies will cut you down with their swords. They will destroy you just as grasshoppers eat up crops. Multiply like grasshoppers! Increase your numbers like locusts!" 
Nahum3:16 You have more traders than the number of stars in the sky. But like locusts they strip the land. Then they fly away. 
Nahum3:17 Your guards are like grasshoppers. Your officials are like large numbers of locusts. They settle in the walls on a cold day. But when the sun appears, they fly away. And no one knows where they go." 
Nahum3:18 King of Assyria, your leaders are asleep. Your nobles lie down to rest. Your people are scattered on the mountains. No one is left to gather them together." 
Nahum3:19 Nothing can heal your wounds. You will die of them. All those who hear the news about you clap their hands because you have fallen from power. All of them suffered because you never showed them any pity. 
Habakkuk1:1 This is a vision the prophet Habakkuk received from the Lord. Here is what Habakkuk said. 
Habakkuk1:2 Lord, how long do I have to call out for help? Why don't you listen to me? How long must I keep telling you that things are terrible? Why don't you save us?" 
Habakkuk1:3 Why do you make me watch while people treat others so unfairly? Why do you put up with the wrong things they are doing? I have to look at death. People are harming others. They are arguing and fighting all the time. 
Habakkuk1:4 The law can't do what it's supposed to do. Fairness never comes out on top. Sinful people surround those who do what is right. So people are never treated fairly. 
Habakkuk1:5 The Lord replies, ""Look at the nations. Watch them. Be totally amazed at what you see. I am going to do something in your days that you would never believe. You would not believe it even if someone told you about it." 
Habakkuk1:6 I am going to send the armies of Babylonia to attack you. They are very mean. They move quickly. They sweep across the whole earth. They take over places that do not belong to them. 
Habakkuk1:7 They terrify others. They do not recognize any laws but their own. That is how proud they are. 
Habakkuk1:8 Their horses are faster than leopards. They are meaner than wolves in the dark. Their horsemen charge straight into battle. They ride in from far away. They come down like an eagle diving for its food. 
Habakkuk1:9 All of them are ready to destroy others. Their huge armies advance like a wind out of the desert. They gather prisoners like sand. 
Habakkuk1:10 They laugh at kings and make fun of rulers. They laugh at all of the cities that have high walls around them. They build dirt ramps against the walls and capture the cities. 
Habakkuk1:11 They sweep past like the wind. Then they go on their way. They are guilty. They worship their own strength. 
Habakkuk1:12 Lord, haven't you existed forever? You are my holy God. So we won't die, will we? Lord, you have appointed the Babylonians to punish your people. My Rock, you have chosen them to judge us." 
Habakkuk1:13 Your eyes are too pure to look at what is evil. You can't put up with the wrong things people do. So why do you put up with those who can't be trusted? The evil Babylonians swallow up those who are more godly than themselves. So why are you silent? 
Habakkuk1:14 You have made men as if they were only fish in the sea. They are like sea creatures that don't have a ruler. 
Habakkuk1:15 The evil Babylonians pull all of them up with hooks. They catch them in their nets. They gather them up. So they celebrate. They are glad. 
Habakkuk1:16 They offer sacrifices to their nets. They burn incense to them. Their nets allow them to live in great comfort. They enjoy the finest food. 
Habakkuk1:17 Are you going to let them keep on emptying their nets? Will they go on destroying nations without showing them any mercy? 
Habakkuk2:1 I will go up to the lookout tower. I'll station myself on the city wall. I'll wait to see how the Lord will reply to me. Then I'll try to figure out how to answer him. 
Habakkuk2:2 The Lord replies, ""Write down the message I am showing you in a vision. Write it clearly on the tablets you use. Then a messenger can read it and run to announce it." 
Habakkuk2:3 The message I give you waits for the time I have appointed. It speaks about what is going to happen. And all of it will come true. It might take a while. But wait for it. You can be sure it will come. It will happen when I want it to. 
Habakkuk2:4 The Babylonians are very proud. What they want is not good. But the one who is right with God will live by faith. 
Habakkuk2:5 Wine makes the Babylonians do foolish things. They are proud. They never rest. Like the grave, they are always hungry for more. Like death, they are never satisfied. They gather all of the nations to themselves. They take their people away as prisoners." 
Habakkuk2:6 Won't those people laugh at the Babylonians? Won't they make fun of them? They will say to them, "" 'How terrible it will be for you who pile up stolen goods! You get rich by cheating others. How long will that go on?" 
Habakkuk2:7 Those who owe you money will suddenly rise up. You charge them too much interest. So they will wake up and make you tremble with fear. Then they will take away everything you have. 
Habakkuk2:8 You have robbed many nations. So the nations that are left will rob you. You have spilled man's blood. You have destroyed lands and cities and everyone in them.' 
Habakkuk2:9 How terrible it will be for the Babylonians! They build their kingdom with money they gained by cheating others. They have tried to make the kingdom as secure as possible. After all, they did not want to be destroyed." 
Habakkuk2:10 They have planned to wipe out many nations. But they have brought shame on their own kingdom. So they must pay with their own lives. 
Habakkuk2:11 The stones in the walls of their homes will cry out. And the wooden beams will echo that cry. 
Habakkuk2:12 How terrible it will be for the Babylonians! They build cities by spilling the blood of others. They establish towns by committing crimes. 
Habakkuk2:13 I am the Lord who rules over all. Human effort is no better than wood that feeds a fire. So the nations wear themselves out for nothing. 
Habakkuk2:14 The oceans are full of water. In the same way, the earth will be filled with the knowledge of my glory." 
Habakkuk2:15 How terrible it will be for the Babylonians! They give drinks to their neighbors. They pour the drinks from wineskins until their neighbors are drunk. They want to look at their naked bodies. 
Habakkuk2:16 But the Babylonians will be filled with shame instead of glory. So now it is their turn to drink and be stripped of their clothes. The cup of anger in my powerful right hand is going to punish them. They will be covered with shame instead of glory. 
Habakkuk2:17 The harm they have done to Lebanon will bring them down. Because they have killed so many animals, animals will terrify them. They have spilled man's blood. They have destroyed lands and cities and everyone in them." 
Habakkuk2:18 If someone carves a statue of a god, what is it worth? What value is there in a god that teaches lies? The one who trusts in another god worships his own creation. He makes statues of gods that can't speak." 
Habakkuk2:19 How terrible it will be for the Babylonians! They say to a wooden god, 'Come to life!' They say to a stone god, 'Wake up!' Can those gods give advice? They are covered with gold and silver. They can't even breathe." 
Habakkuk2:20 But I am in my holy temple. Let the whole earth be silent in front of me. 
Habakkuk3:1 This is a prayer of the prophet Habakkuk. It is on shigionoth. Here is what he said. 
Habakkuk3:2 Lord, I know how famous you are. I have great respect for you because of your mighty acts. Do them again for us. Make them known in our time. When you are angry, please show us your tender love." 
Habakkuk3:3 God, you came from Teman. You, the Holy One, came from Mount Paran. [Selah Your glory covered the heavens. Your praise filled the earth." 
Habakkuk3:4 Your glory was like the sunrise. Rays of light flashed from your mighty hand. Your power was hidden there. 
Habakkuk3:5 You sent plagues ahead of you. Sickness followed behind you. 
Habakkuk3:6 When you stood up, the earth shook. When you looked at the nations, they trembled with fear. The age-old mountains crumbled. The ancient hills fell down. Your mighty acts will last forever." 
Habakkuk3:7 I saw the tents of Cushan in trouble. The people of Midian were suffering greatly. 
Habakkuk3:8 Lord, did your anger burn against the rivers? Were you angry with the streams? Were you angry with the Red Sea? You rode your horses and chariots to overcome it." 
Habakkuk3:9 You got your bow ready to use. You asked for many arrows. [Selah You broke up the surface of the earth with rivers. 
Habakkuk3:10 The mountains saw you and shook. Floods of water swept by. The sea roared. It lifted its waves high. 
Habakkuk3:11 The sun and moon stood still in the sky. They stopped because your flying arrows flashed by. Your gleaming spear shone like lightning. 
Habakkuk3:12 When you were angry, you marched across the earth. Because of your anger you destroyed the nations." 
Habakkuk3:13 You came out to set your people free. You saved your chosen ones. You crushed Pharaoh, the leader of that evil land of Egypt. You stripped him from head to foot. [Selah" 
Habakkuk3:14 His soldiers rushed out to scatter us. They were laughing at us. They thought they would easily destroy us. They saw us as weak people who were trying to hide. So you wounded Pharaoh's head with his own spear. 
Habakkuk3:15 Your horses charged into the Red Sea. They stirred up the great waters. 
Habakkuk3:16 I listened and my heart pounded. My lips trembled at the sound. My bones seemed to rot. And my legs shook. But I will be patient. I'll wait for the day of trouble to come on Babylonia. It's the nation that is attacking us. 
Habakkuk3:17 The fig trees might not bud. The vines might not produce any grapes. The olive crop might fail. The fields might not produce any food. There might not be any sheep in the pens. There might not be any cattle in the barns. 
Habakkuk3:18 But I will still be glad because of what the Lord has done. God my Savior fills me with joy. 
Habakkuk3:19 The Lord and King gives me strength. He makes my feet like the feet of a deer. He helps me walk on the highest places. This prayer is for the director of music. It should be sung while being accompanied by stringed instruments. 
Zephaniah1:1 A message came to Zephaniah from the Lord. He was the son of Cushi. Cushi was the son of Gedaliah. Gedaliah was the son of Amariah. Amariah was the son of King Hezekiah. The Lord spoke to Zephaniah during the rule of Josiah. He was king of Judah and the son of Amon. 
Zephaniah1:2 I will sweep away everything from the face of the earth,"" announces the Lord." 
Zephaniah1:3 I will destroy people and animals alike. I will wipe out the birds of the air and the fish in the waters. I will destroy sinful people along with their gods. I will wipe man off the face of the earth,"" announces the Lord." 
Zephaniah1:4 I will reach out my powerful hand against Judah. I will punish all those who live in Jerusalem. I will cut off from that place what is left of Baal worship. The officials and priests who serve other gods will be removed. 
Zephaniah1:5 I will wipe out those who bow down on their roofs to worship all of the stars. I will destroy those who take oaths not only in my name but also in the name of Molech. 
Zephaniah1:6 I will cut off those who stop following me. They no longer look to me or ask me for advice. 
Zephaniah1:7 Be silent in front of me. I am the Lord and King. The day of the Lord is near. I have prepared a sacrifice. I have set apart for myself the people I invited. 
Zephaniah1:8 When my sacrifice is ready to be offered, I will punish the princes and the king's sons. I will also judge all those who follow the practices of other nations." 
Zephaniah1:9 At that time I will punish all those who worship other gods. They fill the temples of their gods with lies and other harmful things. 
Zephaniah1:10 At that time people at the Fish Gate in Jerusalem will cry out,"" announces the Lord. ""So will those at the New Quarter. The buildings on the hills will come crashing down with a loud noise." 
Zephaniah1:11 Cry out, you who live in the market places. All of your merchants will be wiped out. Those who trade in silver will be destroyed." 
Zephaniah1:12 At that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps. I will punish those who are so contented. They are like wine that has not been shaken up. They think, 'The Lord won't do anything. It doesn't matter whether it's good or bad.'" 
Zephaniah1:13 Their wealth will be stolen. Their houses will be destroyed. They will build houses. But they will not live in them. They will plant vineyards. But they will not drink the wine they produce. 
Zephaniah1:14 The great day of the Lord is near. In fact, it is coming quickly. Listen! The cries on that day will be bitter. Even soldiers will cry out in fear." 
Zephaniah1:15 At that time I will pour out my anger. There will be great suffering and pain. It will be a day of horrible trouble. It will be a time of darkness and gloom. It will be filled with the blackest clouds. 
Zephaniah1:16 Trumpet blasts and battle cries will be heard. Soldiers will attack cities that have forts and corner towers. 
Zephaniah1:17 I will bring trouble on the people. They will trip and fall as if they were blind. They have sinned against me. Their blood will be poured out like dust. Their bodies will lie rotting on the ground. 
Zephaniah1:18 Their silver and gold will not be able to save them on the day I pour out my anger. The whole world will be burned up when my jealous anger blazes out. Everyone who lives on earth will come to a sudden end. 
Zephaniah2:1 Gather your people together, you shameful nation of Judah! Gather them together!" 
Zephaniah2:2 Come together before the appointed time arrives. The day of the Lord will sweep in like straw blown by the wind. Soon the Lord's anger will burn against you. The day of his anger will come on you. 
Zephaniah2:3 So look to him, all of you people in the land who worship him faithfully. You always do what he commands you to do. Continue to do what is right. Don't be proud. Then perhaps the Lord will keep you safe on the day he pours out his anger on the world." 
Zephaniah2:4 Gaza will be deserted. Ashkelon will be destroyed. Ashdod will be emptied out at noon. Ekron will be pulled up by its roots. 
Zephaniah2:5 How terrible it will be for you Kerethites who live by the Mediterranean Sea! Philistia, the Lord has spoken against you. What happened to Canaan will happen to you. The Lord says, ""I will destroy you. No one will be left.""" 
Zephaniah2:6 The Kerethites live in the land by the sea. It will become a place for shepherds and sheep pens. 
Zephaniah2:7 It will belong to those who are still left alive among the people of Judah. They will find grasslands there. They will take over the houses in Ashkelon and live in them. The Lord their God will take care of them. He will bless them with great success again. 
Zephaniah2:8 The Lord says, ""I have heard Moab make fun of my people. The Ammonites also laughed at them. They told them that bad things would happen to their land." 
Zephaniah2:9 So Moab will become like Sodom,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""Ammon will be like Gomorrah. Weeds and salt pits will cover those countries. They will be dry and empty deserts forever. Those who are still left alive among my people will take all of their valuable things. So they will receive those lands as their own. And that is just as sure as I am alive."" The Lord is the God of Israel." 
Zephaniah2:10 Moab and Ammon will be judged because they are so proud. They made fun of the Lord's people. They laughed at them. 
Zephaniah2:11 The Lord who rules over all will terrify Moab and Ammon. He will destroy all of the gods on earth. Then the nations on every shore will worship him. All of them will serve him in their own lands. 
Zephaniah2:12 The Lord says, ""People of Cush, you too will be killed with my sword.""" 
Zephaniah2:13 The Lord will reach out his powerful hand against the north. He will destroy Assyria. He'll leave Nineveh totally empty. It will be as dry as a desert. 
Zephaniah2:14 Flocks and herds will lie down there. So will creatures of every kind. Desert owls and screech owls will rest on its pillars. Their cries will echo through the windows. The doorways will be full of trash. The cedar beams will be showing. 
Zephaniah2:15 Nineveh is a carefree city. It lived in safety. It said to itself, ""I am like a god. No one is greater than I am."" But it has been destroyed. Wild animals make their home there. All those who pass by laugh and shake their fists at it." 
Zephaniah3:1 How terrible it will be for Jerusalem! Its people crush others. They refuse to obey the Lord. They are unclean. 
Zephaniah3:2 They don't obey anyone. They don't accept the Lord's warnings. They don't trust in him. They don't ask their God for his help. 
Zephaniah3:3 Their officials are like roaring lions. Their rulers are like wolves that hunt in the evening. They don't leave anything to eat in the morning. 
Zephaniah3:4 Their prophets are proud. They can't be trusted. Their priests pollute the temple. They break the law they teach others to obey. 
Zephaniah3:5 In spite of that, the Lord is good to Jerusalem. He never does anything that is wrong. Every morning he does what is fair. Each new day he does the right thing. But those who do what is wrong aren't even ashamed of it." 
Zephaniah3:6 The Lord says to his people, ""I have cut off other nations. I have wiped out their forts. I have left their streets deserted. No one walks along them. Their cities are destroyed. Not even one person is left." 
Zephaniah3:7 I said to you people of Jerusalem, 'Because I cut off other nations, you will have respect for me. Now you will accept my warning.' I wish you had returned to me. Then your homes would not have been torn down. And I would not have had to punish you so much. But you still wanted to go on sinning in every way you could." 
Zephaniah3:8 So wait for me to come as judge,"" announces the Lord. ""Wait for the day I will stand up to witness against all sinners. I have decided to gather the nations. I will bring the kingdoms together. And I will pour out all of my burning anger on them. The fire of my jealous anger will burn the whole world up." 
Zephaniah3:9 But then I will purify what all of the nations say. And they will use their words to worship me. They will serve me together. 
Zephaniah3:10 My scattered people, you will come to me from beyond the rivers of Cush. You will worship me. You will bring me offerings." 
Zephaniah3:11 You have done many wrong things to me. But at that time you will not be put to shame anymore. Then I will remove from this city those who take delight in their pride. You will never be proud again on my holy mountain of Zion. 
Zephaniah3:12 But inside your city I will leave those who are not proud at all. They trust in me. 
Zephaniah3:13 Those who are still left alive in Israel will not do anything wrong. They will not tell any lies. They will not say anything to fool others. They will eat and lie down in peace. And no one will make them afraid. 
Zephaniah3:14 People of Zion, sing! Israel, shout loudly! People of Jerusalem, be glad! Let your hearts be full of joy." 
Zephaniah3:15 The Lord has stopped punishing you. He has made your enemies turn away from you. The Lord is the King of Israel. He is with you. You will never again be afraid that others will harm you. 
Zephaniah3:16 The time is coming when people will say to Jerusalem, ""Zion, don't be afraid. Don't give up." 
Zephaniah3:17 The Lord your God is with you. He is mighty enough to save you. He will take great delight in you. The quietness of his love will calm you down. He will sing with joy because of you. 
Zephaniah3:18 The Lord says to his people, ""You used to celebrate my appointed feasts in Jerusalem. You are sad because you can't do that anymore. So others make fun of those feasts. That was a heavy load for you to carry. But I will bring you back to your city." 
Zephaniah3:19 At that time I will punish all those who crushed you. I will save those among you who are disabled. I will gather those who have been scattered. I will give you praise and honor in every land where you were put to shame. 
Zephaniah3:20 At that time I will gather you together. And I will bring you home. I will give you honor and praise among all of the nations on earth. I will bless you with great success again,"" says the Lord." 
Haggai1:1 A message came to the prophet Haggai from the Lord. Haggai gave it to Zerubbabel and Jeshua. It came on the first day of the sixth month of the second year that Darius was king of Persia. Zerubbabel was governor of Judah and the son of Shealtiel. Jeshua was high priest and the son of Jehozadak. Here is what Haggai said. 
Haggai1:2 The Lord who rules over all says, ""The people of Judah are saying, 'The time hasn't come yet for the Lord's temple to be rebuilt.' """ 
Haggai1:3 So the message came to me from the Lord. He said," 
Haggai1:4 My temple is still destroyed. In spite of that, you are living in your houses that have beautiful wooden walls.""" 
Haggai1:5 The Lord who rules over all says, ""Think carefully about how you are living." 
Haggai1:6 You have planted many seeds. But the crops you have gathered are small. So you eat. But you never have enough. You drink. But you are never full. You put your clothes on. But you are not warm. You earn your pay. But it will not buy everything you need. 
Haggai1:7 He continues, ""Think carefully about how you are living." 
Haggai1:8 Go up into the mountains. Bring logs down. Use them to rebuild my house. Then I will enjoy it. And you will honor me,"" says the Lord." 
Haggai1:9 You expected a lot. But you can see what a small amount it turned out to be,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""I blew away what you brought home. Why? Because my temple is still destroyed. In spite of that, each one of you is busy with your own house." 
Haggai1:10 So because of what you have done, the heavens have held back the dew. And the earth has not produced its crops." 
Haggai1:11 I ordered the rain not to fall on the fields and mountains. Then the ground did not produce any grain. There were not enough grapes to make fresh wine. The trees did not bear enough olives to make oil. People and cattle suffered. All of your hard work failed. 
Haggai1:12 Then Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and the high priest Jeshua, the son of Jehozadak, obeyed the Lord their God. So did all of the Lord's people who were still left alive. He had given his message to them through me. He had sent me to speak to them. And the people had respect for him." 
Haggai1:13 I was the Lord's messenger. So I gave his message to the people. I told them, ""The Lord announces, 'I am with you.' """ 
Haggai1:14 So the Lord stirred up the spirits of Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah, and the high priest Jeshua. He also stirred up the rest of the people to help them. Then everyone began to work on the temple of the Lord who rules over all. He is their God." 
Haggai1:15 It was the 24th day of the sixth month of the second year that Darius was king. 
Haggai2:1 A second message came to me from the Lord. It came on the 21st day of the seventh month. The Lord said," 
Haggai2:2 Speak to Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah and the son of Shealtiel. Also speak to the high priest Jeshua, the son of Jehozadak. And speak to all of my people who are still left alive. Ask them," 
Haggai2:3 'Did any of you who are here see how beautiful this temple used to be? How does it look to you now? It doesn't look so good, does it?" 
Haggai2:4  'But be strong, Zerubbabel,' announces the Lord. 'Be strong, Jeshua. Be strong, all of you people in the land,' announces the Lord. 'Start rebuilding. I am with you,' announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Haggai2:5 'That is what I promised you when you came out of Egypt. My Spirit continues to be with you. So do not be afraid.' 
Haggai2:6 The Lord says, ""In a little while I will shake the heavens and the earth once more. I will also shake the ocean and the dry land." 
Haggai2:7 I will shake all of the nations. Then what they consider to be priceless will come to my temple. And I will fill the temple with glory,"" says the Lord who rules over all." 
Haggai2:8 The silver belongs to me. So does the gold,"" announces the Lord." 
Haggai2:9 The new temple will be more beautiful than the first one was,"" says the Lord. ""And in this place I will give peace to my people,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Haggai2:10 A third message came to me from the Lord. It came on the 24th day of the ninth month of the second year that Darius was king. 
Haggai2:11 The Lord who rules over all speaks. He says, ""Ask the priests what the law says." 
Haggai2:12 Suppose someone carries holy meat in the clothes he is wearing. And the clothes touch some bread or stew. Or they touch some wine, olive oil or other food. Then do those things also become holy?"" The priests answered, ""No.""" 
Haggai2:13 So I said, ""Suppose someone is made 'unclean' by touching a dead body. And then he touches one of those things. Does it become 'unclean' too?"" ""Yes,"" the priests replied. ""It does.""" 
Haggai2:14 Then I said, ""The Lord announces, 'That is how I look at these people and this nation. Anything they do and anything they sacrifice on the altar is ""unclean.""" 
Haggai2:15  'Now think carefully about the time before one stone was laid on top of another in my temple. 
Haggai2:16 People went to get 20 measures of grain. But they could find only 10. They went to where the wine was stored to get 50 measures. But only 20 were there. 
Haggai2:17 You worked very hard to produce all of those things. But I struck them with rot, mold and hail. And you still did not turn to me,' announces the Lord." 
Haggai2:18  'It is the 24th day of the ninth month. From this day on, think carefully about the day when the foundation of my temple was laid. Think about it carefully." 
Haggai2:19 Are any seeds still left in your barns? Until now, your vines and fig trees have not produced any fruit. Your pomegranate and olive trees have not produced any either. "" 'But from this day on I will bless you.' """ 
Haggai2:20 A final message came to me from the Lord. It also came on the 24th day of the ninth month. He said," 
Haggai2:21 Speak to Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah. Tell him I will shake the heavens and the earth." 
Haggai2:22 I will throw down royal thrones. I will smash the power of other kingdoms. I will destroy chariots and their drivers. Horses and their riders will fall. They will be killed with the swords of their relatives. 
Haggai2:23  'Zerubbabel, at that time I will pick you,' announces the Lord. 'You are my servant,' announces the Lord. 'You will be like a ring that has my royal seal on it. I have chosen you,' announces the Lord who rules over all.""" 
Zechariah1:1 A message came to the prophet Zechariah from the Lord. It was the eighth month of the second year that Darius was king of Persia. Zechariah was the son of Berekiah. Berekiah was the son of Iddo. Here is what Zechariah said. 
Zechariah1:2 The Lord who rules over all was very angry with our people years ago. 
Zechariah1:3 And now he says to us, ""Return to me. Then I will return to you,"" announces the Lord." 
Zechariah1:4 Do not be like your people years ago. The earlier prophets gave them my message. I said, 'Stop doing what is evil. Turn away from your sinful practices.' But they would not listen to me. They would not pay any attention,"" announces the Lord." 
Zechariah1:5 Where are those people now? And what about my prophets? Do they live forever? 
Zechariah1:6 I commanded my servants the prophets what to say. I told them what I planned to do. But your people refused to obey me. So I had to punish them. Then they had a change of heart. They said, 'The Lord who rules over all has punished us because of how we have lived. He was fair and right to do that. He has done to us just what he decided to do.' """ 
Zechariah1:7 During the second year that Darius was king, a message came to me from the Lord. It was the 24th day of the 11th month. That's the month of Shebat." 
Zechariah1:8 I had a vision at night. I saw a man riding a red horse. He was standing among the myrtle trees in a valley. Behind him were red, brown and white horses." 
Zechariah1:9 An angel was talking with me. I asked him, ""Sir, what are these?"" He answered, ""I will show you what they are.""" 
Zechariah1:10 Then the man who was standing among the myrtle trees said, ""They are the messengers the Lord has sent out. He told them to go all through the earth.""" 
Zechariah1:11 They brought a report to the angel of the Lord. He was standing among the myrtle trees. They said to him, ""We have gone all through the earth. We've found the whole world enjoying peace and rest.""" 
Zechariah1:12 Then the angel of the Lord spoke up. He said, ""Lord, you rule over all. How long will you keep from showing your tender love to Jerusalem? How long will you keep it from the towns of Judah? You have been angry with them for 70 years.""" 
Zechariah1:13 So the Lord replied with kind and comforting words. He spoke them to the angel who talked with me. 
Zechariah1:14 Then the angel said, ""Announce this message. Say, 'The Lord who rules over all says, ""I am very jealous for my people in Jerusalem and Zion." 
Zechariah1:15 But I am very angry with the nations that feel secure. I was only a little angry with my people. But the nations went too far and tried to wipe them out. 
Zechariah1:16  'So the Lord says, ""I will return to Jerusalem. I will show its people my tender love. My temple will be rebuilt there. Workers will use a measuring line when they rebuild Jerusalem,"" announces the Lord." 
Zechariah1:17  'He says, ""My towns will be filled with good things once more. I will comfort Zion. And I will choose Jerusalem again."" ' """ 
Zechariah1:18 Then I looked up and saw four animal horns. 
Zechariah1:19 I spoke to the angel who was talking with me. What are these horns? I asked. He said, ""They are the powerful nations that scattered Judah, Israel and Jerusalem.""" 
Zechariah1:20 Then the Lord showed me four skilled workers. 
Zechariah1:21 I asked, ""What are they coming to do?"" He answered, ""They are the powerful nations that scattered the people of Judah. That made them helpless. But the workers have come to terrify the horns. They will destroy the power of those nations. They had used their power to scatter Judah's people.""" 
Zechariah2:1 Then I looked up and saw a man. He was holding a measuring line. 
Zechariah2:2 Where are you going? I asked. To measure Jerusalem,"" he answered. ""I want to find out how wide and how long it is.""" 
Zechariah2:3 Then the angel who was talking with me left. Another angel came over to him. 
Zechariah2:4 He said to him, ""Run! Tell that young man Zechariah, 'Jerusalem will be like a city that does not have any walls around it. It will have huge numbers of people and animals in it." 
Zechariah2:5 And I myself will be like a wall of fire around it,' announces the Lord. 'I will be the city's glory.' """ 
Zechariah2:6 Israel, I have scattered you in all four directions,"" announces the Lord. ""Come quickly! Run away from the land of the north,"" announces the Lord." 
Zechariah2:7 Come, people of Zion who are in Babylonia! Escape, you who live in the city of Babylon!""" 
Zechariah2:8 The Lord rules over all. His angel says to Israel, ""The Lord has sent me to honor him. He wants me to punish the nations that have robbed you of everything. After all, anyone who hurts you hurts those the Lord loves and guards." 
Zechariah2:9 So I will raise my powerful hand to strike your enemies down. Their own slaves will rob them of everything. Then you will know that the Lord who rules over all has sent me. 
Zechariah2:10  'People of Zion, shout and be glad! I am coming to live among you,' announces the Lord." 
Zechariah2:11 'At that time many nations will join themselves to me. And they will become my people. I will live among you.' says the Lord. Then you will know that the Lord who rules over all has sent me to you. 
Zechariah2:12 He will receive Judah as his share in the holy land. And he will choose Jerusalem again. 
Zechariah2:13 All you people of the world, be still because the Lord is coming. He is getting ready to come down from his holy temple in heaven.""" 
Zechariah3:1 Then the Lord showed me the high priest Jeshua. He was standing in front of the angel of the Lord. Satan was standing to the right of Jeshua. He was there to bring charges against the high priest. 
Zechariah3:2 The Lord said to Satan, ""May the Lord correct you! He has chosen Jerusalem. So may he correct you! Isn't this man Jeshua like a burning stick pulled out of the fire?""" 
Zechariah3:3 Jeshua stood in front of the angel. He was wearing clothes that were very dirty. 
Zechariah3:4 The angel spoke to those who were standing near him. He said, ""Take his dirty clothes off."" He said to Jeshua, ""I have taken your sin away. I will put fine clothes on you.""" 
Zechariah3:5 I added, ""Put a clean turban on his head."" So they did. And they dressed him while the angel of the Lord stood by." 
Zechariah3:6 Then the angel spoke to Jeshua. He said," 
Zechariah3:7 The Lord who rules over all says, 'You must live the way I want you to. And you must do what I want you to do. Then you will rule in my temple. You will be in charge of my courtyards. And I will give you a place among these who are standing here." 
Zechariah3:8  'High priest Jeshua, pay attention! I want you other priests who are sitting with Jeshua to listen also. All of you men are signs of things to come. I am going to bring my servant the Branch." 
Zechariah3:9 Look at the stone I have put in front of Jeshua! There are seven eyes on that one stone. I will carve a message on it,' says the Lord who rules over all. 'And I will remove the sin of this land in one day." 
Zechariah3:10  'At that time each of you will invite your neighbors to visit you. They will sit under your vines and fig trees,' announces the Lord.""" 
Zechariah4:1 Then the angel who was talking with me returned. He woke me up. It was as if I had been asleep. 
Zechariah4:2 What do you see? he asked me. I see a solid gold lampstand,"" I answered. ""It has a bowl on top of it. There are seven lamps on it. Seven tubes lead to each of them." 
Zechariah4:3 There are two olive trees by the lampstand. One is on its right side. The other is on its left. 
Zechariah4:4 I asked the angel who was talking with me, ""Sir, what are these?""" 
Zechariah4:5 He answered, ""Don't you know what they are?"" ""No, sir,"" I replied." 
Zechariah4:6 So he said to me, ""A message came to Zerubbabel from the Lord. He said, 'Your strength will not get my temple rebuilt. Your power will not do it either. Only the power of my Spirit will do it,' says the Lord who rules over all." 
Zechariah4:7 So nothing can stop Zerubbabel from completing the temple. Even a mountain of problems will be smoothed out by him. When the temple is finished, he will put its most important stone in place. Then the people will shout, 'God bless it! God bless it!' """ 
Zechariah4:8 A message came to me from the Lord. His angel said," 
Zechariah4:9 The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this temple. His hands will also complete it. Then you will know that the Lord who rules over all has sent me to you. 
Zechariah4:10 Do not look down on the small amount of work done on the temple so far. People will be filled with joy when they see Zerubbabel holding the most important stone. The seven eyes on the stone are the eyes of the Lord himself. He looks out over the whole earth. 
Zechariah4:11 Then I said to the angel, ""I see two olive trees. One is on the right side of the lampstand. The other is on the left. What are those trees?""" 
Zechariah4:12 I continued, ""I also see two olive branches. They are next to the two gold pipes that pour out golden olive oil. What are those branches?""" 
Zechariah4:13 He answered, ""Don't you know what they are?"" ""No, sir,"" I said." 
Zechariah4:14 So he told me, ""They are Zerubbabel and Jeshua. The Lord of the whole earth has anointed them to serve him.""" 
Zechariah5:1 I looked up again and saw a flying scroll. 
Zechariah5:2 What do you see? the angel asked me. A flying scroll,"" I replied. ""It's 30 feet long and 15 feet wide.""" 
Zechariah5:3 He said to me, ""A curse sent by the Lord is written on it. It is going out over the whole land. Every thief will be driven out of the land. That is what it says on one side of the scroll. Everyone who lies when taking an oath to tell the truth will also be driven out. That is what it says on the other side." 
Zechariah5:4 The Lord who rules over all announces, 'I will send the curse out. It will enter the house of the thief. It will also enter the house of anyone who lies when taking an oath in my name. It will remain in that house and destroy it. It will pull down its beams and stones.' """ 
Zechariah5:5 Then the angel who was talking with me came forward. He said to me, ""Look at what is coming.""" 
Zechariah5:6 What is it? I asked. A measuring basket,"" he replied. ""The sins of the people all through the land are in it.""" 
Zechariah5:7 Then the basket's cover was lifted up. It was made out of lead. A woman was sitting in the basket! 
Zechariah5:8 The angel said, ""She stands for everything that is evil."" Then he pushed her down into the basket. He put the lead cover back over its opening." 
Zechariah5:9 I looked up and saw two other women. They had wings like the wings of a stork. A wind sent by the Lord carried them along. They lifted the basket up between heaven and earth. 
Zechariah5:10 Where are they taking the basket? I asked the angel. 
Zechariah5:11 He replied, ""To the country of Babylonia. A temple will be built for it. When the temple is ready, the basket will be set there in its place.""" 
Zechariah6:1 I looked up again and saw four chariots. They were coming out from between two mountains. The mountains were made out of bronze. 
Zechariah6:2 The first chariot was pulled by red horses. The second one had black horses. 
Zechariah6:3 The third had white horses. And the fourth had spotted horses. All of the horses were powerful. 
Zechariah6:4 I asked the angel who was talking with me, ""Sir, what are these?""" 
Zechariah6:5 The angel answered, ""The four spirits of heaven. They are going out to serve the Lord of the whole world." 
Zechariah6:6 The chariot pulled by the black horses is going toward the north country. The one with the white horses is going toward the west. And the one with the spotted horses is going toward the south. 
Zechariah6:7 The powerful horses went out. They were in a hurry to go all over the earth. The angel said, ""Go all through the earth!"" So they did." 
Zechariah6:8 Then the Lord called out to me, ""Look! The horses going toward the north have given my Spirit rest in the north country.""" 
Zechariah6:9 A message came to me from the Lord. His angel said," 
Zechariah6:10 Get some silver and gold from Heldai, Tobijah and Jedaiah. They have just come back from Babylonia. On that same day go to Josiah's house. He is the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:10 Get some silver and gold from Heldai, Tobijah and Jedaiah. They have just come back from Babylonia. On that same day go to Josiah's house. He is the son of Zephaniah." 
Zechariah6:11 Use the silver and gold to make a crown. Set it on the head of the high priest Jeshua. He is the son of Jehozadak. 
Zechariah6:12 Give Jeshua a message from the Lord who rules over all. He says, 'Here is the man whose name is The Branch. He will branch out and build my temple." 
Zechariah6:13 That is what he will do. He will be dressed in majesty as if it were his royal robe. He will sit as king on his throne. He will also be a priest there. So he will combine the positions of king and priest in himself.' 
Zechariah6:14 The crown will be given to Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah and Zephaniah's son Hen. The crown will be kept in the Lord's temple. It will remind everyone that the Lord's promises will come true." 
Zechariah6:14 The crown will be given to Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah and Zephaniah's son Hen. The crown will be kept in the Lord's temple. It will remind everyone that the Lord's promises will come true." 
Zechariah6:15 Those who are far away will come to Jerusalem. They will help build the Lord's temple. Then his people will know that the Lord who rules over all has sent me to them. It will happen if they are careful to obey the Lord their God. 
Zechariah7:1 During the fourth year that Darius was king, a message came to me from the Lord. It was the fourth day of the ninth month. That's the month of Kislev." 
Zechariah7:2 The people of Bethel wanted to ask the Lord to show them his favor. So they sent Sharezer and Regem-Melech and their men. 
Zechariah7:3 They went to the prophets and priests at the Lord's temple. They asked them, ""Should we sob and go without eating in the fifth month? That's what we've done for many years.""" 
Zechariah7:4 Then the message came to me from the Lord who rules over all. He said," 
Zechariah7:5 Ask the priests and all of the people in the land a question for me. Say to them, 'You sobbed and fasted in the fifth and seventh months. You did it for the past 70 years. But did you really do it for me?" 
Zechariah7:6 And when you were eating and drinking, weren't you just enjoying good food for yourselves?" 
Zechariah7:7  'Didn't I tell you the same thing through the earlier prophets? That was when Jerusalem and the towns around it were at rest and enjoyed success. People lived in the Negev Desert and the western hills at that time.' 
Zechariah7:8 Another message came to me from the Lord. 
Zechariah7:9 He rules over all. He says to his people, ""Treat everyone fairly. Show faithful love and tender concern to one another." 
Zechariah7:10 Do not take advantage of widows. Do not mistreat children whose fathers have died. Do not crush strangers or poor people. Do not make evil plans against one another. 
Zechariah7:11 But they refused to pay attention to the Lord. They were stubborn. They turned their backs and covered up their ears. 
Zechariah7:12 They made their hearts as hard as the hardest stone. They wouldn't listen to the law. They wouldn't pay attention to the Lord's messages. So the Lord who rules over all was very angry. After all, his Spirit had spoken to his people through the earlier prophets." 
Zechariah7:13 When I called, they did not listen,"" says the Lord. ""So when they called, I would not listen." 
Zechariah7:14 I used a windstorm to scatter them among all of the nations. They were strangers there. The land they left behind became dry and empty. No one could even travel through it. That is how they turned the pleasant land into a dry and empty desert. 
Zechariah8:1 Another message came to me from the Lord who rules over all. He said," 
Zechariah8:2 I am very jealous for my people in Zion. In fact, I am burning with jealousy for them.""" 
Zechariah8:3 He continued, ""I will return to Zion. I will live among my people in Jerusalem. Then Jerusalem will be called The City of Truth. And my mountain will be called The Holy Mountain.""" 
Zechariah8:4 He continued, ""Once again old men and women will sit in the streets of Jerusalem. All of them will be using canes because they are old." 
Zechariah8:5 The city streets will be filled with boys and girls. They will be playing there. 
Zechariah8:6 He continued, ""All of that might seem wonderful to the people who are living at that time. But it will not seem wonderful to me.""" 
Zechariah8:7 He continued, ""I will save my people. I will gather them from the countries of the east and the west." 
Zechariah8:8 I will bring them back to live in Jerusalem. They will be my people. I will be their faithful God. I will keep my promises to them. 
Zechariah8:9 The Lord who rules over all says to his people, ""Listen to the words that were spoken by the prophets Haggai and Zechariah. They spoke to you when the work on my temple started up again. Let your hands be strong so that you can rebuild the temple." 
Zechariah8:9 The Lord who rules over all says to his people, ""Listen to the words that were spoken by the prophets Haggai and Zechariah. They spoke to you when the work on my temple started up again. Let your hands be strong so that you can rebuild the temple." 
Zechariah8:10 Before the work was started again, there was no pay for the people or food for the animals. People could not go about their business safely because of their enemies. I had turned all of them against one another." 
Zechariah8:11 But now I will not punish you who are living at this time. I will not treat you as I treated your people before you,"" announces the Lord who rules over all." 
Zechariah8:12 Your seeds will grow well. Your vines will bear fruit. The ground will produce crops for you. And the heavens will drop their dew on your land. I will give all of those things to those who are still left alive here. 
Zechariah8:13 Judah and Israel, in the past the nations called down curses on you. But now I will save you. You will be a blessing to others. Do not be afraid. Let your hands be strong so that you can do my work.""" 
Zechariah8:14 The Lord who rules over all says, ""Years ago your people made me angry. So I decided to bring trouble on them. I did not show them any pity." 
Zechariah8:15 But now I plan to do good things to Jerusalem and Judah again. So do not be afraid. 
Zechariah8:16 Here is what you must do. Speak the truth to one another. Make true and wise decisions in your courts. 
Zechariah8:17 Do not make evil plans against your neighbors. When you take an oath to tell the truth, do not lie. Many people love to do that. But I hate all of those things,"" announces the Lord." 
Zechariah8:18 Another message came to me from the Lord who rules over all. He said," 
Zechariah8:19 You have established special times to go without eating. They are your fasts in the fourth, fifth, seventh and tenth months. They will become days of joy. They will be happy times for Judah. It will happen if you take delight in telling the truth and bringing about peace.""" 
Zechariah8:20 He continued, ""Many nations will still come to you. And those who live in many cities will also come." 
Zechariah8:21 The people who live in one city will go to another city. They will say, 'Let's go right away to ask the Lord to show us his favor. Let's look to him as our God. We ourselves are going.'" 
Zechariah8:22 Large numbers of people and nations will come to Jerusalem. They will look to me. They will ask me to show them my favor. 
Zechariah8:23 He continued, ""At that time many men from all nations and languages will take hold of one Jew. They will grab hold of the hem of his robe. And they will say, 'We want to go to Jerusalem with you. We've heard that God is with you.' """ 
Zechariah9:1 This is the Lord's message against the land of Hadrach. He will judge Damascus. That's because all of the tribes of Israel look to him. So do other people. 
Zechariah9:2 The Lord will judge Hamath too. It's next to Damascus. He will also punish Tyre and Sidon even though they are very clever. 
Zechariah9:3 Tyre's people have built a fort for themselves. They've piled up silver like dust. They have as much gold as the dirt in the streets. 
Zechariah9:4 But the Lord will take away everything they have. He'll destroy their power on the Mediterranean Sea. And Tyre will be completely burned up. 
Zechariah9:5 Ashkelon will see it and become afraid. Gaza will groan with pain. So will Ekron. Its hope will vanish. Gaza will no longer have a king. Ashkelon will be deserted. 
Zechariah9:6 Strangers will take over Ashdod. The Lord says, ""I will take away everything the Philistines are so proud of." 
Zechariah9:7 They will no longer drink the blood of their animal sacrifices. I will remove the 'unclean' food from between their teeth. The Philistines who are left will belong to our God. They will become leaders in Judah. And Ekron will be like the Jebusites. So the Philistines will become part of Israel. 
Zechariah9:8 But I will guard my temple against enemy armies. No one will ever crush my people again. I will make sure it does not happen. 
Zechariah9:9 City of Zion, be full of joy! People of Jerusalem, shout! See, your king comes to you. He always does what is right. He has the power to save. He is gentle and riding on a donkey. He is sitting on a donkey's colt." 
Zechariah9:10 I will take the chariots away from Ephraim. I will remove the war horses from Jerusalem. I will break the bows that are used in battle. Your king will announce peace to the nations. He will rule from ocean to ocean. His kingdom will reach from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth. 
Zechariah9:11 I will set your prisoners free from where their enemies are keeping them. I will do it because of the blood that put my covenant with you into effect. 
Zechariah9:12 Return to your place of safety, you prisoners who still have hope. Even now I announce that I will give you back much more than you had before." 
Zechariah9:13 I will bend Judah as I bend my bow. I will make Ephraim's people my arrows. Zion, I will stir up your sons. Greece, they will attack your sons. My people, I will use you as my sword.""" 
Zechariah9:14 Then the Lord will appear over his people. His arrows will flash like lightning. The Lord and King will blow the trumpet of his thunder. He'll march out like a storm in the south. 
Zechariah9:15 The Lord who rules over all will be like a shield to his people. They will destroy their enemies. They'll use slings to throw stones at them. They'll drink the blood of their enemies as if it were wine. They'll be full like the bowl that is used for sprinkling the corners of the altar. 
Zechariah9:16 The Lord their God will save his people on that day. They will be like sheep that belong to his flock. They will gleam in his land like jewels in a crown. 
Zechariah9:17 How very beautiful they will be! Grain and fresh wine will make the young men and women strong. 
Zechariah10:1 People of Judah, ask the Lord to send rain in the spring. He is the one who makes the storm clouds. He sends down showers of rain on all people. He gives everyone the plants in the fields." 
Zechariah10:2 Other gods tell lies. Those who practice magic see visions that aren't true. They tell dreams that fool people. They give comfort that doesn't do any good. So the people wander around like sheep. They are crushed because they don't have a shepherd. 
Zechariah10:3 The Lord who rules over all says, ""My anger burns against the shepherds. I will punish the leaders. I will take care of my flock. They are the people of Judah. I will make them like a proud horse in battle." 
Zechariah10:4 The most important building stone will come from the tribe of Judah. The tent stake will also come from it. And the bow that is used in battle will come from it. In fact, every ruler will come from it." 
Zechariah10:5 Together they will be like soldiers in battle. They will fight their way through the muddy streets. I will be with them. So they will fight against the horsemen and destroy them. 
Zechariah10:6 I will make the family of Judah strong. I will save the people of Joseph. I will bring them back because I have tender love for them. It will be as if I had not sent them away. I am the Lord their God. I will help them. 
Zechariah10:7 The people of Ephraim will become like mighty men. Their hearts will be glad as if they were drinking wine. Their children will see it and be filled with joy. I will make their hearts glad. 
Zechariah10:8 I will whistle for my people and gather them in. I will set them free. There will be as many of them as before. 
Zechariah10:9 I have scattered them among the nations. But in lands far away they will remember me. They and their children will be kept alive. And they will return. 
Zechariah10:10 I will bring them back from Egypt. I will gather them from Assyria. I will bring them to Gilead and Lebanon. There will not be enough room for them. 
Zechariah10:11 They will pass through a sea of trouble. The stormy sea will calm down. All of the deep places in the Nile River will dry up. Assyria's pride will be brought down. Egypt's right to rule will disappear. 
Zechariah10:12 I will make my people strong. They will worship and obey me,"" announces the Lord." 
Zechariah11:1 Lebanon, open your doors! Then fire can burn up your cedar trees." 
Zechariah11:2 Pine trees, cry out! The cedar trees have fallen down. The majestic trees are destroyed. Cry out, you oak trees of Bashan! The thick forest has been cut down." 
Zechariah11:3 Listen to the shepherds cry out! Their rich grasslands are destroyed. Listen to the lions roar! The trees and bushes along the Jordan River are gone. 
Zechariah11:4 The Lord my God says, ""Take care of the sheep that are set apart to be sacrificed." 
Zechariah11:5 Those who buy them kill them. And they are not punished for it. Those who sell them say, 'Praise the Lord! We're rich!' And their own shepherds do not spare them." 
Zechariah11:6 I will no longer have pity on the people in the land,"" announces the Lord. ""I will hand all of them over to their neighbors and their king. They will crush the people in the land. And I will not save them from their powerful hands.""" 
Zechariah11:7 So I took care of the sheep set apart to be sacrificed. I took special care of those that had been crushed. Then I got two shepherd's staffs. I called one of them Favor. I called the other one Union. And I took care of the flock. 
Zechariah11:8 In one month I got rid of three worthless shepherds. The sheep hated me. And I got tired of them. 
Zechariah11:9 So I said, ""I won't be your shepherd anymore. Let those of you who are dying die. Let those who are passing away pass away. Let those who are left eat one another up.""" 
Zechariah11:10 Then I got my staff called Favor. I broke it. That meant the covenant the Lord had made with all of the nations was broken. 
Zechariah11:11 It happened that very day. The sheep that had been crushed were watching me. They knew it was the Lord's message. 
Zechariah11:12 I told them, ""If you think it is best, give me my pay. But if you don't think so, you keep it."" So they paid me 30 silver coins." 
Zechariah11:13 The Lord said to me, ""Throw the coins to the potter."" What a good price they had set for me! So I threw the 30 silver coins to the potter in the Lord's temple." 
Zechariah11:14 Then I broke my second staff called Union. That broke the union between Judah and Israel. 
Zechariah11:15 The Lord said to me, ""Now pretend to be a foolish shepherd. Get the things you need." 
Zechariah11:16 I am going to raise up a shepherd over the land. He will not take care of those that are wounded. He will not look for the young ones. He will not heal those that are hurt. He will not feed the healthy ones. Instead, he will eat the best sheep. He will even tear their hoofs off." 
Zechariah11:17 How terrible it will be for that worthless shepherd! He deserts the flock. May a sword strike his arm and his right eye! May his powerful arm become weak! May his right eye be totally blinded! 
Zechariah12:1 This is the Lord's message about Israel. The Lord spread out the heavens. He laid the foundation of the earth. He created the spirits of all men. He says," 
Zechariah12:2 Jerusalem will be like a cup in my hand. It will make all of the surrounding nations drunk from the wine of my anger. Judah will be attacked by its enemies. So will Jerusalem. 
Zechariah12:3 At that time all of the nations on earth will gather together against Jerusalem. Then it will become like a rock that can't be moved. All of the nations that try to move it will only hurt themselves. 
Zechariah12:4 On that day I will fill every horse with panic. I will make every rider crazy,"" announces the Lord. ""I will watch over the people of Judah. But I will make all of the horses of the nations blind." 
Zechariah12:5 Then the leaders of Judah will say in their hearts, 'The people of Jerusalem are strong. That's because the Lord who rules over all is their God.'" 
Zechariah12:6 At that time Judah's leaders will be like a fire pot in a pile of wood. They will be like a burning torch among bundles of grain. They will destroy all of the surrounding nations on every side. But Jerusalem will remain unharmed in its place. 
Zechariah12:7 I will save the houses in Judah first. The honor of David's family line is great. So is the honor of those who live in Jerusalem. But their honor will not be greater than the honor of the rest of Judah. 
Zechariah12:8 At that time I will be like a shield to those who live in Jerusalem. Then even the weakest among them will be great warriors like David. And David's family line will be like the Angel of the Lord who leads them. 
Zechariah12:9 On that day I will begin to destroy all of the nations that attack Jerusalem. 
Zechariah12:10 I will pour out a spirit of grace and prayer on David's family line. I will also send it on those who live in Jerusalem. They will look to me. I am the one they have pierced. They will sob over me as someone sobs over an only child who has died. They will be full of sorrow over me, just like someone who is full of sorrow over an oldest son." 
Zechariah12:11 At that time there will be a lot of crying in Jerusalem. It will sound like the sobs of the people at Hadad Rimmon over Josiah's death in the Valley of Megiddo. 
Zechariah12:12 Everyone in the land will sob. Each family will cry by themselves and their wives by themselves. That will include the family lines of David, Nathan," 
Zechariah12:13 Levi, Shimei and" 
Zechariah12:14 all of the others. 
Zechariah13:1 At that time a fountain will be opened for the benefit of David's family line. It will also bless the others who live in Jerusalem. It will wash away their sins. It will make them pure and clean. 
Zechariah13:2 On that day I will remove the names of other gods from the land. They will not even be remembered anymore,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""I will drive the evil prophets out of the land. I will get rid of the spirit that put lies in their mouths." 
Zechariah13:3 Some people might still prophesy. But their own fathers and mothers will speak to them. They will tell them, 'You must die. You have told lies in the Lord's name.' When they prophesy, their own parents will stab them." 
Zechariah13:4 At that time every prophet will be ashamed of his vision. He will no longer pretend to be a true prophet. He will not put on clothes that are made out of hair in order to trick people. 
Zechariah13:5 In fact, he will say, 'I'm not really a prophet. I'm a farmer. I've farmed the land since I was young.'" 
Zechariah13:6 Suppose someone asks him, 'What are those wounds on your body?' Then he will answer, 'I was given these wounds at the house of my friends.'" 
Zechariah13:7 My sword, wake up! Attack my shepherd! Attack the man who is close to me,"" announces the Lord who rules over all. ""Strike the shepherd down. Then the sheep will be scattered. And I will turn my hand against their little ones." 
Zechariah13:8 Here is what will happen in the whole land,"" announces the Lord. ""Two-thirds of the people will be struck down and die. But one-third will be left." 
Zechariah13:9 I will put that third in the fire. I will make them as pure as silver. I will test them like gold. They will call out to me. And I will answer them. I will say, 'They are my people.' And they will say, 'The Lord is our God.' """ 
Zechariah14:1 The day of the Lord is coming. At that time Jerusalem's enemies will steal everything its people have. They will divide it up right in front of them. 
Zechariah14:2 The Lord will gather all of the nations together. They will fight against Jerusalem. They'll capture the city. Its houses will be robbed. Its women will be raped. Half of the people will be taken away as prisoners. But the rest of them won't be taken. 
Zechariah14:3 Then the Lord will march out and fight against those nations. He will go to war against them. 
Zechariah14:4 On that day he will stand on the Mount of Olives. It's east of Jerusalem. It will be split in two from east to west. Half of the mountain will move north. The other half will move south. A large valley will be formed. 
Zechariah14:5 The people will run away through that mountain valley. It will reach all the way to Azel. They'll run away just as they ran from the earthquake when Uzziah was king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come. All of the holy ones will come with him. 
Zechariah14:6 There won't be any light on that day. The sun, moon and stars will not shine." 
Zechariah14:7 It will be a day unlike any other. It won't be separated into day and night. It will be a day known only to the Lord. After that day is over, there will be light again." 
Zechariah14:8 At that time water that gives life will flow out from Jerusalem. Half of it will run into the Dead Sea. The other half will go to the Mediterranean Sea. The water will flow in summer and winter. 
Zechariah14:9 The Lord will be king over the whole earth. On that day there will be one Lord. His name will be the only name. 
Zechariah14:10 The whole land south of Jerusalem will be changed. From Geba to Rimmon it will become like the Arabah Valley. But Jerusalem will be raised up. It will remain in its place. From the Benjamin Gate to the First Gate to the Corner Gate nothing will be changed. From the Tower of Hananel to the royal winepress the city will remain the same. 
Zechariah14:11 People will live in it. Jerusalem will never be destroyed again. It will be secure. 
Zechariah14:12 The Lord will punish all of the nations that fought against Jerusalem. He'll strike them with a plague. It will make their bodies rot while they are still standing on their feet. Their eyes will rot in their heads. Their tongues will rot in their mouths. 
Zechariah14:13 On that day the Lord will fill people with great panic. They will grab one another by the hand. And they'll attack each other. 
Zechariah14:14 Judah will also fight at Jerusalem. The wealth of all of the surrounding nations will be collected. Huge amounts of gold, silver and clothes will be gathered up." 
Zechariah14:15 The same kind of plague will strike the horses, mules, camels and donkeys. In fact, it will strike all of the animals in the army camps." 
Zechariah14:16 But some people from all of the nations that have attacked Jerusalem will still be left alive. All of them will go up there to worship the King. He is the Lord who rules over all. Year after year they will celebrate the Feast of Booths. 
Zechariah14:17 Some nations might not go up to Jerusalem to worship the King. If they don't, they won't have any rain." 
Zechariah14:18 The people of Egypt might not go up there to take part. Then they won't have any rain either. That's the plague the Lord will send on the nations that don't go to celebrate the Feast of Booths. 
Zechariah14:19 Egypt will be punished. So will all of the other nations that don't celebrate the Feast. 
Zechariah14:20 On that day holy to the Lord will be carved on the bells of the horses. The cooking pots in the Lord's temple will be just like the sacred bowls in front of the altar for burnt offerings. 
Zechariah14:21 Every pot in Jerusalem and Judah will be set apart to the Lord. All those who come to offer sacrifices will get some of the pots and cook in them. At that time there won't be any Canaanites in the Lord's temple. He is the Lord who rules over all. 
Malachi1:1 This is the Lord's message to Israel through Malachi. 
Malachi1:2 Israel, I have loved you,"" says the Lord. ""But you ask, 'How have you loved us?' ""Wasn't Esau Jacob's brother?"" says the Lord. ""But I chose Jacob" 
Malachi1:3 instead of Esau. I turned Esau's mountains into a dry and empty land. I left that land of Edom to the wild dogs in the desert. 
Malachi1:4 Edom might say, ""We have been crushed. But we'll rebuild our cities."" The Lord who rules over all says, ""They might rebuild their cities. But I will destroy them. They will be called The Evil Land. My anger will always remain on them." 
Malachi1:5 You will see it with your own eyes. You will say, 'The Lord is great! He rules even beyond the borders of Israel!'" 
Malachi1:6 A son honors his father. A servant honors his master. If I am a father, where is the honor I should have? If I am a master, where is the respect you should give me?"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""You priests look down on me. ""But you ask, 'How have we looked down on you?'" 
Malachi1:7 You put 'unclean' food on my altar. But you ask, 'How have we made you ""unclean?"" ' ""You do it by looking down on my altar." 
Malachi1:8 You sacrifice blind animals to me. Isn't that wrong? You sacrifice disabled or sick animals. Isn't that wrong? Try offering them to your governor! Would he be pleased with you? Would he accept you? says the Lord who rules over all. 
Malachi1:9 Now you dare to ask me to show you my favor! But as long as you give offerings like those, how can I accept you?"" says the Lord." 
Malachi1:10 You might as well shut the temple doors! Then you would not light useless fires on my altar. I am not pleased with you,"" says the Lord. ""I will not accept any of the offerings you bring." 
Malachi1:11 My name will be great among the nations. They will worship me from where the sun rises in the east to where it sets in the west. In every place, incense and pure offerings will be brought to me. That is because my name will be great among the nations,"" says the Lord." 
Malachi1:12 But you treat my name as if it were not holy. You say my altar is 'unclean.' And you look down on its food. 
Malachi1:13 You say, 'What a heavy load our work is!' And you turn your nose up as if you hate working for me,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""You bring animals that have been hurt. Or you bring disabled or sick animals. Then you dare to offer them to me as sacrifices! Should I accept them from you?"" says the Lord." 
Malachi1:14 Suppose you have a male sheep or goat that does not have any flaws. And you promise to offer it to me. But then you sacrifice an animal that has flaws. When you do that, you cheat me. And anyone who cheats me is under my curse. After all, I am a great king,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""The other nations have respect for my name. So why don't you respect it?" 
Malachi2:1 Now I am giving a warning to you priests. 
Malachi2:2 Listen to it. Honor me with all your heart,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""If you do not, I will send a curse on you. I will turn your blessings into curses. In fact, I have already done that because you have not honored me with all your heart." 
Malachi2:3 Because of what you have done, I will punish your children. I will smear the guts from your sacrifices on your faces. And you will be carried off to the dump along with them." 
Malachi2:4 You will know that I have given you a warning. I have warned you so that my covenant with Levi will continue,"" says the Lord who rules over all." 
Malachi2:5 My covenant promised Levi life and peace. So I gave them to him. I required him to respect me. And he had great respect for my name. 
Malachi2:6 True teaching came from his mouth. Nothing but the truth came from his lips. He walked with me in peace. He did what was right. He turned many people away from their sins. 
Malachi2:7 The lips of a priest should guard knowledge. People should look for true teaching from his mouth. After all, he is my messenger." 
Malachi2:8 But you have turned away from the right path. Your teaching has caused many people to trip and fall. You have broken my covenant with Levi,"" says the Lord who rules over all." 
Malachi2:9 So I have caused all of the people to hate you. They have lost respect for you. You have not done what I told you to do. Instead, you have favored one person over another in matters of the law.""" 
Malachi2:10 People of Judah, all of us have one Father. One God created us. So why do we break the covenant the Lord made with our people long ago? We don't even keep our promises to one another." 
Malachi2:11 You have broken your promises. A hateful thing has been done in Israel and Jerusalem. The Lord loves his temple. But you have polluted it. You men have married women who worship other gods. 
Malachi2:12 May the Lord punish you who do that. It doesn't matter who you are. May the Lord who rules over all cut you off from the tents of Jacob's people. May he remove you even if you bring offerings to him. 
Malachi2:13 Here's something else you do. You flood the Lord's altar with your tears. You sob and cry because he doesn't pay attention to your offerings anymore. He doesn't accept them from your hands with pleasure. 
Malachi2:14 You ask, ""Why?"" It's because the Lord is holding you accountable. He watches how you treat the wife you married when you were young. You have broken your promise to her. You did it even though she's your partner. You promised to stay married to her. And the Lord was a witness to it." 
Malachi2:15 Hasn't he made the two of you one? Both of you belong to him in body and spirit. And why has he made you one? Because he was looking for godly children. So guard yourself in your spirit. Don't break your promise to the wife you married when you were young. 
Malachi2:16 I hate divorce,"" says the Lord God of Israel. ""I hate it when people do anything that harms others,"" says the Lord who rules over all. So guard yourself in your spirit. And don't break your promises." 
Malachi2:17 You have worn the Lord out by what you keep saying. How have we worn him out? you ask. You have done it by saying, ""All those who do evil things are good in the Lord's sight. And he is pleased with them."" Or you ask, ""Is God really fair?""" 
Malachi3:1 The Lord who rules over all says, ""I will send my messenger. He will prepare my way for me. Then suddenly the Lord you are looking for will come to his temple. The messenger of the covenant will come. He is the one you long for.""" 
Malachi3:2 But who can live through the day when he comes? Who will be left standing when he appears? He will be like a fire that makes things pure. He will be like soap that makes things clean. 
Malachi3:3 He will act like one who makes silver pure. And he will purify the Levites, just as gold and silver are purified with fire. Then the Lord's people will bring proper offerings." 
Malachi3:4 And the offerings of Judah and Jerusalem will be acceptable to him. It will be as it was in days and years gone by. 
Malachi3:5 So I will come and judge you. I will be quick to bring charges against all of you,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""I will bring charges against you sinful people who do not have any respect for me. That includes those who practice evil magic. It includes those who commit adultery and those who tell lies in court. It includes those who cheat workers out of their pay. It includes those who crush widows. It also includes those who mistreat children whose fathers have died. And it includes those who take away the rights of outsiders in the courts." 
Malachi3:6 I am the Lord. I do not change. That is why I have not destroyed you members of Jacob's family. 
Malachi3:7 You have turned away from my rules. You have not obeyed them. You have lived that way ever since the days of your people long ago. Return to me. Then I will return to you,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""But you ask, 'How can we return?'" 
Malachi3:8 Will a man dare to steal from me? But you rob me! You ask, 'How do we rob you?' ""By holding back your offerings. You also steal from me when you do not bring me a tenth of everything you produce." 
Malachi3:9 So you are under my curse. In fact, your whole nation is under it. That is because you are robbing me." 
Malachi3:10 Bring the entire tenth to the storerooms in my temple. Then there will be plenty of food. Put me to the test,"" says the Lord. ""Then you will see that I will throw open the windows of heaven. I will pour out so many blessings that you will not have enough room for them." 
Malachi3:11 I will keep bugs from eating up your crops. And your grapes will not drop from the vines before they are ripe,"" says the Lord." 
Malachi3:12 Then all of the nations will call you blessed. Your land will be delightful,"" says the Lord who rules over all." 
Malachi3:13 You have spoken bad things against me,"" says the Lord. ""But you ask, 'What have we spoken against you?'" 
Malachi3:14 You have said, 'It is useless to serve God. What did we gain by obeying his laws? And what did we get by pretending to be sad in front of the Lord?" 
Malachi3:15 But now we call proud people blessed. Things go well with those who do what is evil. And God doesn't even punish those who argue with him.' 
Malachi3:16 Those who had respect for the Lord talked with one another. They cheered each other up. And the Lord heard them. A list of people and what they did was written on a scroll in front of him. It included the names of those who respected the Lord and honored him. 
Malachi3:17 They will belong to me,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""They will be my special treasure. I will spare them just as a loving father spares his son who serves him." 
Malachi3:18 Then once again you will see the difference between godly people and sinful people. And you will see the difference between those who serve me and those who do not. 
Malachi4:1 You can be sure the day of the Lord is coming. My anger will burn like a furnace. All those who are proud will be like straw. So will all those who do what is evil. The day that is coming will set them on fire,"" says the Lord who rules over all. ""Not even a root or a branch will be left to them." 
Malachi4:2 But here is what will happen for you who have respect for me. The sun that brings life will rise. Its rays will bring healing to my people. You will go out and leap like calves that have just been let out of the barn. 
Malachi4:3 Then you will stomp on sinful people. They will be like ashes under your feet. That will happen on the day I act,"" says the Lord." 
Malachi4:4 Remember the law my servant Moses gave you. Remember the rules and laws I gave him at Mount Horeb. They were for the whole nation of Israel. 
Malachi4:5 I will send you the prophet Elijah. He will come before the day of the Lord arrives. It will be a great and terrifying day. 
Malachi4:6 Elijah will teach parents how to love their children. He will also teach children how to honor their parents. If that does not happen, I will come. And I will put a curse on the land.""" 
Matthew1:5 Salmon was the father of Boaz. Rahab was Boaz's mother. Boaz was the father of Obed. Ruth was Obed's mother. Obed was the father of Jesse. 
Matthew1:23 The virgin is going to have a baby. She will give birth to a son. And he will be called Immanuel.,(Isaiah 7:14) The name Immanuel means God with us. 
Matthew2:6  'But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are certainly not the least important among the towns of Judah. A ruler will come out of you. He will be the shepherd of my people Israel.' "" ,(Micah 5:2)" 
Matthew2:15 They stayed there until King Herod died. So the words the Lord had spoken through the prophet came true. He had said, ""I chose to bring my son out of Egypt."",(Hosea 11:1)" 
Matthew2:17 In this way, the words the prophet Jeremiah spoke came true. He had said," 
Matthew2:18 A voice is heard in Ramah. It's the sound of crying and deep sadness. Rachel is crying over her children. She refuses to be comforted, because they are gone."" ,(Jeremiah 31:15)" 
Matthew3:3 John is the one the prophet Isaiah had spoken about. He had said, ""A messenger is calling out in the desert, 'Prepare the way for the Lord. Make straight paths for him.' "" ,(Isaiah 40:3)" 
Matthew4:4 Jesus answered, ""It is written, 'Man doesn't live only on bread. He also lives on every word that comes from the mouth of God.' "",(Deuteronomy 8:3)" 
Matthew4:7 Jesus answered him, ""It is also written, 'Do not put the Lord your God to the test.' "",(Deuteronomy 6:16)" 
Matthew4:10 Jesus said to him, ""Get away from me, Satan! It is written, 'Worship the Lord your God. He is the only one you should serve.' "",(Deuteronomy 6:13)" 
Matthew4:14 In that way, what the prophet Isaiah had said came true. He had said," 
Matthew4:16 The people who are now living in darkness will see a great light. They are now living in a very dark land. But a light will shine on them. ,(Isaiah 9:1,2)" 
Matthew5:21 You have heard what was said to people who lived long ago. They were told, 'Do not commit murder.,(Exodus 20:13) Anyone who murders will be judged for it.'" 
Matthew5:27 You have heard that it was said, 'Do not commit adultery.',(Exodus 20:14)" 
Matthew5:31 It has been said, 'Suppose a man divorces his wife. If he does, he must give her a letter of divorce.',(Deuteronomy 24:1)" 
Matthew5:38 You have heard that it was said, 'An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth.',(Exodus 21:24; Leviticus 24:20; Deuteronomy 19:21)" 
Matthew5:38 You have heard that it was said, 'An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth.',(Exodus 21:24; Leviticus 24:20; Deuteronomy 19:21)" 
Matthew5:38 You have heard that it was said, 'An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth.',(Exodus 21:24; Leviticus 24:20; Deuteronomy 19:21)" 
Matthew5:43 You have heard that it was said, 'Love your neighbor.,(Leviticus 19:18) Hate your enemy.'" 
Matthew8:17 He did it to make what the prophet Isaiah had said come true. He had said, ""He suffered the things we should have suffered. He took on himself the sicknesses that should have been ours."" ,(Isaiah 53:4)" 
Matthew9:13 Go and learn what this means, 'I want mercy and not sacrifice.',(Hosea 6:6) I have not come to get those who think they are right with God to follow me. I have come to get sinners to follow me.""" 
Matthew10:36 A man's enemies will be the members of his own family.' ,(Micah 7:6) 
Matthew11:10 He is the one written about in Scripture. It says, "" 'I will send my messenger ahead of you. He will prepare your way for you.' ,(Malachi 3:1)" 
Matthew12:7 Scripture says, 'I want mercy and not sacrifice.',(Hosea 6:6) You don't know what those words mean. If you did, you would not bring charges against those who are not guilty." 
Matthew12:17 This was to make what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah come true. It says," 
Matthew12:21 The nations will put their hope in him. ,(Isaiah 42:1?4) 
Matthew12:39 He answered, ""Evil and unfaithful people ask for a miraculous sign! But none will be given except the sign of the prophet Jonah." 
Matthew12:40 Jonah was in the stomach of a huge fish for three days and three nights. Something like that will happen to the Son of Man. He will spend three days and three nights in the grave. 
Matthew12:41 The men of Nineveh will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And the Ninevites will prove that those people are guilty. The men of Nineveh turned away from their sins when Jonah preached to them. And now one who is more important than Jonah is here. 
Matthew13:14 In them the words of the prophet Isaiah come true. He said, "" 'You will hear but never understand. You will see but never know what you are seeing." 
Matthew13:15 The hearts of these people have become stubborn. They can barely hear with their ears. They have closed their eyes. Otherwise they might see with their eyes. They might hear with their ears. They might understand with their hearts. They might turn to the Lord, and then he would heal them.' ,(Isaiah 6:9,10)" 
Matthew15:4 God said, 'Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16) He also said, 'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death.',(Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9)" 
Matthew15:4 God said, 'Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16) He also said, 'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death.',(Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9)" 
Matthew15:4 God said, 'Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16) He also said, 'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death.',(Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9)" 
Matthew15:7 You pretenders! Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you. He said," 
Matthew15:9 Their worship doesn't mean anything to me. They teach nothing but human rules.'  ,(Isaiah 29:13) 
Matthew16:4 An evil and unfaithful people look for a miraculous sign. But none will be given to them except the sign of Jonah. Then Jesus left them and went away. 
Matthew16:14 They replied, ""Some say John the Baptist. Others say Elijah. Still others say Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.""" 
Matthew16:17 Jesus replied, ""Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah! No mere man showed this to you. My Father in heaven showed it to you." 
Matthew18:16 But what if he won't listen to you? Then take one or two others with you. Scripture says, 'Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses.',(Deuteronomy 19:15)" 
Matthew19:4 Jesus replied, ""Haven't you read that in the beginning the Creator 'made them male and female'?,(Genesis 1:27)" 
Matthew19:5 He said, 'That's why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. The two will become one.',(Genesis 2:24)" 
Matthew19:19 Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12?16; Deuteronomy 5:16?20) And 'love your neighbor as you love yourself.' ,(Leviticus 19:18) 
Matthew19:19 Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12?16; Deuteronomy 5:16?20) And 'love your neighbor as you love yourself.' ,(Leviticus 19:18) 
Matthew19:19 Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12?16; Deuteronomy 5:16?20) And 'love your neighbor as you love yourself.' ,(Leviticus 19:18) 
Matthew21:5 Say to the city of Zion, 'See, your king comes to you. He is gentle and riding on a donkey. He is riding on a donkey's colt.' "" ,(Zechariah 9:9)" 
Matthew21:13 He said to them, ""It is written that the Lord said, 'My house will be called a house where people can pray.',(Isaiah 56:7) But you are making it a 'den for robbers.' "",(Jeremiah 7:11)" 
Matthew21:13 He said to them, ""It is written that the Lord said, 'My house will be called a house where people can pray.',(Isaiah 56:7) But you are making it a 'den for robbers.' "",(Jeremiah 7:11)" 
Matthew22:32 He said, 'I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.',(Exodus 3:6) He is not the God of the dead. He is the God of the living.""" 
Matthew22:37 Jesus replied, "" 'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your mind.',(Deuteronomy 6:5)" 
Matthew22:39 And the second is like it. 'Love your neighbor as you love yourself.',(Leviticus 19:18) 
Matthew23:35 So you will pay for all the godly people's blood spilled on earth. I mean from the blood of godly Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Berekiah. Zechariah was the one you murdered between the temple and the altar." 
Matthew24:15 The prophet Daniel spoke about 'the hated thing that destroys.',(Daniel 9:27; 11:31; 12:11) Someday you will see it standing in the holy place. The reader should understand this. 
Matthew24:29 Right after the terrible suffering of those days, "" 'The sun will be darkened. The moon will not shine. The stars will fall from the sky. The heavenly bodies will be shaken.' ,(Isaiah 13:10; 34:4)" 
Matthew26:31 Jesus told them, ""This very night you will all turn away because of me. It is written that the Lord said, "" 'I will strike the shepherd down. Then the sheep of the flock will be scattered.' ,(Zechariah 13:7)" 
Matthew27:9 Then the words spoken by Jeremiah the prophet came true. He had said, ""They took the 30 silver coins. That price was set for him by the people of Israel." 
Matthew27:10 They used the coins to buy a potter's field, just as the Lord commanded me."",(Zechariah 11:12,13; Jeremiah 19:1?13; 32:6?9)" 
Matthew27:10 They used the coins to buy a potter's field, just as the Lord commanded me."",(Zechariah 11:12,13; Jeremiah 19:1?13; 32:6?9)" 
Mark1:2 Long ago Isaiah the prophet wrote, ""I will send my messenger ahead of you. He will prepare your way."" ,(Malachi 3:1)" 
Mark1:2 Long ago Isaiah the prophet wrote, ""I will send my messenger ahead of you. He will prepare your way."" ,(Malachi 3:1)" 
Mark1:3 A messenger is calling out in the desert, 'Prepare the way for the Lord. Make straight paths for him.' "" ,(Isaiah 40:3)" 
Mark4:12 In that way, "" 'They will see but never know what they are seeing. They will hear but never understand. Otherwise they might turn and be forgiven!' "" ,(Isaiah 6:9,10)" 
Mark7:6 He replied, ""Isaiah was right. He prophesied about you people who pretend to be good. He said, "" 'These people honor me by what they say. But their hearts are far away from me." 
Mark7:7 Their worship doesn't mean anything to me. They teach nothing but human rules.' ,(Isaiah 29:13) 
Mark7:10 Moses said, 'Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16) He also said, 'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death.',(Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9)" 
Mark7:10 Moses said, 'Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16) He also said, 'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death.',(Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9)" 
Mark7:10 Moses said, 'Honor your father and mother.',(Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16) He also said, 'If anyone calls down a curse on his father or mother, he will be put to death.',(Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9)" 
Mark9:48 In hell, "" 'The worms do not die. The fire is not put out.' ,(Isaiah 66:24)" 
Mark10:6 But at the beginning of creation, God 'made them male and female.',(Genesis 1:27)" 
Mark10:8 The two of them will become one.',(Genesis 2:24) They are no longer two, but one." 
Mark10:19 You know what the commandments say. 'Do not commit murder. Do not commit adultery. Do not steal. Do not give false witness. Do not cheat. Honor your father and mother.' ,(Exodus 20:12-16; Deuteronomy 5:16-20) 
Mark10:19 You know what the commandments say. 'Do not commit murder. Do not commit adultery. Do not steal. Do not give false witness. Do not cheat. Honor your father and mother.' ,(Exodus 20:12-16; Deuteronomy 5:16-20) 
Mark11:17 Then he taught them. He told them, ""It is written that the Lord said, "" 'My house will be called a house where people from all nations can pray.' ,(Isaiah 56:7) But you have made it a 'den for robbers.' "",(Jeremiah 7:11)" 
Mark11:17 Then he taught them. He told them, ""It is written that the Lord said, "" 'My house will be called a house where people from all nations can pray.' ,(Isaiah 56:7) But you have made it a 'den for robbers.' "",(Jeremiah 7:11)" 
Mark12:26 What about the dead rising? Haven't you read in the scroll of Moses the story of the bush? God said to Moses, 'I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.',(Exodus 3:6)" 
Mark12:30 Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your mind and with all your strength.',(Deuteronomy 6:4,5)" 
Mark12:31 And here is the second one. 'Love your neighbor as you love yourself.',(Leviticus 19:18) There is no commandment more important than these. 
Mark13:14 You will see 'the hated thing that destroys.',(Daniel 9:27; 11:31; 12:11) It will stand where it does not belong. The reader should understand this. Then those who are in Judea should escape to the mountains. 
Mark13:25 The stars will fall from the sky. The heavenly bodies will be shaken.' ,(Isaiah 13:10; 34:4) 
Mark14:27 You will all turn away,"" Jesus told the disciples. ""It is written, "" 'I will strike the shepherd down. Then the sheep will be scattered.' ,(Zechariah 13:7)" 
Luke1:5 Herod was king of Judea. During the time he was ruling, there was a priest named Zechariah. He belonged to a group of priests named after Abijah. His wife Elizabeth also came from the family line of Aaron." 
Luke1:8 One day Zechariah's group was on duty. He was serving as a priest in God's temple. 
Luke1:11 Then an angel of the Lord appeared to Zechariah. The angel was standing at the right side of the incense altar. 
Luke1:12 When Zechariah saw him, he was amazed and terrified." 
Luke1:13 But the angel said to him, ""Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will have a child. It will be a boy, and you must name him John." 
Luke1:18 Zechariah asked the angel, ""How can I be sure of this? I am an old man, and my wife is old too.""" 
Luke1:21 During that time, the people were waiting for Zechariah to come out. They wondered why he stayed in the temple so long." 
Luke1:40 There she entered Zechariah's home and greeted Elizabeth. 
Luke1:59 On the eighth day, they came to have the child circumcised. They were going to name him Zechariah, like his father." 
Luke1:64 Right away Zechariah could speak again. His first words gave praise to God. 
Luke1:67 His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit. He prophesied," 
Luke2:23 In the Law of the Lord it says, ""The first boy born in every family must be set apart for the Lord."",(Exodus 13:2,12)" 
Luke2:24 They also offered a sacrifice. They did it in keeping with the Law, which says, ""a pair of doves or two young pigeons."",(Leviticus 12:8)" 
Luke3:2 Annas and Caiaphas were high priests. At that time God's word came to John, son of Zechariah, in the desert." 
Luke3:4 Here is what is written in the scroll of the prophet Isaiah. It says, ""A messenger is calling out in the desert, 'Prepare the way for the Lord. Make straight paths for him." 
Luke3:6 And everyone will see God's salvation.'  ,(Isaiah 40:3?5) 
Luke3:25 Joseph was the son of Mattathias. Mattathias was the son of Amos. Amos was the son of Nahum. Nahum was the son of Esli. Esli was the son of Naggai. 
Luke3:25 Joseph was the son of Mattathias. Mattathias was the son of Amos. Amos was the son of Nahum. Nahum was the son of Esli. Esli was the son of Naggai. 
Luke3:29 Er was the son of Joshua. Joshua was the son of Eliezer. Eliezer was the son of Jorim. Jorim was the son of Matthat. Matthat was the son of Levi. 
Luke4:4 Jesus answered, ""It is written, 'Man doesn't live only on bread.' "",(Deuteronomy 8:3)" 
Luke4:8 Jesus answered, ""It is written, 'Worship the Lord your God. He is the only one you should serve.' "",(Deuteronomy 6:13)" 
Luke4:12 Jesus answered, ""Scripture says, 'Do not put the Lord your God to the test.' "",(Deuteronomy 6:16)" 
Luke4:17 The scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him. He unrolled it and found the right place. There it is written," 
Luke4:19 And he has sent me to announce the year when he will set his people free. ,(Isaiah 61:1,2)" 
Luke7:27 He is the one written about in Scripture. It says, "" 'I will send my messenger ahead of you. He will prepare your way for you.' ,(Malachi 3:1)" 
Luke8:10 He said, ""You have been given the chance to understand the secrets of God's kingdom. But to outsiders I speak by using stories. In that way, "" 'They see, but they will not know what they are seeing. They hear, but they will not understand what they are hearing.' ,(Isaiah 6:9)" 
Luke10:27 He answered, "" 'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your strength and with all your mind.',(Deuteronomy 6:5) And, 'Love your neighbor as you love yourself.' "",(Leviticus 19:18)" 
Luke10:27 He answered, "" 'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your strength and with all your mind.',(Deuteronomy 6:5) And, 'Love your neighbor as you love yourself.' "",(Leviticus 19:18)" 
Luke11:29 As the crowds grew larger, Jesus spoke to them. ""The people of today are evil,"" he said. ""They ask for a miraculous sign from God. But none will be given except the sign of Jonah." 
Luke11:32 The men of Nineveh will stand up on judgment day with the people now living. And the Ninevites will prove that those people are guilty. The men of Nineveh turned away from their sins when Jonah preached to them. And now one who is more important than Jonah is here. 
Luke11:51 I mean from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the temple. Yes, I tell you, the people of today will be punished for all these things." 
Luke18:20 You know what the commandments say. 'Do not commit adultery. Do not commit murder. Do not steal. Do not give false witness. Honor your father and mother.' ,(Exodus 20:12?16; Deuteronomy 5:16?20) 
Luke18:20 You know what the commandments say. 'Do not commit adultery. Do not commit murder. Do not steal. Do not give false witness. Honor your father and mother.' ,(Exodus 20:12?16; Deuteronomy 5:16?20) 
Luke19:46 He told them, ""It is written that the Lord said, 'My house will be a house where people can pray.',(Isaiah 56:7) But you have made it a 'den for robbers.' "",(Jeremiah 7:11)" 
Luke19:46 He told them, ""It is written that the Lord said, 'My house will be a house where people can pray.',(Isaiah 56:7) But you have made it a 'den for robbers.' "",(Jeremiah 7:11)" 
Luke20:37 Remember the story of Moses and the bush. Even Moses showed that the dead rise. The Lord said to him, 'I am the God of Abraham. I am the God of Isaac. And I am the God of Jacob.',(Exodus 3:6)" 
Luke20:42 David himself says in the Book of Psalms, "" 'The Lord said to my Lord, ""Sit at my right hand" 
Luke22:37 It is written, 'He was counted among those who had committed crimes.',(Isaiah 53:12) I tell you that what is written about me must come true. Yes, it is already coming true.""" 
Luke23:30 It is written, "" 'The people will say to the mountains, ""Fall on us!"" They'll say to the hills, ""Cover us!"" ' ,(Hosea 10:8)" 
Luke24:44 Jesus said to them, ""This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything written about me must happen. Everything written about me in the Law of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms must come true.""" 
John1:23 John replied, using the words of Isaiah the prophet. John said, ""I'm the messenger who is calling out in the desert, 'Make the way for the Lord straight.' "",(Isaiah 40:3)" 
John6:31 Long ago our people ate the manna in the desert. It is written in Scripture, 'The Lord gave them bread from heaven to eat.' "",(Exodus 16:4; Nehemiah 9:15; Psalm 78:24,25)" 
John6:31 Long ago our people ate the manna in the desert. It is written in Scripture, 'The Lord gave them bread from heaven to eat.' "",(Exodus 16:4; Nehemiah 9:15; Psalm 78:24,25)" 
John6:45 It is written in the Prophets, 'God will teach all of them.',(Isaiah 54:13) Everyone who listens to the Father and learns from him comes to me." 
John12:15 City of Zion, do not be afraid. See, your king is coming. He is sitting on a donkey's colt."" ,(Zechariah 9:9)" 
John12:38 This happened as Isaiah the prophet had said it would. He had said, ""Lord, who has believed what we've been saying? Who has seen the Lord's saving power?"" ,(Isaiah 53:1)" 
John12:39 For this reason, they could not believe. As Isaiah says in another place," 
John12:40 The Lord has blinded their eyes. He has closed their minds. So they can't see with their eyes. They can't understand with their minds. They can't turn to the Lord. If they could, he would heal them."" ,(Isaiah 6:10)" 
John12:41 Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus' glory and spoke about him. 
John15:25 This has happened so that what is written in their Law would come true. It says, 'They hated me without any reason.',(Psalms 35:19; 69:4)" 
John19:36 These things happened in order that Scripture would come true. It says, ""Not one of his bones will be broken."",(Exodus 12:46; Numbers 9:12; Psalm 34:20)" 
John19:36 These things happened in order that Scripture would come true. It says, ""Not one of his bones will be broken."",(Exodus 12:46; Numbers 9:12; Psalm 34:20)" 
John19:37 Scripture also says, ""They will look to the one they have pierced."",(Zechariah 12:10)" 
Acts1:20 Peter said, ""Here is what is written in the book of Psalms. It says, "" 'May his home be deserted. May no one live in it.' ,(Psalm 69:25) The Psalms also say, "" 'Let someone else take his place as leader.' ,(Psalm 109:8)" 
Acts2:16 No, here is what the prophet Joel meant." 
Acts2:21 Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.' ,(Joel 2:28-32) 
Acts3:23 Those who do not listen to him will be completely cut off from their people.',(Deuteronomy 18:15,18,19)" 
Acts3:25 What the prophets said was meant for you. The covenant God made with your people long ago is yours also. He said to Abraham, 'All nations on earth will be blessed through your children.',(Genesis 22:18; 26:4)" 
Acts7:3 'Leave your country and your people,' God said. 'Go to the land I will show you.',(Genesis 12:1)" 
Acts7:7 But I will punish the nation that makes them slaves,' God said. 'After that, they will leave that country and worship me here.',(Genesis 15:13,14)" 
Acts7:28 Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?',(Exodus 2:14) 
Acts7:32 'I am the God of your fathers,' the Lord said. 'I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.',(Exodus 3:6) Moses shook with fear. He didn't dare to look." 
Acts7:34 I have seen my people beaten down in Egypt. I have heard their groans. I have come down to set them free. Now come. I will send you back to Egypt.',(Exodus 3:5,7,8,10)" 
Acts7:37 This is the same Moses who spoke to the people of Israel. 'God will send you a prophet,' he said. 'He will be like me. He will come from your own people.',(Deuteronomy 18:15)" 
Acts7:40 They told Aaron, 'Make us a god who will lead us. This fellow Moses led us out of Egypt. But we don't know what has happened to him!',(Exodus 32:1)" 
Acts7:43 You lifted up the place where Molech was worshiped. You lifted up the star of your god Rephan. You made statues of them to worship. So I will send you away from your country.' ,(Amos 5:25-27) God sent them to Babylon and even farther. 
Acts7:45 Our people received the tent from God. They brought it with them when they took the land of Canaan. God drove out the nations that were in their way. At that time Joshua was Israel's leader. The tent remained in the land until David's time. 
Acts7:50 Didn't my hand make all these things?' ,(Isaiah 66:1,2)" 
Acts8:28 On his way home he was sitting in his chariot. He was reading the book of Isaiah the prophet. 
Acts8:30 So Philip ran up to the chariot. He heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet. Do you understand what you're reading? Philip asked. 
Acts8:33 When he was treated badly, he was refused a fair trial. Who can say anything about his children? His life was cut off from the earth."" ,(Isaiah 53:7,8)" 
Acts13:34 God raised Jesus from the dead. He will never rot in the grave. This is what is written in Scripture. It says, "" 'Holy and sure blessings were promised to David. I will give them to you.' ,(Isaiah 55:3)" 
Acts13:41  'Look, you who make fun of the truth! Wonder and die! I am going to do something in your days that you would never believe. You wouldn't believe it even if someone told you.' "" ,(Habakkuk 1:5)" 
Acts13:47 This is what the Lord has commanded us to do. He said, "" 'I have made you a light for those who aren't Jews. You will bring salvation to the whole earth.' "" ,(Isaiah 49:6)" 
Acts15:17 Then the rest of the people can look to the Lord. This means all the non-Jews who belong to me. The Lord says this. He is the one who does these things.' ,(Amos 9:11,12)" 
Acts23:5 Paul replied, ""Brothers, I didn't realize he was the high priest. It is written, 'Do not speak evil about the ruler of your people.' "",(Exodus 22:28)" 
Acts28:25 They didn't agree with each other. They began to leave after Paul had made a final statement. He said, ""The Holy Spirit was right when he spoke to your people long ago. Through Isaiah the prophet the Spirit said," 
Acts28:27 These people's hearts have become stubborn. They can barely hear with their ears. They have closed their eyes. Otherwise they might see with their eyes. They might hear with their ears. They might understand with their hearts. They might turn, and then I would heal them.' ,(Isaiah 6:9,10)" 
Romans1:17 The good news shows how God makes people right with himself. From beginning to end, becoming right with God depends on a person's faith. It is written, ""Those who are right with God will live by faith."",(Habakkuk 2:4)" 
Romans2:6 God will give to each person in keeping with what he has done.,(Psalm 62:12; Proverbs 24:12) 
Romans2:24 It is written, ""Those who aren't Jews say evil things against God's name because of you."",(Isaiah 52:5; Ezekiel 36:22)" 
Romans2:24 It is written, ""Those who aren't Jews say evil things against God's name because of you."",(Isaiah 52:5; Ezekiel 36:22)" 
Romans3:12 All of them have turned away. They have all become worthless. No one does anything good, no one at all."" ,(Psalms 14:1-3; 53:1-3; Ecclesiastes 7:20)" 
Romans3:12 All of them have turned away. They have all become worthless. No one does anything good, no one at all."" ,(Psalms 14:1-3; 53:1-3; Ecclesiastes 7:20)" 
Romans3:17 They do not know the way of peace. ,(Isaiah 59:7,8)" 
Romans4:3 What do we find in Scripture? It says, ""Abraham believed God. God accepted Abraham's faith, and so his faith made him right with God."",(Genesis 15:6)" 
Romans4:17 It is written, ""I have made you a father of many nations."",(Genesis 17:5) God considers Abraham to be our father. The God that Abraham believed in gives life to the dead. Abraham's God also speaks of things that do not exist as if they do exist." 
Romans4:18 When there was no reason for hope, Abraham believed because he had hope. He became the father of many nations, exactly as God had promised. God said, ""That is how many children you will have."",(Genesis 15:5)" 
Romans7:7 What should we say then? That the law is sin? Not at all! I wouldn't have known what sin was unless the law had told me. The law said, ""Do not want what belongs to other people."",(Exodus 20:17; Deuteronomy 5:21) If the law hadn't said that, I would not have known what it was like to want what belonged to others." 
Romans7:7 What should we say then? That the law is sin? Not at all! I wouldn't have known what sin was unless the law had told me. The law said, ""Do not want what belongs to other people."",(Exodus 20:17; Deuteronomy 5:21) If the law hadn't said that, I would not have known what it was like to want what belonged to others." 
Romans9:7 Not everyone in Abraham's family line is really his child. Not at all! Scripture says, ""Your family line will continue through Isaac."",(Genesis 21:12)" 
Romans9:9 God promised, ""I will return at the appointed time. Sarah will have a son."",(Genesis 18:10,14)" 
Romans9:12 It was not because of anything they did but because of God's choice. So Rebekah was told, ""The older son will serve the younger one."",(Genesis 25:23)" 
Romans9:13 It is written, ""I chose Jacob instead of Esau."",(Malachi 1:2,3)" 
Romans9:15 He said to Moses, ""I will have mercy on whom I have mercy. I will show love to those I love."" ,(Exodus 33:19)" 
Romans9:17 In Scripture, God says to Pharaoh, ""I had a special reason for making you king. I decided to use you to show my power. I wanted my name to become known everywhere on earth."",(Exodus 9:16)" 
Romans9:20 But you are a mere man. So who are you to talk back to God? Scripture says, ""Can what is made say to the one who made it, 'Why did you make me like this?' "",(Isaiah 29:16; 45:9)" 
Romans9:25 God says in Hosea, ""I will call those who are not my people 'my people.' I will call the one who is not my loved one 'my loved one.' "" ,(Hosea 2:23)" 
Romans9:26 He also says, ""Once it was said to them, 'You are not my people.' In that very place they will be called 'children of the living God.' "" ,(Hosea 1:10)" 
Romans9:27 Isaiah cries out concerning Israel. He says, ""The number of people from Israel may be like the sand by the sea. But only a few of them will be saved." 
Romans9:28 The Lord will carry out his sentence. He will be quick to carry it out on earth, once and for all."" ,(Isaiah 10:22,23)" 
Romans9:29 Earlier Isaiah had said, ""The Lord who rules over all left us children and grandchildren. If he hadn't, we would have become like Sodom. We would have been like Gomorrah."" ,(Isaiah 1:9)" 
Romans9:33 It is written, ""Look! In Zion I am laying a stone that causes people to trip. It is a rock that makes them fall. The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame."" ,(Isaiah 8:14; 28:16)" 
Romans10:5 Moses explained how the law could help a person do what God requires. He said, ""The one who does those things will live by them."",(Leviticus 18:5)" 
Romans10:6 But the way to do what God requires must begin by having faith in him. Scripture says, ""Do not say in your heart, 'Who will go up into heaven?' "",(Deuteronomy 30:12) That means to go up into heaven and bring Christ down." 
Romans10:7 And do not say, 'Who will go down into the grave?' "",(Deuteronomy 30:13) That means to bring Christ up from the dead." 
Romans10:8 But what does it say? The word is near you. It's in your mouth and in your heart.,(Deuteronomy 30:14) That means the word we are preaching. You must put your faith in it. 
Romans10:11 Scripture says, ""The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame."",(Isaiah 28:16)" 
Romans10:13 Scripture says, ""Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved."",(Joel 2:32)" 
Romans10:15 And how can anyone preach without being sent? It is written, ""How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news!"",(Isaiah 52:7)" 
Romans10:16 But not all the people of Israel accepted the good news. Isaiah says, ""Lord, who has believed our message?"",(Isaiah 53:1)" 
Romans10:19 Again I ask, ""Didn't Israel understand?"" First, Moses says, ""I will use people who are not a nation to make you jealous. I will use a nation that has no understanding to make you angry."" ,(Deuteronomy 32:21)" 
Romans10:20 Then Isaiah boldly speaks about what God says. God said, ""I was found by those who were not trying to find me. I made myself known to those who were not asking for me."" ,(Isaiah 65:1)" 
Romans10:21 But Isaiah also speaks about what God says concerning Israel. God said, ""All day long I have held out my hands. I have held them out to a stubborn people who do not obey me."" ,(Isaiah 65:2)" 
Romans11:8 It is written, ""God made it hard for them to understand. He gave them eyes that could not see. He gave them ears that could not hear. And they are still like that today."" ,(Deuteronomy 29:4; Isaiah 29:10)" 
Romans11:8 It is written, ""God made it hard for them to understand. He gave them eyes that could not see. He gave them ears that could not hear. And they are still like that today."" ,(Deuteronomy 29:4; Isaiah 29:10)" 
Romans11:27 Here is my covenant with them. I will take away their sins. ,(Isaiah 59:20,21; 27:9; Jeremiah 31:33,34)" 
Romans11:27 Here is my covenant with them. I will take away their sins. ,(Isaiah 59:20,21; 27:9; Jeremiah 31:33,34)" 
Romans11:34 Who can ever know what is in the Lord's mind? Or who can ever give him advice? ,(Isaiah 40:13) 
Romans11:35 Has anyone ever given anything to God, so that God has to pay him back?"" ,(Job 41:11)" 
Romans12:19 My friends, don't try to get even. Leave room for God to show his anger. It is written, ""I am the One who judges people. I will pay them back,"",(Deuteronomy 32:35) says the Lord." 
Romans12:20 Do just the opposite. Scripture says, ""If your enemies are hungry, give them food to eat. If they are thirsty, give them something to drink. By doing those things, you will pile up burning coals on their heads."" ,(Proverbs 25:21,22)" 
Romans13:9 Here are some commandments to think about. Do not commit adultery. Do not commit murder. Do not steal. Do not want what belongs to others.,(Exodus 20:13-15,17; Deuteronomy 5:17-19,21) These and other commandments are all included in one rule. Here's what it is. ""Love your neighbor as you love yourself."",(Leviticus 19:18)" 
Romans13:9 Here are some commandments to think about. Do not commit adultery. Do not commit murder. Do not steal. Do not want what belongs to others.,(Exodus 20:13-15,17; Deuteronomy 5:17-19,21) These and other commandments are all included in one rule. Here's what it is. ""Love your neighbor as you love yourself."",(Leviticus 19:18)" 
Romans13:9 Here are some commandments to think about. Do not commit adultery. Do not commit murder. Do not steal. Do not want what belongs to others.,(Exodus 20:13-15,17; Deuteronomy 5:17-19,21) These and other commandments are all included in one rule. Here's what it is. ""Love your neighbor as you love yourself."",(Leviticus 19:18)" 
Romans14:11 It is written, "" 'You can be sure that I live,' says the Lord. 'And you can be just as sure that every knee will bow down in front of me. Every tongue will tell the truth to God.' "" ,(Isaiah 45:23)" 
Romans15:10 Again it says, ""You non-Jews, be full of joy. Be joyful together with God's people."" ,(Deuteronomy 32:43)" 
Romans15:12 And Isaiah says, ""The Root of Jesse will grow up quickly. He will rule over the nations. Those who aren't Jews will put their hope in him."" ,(Isaiah 11:10)" 
Romans15:21 It is written, ""Those who were not told about him will understand. Those who have not heard will know what it all means."" ,(Isaiah 52:15)" 
1Corinthians1:19 It is written, ""I will destroy the wisdom of those who are wise. I will do away with the cleverness of those who think they are so smart."" ,(Isaiah 29:14)" 
1Corinthians1:31 It is written, ""The one who brags should brag about what the Lord has done."",(Jeremiah 9:24)" 
1Corinthians2:9 It is written, ""No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has known what God has prepared for those who love him."" ,(Isaiah 64:4)" 
1Corinthians2:16 Who can ever know what is in the Lord's mind? Can anyone ever teach him? ,(Isaiah 40:13) But we have the mind of Christ. 
1Corinthians3:19 The wisdom of this world is foolish in God's eyes. It is written, ""God catches wise people in their own tricks."",(Job 5:13)" 
1Corinthians5:13 God will judge those outside. Scripture says, ""Get rid of that evil person!"",(Deuteronomy 17:7; 19:19; 21:21; 22:21,24; 24:7)" 
1Corinthians6:16 Don't you know that when you join yourself to a prostitute, you become one with her in body? Scripture says, ""The two will become one."",(Genesis 2:24)" 
1Corinthians9:9 Here is what is written in the Law of Moses. Do not stop an ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw.,(Deuteronomy 25:4) Is it oxen that God is concerned about? 
1Corinthians10:7 So don't worship statues of gods, as some of them did. It is written, ""The people sat down to eat and drink. Then they got up to dance wildly in front of their god."",(Exodus 32:6)" 
1Corinthians14:21 In the Law it is written, ""Through people who speak unfamiliar languages and through the lips of strangers I will speak to these people. But even then they will not listen to me."" ,(Isaiah 28:11,12) That is what the Lord says." 
1Corinthians15:32 Did I fight wild animals in Ephesus for only human reasons? Then what have I gotten for it? If the dead are not raised, ""Let us eat and drink, because tomorrow we will die."" ,(Isaiah 22:13)" 
1Corinthians15:45 It is written, ""The first man Adam became a living person."",(Genesis 2:7) The last Adam became a spirit that gives life." 
1Corinthians15:54 In fact, that is going to happen. What does not last will be dressed with what lasts forever. What dies will be dressed with what does not die. Then what is written will come true. It says, ""Death has been swallowed up. It has lost the battle."",(Isaiah 25:8)" 
1Corinthians15:55 Death, where is the battle you thought you were winning? Death, where is your sting?"" ,(Hosea 13:14)" 
2Corinthians4:6 God said, ""Let light shine out of darkness."",(Genesis 1:3) He made his light shine in our hearts. It shows us the light of God's glory in the face of Christ." 
2Corinthians6:2 He says, ""When I showed you my favor, I heard you. On the day I saved you, I helped you."" ,(Isaiah 49:8) I tell you, now is the time God shows his favor. Now is the day he saves." 
2Corinthians6:16 How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree? We are the temple of the living God. God has said, ""I will live with them. I will walk among them. I will be their God. And they will be my people."",(Leviticus 26:12; Jeremiah 32:38; Ezekiel 37:27)" 
2Corinthians6:16 How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree? We are the temple of the living God. God has said, ""I will live with them. I will walk among them. I will be their God. And they will be my people."",(Leviticus 26:12; Jeremiah 32:38; Ezekiel 37:27)" 
2Corinthians6:16 How can the temple of the true God and the statues of other gods agree? We are the temple of the living God. God has said, ""I will live with them. I will walk among them. I will be their God. And they will be my people."",(Leviticus 26:12; Jeremiah 32:38; Ezekiel 37:27)" 
2Corinthians6:17 So come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch anything that is not pure and clean. Then I will receive you."" ,(Isaiah 52:11; Ezekiel 20:34,41)" 
2Corinthians6:17 So come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch anything that is not pure and clean. Then I will receive you."" ,(Isaiah 52:11; Ezekiel 20:34,41)" 
2Corinthians8:15 It is written, ""Those who gathered a lot didn't have too much. And those who gathered a little had enough."",(Exodus 16:18)" 
2Corinthians10:17 But, ""The one who brags should brag about what the Lord has done."",(Jeremiah 9:24)" 
2Corinthians13:1 This will be my third visit to you. Scripture says, ""Every matter must be proved by the words of two or three witnesses."",(Deuteronomy 19:15)" 
Galatians3:6 Think about Abraham. Scripture says, ""Abraham believed God. God accepted Abraham because he believed. So his faith made him right with God."",(Genesis 15:6)" 
Galatians3:8 Long ago, Scripture knew that God would make non-Jews right with himself by believing in him. He announced the good news ahead of time to Abraham. He said, ""All nations will be blessed because of you."",(Genesis 12:3; 18:18; 22:18)" 
Galatians3:10 All who depend on obeying the law are under a curse. It is written, ""May everyone who doesn't continue to do everything that is written in the Book of the Law be under God's curse."",(Deuteronomy 27:26)" 
Galatians3:11 We know that no one is made right with God by keeping the law. Scripture says, ""Those who are right with God will live by faith."",(Habakkuk 2:4)" 
Galatians3:12 The law is not based on faith. In fact, it is just the opposite. It teaches that ""the one who does those things will live by them."",(Leviticus 18:5)" 
Galatians3:13 Christ set us free from the curse of the law. He did it by becoming a curse for us. It is written, ""Everyone who is hung on a pole is under God's curse."",(Deuteronomy 21:23)" 
Galatians3:16 The promises were given to Abraham. They were also given to his seed. Scripture does not say, ""and to seeds."" That means many people. It says, ""and to your seed."",(Genesis 12:7; 13:15; 24:7) That means one person. And that one person is Christ." 
Galatians4:27 It is written, ""Be glad, woman, you who have no children. Start shouting, you who have no labor pains. The woman who is all alone has more children than the woman who has a husband."" ,(Isaiah 54:1)" 
Galatians4:30 But what does Scripture say? Get rid of the slave woman. Get rid of her son. The slave woman's son will never have a share of the family's property with the free woman's son.,(Genesis 21:10) 
Galatians5:14 The whole law can be found in a single command. Love your neighbor as you love yourself.,(Leviticus 19:18) 
Ephesians5:31 Scripture says, ""That's why a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife. The two will become one."",(Genesis 2:24)" 
Ephesians6:3 Then things will go well with you. You will live a long time on the earth.,(Deuteronomy 5:16) 
1Timothy5:18 Scripture says, ""Do not stop the ox from eating while it helps separate the grain from the straw."",(Deuteronomy 25:4) Scripture also says, ""Workers are worthy of their pay."",(Luke 10:7)" 
2Timothy2:19 But God's solid foundation stands firm. Here is the message written on it. The Lord knows who his own people are.,(Numbers 16:5) Also, ""All who say they believe in the Lord must turn away from evil.""" 
Hebrews1:6 God's first and only Son is over all things. When God brings him into the world, he says, ""Let all of God's angels worship him."" ,(Deuteronomy 32:43)" 
Hebrews2:13 Again he says, ""I will put my trust in him."" ,(Isaiah 8:17) And again he says, ""Here I am. Here are the children God has given me."" ,(Isaiah 8:18)" 
Hebrews4:4 Somewhere he spoke about the seventh day. He said, ""On the seventh day God rested from all his work."",(Genesis 2:2)" 
Hebrews4:8 Suppose Joshua had given them rest. If he had, God would not have spoken later about another day." 
Hebrews6:14 He said, ""I will certainly bless you. I will give you many children."",(Genesis 22:17)" 
Hebrews8:5 They serve at a sacred tent. But it is only a copy and shadow of what is in heaven. That's why God warned Moses when he was about to build the holy tent. God said, ""Be sure to make everything just like the pattern I showed you on the mountain."",(Exodus 25:40)" 
Hebrews8:12 I will forgive their evil ways. I will not remember their sins anymore. ,(Jeremiah 31:31-34) 
Hebrews9:20 He said, ""This is the blood of the covenant God has commanded you to keep."",(Exodus 24:8)" 
Hebrews10:16 This is the covenant I will make with them after that time, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their hearts. I will write my laws on their minds."" ,(Jeremiah 31:33)" 
Hebrews10:17 Then he adds, ""I will not remember their sins anymore. I will not remember the evil things they have done."" ,(Jeremiah 31:34)" 
Hebrews10:30 We know the One who said, ""I am the One who judges people. I will pay them back."",(Deuteronomy 32:35) Scripture also says, ""The Lord will judge his people."",(Deuteronomy 32:36; Psalm 135:14)" 
Hebrews10:38 The one who is in the right will live by faith. If he pulls back, I will not be pleased with him."" ,(Habakkuk 2:3,4)" 
Hebrews11:18 God had said to him, ""Your family line will continue through Isaac."",(Genesis 21:12) Even so, Abraham was going to offer him up." 
Hebrews12:6 The Lord trains those he loves. He punishes everyone he accepts as a son. ,(Proverbs 3:11,12)" 
Hebrews12:13 Make level paths for your feet to walk on.,(Proverbs 4:26) Then those who have trouble walking won't be disabled. Instead, they will be healed." 
Hebrews12:20 What God commanded was too much for them. He said, ""If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be killed with stones."",(Exodus 19:12,13)" 
Hebrews12:21 The sight was terrifying. Moses said, ""I am trembling with fear."",(Deuteronomy 9:19)" 
Hebrews12:26 At that time his voice shook the earth. But now he has promised, ""Once more I will shake the earth. I will also shake the heavens."",(Haggai 2:6)" 
Hebrews12:29 Our God is like a fire that burns everything up.,(Deuteronomy 4:24) 
Hebrews13:5 Don't be controlled by love for money. Be happy with what you have. God has said, ""I will never leave you. I will never desert you."" ,(Deuteronomy 31:6)" 
James2:8 The royal law is found in Scripture. It says, ""Love your neighbor as you love yourself."",(Leviticus 19:18) If you really keep that law, you are doing what is right." 
James2:11 God said, ""Do not commit adultery."",(Exodus 20:14; Deuteronomy 5:18) He also said, ""Do not commit murder."",(Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17) Suppose you don't commit adultery but do commit murder. Then you have broken the Law." 
James2:11 God said, ""Do not commit adultery."",(Exodus 20:14; Deuteronomy 5:18) He also said, ""Do not commit murder."",(Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17) Suppose you don't commit adultery but do commit murder. Then you have broken the Law." 
James2:23 That is what Scripture means where it says, ""Abraham believed God. God accepted Abraham because he believed. So his faith made him right with God."",(Genesis 15:6) And that's not all. God called Abraham his friend." 
James4:6 God continues to give us more grace. That's why Scripture says, ""God opposes those who are proud. But he gives grace to those who are not."" ,(Proverbs 3:34)" 
James5:11 As you know, we think that people who don't give up are blessed. You have heard that Job was patient. And you have seen what the Lord finally did for him. The Lord is full of tender mercy and loving concern." 
1Peter1:16 It is written, ""Be holy, because I am holy."",(Leviticus 11:44,45; 19:2)" 
1Peter1:25 But the word of the Lord stands forever. ,(Isaiah 40:6-8) And that word was preached to you. 
1Peter2:6 In Scripture it says, ""Look! I am placing a stone in Zion. It is a chosen and very valuable stone. It is the most important stone in the building. The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame."" ,(Isaiah 28:16)" 
1Peter2:8 And, ""It is a stone that causes people to trip. It is a rock that makes them fall."" ,(Isaiah 8:14) They trip and fall because they do not obey the message. That is also what God planned for them." 
1Peter2:22 Scripture says, ""He didn't commit any sin. No lies ever came out of his mouth."" ,(Isaiah 53:9)" 
1Peter3:14 But suppose you suffer for doing what is right. Then you will be blessed. Scripture also says, ""Don't fear what others fear. Don't be afraid."",(Isaiah 8:12)" 
1Peter4:18 Scripture says, ""Suppose it is hard for godly people to be saved. Then what will happen to ungodly people and sinners?"" ,(Proverbs 11:31)" 
1Peter5:5 Young men, follow the lead of those who are older. All of you, put on a spirit that is free of pride toward each other as if it were your clothes. Scripture says, ""God opposes those who are proud. But he gives grace to those who are not."" ,(Proverbs 3:34)" 
2Peter2:22 What the proverbs say about them is true. A dog returns to where it has thrown up.,(Proverbs 26:11) And, ""A pig that is washed goes back to rolling in the mud.""" 
Revelation1:13 In the middle of them was someone who looked like a son of man.,(Daniel 7:13) He was dressed in a long robe with a gold strip of cloth around his chest. 
Revelation14:14 I looked, and there in front of me was a white cloud. Sitting on the cloud was One who looked ""like a son of man."",(Daniel 7:13) He wore a gold crown on his head. In his hand was a sharp, curved blade for cutting grain." 
